[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: World Parliament of]
There are surely some points on which we can all agree. All good WORLD PARLIAMENT OF WOMEN thoughts and all good aspirations must come from the divinity which we worship in different names and different ways. She desired, she said, to send out a trumpet call to those who have faith that there is a God to whom we can appeal, and to say, "Let us appeal to Him and pray for His help and blessing." She felt that it is only in the spiritual word that we can hope once again to bring peace and good will to the world.
Among other subjects of vital importance which were discussed in detail in the committees and considered in condensed form in the main meetings were health and nutrition which took second place only to peace, child welfare, housing, education, equal moral standards, broadcasting, cinema. THE testimonial meeting to Lady Aberdeen which was one of the features of the convention was both touching and thrilling. At her advanced age, clothed in white, she received gracefully and appreciatively the plaudits of her fellow-workers whose footsteps she had guided so satisfactorly for thirty-six years.
Tributes were paid to her by her fellow-officers, some of them of many years standing, by representatives of all of the national councils and by fraternal delegates.
Because of her long and notable presidency, the speakers paid tribute to the council through her. It was brought out that while honoring Lady Aberdeen they were also honoring the memory of those noble women who originated the council fifty years ago. As they came to the platform they showered her with gifts, until the large table was heaped high with them.
There were embroidered table linens from Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Latvia; statuary from Italy; lovely glass pieces, scarfs, 579 books and a red poncho or serape made by the Indians of Argentina. Dame Ogilvie Gordon, First VicePresident of the Council, announced the raising of the Jubilee Fund to be known as the Lady Aberdeen Fund, and to be used for the work of the Council. The fund, amounting to 3,000
Pounds or $15,000, was received by Lady Aberdeen in behalf of the Council. THE social features of the conference included excursions, unique entertainments, receptions, and private parties. The most important were the civic reception by the Lord Provost, the royal garden party and the farewell banquet. The weather was ideal for the official garden party, given on the broad lawns at Holyrood Palace by "gracious permission of His Majesty the King, to meet Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent." The guests, 2,000 in number, were received by the Secretary of State of Scotland on behalf of the Government and later they were formed in their various national groups to await the appearance of the beautiful and charming Duchess of Kent, who had come from London for the occasion. The Duchess wore a gown of heavy mauve georgette and a crinoline straw hat of the same color trimmed with three ostrich feathers in varying shades curled over the tilted brim. She was attended by a body guard of the High Constables of the Palace in blue uniforms and tall, black cockaded hats. As she moved across the spacious lawn the leader of each delegation was presented to her.
Delicious refreshments were served to the guests from gaily colored, attractive marquees, after which they had the privilege of inspecting the historic rooms of the palace under the direction of official guides. 580 On the green sloping hillside back of the palace were grouped hundreds of people who had a full view of everything within the grounds and who formed an attractive picture which was in full view of the palace guests. The whole scene was most colorful and interesting. One of the outstanding values of an international conference, probably one of the most valuable aspects, lies in the contacts that one makes with women of other lands, women of other and different experiences, but with whom after all is shared a fundamental common purpose. T the election of officers Baroness Boel was again elected president. Dame Maria Ogilvie Gordon who for years has been the first vice president and who has been either a convener or officer in the council for thirty-four years was elected an honorary vice president. Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg, another veteran, was made an honorary vice president.
American women reelected were Lena Madesin Phillips, eighth vice president; Helen Havenor, vice convener of the Cinema committee; Dr. Louise Ball, viceconvener of Press.
Members of our Latter-day Saint groups will be pleased to know more of Baroness Boel. She is first of all a devoted mother and grandmother— mother of four children and grandmother of ten. She is a woman of rare native ability and outstanding attainments. She is large in stature, being six feet tall, powerful of intellect and tender and understanding of heart. She speaks all three of the official languages of the Council —English, French and German. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is president of the National Council of Women of Belgium, and wife of the vice president of the Belgian Parliament.
During the war she performed a very distinct though dangerous service to her country. In 1915 it came to her knowledge that a great wrong was being done the people of her country through the stoppage of all means of communication between those who remained in Belgium and those who were scattered behind the German lines.
Naturally this was not her personal affair and she had her children to think of. She risked not only her freedom, but her life when she set out to organize a secret post by which she might send letters of her people out through the enemy lines, and receive others back safely. She made herself responsible for the scheme, directing it entirely alone, and daring alone the consequences.
