[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Aunt Heartha]
aniums with Aunt Heartha coaxing them into bud and bloom. Hap, meanwhile, was thinking only of Christy. His Christy!

She glanced up at him with an ingratiating smile. "I had no idea you had so thoroughly remodeled," said she.

Hap opened an adjoining door. "This room is rather small," said he, "but will be convenient for an occasional guest." Christy's face was radiant and sunny as she stepped inside the cozy little sanctum. Inaudibly her heart exclaimed, "Heartha's own little room!"

Closing the door, Hap remarked, "This is an old-fashioned stairway with worn steps, Christy, but none of them creak." Hap grasped her outstretched hand and slowly led her up the narrow passage. With the opening of the loft door came a blue-bending arch of sky.

"A roof garden!" exclaimed Christy. "Whoever would have dreamed of such a luxury!" Turning to Hap she whispered, "Dearest, you did this all for me!" He smiled a slow, meditative smile and gave answer:

"To tell you fact, Christy, I've stayed awake nights thinking this out—a place for you to steal away by yourself to sketch the summer landscape. Here you'll be at liberty to apply yourself to your beloved art unmolested."

Christy's eyes were resting on the fields of snow, and beyond the willow-lined creek and little groups of young oak trees. She seemed dumb with happiness and surprise.

"In early spring," continued Hap, "when the green begins to creep back into the trees and the spaces between show the bonny blue sky"—

A LOUD, clamorous knock at the front door called them below at once.

A hearty old Scotchman stood on the front porch. He was smiting his mittened hands together and stamping the snow from his overshoes. His cheeks were ruddy and his breath came like white vapor.

"It means me the breadth's come alive this mornin'—smoke curlin' from the chimney. Are you young folk movin' in?"

"Not today. Won't you take this rocker, Uncle Alec?"

"Don't want to sit down. I'd rather go below and have a good long look at your stoker. I might watch it half an hour, if you don't mind."

"Go right ahead, Uncle Alec," said Hap as he turned good-naturedly back to his conversation with Christy.

"Maybe you'll want a fireplace in this room. Sort of friendly, wouldn't it be, having a fireplace?"

Christy could see dear old Heartha in the glow of a cheery yule log and her heart exulted at the picture. Deftly she hid it from Hap, who suddenly burst out: "Your presence here seems to brighten the very air, Christy and just think, this home is ours alone—yours and mine. Sometimes it seems as if this whole, big world holds but you and me."

Christy who ordinarily would have responded to these warm, glowing words, seemed actually to shiver. Hap perceived it.

"You aren't cold dear: What's the matter?" he asked with a penetrating look as if trying to probe her inner conscience.

"I've changed my mind, Hap. That's all. This house isn't for me."

Hap drew his lips into a thin, straight line. "What's wrong with you, Christy?"

Her voice lowered to a whisper. "I can't go on."

Hap eyed her closely. Her face looked drained and bleak—utterly colorless—but there was burning pain in her eyes. Never before had he seen Christy like this—his clear-eyed, trusty pal—the one girl in all the world who had no skill in evasion or lies.

"Is it something I've done, Christy?"

"No." In spite of her outward calm, Christy's throat cramped and her voice was near suffocation. "I can't marry you, Hap. That's all."

Hap's face looked haggard. He cleared his throat roughly. It seemed to him in this emotional crisis that Christy wasn't Christy at all. Another girl stood in her place before him. And this girl was unfeeling, hardened, acutely cruel! Worst of all, there was nothing he could do about it. The silent rage that seized him was gruelling to his nerves.

"I'll take the interurban car back to Cedarville," announced Christy.

MECHANICALLY the two of them made their way back to the little blue roadster by the gate. With chill hands, Hap clutched the wheel and they were off.

At the depot Christy forced back unshed tears and nodded goodbye. Hap replied with a fixed, unseeing stare and a frigid bow.

The train pulled out of Riverbend with its customary stutter of start and stop. Soon it gained its usual rhythm. Hap stood watching until it had disappeared behind "Queen's Bluff"—a cliff of colored stone near the turn of the track.

"Queen's Bluff," he ejaculated ironically as he leaped into his car and banged the door. His reckless driving might have cost him a heavy fine had there been a rush of traffic.

Upon entering the door he stumbled over Christy's valise filled with art material. This gave him pause. He reached down and unlocked it. There was every needful tool and brush in perfect order and readiness for a day of sketching.

"She even denied herself that special treat," said Hap aloud. He felt certain that their suffering at parting had been mutual. He sat down and examined the contents of her art-folio. There he found sketches on various themes—a face, a bust, a tree, a distant hill, even a placard bearing a printed quotation, "When half-gods go, the gods arrive."

SOME one was stirring in the basement tinkering with the stoker. Hap listened to big footsteps, and presently Uncle Alec stalked into the room. Uncle Alec could see trouble on Hap's brow and blurted out, "It couldn't by any chance have been a lover's quarrel between you and Christy?"

"We've never quarreled in our lives and we've been seeing each other more than three years," explained Hap.

"Then how come she's gone?"

"As to the reason, Uncle Alec, I'm safe in saying you know as much about it as I do."

Uncle Alec sniffed in a droll, bewildered way as if he might accidentally scent the hidden clue.

"Is it something you might have done, Hap, or is it something you've failed to do?"

"I didn't ask. Is there anything I've left undone, Uncle Alec?"

Uncle Alec pondered, cleared his throat as if to speak, then remained silent.

"Out with it! Come on!" urged Hap.
