[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Old Shawls from]
Old Shawls From India—Cashmere By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. Of U. THE custom of wearing shawls is ages old and extends around the globe, from Asia to Europe, from Europe to America. The word "shawl" is derived from the Hindoo and Persian word "shal".
Large and small shawls of delicate lace or heavy silk, of fine wool weave or cotton print have been worn about the head, hung from the shoulders, or draped around the body like a garment.
Traveling the cycle of fashion, the shawl has intermittently appeared and reappeared in some countries as a favorite article of woman's dress, while elsewhere it has always been regarded as an indispensable part of the costume.
Sixty years ago beautiful shawls were worn by all women of fashion in Europe and America.; Out of the Orient came the shawls of India, Persia and Turkey. From India came the finest, and of these the shawl from the Vale of Kashmir was ever the most beautiful.
Poets have referred to this place as the home of the rose, the tulip, the lotus and the nightingale. Are famous all over the world for their knowledge of coloring and their mastery of design.
There it was centuries ago that Kashmir (Anglicized Cashmere) shawls were made.
Today they are almost priceless because shawl weaving as an important industry has all but died out in that land. HE marvelously fine curly wool called pashm or pashmina, from which the best shawls were made, is an undercoat of peIts people > culiar delicacy that grows on the goats of Tibet to protect them from the cold and damp climate. In the spring the long hair was sheared and the pashmina removed by the aid of a rude comb, the shearing being done from the head towards the tail, and the combing in the reverse direction. It required the wool from several goats to produce sufficient yarn for one shawl, because the full grown animal yielded only about half a pound. The pashmina was packed into small bales of about thirty pounds and fastened to the backs of long-legged sheep which picked their dangerous way down over the winding, snowy passes of the Himalayas into the valley of Kashmir. The precious bundles of shawl-wool were cleaned with rice powder or a warm solution of potash, bleached, carded, and then spun into yarn on the common churka or crude spinning-wheel by Indian women who often worked from dawn to midnight, sometimes by moonlight when her poverty denied her the use of even a cheap oil-lamp. Occasionally, groups of women and girls could be seen spinning and singing together far into the night. At one time there were 100,000 of these spinners in Kashmir. The fine wool was generally spun into lengths of seven hundred yards, later was doubled and twisted by a reeler, and cut into lengths of about 3¼ yards, the usual length of a shawl warp. The spinners sold the yarn to a puimangu, or a yarn merchant who, in turn, sold it at a small profit to the weaver.
Yarn was
OLD SHAWLS FROM INDIA—CASHMERE
not exported as there was a heavy revenue on finished shawls, which was practically controlled by the Maharaja, who derived an excessive income from the shawl industry. The weaver took the yarn and his pattern to another person, who separated it into piles according to the colors indicated by the pattern. The design had been drawn in black and white and the colors merely indicated as a guide to the weaver and dyer. The weaver then took the yarn to the dyer or dyers, as each family specialized generally in one color. Dyeing in the Orient has been for ages an hereditary occupation, the
