[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: The Children's Reading]

The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. IX—THE GREAT COMPANIONS SPEAK
"Could we give one gift to every child,
We should choose the love of books."
—William Frederick Bigelow.*
I REMEMBER once riding for days over almost endless stretches of prairie, and looking anxiously across the space to the far horizon for the appearance of some human being who would give a sense of security to fill the place of that aloneness which takes possession of one in the great out-of-doors. With the appearance of an occasional car, from whose driver we received the assurance that we were traveling in the right direction, we felt that we had met a friend, and fear vanished in the knowledge that though the distance might be long, we would eventually reach the place we were seeking.
When I became the possessor of a progeny of three growing children, and was learning that no sooner was one problem in some manner solved than another loomed like a mountain before me, I felt the same awe that I had experienced in looking out across that desert space—the fear that we might be on the wrong road. Then it was that I felt with Julia Ward Howe that it is a "delightful but terrible thing to be a mother." I had not yet become adjusted to the fact that with the passing of each stage my children would die and had not yet learned that the "mother of boys and girls must die, too, if the mother of men and women is to be born."
As my family approached adolescence I stood in Chicago before two paintings which depicted the change in the American family in the last one hundred years. "In the first, a young lover is alighting from a carriage to call upon his fiancée. He starts across a velvety sweep of lawn shaded by magnificent elm trees. Beyond rises in dignity a massive brick mansion. With gallant yet humble decorum he advances to speak to those who have come out to greet him—the modest and fluffily dainty young woman, her mother and father of gracious but stately bearing, and the keen-eyed grandmother, zealous guardian of the name and traditions of the family.
"In the modern scene, a very young fellow, incessantly active, starts the honk of his Ford horn echoing insistently down the solidly paved canyon of a street above which rises a massive apartment house. He cranes his neck up toward an open window on the third floor out of which leans a girl smoking a cigarette. Her expression seems to indicate that she 'knows all the answers' already. She gesticulates her answer to him. There need be never a thought of a moment's delay for bidding adieu to her elders, because her parents are already gone to their country club and her stranger-grandmother is keeping a late appointment for a facial and permanent in preparation for tomorrow's
THE CHILDREN'S READING
departure on the next lap of her perpetual and restless gadding about."*
TO fortify my family against such shallow rootage I appealed to my God of philosophy. He answered my plea with a quotation from the immortal Goethe, "He who is plenteously provided for from within needs little from without." And so I retreated to my world of books—"noble-minded books, books that lead to contemplation, books that reveal the charm and joy of life." In them I have met helpful companions, often more potent than those we meet in life—the kind of companions who fill me with new hope and energy, make me face more bravely the perplexities of life. I found enshrined in this world of literature great companions who furnish the solution to numberless problems in a time when the family as a social institution seems to be threatened by the noise and bluster and sophistication of the age.
From one Great Companion, Samuel Butler, I learned that fathers and mothers are to be honored, not because of their accidental parentage, but only because they are honorable. I must, then, make myself honorable. Florence Nightingale reminds me that it is so important for a woman to be a person. I must, then, develop opinions of my own. From the Great Companions of moral education I learn that most of the problems of today are not problems at all but symptoms which must be studied and the remedy applied line upon line, precept upon precept until the troublesome thing is eradicated.
*From The Modern Family and the Church by Margaret Westcott Wieman. Harper Brothers.
When gritty irritation hangs in the family atmosphere I learn that an essay or a story from one of the Great Companions has the same effect as pouring oil on troubled waters. If my young son casts admiring glances at a frivolous, giggling, young damsel, I seek consolation in the philosophy of George Eliot when she said that many a man who in youth would have been satisfied with nothing less than a Venus or a Psyche has settled down in middle life with a woman who waddled. If the boy of my daughter's choice does not please me, I may quote William Penn, "Never marry but for love, but see thou lovest what is lovely." When spending seems to be their greatest fault, I preach with Benjamin Franklin, "A penny saved is a penny earned."
The tragedies of youth are as real as the tragedy of old age. When the Slough of Despond threatens to engulf them as it did Christian of Pilgrim's Progress fame, I quote, "Life is a lovely thing when our hopes are high, but the secret is to know it lovely and loveworthy when we have no hopes at all." And if preaching becomes a bore, I relieve the situation by quoting Mark Twain, "It is noble to be good. It is nobler to tell others how to be good—and is so much easier."
There has always been and will continue to be as long as the world lasts, a group of men and women more distinguished than others. They are those who have made use of nature's gifts to them. Many of them belong to the Great Companions and after an hour with them, I return to my practical world and my family singing, "If I could give one gift to every child, it would be a love of books."
Conclusion of Series