[Vol31 | August 1944 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Story Telling Testament]

Literature New Testament Lesson 2?Story Telling in the New Testament For Tuesday, November 21, 1944 MANY of the events recorded in the New Testament exemplify rare art in story telling. With simple sincerity, with fervor, yet fine restraint, with flowing musical sentences, dramatic incidents in the life of the Savior and His Apostles are portrayed. Added to this, the stories make great truths live. Our best way to feel the force of these statements is to read and reread them, both for spiritual uplift and for appreciation of their artistry. To stimulate and direct this study, selections from the various Gospels of the King James translation are presented in this lesson. For easier reading in line with the central purpose of this course, the stories are arranged in literary form. Let each of them be read silently and aloud. Then study them in light of suggestions that follow. THE ANGEL AND THE SHEPHERDS (Luke 2:8-14) And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night: And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
LESSON DEPARTMENT And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace, Good will toward men. An outstanding characteristic of this story is its lyric qualities. Voiced appreciatively, its sentences sing. They are rhythmic. Various expressions in it also bring beautiful pictures: "shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night"; "the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger." In the lines, too, are dramatic touches: the fear and the consolation; the announcement of our Savior's birth; the chorus of angels, singing peace and good will. It is small wonder that this story has been an inspiration through the ages for musicians, painters and poets, as well as for evangelists. TEMPTATION OF JESUS (Matthew 4:1-11) Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil: And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. 473
Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him. This story is dramatic in its rising effect. Observe how. Matthew, with terse, thought-laden sentences, portrays the event. Step by step it moves in climax to its splendid close. Skillfully recorded conversation drives home living truths. THE RICH YOUNG MAN (Mark 10:17-23) And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is, God. Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother. And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth. Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me. 474
And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions. And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God. Note again the thought-filled sentences, the dramatic strength, yet simplicity, with which Mark, like Matthew, presents this little drama out of real life. CHRIST BEFORE PILATE (John 18:29 ff.) Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to dent... Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for  this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all. Observe with what restraint this stirring incident is portrayed. With simple directness, with no useless description, we are given the story. Yet how surcharged with controlled emotion, how vital is the scene; and how filled with spiritual meaning the words of the Master as He replies to the questions of the Roman ruler. It is drama of highest art. MARY MAGDALENE AND THE SAVIOR (John 20:10-17) Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre. And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus saith unto her, Mary.
LESSON DEPARTMENT She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God. Again, note the artistry, the delicate touches with which this story is portrayed. Its depth of feeling is brought forth, not with ornate language but with expressions of vibrant simplicity. Every hue in this beautiful little drama of our risen Lord touches the heart strings, and uplifts the responsive soul. Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1. (a) What are some of the main characteristics of the New Testament stories? Name two or more and illustrate. (b) What is implied by the expression, "fine restraint in story telling'? 2. (a) Have the more complete story of "The Angels and the Shepherds" (Luke 475 2:8-20) read by a class member. (b) Point out words or expressions in the story that are especially musical. 3. (a) Three basic elements in a well told story or drama are its plot, its distinctive characters, its conversation. Point out these characteristics in the '""Temptation of Jesus"; in "Christ Before Pilate'; and in the other New Testament stories given here. (b) Let one or more of these stories be presented by members of the class assigned the parts. 4. Point out three or more life-giving or picturesque words or expressions in any of the given stories; as, "sore afraid'; "good tidings." Give some brief quotation from any of the given stories that impresses a basic lesson or truth; as, "Man shall not live by bread alone." 6. Select from any of the Gospels another story that exemplifies qualities of story telling discussed in this lesson. Following are suggestions as to some such stories: "Jesus Stills the Waves" (Matthew 14:23-32)3
Jesus Restores the Sight of Bartimaeus" (Mark 10:46-52); "Jesus in Gethsemane" (Luke 22:39-53)3