VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1886.	NO. 18.


[Column 1]
	ADDRESSED TO A FRIEND OF MY
				YOUTH.

Once more, dearest friend, I sit down to address you,
And, it being your birthday, desire to bless you;
Such, for years I've attempted in writing to you—
Alas! I'm so distant, 'tis all I can do;
Yes, years, many years have rolled steadily on
Since first I sang to you a natal-day song:
In them my whole heart has been bared before thee,
And they tell—yes, in each—I've presented the key!
If you have not unlocked and explored them, why then,
You've missed it, my friend, for on earth ne'er again
Shall I ever unfold in so great a degree
The soul which my Father—God—gave unto me!
And why I made you the receptacle—you, dear—
I should need a bright angel to make it all clear;
Yes, e'en to myself—I myself need a key
To clear the grand mystery—even to me!
But in grand or minute it is ever my way
To acknowledge the hand of the Lord, and His sway,
For if even the fall of a sparrow's recorded,
Those who bear His own image are lovingly hoarded,
And what we note as trifles, His judgment so wise
May behold as a germ, that He cannot despise;
He has made each an agent to map out the life
From out the material so rich and so rife,
By which we're surrounded, and given a mind,
A heart and a brain, that by these we may find
Out the good that is for us—'tis something to know
What will make for us happiness, make for us woe,
And make for us joy and will make for us love;
Such knowledge will lift us all trifles above,
And if we as infants repose in His hands,
Obeying His laws and His loving commands,
He will turn, yes, and overturn all in our favor,
And even to bitters will give a sweet savor,
And give us a power, an angelic art,
That we, as diplomatists, act well the part
That makes life a rich and a heavenly boon,
That none will desire to end very soon!

It's not in me to boast, or desire to seem
A something I am not, or ever have been;
I just want to assure you my Father has given
Me knowledge and tact, just to make my own heaven,
And should you ask why He has favored me so,
Bestowing the happiness, soft'ning the woe?
'Tis by prayer—yes, the voice of my soul has been prayer,
Entreating His guidance, imploring His care.
As "clay in the hands of the potter"—so I
In the hands of my God have desired to lie!
Such is but a synopsis, a brief sketch indeed
Of how I've obtained, where I wished to succeed,
Did love of some beings, I felt, if possessed,
Would add to my happiness, make me more blest,
I at once set to work, as the spirit dictated,
To draw to myself all that seemed to me mated;
Yes, mated, which is, that their souls seemed to be
United to mine by a sweet unity,
Magnetic, and charming, encircling my soul,
By casting around me a healthful control;
In such way my spirit did magnetize thine,
Or was it your spirit that magnetized mine?
See! here is a problem, and who shall resolve it,
And a question still greater is, who can dissolve it?
'Tis strong as the mountains and firm as the hills,
'Tis sparkling and pure as our own mountain rills,
Nought of earth intermingles—'tis spirit indeed,
And blended with distance, from trammels is freed;
We think, speak and write with the freedom of heaven,
Which smiles and sees nothing that need be forgiven;
'Tis a compact that's not often found upon earth,
It had from the brightest of feelings its birth;
It has had a sweet life—do you ask when 'twill die?
When we in the tomb shall all peacefully lie!
And the spirit released shall then joyfully soar
To the mansions of bliss, that it dwelt in of yore,
With our Father and God, and with Jesus, His Son,
Our own elder brother, ere earth-life begun;

[Column 2]
On earth, our Redeemer, our Savior and Friend,
There united united in brotherhood, never to end!
The redeemed of all nations, there gathered in one,
Our warfare all ended, our heaven begun!

Amid all this bliss—this ecstatic bliss—
Will the spirits, all ransom'd, not look back to this—
For a moment look back to the loved ones still here,
Remembering the all that on earth it held dear?
The love and the friendship that brighten'd its way;
And feel it must gather up all that it may,
Even all that here nurtured the heart and the brain
From that spirit can never be parted again,
All such is immortal, all that was so on earth
Is transplanted again to a heavenly birth;
All, all we enjoy here of heavenly life
We shall surely transmit where all beauty is rife,
And soul linked to soul by congenial ties
On this earth, shall meet and unite in the skies;
There's a spirit that whispers and tells unto me
In the realms of the blessed—yes, so it will be,
The beings that helped to make earth unto me
A palpable paradise, surely shall be
In the same planet-world where my spirit will rest,
Unitedly there will our spirits be blest!

I need not go on—perhaps enough has been said,
And you'll draw the inference when you have read;
The best feelings that dwell in the heart of a friend
Are those which I now in all faithfulness send,
By the aid of my paper, and also my pen,
And this day many years may you witness again.
Preserve, above all things, the blessing of health—
To those who possess it, 'tis coffers of wealth;
May you attain all I desire for thee,
Then happy, contented and blest you will be;
Your old and true friend writes the song I now sing,
Accept it in love, from yours—HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
		NO MIDDLE COURSE.

	The events of the past several months, taken
with many others in the history of the human
race, should teach the Latter-day Saints, such
as have not learned the lesson already, that
there is no safe middle course between right
and wrong. The disastrous failures of those
who have sought, in the present crisis, to
make a bridge of their souls over a chasm too
broad to be covered, except by a rupture and
dismemberment of principle, should give pause
to all who may contemplate emulating their
unsuccessful examples.
	These failures, much as the causes leading to
them are to be deplored, should occasion no
surprise. They serve only to emphasize a
truth and newly illustrate a principle as old
as time and as immutable as the Rock of Ages.
What is there in the Gospel, the great crite-
rion of truth, which teaches a man that he
can serve simultaneously two masters; that he
can be for God and against Him at the same
time; that he can make peace with the evil one
and accede to terms, however speciously worded,
that will satisfy and call forth the plaudits of
his minions, and still remain the friend of God
and an uncompromising foe of unrighteousness?
	Strange, indeed, that some calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints—God grant that their
numbers are few!—with the teachings of the
past before their eyes, and the Holy Spirit
presumably in their hearts, can not see a pro-
position so plain as the one declaring that all
who are not for the Lord are against Him; or
seeing it, cannot convince themselves that God,
in saying this, meant exactly what He said, and
that anything more or less cometh of evil. The
trained equestrian knows that he cannot suc-
cessfully ride at the same time two horses

[Column 2]
moving in opposite directions. But, if he
attempted it, the result would be no more dis-
astrous in a physical way, than morally for a
Latter-day Saint to try to plant himself square-
ly upon both sides of a question involving
honor and obedience to a law of God and a 
law of man directly opposed to it, enacted for
the sole purpose of its destruction.
	It is idle to argue the wisdom or righteous
policy of such a course. When oil and water
can mix, without one or both of them losing
their original properties, it will be time enough
to talk about a "Mormon" being a non-"Mor-
mon" even in part; but not before. Good
and evil, heaven and hell, are not synonymous
terms, neither is it possible to be altogether
right and only a little in the wrong at the
same time. In one sense the chasm between
the two is so broad that no bridge can span it;
in another, the division line is a hair so fine
that to step over it from the right but one
inch, is to be just one inch in the wrong.
	What of Daniel the Prophet, when forbid-
den by a law almost as cruel as the Edmunds
law, to pray to the God of his salvation?
Could he have "come within the law" and
still have continued to supplicate Jehovah?
	Could the Hebrew children have obeyed the
tyrannical edict of Nebuchadnezzar and
bowed themselves down before the golden
image which he had set up, and still preserved
themselves free in the sight of heaven from
idolatry?
	Could our blessed Redeemer, the Godlike
hero of Gethsemane and Calvary, because of
the ignominious fate before Him and the ex-
ceeding sorrow of His refined and sensitive
soul in contemplating it—could He have
receded with honor from His position, recanted
what He had spoken by the power of the Holy
Ghost, and, to save His life, made an agreement
with Pilate and the Jews that He would no
longer proclaim Himself the Son of God, or
teach the pure principles, despised though
they were by the world, which He came to
preach, practice and lay down His life for?
	Could the prophets, the reformers, the pa-
triots—those who spilt their blood like water
rather than relinquish one jot or tittle of their
sacred convictions, have given way at the
dicta of tyrants and bigots, and still kept
their honor and integrity inviolate? And if
they had given way, would we now enjoy the
blessings which their valor bequeathed, and
would their names have come down to us
haloed with a glory which time cannot dim or
the breath of calumny extinguish?
	I have in mind the example of one of these
heroes, brought face to face with the prospect,
not of fine and imprisonment, but death, for
the sake of his religious convictions. Martin
Luther at the Diet of Worms! When this
brave and resolute soul was asked to recant
what he believed was Bible truth, and sue for
pardon at the feet of the pope and the powers
ecclesiastical and militant of the Catholic
world; standing alone in the midst of his ene-
mies; surrounded by frowning faces and blood-
thirsty hearts, not knowing that he would be
permitted to issue thence alive, did he yield one
inch of the ground he had taken? Did he
cower or crawl before emperor, priest or
noble, and to save his life make a bargain
with the powers of evil and emissaries of
Satan! No! Erect before the imperial tribunal,
pale of face but undismayed at heart, sus-
tained by the power of God and the rectitude


of his own conscience, he exclaimed, with his
hand across the open Bible whose teachings
he was asked to renounce: "Until convinced
by reason and scripture, HERE I STAND! I CAN-
NOT DO OTHERWISE; GOD HELP ME!"
	These are the stalwarts of history; the bea-
con lights along the shores of Time. They
are examples which God has given in the past
for the emulation of the present and the future.
If any are in doubt, and have not the Holy
Spirit to teach them in what direction their
duty lies, let them turn to these human guid-
ing stars for inspiration. The light shed by
such examples, with the great and infallible
criterion of God's Spirit, which burns un-
ceasingly in the heart of every true and faith-
ful Saint, will illumine duty's pathway through-
out the darkest night and cause it to shine
brighter and brighter unto the perfect day.
						O. F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
			WINTER QUARTERS.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	Some of the members of my father's family
had previously left for the Great Salt Lake,
namely, James Smithies and family, Peter
Hanson, Mary Ellen Kimball, and Mary
Forsgreen.
	My uncle, Wm. Murray, had gone with his wife
and daughter and little son—their eldest son
having gone with the pioneers—into Missouri
to work to obtain an outfit for their journey
the next spring. But all were soon prostrated
by disease, and Uncle William's sad forebod-
ings expressed before leaving his beloved sis-
ter, were soon realized. He fell a victim
to disease brought on by the severe hardship
and privations to which he and hundreds of
others had been subjected, withont even the
necessities of life to sustain them.
	His family was lying sick unto death
in the State of Missouri, and this, added to the
already heavy cares that were resting upon
my mother's shoulders, almost overcame her.
It was also a heavy blow to his eldest daughter,
who was living with mother. But though they
felt it a sore bereavement their greatest solace
was the thought that he had obeyed the Gos-
pel, and had never flinched from his duty,
but had died in the harness.
	For a testimony to those who may doubt my
statements I will present a few lines that were
written by my mother July 29, 1847, after
seeking a retired place to pour out her soul in
prayer to Him on whom she leaned for
strength and wisdom, and that light which
drives away the unwelcome mists of darkness
and brings sweet rest to the weary soul.

	"My soul doth magnify the Lord,
	And praise Him for His holy word,
	For He hath blessed me from above,
	And filled my soul with light and love;
	My body, too, He hath renewed,
	My path with blessings He hath strewed.

	My Lord, go with me through this day,
	And may I never cease to pray
	For wisdom, faith and righteousness,
	And may I never ask amiss."

	I have barely touched upon the scenes that
came under my notice during the absence of
the pioneers, but am able to testify to the en-
joyment of many happy seasons after the
mighty struggle with the destroyer was over,
and we were again in the enjoyment of health,
a blessing that none could appreciate more
fully than myself. Some of the little circle
that met often one with another to obtain that
solace which the comfortor alone could give,
have passed on to another stage, leaving one

[Column 2]
here and another there to testify to the out-
pourings of the Holy Spirit that sustained and
cheered them during those trying scenes.
	Two are still remaining in the family of
the late brother John Pack—Sisters Julia
and Ruth, who will bear witness to these things,
and that there were no repinings such as we
read were indulged in by the children of
Israel. We could say with one accord as did
the prophet Job, though reduced in worldly
circumstances or reproached and cut off be-
cause of our seeming wickedness, yet in the
midst of all our sore calamities we were buoyed
up with a holy hope, and were confident of a
glorious reward from Him who is the searcher
of all hearts and has promised that the meek
shall inherit the earth.
	The unbeliever may scoff but we know that
it was the Holy Spirit—the Comforter, and
that faith born of it, that sustained and buoyed
up the drooping spirits and lightened the
cares and toils of the weary under the
varied and trying circumstances that were
calculated to dishearten any but Lattter-day
Saints, who possessed that living faith that en-
abled the soul to look forward to a glorious
future, trusting to that Mighty One whose
power had preserved and led them thus far
and had delivered them "out of the seventh
trouble."
	It is a sad thing to record the apostasy of
any who were once so highly favored as to re-
ceive the great spiritual manifestations which
were enjoyed by Frances Swan and Sarah
Lawrence. Both were sealed to my father
over the holy altar in the Temple at Nauvoo.
The latter named had been the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, his first wife, Emma, having
given her and her sister to him as his wives
for time and all eternity. Sarah made choice
of my father to stand as proxy for Joseph
in this life. But she allowed a jealous nature
to have full sway. She and I became warm
friends after she entered my father's family,
and even after she became disaffected and
thought to better her condition by marrying
another we were still friends and she met
nothing but kindness from father and his
family, he with mother, and other members of
his family went by invitation to spend an
afternoon at her house, after she was married
to her last husband.
	But the man she married had proven
truant to one wife and her little ones, leaving
them to struggle for existence in this
valley through the hardest times experienced
here. And not until they had found friends
to succor and help to keep the wolf from their
door, did he make his appearance, and
then he had very little of the Gospel though
he, at first, professed to be a "Mormon." He
had come from the gold mines of California
where had had made what was then considered
quite a fortune. It was not long before he
proved the truth of my father's predictions as
he denied the faith and returned to California,
taking Sarah with him. But it seems she
failed to find happiness even in monogamy, as
he turned out a dissipated character, and it
was only a few years before she was divorced
from him. She had lost every spark of the
Gospel, which had once been her guiding star,
and was finally left to herself. She became so
wicked that when paying her last visit to Salt
Lake she denied emphatically ever being con-
nected to Joseph or to my father, and was very
insulting to those who dared to dispute her
word. She abused her brother Henry's second
wife most shamefully, when meeting her in his
store, laying to her the most humiliating and
abusive accusations, which proved her to be a
most vicious and heartless woman. Her
brother, Henry Lawrence, was so annoyed by
her unprincipled course, that he was among
the most thankful when she left here and re-
turned to California, where she soon died.


THE UTAH WOMEN.

	Every suffragist in the country is urged to
write at once to every member of Congress
from his or her State, and ask him to use his
utmost influence to defeat in the House of
Representatives the shameful bill passed by
the Senate, proposing to violate freedom, jus-
tice, and vested rights, by robbing the women
of Utah of that suffrage which is theirs by
long-settled law and practice.
	This bill is peculiarly outrageous. Pro-
fessedly aimed at Mormonism, it allows Mor-
mon men to vote; and disfranchises both Gen-
tile and Mormon women. It thus inflicts an
odious penalty on thousands of citizens who
have not been convicted of any crime, and
violates vested rights, a violation which even
so conservative a jurist as the late Judge
Jeremiah S. Black declared illegal and intol-
erable.
	The success of this bill will strike a blow at
the rights of every woman in the land. Let
every suffragist not only write to members of
Congress, but get every one else who can be
induced to do so to write them likewise. Also
let every one write to Hon. Mr. Hill, chairman
of the Committee on Territories, House of
Representatives, Washington, D. C. This is
important.
	A bill with the same purpose has several
times passed the Senate, but we have always,
by vigilance, succeeded in defeating it in the
House. Senator Frelinghuysen at one time
carried a similar bill through the Senate. We
held a meeting at his home (Newark, N. J.),
and got his constituents to pass a resolution
requesting him to change his course. This
disturbed him so much that he felt obliged to
make a personal explanation in the Senate,
and afterward acted very differently. The
woman suffrage movement is stronger now
than then; let the Representatives,
especially Chairman Hill, feel its power.
	Vermont suffragists should set to work at
once to secure the nomination and election to
the Legislature, throughout the state, of men
who will vote against the re-election of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has been always the bitter
foe of the rights of women. Let Vermont
women and their friends see to it that he is
permanently retired.
	The undersigned, who took an active part
in securing woman suffrage in Utah, and has
watched over it specially ever since, makes
these suggestions most earnestly as the fruit of
experience.
				HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	Woman's Journal, Jan. 16.


Mrs. Julia Ward Howe delivered an excel-
lent address before the Brooklyn Woman
Suffrage Association at their last meeting.
The rooms were crowded.

	Mrs. Chute, of Washington Territory, for-
merly an accomplished teacher in Lafayette,
Ind., goes thirty-five miles to vote. She is
postmistress and notary public, owns two
claims and works them, pleads law-suits, has
large herds of sheep and cattle, is an expert
florist, and in addition finds time to read the
magazines and the Woman's Journal.

	Prof. Susan M. Fry, who has the department
of Belles Lettres at the Bloomington (Ill.)
University (seven hundred students), is the
senior professor in rank, and thus becomes act-
ing President in the absence of Dr. Adams.
At such times she presides over the large
Faculty of which she is the only lady member,
and leads in her turn, at morning prayers, all
this being taken as a matter of course by the
gentlemen of that progressive western col-
lege. Mrs. Fry's professorship has been en-
dowed with $27,000 by Charles Cramp and
wife, wealthy farmers of Macon, Ill.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LETTER.

I read it, my letter, my letter, as I sate in my rocky nest;
The waves at my feet were crooning, the wind blew soft
	from the west;
The sunshine on the tangle-beds was blazing fiercely
	down,
And as they wavered to and fro, they glowed to golden
	brown,
I heard the cry of the curlews blend with the breaker's
	roar,
I took from my breast my letter, and read it yet once more.

I read it, my letter, my letter, as I loitered by the sea,
And, as I read, my fancy was flying fast and free,
Away from the sunny seaboard, away from the purple
	down;
I saw the smoky, sullen streets, I saw the busy town,
I saw the desk with its dusty load, I saw the dreary room,
And I saw the dark-blue eyes I knew, outshining in the
	gloom.

I read it, my letter, my letter, and I saw illumine it,
The graceful phrase, the graphic touch, the flash of ready
	wit,
The tender lingering o'er the words, that even as he
	wrote,
Seemed as though love hovered over them, their truth and
	depth to note;
The sweet old words whose iterance, to those that yearn to
	hear,
But deepens ever down and down, and deepening grows
	more dear.

I read it, my letter, my letter; then softly in fragments
	small
I tore the precious pages, and stooped to kiss them all;
They were safe and sure, the golden words, rewritten in
	my heart,
It were surely best, in a world of change, with their earthly
	shrines to part;
So I tore it, my letter, my letter; with a smile and with a
	a sigh,
And tossed them to the sunny sea, beneath the sunny sky.

To what I have loved so long and well, the flashing,
	dancing wave,
To the mighty arms of the great North Sea, the thing I
	prized I gave;
It should die, my letter, my letter, no common mortal
	death,
It should be rocked upon the ocean's breast, lulled by the
	ocean's breath.
Has a monarch a kinglier requiem, a chief a noblier
	shrine,
Than that I gave my letter, from that rocky rest of mine?
							All the Year Round.


[Column 1]

BEREAVEMENT.

	"There's not a joy the world can give, like that it takes
away."—BYRANT.

	Who has not echoed these words, or the
sentiment they contain, when bending over the
lost beloved one? Who has not perfectly
realized all they contain, the wailing of the
stricken heart, the desolation of their surround-
ings, the dearth of all their future life! The
vacant chair that none can ever occupy—the
star that has gone out of their hemisphere,
never to rise again in this sublunary state—
how many that read these words will endorse
them, as they strike chords responding to those
in their own heart's experience. The lines I
have quoted were written by one of the great-
est poet; they were wrung out of his heart by
a sad experience. He had seen all that were
near and dear to him, with one exception, fall
into the cold embrace of death, in a most
singular and remarkable manner, and the one
who ought to have stood by him and soothed
the lacerated heart, was too stoical, too exalted
a character to realize or appreciate a heart
pierced by the arrows of the Almighty—she
was estranged, and left him in his sorrows, and
he exclaimed, that he stood upon his hearth,
with his household gods shivered around him.
There are living sorrows far more poignant


[Column 2]

than those of death, sad and desolating as
they are, and this man's was a living sorrow,
that wound up all the rest. Death brings its
own balm with it; a living sorrow often has no
panacea, but eats as a canker into the very
seat of life, causing its very fountain to send
forth springs bitter as "the waters of Marah"
—and no Moses near to throw in the sweeten-
ing corrective. 'Tis nature's due to shed the
tears of love and sympathy over our beloved
dead, but soon let us turn and assist in alleviat-
ing the living sorrows which we can see daily
around us. Let us read history and biography,
and we will there find that even the crowned
heads and the wealthy, and such whose lot was
cast in what is termed "high life," have often
been martyrs, either publicly or in the private
sphere of life; God is decidedly no respector of
persons; if he has the least preference, it is for
the poor and the needy, the prisoner in the
Bastile, the widow and the orphan; these are
assuredly His especial care. Let us take a
character from the Bible, one whose life I have
so often read, and shed over it the tear of sym-
pathy, and there is a fine moral and great
consolation and instruction to be derived from
it; how often her pathetic ejaculation has burst
from my own heart, and issued from my own
lips—"Thou God seest me!" What a beauti-
ful, pathetic and confiding appeal were those
words of Hagar, as she stood alone in the
desert! What a volume they contain! How
brief and yet how full! Her whole soul was
presented to the Lord in those few words. They
might be elaborated in such aspirations as,
"Father, I stand here before Thee, alone in
the desert, alone, except with my young child;
we are indeed in the wilderness of the world;
man hath forsaken us, and cast us forth; we
look around over the vast expanse, but all is
desert; we are parched with its sand and its
glaring sun; we thirst, but there is no water.
The pitcher is drained of its last drop; my life
is before Thee, from its earliest days Thou
knowest I have obeyed Thy laws of marriage,
and Thou hast given me this boy; he was be-
loved by his father, but another came, and he
was supplanted, and because we felt the iron
of oppression enter our soul, and my child in
his innocence and ignorance showed out his
feelings, we are cast out, but Thou seest me;
pardon and forgive all that Thy pure eyes have
seen amiss, and hold us thine, and let us live;
Thou canst send us water even in the desert."
Something like this did those few words con-
tain, when lo! she hears a sound. She puts
her ear to the ground, and distinctly hears the
rushing of water. She pursues the sound, and
she sees, oh, ecstasy! water gushing out of a
rock that arose in the desert. She had laid her
child away that she might not see him die; she
springs to him, she bathes his parched lips, his
face, his hands; she gives him to drink, and
then she drinks herself and becomes refreshed
and invigorated. Was this all the answer to
her prayer? No; behold a bright messenger
from the courts of glory approaches her, and to map
out her future course of life, and that of her
child, who was to "become the father of a
great nation." What woman would not be con-
tent to pass through the crucible of a great
living sorrow to be so honored and sustained?
No doubt she had realized the full import of
those thrilling words, "There's not a joy the
world can give, like that it takes away," but
God is with the lowly and the forsaken, and
His angels minister unto them, for "man's ex-
tremity is God's opportunity."
	Our subject is bereavement, and we will
continue it a little farther. There are few that
have not lost some beloved ones, few that have
not watched the soul take wing, who have not
seen that thrilling look when the spirit is
hovering on the confines of its eternal home, so
entirely unspeakable, which no painter has ever
caught, all the most intensely sacred passions

[Column 3]

of the soul gathered into that one grand focus,
in that most mysterious intermediate moment
between the mortal and the immortal life,
never, never to be forgotten in its mute lan-
guage, and then succeeds a calm, a beauty be-
held nowhere else, impressed by the enfran-
chised spirit, like lightning upon the mortal
frame it had just vacated!
	The Bible speaks of "the widows of Ashue;"
may we not with truth and propriety speak in
our scripture of he widows of Utah, most of
them "widows indeed," to whom the especial
favors of heaven have been promised. Now
many are made widows, and their children
orphans by the cruel, the unjust, the wicked
judgments of wicked judges, casting their hus-
bands, by unjust verdicts, into prison. Will
not the Lord require restitution at their hands?
Are not His people as dear to Him as in days
of old? This woman just named was a plural
wife of the man named in the Bible, "the
friend of God, the father of the faithful, whose
posterity should be numerous as the stars of
heaven, and the sands upon the seashore."
Are notthe widows of Utah as dear to Him as
those in days of yore? As a widow, I confidently
answer, "yes," and I know it. He has said He
will be the husband of the widow and the
father of the orphan. Let mighty faith be
cultivated by the widows and by the orphans,
and if need be they, too, shall receive a mes-
senger from the court of heaven to comfort, to
teach, perhaps reprove the widowed daughters
of God, and His rebukes shall be sweeter far
than the kisses of the earthly. Why cannot
the women of God have faith like the women
of old? God is the same yesterday, to-day and
forever. His people have made holy coven-
ants with Him in His holy places, and have
strained every nerve to keep them. He has
promised those who ask shall receive; to those
who knock the door shall be opened
His ministering angels wait to do His bidding;
the pure and the good are their especial care.
What, then, can hinder this people from re-
ceiving all that was bestowed upon His people
of old, when His Church was first organized
upon the earth? The time has come now when
that Church can no be no more thrown down; it
may be battered and bruised, but its founda-
tion is the rock of ages, and Christ Himself
has said, "The gates of hell shall not prevail
against it! Heaven and earth may pass away,
but my words shall not pass away." "So mote
it be!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 9th, 1886.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss. Norton, daughter of Prof. Chas. Eliot
Norton, is one of the finest violinists of the
Boston Orchestral Club.
	Miss Elizabeth Stuart Phelps has written
"Burglars in Paradise," in the style of "The
Old Maid's Paradise."
	Let every man take care how he speaks and
writes of honest people, and not set down at a
venture the first thing that comes uppermost.
	Inquisitive people are the funnels of con-
versation; they do not take in anything for
their own use, but merely to pass it to an-
other.
	Mrs. Frances Anne Kemble atiributes her
attainment of her seventy-fifth year in full
health and vigor to her life-long persistence in
outdoor exercise, especially on horseback, in
all sorts of weather.
	Mrs. Virginia Hanson has been nominated
for re-election as State Librarian of Kentucky.
"So well has that excellent lady performed
her official duties," says the Louisville Courier-
Journal, "that her nomination and re-election
follow as a matter of course."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			   SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	FEBRUARY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM WASHINGTON.

	The National Capital is not so gay this winter,
at least so far on, as it has generally been of late
years; it is said that the Senators and Representa-
tives are not men of so much means and wealth as
those of the last Congress. But still there is
plenty of display in dress, jewelry and all that
goes to make up the lady of fashion, and balls,
parties, clubs and calls are numerous as ever, and
it would seem even more so. The extravagance
in dress is something from which one whose
thoughts tend in a higher direction must turn
away with a sort of disgust. It almost absorbs
the life of women of society, and there is no doubt
but that many deaths have resulted from the ridicu-
lous fashions and customs of this public society.
It is quite time women turned their attention to
something loftier and better than this dress-parade,
this constant drain upon the purse, and the foolish
and exacting demands of Madame Grundy.
There is, one would suppose, and indeed there
must be, something very fascinating about this
continuous whirl of excitement, that makes one
forget the duty of self-preservation and carries too
many of its votaries to an early and untimely
grave, making them victim's to its cruel demands.
One cannot help exclaiming, "To what will all
this tend in the history of the race of men and
women, and what will the offspring of the next
generation be, if indeed there be a generation
born at all of these lovers of pleasure, these devo-
tees at the shrine of fashion?" The habits of men
are perhaps more deteriorating in their tendencies
than those of women, though differing materially
in the main; tobacco smoking seems to be the
great evil that is most apparent, though there are
many vices that are said to be increasing to an
alarming extent, and those who look at these mat-
ters seriously are greatly exercised over the fearful
statistics of crime, and the secret evils that creep
into modern society and sap the very foundations
of life, as it were, unawares. But from sins such
as these may Zion long be free, and her sons and
daughters grow up simple in their habits and
moderate in their tastes, and if unsophisticated,
pure and chaste in their lives, that the race may
grow strong morally and physically, as well as
spiritually, and that the cultivation of the heart
and the higher attributes of one's nature may sur-
pass the love of dress and amusements, and that
they may never despise the mission of motherhood,
and prefer dogs and pets of various kinds to the
children given them of God, possessing immortal
souls.
	We had no intention of moralizing, but it is a
sickening sight to see women calling themselves
ma and grandma to puppies, and saying, "Your
papa" so and so, to dogs, and see the homes
desolate of the voices of little children.
	Washington is a grand old city, and one never
tires of admiring its grandeur and magnificence,
its elegant public buildings, its beautiful parks and
avenues and squares, its handsome and stupen-


[Column 2]

dous monuments, and its many statues to great
and illustrious men—all are interesting to the
general observer, and specially so to the native
born American, who delights in the glory of
his country and her many noted places of in-
terest.
	The Capitol Building itself is really the centre
of attraction to the majority; thither in crowds day
after day, the people congregate to see and hear
the great men of the nation, who assemble daily
to perform the duties of the Congress to which
they have been elected by their constituents in the
several States and Territories of the Union.
	The Capitol is acknowledged to be the finest
building in this country, and some people affirm
in all the world, but as we have not been all over
the world, we cannot answer for that assertion,
but can say truthfully it is the finest we have
seen.
	It stands on Capitol Hill, as though nature her-
self had prepared the very spot purposely for this
imposing national edifice. To give a full descrip-
tion of the building would take up too much space,
and there are other things more important to tell,
but we will say it consists of a main building, with
two extentions, one at either side, in one of which
the Senate meets, in the other the House of Re-
presentatives. In the main building is the hall
used by the Supreme Court of the United States,
what was formerly the Senate Chamber, also the
National Gallery of Statues. There are many
objects of interest, about the Capitol, and one
might go there day after day and be agreeably
entertained with pictures, statuary and the like,
but it is not always convenient or, for many rea-
sons, expedient. One sees a great many fine
looking people in and around the rooms of the
Capitol, and occasionally one hears fine oratory,
but that does not usually come every day.
	The weather has been very cold in Washington
this winter, and there has been some good sleigh-
ing and fine coasting, and the people have enjoyed
it, judging from appearances.
	No doubt our readers would like to hear about
the new President and the Lady of the White
House—his sister. With the most of the people
they do not seem to be very great favorites,neither
with Democrats, his own party, much more than
with Republicans. In New York and Boston, and
indeed in country towns in New England, he is
very freely discussed, and his administration most
severely, and, one might almost say, savagely
critciized. At a concert given at All Soul's Church,
by blind children who had been trained in Eng-
land, President Cleveland was present, and as he
sat on the next seat to where the writer was sit-
ting, on a chair in the aisle, there was a very good
opportunity to see him. He looks exactly like his
picture, except he seems to be more fleshy, and is
bald at the back of his head. One would never
judge he was the President from looking
at him, though he looks quite as Presidential as
many of his predecessors in office. It is quite
usual to imagine that people must really look like
the ideal one has in mind, but they very rarely do.
However, he does look as if he could fill the
President's chair, even if it is so very large indeed.
His sister is small compared to her brother, she is
rather thin, looks very intellectual, and is sweet
mannered. She gets the credit of being the
power behind the throne, and is spoken of as
strong-minded, and having great influence with
her brother. A very funny story goes the rounds
here, which will give the idea of what is imagined
concerning her, by a large class who, no doubt,
envy her the position she holds here, and are not
half so amiable or approachable as she is. A
Frenchman said, in a satirical and humorous way,
"There was Catharine of Russia, and Elizabeth
of England, and now we have Elizabeth of
America."
	Senator Edmunds is still hammering away at
the Mormons, and public sentiment is at the

[Column 3]

present time pretty well educated in its opposition
to Mormonism. People advise us to take mea-
sures to educate public sentiment on the Mormon
side of the question, but how is that to be done,
when they will only hear one side of the story?
There are some fair-minded people who would
listen, would read, if they had the time, but they
are mostly the busy people, who have so much
business that they have not time for religion. A
few men here and there, and one or two women
see through the schemes of the Federal officials in
Utah, and declare that it is not polygamy they are
fighting, it is a combined effort to rob the people
of their rights; others think Edmunds means well,
but is too zealous, but he does it for the best, and
is an upright man, and would not encroach upon
the rights of others, "but he has got off wrong"
on this "Mormon question." There are those
who fear very much the provision of the bill in re-
gard to the confiscation of Church property—and
those are Church people. And again, the advo-
cates of suffrage for women are indignant that
Senator Edmunds should, want to take the suffrage
away from women and not from men, and
they look upon it as another great injustice to
women, which is, of course, plain to be seen, and
these strong suffragists have the names of the
Senators who voted for that Bill "down on their
lists," and as sure as the world, Edmunds is
down, the ringleader of this gross injustice;
"they've got him on the list," rest assured. But,
then, its only Mormon women, and a few others,
he thinks, no doubt, and that is all right, Mor-
mons have no rights any way that ought to be
respected; that’s exactly what he must think, or
he could never have framed such a bill as this last
one, for his former bill, passed in 1882, covers all
the grouud that the United States at large, the
sixty milllions of people, they talk so much about,
are hankering for, the breaking up of homes that
have been made in plural marriage. This is what
the press and pulpit have howled over, "we must
put down polygamy, and make these Mormons
conform to our views," and then they are just like
other people, but when they've got a law passed
that is so severe that every man against whom
any proof can be obtained is convicted, no matter
how flimsy the testimony, then they are not satis-
fied, but cry out for more, until they may be like
the boy who wanted an apple, and when he got it
he wanted another, and still another, until he
could no longer hold them, and they all rolled
away, and he lost even the first. Senator Ed-
munds is too greedy on the Mormon question, and
has plainly shown to all fair-minded people that
polygamy was only a drop in the bucket, instead
of the great big fish he intends to catch; but if the
great big fish he is after don't swallow him, as the
whale did Jonah, he may think himself pretty
lucky. It is thought, generally, that he is working
for the next Presidental election. "God save the
mark!" The country is badly enough off now,
without such a narrow-minded bigot as he is to
occupy the chair of State. If the sixty millons
of people think the "Mormon" question the one
most necessary to have settled, and the Edmunds
bills, one after another, don't succeed in getting
rid of the Mormons for them, why then, perhaps,
they will think if he was President he could do it;
but Mormons are not so easily bilked, and Con-
gress and the President have some other matters
of a serious nature to engross their attention, and
although Edmunds may be the ablest man in the
Senate, there is a very poor prospect of his being
elected, or even nominated, and some other great
big greedy fish, who is looking after big fish, in-
stead of such small fry as "Mormons," will prob-
ably run away with the coveted prize, and leave
him and his "Mormon" bills to go down stream.
He has, however, probably with other influences
at work, succeeded in arousing a great deal of
animosity against the "Mormons," and prejudice
is very much stronger now than seven years ago,


but it is always the darkest just before day, and to
the true Latter-day Saint there is courage that the
day dawn is near, and though storm clouds may
threaten, and even break over their heads, they
know who can at any moment say to the winds
and waves, "Be still!" and they will obey, and
that there is One above who controls the destinies
of nations and holds them in His hand, and in the
darkest time of deepest trial, the Saints have seen
light spring suddenly forth from the midst of dark-
ness, and help has come when most needed, even
at the last moment, as it were, and while the
Saints are true and faithful and keep the coven-
ants they have made with God and with each
other there is no need of fear and trembling.
	There are so many things to write about, one
scarcely knows where to begin, and, indeed, it is
difficult to decide which matter would be most in-
teresting, but some day we must tell of our visit to
Plymouth and Pilgrim Hall, to Haverhill, where
we met a dear old schoolmate, and felt as though
we had seen a vision—about our Boston cousins,
and so on, the visit to Oak Knoll, one of the
homes of Whittier, the poet, to the grand old
theological town, Andover, where we met Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, and to the most interesting
visit of all these—in Whittier's study, at his other
home, in Amesbury, where so many of his beauti-
ful poems were written, of the dinner there, and
the hucleberry pie—not "cold huckleberry pud-
ding;" then you must hear, too, of the very queer,
not to say weird old houses we wandered through,
where, when a child, our feet have strayed, and
lastly, the White House and Capitol, where, by
the by, we ascended to the top of the Dome; and
very soon we expect to leave Washington for
other interesting points, among which may be
mentioned Kirtland and Nauvoo.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR CHILDREN.

	This theme, so exhaustless and so important,
although so well worn, is always interesting to
the Latter-day Saints; therefore, no apology is
deemed necessary for its introduction here; in
fact, every issue of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should contain at least one page devoted to this
one subject.
	Many mothers, who have had long experience
in the rearing of children, are capable of giving
valuable hints to others who have not been in the
work so long, and to whom such hints would be of
great worth. But, alas! the hard-working, careful
mother is rarely the one to find time for sitting
down and writing bits of her experience for the
benefit of others. The result is, we have too
little of such matter in our papers, and too much
that is of far less value.
	From a private letter, written by a lady whose
residence is at Ryde, on the Isle of Wight, the
following extracts are taken by permission:
	"I think those persons are much to be con-
gratulated who are prompt in their habits, and to
whom it is neither effort nor denial to do their
work, and carry out their good purposes with
alacrity. I have heard it said, 'If you want a
thing done, give it to the man who has most to do,'
and I firmly believe it admits of sufficiently sim-
ple explanation, from the force of this most de-
sirable habit. And partly, perhaps, from natural
temperament, it is actually less trouble to such,
even though pressed for time, than to the individu-
al with ample leisure who must needs wait for the
breeze to fill the sails, or, in other words, to be in
the right humor, before making these intentions
take form and become accomplished facts. No
doubt many a good purpose is hopelessly lost in
the horribe quicksand of procrastination, which
would never have been sacrificed deliberately.
	If I had the management of the young, such
points as these are what I should consider of im-
portance, leaving mere book learning to a later

[Column 2]

date, as I firmly believe, often to the gain of the
young learner:
	Kindness and consideration to brothers and
sisters and companions, and to their inferiors in
position, of course, not omitting ready obedience
to parents, teachers and those above them; truth-
fulness, care in making a promise, and great care
in keeping the same, assuming, of course, that
the promise is a right one, and the avoidance of
the procrastination to which I have been just al-
luding; these, and kindred virtues, are what I
should lay every stress on, as laying a worthy and
attractive foundation for development in later
years, nor should I fear for the result.
	That all children, as a rule, are selfwilled, goes
without saying; also, that there is a wide differ-
ence in their dispositions, some seeming to be
born with much better dispositions than others
(Lock's theory, notwithstanding), but when we
see a child given to selfishness, and delighting in
tyranny, or teasing, as the case may be, if un-
checked, what can be expected but that these
faults will become vices in mature age? And it is
a poor set-off against it in such children, that
they are, perhaps, very talented, and in after life
may become great ornaments in society, and that
they can be very agreeable when they like, and
might be of much use if they only chose.
	Talent can be turned to evil as well as good ac-
count, as probably most persons could find sad
examples of, where, it is to be feared, this leading
aim in education, the developing of what is good,
with the repressing of evil tendencies, has been
overlooked or left in abeyance.
	Happily, we are none of us wholly dependent
upon oral tuition or human instructors. We have
all the teaching and training of experience, a safe
teacher in all cases."
	Will not the points tonched upon in the fore-
going be worthy of consideration by many parents
to whose notice they may be brought through their
insertion in the EXPONENT? And will not some
of our gifted and truely wise mothers in Israel,
exert themselves to assist in filling a column, such
as has been mentioned, to aid in the training and
teaching of our children?
	LULA.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	These times of persecution and trouble for
the Latter-day Saints, though aggravating in
their form and hard to bear are neverthe-
less fraught with blessing for them that
are manifest in many ways. There is at the
present a spirit of unity and independence
existing among them to a degree not witnessed
before for many years.
	The injustice and abuse heaped upon the
people are having a good effect upon the minds
of the youths of our Church; many who have
hitherto apparently taken very little interest
in the teachings of the gospel are beginning to
arouse and "buckle on the armor," a spirit
of action begins to burn within them which
without the stimulus that persecution gives
would have lain dormant. And this feeling of
despotism and cruelty which is steadily increas-
ing toward us is not to be regretted when we
realize the purifying effect it has upon us and
especially upon our children who have been
conceived, born and reared under a spirit of
perfect love and confidence. Then, inheriting
as they do this sweet spirit of confiding love
and trust, how essential to their welfare it is
that the emissaries of Satan who have sought
us out and established themselves among us
should be made to throw off the mask and
show themselves in their true character.
	It is pleasing to note how prompt the Y. M.
M. I. A. members, true sons of Abraham, were,
to fold the cloak of independence and pride
about them as soon as our enemies, the wor-

[Column 2]

shippers of Baal, began to uncover their
faces before them.
	How pleasant the situation when all the Lat-
ter-day Saints exhibit in their lives the same
spirit that did that ancient patriarch when
the idolatrous king bent humbly before him
offering presents, and, although the king was
much indebted to him for favors received, yet
he answered that he would not receive from
his hands even the value of a shoe lace. If
we are the children of Abraham we will do
the works of Abraham and pattern after his
ways, and we will not regret any position we
are placed in that will bring us to his stand-
ard of righteousness and nearer the Kingdom
of heaven. No Latter-day Saint who has the
fire of the Gospel burning in his veins can
fail to see that the power of God is in all these
things, and that His arm is stretched out to-
wards us and they cannot help rejoicing under
all the trials we endure. That spirit of sociabili-
ty and freedom that sprung up a few years
ago between our people and the outsiders
was not savoring of good for the Latter-day
Saints, and much care and anxiety
was imposed upon the faithful parents and the
authorities of the Church in consequence of
the tendency of many of our young people to
intermingle and marry with those not of our
faith, and it is well that there is beginning to
be a line drawn and that a separation be made
between the righteous and the ungodly. At
every period of time when God has had a peo-
ple of His choice on the earth the command has
been to not mix with those of an alien creed.
This subject has been frequently and very
plainly spoken upon by the editor of the
Juvenile in editorials and "Topics of the Times"
in that magazine and which no mother or
daughter in Israel should fail to read. He
makes mention of several instances in which
sorrow and distress has been the result when
this law given to Latter-day Israel has been
broken, and to those given by him another
might also be added, that of a young girl of
Salt Lake City, sixteen years old, and a mem-
ber of a highly respectable family in the
Church who married an outsider, who had
lived for many years in the Territory a good
enough man she thought. About a year ago
he came south on his way to Arizona, carrying
with him warrants for the arrest of some of
the leaders of the church whom he expected
to find there, he having been deputized
by Marshal Ireland to hunt these men
down; he took with him his wife, the young
girl mentioned, and a private letter written
by her to a friend a few months ago states that
she was then living in Arizona a few miles
from Phoenix alone and deserted. The noble
defender (?) of woman's rights and persecutor
of the "grey haired abusers of the law" (as he
termed our venerated exiled leaders) had left
her and gone, she knew not where; her watch,
jewelry and all her surplus clothing she had
sold, she said, to buy food for herself and child,
and, she adds, "I know no one in this whole coun-
try and there is nothing left for me to do but
starve." In reference to the death of one of
her friends, she says: "The news of her death
was a shock to me, but she is better off than
I am; I would willingly change places with
her, my greatest sorrow is that I cannot die."
This is a deplorable picture, but the fruits of
the bitter lessons we learn are sweet. And the
sooner the women of Zion learn to follow
strictly the voice of Him who has called them,
the sooner they will be saved from the dread-
ful and damning sins which the men of the
world would heap upon them. They are
learning from the cruelty and injustice im-
posed upon them by the leaders of the nation
and by those who have been foremost in the out-
cry for some law to be enacted to free the Mor-
mon women from their serfdom, that outside of
the fold into which God has called them they
have no friends. They have learned that they


cannot depend upon the governors and judges
of this nation to insure to them their personal
rights. They have seen the liberty, happiness
and all the rights of a wife laid at the feet of
the judge and instead of their being cherished
and protected by him, saw them spurned, cast
aside and trampled upon, while he empowers
the man to crush her, cast her and her lawful-
ly begotten children off and brand them with
shame. I say it is well for the women of Zion
to learn this, that aside from the noble few who
are brave enough to stand forth in the face of
the opposing nation and die if necessary for the
principles of salvation, there are none who
will defend their rights nor protect their virtue.
This purifying flame by the hand of our Father
cannot fail to scathe with grief the hearts of
some, those whose misfortune it has been to be-
come united with those who are wanting in
faith in the gospel and in integrity of heart
and purpose, and are unable to stand before
their oppressors without quailing. With such
wives and mothers our sympathy is deep.
Those are the real sufferers. To see husbands
and sons immured in prisons or seeking refuge
in the mountains like wild beasts is a grievous
thing, but it is much more grievous to see them
crouch with trembling knees, and supplicating
mercy before an infamous judge whose mis-
sion it is to apply the test to prove them. But
if we have husbands and sons who cannot bear
this test and are not willing to bear all for the
truth's sake let us remember that " 'Tis better
that one of the members should perish than
that the whole body should be cast into
hell," and so still kiss the rod that chastens.
'Tis a wise Father who is giving us these se-
vere but soul strengthening lessons; and that
He is on the side of the women of Zion, and
that he is pleased with the work they have
done before Him cannot be doubted by any
except those of little or no faith. He has
proven to them that He has given them true
friends and protectors among the men of the
earth, and that His Priesthood dwells with
them, a fact that does not exist among any
other class of women on the earth. The
prisons of Utah, Arizona, Idaho, and that at
Detroit can answer the question as to what
some of these are. This is a dark hour for
this nation, and the names of those men,
"beacon lights" they have justly been called,
will shine forth in the future history of woman
with a brilliant lustre, and they will live in
the hearts of womankind and be honored
for the noble manner in which they have given
up liberty in defense of that principle which
the women of all nations will yet know was
instituted by God for the salvation of their
race. So I say there is nothing in the present
crusade against us to make even the most
faint hearted woman falter. It is for her to
stand still and see the salvation of Zion, in the
work of which she bears a most honorable
part.		MAC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	MOAB.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a brief report from the Relief
Society and Primary Association of this ward
would be of interest to your many readers, I
submit the following:
	On the 7th of November last a meeting was
called by our esteemed Bishop, R. H. Stewart,
for the purpose of re-organizing the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association of this ward,
which was made necessary by the death of the
President of the former, Sister China Lutz, and
the removal from the ward of the President of
the latter. The following organization was
effected for the Relief Society: Sarah M.
Burnham, President; Priscilla Warner and
Sarah J. Stewart, Counselors; Amanda E.


Taylor, Secretary; Julia A. Pierce, Treasurer.
For the Primary Association, Anna McBride,
President; Clara M. Burnham and Rose Lutz,
Counselors; Lizzie Roberson, Secretary; Ros-
anna Stewart, Treasurer. The officers were
then set apart by the Bishopric.
	It seems the determination of the officers
and members to press on in the cause of truth
and assist in bearing off the kingdom of God.
Although bemeaned and persecuted for the
Gospel's sake, we know in whom we trust, and
that He will wreak vengeance on those who
fight against Zion, and that we will get our re-
ward by yielding obedience to the requirements
of the Gospel.
	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT,
we subscribe ourselves,
		Your sisters,
	SARAH M. BURNHAM, Prest.,
	AMANDA E. TAYLOR, Sec.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	BLOOMINGTON, Feb. 8th, 1886.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking you would like to hear a word
from this part of the country, I thought I
would write a few lines.
	On the 3rd of February Bishop Hulme and
the President of the Relief Society got up our
customary old folk's party, when all who had
attained the age of fifty and upwards, with a
few invited guests, were present at a dinner
given in the schoolhouse. There were between
ninety-five and a hundred persons seated at a
bounteous repast. After the the tables were
cleared, and singing and prayer, a programme
was gone through, consisting of songs, speeches,
recitations and dancing, all of which was much
enjoyed by all present. The two oldest gentle-
men and the two oldest ladies were each the
recipients of a small present. Prest. James
H. Hart and Prest. Julia P. Lindsay of R. S.
gave us interesting and valuable instructions,
as did a number of brethren and sisters. Since
our last gathering of this kind, we have lost
two of our aged sisters by death, but they were
faithful to the end.
	Our winter has been unusually mild for this
northern country. We occasionally receive a
visit from the marshal or his deputies, but not-
withstanding this we enjoy a good spirit, and
feel that all is well with us so long as we are
true to our covenants and our God.
	Wishing success to your paper, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.

	WEST JORDAN, Jan. 17th 1886.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write to your
valuable paper, so I hope you will please ex-
cuse my feeble efforts, as I feel I would like
to pen a few items of my experience.
	A few years ago I knew a noble young
woman, who had been taught from her infancy
to love truth and virtue and the principles of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Her affections were
placed upon an honest, good and intelligent
man. She entered into the marriage relation
by making solemn vows and covenants that
were for all time and eternity. In the course
of time she was blessed with offspring and
among them a pair of twin baby girls. They
were very delicate; but by the careful and
affectionate care of the loving mother and
the faith and earnest prayers of a fond father
the Lord stayed the hand of the destroyer and
they were snatched, as it were, repeatedly
from the jaws of death.
	As time rolled on they could run around the
mother's knee with their prattling sweet voices
raised in musical tones singing "Sweet Birds,
Sweet Birds". On the fourteenth of January

[Column 2]

they would be two years old, so the fond mother
thought she would invite a few of her rela-
tives and friends and celebrate the day by
returning thanks to God our Heavenly Father
that He had spared their lives up to the pres-
ent time, hoping to have a pleasant time and a
sociable visit. On the morning of the thir-
teenth, just as they had risen from their bended
knees in offering up their thanks to God for
sparing their lives through another night, and
asking for His blessings through another day,
there came a knock at the door, and who
should it be but a deputy marshal, who soon
spread confusion and sorrow in that happy
family. The next morning that sorrow-
stricken mother was compelled to leave her
twin babes and two other dear children and
take her infant a month old and travel twelve
miles to Salt Lake City exposed to the cold
inclement weather, there to appear before
judge and jury. Her feelings may be imagined
when she reflected that her truthful testimony
was likely to tear that dear husband and af-
fectionate father from his dear wives and little
innocent children and place him inside prison
walls, there to mingle with murderers, thieves
and other wicked men. Next morning, feeble
and weak after the exposure and excitement
of the day before, she was seated in her easy
chair with her baby in her arms, when there
again came two deputy marshals wanting some
person they supposed to be there, telling her
their business and saying that they were
sorry, but if she did not tell the truth and the
whereabouts of the person they wanted they
would be compelled to take her to the city and
perhaps it would cause her imprisonment.
She said she did not know where the person
was any more than they did. After searching
the house and not finding the object of their
inquiry and asking her many questions which
she answered to the best of her ability, they
finally said they believed she told the truth.
They could not look that saintly woman in
the face and say otherwise. Well, such trials
the Saints of God are subjected to to-day.
What will come next? Well may the cry go
up, "oh Lord how long, how long, must thy
people endure these things for conscience sake."
	Praying the Lord to give His children
strength sufficient for their day, I am,
		Yours etc.,
			M. B.


THE WOMAN OF INFLUENCE.

	Mr. Worth, the eminent Paris dressmaker,
telegraphs to the Boston Sunday Herald that
the great and pressing need of the age is a
Woman of Influence, somewhere or other, to
set the fashions. In default of this, he has,
after exhausting his genius upon a new dress,
to use various indirect devices to bring it into
vogue. When one thinks what a beautiful
work of art a lady's dress may be, when wealth
and Worth have done their best for it, and
what an apalling product mere wealth, without
taste, can develop under that name, one may
well give a sigh of sympathy to this man of
genius who can find no woman quite worthy of
his scissors. Yet the truth is that the Woman
of Influence is demanded not alone to wear
clothes, but to modify and control all the
habits of society. A person of power, of in-
dividuality, of resouoces, of charm, is needed
in every place where a woman stands, and is
not to be had in answer to an advertisement.
"What we want," said a certain school com-
mittee-man, after a long debate in committee
about the best way to secure a competent fe-
male assistant in the high school—"what we
want, gentlemen, is a splendid woman." This
was at once accepted by all as the complete
formula for the situation; it was the later task
of actually hunting up this priceless creature
and securing for her eight hundred dollars a
year that proved formidable.


[Column 1]

	In these days one is certainly impressed with
the prominence of literature as a sphere for the
Woman of Influence. When we think of the
thousands of high schools and academies
throughout the land in which, next gradua-
tion-day, some maiden in white will read an
essay on "The Genius of George Eliot," we
may well say with Rufus Choate, "After all, a
book is the only immortality." And surely
the reader is impressed with the way in
which a woman's genius, even if not of
the very highest order, may retain its hold
after her death, on seeing the late statements
of Mr. Routledge, the great publisher of
cheap books in England, as to the continued
demand for Mrs. Heman's poetry. In the last
generation the pure and melodious muse of
this lady had great reputation; her American
editor was Professor Andrews Norton, father
of the present Professor Charles Eliot Norton,
and one of the most cultivated critics of his
day; and it appears from the late memoirs of
Garrison that her verses were long the favorite
food of that strong and heroic mind. Yet it
has been the custom to speak of her popularity
as a thing of the past. Now comes Mr. Rout-
ledge and gives the figures as to his sales of
the different poets in the year ending June 12,
1885. First comes Longfellow, with the ex-
traordinary sale of 6,000 copies; then we drop
to Scott, with 3,170; Shakespeare, 2,700; Byron,
2,380; Moore, 2,276; Burns, 2,250. To these
succeeds Mrs. Hemans, with a sale of 1,900
copies; Milton falling short of her by 50, and
no one else showing much more than half that
demand. Hood had 980 purchasers, Cowper
800, and all others less; Shelley had 500, and
Keats but 40. Of course this is hardly an ap-
proximate estimate of the comparative popu-
larity of these poets, since much would depend,
for instance, on the multiplicity or value of
rival editions; but it proves in a general way
that Mrs. Hemans holds her own, in point of
readers, fifty years after her death. What
other form of influence for man or woman
equals this?
	Yet there may be other modes of action.
That of Florence Nightingale for instance,
modestly vindicating a woman's foresight
against the dulness and red tape of a whole
War Department; and returning from the most
superb career of public service that ever
woman had, with ruined health, but with such
universal love and reverence from the Crimean
army that a statue would have been erected to
her by a penny subscription had she not re-
fused it. That of Clara Barton or Dorothea
Dix, or Mary Livermore, or Jean Lander, or
Mother Brickerdyke, in our own civil war.
That of many a worker in the Associated
Charities of our large cities; or of those special
organizations which were almost always carried
on, thirty years ago, under the official leader-
ship and treasurership of men, but which have
been steadily falling, more and more, during
that period, into the hands of women. That
of many a woman of society, so called, who
recognizes in "society" itself a sphere for con-
scientious duty—so that the tone of a whole
town or city may sometimes be said to be kept
up or let down according as the leading "so-
ciety woman" is a person of character or a
doll. That of many a woman in some log
cabin on the frontier, whose "society" consists
in a dozen children of her own and perhaps
two or three more taken in from charity; the
woman who, nameless and noteless, maintains
that average quality among our American peo-
ple that can always be relied upon to send
from obsecurity a Lincoln or a Grant in time
of imminent need. Beyond all these, perhaps,
in total influence, ranks the great army of
women teachers, spreading their unseen and
daily labors through every school district from
Cape Cod to the Golden Gate; smoothing the
waste places, equalizing all our civilization,
doing the most for the poorest; and again, in

[Column 2]

the upper regions of education, rising into the
work of such missionaries of the highest train-
ing as Mary Lyon in the past, or Alice Free-
man in the present. Compared with these, how
petty seem the little struggles for position and
etiquette! In what lingering childishness does
the most exalted womanhood of Europe seem
still to be involved when we read in the tele-
graphic headings, "Great indignation of Queen
Victoria," and find that this excitement re-
lates, not to the tremendous Irish problem and
the threatened dismemberment of her empire,
but to the hesitation of certain courts of
Europe to accord to Prince Henry Something-
or-other, her latest son-in-law, the title of "His
Royal Highness!"—T. W. H., in Harper's
Bazar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE CARY FAMILY.

THE POET SISTERS.

	No names are better known to the school
children of Cincinnati perhaps than the names
—Alice and Phoebe Cary; yet it may be that
many of the children do not realize the fact
that the two sisters who wrote so much of the
poetry read and recited in the schools were
born and grew up to girlhood right near Cin-
cinnati—within three miles, perhaps, of the
city's present limits. The "brown house low
and small" in which they were born is gone to
decay, and only a sunken place in the ground
marks the spot where it stood. The "fruitful
apple and cherry trees which grew so
close they nearly pushed their thrifty boughs
through the attic window and shook their
fruit upon the mossy roof; the luxriant sweet-
brier which grew beneath the window, 
the small garden with its two straight rows of 
currant bushes and bed of vegetables on either
side, the rose bushes and thriving peach tree, 
shading a row of beehives, and its withered
mate suuporting a fragrant hop vine" described
by Phoebe, are all gone; as is also the "path
of blue flag-stones which led to a well of cool, 
unfailing water." The well is still there, but
unused, and covered with rails and boards;
cedar trees and bushes have grown up all
around the well, as if to protect it.
	The old "ample, weather-beaten barn, the
busy haunt of the restless swallows and quiet, 
comfortable doves, and in all seasons the
never-failing resort for children," has left no
trace of itself. But the oak tree which, Phoebe
said, "had been kindly spared from the forest
when the clearing was made for the house," in
1814 or '15, still "throws its thick, cool shad-
ows over the road."
	Alice Cary was born on the 26th day of
April, 1820. Her sister, Phoebe, was born
September 4, 1824. In early life their parents
were very poor and the sisters had to do their
reading, studying and writing at night, after
the day's work was done. The country was
new, no railroads, telegraphs, telephones, 
libraries, to aid them. But few books and
papers found their way to them, and the
schools were poor, and generally only kept
during the winter, when the road (a mile and
a quarter long) to the school house was rough
and muddy. This school-house—a little one-
roomed brick building—stood until a few
years ago, and the sycamore tree which Alice
planted, near by, still grows.
	The Carys built a new dwelling house in
1832, in which, as Alice said, "the faimily ex-
pected to see the beginning of better times, 
but saw nothing but trouble and sorrow." This
house still stands, and is occupied by Warren
Cary, a brother—a hale, kind man of fifty-
nine years, who ever seems willing and glad
to show to visitors the places of interest made
sacred by the verses of his two gifted sisters. 
	Another brother, Asa, the constant com-
panion and playmate of Phoebe in childhood


[Column 2]

days, lives across the road (Hamilton Pike)
from the old home. Alice and Phoebe left
the childhood home and went to New York in
1850 and began their literery life in earnest
papers all over the country had already con-
tained fragments of poetry from their pens, 
but the first novel written by Alice, entitled, 
"Hager, a Story of To-day," appeared in the
Cincinnati Commercial in 1851-2. After
that the Cary sisters soon became well-known
writers, and their home was the favorite re-
sort of the literati.
	Both sisters died in 1871, and are buried side
by side in Greenwood Cemetery, N. Y.
	A Mr. Alexander Swift, who had in early
life married a sister, Susan Cary, and after
her death wedded yet another sister, Almina
Cary, started, a scheme a few years ago to fur-
nish the old home on College Hill with all the
rich and tasteful furniture which adorned the
New York home, and keep it ever as a memo-
rial place. He bought the "Cary place" for
that purpose, but the furniture belonged to his
daughter Alice, "Little Alice," who had mar-
ried a Mr Clymer. Mr. Clymer and his
father-in-law had a falling out, and he refused
to give up the furniture, and has it with him
in Pensylvania, saving it for his children, he
says.
	Many persons from all over the country,
especially from New York, visit the "Cary
place," and the verses of the two gifted
daughters of Ohio are sung in the churches,
recited in the schools by old and young.
	In the College Hill Cary graveyard, not
far away and also close to the pike lies buriedChristopher Cary, the Grandfather, who was
born in Windsor. Ct., 1763; died in Cincinnati,
February 6, 1837.  There are buried there,
too, several revolutionary soldiers; one, a
Henry Deats, was a soldier of 1776; died
August 20, 1843, in the nineteenth year of his
age.  Another, James Keniston, who served
five years' active service in the war for freedom
the tombstone says.  Many of the Carys sleep
here, but the immediate relatives, except the
grandfather, have been removed to Spring
Grove.—Commercial Gazette,
	E. S. D.


PICKING OUT GOOD ORANGES.

	To very many an orange is an orange, the
only variation distinguishable being in size
and corresponding price, while those who
know the difference between "Florida," "Se-
ville," and "Messina" oranges are considered
experts. The "Florida catechism" tells us
better than that. We learn from it that there
are "over thirty" varieties of sweet oranges,
not to mention the "natural stock," which is
a larger and handsomer fruit than the sweet
orange, and is excellent for orangeade and
marmalade, but, being very sour is seldom
shipped North. The medium sizes are apt to
be the choicest, and "probably the very sweet-
est orange that is marketed is the rusty coated
and rather ill-looking orange, which might be
considered inferior by an amateur." Further-
more, "the way to detect oranges is to 'heft'
them in your hands; pick out the thin skined
heavy fruit, and you are all right." The light-
weight fruit is apt to be juiceless, a condition
caused either by a slight freezing while on the
tree, or, more probably, by the poverty of the
soil in which it grew.
	All this applies to the sweet oranges. The
"kid glove" oranges are grown in Florida
from two stocks brought, respectively, from
China and Tanglers. Hence they are called
Mandarin and Tangerine oranges. Both are
small; the skin is loose and easily removed, and
the sections fall apart so readily that a lady
can eat without soiling her gloves; hence the
name.
	Some other interesting bits of information


may be picked out from this "Catechism."  It
is not generally known, for instance, that "an
orange that is entirely dead ripe in December
will hang on the tree until March, and is
ready at any time to be picked and shipped;" 
while so far from deteriorating, "the longer
they hang on the trees the sweeter they grow,"
and Florida oranges, purchased in February
and March, are therefore apt to be better
than those procured early in the season.  Again
the notion that to know what an orange is
really like, one must go where the oranges
grow appears to be a popular fallacy, as wel
are told that "the orange picked from the tree
is no riper or better than the orange on the
fruit stall in the North."—Philadelphia En-
quirer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME DECORATIONS.

	Home-Made Hanging Baskets.—Take an old
tin two-quart basin; paint it inside so that it
will not rust; cover the outside with putty. 
Split peach stones and stick the parts into the
putty; after the putty hardens, varnish the
outside.  Fill the basket with earth, and plant
in it such vines or flowers as fancy may dic-
tate. 
	Fans.—Palm leaf fans are covered with silk
or cretonne, and have a loose piece of the same
material attached so as to form a bag.  There
are pompons around the edge at regular dis-
tances.  They are hung against the wall, 
handle upward, and serve as receptacles for
odds and ends.  The outsides are painted;
gilded, or covered with silk or satin, fitting 
tightly. 
	Flowers at Table.—Their beauty and frag-
rance add not a little to the pleasure of the
table hour.  A large, fragrant bouquet takes the
place of an extra dish.  And nothing is so
cheap as flowers.  During a considerable part
of the year they cost absolutely nothing.  It is 
the sweetest pleasure to grow them.  And it is
surprising to find how cheaply a small con-
servatory may be managed.


Mrs. Bancroft, the wife of the historian, is
said to be preparing a volume of her reminis-
cences and experiences.  As she was a belle at
Washington sixty years ago, and has seen
many of the best people and places at home
and abroad, she has the materials for an un-
commonly interesting book. 
	Mlle. Benoit, a young vendean lady who
lately took her medical degree, is now ap-
pointed medical examiner of girls throughout
the municipal schools of Paris.  It is the busi-
ness of Mlle. Benoit to see that girls are not
overworked, and that they get through their
studies under sanitary conditions. 
	The woman suffragists of Iowa have great
reason to hope, that the bill for municipal
suffrage will be carried by the L[-]gislature
this winter.  The governor has recommended
it.  The attorney-general supports: it.  The
prohibitory party has adopted it.  Leading,
papers in that S[-]ate advocate it.  The suffra-
gists petition and work for it.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	For rough hands use lemon juice. 

	Tepid milk and water without soap will clean oil cloth.
	
Mince Meat Without Liquors.—Use three howls of meal,
six of apple, one of suet, one of raisins, one of citron, 
three of molasses, one of appl[-] jelly or any other sour
fruit juice, and spices. 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs.—Take two quarts of milk, 
from one and a half to two teacupfuls of rice, one cupful
of sugar, a cupful of raisins, a piece of butter the size of
an egg, and a little nutmeg.  Bake the pudding two hours.


Cologne Water.—Use oil of lavender one drachm, oil
of bergamot one drachm, oil of lemon two drachms, oil of
rosemary two drachms, fifty drops of tincture of musk,
eight drops of oil of cinnamon, eight drops of oil of cloves,
and one pint of alcohol.
	Fruit Cake. Two cupfuls of butter, three of sugar, and
three and one-half cupfuls flour, eight eggs, one pound of
raisins, one pound of citron, one teaspoonful of cloves, a
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg or a little mace, and
one gill of brandy or milk.
	Tapioca Pudding.—Soak two-thirds of a cupful of
tapioca over night, in one quart of milk; then add three
beaten eggs, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, butter the size of
an egg, one whole lemon, grated; after baking for three
quarters of an hour, serve the noodles with milk or
cream.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Amanda M. Matticc, born December 4th, 1869, in
Porterville, Morgan Co., Utah. Died at Pima, Graham
Co., Arizona, November 5th, 1885, of typhoid malaria.
	She was a young lady of refined habits, ever willing to
do her duty in the Y. L. M. I. A., of which she was a
worthy member, also an affectionate and dutiful daughter.
		RHODA E. FOSTER, 
		LOUISA JOHOSON,
		PERMELIA A. RANSOME.

	Now her earthly toils are over,
		She is free from care and pain,
	Though we miss her, sadly miss her,
		Our loss is her eternal gain.

Pima, Jan. 31st, 1886.


OBITUARIES.

	Sister Betsy Crane, of Provo, Utah, departed this life on
the 29th of December, 1885. Deceased was born March
29th, 1830, at Andover, Hampshire, England, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1882. She was a faithful member and a
teacher in the Fourth Ward Relief Society, which, on her
demise, passed oppropriate resolutions.

	DIED, in Centerville Ward, Davis Co., Utah, January
4th, 1886, of consumption, Thirza Jane, the eldest and
dearly beloved daughter of Alwood and Ann Elizabeth
Brown, born at Walton, Derbyshire, England, September
13th, 1870. With her parents, came to Utah in 1872.
Modest and unassuming in her manners, she was truly be-
loved by all who knew her. Though greatly afflicted from
her infancy, she bore all without a murmur. She died in
full faith of the Gospel, and in the hope of a glorious
resurrection. The Primary Association passed resolutions
of respect.
		OLIVE CLEAVELAND, Secretary.

	DIED, at Richfield, Severe Co., on the 5th of December,
Augusta J. Westman, eldest daughter of Peter E. and
Johanna M. Westman, aged fourteen years, eight months
and twenty-four days. She was on extraordinary girl of
her age. Her greatest ambition was to gain knowledge
and do good to others She acted as a leading member in
the Primary Association since its organization, and was
Assistant Secretary. In the Y. L. M. I. A. and Sunday
School she was a most energetic member, as well as Secre-
ary of the Silk Association. Resolutions were adopted,
expressing, in the highest terms, the worth in which de-
ceased was held by her associates.	M. A.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
		
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[depiction of a hand and finger pointing to the right] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[in the center is an ink drawing of a domestic sewing table and machine. There are columns of text running vertical on either side.]

[Column to the left of the drawing]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple! 
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Column to the right of the drawing]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY, 
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
	
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPRORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[depiction of hand and finger pointing to the right] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
	
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

