VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1885.	No. 5.


THE BEGINNING AND THE END.

Dark clouds have gather'd aft and fore—
The lightnings flash, the thunders roar—
The fierce blasts sweeping here and there,
The stately forest trees uptear,
While raging elements at war,
The lovely face of nature mar.

"Offences must needs come"—but lo!
God has pronounced a telling woe
"On them by whom they come"—the evil
Who choose and love to serve the devil.

But there remains a glorious rest
For those by wickedness oppress'd—
For all the faithful Saints of God,
Who own His hand and kiss the rod;
All who in faithfulness abide,
With texture and with heart-strings tried;
E'en such as now in sorrow mourn
Their sires and husbands ruthless borne,
Unstain'd with guilt or crime, to dwell
Within a prison's loathsome cell.

Ye Saints of God, fear not—stand fast,
Nor cringe nor cower before the blast;
And Oh, be wise, and understand
The treach'rous kiss and velvet hand,
Which proffer life and liberty
At cost of your integrity.
You'd better risk the lion's den,
Or the thrice-heated furnace; then
On Israel's God you can depend,
Be true, and God will be your friend,
And you far better sacrifice
Your mortal life, than jeopordize
Your ALL—yes, ALL will be at stake,
If you your sacred covenants break;
And mark! this demon-like ordeal,
God will o'errule for Zion's weal.

Prosperity has never served
To sift out those who heedless swerved
From duty—those whose lives were spent
In carving their aggrandizement,
Or, pampering a morbid taste,
Let time and talents go to waste;
The hypocrite, with cordial kiss,
More dang'rous than the serpent's hiss—
The fawning sycophant, whose smile
Is fashion's trade mark, to beguile,
And for this purpose, God will use
Those whom the rights of man abuse.

	The reckless crusade will not cease,
Nor will the righteous dwell in peace,
Till all the hypocrites, with fear,
Dismay and trembling disappear;—
Till lying hordes, in silent gloom,
With traitors, meet their horrid doom—
Till Freedom, Truth and Justice reign.
And equal rights for all sustain;—
Till all true Saints, as one, unite
To serve the Lord with mind and might.
Then will the powers of Heav'n come down
And Zion's courts with glory crown.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Logan City, 24th July.


[Column 1]

AN ADDRESS.

To the Latter-day Saints in the Rocky Moun-
tain Region and throughout the world:

	As this is the anniversary of the arrival of
the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley under the
direction of President BrighamYoung, we
haye thought it a proper and fitting time to
address you briefly.

[Column 2]

	We came here as exiles thirty-eight years ago,
driven from our lands and homes, our Temple
and City of Nauvoo. We came to find an
asylum in this, the then American desert, and,
far from what is termed civilization, to try to
establish homes and seek that protection
among the red men of the wilderness that was
denied us, because of our religion, in the
United States. There was no other reason
at that time assigned for our expulsion but
our religion. Since then we have been re-
markably blessed by the Almighty in the ex-
tension of our settlements, in the building of
our cities, in the erection of our Temples, in
the introduction of education in all its vari-
ous forms, in our agricultural, manufacturing
and mercantile pursuits, and in the general
development of the resources of the country.
Under the blessings of the Almighty, and
through His guidance and protection, we have
been enabled to make the wilderness and soli-
tary places glad and the desert to blossom as
the rose; and through a spirit of industry,
perseverance and frugality we have been pros-
pered exceedingly in all our settlements.
That which was originally intended by our
enemies for our destruction has been made,
through the blessing of the Almighty, to re-
dound to our peace and happiness, and to our
establishment as a happy people throughout
these valleys—a people from whose family
altars continually ascend praise and adoration
to the Most High for the great blessings which
He has conferred upon us. We feel that unto
God alone and to obedience to His laws are
we indebted for the rich and varied blessings
with which we are surrounded.
	On this, the anniversary of the arrival of
the Pioneers in this Valley of Salt Lake, it is
fitting that we should thus publicly acknowl-
edge the hand of God; and while we at pres-
ent are in circumstances that are painful and
that have been brought about by the action
of inconsiderate, unreflecting, and, in many
instances, wicked and unscrupulous men, some
of whom are officials, yet we have never felt
like wavering in our fidelity to our govern-
ment, nor like ignoring the principles of equal
rights guaranteed by that sacred palladium of
human liberty—the Constitution of the
United States. Our motto always has
been, is now, and we hope always will be, as
expressed in the Declaration of Independence:
"That all men are created equal and are en-
dowed by their Creator with certain inaliena-
ble rights;" and that they have the right to
"life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
We are filled with regret when we see steps
taken by those in authority, who ought to
know better, to shackle the human mind and
thought, to bring American citizens into bon-
dage, and to pass and maintain laws that are
violative of every constitutional right. His-
tory bears ample testimony to the fact that in
past times no man's property, life or liberty
was safe in the hands of judges who sat upon
the bench and imagined they had a mission to
perform, and who, to accomplish their ends,
had recourse to packed juries.
	The history of Utah, during the past few
months, illustrates the same truth. The au-
thority of the Government is being made use
of, not to protect, but to harass, to prosecute,
persecute and destroy the most honorable and
upright of the land. Families are dissevered
and broken up, the most sacred ties are rent
asunder, homes are made desolate and many

[Column 3]

of our leading men languish in prisons among
thieves, murderers and criminals of the worst
description. Our cities, towns and villages
are infested with spotters, deputy marshals,
informers and all those questionable characters
who have found employment under tyrannical
and despotic governments in other lands and
in darker ages. To see the great principles of
human liberty thus ruthlessly trampled under
foot has caused us to feel sorrowful in our
hearts for this mighty nation cannot follow the
example of other powers who have, through
pride, maladministration of the laws and a
disregard of human rights, fallen into decay
and been overthrown, without meeting a simi-
lar fate.
	It was doubtless with these feelings of sor-
sow for the degeneracy which could permit
such outrages that some of our fellow-citizens
thought proper on the 4th of July to place a
few flags at half mast. Liberty was
stricken down, pierced in her vitals by the
hands of those who should be her protectors
and guardians. The just, the upright, the virtu-
ous and the honorable have been and are being
incarcerated in prisons under the forms and
color of law. And without dishonor to the
flag, what more fitting mode could citizens
adopt of exhibiting their grief at the con-
dition of affairs? To place the flag at half-
mast is the recognized symbol of grief through-
out Christendom. As free men they thought,
we suppose, they had the right to thus ex-
hibit their sorrow for the existence of the
evils from which they suffer, and not hypo-
critically indulge in laudations while upwards
of 200,000 American citizens are practically
denied the rights contended for in the Declara-
tion of Independence. Must a free people be
brought into such a state of servitude that
they cannot express their feelings in a custom-
ary way? Must they be bound, fettered and
chained, and then be gagged so as not to be
heard? Must they cover their manacles with
flowers, or wrap their fetters with cloths, lest
the clanking sound unpleasantly in the ears
of their tyrants, or free men be aroused to re-
volt at the spectacle? Tyrants and their apol-
ogists may attempt to make such action appear
disloyal; but we have not so learned the
principles of freedom. A condition of affairs
exists in this Territory which, when under-
stood, every lover of human rights must con-
demn; and in behalf of ourselves, in behalf of
our wives and children, in behalf of the Con-
stitution of the United States, and in behalf
of the principles of human rights and liberty
in this land and throughout the world, we en-
ter our solemn protest against such iniquitous
acts as are being perpetrated here. While we
do this we wish it to be distinctly understood
that we have no controversy with the Republic
as a nation, but that those who, sitting in high
places and administering the laws, are guilty
of out-rageous acts of oppression toward their
fellow-citizens.
	Millions of the people of this nation are de-
ceived by the false representations of religious
bigots and political tricksters, who, when they
shall know the truth, will be as much disgust-
ed at this outrageous crusade against the princi-
ples of human freedom as we now are.
	In reviewing the past thirty-eight years, what
abundant causes we have for thanksgiving and
praise! Every conceivable slander and false-
hood has been circulated concerning us and
our religion. Our enemies have endeavored


[Column 1]
to make the world believe that we ought to be
destroyed, and they have invoked every earth-
ly power within their reach to accomplish
this. But how marvelously God has wrought?
Time after time it has seemed to all human
vision that our destruction was inevitable, and
our enemies have rejoiced at the prospect.
But God has not forgotten Zion nor the prom-
ises He has made. He permits the wicked to
exercise their agency, and their acts are the
means of testing and proving His people.
But there are limits beyond which they can-
not go. They cannot interfere with His
designs, nor destroy His work. He controls
all their acts for His glory and out of seeming
evil He brings forth abundant salvation. Our
very recent experience shows us that there is
no cloud but has a silver lining. In our past
experience we have often had reason to feel
the truth of the words of the poet, that
	Behind a frowning providence
	He hides a smiling face.
In our present trials we shall have a similar
experience.
	Zion will emerge from them stronger and
purer and every way better qualified to cope
with and overcome the difficulties and obstacles
yet to be encountered. Our trust is not in
numbers, but in the strength and protection
of Israel's God, who controls all the millions
of the world; and puts down one and sets up
another according to the counsel of His own
will.
	If we can only manage to observe His law
and keep His commandments, He will protect
us "while grass grows or water runs," while
sun, moon and stars exist, or the earth and
heavens endure, and when there shall be a
"new heaven and a new earth whereon dwelleth
righteousness." The Saints if faithful to
their covenants, their wives and posterity,
shall enjoy them again, and possess them while
the celestial worlds progress in their eternal
spheres.
	We have been very much pleased at the
heroic conduct and honorable course of our
brethren and sisters who have had to endure
the insults and outrages perpetrated by the
present crusaders. The conduct of the Saints
under these trying circumstances has been
eminently proper. If the nation can bear and
put up with such infamies as have been wit-
nessed in these mountains, we can. We can-
not, however, at the behest of man, lay aside
those great principles that God has communi-
cated to us, nor violate those sacred and
eternal covenants which we have entered into
for time and eternity. It is admitted as a
fundamental principle that the States shall
make no law "impairing the validity of con-
tracts." If this is a correct principle concern-
ing dollars and cents, how much more is it con-
cerning the eternal happiness and salvation of
man!
	﻿While we always have a disposition to "ren-
der unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's"
we feel it indefinitely more important "to rend-
der unto God, the things that are God's" We
can afford to live for our religion, and if needs
be, to die for it; but we cannot afford to vio-
late our covenants, nor to prejudice our souls
before God; and we call upon the Saints, as we
have done heretofore, to lean upon the Lord
while passing through these afflictions which
are now being so unmercifully heaped upon
us by implacable and deadly foes, who are
seeking to crush out from our souls the princi-
ples of human liberty and to place us in a
condition of serfdom and bondage. Our hope
and trust are in the living God, and He will
come to our deliverance in His own due time
and will scatter the en[-]mies of Israel. There-
fore be not faint hearted for God will defend
the right. Live your religion, be humble, be
virtuous, be honorable, be honest, preserve
your integrity and keep the commandments of

[Column 2]
God, and He will sustain you in time and
throughout all the eternities to come, Zion
shall yet arise and shine and the glory of God
will rest upon her. The Saints shall see the
salvation of Israel and their enemies over-
thrown. They shall join in sacred songs and
anthems in praise and great glory to the Most
High, saying, Hallelujah! Hallelujah! for the
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth, and will reign
until he has put all enemies under His feet.
Therefore rally around the standard of free-
dom, uphold the flag of the Republic, sustain
the principles of human liberty and
maintain inviolate the Constitution
of the United States and all laws in accord-
ance therewith, and God shall smile upon you,
and you and your generations shall be blessed
in time and throughout the eternities that are
to come. We must still bear the same record
that we have heretofore borne to you: woe to
them that fight against Zion, for God will
fight against them.
	Although we have changed our office from
time to time we have been able to perform our
duties, with the exception of public addresses, 
as much as when at home. How long it shall
be the good pleasure of God, our Heavenly
Father, that we shall continue in our present
condition mattereth not. We hope always to
be resigned to His providence and to accept
at His hands all that it may be His good
pleasure to call us to endure, whether pros-
perity, or adversity, freedom or imprisonment,
life or death.
	With kind regards, we subscribe ourselves,
your brethren and fellow-laborers in the New
and Everlasting Covenant; 
		JOHN TAYLOR.
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
	Of the First Presidency of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	July 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE FADED WRAPPER.

	"Are you sorry that father has gone away to
stay over night, Alice?" said one of Mrs.
Montgomery's children to his sister. "It rains
so that no one will call; and now mother will
wear that faded wrapper all day. I heard her
tell Barbara she should have a good long day
for sewing. She doesn't think it worth while
to set even the dining room table just for us:"
	"Don't you wish she would spill ink on that
dress, Philip?" was the answer—"then she
wouldn't wear it any more."
	'No indeed, I don't want it any worse, for
she would wear it just the same rainy days and
when papa is away."
	Now mamma, in the next room, heard this
discussion of the children, and arose to take a
survey of herself in the looking-glass. It was
not a very pleasing picture that the polished
surface gave back to her view.
	"Now Harry Warren's mother," said Philip,
"is always dressed nicely, any time of the
day."
	She wears such pretty bows on her hair and
neck." said Alice. "But she isn't half so
pleasant as our mother," she added loyally, "if
she does look prettier."
	The mother's eyes glistened as she looked
down on the old wrapper.
	"To be compared to Aunt Warren," she
thought, "and by my own children, too. Who
would have thought they were such sharp little
things? They notice every trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's spirit was quite stirred.
She would not allow such a rival, she said to
herself, if she could eclipse her. "You shall
be disapointed about the old wrapper, for
once, Mr. Philip," she added smiling; so she
took a soft white dress, just the thing to en-
liven a dull day. Then she puffed her hair in
her prettiest style, and proceeded to dress her-
self with unusual care. The delicate lace col-

[Column 2]

lar was adorned with a bow of palest pink,
and her hair was tied back with a ribbon to
match.
	It is wonderful how these simple additions
to the toilet changed her whole appearance. A
little taste does much for a woman's toilet, and
yet how small, often, is the cost. A simple
knot of violet or crimson velvet will make a
dull dress look bright and even elegant. As
a great painter said, "trifles make perfection,
but perfection is no trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's face wore a brighter look
than usual that day, as she entered the nurs-
ery. Her dress had actually raised her spirits;
but she was hardly prepared for the burst of
admiration that greeted her. It is not often
that compliments are sincere and heart-felt
as were those of her little ones that day. But
her children's tones quickly changed to one of
anxiety. "Are you going away anywhere,
mamma?" they asked directly.
	"No, dears, I am going to sew on the ma-
chine all day; so we can have a nice time to-
gether."
	Little Alice hung over her chair a mintue,
admiringly, and fingered her buttons, as she
said, with a smile of deep content in her eye.
	"You look nice, mamma."
	Mrs. Montgomery smiled, as she threaded
the needle of the machine, while Philip added
proudly:
	"She looks nicer than Harry's mother, even
when she has her silk dress on."
	That was reward enough: she had eclipsed her
rival.
	"I'll remember this day's lesson," said the
mother, in her own heart, and she did remem-
ber it.
	The rainy day dress was doomed, and they
helped to rip it up with sincere pleasure. It
made excellent linings for a new one, and it
often preached its old sermon over, as it hung
wrong side out in the closet.
	Mothers, when you allow yourselves sloven-
ly ways among the little ones, in the seclusion
of the nursery, remember there's a child there
"a takin' notes." Those notes will be read
even when your head lies low. Of all the
bright pictures that hang on memory's wall,
there is none to me so fair as a sweet loving
mother, whose appearance was always neat and
tasteful, even in working dress. Children may
love an untidy mother, after a fashion but
they can never respect her. She cannot keep
the hold on them in after years that one of
the opposite habits possesses. Besides, if you are
untidy yourself, they will probably grow up
to imitate you. Don't neglect the details of
dress, that add so much to appearance, be-
cause there will be "no one about but the
children."— Wood's Magazine.


“Omaha, Nebraska, has followed the ex-
ample of Wyoming Territory, and sets the
country an honest example, by ordering that
the pay of women teachers shall hereafter be
the same as that paid to men of the same
grade in the schools.”
	The Manchester Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, “Now that the Franchise Act is passed,
and the Seats Bill has also received the Royal
Assent, those members whose primary object
has been to secure this large measure of repre-
sentation for men, may be urged to continue
their efforts in favor of the enfranchisement of
women.”
	The Woman’s Franchise Bill has been
moved in the House of Lords more than
once. The last occasion was June 23rd, when
Lord Denman brought it forward; by many
this was looked upon as an inopportune time,
as it was just as the Peers were about to ad-
journ. It still remains, however, on the order
book of the House of Lords among the Bills
awaiting second reading.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEEDTIME AND HARVEST.

In springtime a dearly loved friend and I
Planted seeds in hope of the blooms by and bye;
We planted and planned day after day,
Not in joy of the work, but in hope alway.
Ere the summer came my dear friend was gone
Forever from earth, and I, alone,
Tended and watched for the flowers to bloom— 
I gathered and laid them upon her tomb.

A mansion was builded, strong and fair,
And finished and furnished with greatest care;
A child lit a match—a fire was made,
And the grand new house in ashes laid.
The man, in building, spent all his wealth,
And the work and worry ruined his health—
By a child's little act so much undone,
The work of years in a moment gone.

I noticed a neighbor over the way,
So hopefully busy day after day,
Fashioning garments dainty and neat,
A smile on her face tender and sweet.
One morning I looked—crape on the door
Told me I'd watch the worker no more;
White crape and black—child and mother gone,
The dainty, neat garments would never be worn.

Two little birds in an old apple tree
Builded a nest just as nice as could be,
What became of the nest no one could tell,
Nor what cruel fate to the birds befell;
So blithesome and happy, the nest was begun,
Singing so cheerful till it was done,
Then when ,twas ready, all was o'er,
The little birds came to the nest no more.

So it hath been and will ever be,
None can tell the future for you or me;
Our flowers of hope so often bloom,
And are gathered only to deck a tomb.
Let's joy in improving life while we may,
Not worry and work for a future day;
Our future is with a Higher Power,
Though we build, or make, or but plant a flower.
		E. S. D.
Wyoming, O.


LINES.

[WTITTEN FOR THE TWENTY FOURTH OF JULY, 1880]

In eighteen hundred forty-seven,
	The Saints were led by Brigham Young;
And guided by the God of heaven,
	In Utah's valleys found a home.

Their Patriarch and Prophet slain—
	Driven from their homes by wicked men—
They wandered on the desert plains,
	Nor thought to see Nauvoo again,

But the great God of heaven led
	Them by the right way to this land,
And, by His wondrous power, He fed
	And guided them by His right hand.

And on July the Twenty Fourth
	They reached the vale of Great Salt Lake;
And here their leader said "We'll rest,"
	And build up some of Zion's stakes.

They planted here the "stars and stripes,"
	Upon the soil of Mexico,
And in the valleys hoped to rest,
	No more pursued by cruel foe.

The desert, by their hands redeemed,
	Soon blossomed like the beauteous rose;
And plenty in their homes abound,
	While they had rest from cruel foes.

Not long do they in peace possess
	The blessings by sore suffering gained;
Their foes pursue, with false pretense,
	To drive them from their homes again.

But God o'er-ruled, and, by His will,
	The scourge designed a blessing proved;
And He protects and guides them still,
	Tho' earth and hell with rage are moved.

Their homes extend from north to south.
	Throughout these vales, on every hand;


Their noble sons with joy go forth
	To preach the truth in every land.

They gather in the honest poor,
	To share the blessings God has given,
And be prepared their Lord to meet,
	When He shall come in clouds of heaven.

They will obey the laws He gives,
	In spite of earth and hell combined;
Even the law of plural wives,
	That they eternal lives may find.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
We meet, to celebrate this day,
	With joy and praise to Jesus' name,
Who led us forth by the right way,
	That we our mountain homes might gain.

Then hail! all hail! the Twenty Fourth,
	With love and joy let each heart sing,
And tune their voices long and loud,
	With praises to our God and King.
		T. L. H.


ABOUT WOMEN.

	An old Pennsylvania Dutchman, now
gathered to his forefathers, invariably summed
up his opinion of womankind in season and
out of season in these three words: "Women
are fools."
	In this he differs somewhat from one of
Dickens' heroes, who is chivalrously made to
say: "Rum creeturs is wimmin"	*	*
	1. Isabella of Spain comprehended and
sympathized with the plans of Columbus, and
aided him to accomplish his discoveries; there-
fore, "Women are fools. They cannot grasp
great theories."
	2. Caroline Herschel performed drudgeries
of calculation to help her brother, and also
made independent discoveries; hence. "Women
are fools. They cannot have truly scientific
bias."
	3. Lucretia Mott preached the Gospel of
"Liberty of the individual"—[-]odily, mental,
spiritual—to the last hour of h[--] g[-]andly
courageous life; ergo: "Wom[-]n [-]re [-]ools. They
are bound by priestcraft and superstition."
	4. Fanny Mendelssohn composed many of
the works attirbuted to her brother Felix; so:
"Women are fools. They cannot grasp great
music principles." [N. B.—I think Fanny
was a fool in this case not to take all the credit
that belonged to her.]
	5. Mrs. Stowe did more by her pen than any
ten men by their speeches to abolish African
slavery in this country, which proves that
"Women are fools. They are not capable of
judgment on great questions."
	6. Charlotte Bronte wrote an immortal novel
while toiling in the gloomy kitchen at Haworth;
hence, "Women are fools. They can only
think of but one thing at a time."
	7. Mrs. Roebling, during her husband's illness,
carried on stupendous calculations without
which the Brooklyn bridge could not have been
built. Evidently "Women are fools. They
have no head for the higher mathematics. Q.
E. D."
	8. Anna E. Carroll planned a vast campaign
during the civil war, which threw victories in-
to the hands of our Northern generals and
virtually saved the Union; hence, "Women are
fools. They have no military genius."
	9. Mary A. Livermore, in the same way,
did priceless work at the head of the Sanitary
Commission, thus showing that "Women are
fools. They have no executive talent."
	10. Mrs. Frank Leslie paid off a $50,000
debt in less than six months after assuming
control of the great publishing business left
by her husband, which makes it plain that
"Women are fools. They have no financial
ability."
	11. The Elder Mrs. Button, wife of the
senior partner of the Germantown Woolen


Mills, invented an improvement to a machine
after her husband and others had given up in 
despair, showing conclusively that "Women
are fools. They have no mechanical turn."
	12. According to Wm. Shakespeare—though 
this may be a myth—a lady named Portia, in
a "learned doctor's" wig and gown, once con-
founded the elders and solved a knotty legal
problem with which the Venetian masculine
wits had vainly grappled; therefore, "Women
are fools. They are incapable of viewing any 
case in its legal aspects."--Ex.


LADIES PRIMROES LEGUE. 

	June 9th an inaugural meeting of the Grand
Council of the Ladies' Branch of the Primrose
League was held in the house of the Marquis
of Salisbury, 20 Arlington Street, London,
and was numerously attended by ladies of rank
and title. This branch of the Primrose League
is intended to be thoroughly representative.
Lord John Manners, M. P., occupied the posi-
tion of Chairman, and made some general ex-
planations as to the circumstances which had
given rise to the organized efforts that were
being made, and stated that 2,000,000 new
electors, for the most part necessarily ignorant
and impulsive, had, for the first time, been given
the franchise, that the old established ma-
chinery of conducting elections had been swept
away, and an entirely new element of activity 
in this direction was opened out.
	Lord G. Hamilton, M. P., in his remarks
said these ladies were not asked to take part
in the rough and tumble of the contest, nor to
become election agents, but to use their influ-
ence in the rural parts of the country in the
towns and villages. Lord Hamilton moved
"that the meeting, having heard the statement
of the object of the Primrose League, pledges
itself to promote those objects by every means
in its power." He then said, "The object of
this meeting and of those who were advocating
the Primrose League, was to secure, as far as
possible, the co-operation of the ladies of Eng-
land in the task of promoting those principles
which alone could secure the greatness and
prosperity of the empire."
	Sir Stafford Northcote M. P., rose to second
the resolution. Mr. A. J. Balfour, M. P., sup-
ported the resolution and it was unanimously
carred. Sir Henry Drummond Wolff, M. P.,
read the report of the Ladies' Grand Council,
which stated that it was but three months
since the idea first originated of forming this
committee, yet already 300 ladies were enrolled
as members, and 20 Habitations (as they are
called) had been formed. These are presided
over by ladies of title and influence.
	Sir Algernon Borthwick,in his remarks, said
this was the first instance in history where the
ladies of England had gathered together in
such extraordinary numbers to work for po-
litical purposes. Not only would they instruct
the youth of England—and Lord Beaconsfield
had told us "that the youth of a nation are the
trustees of posterity"—but they would assume
their natural and true position as upholders of
the throne, and guardians of the welfare of
the realm. The saying of Lord Beaconsfield,
repeated by Sir Algernon Borthwick, con-
tains so much meaning that it ought never
to be forgotten.


"Emma F. Carey has been reappointed 
prison commissioner of Massachusets by Gov.
Robinson."
	The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop
of London, Cardinal Manning, of the Romish
Church, and Samuel Mosley, liberal member
of Parliament, have consented to serve on the
committee to examine privately the evidence
on which the Pall-Mall bases its charges and 
to report conclusions to the public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	AUGUST 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
			PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July, “Pioneer day,” as it is desig-
nated by the Latter-day Saints, passed without the
least demonstration in Salt Lake City or any of
the adjoining towns. In some remote places where
the news of General Grant’s death did not reach
them in time, the exercises and amusements
planned for the day were carried out in the usual
style. In this city a Sunday School Jubilee had
been some time in preparation, and the children
anticipated a gala day, but there was no hesitation
on the part of the committee, and no objection
whatever made by the children when the sad
news reached here of General Grant's demise
with one accord it was immediately decided to
postpone the Jubilee indefinitely, and drafted the
following resolution, which was unanimously
adopted:
 	“Whereas, The announcement of the death of
General Grant has stricken every heart with grief,
causing a realization of the great loss sustained
by all, and
	 Whereas, The illustrious dead, when visiting 
Utah a few years ago, gazed with wonder and ad-
miration on the thousands of Sunday School
children who testified of their love and esteem for
him and manifested their wish to honor the presi-
dential head of a great nation by lining the streets
along which he drove, and greeting him as only
innocence can greet when greatness recognizes
and smiles upon purity; be it therefore
	Resolved, That the Sunday School Jubilee con-
templated for the 24th of July be indefinitely
postponed..”
		By Order of the Committee.

	No other public demonstration of any kind was
anticipated, though threats had been made by those
disposed to misconstrue every act and word of the
Mormon people of what would be undertaken on
that day, in case there was any indication on the
part of our people to celebrate. But their
mouths were closed and their wicked desires and
plans thwarted and overthrown when a national
sorrow fell upon all. The people who felt like
mourning before had now the opportunity to give
such public expression to their feelings as accord-
ed well with the sentiments expressed by raising
the flags at half-mast on the 4th of July. Governor
Murray, who had been strong in his denunciation
of half-masting on the Fourth, issued an official
proclamation, recommending  “that flags draped
in mourning be placed on all public buildings, and 
as far as practicable, on business houses, and on
the houses of the people,” etc., thus changing the
entire order of the day, as expected by those who
see so plainly the mote in the eye of another, but
have no idea or conception of the beam in their 
own.
	These people who see so much treason in the
doings of the Mormons, and are so anxious to
have them “wiped out,” had been calling upon the
military to be on hand on the 24th, in case they
could somehow or other provoke the Mormons

[Column 2]
into resenting any of their innumerable insults.
But they were foiled in their rich expectations of
creating a disturbance, in which they fondly hoped 
to figure largely as patriots and so on, and the fire
of their enthusiasm was considerably cooled down
when the proclamation of the Mayor and City
Council was issued, ordering all the saloons and
places where liquor could be obtained, to be closed
on that day.
	The day passed off quietly, and in the enjoy-
ment of home and the society of friends, one
could give vent to the peculiar feelings and emo-
tions that must necessarily well up in the hearts
of those who are under the ban of oppression now
brought to bear upon the Latterday Saints, even
upon those who have helped to pioneer the desert--
a day the people were wont to celebrate with festivi-
ties and rejoicings. But God moves in a mysteri-
ous way, and he knows how to temper the wind
to the shorn lamb, and He has established His
kingdom and given power to His Priesthood upon
the earth, and evil machinations of wicked men
cannot destroy that power and influence, nor hin-
der the growth of the work of God in these last
days, though they may harass and annoy the
Saints, and cause sorrow and grievous affliction 
to come upon them. The Saints who are in the
line of their duty will come off triumphant, and
whether in life or in death will have reason to re-
joice and acnowledge His hand in all things.


ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT.

	General U. S. Grant, a great military hero of
the late civil war, and ex-President of the United
States died at Mount Mac.Gregor, on the morning
of the 23rd of July last. His death had been an-
ticipated for some time, as his sufferings had been
very severe and of such a nature that human skill
could only afford temporary relief. The General
died surrounded by his loved ones, and in the full
enjoyment of the greatness he had himself
achieved. He had the unusual honor of being
twice elected to the highest position in the gift of
the people of this nation. But it was really his
military career that gave him the national popu-
larity, and which caused his election to the office
of chief Executive of the United States. He
distinguished himself notably as a leader and a
true and skillful General in several of the most
important engagements during the war of the re-
bellion. His name will be handed down to pos-
terity as one of the bravest and wisest who have
fought for their country in its time of need. His-
tory will do him justice, for he appears to have
been a man fully appreciated during his lifetime,
which is seldom the case even with those who
have been the greatest benefactors to their con-
temporaries and to posterity. 
	The book, upon which the grand old General
spent his last working hours, will, when completed,
be held as a treasure by the world, and future
generations will read it with interest, as well as
those who knew him in life. His memory will
thus be preserved fresh and green by his own
hands and brain. There is no doubt that he will
have a superb and costly monument erected in
his remembrance, for already it is practically
talked about. In foreign lands, as well as in our
own, he has received most marked honors and at-
tentions from crowned heads and military chief-
tains, as well as the mases of the people. The
brave General died with an honorable record,and
in full possession of the mental powers and attri-
butes that had won the distinction that became
him so well, to the last hours of his life.
	General Grant was born at Point Pleasant,
Ohio, April 17, 1822. He was descended from
Scotch ancestry, and possessed many enduring
qualities, which are inherent in the Scotch race. He
received his military education at West Point, and
although the training he obtained there would
serve him well in the places he had afterwards to


fill, yet thorough technical discipline and educa-
tion alone could never have elevated him to the
exalted rank he occupied in military and civil life
without indomitable energy and perseverance, as
well as superior wisdom and judgment, and in fact
what every successful leader must possess, in a 
greater or less degree—forethought and intui-
tion.
	Elaborate preparations are being made for the
burial of this national military hero, and several
different public places have been named as suitable
burial place for the remains of so great a man, but
it is now expected that he will be buried at River-
side Park, New York, and already there is talk of
changing its name to Grant Park. 
	Memorial services in his honor will be held in
all parts of the United States, and in Westminster
Abbey in England. In Salt Lake City, Liberty
Park was selected by the committee appointed
for the purpose, as being the most desireable place
for the memorial services in honor of General
Grant.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Secretaries of R. S., Y. L. and P. A. in
this Stake of Zion should remember that written
reports are expected from each branch by the res-
pective stake secretaries immediately. 

	THE address of Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Prest. 
of the Central Board of Y. L. M. I. A., is at No. 
158 W. Third South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
She gives her address because so many mistakes
have been made in the correspondence with the
Associations. 

	WE regret that we are compelled to leave, until
next issue, an announcement of a class in mid-
wifery by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, which is to com-
mence Oct. 3rd. Those wishing to join should
communicate with her verbally, or by letter; as
soon as possible. 

	THE conference of the Relief Society and Y. 
L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake will convene Sep-
tember 11th and 12th, at Manti. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hyde, President of the Relief Society in that
stake, desires that the secretaries will please for-
ward their reports not later than the 1st of Sep-
tember, to the Stake Secretary, Mary Hyde, Spring
City. 
	
	SYNOPSIS of semi-monthly meetings in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, annual meeting of Y. L.
M. I. A. in the 19th Ward, including the very able
address by Coun. Underwood, reorganization of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward and a notice
from one of the Primary Associations of the death
of two of its members, also editorial matter, left
over for want of space, but will appear in the
issue of August 15. 
	
	MONDAY, August 3rd, is general election day, 
and we hope and trust the largest number of votes
will be polled that have been cast in this Territory. 
The women of Utah who are entitled to the fran-
chise ought to make a good showing at this im-
portant period in the history of the Territory. Let
nothing hinder you from depositing your ballot
for the People's Party. Be sure and vote the
right ticket. No doubt the Liberals and Demo-
crats will hand their tickets out freely.


ON THE DEATH OF GENERAL 
	GRANT. 

	"Death thou art infinite—'tis life is little."

	Our flag is floating in the breeze half mast, with 
flowing crape attached to it.  The ex-President of 
the United States has passed to the common
bourne "whence no traveler returns."  Our spirits
as a people, are in unison with that semblance of 
mourning, for we are suffering persecution and
woe.  Our very children are mourning for their


[Column 1]
absent fathers, thrown into prison for a principle
of their religion; hence it has for us a speaking
application, and seems to acknowledge the cloud
that is hovering over our otherwise beautiful at-
mosphere. 
	We are prepared to mourn.  The heart's deep
fountain is full, and, therefore, is easily broken up, 
and tears fall readily.  My tears have fallen as I 
read the last scenes of the mighty dead, America's
great chieftain and renowned warrior, the earthly 
savior of his country, as his warlike achievements
testify; hence, the half-mast colors of our country
this day in silent eloquence proclaim his loss. He 
was one of those deep souls whose lives are ab-
sorbed in thinking.  Silence was his motto, when
he spoke it was to command obedience to the
plans he had concocted, which were framed to 
win. 
	In life, he was applauded and appreciated—not 
always the meed of the great.  This was amply
tested when on his circumnavigating trip; every-
where he received a royal welcome.  Royal salutes
announced the arrival of his vessel in the nations'
harbors. England was especially prominent in 
these royal demonstrations. When entering
Buckingham Palace the sovereign laid aside the
severe etiquette of centuries, and met him in the
vestibule at the "top of the stairs," and, herself, 
escorted him to the seat of honor prepared for 
him! Henri Quarte of Charlemagne could have 
received no greater national honor!—as a brother
sovereign he was entertained throughout the visit. 
Even his daughter, of eighteen only—when she
chose to visit England, shone by reflection from 
her mighty sire, and she was also received by a 
royal salute as soon as she entered the nationa
harbor as one born in the purple and draped with
royal ermine.  During her visit in England she
was also received with due honors at the Queen's 
drawing rooms.  Perhaps an American can scarce-
ly realize how very distingue all this is in the
appreciation of the English.  And perhaps they 
can; for I believe the grand old country is pretty
well understood in this enlightened 19th century. 
These honors were tendered to the daughter of 
the man England delighted to honor.  Some may
curl the lip at all this, but none will who have
ever experienced it, for it is always given in so 
grand, so noble, and so genial a manner, that I 
should pity the heart and brain that were not ig-
nited by it with all the understanding, and apprec-
ciation they were capable of. 
	Death, that grand leveller of all has now done
his work upon our ex-President.  Tears have been 
shed for the sufferings of his last days; he has
the sympathy of nations and of their crowned
heads; for the good and the noble among them 
(and they are not a few) realize more than is gener-
ally believed—how frail is the texture by which
they hold their eminence; and that at the termina-
tion of their longest reign, death and the grave
await them equally with the humblest of their
subjects. 
	The last words of Charles the First to his
young son, a few hours before his sad death, con-
stitute a short sermon that ought to be written in 
gold; also those of James the 2nd, the exiled
King of England.  Yes, indeed, even among
crowned heads we find the grandeur and nobility
of the Christian.  The thoughtless mind looks
upon their exalted position, with envy and repining
and often with doubt as to the justice of the "King
of Kings"—not considering that with all their
grand surroundings, they also must find happiness
within their own bosoms or they can never pos-
sess it.  The grandeur and the greatness of the
world cannot give it.  History shows what mar-
tyrs many of them have been, and often we read
how nobly they endured. 
	God is just and one day this will be demonstra-
ted to all. 
	But I lift up my eyes and see the half-mast
colors with their mournful accompaniment and

[Column 2]
my thoughts run back to my starting point.  The
American chieftain "sleeps well, after life's fitful
fever is ended."  If he has earned a crown, he
will assuredly wear one eternally, and that he may
attain to that and all its appendages, is the
heartfelt prayer of one who is a unit in the family
of God. 
	HANNAH T. KING. 
	July 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOGAN TEMPLE. 

	Pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of 
Incorporation, of "The Logan Temple Associa-
tion"  the directors of the same, prepared and
adopted a code of by-laws at a meeting recently
called for that purpose; these by-laws will more
thoroughly assist to carry into effect the object
and designs of the Association.  On Monday, 
July 13th, 1885, the annual meeting of the mem-
bers was held in the basement of the Logan Taber-
nacle at which the by-laws were read.  The re-
port of the directors was presented and received. 
It set, forth that the Trustee-in-Trust had conveyed 
the legal title of the Temple and grounds to the
Incorporation, that instructors of various branches
of learning had been appointed, viz:  James Z. 
Steward, theology; Apostle Moses Thatcher, Civil
Government; Wm. H. Apperley, Science and Lan-
guage; James A. Leishman, History; Charles W. 
Nibley, Domestic and Political Economy; John
E. Carlisle, Natural Philosophy.  It is expected
that classes will at once be formed in the forego-
ing departments and lectures delivered upon topics
embraced within their purview. 
	A lecture room has been fitted up in the temple, 
in which will assemble the various classes con-
templated from time to time, to take part in the
exercises that may be assigned them by their re-
spective instructors.  During the past year up-
wards of one hundred volumes of standard au-
thors, chiefly of an historical character, have been
collected, and an elegant home-made book case
provided for them.  This is a very fair beginning
for an excellent library, which will be indispen-
sable to the growth and development of the As-
sociation.
	The incorporation having no assets, it being
purely an institution of learning, and not one of
pecuniary profit, it is expected that the Saints
generally will contribute liberally for the further
improvement and adornment of the grounds, the
purchase of literary apparatus, and donate books
suitable to the character of the institution. 
	That an association of this character has been
established should call forth the aid and support
of the Saints, and is reason for gratification
among all lovers of learning.  It will open up a 
field of instruction which will be of incalculable
benefit to all who will take an interest in it.—Ex. 
	JAMES A. LEISHMAN, Secretary.


[Column 1]
	AUTOBIOGRAPHY

	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	On the 3rd of February, 1841, The Patri-
arch, Isaac Morley, came to our house and
gave us each a patriarchal, or father’s blessing.
Mine was as follows:
	“Sister Emily, I lay my hands upon thy
head, in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, and I
seal upon thy head a father’s blessing.  Not-
withstanding thou art an orphan child, the
heavens and the earth are stored with blessings
foy thee.
	Thou hast embraced the fulness of the ever-
lasting Gospel in the days of thy youth, and
in the morn of thy life; thy name is registered
in the heavens.  The angels rejoiced over thee
when thou wast born into the kingdom of thy

[Column 2]
Savior, and if thou wilt ever support the
principles that adorn thy sex, thy name shall
never be erased from the Lamb’s book of life.
	And if thou wilt ask thou shalt receive in-
telligence pertaining to the kingdom of God;
the heavens and the earth shall unbosom their
blessings unto thee; thou shalt have the bless-
ing and gift to speak in wisdom and act in
prudence; thy example shall be worthy of imi-
tation to the daughters of Zion; and if thou
wilt listen to the voice of wisdom length of
days shalt be given unto thee, and thou shalt
have the blessing to see the winding up scene
of this generation; peace and tranquility re-
stored to man.  Thy blessing shall be handed
down to thy posterity from generation to genera-
tion, and thou shalt have the blessing to return
to the land of thine inheritance.  And thou
shalt have the blessing to see Ephraim crowned,
and to wait upon the table in a day when a
feast of fat things are prepared.  Thou shalt
sing the song of the redeemed.  And I ask
God my Heavenly Father to enlighten thy
mind, to guide thee in the days of thy youth,
and lead thee in the path of piety and virtue
all the days of thy life, and when thy Savior
shall make His second advent crowns of glory
shall be sealed upon thy head, and let the hon-
or and glory be given to God and the Lamb,
forever and ever, amen and amen."
	Times were hard and we were very destitute,
having been robbed and driven from our
homes and possessions so many times, and hav-
ing had much sickness after we came to Nau-
voo, and being afflicted in various ways, conse-
quently we were reduced to extreme poverty.
Mother was good at turning her hand to al-
most anything.  She got an old stock, such as
men wore at their necks at that time, ripped it
up, to learn how it was made, and then obtained
a block and went to work making stocks to sell.
In that way she earned a little to keep her
family.  My sister Eliza and myself were the
oldest of the children, and it seemed necessary
that we should do something toward earning a
living. Eliza had learned the tailor’s trade
while in Far West, and was a good seamstress;
she had no difficulty in obtaining work; but I,
what could I do?  I had learned to wash dishes,
to sweep and scrub a puncheon floor, and such
like things, aud the only chance that seemed
to be for me was to go out to work.  We would
think and talk upon this subject day after day,
and l think I cried a little, for the thought of
having to leave home to me was terrible.
While things, with us were in this condition,
Sister Emma sent for me to come and live with
her and nurse her baby.  It seemed as if the
Lord had opened up my way, it was so unex-
pected, and nothing could have suited me bet-
ter, for tending babies was my delight.  My
sister Eliza, also, went there to live, which
made it pleasanter for me and more home-like.
Joseph and Emma were very kind to us; they
were almost like a father and mother, and I
loved Emma and the children, especially the
baby, little Don Carlos.
	They gave me the privilege of attending
a school that summer, taught by Brother and
Sister Howard Coray.  This was the last of
my going to school.  What little education I
have got I received in the log cabin schools, as
we were roaming about, being driven from
place to place; but I have gained an experience
that money cannot purchase.
	On the 15th of August, 1841, the baby, Don
Carlos, died.  John C. Bennett made it his
home at the Prophet’s house at this time. He
was thought to be quite a great man, and had
cnnsiderable influence for good; but afterwards
turned traitor, and sought to injure Brother
Joseph by publishing falsehoods.  He secretly
worked for his destruction, and once, when the
Nauvoo Legion were having a sham battle, he
laid his plan to have the Prophet slain, but
Brother Joseph detected it, and frustrated his
wicked design.


[Column 1]
	The first intimation I had from Brother
Joseph that there was a pure and holy order
of plural marriage, was in the spring of 1842,
but I was not married until 1843. I was
married to him on the 11th of May, 1843, by
Elder James Adams. Emma was present.
She gave her free and full consent. She had
always, up to this time, been very kind to me
and my sister Eliza, who was also married to
the Prophet Joseph with Emma's consent; but
ever after she was our enemy. She used every
means in her power to injure us in the eyes of
her husband, and before strangers, and in conse-
quence of her abuse, we were obliged to leave
the Mansion House, and expected to leave the
city to gratify her, but things were overruled
otherwise, and we remained in Nauvoo.  My
sister Eliza found a home with the family of
Bro. Joseph Cooledge, and I went to live with
Sister Sylvia Lyons. She was a good woman,
and one of the Lord's chosen few. Emma
about this time, gave her husband two other
wives—Maria and Sarah Lawrence.
	Early in the spring of 1843 the Young
Gentlemen and Ladies' Relief Society was or-
ganized. Bro. Joseph gives a short sketch of
the rise of that society. He says: "In the
latter part of January, 1843, a number of
young people assembled at the house of Elder
H. C. Kimball, who warned them against the
various temptations to which youth is exposed,
and gave an appointment, expressly for the
young, at the house of Elder Billings, and an-
other meeting was held in the ensuing seek at
Bro. Farr's school room, which was filled to
overflowing. Elder Kimball delivered ad-
dresses, exhorting the young people to study
the Scriptures and enable themselves to 'give
a reason for the hope within them,' and to be
ready to go on the stage of action, when their
present instructors and leaders had gone be-
hind the scenes; also to keep good company, and
keep pure and unspotted from the world.
	"The next meeting was appointed at my
house, and notwithstanding the inclemency of
the weather, it was completely filled at an
early hour. Elder Kimball, as usual, delivered
an address, warning his hearers against giving
heed to their youthful passions, and exhorting
them to be obedient, and to pay strict attention
to the advice and command of their parents,
who were better calculated to guide the path-
way of youth than they themselves. My
house being too small, the next meeting was
appointed to be held in the hall over my
store.
	"I addressed the young people for some time,
expressing my gratitude to Elder Kimball for
having commenced this glorious work, which
would be the means of doing a great deal of
good, and said the gratitude of all good men
and of the youth, would follow him through
life, and he would always look back upon the
winter of 1843 with pleasure.
	"I experienced more embarrassment in stand-
ing before them than I should before kings and
nobles of the earth, for I knew the crimes of
which they were guilty, and knew precisely
how to address them, but that my young friends
were guilty of none of them, and therefore I
hardly knew what to say. I advised them to
organize themselves into a society for the re-
lief of the poor, and I recommended to them
a poor lame English brother (Maudsley) who
wanted a house built, that he might have a
home amongst the Saints; that he had gathered
a few materials for the purpose, but was unable
to use them, and had petitioned for aid. I ad-
vised them to choose a committee to collect
funds for their purpose and perform this charit-
able act as soon as the weather permitted. I
gave them such advice as I deemed was calcu-
lated to guide their conduct through life and
prepare them for a glorious eternity. A meet-
ing was appointed to carry out these sugges-
tions, at which William Cutler was chosen

			[Column 2]
President and Marcellus L. Bates, Clerk; An-
drew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer and Stephen
Perry, were appointed to draft a constitution
for the society, and the meeting adjourned to
the 28th of March, when the said committee
submitted a draft of a constitution, consisting of
twelve sections. The report was unanimously
adopted, and the meeting proceeded to choose
their officers. William Walker was chosen
President; William Cutler, Vice President;
Lorin Walker, Treasurer; James M. Monroe,
Secretary; Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Allred, William H. Kimball and Garret
Ivins, were  appointed a committee of vigilance.
The meeting then adjourned until the next
Tuesday evening.
	“The next meeting was addressed by Elders
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Jedediah M. Grant, whose instructions were
listened to with breathless attention."
	After the Prophet's death, I again entered
into plural marriage. I was married to Prest.
Brigham Young according to the law of proxy,
and received my blessings in the Temple at
Nauvoo. I had one son born in Nauvoo; he
was named Edward Partridge Young Smith.
The Saints were again driven from their homes,
and I crossed the Mississippi River about the
middle of February, 1846, and was again
without home or shelter, an outcast and a wan-
derer in the dreary wilderness, without even
the necessaries of life. My babe was about
three months old. I was not quite twenty-two,
and had been driven, with  the Saints of God,
by mobs, four times, and all for my religion.
The weather being cold and stormy, the camp
could not progress very fast on their jour-
ney.
	As the season advanced, settlements were
formed, and some of the different companies
stopped to raise crops and recruit their teams.
When we arrived at Grand River our company
halted until other companies came up. A set-
tlement was organized, and Father Wm.
Huntington was appointed to preside. He
died and was buried there. The place was
named Mt. Pisgah. Here I joined my mother's
family, and as she was going to stop, I con-
cluded that I would rather stop, too, rather
than be separated from her again. The breth-
ren built log huts for those who were going to
stay, and although they were without door, win-
dow, floor, fireplace, or chimney, they did nicely
for warm weather.  Our shanty was in a
beautiful grove on the hill, about half a mile
from the river ford. We had several neigh-
bors close by.
	My sisters, Eliza and Caroline, went on
with the companies. and as my baby was very
sick at the time it made me feel very lonesome
to see them all go and leave us, so few, alone
in the wilderness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & -P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER SRAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, on the 8th of June, Sister
Harriet Snow presiding. On the stand were
present all the officers of the Stake organiza-
tion, except the second counselor, Sister Mary
Stark, who is and has been, very sick for
several months. Prest. Oliver Snow and
Patriarch Box were also present.
	Sisters Hubbard, Keller, and Harper report-
ed verbally, after which Prest. O. S. Snow said:
"I look upon these organizations as a great
help to the Priesthood, organized by the revela-
tion of God, hence the importance. A few
years ago they were but small organizations,
but now they are wonderfully extensive. I
can also see a great improvement in the sisters,
intellectually; many if them can rise and
speak eloquently on any subject; not that I
wish to say that it is necessary to be a fluent
speaker in order to be useful in the kingdom
of God; we find many who have  not that talent,
but are great helps in the kimgdom." Spoke 
of the firmness of many women; referred to
the persecutions of to-day, and said, "They do
not care anything for our morality or immorali-
ty," and showed how inconsistent the proceed-
ings are.
	During Prest. Snow's speaking, Sisters Eliza
R. Snow Smith and Jane Richards had arrived
with the train, and entered during his re-
marks.
	Sisters Jane Richards felt pleased with the
remarks of Prest. Snow; "He has given us
quite an encouragement; we all like to be en-
couraged once in a while, but most of us do
not enjoy being reproved, although it will do us
good. We need to be very humble and prayer-
ful. We have had peace so long that I almost
feared the Lord had forgotten us, but we see
He has not, for the Scripture says that the
son or daughter that He loves, He will chastise.
hence, those that are persecuted are the people
of God. When we feel the Spirit of God
resting upon us we feel reconciled to whatever
the Lord will require; if we live faithful lives,
full of His Spirit, we cannot alone call Him
Father, but we feel He is Father." Spoke
very encouragingly and instructive; alluded to
the trials and unpleasantness of those who are
persecuted, but thought we had to be thankful
and rejoice that we are numbered among God's
chosen people.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith felt pleased to
see such a large congregation in the forenoon;
said, "You and I do not want to belong to the
exception, we want to be true, to belong to
those God has revealed but what is more
than mortal lives. As a people we have grown
very selfish, our hearts have drawn out to the
love of the world." Spoke of her feelings and
experience at the time she embraced the Gos-
pel, the powers of darkness exerted itself so
strongly. Said, death is a thousand times
more acceptable than apostacy. Bro. Heber
C. Kimball was called the prophet of Brigham.
He said, 'There will come a day that will try
every one.' So there will be something that
will try every one of this peope."
	Conference adjourned till two o'clock. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Box.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the following sisters spoke and reported
their different organizations:	Sister Terry,
Mary Grant, Mary E. Snow, Susannah Booth.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said, "We have
heard so many things-- we have come to
a fountain that will never be exhausted. Our
religion is a pratical one, not theory alone; we
are workers, and to become a good housekeep-
er I think is one of the greatest arts, if not
the greatest. Let our young girls learn to be
good housekeepers, and then cultivate fancy
work, art and music after; but let housekeep-
ing be the first consideration." Spoke in very
strong language against "banged hair;" said,
"We want our young girls to look the most
sensible, the most intellectual. When I meet
a young lady who is willing to show her brow,
I see she has some sense." To have a good
home it takes order; it is no ordinary thing to
be a good housekeeper. Should a mother, then,
take all the responsibility and care upon her-
self through sympathy for her daughters? It
is a cruel mother that will do all herself to
save her girls. A good home is the founda-
tion of a nation." Spoke of home industry,
storing grain for the famine and raising silk.
"A few individuals have done the best they
could, but the Lord never meant to accomplish
these things by individuals and then we are
told to keep the Sabbath day holy. We had
better suffer persecution than to be a rejected
people. I have heard from others that the


Prophet Joseph had said that the Saints
would go up to the Rocky Mountains, and
there should be the greatest apostacy—about
two-thirds of the people. Bro. Kimball said
the same. what of we should go to prison—I
don't know, but I hope I would die cheerfully
rather than relinquish one principle of our re-
ligion. It is not alone our privilege, but our
duty to acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. We have more to encourage us, to see
this ordeal before us, than otherwise; I believe
when this is past Zion will be resplendent. Told
how she had seen the time when the Saints
would be one in principle. Spoke in beauti-
ful and eloquent language about our striving to
be faithful.
	Sister Jane S. Richards said: "I have been
thinking if it would be wisdom to try to speak
after having heard such an excellent discourse
as we have heard. I have thought a great
deal of Sister Eliza's remarks on Sabbath
breaking, which is a subject that interests me
greatly." Spoke of the many conferences we
have the privilege of attending, and how great-
ly we are blest; all are comfortably dressed, and
have plenty to eat. We have seen hard times
in the past. Felt thankful for the many rains
we have had this spring, and said, "To me this
is a great comfort, to see the Lord is not going
to starve us while we are persecuted. The
Lord will arrange our affairs better for us than
we can." Referred to those who neglect our
meetings; felt to give them a special blessing,
because they did not enjoy. what we do who
meet together. Spoke eloquently on the bless-
ings we enjoy, and prayed fervently that those
present might prove faithful.
	Bishop Terry from three Mile, and Bishop
Harper from Calls Fort, both made a few clos-
ing remarks full of encouragement.
	Prest. Harriet Snow notified all to attend
the Relief Society Fair in the Court House,
and after singing, conference adjourned for 
three months.
			THE FAIR.
	The fair was a beautiful sight, particularly
so to those who know that almost everything
was what the sisters had on hand, not exactly
prepared for a fair. The spirit of the time
has cast a certain gloom over everybody, and
the craving for pleasure not so great. Many
felt like giving it up, but Sister Susannah
Booth, with her natural energy, felt otherwise,
and the love that we feel for "Aunt Harriet,"
our President, caused that everybody brought
forth in a hurry all the nice things they had on
hand—too numerous to mention all— beautiful
quilts, dainty lace pillow shams, tidies in net-
ting, knitting and crochet, one lovely knitted
bedspread, by Sister Barnard White of Three
Mile, embroidered collars, pillows cases, skirts,
baby dresses, aprons, a lot of netted neckties,
for sale, made by Sister Karen Olsen, seventy-
seven years old; beautiful lace neckties, Sister
Smith, sixty-nine years old; fanciful patterns,
knitted in wool and cotton, stockings both for
children and adults, crochet baby jackets, knit-
ted petticoats, for ladies and babies, in wool,
shawls, red, black, white and black checked,
lindsey, white checked and changable, a good
many pieces; rugs, knitted garters, odd pattern,
beautiful worked mottoes, mats, ornaments of
different kinds, beautiful gloves, collars in silk
and beads, hats for boys and girls, pincushions,
sofacushions in tapestry, and elegant crazy quilt,
by Susannah Booth, good shoelaces, made by
a Swedish brother by the name of Carlsen,
embroidered flannel skirts, a lovely scarf em-
broidered with cream colored silk on same
color nun's veiling, by Alvira Widerborg; a
novelty in a corset, made of home-made linen,
by Theorie Mikkelsen; horns for autumn leaves,
beautifully ornamented; cromoes; and a striking
feature was a hat and wreath made of fibres of
a squash vine, by Chiefess Rapukine, President
of the Relief Society of Mauie, Hawaiian
Islands, presented to Armeda Young; rag car-
pets; wool carpets, striped; vegetables and
fruits; beautiful flowers, growing everywhere,
and lovely cutflowers, but the main spot of
beauty and attraction was the
			SILK DEPARTMENT.
	Here were worms eating away their green
leaves, some spinning, still in the brush, fresh
cocoons from this year, seven pounds of silk,
some reeled, some spun and colored, by several
sisters, but the following is silk by Sister
Christena and Eliza Forgren: six different
kinds of silk cloth; sixteen yards one lovely
piece of changable crimson and blue dress
goods; thirteen yards of purple and white;
twelve yards of pink and white, for underwear,
woven kersey; ten yards beautiful heavy black
and white, woven four leaf, intended for vests
for all their sons and sons-in-law; also a small
sample in blue and brown of the same material;
eight yards of white kersey, for underwear;
sewing silk, spun and twisted, red, blue, black
and white; black mitts; red and white neckties;
black and white collars, done in netting and
crochet; three grey made up dresses, one
trimmed around the skirt with a heavy black
silk fringe, also home made; one dress of the
same—property of Alvira Forsgren, Secretary.
All of the above is entirely Mrs. Christena and
Eliza Fosgren's own work, form the green
mulberry leaf to the last stitch in making it
up. Gedske Rasmuson, seventy-two years of
age, had one changable dress, crimson and
blue, made by herself, except coloring and
weaving, which was done by Mrs. Christena
Forsgren. Two grey dresses made by Mrs.
Christena Christensen and daughter.
			EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.									
.﻿


A GENTILE WOMAN'S LETTER.

				OHIO, July 12th, 1885
DEAR MORMON SISTERS:

  I read almost daily in the papers something
concerning your people, and always with deep
interest, and I believe I must say it, great sym-
pathy for you.  I cannot believe you a bad peo-
ple, and, seeing the constant, daily unpunished
violation of law around us here, my heart is
filled with sorrow and my soul with bitterness
by the great show of righteousness in prosecut-
ing the Mormons.
	The Catholics hold "church above state" as high
ly as the Mormons are said to, and not only so,
they have no morals--on every corner around
us is a saloon, the proprietor and family go to
the Catholic Church strictly every Sunday
morning to "early mass."  Then, notwithstand-
ing 'tis against state and corporation law, they
sell liquor all the rest of the day. Now and
then (just after an election, when the new
officers are very zealous) the evil is partly
checked, but they soon begin to venture out
further and further, and just before an election,
the saloon keeper does as he pleases--their vote
is desirable.  The Catholic vote counts, and
other church members, if interested in politics,
especially if running for office, cultivate them.
There are good persons in the Catholic Church,
but the history of the church is bad--ten--a
thousand times worse than the Mormon record,
and the Catholic Church, though the individual
members are changed, is the same as the
Catholic Church of old.  Queen Elizabeth will
behead the Catholic Queen Mary, if their in-
terests conflict.
  Your crime, in the eyes of most of your
enemies, is not your belief in polygamy, but is
your voting the Democratic ticket. The Republi-
cans hold up your polygamy because they
know that the Democrats dare not come out
boldly, and stand by you without--to use a


common expression—giving themselves away
on the Polygamous question, and it is a delicate
question, for every man values his domestic
peace and harmony, and a show of virtue
covers a multitude of shortcomings. I venture
a wager, that, did all men dare do so, eight
out of ten would vote for polygamy, and four
out of eight already practice it in secrecy.
	This arresting and throwing into prison men
who are good, moral citizens, except that they
have more than one wife, makes me think of
hogs rooting each other out of the trough, and
squealing while they get in snout and feet.
Sometimes I have a mind to follow Ann
Eliza's plan—"escape," and as she got an east-
ern man to write up her lecture against the
Mormons, I could get a "Mormon" to write
my lecture, and then tell "what I know of
the anti-Mormons" (and the uncles, too).
	The little EXPONENT comes regularly, and
is, as ever, read with pleasure and interest.
Hoping all will come out right, and that you,
and we all may live in peace and prosperity, I
remain,		Your friend,
				EMILY SCOTT.


A REUNION.

SALT LAKE CITY, July, 3rd, 1885.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The month of June was quite a gala time
for the Twentieth Ward. On the second of
the month a special meeting of the Relief So-
ciety was held. The following visitors were
present: Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, M. I.
Horne, H. M. Whitney, Rachel Grant and E.
H. Woodmansee. Instructions were given in
regard to looking after the poor, and other in-
teresting subjects were treated upon.
	After the close of the meeting, the sisters
gathered at the residence of C. R. Savage,
where the tables were spread with a bountiful
repast. After partaking of the banquet and
indulging in social chat for an hour or two,
most of the sisters attended the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and all felt repaid for their day's meeting.
	On the 12th the Y. L. M. I. A. had a straw-
berry festival, which was a success in every
sense of the word. The hall, decorated with
festoons of flowers, and the well set tables, looked
as it never had before. The Bishop and
Counselors, Bro. and Sister Tingy, and nearly
all the prominent members of the ward were
present. The evening passed along very
pleasantly—songs, speeches, and recitations
were listened to with interest, and then refresh-
ments were partaken of after which the tables
were cleared away, and the pleasant affair
wound up with dancing.
	CECILIA SHARP.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Though God may seem to frown in His
providences, yet He always smiles in His
promises.--Ex.

	Live near to God, and so all things will ap-
pear to you little in comparison with eternal
realities.--R. M. M' Cheyne.

  Good temper, like a sunny day, sheds a
brightness over everything. It is the sweetener
of toil and the soother of disquietude.--
Irving

	It is always good to know if only in passing
a charming human being: it refreshes one like
flowers and woods and clear brooks. --George
Eliot.

	If you have any doubt about woman's hav-
ing time to vote, visit a crazy quilt show, and
write yourself down as ignorant of woman's
spare time, as of woman herself.--Richmond
Independent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Nowhere can a man go that temptation can-
not find him, Temptation possesses a free pass
on all railroads, a free berth on all the boats, a
free entrance to school-rooms, and business
offices, and play-grounds,—and even to the
churches.—S.S. Times


The Bill to render legal marriage with a
deceased wife's sister stood for second reading
on June 11th, but as the Lords did not sit on
that day it could not come on, and it has since
been withdrawn. The question is one which
will probably be submitted to the new Parlia-
ment at an early date after the general elec-
tion, and as it is a subject on which there is a
very strong feeling among women the injustice
would be obvious if they were to remain en-
tirely without representation in the Legislature
which, will be asked to deal with it.—Ex


Patents have been issued, to women during
the week ending June 23rd, 1885, as follows:
	Mary G. Barbour, Bradford, Mass., Broiler
or Toaster.
	Clara E. Hosmer, Auburn, N. Y., Leggin.
	Mary E. Woodward, Parker, Dakota Ter.,
Folding crib.

	The following patenss were issued to women
during the week ending June 30, 1885:
	Lydia J. Cadwell, Chicago, Ill., Apparatus
for treating the products of rendering-tanks.
	Lydia S. Purington, Westboro', Mass., Cor-
set.
	Anna Dormitzer, New York, N. Y., Win-
dow-cleaning chair.
	Charlotte A. Gandill,Brooklyn, N.Y.,Lady's
skirt-protector.


OBITUARIES.

  It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the death of
our sister and co-worker, Sister Sarah M. Hawkins, who
died suddenly, May 2nd, 1885, aged forty-eight years and
two months.  Although she had been sick most of the
winter, yet she recovered so far as to be enabled to go to
the Logan Temple to do some work for her dead, and it
seemed to satisfy her that she had been there.  She leaves
a husband, a large family and many friends to mourn her
loss.
	At her funeral the speaker paid her the highest tribute
that could be given to woman, by saying she had been a 
pure, consistent woman in every phase of life.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

  Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst our beloved sister,
  Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers of
the 8th Ward Relief Society, do deeply mourn her loss,
that we cherish her memory and emulate her many virtues,
for we can truly say she manifested that true charity which
flows from a sense of duty and hope in God.
  Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved hus-
band and family in the loss of a loving wife and mother,
and we pray that God will inspire her children to walk in
her footsteps.
  Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the
ward record.
						E. B. FLETCHER, President,
						CATHERINE PALMER
						JANE COWAN, Counselors.
  It is with feelings of deep sorrow and regret that we
chronicle the death of our beloved sister, Hester Ann
Beebee, who passed peacefully to her rest on the 25th of
June, at her residence in the Second Ward, Provo, sur-
rounded by many of her relatives and friends.
  Sister Beebee was the widow of George Beebee, and the
seventh child of Dr. David W. and Martha Rogers. Was
born in Dunkirk; Chatuaque County, New York, March
23rd, 1825; was baptized in 1841, in  Mississippi River
at Montrose, Iowa, opposite the City of Nauvoo. Was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
passed through all the persecutions of the Saints at that
place.
  After their exodus from Nauvoo, Sister Beebee settled
with her family in Iowa, but her heart and sympathies were
with the people in all their wanderings in the wilderness,
with a desire to be with them, but circumstances prevented
her wishes being gratified till the year 1876, when, with her
family, she gathered with the Saints and settled in Provo.
  She was the mother of eleven children, six of whom are
living to mourn her loss. Sister Beebee was a great ad-
mirer of what was most lovely in nature; was passionately
fond of flowers, and spent much of her time in laboring to
beautify her home, which she made a bower of beauty and
loveliness. She often contributed her floral offerings to dec-
orate the dead, and adorned the strands of our tabernacle
on Sunday and other occasions.
  She held the dual offices of Treasurer to the Utah Stake
Relief Society since its organization, in the year 1878, till
her demise. Was appointed Stake President of the Silk
Association in 1881. Ever since she held that office she
seemed never weary in trying to make a success of that en-
terprise; was a person endowed with much executive ability,
as well as great powers of endurance, combined with
moral courage and perseverance, and withal a most devoted
Latter-day Saint.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

  Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our dear sister, who was
an active member of our Society, a co-worker in the cause
of truth, one who never faltered, but faithfully discharged
her duties to the best of her ability in every position she was
called to act, therefore,
  Resolved, therefore, That we tender our deepest sym-
pathies to the family and friends of our departed sister,
praying that the comforting influence of our Heavenly
Father may rest upon them and fill their hearts with peace,
that they may bow in humble submission to His will, feel-
ing that He doeth all things well.
  Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon our minutes, also upon the record of each society in
the county, and a copy sent to the EXPONENT for publica-
tion,						MARY JOHN,
						EMILY G. CLUFF,
						MARILLA M. DANIELS

	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER H. A. BEEBEE.

  Sister Hester A. Beebee, who died not long since at
Provo, was an untiring worker in the cause of silk culture.
She was President of the Utah Silk Association, and had
been, for some time, and even previous to that time, a very
efficient help to Sister M. I. Smoot, the former President.
She was a very intelligent and able worker in many other
directions, and her loss will be deeply felt by the sisters in
that county.
  Sister Lucy W. Kimball has given a few items in refer-
ence to Sister Beebee's labors in this direction, which we
think are proper to publish, as they show the special inter-
est and desire she had to carry out the counsel given in
the establishment of silk culture and manufacture.
  "I assisted Sister Beebee in getting the reeling in opera-
tion, prior to leaving for California, which was in Novem-
ber, 1882. There were then several young ladies taking
lessons in reeling. She writes in the following May that
silk reeling was again in operation, A young lady from
Toquerville was learning to reel, with a view of taking a
class on her return home, and that she was very anxious to
get all the old cocoons reeled up during the summer.
 July 22nd she wrote, "We have decided to emigrate a
silk weaver from England," and stated that the reels ordered
from Philadelphia had already arrived. 'Mrs. Lucy B.
Young has for the last week been taking lessons at my
house, and will send for a reel for St. George.'
  'My interest in the silk industry is increasing, and I begin
to think we may yet realize all our fondest hopes in the
manufacture of silk. I so often wish you were here to as-
sist and counsel me. My anxiety is so great I can scarcely
wait for you to name the date of your return. I have to-
day written to Philadelphia, Iowa, London, England and
to you in California in the interest of the silk. Do send
me all items of interest on this subject.'
  'I have just received a rare specimen of reeled silk from
the Woman's Silk Association.'
  Sister Daniels also writes me while in California: 'I can-
not close without giving you some idea of Sister Beebee's
home. It is completely filled with looms, wheels, reels,
runners, bobbins, and added to these the weaver and her
daughter. In her zeal she has almost turned herself and
family out of the house and home.'
  They have succeeded, however, in making some very
fine handkerchiefs, also very fair dress goods. She has
done all the coloring with her own hands, and is only
waiting your return to make it a complete success.' "


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Nations, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
	And an elegant assortmenf of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

