Vol. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1886.		No. 23.


[Column 1]
THE MARRIAGE OF THE FLOWERS.

It is six, the swallows twittered, and you're very late in
		rising—
	If you really think of rising on this lovely morn at all—
For the great red sun is peeping over wood and hill and
		meadow,	  
	And the unmilked cows are lowing in the dimly lighted
		stall.

Oh, ye robins and ye swallows, thought I, throwing back
		the lattice, 
	Ye are noisy, joyous fellows, and you waken when you
		will;
Then I saw a dainty letter, bound in ribbons-grass and
		clover, 
	That the swallows had left swinging be the narrow
		window-sill.

Oh, the dainty, dainty letter, on an orange leaf, or lemon,
	Signed, "Your Friend, the Queen of Roses," writ in
		characters of dew:
	"You're invited to the garden, there's a good time there at
		seven,
	And a place beside the apple-tree has been reserved for
		you. 

	"There’ll be matings there, and marriages, of every flower
		and blossom:
	Cross the brook behind the arbor, and come early if you
		can."
Oh, my thoughts they all went bounding, and my heart
		leaped in my bosom,	
	"And how sweetly she composes," I reflected as I ran.

There she sat, the queen of roses, with her virgins all about
		her,
	While the lilacs and the apple blooms seemed waiting
		her command.
Oh, how lovely, oh, how gracious, she did smile on each
		new-comer!
	Oh, how sweet she kissed the lilies as she took them by
		the hand!

Never had I seen her fairer than she was this happy morn-
		ing.
	Never knew her breath delicious half so boundless, half
		so rare;
Oh, she seemed a thing of heaven, with the dew upon her
		bosom,
	And I wished I were some daffodil that I might kiss it
		there. 

All at once the grass rows parted, and the sweetest notes
		were sounded, 
	There was music, there was odor, there was loving in
		the air, 
And a hundred joyous gallants, robed in holiday apparel,
	Danced beneath the lilac bushes with a hundred maid-
		ens fair.

There were tulips proud and yellow, with their great green
		spears beside them, 
	There were lilies grandly bowing to the rose queen as
		they came;
There were daffodils so stately, scenting all the air of hea-
		ven,
	Joyous buds, and sleepy poppies, with their banners al
		aflame. 

There were pansies robed in purple, marching o'er the 
		apple blossoms, 
	And the foxgloves with their pages tripped coquettishly 
		along,
And the violets and the daisies, in their bonnets blue and 
		yellow, 
	Joined the marching and parading of th' innumerable 
		throng. 

All at once the dandelion blew three notes upon his
		trumpet:
	Choose ye partners for the dancing, gallant knights and 
		ladies fair;

[Column 2]

And the honeysuckle courtesied to the young sweet-
		breathed clematis,
	And remarked upon the sweetness of the blossoms in 
		her hair.

"We're the tallest," said the tuberose to the iris standing 
		nearest,
	"And suppose that now, for instance, I should offer you 
		my heart?"
	"Oh, how sudden," cried the sly-thing, "I am really quite
		embarrassed—
	Unexpected, but pray do it, just to give the rest a start."

Then a daisy kissed a pansy, with its jacket brown and
		yellow.
	And a crocus led a thistle to a seat beside the rose;
And the maybells grouped, close beside the lady-slipper,
	And commented on her beauty and the splendor of her
		clothes.

"Oh, a market this for beauty," said a jasmine gently
		clinging
	To the strong arm of an orange, and a glance on him
		she threw;
"Why, you scarcely would believe it, but I've had this very 
		morning
	Twenty offers, and declined them, just to promenade
		with you."

So, in groupings or in couples, led each knight some gentle
		lady,
	Led some fair companion blushing past the wind-rows, 
		fresh and green,
And the sweet rose gave her blessing, and a kiss at times,
		it may be,
	To the fairest brides, and sweetest, mortal eye hath ever
		seen.

Then again the grass it parted, and the sunshine it grew 
		brighter,
	Till it seemed as if the curtains of high heaven were 
		withdrawn,
	And each flower and bud and blossom pressed some 
		fair one to its bosom,
	As the bannered train danced gayly twixt the wind-rows	
		on the lawn. 

Oh, the musk-rose was so stately, and so stately was the 
		queen rose, 
	And how sweetly smiled she on me as she whispered in
		my ear,
	"Come again, you know you're welcome; come again, dear, 
		for it may be
	That our baby buds and blossoms will be christened
		here next year.
									SELECTED.


[Column 1]
			WHY IS IT? 
	The people of Utah, in the midst of all their
troubles, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that, as things appear, the position
they have taken is one from which to dislodge
them their enemies are forced to employ unfair 
and extraordinary means. 
	One would naturally suppose, if the "Mor-
mon" community were made up of the vile 
and characterless wretches they are reputed
to be, it would only be necessary to tell the 
truth about them, and that would suffice for
every purpose of even their bitterest foes; that
it would not be needful in working for their 
overthrow to falsify their religious and politi-
cal views, distort their sayings and put strained
and unwarrantable constructions upon their 
acts in order to make them odious in the eyes
of mankind. 
	And yet these things are being done con-
stantly by those who boast of fairness, liberali-
ty, patriotism, chivalry, charity, piety, and all 
the graces of the Gospel calendar, and who

[Column 2]
never tire of drawing the contrast between the 
superiority of their Christian civilization and
the degrading practices of the "Mormons." If
the conversion of this alleged misguided peo-
ple, and not, as many believe, their extermina-
tion is the end desired, it would seem to be a
queer way of impressing them with the idea
that that vaunted superiority does not exist
entirely in the imagination of its professors. 
	To misstate an opponent's position and then
fiercely assail him in that position, may show
energy and in some instances earnestness, but
it is certainly anything but fair and chivalrous,
with all due respect for those mythical "Ameri-
can gentlemen," whose egotism so often asserts, 
but as often fails to prove, otherwise. 
	To cull from a speaker's remarks only such 
portions as by isolation and prejudiced com-
ment can be made to appear "treasonable" and
unchristianlike, and purposely ignore other
parts that would by association explain and
make clear and innocent the speaker's meaning, 
s anything but upright and honorable, and
smacks more of the demagogue than of the 
patriot, of lying than loyalty. And yet this
is the course almost invariably pursued by
rabid anti-"Mormon" editors and reporters 
who have so much to say about "Mormon 
treason" and "Mormon trickery." 
	Why this reluctance to tell "the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth" in
professing to report what a "Mormon" Elder
says to his congregation? Is it because the
simple truth would not serve the purpose
which the garbled and distorted "report" is 
intended to subserve? And if so, is it not a
confession of cowardice, weakness and dishon-
esty on the part of those responsible for its use? 
It looks very much as if the "Mormons" and
their religion were feared quite as much as they 
are hated; and that there is something about 
them which their enemies wish to keep hidden, 
the exposure of which would tend to defeat 
their plans and let daylight through their dark
and treacherous doings. 
	But the epidemic of anti-"Mormon" mis-
representation is not confined to this locality, 
nor to the newspaper profession. It rages
everywhere, frothing and foaming from the 
pulpit and thundering from the platform. It 
breaks out in Congress as the prelude to the
passage of every act of anti-"Mormon" special
legislation. And why these special laws? 
Why are not the restrictions that govern so-
ciety elsewhere stringent enough for the "Mor-
mons?" Why must the Constitution be ig-
nored in enacting laws against us, and then
the law itself ignored in the extraordinary
methods adopted by those charged with enforc-
ing it? Is it not tantamount to a confession
by the law-making power that the "Mormons" 
are obeying all laws that ought to govern so-
ciety; and an admission by the courts that this
peaceable, law-abiding people cannot be caught
by a measure passed purposely to entrap them,
except the law itself be trampled under foot
by those who have sworn to uphold and exe-
cute it? 
	This way of forcing the Mormon ques-
tion into such "undue prominence" is, to say
the least, bad policy on the part of a govern-
ment as great as this professes to be—the
spectacle of fifty-five millions of people stirred
to the very depths over a problem involving 
at the most a little handful of 150,000 souls, is
little less than ludicrous; especially when we
hear it asserted by those who assume to know


that a “Mormon war” at the present time
would be the most popular thing the United
States could engage in; that all the great ques-
tions affecting a thousand times more the safe-
ty and welfare of the Republic could be lost
sight of and forgotten, and the gigantean
mind of the whole country absorbed and swal-
lowed up in the paltry enterprise of subjugating
a handful of “religious fanatics,” so called,
peaceably occupied in tilling the soil of a
desert by them redeemed, and made fruitful,
and singing praises in their own way to the
God whom they list to serve in this land of
religious liberty. If this would not be taking
a thunderbolt to kill a flea, what would it be?
	We repeat that the “Mormons,” in spite of
persecution, can derive satisfaction from the
thought that their opponents cannot afford, for
reasons best known to themselves, to treat
them fairly and honorably. They ought to
feel flattered that they arethe objects of so much,
unnecessary attention, and that a war for their
subjugation or extermination would be the most
popular movement that could be made by the
foremost nation of modern times. Vive la.
bagatelle!
				ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We are almost out of the world here, and
do not receive the news very readily, but as
soon as we obtained a paper with the account
of the Ladies' Mass Meeting in Salt Lake City,
we called our Society, or what is left of it, to-
gether. The Preamble and Resolutions, with
the Addresses, were read, and listened to with
interest, and notwithstanding we are far away
and few in numbers, we fully endorse the senti-
ments of our leading sisters as our own, and
are with them heart and soul in the present
movement.
	Our Relief Society was reorganized on Jan.
1st, 1885, with Mary A. Farnsworth, Presi-
dent; Amanda Foutz and Bella Farnsworth,
Counselors; Annie D. Farnsworth, Secretary.
We held one meeting under our new organiza-
tion, and then we were again broken up. Some
have become discouraged and moved away for
good, others are absent on account of the perse-
cutions that are being heaped upon our peo-
ple.
	Our general health is good as it always
is; death, excepting from accident and old age,
has never visited us during the seven years of
our settlement here. Our postoffice address is
Tuba City, though the place is better known by
the name of Moan Coppy. We have a weekly
mail now, still there seems to be some irregu-
larities, which we hope will be overcome in
time.
				MARY A. FARNSWORTH
	Tuba City, Arizona.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I thought a few words from this out of the
way place might be of interest to the many
readers of your valuable paper, which is read
with great interest at our firesides, or in our
meetings. We love to know what our sisters
are doing in the different stakes of Zion, We
have a little band of sisters in this branch of
the Fremont Ward that are striving to do
their duty in taking care of the sick and poor,
in throwing in their mites to build Temples and
assist in every good work. We have a good
Sunday School, which is well attended by old
and young. Our Primary is also in good con-
dition. Great credit is due to the officers of
both associations, for the great interest they
take in the welfare of the young and rising 
generation.
	We had a good time here on the 4th of this


month. One of our brethren, Peter I. Ecklem,
was called to go on a mission, and the Relief
Society thought they would give him a sur-
prise. At half past six p.m., the time ap-
pointed for gathering, a long table was spread 
in the meeting house, at which about one hun-
dred and fifty partook of the good things of 
the earth. When the tables were cleared
away, the time until twelve o'clock was spent
in speech making, singing, dancing, etc. All
went home feeling that they had had a good
time—one long to be remembered by our de-
parted missionary.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we
remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				S. J. MORRELL, Prest.,
				M. R. MORRELL, Sec.
	Spencer, Sevier Co.


MARRIAGE AMONG THE TURCO-
				MANS.

	The Turcoman women do a vast amount of
work. They fabricate carpets, screens for
doors, work bags, horse clothing, blankets, and
when a young woman is engaged it is thought
to be the right thing for her to work all the
kibitka or tent domestic carpets and other
household requisites before she is married.
When, however, she does marry without hav-
ing completed this task, it is expected from 
her that as soon as practicable by her own
labor she will refund in cash or kind to her
husband the dowry paid to her parents on
marriage. Such dowry generally consists of
100 sheep and a certain amount of money,
which the bridegroom either pays down in a
lump sum to the parents of the bride or by
stipulated installments. Before a wedding it
is customary for the bridegroom, after having
arranged for the dowry to be paid to the pa-
rents of the bride, to collect his friends for a 
succession of horse races and other sports, as
also to secure and decorate a camel with the
handsomest trappings, which is sent to the
bride's kibitka, and on which she mounts and
goes forth to receive the congratulations of her
own relatives. On the appointed day of the
wedding the bride seats herself on a carpet
outside her tent, surrounded by her people,
and the female relatives of the bridegroom go
down to receive and take her away. This is
immediately opposed by the young lady's
party, who offer resistance by the discharge of
raw eggs, etc., at the new comers, on which a
general egg-fight is entered into by the young
women present, whilst the older dames carry
on the engagement with almonds and raisins.
In the meantime the bridegroom rushes into
the melee, walks off his beloved, and puts her 
upon the camel-saddle, when the matter is con-
cluded. Another sort of marriage, called
"gulcha," where the girl of her own accord
runs off with the young man without reference
to her parents, is accepted as correct, pro-
vided he is of a like social position and duly
pays the prescribed dowry.


HOW TO CULTIVATE LETTUCE.

	The secrets of successful lettuce culture are
early sowing, rich, well-prepared soil, and giv-
ing the plants plenty of room. The seed
should be sown early, because being small, it
must be [---]ted shallow, and hence cannot en-
dure much drought, and also because lettuce
is a cool-weather plant, and so thrives better in
the moist and mild weather of spring, than
the dry and hot weather of summer. The
soil should be rich to promote rapid growth,
and well prepared to facilitate the germination
of the seed. As the plants of most varieties,
when fully developed, are a foot or more in


diameter, it is obvious that the rows should be
rather more than a foot apart; eigh[--]en to
twenty inches is a good distance. Sow the
seed rather thinly in the drills, and as soon as
the plants are sufficiently large for use, com-
mence thinning out the rows; at first to about
two inches apart. When the bed is passed
over in this way, go over it again, thinning
this time to four or more inches apart. By
following this method, removing each time
every alternate plant, the remaining ones
rapidly develop, and the later ones will grow
to an immense size, often a foot or more in
diameter.—Our Country Home.


WATCH THE CHILDREN'S FEET.

	The following advice from the New York
Evening Post is thoroughly practical, and de-
serves the attention of every mother: "Life-
long discomfort and sudden death often come
to children through the inattention or careless-
ness of parents. A child should never be al-
lowed to go to sleep with cold feet; the thing to
be last attended to is to see that the feet are
dry and warm. Neglect of this has often re-
sulted in a dangerous attack of croup, diph-
theria, or a fatal sore throat. Always on
coming from school, on entering the house 
from a visit or errand in rainy or muddy or
thawy weather, the child should remove its
shoes, and the mother should herself ascertain
whether the stockings are the least damp. If 
they are, they should be taken off, the feet
held before the fire and rubbed with the hands
till perfectly dry, and another pair of stock-
ings and another pair of shoes put on. The
reserve shoes and stockings should be kept
where they are good and dry, so as to be ready
for use on a minute's notice."


The Daily News, of London, with reference
to the great distress prevailing among the
working classes, calls attention to the excel-
lent system practiced by the Jews of the Eng-
lish metropolis in relieving the wants of their
poor. Of the 60,000 Jews living in London,
11,000 stand in need of assistance, which work
is attended to by a board which expends about
£17,000 annually; a branch of it makes loans
without interest charges—from £1 to £70,
which is paid back in weekly installments of
six pence. Only four per cent of it has been
lost. Part of the fund is applied for the pur-
pose of teaching trades to indigent children.
	Miss Isola Van Diest, M. D., the first woman
to take a medical degree in Belgium, has been
endeavoring for several years to obtain the
necessary authorization to practice. Writing
recently to a correspondent, she says: "I am
delighted to be able to inform you that I have
passed the examination imposed upon me, and
have surmounted all the obstacles thrown in
the way of women who would exercise the pro-
fession of a physician. I am at last established,
and enjoy all  the privileges of a Belgian doc-
tor. Many young women are now in our uni-
versities, and one of them has just succeeded
in becoming a pharmacist."


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending March 23rd, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa B. Linthicum, Helena, Ark., At-
tachment for Brake-ovens.
	Henrietta J. Lyon, Newark, N. J., Attach-
ment for Fronts.
	Amanda R. Smith, Prophetstown, Illinois,
Splasher-holder.
	Elizabeth Talcott, Boston, Mount for
Pictures and Photographs.
	Ida A. Seller, Unadilla, N. Y., Kitchen
Utensil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.

TO THE MEMORY OF THE LATE SISTER MARINDA
HYDE, PRESIDENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
OF THE 17TH WARD.

Chide not the grateful loving tear, 
	The holy water of the soul, 
That falls upon Marinda's bier, 
	Which love forbids us to control. 

'Tis love's effusion that we shed,
	'Tis not the tear of vain regret
That consecrates the lowly bed
	Of her we never can forget. 

Methinks I see Marinda's smile, 
	Methinks I hear her low, soft voice; 
That of our grief doth us beguile,
	And bids us all rejoice! rejoice!

And tells us she has reached a home
	Not made by any earthly hands, 
Eternal in the heavenly dome
	With all that heaven itself commands. 

A higher hand than mine must hold
	The pen that traces out her life,
Which should be dip't in liquid gold
	To picture all with which 'tis rife!

But in our love, and deep respect 
	And rich appreciation, we
Will yield to none, when we reflect
	And know 'twas of a high degree.

Where shall we look to fill her place
	So mild, so gentle, yet so firm? 
The Christian lady, rich in grace, 
	A model, from which all should learn. 

Our tears will fall—but yet we know, 
	How vain, how needless are such tears; 
We are so selfish here below, 
	And nothing know, but what appears. 

But faith uplifts the mystic veil. 
	And in the scenes it points to view 
Sorrow no longer can prevail
	And love sighs forth a fond adieu!—

						HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
	SPRING.

"How shall I woo thee, beautiful spring, 
What shall my offering be?"

	Once more we are permitted to behold the most
beautiful quarter of the year—young, vernal, 
glorious spring! the season when all nature 
arises from her long, cold, deathly sleep, throws 
off her alabaster shroud of snow, enters her
dressing room and robes herself in glorious 
apparel of every hue and texture, and comes 
forth as a bride adorned for her bridegroom, 
the grand, gorgeous, life-giving sun! What
greater resurrection do we expect to see? The
resurrection of the human body can scarcely
be greater. Did we not know by yearly expe-
rience that such a transformation would take
place, we should probably be as skeptical with
regard to the grand final resurrection as many
are, even in this age of enlightenment and 
revelation. How could we believe, looking
on these apparently dead trees, these flowers,
dead to the surface, the earth itself a barren,
unsightly object, unless enveloped in her
shroud of snow, from which we recoil, and
pass into our warm habitations and shut the
door, and draw the curtains of the windows to 
exclude the cold, barren, howling wilderness 
outside! Earth looks as a corpse, upon which 
death has set his seal, which he actually has
done for an allotted time; when that time and
season has expired he has no power to retain 
his prey—as of old that Almighty voice is
again seen and felt—"Lazarus, come forth!" 
and, as of old, the sleeping form arises and
obeys the bidding of One who has the power
to resurrect. 
	Should not such thoughts and such repeated
experiences; that never fails, as there we have
 
[Column 2]
just recalled—should they not comfort and
cheer us when we lose our dear ones, and in 
contemplation of our own sleep of death? 
Our ignorance is our great affliction; our judg-
ment and our understanding of all these glori-
ous and mighty truths have been taken from
us, though the soul that lives to God has often
a glimmering of the untold glories of its future
home, sparks from off the eternal altar, which
it grasps with avidity, to feed the flame within
itself that is given to cultivate its immor-
tality. 
	I have often exclaimed that in spring my
soul seemed born anew; it seemed to partake of
the renovating influence thrown at that time
over all nature, and I drank from the halcyon 
cup and was refreshed and renewed by the
same. 
	In this region of country the spring is de-
cidedly not so thrillingly beautiful as in that
where I was reared. Beautiful singing birds
are not here to vocalize every tree and grove; 
the cuckoo, that eternal harbinger of spring, 
with its never varying note, is not here; the
blackbird and the thrush, with their exquisite
notes, are not here, and the nightingale, the
prima donna of  every grove, alas! she, above
all, is not here. The song of birds is to me 
the minstrelsy of heaven, and were it said to
me to-day, you shall choose whose song you
will hear, Patti or the nightingale, I would 
without hesitation say (after the long dearth I
have had of her divine song) "the nightin-
gale in the grove!" Take me there and leave
me alone with that soul-thrilling bird, and my
own thoughts, which she would cultivate and
inspire! But that delicious treat is a thing of 
the past, nor to be heard again by me till the
resurrection, when perhaps "the grove" and
its locality may be a part of my inheritance, 
and then I shall hear again my treasured bird 
in all her glory of resurrected inspiration. I 
suppose it was probably the extreme beauty of 
her song that gave rise to the legend that she 
was a beautiful maiden, but her history was
sorrowful, and she was changed into a bird 
named Philomela; hence her song retains a
melancholy pathos, and inspires feelings of
love and sympathy in her listeners. 
	There was a beautiful lyrical song in my
young days, sung at all the popular concerts—
I think it was composed by Professor Hobbs, 
one of the English composers, and sung by
him. He had a very fine voice, and was one
of the gentlemen of the Chapel Royal. The
words were something of the following. I quote
from memory of fifty years ago, so I may be
pardoned if I err in a word of two. 
		"As it fell upon a day 
		In the merrie month of May, 
		Sitting in a pleasant shade
		With a grove of myrtles made. 
		There Philomela, all forlorn,
		Leaned her breast upon a thorn, 
		That to hear her sore complain
		Scarce I could from tears refrain, 
		For her griefs so lowly shown
		Made me think upon my own." 
	Then followed a refrain, and the accompani-
ment to the words was so thrillingly beautiful, 
and the voice that enunciated it so accom-
plished and pathetic, that after all these long
years I can shut my eyes and the song and the
scene and the singer are heard through a
telephone of a long, long vista of time. Mem-
ory! memory! thou art a certain earnest of the 
immortality of thy possessors. 
	Some of my readers may probably think
that I telescope my ideas, and perhaps I do, 
but I only profess to write as my own heart 
and brain dictate, and as I do not "write for
hire or divine for money" if I do not please all
I know I shall strike some chords in some hearts.

	*The nightengale builds her nest with a
thorn springing up in the center; 

[Column 3]
that will respond in unison with mine, and for
them I write, and they are my inspiration. 
Those who remember the beautiful song I have
quoted will, I know, read it with pleasure. 
					HANNAH T. KING.


MISCELLANEOUS.
      It is not enough that you keep your finger
off from a man; you; must not let you ill-na-
tured or wicked thoughts touch him.

     Mr. Ruskin, alluding to children, says,
"Make them try always who shall speak truest,
both as regards the fact he has to relate and
the precision of the words he expresses it in,
thus making truth the test of perfect lan-
guage."

     There is nothing that pushes a man down-
wards so fast as to lose the respect of his fel-
lows. Let him perceive that he is regarded
with contempt, and he will soon be worthy of
it. Let his efforts be slighted, and he may
gradually cease to put them forth. Let him
be taunted with his ignorance, and it may be-
come even denser. No aid, however generous,
no instruction, however valuable, no compas-
sion, however sincere, can do their true work
for him, if they are unmingled with a certain
deference which is born of respect.
 
     Time is often said to be money; but it is
more—it is life. Yet how many there are
who would cling desperately to life, and yet
think nothing of wasting time. "For who
knows most, him loss of time most grieves."
Chesterfield's letters to his son, with a great
deal that is worldly and cynical, contain cer-
tainly much good advice. "Every moment,"
for instance, he says, "which you now lose is so
much character and advantage lost; as, on the
other hand, every moment you now employ 
usefully is so much time wisely laid out in
prodigious interest." "Do what you will," he
observes elsewhere, "but only do something."
"Know the true value of time; snatch, seize,
and enjoy every moment of it."


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	One of Helen Hunt Jackson's monuments
is to be the "Ramona" Indian School for Girls,
at Santa Fe.
	In Germany and Austria lamb-skins are
largely employed for kid-gloves; in France kid-
skins are used principally, and always for the 
best qualities.
	A municipal suffrage bill, and a bill making
women eligible as overseers of the poor, are
the two things which made the ladies happy
last week.—Boston Transcript.
	Good home-made bread for the market, be-
gun by women in Dubuque, Des Moines, and 
Chicago, has become so it is said, a steady
and remunerative business in each case.  This
is a good "home industry."
	Prof. Maria Mitchell, of Vassar College, ad-
vocates outdoor employment for women.  She
regrets to see women who are in astronomical
observatories work as recorders and computors
rather than observers.  Prof. Mitchell advo-
cates land surveying for women.  Why not?
	Mrs. James Bennett, of Kentucky, says to 
the men who argue that women have not sense
enough to vote:  "If you think the God who
made us did not know as much about the fool-
lishness of the woman on the day He made her
and commanded you to do unto her as you
would be done by, as you can teach Him to-day,
the sooner you stop talking about the foolish-
ness of women, and reflect upon your own
foolishness; the better for you."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten 
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
	NOTES FROM WASHINGTON.

	Washington possesses so many points of inter-
est, that it is difficult to decide which will be most
entertaining when one decides to make a good im-
presssion of it upon others, and present matters of
importance.  This is a delightful time of year, and
the city looks beautiful and the fragrance of the
blooming magnolias and lilacs, with that of the
early flowers, is abroad in the air.  It is the
Lenten season, and consequently there is less
gaiety and display than at other times.  There is
considerable gossip in reference to the President's
marriage with Miss Folsom of Buffalo, but apart
from gossip, no one seems to have real informa-
tion on the subject.  The President still pursues
the even tenor of his way, and is apparently as
unconcerned as though such a rumor had never
been circulated.  Miss Cleveland is still absent
in New York, and the White House is therefore
lacking in one of its great attractions, the presence
of a graceful, intelligent and charming woman.
Even a mansion with wealth and all its appurten-
ances at command needs a woman's tact and skill
to do the honors, and to fashion and arrange all
things tastefully and harmoniously, and as the 
President has no wife, it is an excellent thing for
him and for his friends, as well as all parties con-
cerned in the welfare of his home surround-
ings, that he has a sister who makes his cause her
 own, and fills the place of mistress at the White
House, so it is said, with all the dignity of a 
matron and etiquette of state, and yet has grave
opinions on the gravest questions of the day.
	But as  Latter-day Saints, our people are not
so much absorbed in matters pertaining to the
social etiquette and manners of Washington so-
ciety as in those that seriously affect the condition
of the "Mormons" at the present time.  What
Congress has done in legislating for Utah, and
what is likely to be done in the near future are the 
main questions of importance.  And as one of the
Delegates sent here to present the Memorial of
the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, it becomes a duty to mention to
our readers and the public some of the steps taken
to get the matter properly presented to those in
power.
	After some little delay in regard to the best
method to pursue, the Memorial was formally
presented to the President, and a personal inter-
view with him obtained, on Saturday, April 3rd,
in the library of the Executive Mansion.  He
promised to give the matter serious attention and
consideration, after listening to explanations upon
the subject.  We afterwards learned that he had 
carefully read the Memorial through, which is 
certainly more than he can do with all the memori-
als he receives.
	Hon. Henry W. Blair, Senator from New
Hampshire, presented the Memorial of the women
of Utah, in the Senate of the United States, on
Tuesday, the 6th of April, according to an arrange-
ment previously made with the ladies of the dele-
gation, and asked that it be printed in full in the

[Column 2]
Congressional Record, and as there was no audible 
objection it was done; therefore the wrongs and
grievances as set forth in that document have been
properly recorded in the pages of the journal of
the works of Congress, and stand there as a 
stubborn fact, to the condemnation of those who
perpetrated the outrages mentioned againts wives
and mothers in this land of freedom and liberty.
The wrongs and grievances have been heard, even
in high places, but the redress asked for may be
very slow in coming.  The prejudice is exceedingly
strong against the doctrines and institutions of
the Saints, but the persecution is spreading the
knowledge of truth as nothing else ever could
have done.  Surely it is "a marvelous work and a
wonder."
     On Thursday, the 8th of April, the Memorial
went to the House of Representatives, through
 the courtesy of Gov. Long of Mass., and he re-
quested that it be referred to the Committee on
Judiciary, which was accordingly done.  This
Committee have in their hands also the Senate
Bill No. 10, known as the new Edmunds Bill.
John Randolph Tucker is the Chairman—a very
kindly and wise man—a southern gentleman, large-
hearted and full of that chivalry toward women
which seems so thoroughly natural to the "old
Virginians."
	The Committee on Territories have in their
keeping the Woodburn and McAdoo bills, both
of them infamous in their provisions.  Every
woman should read them for herself, and know
just how the rights of American citizens are
threatened on account of religious belief.  It
seems to be the duty of the women of Utah
especially to examine the laws made on purpose
for them, their husbands and children.  The
women of the United States, generally speaking,
know very little of the government of their own
country, and yet they are ready to call out and 
condemn to punishment under the most offensive
laws, women and children, without even knowing
what measures are taken, or what misery or hard-
ship the enforcement of the laws will bring upon
those who have never even been accused of any
offense.  Talking recently with the wife of a very
popular Senator from an old and influential state,
she acknowledged she had never read the Ed-
munds Law of 1882, and did not know what its
methods were at all, but at whatever risk, poly-
gamy must go.  One of the members of the Com-
mittee expected to act upon that bill, stated, with-
out hesitation, that he had not yet read it, and had
not even seen the Memorial, nor would he promise
to glance through it, as his time was so occupied;
still, as he is expected to consider the bill in Com-
mittee, he will be obliged to read it, but without 
any information concerning the circumstances and
conditions of the people in whose interest, or
against whose interest and welfare the bill has
been expressly framed. However he has had a
few facts forcibly presented to him by the women
from Utah, who called upon him and enlightened
him a little on a few matters pertinent to the main
question.  It is a very common thing to be in-
structed by members to get a new revelation
abolishing or suspending the practice of plural
marraige, as though revelations were made to
order; some have been offered to receive them;
they do not recognize God in it, and yet one
would think they might very readily comprehend
that unless the practice was from a religious con-
viction men and women would not be willing to 
endure the persecutions and hardships and even
imprisonments they are now called upon to suf-
fer.
	The new Governor for Utah, Caleb W. West,
has been here in Washington several days; his
nomination has been confirmed by the Senate,
and he will probably reach Utah soon.  He is
very highly spoken of by leading men here,
notably Speaker Carlisle, and is no doubt a man
of ability, and disposed to be just to all parties.

[Column 3]
The lady delegates have had an opportunity of 
meeting him, and found him very affable and
pleasing in manner, and have formed a good
opinion of his qualifications for the position he
has been appointed to fill.
	One of the most intelligent and interesting men
we have had the pleasure of meeting here, is
George T. Curtis Esq., formerly of Boston, a
man of letters, the author of some valuable books
and an able member of the bar practising before
the Supreme Court here in Washington.  He
seems disposed to treat the "Mormon" question
with the utmost fairness, and does not, as many
do, count all "Mormons" criminals until they can
prove their innocence.  He is one of the most en-
tertaining conversationalists, brilliant in ideas and
logical in presenting facts.  He is familiar with
the history and records of the old New England
families, and his remembrances of names and
dates, for a man of business, at his time of life,
is something extraordinary.
	To hear some people talk, one would think the 
rights of the "Mormon" people hung by a single
thread, and that was just ready to break and pre-
cipitate them into parts unknown; but their wise-
acres may yet find that there is a strong cord which
holds this peculiar people, whom they count so
ignorant and obstinate, and that neither persecu-
tion nor oppression will break it asunder, try as 
they may.
	All that can be done here in presenting facts
and seeking to remove prejudice, seems only a 
drop in the ocean of public sentiment ar-
rayed against a people struggling with the
effects of falsehood and misrepresentation, but
one must not be weary in well doing even
though the opportunities may be few, and the
prejudice bitter.  Truth is sharp and often forces 
its own way into the human heart, though it may
be an unwelcome guest.  It is amusing to hear
men who hold their judgment in high estimation,
men who have held positions requiring them to
judge and decide important matters say it con-
fuses them to hear the statements made about
the present condition of affairs in Utah, and one
would suppose from their observations, they were
disposed to decide without information, just give a
leap in the dark, and leave the result hap hazard,
knowing too that it must involve much of happi-
ness or misery for those depending upon the
issues.  On one occasion the writer could scarce-
ly refrain from telling a member the old 
story of the judge, who when he had heard the
witnesses on one side of the case, declared he did
not want to hear those who represented the other
side as his mind was already made up.
	There is to be a hearing before the sub-Com-
mittee of Judiciary on the new Edmunds Bill,
etc., to-day and the Delegate from Utah will
speak, also other men of ability, and no doubt
they will present the strongest arguments possi-
ble in favor of the people whose rights are at
stake in the pending measures; but what effect it
will have upon the legislation remains unknown,
and will, in all probability, until the Bill is re-
ported in the House of Representatives.  The
case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow is to be argued
before the Supreme Court of the United States
by Hon. F. S. Richards of Salt Lake City and
George T. Curtis Esq., of Washington, commenc-
ing to-day, but will probably be continued
to-morrow, and may be occupy even more time.
Notwithstanding the prejudice which prevails
so generally against plural marriage we have had
offers from different sources of help in making
unanswerable arguments on the question of right
to practice it, and men have sought out divers
ways by which to substantiate the doctrine and
make the ground legal, as well as moral.  Each 
one thinks his method worth money, and for a 
consideration is willing to experiment believing
he can make the case clear, either before the bar
or through the publication of books on the sub-


ject. Some influential men here, profess to be
afraid of the practice of plural marriage spreading
through the United States, but when among people
who believe it to be a divine command, few of them
will accept it practically, though opportunities are
open to them, it does seem ridiculous to think that 
people outside the Church will be influenced in
favor of the system. No indeed[-] the world are
not good enough; it requires too much sacrifice
of self. It is the fashion and custom of the day
to betray women and cast them aside, to abandon
one's own offspring if illegitimately born, and this
does not bring any burden of support or responsi-
bility upon the man, consequently there is no
need of marriage. Instances of this kind are
about as thick as dandelions in Spring time, and
the facts are undeniable for "figures do not lie."
	In talking with an intelligent bright woman a
few days since upon the matter, she expressed
herself as believing that disreputable houses were
a necessity and when we indignantly protested
she modified it by saying perhaps not for married
men, there was no excuse for them, but for young
men and bachelors. What a terrible reflection
upon the nature of men. One would suppose
virtue to be unknown by those bearing the
honored title of the "lords of creation." Is it not
time that woman as a rational being aroused her-
self to the imperative duties of the age and by
every exertion possible maintain the rights of
women as a class to self-protection? Is it not a
matter of supreme importance that girls be taught
that the majority of the men who walk the earth
as the "protectors of the weaker sex," are in
reality the betrayers of virtue and seducers of in-
nocence? Is there not work enough for women to
do among their sisters in the world without reach-
ing away over to Utah to hunt out a few plural
wives, who have homes and children around them
honorably born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant, which covenant the world no more understand
than though it were an unknown tongue! We
have been told that there are women here in
Washington petitioning for money to found a
home or a sort of asylum for the women and
children who will be left desolate through the en-
forcement of the Edmunds Law. They may as well
understand at once that no Latter-day Saint
woman will accept the situation. Congress may
legislate to make the honored wife an outcast, but
she will be spared all such humiliation as entering
one of those homes; her sorrow will make her
sacred, and the Church of which she is a member
will see that no advantage is taken of the un-
happy situation to add insult to injury or pierce
the cruel wounds more deeply. "Mormons" are
not asking for charity, they are petitioning only
for the rights that every free born man and woman
entitled to under this free government.
	Good Friday with its ceremonials and observ-
ances has come and gone and Easter Sunday
with its church decorations and elaborate display
also. It was my intention to give a description of
these as they were solemnized in the churches here,
but it would make this article too long to add
more, and so that, with many other interesting
items, must be deferred for the present.
	Washington D. C., April 26th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 

	The President, Bishop H. B. Glawson, and the
ladies comprising the Board of Directors and Exe-
cutive Committee of the Deseret Hospital, at a
meeting held in the Hospital parlor, April 12th,
1886, unanimously agreed to publish in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT the following expressions of
their feelings on the demise of their beloved sister
and co-worker, Mrs. Marinda N. Hyde.
	We deeply regret her absence from her usual
chair in committee assembled.  Her ever calm,
cheerful and dignified presence always gave us
assurance of counsel and assistance in our often


arduous duties in the establishment. Her health
had long been failing, but through her firm con-
viction that duty was imperative, and by the aid
of her brave spirit, Sister Hyde was ever found
duly at her post, ready, as far as in her lay, to ful-
fil the important duties of her position. Her kind
heart was ever in sympathy with the sick and
afflicted, and the poor and the needy were her
especial care. In meeting with us, she was un-
pretentious, kind and considerate of the feelings
of her co-workers, and laying out all her ability to
secure love, peace and unity through all the asso-
ciations with which she was connected. Her
life has been one of much trial, but she came
from the furnace as gold purified and refined, and
always retained the cheerful happy spirit of youth,
even to her closing days. We shed the natural
tears of love over her sweet memory, but we know
she has attained a fulness of glory, the rich re-
ward of a Latter-day Saint, and we realize that if
faithful we shall again be re-united with her in
the mansions of unfading bliss.
	Longfellow puts a volume in a sentence, when
he says,

	"There is no death! what seems so is transition,
	This life of mortal breath is but a suburb of the life
		 Elysian,
	Whose portal we call death."

	Sister Hyde will retain a share in the memories
of all with whom she has in any way ever been
associated.
					   E. HOWARD, Ass’t Sec.


[Column 1]
	OUR CHILDREN.

	How many mothers in Zion ever visit the meet-
ings held by the Primary Association? Quitea large
number of the mothers in our ward visit our
Primary once a year; that is when the anniversary
of the organization of the association is celebrated,
and the children and officers get up an entertain-
ment. One of those entertainments was given
last week, and was in every sense of the word a
complete success. Certainly every parent who
attended the children’s entertainment, held in the
afternoon, or the "sociable" in the evening, which
was a continuation of the former, given by the
young ladies to the older members of the ward,
must have felt gratified. But perhaps few realize
how much work must be done by those engaged
in such matters, to bring about such grand success,
or how much good might be done by the parents
visiting the children’s meetings occasionally, and
giving such suggestions and encouragement as
they may have to offer.
	Every father and every mother ought to have
some good and suitable thoughts, the presenting
of which would be a help to any teacher, either in
our Primaries, Sabbath Schools or day schools.
All these institutions are, or should be, great helps
to parents in training their little ones; and should
not each parent feel a profound interest in the
way in which they are conducted, and an anxiety
to aid in their support and constant improvement?
Yes, indeed! and the best way to find out exactly
what and how the children are taught, as well as
to learn what is needed, and whether one can be
of any assistance to those who labor for the salva-
tion of the youth in Zion, is to make frequent
visits to the meetings and schools which are
carried on for the benefit of the young.
	Some parents may have difficulty at times in
persuading their children that Sunday School and
Primary meetings are good places to go to. They
will find that accompanying the little ones them-
selves occasionally will do more to make them like
their meetings and schools than all the arguments
they can offer. “If it is good to go there, why
don't papa and mamma go sometimes,” must be a
natural question in the mind of a child, whether it
is so expressed or not. 
	Almost every parent can find time and oppor-
 
[Column 2]
tunity to visit their own and their neighbor’s child-
ren in their schools and meetings once in a while,
and such chances should never be ignored. “Mu-
tual improvement” is the result of the Primary
meetings quite as much as of those held by our
young gentlemen and ladies, and no true man or
woman will visit our children’s meetings without
feeling refreshed and benefited.
	One more hint. Never scold a child for feeling
disinclined to go to school or meeting. If gentle
persuasion will not render the duty an agreeable
one, harsh words or means will only make it
doubly disagreeable. This afternoon a little six
year old boy was called in from play to get ready
for Primary. He said he did not want to go, he
was tired; did not want his face washed nor his
hair brushed. These smaller difficulties, however,
were soon overcome, and he was made ready, but
still did not want to go. His mother proposed to
go with him, which rendered matters somewhat
better, but still he preferred not to go, and said
he felt sick. The mother took him and his brother
into a room by themselves and knelt down with
them to pray, telling them to repeat the words
after her. A short, appropriate prayer was offered
up, and then the little fellow was told to go and
lie down on his bed while his mother should get
ready for meeting, and that if he then wished to
stay at home he might do so. Before the mother
had quite finished her preparations, the boy got
up and put on his cap, ready and willing to ac-
company her and his brother to meeting. The
first hymn had been sung, and prayer was being
offered when they reached the schoolhouse; this
fact caused the mother to reflect that in the future
preparations for Primary must be commenced a
little earlier, to make time for unlooked for hin-
drances, which are always liable to occur. She
had gained a point with her son, however, for
which she felt thankful.
							LULA.
	April 29th, 1886.


PUBLIC QUESTIONS WHICH CANNOT
		BE SUPPRESSED.

	Rev. James Freeman Clarke, in a sermon pub-
lished in the last issue of that excellent paper, 
the Saturday Evening Gazette, speaks of woman
suffrage as follows: 
	Another question which cannot be suppressed
is woman suffrage. On the principles of aristo-
cratic or oligarchal government of a few, then
there may be reasons for confining suffrage to
men. If we believe in the government of the
people, by the people, and for the people, no such
reason can be found. Women are a part of the
people no less than men. The interests of all 
women, including wives and mothers, possessing
property, and needing more protection than men
need, ought to be represented by themselves in
the legislation and administration of the country. 
Think of Boston, with not a woman on the school
committee,* while a majority of the teachers are 
women, and more than half the children are girls. 
Think of the hospitals and asylums and the
homes for the destitute where no woman has a
place or a voice. And yet you tell us that the 
office of the woman is to make a happy home, to
bring up children, to take care of the sick and
suffering! What mockery to say this, and then to
shut her out of the places where she is most need-
ed! In most of the hospitals of Boston the
trustees and directors are exclusively men. The
Board of Directors for the Public Institutions
consists of nine men, without one woman. They
have charge of the houses industry and refor-
mation, the alms-houses for men and women, the 
homes for neglected boys and girls. They may 
do perfectly well all that men can do, but men do
not understand much about the details which
make the home comfortable, the nursing of the 
sick, the treatment of children. The overseers


or through the publication of books on the subject
of the Poor consist of twelve men and no women.
Among the poor are women and children, and it
would seem only reasonable that women should
be on this board also. The City Hospital is un-
der the charge of seven trustees, all men. Such
is the case now with our public city charities;
they are all in the hands of men. The State
charities are managed,—women are put on some
of the boards. But even private charities are
governed largely by men. Take, for example, the
Perkins Institution for the Blind, which includes
as inmates men and women; it is governed by
twelve trustees, all men. The Boston Provident
Association is directed by fifteen managers, all
men. The Children's Hospital, where one would
think that the experience of women would be es-
pecially valuable, has twelve managers, without
one woman among them. And the Boston Lying-
in Hospital has ten trustees, six physicians, and
four other officers, all men. Such a state of things
is only possible where, in consequence of woman's
being excluded from the ballot, it is unconsciously
assumed that she is not fit to be on any board of
government. This absurd state of things has 
come unconsciously, not intentionally; it is a
habit not a conviction. Give woman the habit
and you will find her soon placed wherever she
can be useful.
	By the exclusion of women from the ballot, one-
half of the citizens of the country are excused
from taking their part in public duties; they are
taught not to think about public affairs, educated
to take no interest in their country's fortunes,
to exercise no open womanly influence in refining
public morals and softening public manners. We
practically say to them, "We do not want your
aid; we can do better without you." And they
take us at our word. Then their indifference to
public affairs, and to the interests of the nation,
make those who associate with them less inter-
ested. Whatever powers God has given them are
excluded from their noble field of duty. Their
consciences are taught to remain torpid; their
hearts cold in regard to great national questions
and public responsibilities. And then, when we
have taught them to be indifferent, we use this
indifference as an argument, and say, "Oh, women
do not wish to vote. When they wish for the
ballot, they shall receive it." Who does wish to
vote? Not you, not I—we vote because it is our
duty. Shall men and women escape their re-
sponsibilities by saying, "We do not wish to meet 
them?" You say, "if the ballot could be given
only to intelligent women, we should willingly
accept woman suffrage." But is not knowledge
power? When you open the same opportunity to
knowledge and to ignorance, will not knowledge 
get the best of it! "Yes," you reply, "if
measured by weight; but not by number. In
voting, the ignorant woman will be equal to the
wisest." So the vote of an ignorant man will
balance that of the greatest statesman. But for
all that, we carry questions by argument,
by persuasion, by the force of facts, by
the power of truth. An ignorant majority is the
raw material out of which a wise majority is soon-
er or later to be manufactured. By adding women
voters to men, you double the number of voters,
and thus you diminish by one-half the chances of
bribery, and of those political tricks which take
time and money to accomplish. You introduce
into politics and public work the womanly power
which Christian civilization has brought into
families, neighborhoods, society, education, litera-
ture, art and religion. Wherever this womanly
element works with the manly element, good
comes. Wherever man works by himself apart
from woman, he loses a good influence. This
question cannot be suppressed; it is sure to rise
above all opposition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	ARMENIAN SKETCHES.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The EXPONENT continues to appear regular-
ly, and, if I am not mistaken, is read from and
translated unto some women and daughters of
the Armenian people. Bro. Tanner and my-
self also acknowledge the receipt of the EXPON-
ENT for ourselves, and as we are afraid it might
be taken as an insult if we should send the
money for our copy, we thought of showing
our thankfulness in some other way. When
he and Bro. Lyman left for Greece, Egypt
and Palestine, three weeks ago, he said that 
the EXPONENT thould be remembered by him.
	He has forwarded to one of the sisters a 
book, which treats in an able way about this
city and the inhabitants thereof. In a long
chapter the author says a good many things
about Turkish women, so that nothing re-
mains for me to add. Most of what he says is
correct; where he exaggerates to please fancy,
the sisters will easily detect the mistakes, es-
pecially, also, in those places where the writer
comments on principles which he does not
thoroughly understand. Knowing this book
now within easy reach of the EXPONENT, it 
would be uselesss to write any more about the 
women of the Mohammedan faith.
	The author says, speaking of the Armenians,
that he had no chance of entering the house 
of an Armenian. I was more favored, and
have been in several Armenian homes. Their
cleanliness and neatness give a very favorable 
impression to the visitor. When a stranger
enters the house, the ladies therein do not
have to retire, as the Turkish are requested to
do. They do not talk much, but watch with
open eyes and ears. The religion and people
of the Latter-day Saints are misrepresented
also to them, and for this reason an Elder may
at times hear some straight questions. When
one of these aged mothers sits down on the
divan, takes her old folio Bible upon her lap,
and with the readiness of a scribe, finds points
to argue on or to ask about, and then fixes her
eyes full upon the man who professes to bring
some great good news, the thus interviewed
begins to understand the irony with which
Armenian newspapers make fun of western
people because they don't know whether Arme-
nians are Christians or not. Yes, they are
Christains, and I can say that great faith in
the Lord is found among them, faith that has 
been answered by remarkable healings.
	The Armenians dissented from the Catholic
Church at the time of the "Nestorian" and
"Monophys" quarrels, and since then have
remained a Christian community of their own.
As far as I can judge, these old Armenians 
were a good deal nearer the truth than their
opponents. It was (according to the French
writer, Eugene Boré,), in the year 596, that
the Patriarch Abraham gathered the ten
archbishops of Armenia at Tauris, then the
capital of the kingdom, and there they pro-
nounced an anathema against the fourth synod
of Chaladon and Pope Leon. No wonder that
the Catholics never liked the Armenians much,
and that in the seventeenth century the print-
ing office of the learned Armenian Matthew
Vanatetzi in Marseille was destroyed at the
instigation of the Jesuits, and that Louis XIV
denied protection to the Armenians in France,
notwithstanding the famous letter in which
the Archbishop Daniel at Tulfa, near Teheran,
pleaded for his countrymen. They were com-
pelled to remove their office and labors to Am-
sterdam, in Holland. Stupendous were the 
works of the great and learned Arem[-]nian Mek-
hitar (died 1749) and his disciples and fol-
lowers, the Mekhitarites; and the study of Ar-
menian history, geography, language and litera-
ture is a continual source of surprise and as-
tonishment.
	The Armenians not unfrequently smile at

[Column 2]
the ignorance of western Christians concerning
the old country of the Lusignans and the pos-
terity of Haik, who is said to have gone with
his family from the tower of Babel and peo-
pled High—Armenis. It was the Armenian
King, Abgar, who sent a letter unto Jesus, in-
viting Him to come to his land; "I heard say
that the Jews are persecuting and seeking to 
destroy Thee. I have a small, charming town
large enough for both of us, where we could
live in peace." The Apostle Thomas sent
afterwards Thaddeus, one of the Seventies, to
convert Armenia, and soon the Apostle Bar-
tholemew followed; but the population re-
mained indifferent to a "Semitic civilization;"
only the inhabitants of Edessa were baptized
to "please the king and gain his favors." The
general conversion of the Armenians took
place in the time of the Roman empire Diocle-
tian and the Armenian king Tiridate, through
the labors of Gregory Luzavoritch (the Illumi-
nator) the patient sufferer of thirteen year's
imprisonment in the subterranean dungeon, and
not until after the fearful terrors which the
two "Armenian Saintesses," Rhipsimae and
Gayanae, had to endure for their fidelity to
principle. The following is a short summary
taken from a French orientalist: "Diocletian,
who lived at the time of King Tiridate, fell
desperately in love with a Christian girl--
Rhipsimae, who lived in Rome with other
virgins under the direction of their superior,
named Gayanae. In order to escape the pas-
sion of the Emperor, Rhipsimae left for Ar-
menia with her companions. There they
lived in the province Ararat at Nagbarshabad,
sustained by the work of one of the girls who
understood the manufacture of glass. Diocle-
tian sent all over his empire and tributary lands
to find the escaped Rhipsimae. When the
men of Tiridate had found her, the latter
wanted her for himself. She refused the hea-
then king. Gayanae was brought, a rope 
around her neck, to speak in favor of Tiridate.
In the Latin language she exhorted Rhipsimae
to persist in her resolution, notwithstanding
that the guards maltreated both of them. The
strong-minded Christian girl had first her
tongue cut out, then her eyes plucked out, then
was tied to four posts, burnt with torches and
finally beaten to death with stones. Gayanae
and the others were also put to death under
similar sufferings. Soon after this the king
took sick, lost his reason, and the whole royal
family was sunk into deep affliction. However,
by the manifestations of dreams and great
visions, Gregory Luzavoritch was again
brought to remembrance. They took him
from the dungeon; he healed the king (by
means of a plant) and, so it is reported by
the Armenian historian Agathange, 190,000
were christianized the same day with the
king’s family. Tiridate died 314.[-]
	The Armenian people and their priests, in 
later trials, proved their faith at sundry times.
During the government of the east Roman
emperor Arcadius the land of Armenia was
divided between him and Persia. Khosrow
was the last of the Arsacedes, the old royal
family of the Armenians, and after his death
Armenia was governed by Marzbans, Persian
officers. In 439 Iesdedyerd II ascended the
Persian throne. He endeavored to stop the
progress of the Christian faith in Armenia,and
to substitute the religion of the Mages. Some
of the Armenian satrapies thought it wise to
obey the Persian king; but the bulk of the
people and the priests resisted. Iesdedyerd,
instigated by the Mages, sent a great army to 
enforce the denial of the Christian faith. The
archbishops, under the presidency of Patriarch
Joseph, returned a reply full of submission to
the tyrant, but at the same time declaring that
they would sooner perish than abandon their
religion. They were at once summoned before
the king and imprisoned. The Armenians


[Column 1]
waged a terrible war against the Persian armies
and although the terrific battle of Avaraia
was lost and the brave leader, Vartan, fell
(2nd of June, 451) the Christians with un-
broken courage continued the resistance in
their towering mountains. In these gloomy
times the Huns appeared on the Persian boun-
daries in countless numbers, defeated the
soldiers, and in these misfortunes the Mages
declared they saw the anger of the Persian
God because the Christian bishops were yet
alive. Isededyerd was urged to execute the im-
prisoned Joseph and his brethren. They were 
tortured, and as none of them would flinch, 
brought to death in a horrible way. The re-
ligious war went on in mad fury, and after the
death of Isededyerd and his successor, Berose,
who fell in a combat against the Huns, Arme-
nia had peace once more in its blood drenched,
grandious mountain-island.
	In the time of the rise of Islamism and the
invasion of the Arabs, unhappy Armenia
looked upon ghastly scenes. One of her histo-
rians writes: "Under the government of
Abd-el-Melik, son of Meroan, our seigniors and
princes, the nobles and all of the Satrap race,
enveloped in a complete destruction, were ex-
terminated in streams of blood." (Mark this
Armenian style.) It is too long to give the
translation of these shocking events. It may
be sufficient to say that in some places whole
churches full of Armenians, who would not
deny, were burnt to death, but they died sing-
ing songs of praise, and the parents forgot
their own tortures in seeing the fire falling up-
on their children. Subsequently made equal
by the same fate, they all perished unto the
last, when at the same time and at different
places, often a handful of brave Armenians
defeated great numbers of their enemies. 
Christianity remained, although sometimes 
almost choked in blood by all the adversaries
round about. 
	It would be of high interest to cast a glance
upon the Armenian literature. Wonderful 
works are found therein, down from Moses of
Khorene and Elisee in the "golden era," fourth
and fifth century, until the renaissance period
of Little Armenia and the learned men of re-
cent date. "The written monuments of the
Armenians," says a French author, "are not 
behind the master pieces of Greece and
Rome." 
	On the 24th of May, 1860, the 200,000 Ar-
menians of Constantinople adopted for them-
selves a Constitution, and this was sanctioned
by the Sublime Porte, the 17th of March 1863. 
Since that time the the public instruction has
made rapid progress; Armenian schools have 
been opened through almost the whole Turkish
empire, and a vigorous and well conducted
journalism throws an increasing flood of light
over this highly intelligent nation. Many of
the richer classes have their children educated 
in Germany, France or England, others have
teachers at home for music and languages. 
The Armenian missionaries have also opened
schools. Within the last thirty years some
Armenians have left their old church and be-
come Catholics or Protestants. Quite a good
number of Quakers are also to be found, and
these are under very able guidance, and still
show the spirit of their noble founders—
George Fox and William Penn. 
	The bodily strength of the Armenians ham-
als (the porters of Constantinople) is pro-
verbial, as is also their general honesty. The
ability of the young Armenians to learn
foreign languages is astonishing, and, as a mat-
ter of course, everything which is desirable to
be learned. To-day, many men of high rank
in Turkey are Armenians, and Loris Melikoff,
the noted Russian general, is of the same na-
tionality. 
	But another thing is a fruit of the nine-
teenth century. What never was reached by 

[Column 2]
the swords of the Persians, Mongols, Greeks,
Arabs, Mamelukes and Seldchoukians—the
overthrow of the old Armenian faith—seems
going to be accomplished by the French litera-
ture of infidelity and skepticism. Many don't 
believe anything more; others see the defects
of so called Christianity, and have lost confi-
dence in every denomination. But then there
are some who are too well gifted and too
much learned not to know that the Father of 
the universe will, sometimes, and just in time, 
provide for His wanting children, when the old 
forms are giving way. 
	The Lord has already established the founda-
tion of His final kingdom on earth as a stand-
ard for every kindred, tongue and people. 
	There is a voice from the hill of Cumorah, a
voice hidden in the time of the Armenian 
"golden era." There is a voice from a dying
Prophet out of a bloodstained jail in Illinois; 
there is a voice from a whole people trodden 
down, yet always growing during the past
fifty-six years; there is a voice from prisoners
bowed down by white haired age and venerated
for their integrity; and hark, a voice from ill
treated mothers, women and sisters of an un-
justly persecuted people in yonder mountains, 
and the while their fathers, husbands and 
brothers are incarcerated for their most holy
faith, these modern Deborahs carry on, in set-
tled confidence, the work of human enfranchise-
ment, not only laboring for themselves, but
toiling for the benefit of Adam's whole family. 
"The rights of the women of every nation" is
no empty word, but it can never be realized
save upon the principles of true religion. The
greatest German writer said: "Wilt thou ex-
actly learn what is becoming, simply inquire of
noble-minded women." But then, woe unto
apostate Christianity and its train of evil conse-
quences, for behold, the noblest mothers in
this century are rising indignantly to judge it,
are living and suffering to advocate and propa-
gate another religion, the religion of true
liberty and real peace, the religion of the
coming millenium, the long lost, long sought
for, and at last restored religion of truth, the
everlasting Gospel of God and His Christ. 
	May the Lord bless His people and en-
lighten every honest soul throughout this whole
planet, is the the prayer of
			Your brother, 
							J. S. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
    R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			NEPHI.
	The quarterly conference of Juab Stake Re-
lief Society convened in the Nephi Tabernacle
at 10 a.m., April 9th, 1886, Prest. Mary
Pitchforth presiding. The branches were re-
ported by their Presidents in a favorable and
commendable manner; the members were alive
to their duties, and striving to prove them-
selves loyal to the principles of truth.
   Prest. Mary Pitchforth, Prest. Marinda By-
ran, Coun. Amy Bigler and others offered in-
teresting and spirited remarks, filled with ad-
vice and counsel to the sisters, to live their
religion, keep a strict watchcare over their
children, and to educate them and prepare
them for usefulness in the kingdom of God.
   Coun. Charles Sperry, Bishop David Udall
and several other brethren were present, and
took part in praising God for the many bless-
ings He has bestowed upon us as a people, and
counseling and encouraging the sisters in their
good work of providing for the needy and
comforting those in distress. The speeches
were interspersed with songs and recitations,
making in all a very pleasant and interesting
time. After singing and benediction, the
conference adjourned for three months.
   Owing to a visit from the diphtheria fiend

[Column 2]
in  the month of March, our meetings  and
schools were suspended for few weeks; our
conference was also postponed until the present
date.
				M. E. BUCKHOLT, Sec.

		   LOGAN FIFTH WARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As it is seldom anything appears in your
valuable paper from this part of the Lord's
vineyard, I hope you will accept a few lines.
	We have a branch of the Primary Associa-
tion here, and it has been growing for five
years, under the kind and faithful nursing and
care of Sister Priscilla Jacobs and her Coun-
selors, and it has become a source of much 
comfort and delight to all who behold it.  Es-
pecially was that the case last Saturday, when
its annual conference was held in the school-
house as an anniversary.  Present on the stand
were Sister J. Molen, President of the Pri-
mary of this Stake and her Counselors, Bishop
Hyde and his Counselors, Sisters Margaret
Young, Nancy Clark and others, also many
parents, who had assembled with the children
to listen to the exercises; these consisted of
songs, dialogues, essays, recitations, and select
readings, interspersed with short speeches from
the brethren and sisters.  Much excellent
counsel and valuable instruction was given.
The spirit and power of God was poured out
upon the speakers to such an extent that the
gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof
was enjoyed by some of the sisters.  At the
close of the forenoon meeting, a sumptuous
dinner was partaken of in another room by
old and young, and all seemed to enjoy the
physical as well as the spiritual food. 
	In the afternoon another short but spirited
meeting was held; then the conference closed.
The whole day was one continued feasting on
the good things of heaven and of earth, and,
 no doubt, will have good results, for it will
long be remembered by those who were pres-
ent.
			  METTINE OLSEN, Secretary.

		      MARICOPA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Since the last report there has been a re-
organization of the Relief Society of Mesa, of
which Mrs. Mabel Ann Hakes is now Presi-
dent; Mrs. Adelaide Allen and Ann Sirrine,
Counselors; Agnes McDonald, Secretary; Bar-
bara Lang, Treasurer; Sarah M. Pomeroy,
Stake Secretary.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Maricopa Stake was held March 27th,
 at 1 p.m., at the Relief Society Hall of Mesa
City, Stake President E. G. McDonald presid-
ing.  Reports were given of the Mesa, Lehi,
Alma and Tempe Societies.  They were very
encouraging, and served to show there was an
increase of faith and good works among the
members, and a great zeal in attending their
meetings.
	Sister Susan Savage reported that the Papa-
go Ward had no organized Society, but the
native sisters were very anxious to learn the
ways of civilized life, and were very much in-
terested in their studies, and they, especially
the younger ones, were improving rapidly.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt truly thankful
that she had so far been preserved as to be able
to meet with the sisters in conference, but still
felt very weak.  She desired to live to do good,
and prayed that we might have the Spirit of
the Lord to direct us through our conference.
	Coun. Morris made some encouraging re-
marks, and desired to live the life of a Saint,
after which a number of brethren were called
upon.  Bishop Oscar Stuart, in his remarks,
said the nearer we try to live to God, the more
opposition we shall experience from the evil


one. We should expect trials, for they are
necessary to keep us in the right track.
	Bro. James Allen showed in a forcible man-
mer the necessity of each one living up to his
duties and privileges, that we may have a good
record to show on earth and in heaven.
	Bro. C. Hakes said he had been reflecting
upon the circumstances that surrounded us as
a people, and thought the principle of religious
liberty was being pretty well tested. Our
brethren were being imprisoned or driven into
exile for their religious belief, contrary to the
Constitution, and the government is violating
its principles in regard to our people. The
Lord has spoken and revealed His will to us,
and we are called upon to obey it. We should
watch ourselves and pray for strength to resist
every evil influence.
	Bro. Henry Rogers had felt pride in listen-
ing to the remarks and testimonies of the
brethren and sisters. He had been reflecting
concerning the “down-trodden women of Utah.”
Read the account of the Ladies' Mass Meeting
in Salt Lake; hear their soul-stirring appeals,
their noble patriotism, their bold defense of
right, does this look like oppression? He felt
it a blessed thing to be a Latter-day Saint. The
wheat and tares should grow together until the
harvest. We were right where the Lord
wanted us to be—where we could have an op-
portunity of doing good to the natives. The
speaker asked God's blessing upon those who
were laboring so faithfully amongst them.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt that we had re-
ceived some excellent teaching, and hoped we
would profit by it. Let us not judge each
other harshly, but let us examine our own
hearts and see if they are right, and strive to
overcome our weaknesses. Let those who are
called to be teachers, go forth in the spirit of
their calling, that they may be a blessing and
benefit to those they are called to visit. Sisters,
let us never speak against the principle of ce-
lestial marriage. Let us sustain every true
principle that is consonant with our holy re-
ligion.
	Her discourse was replete with good coun-
sel and encouragement to those who listened
to her. Our hearts were filled with thankful-
ness, that we once more had our beloved Presi-
dent with us, who had so recently recovered
from a severe illness, from which, at one time,
there was but little prospect of her recovery,
but through faith and prayer and good nurs-
ing, she was again with us, and we appreciated
the blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, “Lord dismiss us,” etc. Prayer by C.
Hakes.
			SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	White Cake.—The whites of three eggs, one cup of
white sugar, a half a cup of butter, a half cup of sweet
milk, two teaspoons of baking powder.

	Pearl Cake—Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar,
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, whites of five eggs,
baking powder, flavor with bitter almonds.

	Don't flirt dirt from one price of furniture to another
and call it dusting, but take it up carefully in a dusting-
cloth and shake it from the window.

	To Clean Bottles.—Put into the bottle some kernels of
corn, a tablespoonful of ashes, pour it half full of water,
and after a vigorous shaking and rincing you will find the
bottle as good as new.

	For a harness blacking, use bone-black, four ounces;
linseed-oil, two ounces; sulphuric acid, half an ounce;
treacle, two ounces; gum-arabic, one ounce; vinegar, one
pint.

	To Clean Cashmere.—Take three large spoonfuls of beef
gall to a pailful of water, put in the cloth and wash, then
put it in warm water to rinse. Take out without wringing.
Let it drain, and fold it down to iron before it dries.

	Decay of the teeth has three chief causes: weakness of
constitution, indigestion, and lack of cleanliness; so keep


your teeth in good order, be careful of your diet, and brush
your teeth with a little borax and water night and morning.
Also have the decayed teeth filled or extracted, as they
are a source of injury to the others.

	To make tea to perfection, boiling water must be poured
on the leaves directly it boils. Water which has been
boiling more than five minutes, or which has previously
boiled, should on no account be used. If the water does
not boil, or if it be allowed to overboil, the leaves of the
tea will be only half opened, and the tea itself will be quite
spoiled. The water should be allowed to remain on the
leaves from ten to fifteen minutes.

	Snow Pudding.—Pour one pint of cold water on a half
box of "Coe's" gelatine, set this into boiling water until
dissolved. Add to this two cups of sugar, and the juice of
two lemoms. When nearly cold add the whites of two
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, heat all together until very
light, or thick. Put into a glass dish, make a soft custard
of the yokes of the eggs, one pint of milk and two table-
spoons of sugar. Set to cool, and just before serving pour
the custard over the snow or around it.


[Column 1]
	CURE FOR DIPHTHERIA.

	Dr. Delthil, a French physician, has discovered that the
vapors of liquid tar and turpentine dissolve the fibrinous
exudations which choke up the throat in croup and diph-
theria. He pours equal parts of turpentine and liquid tar,
say two tablespoonfuls of each, into a tin pan or cup and
sets fire to the mixture. A dense resinous smoke arises
which obscures the air of the room. "The patient," says
Dr. Delthil, "immediately seems to experience relief; the
choking and rattling stop, the patient falls into a slumber
and seems to inhale the smoke with pleasure. The fibrin-
ous membrane soon becomes detached, microbes are
coughed up; these when caught in a glass may be seen to
dissolve in the smoke. In the course of three days after-
ward the patient entirely recovers." 
	It is claimed that the experiment has been successfully
tried in this country, and certainly it is so simple and
harmless as to recommend itself for trial. Even if it failed 
to do good, it could assuredly be productive of nor harm.

Class in Obstetrics. 
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a Class in Obstetrics on
	May 3d, 1886, at 2 p.m., at her
	Office, No. 16 Main Street. 
TUITION, per term, - - - $10.00.
	Dr. Shipp's office hours are from 10 a. m., to 5 p. m. 
Her residence is 34 Seventh East Street. 
	The doctor has given special study to Obstetrics and
Women's Diseases.

F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 
			
For Sale at this Office. 
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW. 
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, - 25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, $1.00			"
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 1.50		"

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address. DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age! 
5,000 Now in Use in Utah
[text on left side of image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple! 
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[text on right side of image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Maching. It has been
in the Market 23 Years
[text below image] Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building, 
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 
			
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865. 
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and production
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
