Vol. 14		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1886.			No. 15.


VALE, 1885. 
In silence, and alone, I watching, wait;
Something I have known is in departing,
I listen for the iron tongue of Time
To start the revealing requiem!—hush!
The clock, my timely monitor, strikes twelve;
'Tis the noon of night—the year is gone—
Eighteen eighty-five is in eternity!
Pass on old year—my hand I kiss to thee,
And no regret is lurking in my heart!
Thou wert a link in life's all mystic chain,
And in thy transit scattered joy and grief
And health and sickness, wealth and poverty,
With all the chequered scenes of earthly life,
To many, thou hast proved a jewel'd link,
To others, sorrow and bereavement sad.
Silence is the only voice whose whisperings
Opening the reservoir of memory,
Unfolds volumes to my spirit ear—
Thou hast performed thy mission unto all,
And now art gone to render thy report.

This link—this infant of eternity
Comes to all mortals laden with events,
And in its record will reveal a tale
Of battles won, of glory o'er defeat.

Life is a mighty boon!  little know we
Its power to bestow or take away,
But all must know that in its transit
Is a school thro' whose exact gradations
Al, the human family must pass!
Blest are those students who enter wisely
And steadily, to learn the lessons taught.
To cultivate those organs, heart and brain,
Organs that germinate immortality!
Developing the divinity within,
That spark that revivifies the dead!

Old year, I do not lightly bow thee out—
My heart is full of gratitude and love,
The hand of God is ever broodingly
Above the righteous—the veil is thin
That hides its presence from the mortal eye;
But the rapt soul in holy adience
Feels the incense of His presence tangibly!

The past is past! and I have no regrets,
For if I stumbled, I a lesson learned,
To walk more wisely and more cautiously;
If sickness, or privation, then I learned
How grand is health—and nearer God I drew.

When all seems bankrupt on the earth to us,
Then cries out our soul, "Nearer, my God, to Thee;"
So to the righteous all is well—pass on [unreadable]
Old year—welcome the child of eighty-five [unreadable]
The new-born Heir, entitled, eighty-six [unreadable]
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, 1885-1886.


[Column 1]

THE DEATH OF THE YEAR.

	In this part of the world October is con-
sidered the month of falling leaves. The poet
John Fletcher understood this, and tells the
light in which he view it:

		"He that will to bed go sober,
		Falls with the leaves still in October."

	Some of Sir Walter Scott's descriptions re-
call many a fantastic scene to those who have
never beheld the landscapes he has painted in
such glowing colors. The following lines,
though having a local application, will suggest
to every lover of nature a picture oft seen;
though perhaps in different framings:

"Autumn departs, but still his mantle fold,
	Rests of the groves of noble Somerville,
Beneath a cloud of russet draped with gold.
	Hoarser the wind, and deeper sounds the rill,

[Column 2]

Yet lingering notes of sylvan music swell—
	The deep-toned cushat and the red-breast shrill.
And yet some tints of summer splendor dwell
	Where the broad sun sinks down on Ettrick's western
		fell."

	Shelley's lines on the dying year possess a
coloring that is singularly autumnal in many
particulars.

		The warm sun is failing,
		The bleak wind is wailing,
		The bare boughs are sighing,
		The pale flowers are dying,
			And the year
		On the earth, her death bed,
		In a shroud of leaves dead
			Is lying.
		Come, months, come away,
		From November to May,
		In your saddest array
			Follow the bier
		Of the dead, cold year,
		And like dim shadows watch by her sepulchre."

	While Tom Hood, in his odd style, gives a
quaint drawing of the approach of winter:

			"Boughs are daily rifled
				By the dusty thieves;
			And the book of nature
				Getteth short of leaves."

	But of all poets, none ever told the tale of
autumn in sweeter or truer tones than did
Bryant:

"The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,
Of wailing winds, and naked woods and meadows brown
	and sere;
Heeped in the hollows of the grove the autumn leaves lie
	dead;
They rustle with the eddying gust and to the rabbit's tread;
The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the
	joy.
And from the wood top calls the crow through all the
	gloomy day."

	Notwithstanding the great number of trees
and shrubs in this land, one does not see such
a variety of autumn tints as in Utah. The
brilliant colors of autumn in a mountainous
region, clothing the hills, as they do, in such
gorgeous hues that the eye is filled with a
picture of ineffable brilliance, are unknown
here. The reason is easily given. In Utah
the frost comes while the leaf is still in the
vigor of life, and turns it into colors of indes-
cribable loveliness, each species of vegetation
having a tint peculiar to [---]. The con[---]
of endless living colors [---] in that divine
harmony which distance always gives, produces
a combination of such brilliant hues as painter,
in his wildest aspirations, never dreamed of
seeing realized on canvas. But in Ireland, the
frost creeps on slowly. The leaves are already
changing from the prevailing green to a
deadened brown by the process natural to
vegetable life; and by the time autumn nights
bring that nipping air we sometimes feel on
summer evenings, the leaves have lost their vi-
tality, and every gust of wind sends them
trembling and eddying to the ground like snow
flakes, while the boughs are bereft and denuded.
The beech, of trees that are not evergreen,
holds its garb longest and is often a brilliant
yellow, particularly if it be small and the
leaves are on new and tender wood. The long
and ever visible hawthorne hedges soon lose
their apparel; its leaves dry up, curl and turn
a dull dead brown in painful contrast with the
fresh and still green foliage and long arms of
the blackberry, which runs through and

[Column 3]

through the hedges, intertwining itself with the
more vigorous, if not more hardy, thorn.
The fir, the laurel, the yew and the juniper re-
tain their undying green, which winter seems
only to make still brighter. The holly, with
its polished, jagged leaves and bright red
berries, is ever the picture of life and loveliness,
of which the eye never tires, and which is full
of such joyous suggestions as gladden the heart
and bring back the memory of many happy
days that have gone with many a painful sigh
and many a heartache. Viewing a grove in
the distance, some approach to a bright red
may be seen; and there are at times innumer-
able shades of yellow and endless varieties of
subdued brown and russet; but one looks in
vain for those fiery tints which seem to set the
groves aflame and which brighten and make
beautiful the deadest of surroundings, such as
are common in countries of lighter atmosphere
and more sudden frosts. In the meadows,
where trees sometimes stand out bare and alone,
the fallen leaves, partially buried in the grass,
turn it, or seem to turn it, yellow, or brown, or
red and at times a dark, inky hue, as in the
case of the copper-leafed beech. The pathways
are covered with rustling leaves and in glens
and groves and along the banks of the brooks,
where one, in other regions, often times sees so
much that is brilliant and striking and lovely,
the same dreary brown hue only increases the
prevailing monotony.
	We are not entirely bereft of flowers. The
modest daisy still timidly lifts its unassuming
head and offers a singularly vigorous resistance
to the encroachments of King Frost; an
occasional dandelion puts in a half starved
appearance; a few clover blossoms even yet are
warmed by the sunshine when it strikes some
sequestered spot. Half buried in the grass
and always wet with dew, even on the warmest
days, one may still detect a small, sweet yellow
flower, rising from a creeping vine of singular
beauty, but of a name unknown to me. The
hawberries do add life and would do more so
were it not for the absence of that green which
is the charm of the holly. The pink tips of
willow bushes and of "sallies" also produce a
cheerful effect seen at a distance while follow-
ing the windings of some uncomplaining
"burn;" and the golden yellow of the sand
lends a richness to the surroundings and begets
a sense of mantling beauty such as suggests
brighter scenes and adds a lustre to the mental
picture that is felt after the original has been
left behind. The cuckoo left long since; the
corn crake is a thing of the past; the robin still
lingers; but the swallow has departed and that
tiny biped, the wren, is no longer a habitue of
the umbrageous ash. The crow and the jack-
daw now maintain an undisputed reign.
	On a bright, frosty day, there seem to be in-
dications of more vivid colors; but on the return
of dull, drowsy weather (in which the atmos-
phere is charged with moisture, not heavy
enough to fall, but so dense that the smoke
sinks lazily to the ground and hides itself
away amid the fast bleaching grass), the signs
of brightness fade and the dead tints and
monotonous hues return also. I have seen an
autumn afternoon so like an Indian summer
that one could scarce tell the difference. Light,
dreamy clouds floated away through the hea-
vens, softening the bright rays of the sun
which would, however, burst through at times
in floods of golden light, while warm tints
flitted hither and thither through the azure
space or faded slowly away as if wishing still


[Column 1]
to linger in sight of the fair world resting so
calmly beneath. A blue mist, like an ethereal
vail, hung over the earth, and clothed the
hills in a sleepy haze that soothed the weary
spirit and seemed to share the longings and
shed a balm o'er the sorrows of the heart. The
smoke, ascending languidly into the azure
depths above, floated away over the city, while
over all brooded that calm and dreamy air
which one feels on rare Sabbath evenings in
midsummer. In the fields the kine nibbled
lazily at the grass or dozed in the sunlight; the
noisy crow and jackdaw were silent; the haw-
thorne hedge harbored no twittering bird and
the dry leaves that filled the way-side hollow,
were undisturbed by the faintest zephyr. Out
from among the half-bared trees peered the
white-walled cots of the farmer, seeming to be
whiter than ever seen through the blue mist
that hovered round; the mills, with their never
ending and interminable noise appeared de-
serted by the multitude that flock to and from
them morn and eve, enjoyed the stillness of
the tomb; in the city seemed the silence of
death; while the spires of the innumerable
churches lifted their gilded fronts away into
the hazy atmosphere, far above the surround-
ing trees, and seemed, as they solemnly pointed
their fingers heavenward, to pierce the bosom
of the blue vault; the ocean, too, had at last
succumbed to the spirit of rest, for it stretched
placidly away into that distance where the blue
film and pulseless wave melted into each other
and were lost.

"The day becomes more solemn and serene
When noon is past; there is a harmony
In autumn, and a lustre in its sky
Which, through the summer, is not heard or seen,
As it could not be, as if it had not been."

	As the days creep on, the trees and hedges
become bare; the fields lose their verdant hue, 
and though snow has not yet fallen, neverthe-
less summer and autumn are clearly past and
we sadly wait the coming of winter's shroud
that the picture of desolation may be complete.
Each day brings its changes—every tree has
its peculiarities of coloring scarcely less naked
than the tints of the different leaves; and yet
there is a dreary sense of monotony which one
finds difficulty in resisting. There is infinitely
greater sameness of color in spring, but it is
never so oppressive—spring is welcome as the
forerunner of summer flowers and of autumnal
tints no less than for its own freshness and
wealth of green; while for autumn, when upon
us, it never creates that elasticity of spirit we
experience in spring, because every denuded
bough, every dull day, the wailing of the wind
through leafless trees, the brown fields, and
even the brilliantly burned leaf, tell of the
burial of nature and of winter which is doubly
drear to the poor, the hungry, the half-clad
and to the wanderer, even though the comforts
of life may be his in abundance.
	If it is possible to tell a story too often, then
it would seem that the tale of autumn has too
often been told. And yet, there is a freshness
about it just as there is newness in the regular-
ly recurring seasons. Who does not know
what soft skies, purple hills so near and yet
seemingly afar off, betoken! Who, when he
hears the rustle of a dry leaf, as it falls from
above his head and is hurried along by the
playful wind, or listens to the sober cawing of
the crow, or catches the first glimpse of brown
in the shorn meadow, or sees the russet tint
timidly peeping out from among the green and
heavy foliage, that does not feel a subdued
sadness come over his spirits, however buoyant
they may be, however radiantly his sun of life
may be shining? There is a tender depression
in all these, and the "gentle melancholy" they
awaken is among the best moods to which
mankind is subject, for it turns our thoughts
back upon our own past and enables us to see
the good and bad hidden away in the recesses

[Column 2]
of our hearts. All things tend to one common
end, and the suggestions of winter which one
detects when contemplating the falling of a
brown leaf, point to the death of the flowers,
and tell us, though even yet afar off, that
winter with its drear prospects of field and
farm (and yet its cheerful hearths), with its
cold, hunger, and death (and still its light
hearts and joyous carols) is coming with sure
and inevitable tread. The recurrence of the
seasons to those who have the wisdom to learn,
is not without profit; the return of each is a 
silent monitor which Infinite Goodness has set
before the children of men to point a moral
and so adorn the story of our lives as may fit
us for the coming of that hour when we, too,
shall fade as flowers—pass away unnoticed as
a dry leaf in boundless forests—from among
the habitations of the human race, and be
hidden from memory's sight by the snows and
frosts of time. 

"Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set, but all,—
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
We know when morns shall wane,
When summer birds from far shall cross the sea,
When autumn hues shall tinge the golden grain,
But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"
					WANDERING BOY.	
Belfast, Nov. 27th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	We trust that a large proportion of the
readers of this magazine are ladies, and that
many of them are but just starting upon life's
tempestuous voyage; and, in these days, when
so much is being said about "woman's rights"
and "woman's sphere," many a young woman
is led to believe that because she cannot vote
or hold an important office in the government,
she has no influence in the world, and no res-
ponsibility farther than she is concerned her-
self. Now we believe this to be an error, and
will endeavor to convince our fair readers that
it is such.
	Waiving the question as to whether woman
would make a better legislator or juror than
man, and whether she would be more useful
as an advocate at the bar or a political stump-
orator, than she is as the mistress of a house-
hold and the mother of a family, let us see
in what directions her influence has been and
from the nature of her powers and capabilities
ever must be to mankind.
	There are those who claim that woman may
engage in any pursuit that man can, and suc-
ceed in it; that she may compete successfully
with him in any department of business, in-
dustry or learning.
	To a certain extent this is true, but let us
see how it has been in the past, and then we
may judge more clearly of the merits of the
question. We shall find, if we look back over
the history of our world's progress, that in
material progress man—not woman—has been
the mainspring.
	It was man who explored the trackless
ocean and traced the paths of commerce on his
mighty bosom. It was man who brought forth
from the bosom of mother earth the hidden
treasures of mineral wealth, and invented
ways and means to mold and fashion them into
a thousand forms of utility and beauty. It
was man who caught the lightning from the
clouds, and it was man who discovered a way
to send it pulsing through the wires, bearing
our messages with rapidity of thought.
	It was man who conceived and carried out
the grand ideas of national life and national
government. It was man who discovered and
utilized the giant power of steam, and man in-
vented the printing press, the spindle, the
loom and the sewing machine. It was a man
who discovered America, though Fanny Fern

[Column 2]

did say that he would not have been half s
long about it if she had been at his elbow.
We don't wish to express an opinion on that
point, but gladly admit that he might never
have found the means to carry out his grand
idea, had not good Queen Isabella of Spain
sold her jewels to obtain the necessary funds.
	But let us not for a moment think that be-
cause man has done so much for material pro-
gress, and woman has done comparatively so
little in that direction, that woman has no
great and controling influence upon the pro-
gress of civilization, for she has, indeed, a much
greater influence than most people are apt to
think or willing to acknowledge.
	Adam would probably have been content
to remain in ignorance, but Eve, with woman's
quick, keen perception, saw that the fruit of
the tree of knowledge was pleasant to the sight
and to be desired, and Adam was encouraged
to eat of that which otherwise he might never
have touched, because Eve offered it to him.
What man of the present generation would
not do the same under like circumstances? As
a matter of fact, there are thousands of Adams
to-day who smoke that vile weed tobacco, be-
cause some fair Eve has told them she admires
the smell of a good cigar.
	Many a modern Adam has taken his first
glass of wine because it was proffered by the
beautiful jeweled hand of a modern Eve, and
many a modern Adam has reformed his habits
and morals because some fair and lovely Eve,
who is more to him than all the world beside,
has told him that he must do it, or he can
never occupy the same garden of Eden with her.
	Napoleon said, "Give us good mothers, and
we shall have good men," and to this end he
established schools for the special education of
girls. Napoleon, with his keen perception and
intimate knowledge of human nature, knew
that it is almost always the mother who instils
correct principles into the mind of the son—if
he has any at all,—and it was because—in
that eventful period of history—the mothers of
France were patriots, that the beardless boys
flocked to the national standard and upheld it
against the shock of battle, defending it with
their lives until overwhelmed by the combined
armies of Europe.
	And so it has been in all ages of the world's
history. Had the Spartan mothers been the
opposite of what they were, there would have
been no Spartan heroes; and let us not forget
that it was because of the courage, fortitude
and self-sacrificing patriotism of American
mothers that we were enabled to crush out the
most gigantic rebellion on record.
	Let no woman think because she cannot vote,
become a member of Congress, preside over a
Court, sail a Ship, command an Army, or pre-
side over the affairs of a Railroad or a Manu-
facturing Corporation, that she has no influence
upon society, for such emphatically is not the
case. I know a very excellent lady who never
voted, so far as I know she never wanted to
vote, but she raised up four sons who can vote,
and she taught them those broad principles of
right and justice to all men everywhere, and
led them when they became of age to vote the
same ticket she would have voted, had it been
her privilege to vote.
	If any fair reader of this article regrets that
she cannot vote, let her reflect, that she has the
ear of at least one man who can. We are in-
clined to think but few women are aware of
the influence which women might wield, were
she disposed to labor more earnestly in that
field in which the Creator has placed her, in-
stead of reaching out to untried fields of labor
for which nature has not qualified her. We
believe a large majority of the women of the
present day are willing to work in that sphere
of usefulness which God has in His wisdom as-
signed to them, and, in conclusion, we will say
your mission is an high and honorable one; there-
fore "be not weary in well doing."—Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
A HOLIDAY OFFERING.

TO OUR ABSENT LOVED ONES.

To say you are missed can but feebly express
The weight and the force of the heart's loneliness!
In our homes, in our meetings, in every place,
We miss some loved voice, or some dear, cherished face;
At morn and at eve, in our joys, in our cares,
In all things we miss you, except in our prayers!

With longing we watch for the turn of the tide,
When the Saints shall have rest, and, as gold purified,
Shall arise and shine forth in the glorious light
Of virtue triumphant, of truth and of right;
We strive to be patient, we feel that we must;
We watch and we wait, and in God put our trust.

The struggle is hard, aye! so hard that some die,
And go to the mansions preparing on high;
As martyrs for truth are their bodies laid low,
But their spirits dread thralldom no longer shall know; 
No more are they harrassed and hampered and worn
With the burdens and griefs they so bravely have borne.

How truly, how well one of old did record,
"Yea blessed are they which shall die in the Lord!
And blessed are ye who of sorrow partake,
Imprisonment and hatred for righteousness' sake; 
Or by false accusers denounced and reviled, <exiled>
Reviling not, when ye are scorned and reviled."

Oh! ye true ones! beloved of the Lord and His Saints,
Sweet anticipationa holiday paints;
A scene of rejoicing a bright day of grace,
When each manly form and each fair, queenly face,
Which to-day we must miss, will be with us again,
No more, to be wronged by the base among men.

No more to be sought, as in this dreadful hour,
But free from the wicked, their malice and pow'r.
The Saints shall have peace and be ever more blest,
With Jesus the Savior in heavenly rest;
We'll see Him and hear Him and greet with glad cheer,
The day of His birth and the happy New Year,
And also this day for our <His> Prophet and Seer.
		LULA.
	Dec. 23rd, 1885.


[Column 1]

WOMEN CAN DO MUCH IN THE
PRESENT EMERGENCY.

BY A WIFE IN EXILE.

	Before reading Aunt Ruth's question, "Is
there anything women can do in the present
emergency?" I penned the following ideas,
which I will now give as an answer—if only to
prove the unity of thought that exists among
the Latter-day Saints on the present situation
of affairs, afflicting us as a people, particularly
that class who have entered into celestial
marriage.
	Women of Israel, a crisis has come in our
lives! With a knowledge that God had re-
vealed the law of celestial marriage, which
knowledge brought to us the solemn convic-
tion that it was our duty to obey it or lose an
exaltation in His presence, it became with us a 
matter of conscience, a religious duty, associa-
ted with all our hopes of eternal happiness,
and with the assurance that we would be
honored of God, even as holy women of old
are revered by all Christian nations as the
purest and most exemplary—many of us took
upon ourselves the sacred obligations of plural
wives, with the full understanding that we
could henceforth bear the proud distinction of
honorable wives—not concubines, not bond-
women, not women of any inferior position in
the marriage covenant, for the same ceremony 
that binds the first wife binds also the plural,
and each is under exactly the same obligations.
The children of each in the sight of God and
angels who bear witness of the marriage tie,
are honorable. They are the fruit of lawful
wedlock, not bastards, not underlings, and
need no special act of legislation to make them

[Column 2]

legitimate. They are in every way the equals
of those whose parents had not the faith and
courage and quality of self-sacrifice in their
nature to accept the new and everlasting coven-
ant.
	Chief Justice Zane may openly and mali-
ciously insult the thousands of noble and pure
women and innocent children in this community
whose stations I have thus defined, but that
does not alter facts. We can afford to wait
patiently and bear the reproaches and scorn of
the wicked. It was once a reproach to ac-
knowledge our humble Lord and Savior—
when He was scourged and spit upon and
called vile names and even crucified; but He
said, "Revile not when ye are reviled." We
know that God, for whose cause we are "cast
out as evil," has promised to avenge our
wrongs. Patient waiting brings its own re-
ward, but in the meantime we will not sit
idly down and allow might to triumph over
right without an earnest protest and a brave
struggle.
	We will fearlessly assert our rights as de-
fenders of that glorious document which
guarantees to all the right of conscience and
the free exercise thereof, with "life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness," and we will main-
tain our true positions by virtue of conscience
and birth.
	This nation may cry "unclean, unclean,"
but until its statistics show a better state of
morality under monogamic sway we will
answer back, "First cast the beam out of
thine own eye." Let those who are without
guilt cast the first stone. While the agonized
wail from thousands and thousands of God's 
fair daughters, degraded and debauched by
man's consuming lust, reaches up to heaven
from the soil of America, is not the nation's 
boasted gallantry, aye humanity, to woman a
burning sarcasm, a stink in the nostrils of
Jehovah? Congress may pass laws to impri-
son the virtuous brotherhood of the Latter-
day Saints who look upon woman as God's
most sacred trust, prizing and preserving her
virtue above all else on earth. It may rob us
of the care, protection, and companionship of
those dearer to us than life—compelling us
under penalty of fine and imprisonment to
give evidence that would make us worse than
widows, and our children worse than orphans, 
and then, in our helpless sorrow, justify men
of judicial power, in insulting us in the most
cowardly manner. But, as did that of the
Jewish nation, who put to death their Lord
and persecuted even unto death those who
believed in Him, their sin will find them out—
God will not always be mocked—He has again
spoken from the heaven and as He revealed to
John anciently, He has sent an angel flying
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel, who cried, "Fear God and give
glory to Him for the hour of His judgment
has come." Then shall we fear man who can
at most only destroy the frail body in which
is s wn the seeds of death and which must
sooner or later moulder in the dust? Or shall
we fear Him in whom dwells all power—in
whose hands are eternal life and joy which He
has promised unto those who will sacrifice
every earthly consideration to obey His com-
mands faithfully unto the end?
	The time has come when our husbands must
entirely, both in theory and practice, take
from our heads the glorious crown of wife-
hood, put us away, disown us, or be humiliated
to a prison cell, wear the prison garb (recently
enforced it would seem in the Utah Penitentiary
for the especial humiliation of the Edmunds
law victims) and be placed on equal footing
with men guilty of the deepest dyed crimes.
	Now the question with us is, shall we agree
to these measures, shall we assist in any way
or even urge our husbands in working out
their eternal condemnation by breaking the
covenants mutually made in sacred places—

[Column 3]

buying their liberty at the price of honor and
thus robbing ourselves of the cherished dis-
tinction of wives? Or shall we say to them,
stand firm for conscience sake, yield not to the
unlawful, unreasonable requirements of bigoted
tyrannical law-makers who seek to bind man's
heaven born right of conscience in all matters
between himself and his Creator! Accept
rather a prison or exile, as some of us women
have proven that we can do willingly rather
than betray you. Do this and carry with you
our profoundest respect, our purest love, and the
power of a sincere and devoted woman's faith.
We will supplicate for you at the throne of grace
for strength to endure each trial, however
bitter, for the Gospel's sake. We will also
teach the little ones born of our holy union to
revere your name and prize your example as
a priceless legacy. But if you choose to
degrade us and our children and humiliate us
before the triumphal rejoicing of the wicked,
who would glory in our sorrow, we will say,
let the sin rest with you; you alone shall bear
the responsibility and God shall judge between
us, and if you renounce your faith in the
principle that bound us to you and made our
lives acceptable in the sight of God, and
agree to live within the law according to the
interpretation of the court, we can be nothing
to you if not a wife according to the law of
God. Your renunciation of that law severs
every tie. Even if your choice would be to
graciously (?) exalt a woman to the appar-
ent position of a wife without any semblance
of legal recognition, you cannot claim her as
such according to the law of the land which
forbids a second marriage while there is a 
living and undivorced wife. The woman who
accepts this position is not a wife before God
or man, and she as well as the man will fare
poorly in heaven and on earth also, unless
Judge Zane lives to favor them with some of
his marvelous rulings such as created the status
which they will occupy.
	City of Refuge, December 26th, 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Jessie Patterson, who ran as an inde-
pendent candidate for Register of deeds in
Davis county, Kansas, beat the regular Repub-
lican nominee by 286 votes, and the Demo-
cratic candidate by 299 votes.
	Various papers express their suspicion that
Miss Cleveland wrote that part of the Presi-
dent's message which deals with the Mormon
question. Perhaps she did. Those glowing 
sentences in praise of social purity would cer-
tainly come with a better grace from Miss
Cleveland than from her distinguished brother.
—Woman's Journal.
	The Hon. B. Gratz Brown was the first man
to introduce a woman suffrage bill in the United
States Senate, in 1867, and he advocated the
measure in an excellent speech. It took a
brave man to do it in those days, and the mat-
ter made a great sensation. Then the idea was
received with almost universal ridicule. To-
day the movement has advanced so far that
even its opponents acknowledge it to be certain-
ly "coming."
	The English Women's Suffrage Journal is
ubilant over the result of the elections, so far
as known at the time it went to press. Out of
the 292 members elected, 152, it says, are
known friends of woman suffrage; 70 are known
opponents, and 70 are doubtful. As these
figures relate to the first part of the elections,
when the Tories were largely successful, and
as the Liberals are more generally in favor of
woman suffrage than the Tories, the prospect
is very bright. Mr. Parnell, who holds the
balance of power, is a pronounced friend of
he movement.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second-
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1886


[Column 1]

FROM SALT LAKE TO NEW YORK.

	Leaving home abruptly may seem a little strange
to some of our readers, but even editors need a
change, if not a rest, and so, without further
apology for going, we will tell those who care to
know that on the morning of the 16th of December,
we said "good bye" for a short season to Salt
Lake City, and took the D. & R. G. Railway train
for the east. It has become proverbial that this
route has the most charming scenery of any road
adjacent to Salt Lake.
	The first place with which we were not already
familiar was Spanish Fork canon, though we had
heard it gloriously described by others. The
scene was wintry, but very fine, and although not
so beautiful as it would be in summer, yet suffi-
ciently picturesque to make it interesting. At
Price we saw, for a moment or two, young Bro.
Williams, who, with his brother-in-law, B. F.
Cummings, is putting up quite a pretentious store
at that settlement, which is, by the way, the last
"Mormon" town on the route. The next place of
special attraction and importance in the way of
scenery was Castle Gate, which fascinated one
with its impregnable rocky walls that seem to
frown down upon the traveler like formidable giant
structures. At this writing it is impossible to de-
cide whether mountains covered with verdure, or
wild, wierd rocky heights are the most attractive.
It is not surprising that the Indian loves these
giant rocks and their surroundings, for it must be
something sublimely grand to hear the roar of
the cataract, or the dashing, foaming river in these
mountain regions, and the eagle's shrill call and
echo reverberating among these rocky passes;
and when the wind sighs and moans along the
new fissures or cuts, and bursts forth into a tre-
mendous shriek as it gushes out into the broader
opening, it has a tone of the strength of an agony
that breaks down all the barriers of conventionali-
ty, vents itself in wild sounds that pierce, as 'twere,
the very heavens. The imagination has ample
opportunity for play in gazing on such stupendous
wonders in nature as Castle Gate, and the sur-
rounding similar rocky castles, towers, turrets and
pillars.  One can readily believe there were secure
hiding places here for the Gadianton robbers in
such mountain fastnesses. In one's mind many a
strange tale of gypsies, giants, robbers and
brigands might be formulated in thought while
passing through Castle Valley, though one had
not the time or conscience to weave them into
romances to be given to the public. Soon after
passing Castle Valley going eastward, daylight
begins to fade away, and the outlines of these
wondrous pictures grow more dim and indistinct,
but a trifle more weird still, and fainter and fainter,
until the moon and stars announce the approach
of night.
	Learning that the train would pass through 
Black Canon during the night, we asked the
porter to call out, that we might awaken and see
something of this shadowy and dismal region; he
did so, and as it was a clear and starlit night, we

[Column 2]

had the satisfaction of peering out into this dark
and lonely place and observing the effect when the
fitful flashes of the light from the train played
among the black shrubs and trees and over the
mountain sides like a veritable "will o' the 
wisp," making a picture gloomy enough to sug-
gest ghosts, hobgoblins and nymphs of the
wood.
	The following morning the conductor informed
the passengers we should soon reach Marshal Pass
and Soldiers Summit, and in order to see all that
was possible, we went out on the rear platform.
The train was passing through snow sheds every
few minutes, and turning round and round the
mountains, the road seemingly forming a horse-
shoe at each of these turnings. Around these
high and steep mountains, which look nearly per-
pendicular, the railroad is cut into the side of the
mountain, and the train [looks as if it might be
precipitated at any moment into the yawning
chasm below. Many people, it is said, become
very nervous while passing over this part of the
way, but to us all fear was forgotton in the won-
der and grandeur of the marvelous scene with
which we were surrounded, and in admiration of
the adventurous and ambitious men who had pene-
trated this mountain region and prepared the way
for the iron horse to enter, snorting aud shrieking,
to waken up again to life and activity these lonely
and deserted regions, where the wild beasts and
birds of prey had held unlimited and undisputed
possession for generations past. Marshal Pass
has often been graphically described by tourists,
and one need not stretch the imagination at all to
give it importance, as it speaks for itself in terms
not to be mistaken, and all one has to do is to
gaze and admire. The Ouray Peak is pointed
out, and one has a fine view of it now and again
as the train whirls round and round. The Royal
Gorge and Grand Cañon of the Arkansas follow
in quick succession as the train travels rapidly
through these magnificent scenes, and one can
only remain perfectly silent and absorbed in con-
templation of this grand and glorious natural
scenery which the country affords to the eager
traveler. Language utterly fails to express the
impression this sublimity of grandeur makes upon
an ardent lover of nature; the most potent demon-
stration one can give to one's feelings, is to
quote the words of the inspired prophet, "Great
and wondrous are thy works, Lord God Al-
mighty."
	This route is worth all the risk one makes in
traveling over it, and for beauty and attractiveness,
surpasses anything we have yet seen in the way
of natural mountain scenery. All who travel for
pleasure or excitement or to view the wonders of
the world, should take at least one trip over this
far-famed railroad route. The train reached
Pueblo at 4.20 p.m., and then we alighted at a
large and comfortable station, where we were to
wait until the arrival of the A. T. & St. F. train,
about one hour and forty minutes. Most of the
passengers who were there to change cars took a
stroll around the city, for it is quite a town in-
deed, with handsome streets, stores, restaurants,
etc. We were under the impression that this was
the place where some of the Mormon Battalion
wintered, but on inquiry we were informed that it
was a little distance away, at old Pueblo, and we
had not time to go there. At six o'clock we were
again on the train, and going forward with all
possible speed.
	There was a little girl on the car who attracted
the attention of the passengers, it was a sort of
rarity and we enjoyed it very much; indeed it was a
treat to have a gladsome little creature like her
among so many selfish and matter of fact men, for
there were but three women in all. It made the time
time pass more pleasantly, for there was no scenery
to admire in that part of the journey, at this season
of the year.
	We reached Kansas city the next evening, just

[Column 3]

in time to catch the Chicago and Alton train. On
this road we passed some very pretty and stirring
villages and large towns, and the view was quite
pleasing, and as the evenings were moonlight, one
would not tire of looking until a late hour. There
was a sick man on board for whom we felt great
sympathy and for his wife, who by the way was
very agreeable and sociable; we learned that they
had been in Arizona, for some months past, in the
interest of the Smithsonian Institute at Washing-
ton. They know a number of the Mormon people
down there. The lady spoke freely of her work
and tastes, and of the great contrast in her life;
that in the Summer and Autumn she was generally
out in the mountains with her husband, exploring
for relics and curiosities in the interest of science,
a great part of the time on horseback, and in the
Winter, mingling in the life and society of the
Capital of the Great Republic. They were very
pleasant people and not at all lacking in courtesy
when they found they were conversing with a
Mormon.
	The train ran in to the depot at Chicago, at 2.30
p. m., and at 3.30 we were again steaming out of
that great city. One cannot see much in an hour
therefore we only had a ride in a coach or transfer
from one depot to another, to catch the Chicago &
Atlantic Express. While at the station, we heard
a conversation about Utah, between some ladies
who had been out there, and one who had not been
so far west. It was rather interesting, and more in
favor of the people than against them. There
were several men on the cars who occupied all
their time playing cards, while others discussed
science and religion. There were two ministers
and two Bible missionaries, at least so the con-
ductor said. A Japanese grandee occupied the
state room with his gentlemanly and white com-
panion, and they played cards and drank lots of
champagne. His two sons had a section next to
the state room and were reading books in the
Japanese language at first, but after a while they
commenced playing cards too. They were very
nicely dressed and very fine looking, yet their
faces were scarcely so pleasant and intelligent as
their father's.
	The train had to wait over at Homersville in
New York State, and the men in the Pullman car
were very much annoyed; from that time they
grew more restless and excited, and some became
quite angry, and the language they used was not
very choice. However, all things must have an
end and so had this trip and the train came into
Jersey City at ten minutes past one in the morning.
O, the noise, the hurry, worry, bustle and con-
fusion; immediately we were in a "bus" and being
ferried over to New York, where the noise was still
greater; and after driving over the stony pave-
ments, and it seemed going over miles and miles
of streets we alighted at the Grand Central Hotel
on Broadway, safe and well, having had no acci-
dent or even unpleasantness on the way. In our
next we will tell our readers something about New
York City, what we saw and whom we met, where
we went, and perhaps get as far as New Eng-
land.


A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	"A happy new year!" Would that each day of
life might be as joyous to our friends as is the
sound of this old familiar phrase. Four little
words that never can grow old, but only sound
better and cheerier each succeeding year, echoing
from every side as friend meets friend. In their
utterance the voice assumes a gayer tone, the face
a brighter aspect, the hand a heartier clasp and
the heart a lighter throb; sorrow seems to vanish
from the mind, the past is recalled as a gentle
dream, and the future gleams before us only as
some brightly colored picture. Fain would we
pause upon the threshold and think of the coming
year as only a succession of bright and happy


days, where peace, joy and happinesa will reign
in every heart; but turning for one brief moment
to the year just past, the view is not all so bright
as we should love to recall, for we see our homes
overhung with fears. We know that among the
homes of our people are many hearths where
some dear one is missing, driven forth from the
society of loved ones by the unjust decrees of
wicked men. Imprisonment and exile deprive us
of the society of our loved and revered fathers
and husbands, and falteringly as a little child first
attempts to walk,or a young bird to try its pinions,
we draw aside the curtain to glance for one brief
moment into the dim and mystic future. Gazing
into the picture, which but a moment since was
all so bright and gay, we discern clouds and
shadows; yet what do they signify? They but
mellow and enhance its beauty a thousand fold.
The life that has endured all—sunshine and
shadow combined—tells ever the most beautiful
and touching story. Though we cannot foretell
the coming events, we know by our past history
that when our enemies sought to destroy us, God
prospered us the more.
	Our greatest joys have ever been attained
through trials most bitter and severe. It was not
the brightest prospect for our people when they
were forced to leave their homes and dear ones in
Nauvoo and wander over the trackless desert in
search of a resting place—no green and beautiful
valley surrounded with the grandest mountains,
watered by the purest streams, dotted with the
loveliest lakes and filled with the happiest homes,
such as they now have—beamed before them;
they only saw a long, weary journey, leading they
knew not whither, and bringing them they knew
not what; but the journey was not all pain, it had
its pleasures, too, and who doubts but that the
hearts that endured the hardships were far happier
than the ones that caused them, and we know that
the homes built in Zion were far more peaceful
than the ones left in Nauvoo. What is that city
now? Not prosperous as it bid fair to become,
but only a deserted village, saddened with strange
memories and stained with martyrs' blood. We
have nothing to regret in looking back, for our
Heavenly Father has ever guarded and guided us
through the bitterest trials, and as the past has
been so may the future be; in looking forward we
have nothing to dread. The past has ever taught
us how much better it is to suffer wrong than to
do wrong; that joys are ever mingled with our
pains, and that the brightest rewards await the
greatest sufferers.
	As we look further into the picture, we discover
that the shadows but faintly conceal brighter
scenes, even as the clouds sometimes cover from
view the brightest stars; we must not long to re-
move them, but await the course of time.
	To all our readers we extend wishes of joy and
happiness for the coming year. May it be the
brightest of your lives. If any of you have fears
or sorrows, may they be removed and healed, and
may health, peace and prosperity attend you all.
Once more—"a happy new year."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NEW YEAR THOUGHTS.

	As we pass from out the portals of the old year
and pause upon the threshold of the new, hesitat-
ing with hand upon the door bell, reflecting on the
probable results of ringing for admittance into the
undiscovered future, what a throng of busy thoughts
sweep down upon the memory and imagination!
The faded pictures of the past, the unfinished
paintings of the present, the dim and dreamy out-
lines of the unattempted yet ever glorious limnings
of the future. All that has been done, all that is
now doing, all that remains "to do or dare." Har-
vests already reaped, grain that is still growing,
latent germs that lie sleeping under the surface of
our lives, seeds of coming events which our busy

[Column 2]

hands are about to strew upon the fertile bosom of
the future.
	All these in swift procession pass before us,
rising like stars upon the mental firmament, giving
light unto the darkness, guiding the way-worn
raveler of Time toward the goal of his earthly
pilgrimage, or spreading like mists along a lower-
ing sky to remind him of perils that are past
bringing again to memory the phantoms of bygone
errors and their consequences.
	The beginning of a new year. The turning over
of another leaf in the great book of human des-
tiny. Is it not truly a time for thought—a season
for solemn meditation? The past is as a page that
is written, blotted and blurred it may be in places
—for no imperfect human hand ever held the pen
of fate with steady poise—but written, neverthe-
less, written and irrevocable. The present—it is
nothing; it is only the hinge of another leaf, the
pivot upon which the future becomes the past, the
altar on which the fires of hope are converted into
the ashes of memory. The future alone is avail-
able. Pure and spotless as a field of untrodden
snow, it is the blank leaf of life upon which may be
written whatsoever we will.
	Is New Year's not a time then for sober reflec-
tion? May not the future repeat the past? Will
not similar causes at all times have similar effects?
Will not every seed sown produce after its kind?
Will not each word and deed which we consign,
ofttimes so carelessly, to the fruitful and unfailing
womb of futurity, come forth to meet us at the
judgment seat of eternal reward and retribution?
Will not the same hand which scatters the seed,
hereafter hold the sickle, and the upright form now
striding over the furrows of its fate, ere long be
bending beneath the burden of the harvest home?
	Such are questions we all may ask, subjects
upon which we well may ponder. From the lofti-
est to the lowest estate, men and women are but
stewards for time; they must answer to the Great
Judge for the "deeds done in the body," and ren-
der to their Lord at His coming an account of the
talents with which they are entrusted. All are
accountable beings, from the king upon his throne
to the pauper in the street; from the ermined judge
to the prisoner at the [---] free but responsible
agents of the same Mighty Master, who endows
men according to their merits or His own will, and
sends them into the world to cope with evil and
overcome it with good. Here is one placed in
position and invested with authority, an elected or
hereditary ruler of the masses; there, one who has
accumulated millions, standing like a golden god
upon the summit of a shrine erected to the honor
and glory of Mammon. Independent, each may
suppose, and truly so as to wealth and volition, but
nevertheless accountable for his every act, of
tyranny and injustice, folly or crime, and for every
dollar of his wealth,stolen or honestly earned,wasted
or carefully spent, centralized upon self, consumed
upon his lusts, or utilized to benefit and bless
humanity. Another has power of intellect, the
fiery eloquence of the poet or the orator, the pene-
trating research of the scientist and the philoso-
pher, the legislative or military mind of the states-
man and the soldier. Each,in all his greatness, is but
a factor in God's universal plan, amenable for the
way in which his genius is displayed and the effect
of his influence and works upon the lives and lib-
erties of those around him.
	And what is true of individuals, is true also of
societies and nations. The parable of the talents
has not only a personal, but also a social and polit-
ical application. Our own nation, the most highly
favored on earth, incomparable in almost all that
constitutes earthly greatness, is likewise unrivalled
in responsibility before Him who holds in His
right hand the destinies of nations, and who set-
teth up one or putteth down another according to
the judgment of His will. An awful weight rests
upon the shoulders of men in high places. And
what will be the answer of some, aye of many,

[Column 3]

who, instead of using their all but omnipoten
powers to protect the weak, succor the needy,
abase the proud and exalt the lowly, prostitute
both power and authority to rob the poor and
trample on the defenceless.
	And, Latter-day Saints, what of ourselves; we
who profess more, possess more and hope for more
than any other people on earth? Are we not of all
men and women most accountable, and will we be
held guiltless if we neglect, pervert or unwisely
use the priceless privileges and blessings entrusted
to our care? Is the Priesthood a bauble, the Gos-
pel a dream, or are they what we solemnly declare—
the power of God unto salvation, the only keys
that will unlock the eternal gates of glory? Real-
izing this, what manner of men and women ought
we to be?
	At the beginning of another year, let these
things be remembered. Let there be no backing
down, no relinquishment of right, no surrender
of sacred principle. God will justify those who
suffer for His sake the pains and penalties of in-
justice. He will rejudge the "justice" of the
tyrant, and hypocrites and traitors shall tremble
before Him. They who confess Him before men
shall never be ashamed or confounded, and them
will He own before the angels in heaven. Blessed
are they that endure unto the end. Blessed are
they who are faithful over a few things, for they
shall be rulers over many things hereafter. Happy
are they who keep their second estate, for they
shall be added upon eternally. Happy are they,
thrice happy, who seek first the Kingdom and its
righteousness, for all things are theirs, and they
are Christ's and Christ is God's, forever and ever.
	O. F. WHITNEY.


A TROPICAL PICTURE.

AS SEEN BY HOMESPUN.

	One of the commonest and tritest of sayings is,
that there are two sides to a picture. Nothing
could be truer; and as one of my friends remarked
the other day that I saw but one side, and that
generally in an exaggerated form, I shall prove to
her by this letter that I am quite capable of seeing
both sides, if I only choose. So I invite you to
gaze first

ON THIS PICTURE.
	I sit in my own doorway, facing the now golden
west, the sun whispering to the dimly outlined
moon behind a bank of dusky purple clouds, their
edges glistening with rosy pleasure at the approach
of their king; the mountain sides are clothed with
thick groves of trees, whose green crowns are
never cast to earth by winter's cold hand. The
little vale lying between my home and the hills is
checkered with rice fields, dotted with broad leaved
bananas, stately cocoanuts, and many other trop-
ical trees; here and there a grass hut, showing
olive and brown against the bright foliage, with
one or two whitewashed cottages, rest quietly in
the bosom of the pretty valley. At my feet (my
house is on a hill side) is one of these white cot-
tages, and it boasts a pretty garden of geraniums
and chrysanthemums.
	The cows in the adjacent green fields low mus-
ically for their young. The dusky natives clad in
bright colors, and graceful as panthers, go laugh-
ing past my door, from their work in the sugar
fields.
	I hear, away off, the voice of a child chanting a
weird mele (song) in the soft sounds of his native
tongue. I step softly out into the balmy twilight,
and my feet press down the velvety grass that
covers every inch of this my island home, and
look eastward to the sea. How dimly musical
sound the waves as they dash, now on to soft
sand, and anon up to the rocky promontory that
rises abrupt and grey away out in the deep sea.
	The restless waters look dark and purplish in


the gathering dusk, and the tiny island half a mile
out, looks, in this light, like the back of some
huge monster of the deep.
	In the Mission House, away a few rods to the
right, a flute breathes out the glorious tones of the
Miserere, and anon this melts into a quartette of
splendid voices singing Mendelssohn's Farewell
to the Far West.
	I listen with bated breath until the wide dark-
ness enwraps me in soft clinging arms, and then
go softly in with the faint tones of the voices still
reaching my ears! And so, the tropical glory of
the sunset is once more a thing of the past!
	Now gaze on

THAT (THIS) PICTURE.
	The sun is setting in a mass of dark clouds
that threaten to pour down, drenching us and
spoiling the sugar cane now over-ripe in the
fields.
	The little valley is filled with rice fields, tended
by dirty Chinamen. The fruit trees may be never
so heavily loaded, they bear nothing for me.
	The grass huts may look picturesque now, but
one doesn't hanker to go inside, for they look un-
tidy. From the white cottage at my feet, a woman
comes out with blowsy head and her one article of
clothing, her dress, tucked clear to her waist.
	The grass is the shelter and home of thousands
of big centipedes.
	As the sun lowers, the frisky mosquito sails
hummingly round my head. I go out for a breath
of salt air, and admire the sea in the distance,
wishing the distance was a deal less, for it is too
far for me to walk down there.
	The natves go home, shouting to each other in
their harsh loud unmusical voices, making the
smooth vowels of their language sound like the
gutterals of the German.
	They commence their everlasting practice over
at the Mission House, and I am glad to go in to
get away from the darkness and noise.
	Inside, I step very carefully, for fear of disturb-
ing a wandering scorpion or centipede.
	If I feel at all lonely, I have plenty of company
in mice, rats, scorpions, centipedes, cockroaches,
fleas, mosquitoes, lizards, and millions of ants.
	All these are not visitors, but co-residents of my
little 12 foot square room. The neighbors' chil-
dren whine sleepily, the dogs bark lustily, the lamp
burns dimly, and thus commences another evening
away from home and Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	My mother's and Sarah's babies which were
so peculiarly operated upon by the destroyer
continued sick from that time, and it seemed
as if death was determined to claim one or both.
Sarah Ann's appeared the worst some of the
time, and then it would be my mother's, and
the witnessing the young mother's grief, who
plainly saw her infant failing day by day, so
touched my mother's tender heart that she
made up her mind to make an offering of her
own little darling inasmuch as the Lord re-
quired one of them, praying as she made the
sacrifice, that He in His tender mercy, if it
would be acceptable in His sight might take
hers and spare Sarah's. Did this not mark
her as one of the elect of God, who fought
manfully against the flesh, the world and the
devil?
	In those scenes we were supplied with that
spiritual armor necessary to sustain the com-
bat with the inveterate and subtle foe, whose
power and devices were being made manifest
in our midst. From the moment that my

[Column 2]

mother made this offering her babe began to
improve, and only a few days before another
pure spirit had taken its flight from this sor-
rowing vale of tears, and another doting heart
was almost broken as she followed its little
body to that lonely spot on the hill-side which
had been dedicated as a burying place for the
dead. There weary pilgrims could rest for a
season, and the dear little innocents, whose
spirits ascended up to the Father, bearing re-
cord of the inhumanity and wrong which had
been met with in this world by those who ren-
dered obedience to the truths revealed by the
blessed redeemer for the salvation of the hu-
man family, and had been driven from their
homes in the bleak month of February 1846
to suffer in the wilderness in so cruel and heart-
less a manner. The sweet comforter was still
with us, and from that date the destroyer was
staid in our house.
	Among the marvelous instances of faith
which I witnessed, was in the family of Bro.
Lyman Whitney, a brother of the Bishop.
Lyman was then at work in the state of Mis-
souri. One of his babes—its mother being his
second wife—was lyiug sick unto death. She
told us that it had not swallowed any thing
for two days, and its eyes were dried up so that
it had not been able to close them for some
time. My mother, Mother Whitney, Sarah
Ann, Sister Presendia, myself and one or two
more, were called to go and administer to the
sick babe. Sister Presendia first moistened its
eyes with milk and water, then it was washed
and anointed, and as many as could, laid hands
upon it, and all of us unitedly raised our hearts
to God in its behalf, Presendia being mouth.
We had no sooner said amen, than it opened
its eyes and began to wink and look around,
and soon after it took nourishment. The
mother and her sister who were living together,
were both charged to watch it closely and not
leave it alone for a moment, or the destroyer
would grasp it. They watched it faithfully
through the rest of the day and during that
night, but as it appeared so much better in the
morning, they, not realizing how the destroyer
was lying in wait for it, left it sleeping in its
cradle long enough to go into an adjoining
room to breakfast. When the mother returned
she found it struggling in the arms of death.
Then she fully realized the meaning of the
words of warning which had been spoken by
the spirit and power of the Holy Ghost.
	I remember instances wherein the evil one
entered persons that were not sufficiently posted
—not having had enough experience to be able
to distinguish the difference between the opera-
tions of the two spirits—good and evil. There
are those living—sister E. B. Wells being one
of the number—who will readily testify to
these statements. The following I heard from
Sisters Presendia, Laura Christine, Sarah
Lawrence Kimball and others. The circum-
stance transpired one evening at the house of
Sister Miller, whose name is now Finch, where
a meeting was being held. A few sisters who
came had not been present at any of the pre-
vious meetings; and two or three of them it
was said, had made light of them, and the gift
of tongues, etc, which the sisters testified they
had frequently enjoyed with a great outpouring
of the Holy Spirit. Satan, it seems, came also,
and they aver that his face and shoulders were
plainly visible through the window. They not
only saw him, but heard his awful footsteps as
he walked around the outside of the house, after
which there were individuals attacked, and the
power was so terrible, that it was only by
mighty faith and the power of the priesthood
that the destroyer was rebuked from their
midst. At his first appearance, some who had
never before witnessed a conflict with the evil
spirits, as may naturally be supposed, were
frightened nearly out of their wits, at the sight
of his highness, and they took a sudden un-

[Column 3]

ceremonious leave while the strong and valiant
held the ground, till the victory was gained,
and the evil one cast out. From this circum-
stance went forth a false rumor concerning the
meetings of the sisters, started by those who,
not having mingled before with them, pro-
nounced it all from the devil.
	At an evening meeting held at my mother's,
one of the sisters, who had met with us
but little, feeling the spirit resting upon her to
speak in tongues, arose and began talking—at
first very quietly. In a moment her voice
changed, as did also her countinance, and her
movements were such that there was no mis-
taking the spirit which was operating upon
her. Two or three who were present had the
gift of interpretation, and they said with one
accord that she uttered nothing but the most
wicked blasphemy. But this lasted only an
instant as sister Laura Pitkin, who came into
the church at the beginning, arose and took
hold of her arm, and in a quiet but command-
ing tone bade her sit down. She dropped into
her chair as suddenly as though she had re-
ceived a blow, and covering her face with her
hands groaned aloud, as though realizing what
she had done. No one spoke or moved, and in
a moment after she arose and left the room.
From that she felt so humiliated, and crushed
in spirit, that she could not be induced to again
rise to speak in a meeting.
	Many were the manifestations that were had
from above and beneath, which were similar to
what the Prophet had witnessed, but which
previous to that time, I had taken but little
notice of. Joseph said that the devil could
talk in any tongue and that he could appear
like a gentleman, or in any form he pleased.
Also that no one would ever enter into the
celestial kingdom without having to meet and
combat with that power, either in the flesh or
after they had passed out of it, and that his
forces would be strengthened and increased
just in proportion to the progress that was be-
ing made by his opponents. This is easily
enough understood by Latter-day Saints, or
by any one who has undertaken a reformation
or to accomplish a victory in the right direc-
tion.
	The slight experience that I gained at that
early period gave me a little insight, though
in a very small degree, into the workings of
the two powers. Afterwards when I was out
from under that spiritual or heavenly influence,
I made this expression, that I wanted no more
light or spiritual manifestations, for fear I
should have to meet the prince of darkness.
But I had to meet him, a year or so from that
date, and I went through a schooling that
brought conviction, and impressed indelibly
upon my heart the truth of this work, and that
Satan, with all his power and cunning, was a
deceiver; also that our thoughts were unknown
to him only as we uttered them, and therefore
we had the advantage over him, when wise
enough to keep silent, and we could pray to
the Father in our hearts, who was all power-
ful, and able to read the thoughts and desires
of His children.
	The experience had at Winter Quarters
taught me that it was only through obedience
and great humiliation, more especially through
fasting and prayer, that we could obtain any
great manifestations from on high, or the power
to enable us to overcome the adversary.
	Could we as a people, lay aside the world,
and bring our own evil natures into subjection
to that spirit, which would make us of one
heart and one mind, and valiant to do all that
is required of the Saints of God, I know that
we would not be long as we are now, bending
under the yoke of oppression, but would soon
become that people whom we have been told
from the beginning, should be honored, not
only by the noble, but by the Great Lawgiver
of the whole earth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake met according to adjourn-
ment, November 27th, 1885, Sister John pre-
siding. After singing and prayer, Sister John
made a few remarks, requesting the presidents
of the different branches of the Relief Society
throughout the county to give reports of each
society over whom they were called to preside.
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
till 2 p.m.
	The afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
There were present Presidents A. O. Smoot, D.
John and H. H. Cluff, also Bishop Johnson.
After the opening exercises, some very instruc-
tive remarks were made by Counselor Marilla
Daniels and Anne K. Smoot. Prest. Smoot
then spoke to the sisters, giving a great deal
of good counsel and advice on many subjects
of interest to the Saints. Presidents D. John
and H. H. Cluff followed with remarks and
counsels calculated to benefit all, if lived up to.
Bishop Johnson spoke of the donations to the
Stake Tabernacle, and said we should esteem
it a privilege to help build up the kingdom of
God.
	Sister John hoped we should all be benefited
by what we had heard. She felt that the
Spirit of God was with us. After singing,
conference adjourned for three months. Bene-
diction by D. John.
	C. DANIELS, Secretary.

GRANTSVILLE.
	On Friday, Dec. 11th, in the face of a fierce,
driving storm, and bitter cold weather, Sisters
Presendia Kimball and Jane S. Richards left
Salt Lake City to attend conference in Grants-
ville.
	Saturday morning, under the direction of
Prest. M. A. Hunter, the conference opened.
Choice instructions were given by both the
sisters. In the afternoon the children's
Primary Conference was held. It was a most
interesting time, and a great deal of good ad-
vice and instruction was given by the sisters.
In the evening the Young Ladies held confer-
ence, advice being given as to how to live
temporally and spiritually in order to become
healthy, pure, noble women, as well as good
housekeepers. Instructions as to economy.
virtue and wisdom and the careful choice of a
companion were given, and Prest. Gowans, in
conclusion, fully endorsed all that had been
said, urging upon parents to live so that their
children can safely walk in their footsteps.
	Sunday afternoon Sister Kimball spoke up-
on the position we enjoy and the need of our
living up to our privileges, and remembering
our dead, giving much information, and plead-
ing with those who can to go and commence
the work for their dead, so that our children
can carry on the work. She gave valuable
suggestions to the young, how to progress in
all good, to be true to their trust, and be pre-
pared for everything that awaits us.
	Sister Richards showed the need of continual
dependence upon our Father, that He may di-
rect us aright; advised mothers to attend
Primary and understand what is being done
for our children. "Rather have the testimony
of Jesus in their hearts, than leave them a
fortune. We should be willing to endure
hard times, for we can feel ten times happier,
a thousand times better than if we did not
try."
	Prest. Gowans felt pleasure in listening to
the counsel we had heard, and advised all to
seek first the kingdom of heaven. "There is a
volume in this, for we are of the earth earthy.
If we attend to our duties in this kingdom first,
we shall find all things turn out right. The
work for our dead should be first in our hearts,

[Column 2]

and all the time remember that the responsi-
bility of our own salvation would rest with
ourselves."

P. A. SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of this Stake held
their Conference in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Hall, Saturday, December 12th, 1885,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Opened
with singing by the children, "Did you think
to pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Children sang, "We want to see the Temple."
Minutes of the last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks, and
stated that she decided at the last officers'
meeting not to have verbal reports, and make
the conference more instructive and interesting
to the children. Children sang, "Beautiful
Zion." Allie Cowan, 5th Ward, gave a recita-
tion. Prest. Louie Felt spoke a few minutes,
and asked the children some questions. Duet,
by two little girls from the 1st Ward.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes,
and exhorted the children to keep the "Word
of Wisdom," and to obey their parents. Child-
ren of the 17th Ward sang, "The Primary
Children."
	Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of P. A. of
Davis Stake, addressed the meeting; told the
children that Christmas was near, and that
when she was a little girl, she always tried to
do better and begin anew at such times; re-
lated a little story, showing that the best
children got the best presents. Her remarks
were very interesting. Florence Pardoe, 6th
Ward, sang, "Peep-a-boo"
	Mrs. Maria Y. Dougal expressed her pleasure
and told the children to remember that they
were the hope of Israel; gave some good in-
structions. The children sang, "Gather them
into the fold." A recitation from the Bible,
twelve verses, a boy from the 13th Ward.
Jennie McLeon, Prest. of 10th Ward Primary,
spoke upon children praying, and broke forth
in the gift of tongues. Mrs. Sinah Bishop
gave the interpretation. A little girl of the
8th Ward sang a song. Three girls from that
ward sang, and then another, entitled, "A
brighter day to-morrow." Recitation by a
little girl. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleasure with the exercises rendered. A duet
by two small girls from the 10th Ward.
Dialogue, two boys of the 5th Ward. A song
by the little girls of the 17th Ward. Three
little girls of the 15th Ward sang, "My native
home."
	Meeting adjourned for three months, to be
held at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice," etc. Benediction by
Mrs. Rogers.

	Y. L. M. I. A. OF RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Riverdale
was held at the residence of Sister Martha
Bingham, on Thursday, Nov. 26th, at 2 p.m.,
a large number of the Association being pres-
ent. The meeting was conducted by Prest.
Maria Russell. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound;" opening prayer by Mary
A. Stimpson. After singing again, the minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved, and the statistical and financial re-
ports were read by the Secretary, Julia Child.
The following programme was then rendered:
The Young Ladies' "Instructor" was first
read, edited by Polly Child; a chapter from
the Bible by Nellie Child; a dialogue from six
members of the Association; a song, "Hard
times come again no more," was beautifully
rendered by Jessie McDonald, after which
Prest. Russell gave a lecture from the Bible,
of which the following is a synopsis: The
gifts and blessings of the Gospel, recorded in

[Column 3]

the 2nd chapter of the Acts of the Apostles,
are within the reach of all of us; if we will
stand firm and be determined to press on in
the principles which we know to be true, Satan
will not have power over us, for the Lord will
be our helper and will bless us accordingly. If
we strive to live our religion, when we or our
families are sick we can call upon the Lord
and He will hear us. The Lord wishes us to
become as one and to help the poor, and if we
are blessed with this world's goods, we should
be willing to part with some, that we may aid
those who are in need, and have not the many
comforts of life. Urged the sisters to come to
meetings with prayerful hearts, and strive to
have the spirit of the Lord with them at all
times.
	Coun. Nancy Bybee said, "As this is thanks-
giving Day we should all feel to thank the
Lord that our lives have been spared for
another year;" she had seen many prophecies
fulfilled within the last year, which made her
heart rejoice, for she knew that we were en-
gaged in a great and good work.
	Sister E. L. Thompson Felt a desire
to see all improve, and thought the young sis-
ters should prepare themselves for the many
trials they will be called to pass through.
Bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	Sister M. Mitchell bore her testimony to the
work of the Lord; said, "Our enemies can do
a great deal, but they cannot destroy this work,
for the Lord will overrule all things for our
best good." Felt to encourage the young, and
urged them to press on in the good work in
which they were engaged.
	The Association sang the hymn, "Now we'll
sing with one accord," etc. Sisters McDonald
and Maggie Child bore testimony, and felt to
do all in their power to help to build up the
kingdom of God. "We must not waste our
time and sit idle, but study more upon "the
principles of the Gospel, that we may be pre-
pared for the second coming of the Lord. We
should cultivate a spirit of love and union to
a greater extent in our midst, as unless we
are firm and steadfast we will be led away
from this Church.
	Coun. Lucinda Bingham urged the sisters to
come to meeting as often as they possibly could
and try to do all in their power to help to
build up the kingdom of God.
	Prest. Russell made some closing remarks
upon prayer and the laying on of hands for
the healing of the sick.
	Singing, "Now, let us rejoice," etc. The
benediction was pronounced by Agnes Patter-
son.		ELIZA W. CHILD.
	Riverdale, Weber Co. Dec. 1st, 1885.


The habit of faltering and disguising
and concealing, and putting forward the edge
of a truth, instead of showing boldly the full
face of it, at last leads men into an insincerity
so habitual that they really do not know when
they speak the truth or not.—Cardinal Man-
ning.
	TALK—"The power to converse well is a
very great charm," says Ruskin. "You think
anybody can talk. How mistaken you are!
Anybody can chatter. Anybody can exchange
idle gossip. Anybody can recapitulate the
troubles of the kitchen, the cost of the last
new dress, and the probable doings of the
neighbors. But to talk wisely, instructively,
freshly, and delightfully, is an immense accom-
plishment. It implies exertion, observation,
study of books and people, and receptivity of
impression. Plato banished the musicians from
his feasts that the charms of conversation might
have no interference; but in our later fashions
many prefer music rather than the gossip of
the hour, which often degenerates into triviali-
ties, wearisome and commonplace.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


At the late election in New Bedford, Betsy
B. Winslow, a Vice-President of the Woman
Suffrage League, was re-elected a member of
the school board, on which she has already
served for several years. Elizabeth W. Stan-
ton, the President of the League, and Dr.
Helen W. Webster, another Vice-President,
are also elected. So New Bedford has now
three women on the school committee.
	The Buffalo Courier has seen Mrs. Louise
Bethune referred to in the Woman's Jonrnal
as "a practicing architect of Chicago," and
says: "It is hard that Chicago should have
the credit of the woman architect of whom
Buffalo has such reason to feel proud." The
item about Mrs. Bethune was clipped from an
Indianapolis paper. We are glad to give Buf-
falo all the credit that belongs to her, and
glad also that the time has come when a woman
architect is considered an honor, instead of an
anomaly and a disgrace.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Discolored Marble.—Take two parts of sodium
carbonate, one of pumice-stone, and one of finely-
powdered chalk; mix into a fine paste with water. Rub
this on the marble, and the stains will be removed; then
wash with soap and water.
	A pair of boots or shoes thoroughly soaked are not easy
to dry without being left in an uncomfortably stiff, if not
shrunken condition. A very simple device will make the
drying process comparatively safe. The wet shoes should
be thoroughly stuffed with paper, which serves not only to
keep them in shape, but hastens their drying by absorbing
the moisture.
	To Make Yeast Cakes.—Boil together half a dozen
potatoes and a handful of hops tied in a cloth. When the
potatoes are done remove from the fire, mash them fine,
put them in the hot liquor, set over the fire, and thicken
them with three or four tablespoonfuls of flour. Let them
cool till lukewarm. then add a cupful of good yeast and
set in a warm place. When light stir in corn meal till a
thick dough is formed. Place this in a lump on the paste
board and slice off cakes with a knife, dry in the shade,
turning often while drying. Pack away in a close vessel
where the air will not reach them.
	To Cleanse Woodwork.—Save the tea leaves for a few
days, then steep them in a tin pail or pan for half an hour,
strain through a sieve and use the tea to wash all varnished
paint. It requires very little "elbow polish," as the tea
acts as a strong detergent, cleansing the paint from all im-
purities, and making the varnish equal to new. It cleans
window sashes and oil cloths; indeed, any varnished sur-
face is improved by its application. It washes window
panes and mirrors much better than water, and is excellent
for cleaning black walnut picture and looking-glass frames.
It will not do to wash unvarnished paint with it. Whiting
is unequalled for cleaning white paint. Take a small
quantity on a damp flannel, rub lightly over the surface,
and you will be surprised at its effects.
	Boiling Potatoes.—To boil a potato well requires more
attention than is usually given. They should be well
washed and left standing in cold water an hour or two, to
remove the black liquor with which they are impregnated,
and a brackish taste they would otherwise have. They
should not be pared before boiling; they lose much of the
starch by so doing, and are made insipid. Put them into a
kettle of clear cold water, with a little salt, cover closely,
and boil rapidly, using no more water than will just cover
them, as they produce a considerable quantity of fluid
themselves while boiling, and too much water will make
them heavy. As soon as just done instantly pour off the
water, set them back on the range, and leave the cover off
the saucepan till the steam has evaporated. They will
then, if a good kind, be dry and mealy. This is an Irish
receipt, and a good one.


OBITUARY.

	In memory of Hyrum Frederick adopted son of Geo. M.
and Margaret A. White, who died December 15th, 1885,
at Mill Creek, aged nineteen months and twenty days.


He was a sweet and interesting child, and while we feel to
mourn his loss, we acknowledge the hand of our Father
and hope to live faithful, that we may again meet our
darling. 							MARY.

	In memory of Bathsheba, youngest daughter of J. F.
and Elizabeth Snedaker, who passed away on the morning
of the 29th of November, 1885, aged eight years and one
month. She was a lovable girl, always interested when
talking of the things of her Heavenly Father, and lived
long enough to receive the blessings of baptism, and all
other blessings it was her right to receive. She was a
faithful member of the Primary, and was ever willing to
respond when called to do anything. For the fair she
worked a beautiful pincushion. Her little associates miss
and grieve her loss. This is the fifth child which has been
taken from their family since June with the same dreadful
disease, diptheria.
							BELLE WHITE.

	In memory of our dear friend and sister, Emmeline,
daughter of William and Rebecca Faulkner, who died at
Central, Arizona, August 22nd, 1885. She was born
March 2nd, 1872, and she died as she had lived, a true
Latter-day Saint. Her nature was such as made her highly
respected by all who knew her, and we may say in the
best sense of the word, that Sister Emmeline was a superior
young lady, possessing that innate refinement which gives
sublimity to women of character. Added to this were the
traits of gentleness and genuine kindness, which won for
her a great circle of friends. The Y. L. M. I. A., to
which she belonged, passed appropriate resolutions of re-
spect and condolence.					[COM.

	In memory of Ann Granger, wife of Ja[-]ez Woodward,
who died at Kanosh, Willard County, at a quarter to six
a.m., December 3rd, 1885. She was the daughter of
James and Ann Granger, and was born at Sydenham, Kent,
England, 1818. She suffered from a lingering illness of
dropsy and inflammation of the lungs for four months.
She has been a member of the Church thirty-five years.
After a long and tedious journey, suffering many priva-
tions and losing a little daughter with the cholera at Kansas
camping ground, they reached Salt Lake City in October,
from which place they went to Ogden. During their stay
there, herself and husband walked back to the city to re-
ceive their blessings in the house of the Lord. In the year
of the grasshopper famine they settled at West Jordan
while there her husband filled a four years mission to
Switzerland, pulling a handcart, on his return, across the
Plains. Shortly after his return the family were called to
go to Dixie to assist in opening up a new country. The
family resided there many years. While there, Bro.
Woodward went north to work on the railroad. He was
about to return home when he was taken suddenly ill, and
died at Morgan City. She then went to the Muddy, and
remained until the mission was broken up, then with her
two sons she moved to Kanosh, in which place she has re-
sided since until her death. In the year 1878 she was
chosen First Counselor in the Relief Society. She was a
true Latter-day Saint, esteemed and beloved by all. She
often spoke of a dream or vision she had over twenty years
ago, in which she saw the brethren and sisters tried, con-
victed and brought face to face with death for obeying and
practicing plural marriage. We feel to sympathize with
the family in their present bereavement, but trust they will
walk in the footsteps of their mother, and be prepared to
meet her when death calls them hence.
					ADENIA A. KIMBALL, Prest.
					A. RAPPLEYE, Sec.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 806, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
	"Domestic!"
The Seweing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[text surrounding picture of sewing machine that says 
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
	other Sewing Machine. It has been 
	in the Market for 23 Years]

	Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF

Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HEARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES A ND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL's
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
