VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1886.	No. 17.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS.

		WRITTEN FOR P.S.

The fire burns low upon the hearth,
	The household sleeps, no cares intrude,
Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth,
	Within I sit in solitude.

But not alone: dear voices come,
	Breathing soft cadence in my ear,
Which through the day, all wearisome.
	With rush of work, I could not hear.

Their whisperings soothe my tired soul,
	And all its worldly longings lull;
Then o'er my passive senses roll,
	Visions most fair and beautiful.

On scrolls of purest, matchless white,
	Earth's best endeavors far above,
Engraved, as in eternal light,
	I see dear names I know and love.

The poor, the meek, the faithful ones,
	Those bowed by sorrow and by care,
These are God's daughters and His sons—
	I see their names recorded there.

And names I have not known on earth,
	So humble are their stations here,
I see enshrined with gems of worth.
	And in bright glory they appear.

Brave men, who labor day by day,
	To fling oppression boldly down;
Who nobly dare God's laws t' obey.
	Though all the world in anger frown.

Brave women, too, and chaste and pure,
	Who vaunt not here their cherished claims.
But, for the truth's sake, all endure—
	Their names are there, bright, hallowed names.

First, though I saw it not before.
	Shines the blest name of Christ our King,
Who all our pangs and sorrows bore,
	And perfect grew through suffering.

And must I close my eyes, and lose
	This gleam of heav'n, this blessed ray?
Oh! sacred is the "Midnight Muse,"
	Fairer and sweeter oft than day.


[Column 1]

WILL THE LIGHT GO OUT?

	Probably no class of persons are watching
and waiting more anxiously the final result of
the present crusade against "Mormonism,"
than those who, for reasons best known to
themselves, have apostatized and left the
Church, and are now fighting against it. No
other class have the same interest in seeing
"Mormonism" swept away, or would feel more
truly thankful if it could be proved, what they
sincerely hope it to be, a fraud, and obliterated
from the face of the earth. The reason for
this "the wise will understand," but much of it
might be explained, even to the casual thinker,
by that feeling of hatred, almost fiendish in its
bitterness, so characteristic of the "Mormon"
apostate.
	True, there are some seceders who do not
exhibit it, but I do not regard them, except in
a limited sense of the term, as apostates, for
they either belong to a class who never had
any "Mormonism" to secede from, or to an-
other, more noble but unfortunate, who have
not in their hearts entirely forsaken the faith,
though they are counted outside the Gospel
fold.
	I am speaking more particularly of those

[Column 2]

"perturbed spirits" who, not content with fall-
ing away themselves, would fain drag everyone
else along with them, or failing in that, whelm
in ruin and disaster all who prefer to cling to
the old ship Zion, despite the example of the de-
sertion and treachery which they have set them.
	Strange, is it not, that such should be the
case? These persons are, for the most part,
men and women who have been heard to say,
perhaps a thousand times, that they knew this
religion to be the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
have given evidence in many ways, most of
all by that infallible indication of faith and
sincerity, good works, that what they said they
meant, and were then in possession of a testi-
mony of its truth which they could not deny
and would not hear other gainsay. With re-
gard to the causes which have produced a sub-
sequent "change of heart," we have nothing
to say, nor of the peculiar predicament in
which such people find themselves, in repudiat-
ing with scorn what they before solemnly
avowed as a fact; attempting to trample in the
mire the jewel they once wore proudly
upon the breast, and "knowing" to be "all
wrong" what they are already on record for
as knowing to be right and proper in every
respect.
	Such are the ones, I repeat, who are the
most anxious to have it shown that the claims
of "Mormonism" to a divine origin are false;
and the proof of it is that they are straining
every nerve and effort in that direction. And
why this anxiety and unrest on their part? If
they know that "Mormonism" is not true, and
that they simply lied when they solemnly
testified that they knew it was true, what need
of all this nervous activity? Why this haggard
impatience, this feverish haste to have the so-
called "problem" solved by fire and sword,
and the fact of its falsity demonstrated in its
downfall, beyond the shadow of a doubt? Is it
a pure, unselfish, disinterested regard for the
welfare of humanity that inspires such inhu-
man propositions for the cure of an alleged
evil against which the battering rams of mob
violence, special legislation and polemical de-
bate have been thundering in vain for fifty
years? Or, is there another reason, supposed to
be carefully concealed, but nevertheless "gross
as a mountain, open, palpable," to all who see
aright, why the apostate from "Mormonism"
should desire, more than anyone else, to see the
system extirpated and all who cleave to it
swallowed up in the fierce maelstrom of popu-
lar fury?
	I take the ground, and am not afraid of its
being honey-combed, that no man who fights
against "Mormonism" after testifying in all
sincerity that he knows it to be the work of
God, feels positively certain that it is not. And
the bitterer his hatred, and the more active
his hostility to the pure and sacred principles
which he once practiced and advocated, the
more evident is it that in his heart of hearts
he fears and dreads, as only such souls can,
the possibility of its final triumph and his own
utter condemnation. It is the light which
dazzles the eyes and reveals our personal de-
fects, that we wish taken away. For the hon-
est man daylight has no terrors, but the evil-
doer, pursued by the torments of a guilty
conscience, would fain have the bright sun ex-
tinguished, the moon and stars blotted out and
the universe one eternal night, that he might
escape in the darkness and revel in his wrong
doing undisturbed

[Column 3]

	Those who are looking Zionward as the
winds and waves begin to rise and the storm-
clouds to lower overhead, and are asking
themselves the question, "Will her light go
out?" may take home to their souls a negative
response. The light will not go out. It was
the hand of God that kindled it, and not all
the floods of earth or the infernal regions can
drown it, or prevent it from "growing brighter
and brighter unto the perfect day." There is
no such thing in the programme of history as
the extinguishment of "Mormonism." That
programme was prepared in the heavens be-
fore the foundations of the earth were laid, and
though earth and heaven pass away, taking
with them to perdition all who forsake and
fight against God's truth, not one jot or tittle
of what He has forespoken and preordained
will fall to the ground unfulfilled.
	O. F. WHITNEY.


﻿THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

	The world appear blind to the signs of the
times, which to the Latter-day Saints, however,
are proving beyond a doubt that the great day
approaches when, as was long ago foretold, a
government will be set up which will never
end.
	The little stone that Daniel saw cut out of
the mountain is rolling swiftly, and will soon
fill the whole earth. The wicked rule at the
present time, and thousands mourn because of
these things, and the fearful judgments that
have commenced to be poured out upon the
nations. The desolation and pestilence that
will follow the terrible deeds that have been
and are being committed against the weak and
oppressed, they are illy prepared to meet. They
cannot see the wonderful things which are be-
ing accomplished before their eyes, and which
cannot be staid. Though they may scourge
the Latter-day Saints for a little season, it is
only a purifying process which is actually
necessary to separate the gold from the dross,
and we hope will leave none but the faithful
and true, who will render more strict obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel of Christ.
We have the consolation of knowing that the
community called "Mormons" have ever been
a strictly law-abiding people, yielding obedi-
ence to every law which promotes the interest
of morality and religious liberty. They have
been instructed to befriend and support every
constitutional law of the land from the time
that this Church was organized—fifty-six
years ago; also that those who will not abide in
the covenant, even unto death, are not worthy
to be called Saints, as the Lord has declared;
and we know that He has decreed in His heart
that He will prove His Saints in all things,
that they may be found worthy.
	To polygamy and the priesthood have been
attributed all the evils that have befallen the
"Mormon" Church. How fallacious this state-
ment is!  The early Saints know that the
principle of plural marriage was never intro-
duced, much less practiced in the Church, till
after we had passed through the most cruel
persecutions. We have repeatedly testified to
this fact, and we knew when they said that
polygamy was the only thing objectionable in
"Mormonism," that were we willing to lay
aside this doctrine there would soon be other
similar requirements made at our hands. Al-
ready are we witnessing the fulfilment, and the
war is now openly declared to be against our


[Column 1]
religion. The last infamous bill introduced
by Senator Edmunds, and now pending in
Congress, is not only to take away the Church
property, but to rob the women of the privilege
of voting—the poor, sorrowing, down-trodden
slaves of the priesthood (?) of a vested right,
conferred upon them for the purpose of placing
them in a position to free themselves from the
"Mormon" hierarchy, with the full ex-
pectation of our emimies that they
would take advantage of it and lend
their assistance to break up the "Mormon"
Church. But the Latter-day Saints are blessed
with a knowledge for themselves that God
reigns supreme. Long ago we were warned of
the events which are now transpiring in
America, our beloved land of liberty, a land
which the Lord declared to be choice above all
others, where the fulness of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ has come forth, His Church been
established, and the gathering of His people
commenced. This no power will be able to
stay; and those who are striving to rouse this
people to violence, hoping to uproot and crush
out "Mormonism" will be as sadly disappointed
as have been all their predecessors. Numerous
proposals have been made for our removal as a
body to some island of the sea—to Mexico or
South America. But having received no such
teachings, nor revelation to that effect, but to
the very opposite, and believing that when we
emigrate from these mountain regions, it will
be to the spot from whence we were driven, and
knowing that the set time is near for the ful-
filment of that prediction, we look to the Lord
to accomplish it in. His own way, the same as
He did the great move of Israel across the
barren deserts to these rocky fastnesses, which
He had reserved for them and the great multi-
tude who desired to come out of Babylon.
Here we expect to remain until the set time
comes for our return to take possession of
those homes of which we were robbed and then
driven out to perish in the wilderness. The
over-ruling hand is apparent in this, too—that
Fremont and his men had explored one or two
portions of this great basin, but finding the
soil dry,and parched, they considered it alto-
gether unfit for the habitations of men. We
have cause to rejoice when we reflect upon the
mighty work that has been accomplished in
this valley. "A little one shall become a
thousand and a small one a strong nation,"
said the Prophet Isaiah. Have not this and
many more of his predictions been fulfilled
since the early days of our pilgrimage, when
we could look forward only with the eye of
faith? Can such a people feel themselves slaves
to the priesthood, as has been charged, when
every faithful Saint in Zion may himself enjoy
a portion of the priesthood? They are bound
together by no heirarchy, but by a love which
surpasseth the understanding of man. Neither
are they low and degraded, for such are always
the quickest to rebel, while the truly wise will
yield obedience to proper authority, to those
whom they have willingly accepted as their
leaders. Those who have embraced this Gos-
pel are the freest people living. We are not
trusting to priests and to their prayer like the
sectarians who suppose they have nothing more
to do than hold on to what they have, nor to
that false authority which has been received
through the mother of harlots. Such things
may do for those who know not God, and have
not obeyed His Gospel, but this ignorance can
not exist among the Saints. Each one must
receive a testimony from on high, independent
of man's. No matter how well educated he may
be, or how high his authority, he can know
only for himself and not for another. With-
out this knowledge none will be able to stand,
for the time is here when all that can be shaken
will be shaken. It is not for only a few to the
exclusion of the many, but all may know it
for themselves, and by this means all will be

[Column 2]
intelligent and may become one in all things,
even as God and His Son Jesus are one. It is
a glorious theme to dwell upon—this fulfil-
ment of the prophetic words that were spoken
concerning the work that was to be accom-
plished in the latter days,and which is a marvel
and a wonder even in the eyes of those who
have taken part in bringing it to pass.
	While looking over the Evening and Morn-
ing Star, published in Independence, Mo., my
eyes fell upon the following, written June, 1833.
It is headed, "Israel will be Gathered," and
reads: "There is something beyond expression
that cheers the heart of the Saint while con-
templating such a happy day to come, when
everything will be turned to its proper use:
the Spirit of God upon all flesh, will cause all
to fill the place of its creation, as in the day
when all was named by Adam in the Garden
of Eden. The people of the Lord may re-
joice, for the time will soon come when they
shall plant vineyards and eat: for as the days
of a tree are the days of my people, and mine
elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth
in trouble, for they are the seed of the blessed
of the Lord, and their offspring with them."
	Should not such a people rejoice in the
midst of their tribulations, witnessing the ful-
filment of the words of the prophets? and
should not we and our descendants hail the
days which were foretold, and the many privi-
leges enjoyed through being connected with a
people whom the Gospel has made free?
Should we doubt the final triumph of "Mor-
monism?" No; I think not. Having been
forewarned of these troublous times, we ought
in this day to be able to meet the issue.
	While the emissaries of evil are working for
our destruction we can live our religion in
spite of them or any other power this side of
heaven. And Zion's watchmen should awake
and put on the whole armor of faith and stand
in defense of the precious truths which the Al-
mighty has committed unto us, and also pro-
claim them to the honest of every nation,
kindred, tongue and people. This is the mis-
sion of Latter-day Saints, and the Lord will
sustain those who stand in the defense of its
principles. We have proven that we desire
only the welfare of our fellow beings—offering
eternal life and salvation to those who are still
walking in the paths of darkness, desiring with
all our hearts to show them the better way.
We know how the evil one is blinding the eyes
of the majority of the world to their own inter-
ests. We honor those who are actuated by
principle and are possessed of the amount of
moral courage necessary to defend the rights of
their fellow creatures against their oppressors,
who are moved by the same spirit that pos-
sessed Cain when he rose up and slew his
brother Abel, whose offering the Lord had ac-
cepted, and gloried in the thing he had done,
thinking surely that every obstacle was now
removed, and that the flocks of his brother
would fall into his hands. But the doom of
disappointment which awaits those who are
seeking the downfall of "Mormonism" will be
equal to the murderer's, when, in the bitterness
of his soul, he cried,"My punishment is greater
than I can bear!"
					H. M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVOLUTION OF THE PEACH.

	The great ancestor of the peach was purely
a tropical plant that could not endure the
least touch of frost. The almond, from which
by man's aiding nature, the peach has been
produced, is so fragile that it can scarcely be
made to grow even in the warmest portions of
the United States; yet after many ages of
coaxing and gradual acclimatization, it was


transplanted from the hot suns and the warm
fields of Arabia to the frost-touched highlands
of Persia. But instead of the rich kernel's
being the tempting food which the tree offered
to the cultivator, as was the case with the
parent almond in Arabia, it was the husk
which man ate in Persia; but not the hard,
green, indigestible, woody rind of the almond
but the rich luscious peach.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Louise Bethune a practicing architect
of Chicago, was lately elected a member of
the American Institute of Architects.

	Sadie Bay, although only 16 years of age,
is the proprietor and editor of the Buena Vista
(Col.) Wasp; does the editorial work upon her
paper, sets all the type, conducts all of the
business of the office, and runs the press her-
self. it is a hand-press, and she has the re-
quisite muscle to perform the labor. Besides
doing all the work enumerated, Miss Bay at-
tends school every day.

	Miss Kate Kane was one of the two attor-
neys who defended the three Italians sen-
tenced in Chicago a few days ago to be hung
for strangling one of their countrymen.
Judge Hawes in passing sentence referred to
their counsel as having done everything in
their behalf that could be properly and legal-
ly done, and as serving their case as faithfully
as any attorney could.

	Miss Mamie Dickens, the eldest daughter
of Charles Dickens, has written a short bio-
graphy of her father, which will soon be pub-
lished by Cassell & Co. Miss Dickens has
condensed the story of her father's public life,
and has also shown him as he was at home,
with his family and at his work. She has giv-
en what will be regarded as the pleasantest
pen picture of the great English novelist.

	The following sums are said to have been
received by the respective authors for the
works named: "Romola," George Eliot, $50,-
000; "Waverly," Scott, $3,500; "Woodstock,"
Scott, $700; "Life of Napoleon," Scott, $90.-
000; "Armadale," Wilkie Collins, $25,000;
"Lallao Rookh," Thomas Moore, $14,000; "His-
tory of Rome," Goldsmith, $1,500; "History
of Greece," Goldsmith, $1,250; "History of Eng-
land," Goldsmith, $3,000; "Vicar of Wake-
field," Goldsmith, $300; "Decline and Fall of
the Roman Empire," Gibbon, $50,000; "Lives
of the Poets," Johnson,$1,500; "Rasselas," John
son, $500.


EXPERIENCE.—To some the experiences
they pass through are like beads upon a string,
and when the thread of life is cut, they simply
roll away out of sight and out of mind. A
new business here a new friendship there; here
a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here
a birth and rejoicing, there a death and mourn-
ing; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no
special meaning attached to them and no con-
nection between them, except that of time or 
place. Another person comes out of each one
fuller, stronger, wiser than before. A serious
illness has led him to study the laws of his
physical mature, and taught him how to secure
health for himself, his family, and those whom
he may influence. A disaster in business is
sifted to the bottom, and new light is thrown on
future plans. Or a great happiness comes to
him, and he hastens to share it with others, or
learns through it how he may bless others. He
is accumulating experience, not simply to
count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain,
but to develop out of it all power and wisdom
by which his own life and the lives of all who
approach him may be improved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OH, THOU! WHO DRY'ST THE MOURN-
			ER'S TEARS.

Oh Thou! who dry'st the mourner's tear,
	How dark this world would be,
If, when deceived and wounded here,
	We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in the sunshine live,
	When winter comes are flown;
And he who has but tears to give,
	Must weep those tears alone,
But thou wilt heal the broken heart,
	Which, like the plants that show
Their fragrance from the wounded part,
	Breathes sweetness out of woe.

When joy no longer soothes or cheers,
	And even the hope that th[-]ew
A moment's sparkle o'er our tears,
	Ay, dimm'd and vanish'd too,
Oh, who would bear life's stormy doom,
	Did not thy Wing of Love
Come brightly wafting through the gloom
	Our Peace-branch from above?
Then sorrow touch'd by Thee grows bright
	With more than rapture's ray;
As darkness shows us worlds of light
	We never saw by day
							MOORE.


A DEAD ROSE.

O Rose! who dares to name thee?
	No longer roseate now, nor soft, nor sweet;
	But pale, and hard, and dry, as stubble-wheat.—
Kept seven years in a drawer—thy titles shame thee.

The breeze that used to blow thee
	Between the hedge-row thorns, and take away
	An odor up the lane to last all day,—
If breathing now,—unsweetened would forego thee.

The sun that used to smite thee,
	And mix her glory in thy gorgeous urn,
	Till beam appeared to bloom, and flower to burn,—
If shining now, with not a hue would light thee.

The dew that used to wet thee,
	And, white first, grow incarmadined because
	It lay upon thee where the crimson was,
If dropping now, would darken where it met thee.

The fly that lit upon thee,
	To stretch the tendrils of its tiny feet
	Along the leaf's pure hedges after heat,—
If lighting now, would coldly over-run thee.

The bee that once did suck thee—
	And build they perfumed ambers up his hive,
	And swoon in thee for joy, till scarce alive,—
If passing now,—would blindly over look thee.

The heart doth recognize thee,
	Alone, alone! The heart doth smell thee sweet,
	Doth view thee fair, doth judge thee most complete—
Perceiving all these changes that disguise thee.

Yes, and the heart doth owe thee
	More love, dead rose, than to such roses bold
	As Julia wears at dances, smiling cold!—
Lie still upon this heart which breaks below thee.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	We are living in very eventful days. Inci-
dents are continually occurring that test people
and show that the "Gospel net" has indeed
gathered of every kind. We find that there
are good, bad and indifferent individuals in
our midst. All that is required is something
to bring them out to show their true character.
You can judge pretty correctly how much
faith people have by their expressions, for "out
of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh." A person who has faith and confi-
dence in God that He will fulfill His promises
to His people, does not speak in a doubtful,
fearful manner about the outcome of this cru-

[Column 2]

sade that is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, but is confident that all will be over-
ruled for the good of those who trust in Him
and remain faithful.
	Those who enjoy the spirit of the Gospel do
not ask such questions as these. "Why do not
the authorities of the Church come forth and
give themselves up and stand the consequences
like men? If plural marriage is of God why
does He not protect His people from their ene-
mies, and not suffer them to be cast into prison?"
These questions are sometimes asked by those
who profess to be Saints, but I say they are
only Saints in name, or they would understand
the reason, and would feel as all true Saints
feel, anxious that our leading men should re-
main concealed, and their prayers would as-
cend daily to God that He would keep them
from their enemies.
	In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
made arrangements to escape from his enemies,
but some of the Saints of little faith accused
him of cowardice, and he returned, knowing
what the end would be—that his life would be
taken. Do we wish to see a similar tragedy?
There are those who are thirsting for the blood
of our prophets to-day, who would repeat the
crime committed at Carthage Jail, if they had
the chance. The blood of our beloved Presi-
dent was shed on that dreadful occasion, but
he has been preserved to bless this people and
fill the place he now occupies. He is a living
monument of God's power and mercy, and
may God grant that he may continue to be for
many years.
	Who thinks it reasonable to ask, "Why was
Jesus Christ allowed to be crucified, if He was
the Son of God?" Yet some people ask why the
Lord does not prevent His servants from going
to prison, if He commanded them to practice
plural marriage? It is just as necessary for
God's chosen people to-day to be tried, perse-
cuted and imprisoned for the Gospel's sake, as
it was for Christ to be crucified, and all
Christains acknowledge that that was essential
for our salvation. Why? To test us, to see if
we are willing to suffer for the Gospel's sake.
If we are not willing, we are not worthy to be
called Saints. Jesus said, "He that is not
willing to lay down his life for my sake is not
worthy of me." And again He said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil of you
falsely for my name' sake; rejoice and be
exceeding glad, for so persecuted they the
prophets who were before you."
	The persecution that we receive is an evi-
dence and testimony to us that we are the peo-
ple of God whom He has chosen out of the
world, therefore we are hated and persecuted
for our religion as no other people are perse-
cuted; but if we would "be like the rest of us"
they would love us and let us alone. We do
not want their love nor anything they offer us.
—no, not even the liberty they offer us. The
liberty that the courts offer has to be bought
with too great a price for Latter-day Saints to
think of purchasing. They cannot afford to
barter away their exaltation and endless lives,
and become slaves by accepting the liberty
that the courts offer; and a man who does so to
escape a few months' imprisonment forfeits his
wives and his children and his exaltation. Bet-
ter accept imprisonment for life with honor,
and gain endless lives, that accept liberty and
dishonor. When I read about the brethren
who have made promises to the court, I wonder
how their wives feel to be cast off and deserted
by those they loved and trusted, and how their
children feel. I brought it home to myself,
and asked myself how I would feel under the
circumstances. It made me feel sick at heart;
it was terrible to think of, and I was glad to 
think of something more pleasant. I say,
"God bless and comfort my sisters who have to
endure this trial," and let me encourage you

[Column 3]

to do your duty bravely, keep your covenants
and live a pure life, and our Father will re-
ward you by giving you a noble husband, who
will not be afraid to serve Him, and will be
worthy of the affection of pure faithful women.
The man who puts away his plural wives is
more to be pitied than the wives (if they re-
main faithful), for by his cowardly act he will
bring upon himself the condemnation of a just
God, who hates and has forbidden the putting
away of wives.
	If a man breaks his covenants and forfeits
his plural wives, what about his first wife?
Has he not also forfeited her, and is she justi-
fied in the sight of God in living with him?
He made the same covenants with his other
wives as he did with her, and is under the
same obligations to them as he is to her. I feel
proud of my sisters who went to prison rather
than betray their trust, and think there are
many more who would do the same, if they
were tried the same. Many of the brethren
have shown their integrity by going to prison,
and have gained the admiration and love of all
true Saints, who remember them daily in their
prayers. I should think the wives of those
noble men would love and honor them more
than ever, and would strive to be faithful and
true to them, that they might be worthy to be
their companions for time and eternity. But
if some of their wives are unfaithful, the Lord
will give them others who are worthy; and will
reward them for all they have suffered.
	Let us, my sisters, be patient; the redemption
of Zion draweth night. Let us not murmur or
complain at the providences of God, but be
thankful that He has counted us worthy to
live upon the earth at this time, and given us
the privilege of assisting to build up His king-
dom and establish righteousness upon the earth,
thereby showing our faith by our works. Let
us try to be humble, and say, "Father, not my
will, but Thine be done," and then strive to do
it with all our might, and all will be well with
us. When Jehovah has accomplished His pur-
poses in this crusade it will cease; the prison
doors will be opened; the exiles will return;
families will be reunited; righteous men will
sit in the judgment seat, and Zion will arise
and put on her beautiful garment, and the
glory of the Lord will rest upon her. That
this day may speedily come, is the daily prayer
of	A PLURAL WIFE


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A HAPPY HOME.—"Six things," says Hamil-
ton, "are requisite to create a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness
the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affec-
tion, and lighted with cheerfulness, and indus-
try must be the ventilator, renewing the
atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity
day by day; while over all, as a protecting
glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except
the blessing of God."

	SIMPLICITY OF EXPENDITURE.—Simplicity
of expenditure is important to peace and
happiness. By this is not meant mere retrench-
ment, but that wise and independent manner
of spending that chooses comfort, health, edu-
cation, and real refinement, and refuses vanity,
self-indulgence, and display. The spending of
money always involves choice and usually some
sacrifice. One thing must be given up for the
sake of another, and the art of selection is one
on which much of life's happiness depends.
Emerson well says, "Spend for your expense,
and retrench the expense that is not yours.
We are sympathetic, and, like children, we
want everything we see. But it is a large
stride to independence when a man, in the dis-
covery of his proper talent, has sunk the neces-
sity for false expenses."


132					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.	

SALT LAKE CITY,			FEBRUARY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]﻿

VISIT TO NEW ENGLAND.

	To go back again to one's native place after
forty years absence, and revisit the scenes of one's
childhood, is something difficult to describe, be-
cause, forsooth, the reality baffles all description.
The places that once knew you so well, know
you no longer; only here and there you may find
some old man or woman who remembers you
when a child, but can see none of the resemblance
in the mature and somewhat faded matron. "Why,
you used to have such rosy cheeks and lips," said
one old lady. "So I had, once," was the reply,
"but remember, when you knew me was more
than forty years ago." This was the village dress-
maker who came twice a year to our house, and,
in fact, to all the houses in the village, to cut and
fit and help make the summer and winter clothing.
We used to think she was an old maid then, but
now she is a very old maid. She was very prim
and precise, always looked so distant, as much as
to say, "No one must come too near me," and we
little people stood quite in awe of her; she wore a
green silk calash with a ribbon bridle, and carried
a long green silk bag, which contained, among
other things, her scissors, patterns and articles for
use in the art of dressmaking. We children
never ventured to peep into that bag, though our
curiosity was very great to see all that it contained,
but upon no account would mother allow us to
touch it. In those days little girls didn't venture
to ask as many questions as they do now, or per-
haps we might have found out what else the long
bag did have in it; but after all it is very romantic
to revel in mystery, and we had that pleasure at
least.
	"Does New England look to you as it did when
you left?" is a question we are more often asked
than any other, or, "Are you disappointed in see-
ing New England again, after all these years?"
"Not nearly so much disappointed as we had been
told we would be," has been usually the answer.
Yet there are various disappointments. One is in
the woods, although it may be said, the woods in
winter are not like the woods in summer, yet the
old New England woods as we remember them are
mostly gone—cut down and used up, and the new
growth of trees is not so large, and does not
strike one with the same sort of reverence as did
the old forests of forty and fifty years ago. Here and
there we found some woodland forests more like
"the olden time," thought it was winter, and Long-
fellow's poem, "Woods in Winter," came to mind:

	"When winter woods are piercing chill,
		And through the hawthorn blows the gale
	With solemn feet I tread the hill,
		That overbrows the lonely vale.

	But still wild music is abroad,
		Pale desert woods! within your crowd;
	And gathering winds, in hoarse accord,
		Amid the vocal reeds pipe loud."

	The dear old beech woods through which we
had so often roamed, where the partridges were

[Column 2]

wont to fly across our path, and where the tangled
shrubbery and ferns grew in luxurious profusion,
and wild berries hung gracefully from heavy laden
bushes, were all cut down, and only great stumps
and small underwood marked the spot, so cherished
among the fond recollection sof the past. Many
of the great wide spreading elms, which form
such a pleasant feature of New England scenery,
are gone; some riven by lightning, some dying
from the eating away of worms, and some have
fallen by the "woodman's axe," that spared them
not because of the new civilization that has spared
not anything that stood in the way of railroads.
Yet there are miles and miles of woods in the
country, but they are not the forests of long ago,
but the new growth of modern times.
	Talking of woods and trees, one cannot help
recalling the graceful, fragrant hemlock, and fer-
vently we can re echo Longfellow's words:

	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!
		Green not alone in summer time,
		But in the winter's frost and rain!
	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!"

	And to think of going to one's old home, and
finding the hemlock grove all cut away; the trees
under whose sheltering boughs we had sat rapt in
glad visions of the bright and glowing future, and
where in childhood's earliest days we had gone
with dolls and toys to play upon the mossy rocks,
that were swept by the overhanging boughs, and
where we listened in childish gladness to the
songs of merry birds and the soft ripple of the
murmuring brook, the same old brook that still
flows on and on, unconscious of those who played
along its flowery banks, and sometimes caught,
from out its crystal waters, the pretty minnows,
and now and then a speckled trout; yes, the same
brook, where, morning after morning, during
childhood and girlhood, we went to wash our
face and bathe our forehead in the cool water, and
where our good sister Delia says we "caught the
inspiration of poesy." The same brook, too,
where, on a cold and frosty morning in the dead
of winter, 1842, the solid ice was cut away just be-
low the dam and a knot of people gathered on either
side to see the "Mormon" Elder baptize the new
converts to the unpopular faith. The little
brook we called it, on our old homestead, only a
few rods from the house, where, after seven others,
older and wiser, had received baptism, we, too
went down with timid feet and palpitating heart,
doubting our own courage, to receive, at the
hands of one commissioned from on high, the
sacred ordinance of baptism for the remission
of sins.
	As we stood there on that wintry day, when the
brook was frozen over as on that other time in
the "long ago," many thoughts flashed o'er us, the
whole scene was re-enacted in vision, and the
question rose involuntarily, "Where are they now
who came there then to be immersed in water and
enter through the door into the true Church?"
All gone behind the vail, save one, and that one
standing there viewing over again that solemn
scene on that wintry morning. The cold north
wind was blowing fiercely, and shrieking, too, as
if moaning for the departed and the desolation
that seemed spread around; and the old fashioned
well sweep, a few feet away, creaked heavily up
and down. We were started from our reverie by
a man who came with two buckets for water, and
it seemed to us a sacrilege for him to take this
water for such common use, so reverentially we
looked upon this stream in which we had been
buried, that we might be admitted to the Church
of Jesus Christ upon the earth. In silent contem-
plation we drew near the frozen stream and walked
across, gazing down into its placid water, where
the ice had been cut away, and in our heart and
soul renewing with determined will the covenants
then and afterwards entered into, to remain faith-

[Column 3]

ful to the end. A strong testimony came with
that resolve, and a consciousness not only of the
truth of the Gospel, but of the final triumph of
right over might, and it gave such confirmation to
the soul that it seemed a mockery to stand there
silent with folded hands, and only listen to the
voices in the winds.
	From out that little village and the surrounding
farms about forty persons had been converted
and gathered to Nauvoo. Some brave and
true died by the wayside, when the Saints
were driven from their homes in that once beauti-
ful city, and only a few still remain alive of that
little flock, who, honest and sincere, received the
message of salvation, and laid their all upon the
altar of their faith.
	We found as many rocks as of old—the people
have not succeeded in getting rid of this feature
of the land, but the pretty villages are, many of
them, left sort of desolate, and many farming
houses we saw untenanted and farms uncultivated.
The flourishing towns and villages are where the
railroads run and the factories and machine shops
are built, and a large part of this population is
made up of Irish and French Canadians. And
think of grand old Puritanical Boston having an
Irish Mayor! We might almost fancy some of
those old primitive Bostonians rising out of their
graves and protesting against this usurpation of
their rights, if the dead troubled themselves about
earthly conditions. It is very galling to many of
the proud old Yankees to be obliged to tamely
submit to this sort of thing, but so it is; and we
could not forbear telling some of them, occasional-
ly, when a good opportunity offered, that if things
did not change with them it would not be long
until there would be more descendants of the Old
Puritan stock in Utah, than there would be in the
New England States, proud as they are of their
blood, and much as they despise the "Mor-
mons."
	Old maids and old bachelors still abound, and
families are mostly very small. Sometimes one
meets with a large family, but it is among the low-
ly born, and even rarely there; and at the rate
they are decreasing it will not take long for the
Puritan race to die out. It is not a pleasant
thought to dwell upon for one whose attachments
for New England and her people are specially
strong; there are causes for these effects, but at
present we are not dealing with the why's and
wherefore's, but simply touching upon facts.
	There are many interesting things and places
which one might elaborate upon, but one letter, or
two, or three would not "tell it all." Oh, no; we
have material for many sketches culled in our
travels here and elsewhere since leaving home.
As for religion, we find a variety of kinds, and
some strong advocates for each sect or denomina-
tion; but many more, the larger number, are
"lovers of pleasure," seeking for their own aggran-
dizement, comfort, happiness, or ambition.
	Their ministers preach for hire, and the rich
have their own churches, where the poor cannot
afford to go. On one occasion, going through a
very handsome church, said by some to be the
finest finished of any in the City of Boston, a
lady of the party remarked she would "like very
much to attend service there regularly."  In a
moment we asked, "Why don't you, then?" to
which she replied it would be impossible for her
to afford it, the seats were so expensive. Think
of such being the Gospel Christ preached without
money and without price! This proves it cannot
be. At another time, in a revival meeting at Tre-
mont Temple, Boston, on a Sunday evening, we
happened to sit in the same seat with several
young men. After a part of the services were
over, the contribution boxes were passed around;
they were very odd looking, and had long handles
to reach along the seats; evidently the young men
were not prepared, for, with an air of disgust, they
turned away, and one spoke loud enough for us


to catch his words—“Even here a fellow is not
wanted unless he has money."
	At the door of this, and many other places of
worship, we saw boxes to drop money into for
foreign missions, public charities, but these same
people are not willing to lay aside their prejudices
long enough to listen to one argument from a
“Mormon.” They hate "Mormons" with a bitter
hatred, and so intense is this feeling with many
that they shrink from the very thought of a “Mor-
mon” woman as though she were a monster. Yet
they applaud the deeds of Scripture women, such
as Ruth—happy for her that she is dead, for were
she living now, her name would be a byword and
reproach. And they call this Christian charity,
and their ministers preach from such texts as,
“Prove all things, and hold fast that which is
good." Fortunately there are some who are not
so narrow-minded; men and women who will
speak of the "Mormon" question candidly and
feelingly; but they are the exception. All the in-
formation the generality of the people are in pos-
session of about the "Mormons," has been
gathered from anti-Mormon writings, such as
Mrs. Stenhouse’s book, or Ann Eliza’s, or lectures
from these women and others of the same stamp,
and when one has the courage to defend the
principles of the "Mormons," and especially the
doctrine of a plurality of wives, they are horrified,
and will not listen. Still there are those who think
the new Edmunds law severe and unconstitutional
in some of its measures, and the advocates of
woman suffrage proclaim against the clause that
takes away that right from women, “and especial-
ly,” say they in public print, “the anti-Mormon
women." To tell the people that this persecution
is not going to destroy "Mormonism" and break it
up, is preposterous in their eyes; “the people are
determined," say they, “public opinion rules, and
the civilization of the age demands it.”  But God
rules, and turns and overturns kingdoms and peo-
ples, and truth will prevail, and Zion be established
never more to be thrown down, despite public
opinion and the civilization that cannot tolerate a
plurality of wives, and that calls it barbarism.
	We have heard it asserted by some that the re-
cent bill introduced into Congress by Edmunds
would so over-reach the mark as to result in good
to our cause; though they would not for a moment
be understood as countenancing such a thing as
"polygamy."  “Mormonism” is indeed a problem
that the world are not able to solve, and the more
they work at it, the more complicated it will be-
come, and the harder to handle; therefore it would
be wise for them to let the matter alone, for there
is a vital element in it that will outlive persecu-
tion, however bitter it may be; and like the stalk
of mustard, the more it is shaken the further it
will spread; so it will be, and man cannot hinder it,
for God hath decreed to do a marvelous work and
a wonder, and He will accomplish His purpose,
and prepare a people for the reign of peace upon
the earth; and it must needs be a people who will
keep a higher law, the law of God, and who will
make covenant by sacrifice; who dare to be true
to their convictions, even though public opinion
demands them to give up those sacred principles
which God has commanded them to obey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		[--]


IN MEMORIAM.

				DESSIE.

	With sadness we mention her name, for she is
gone—passed from earth away—our sweet fair sis-
ter. Death has taken one we dearly loved, and
though in sorrow we mourn and long to see her
once again, still must we feel that she is happier
far, for her suffering now is ended, and we pray
that He who wipeth the tear from every eye will
look in tenderest mercy upon those whose hearts
are grieved—the doting husband, the little child,
the bereaved mother, the exiled father, and


the brothers, sisters and friends who held her ever
in fondest endearment.
	The possessor of a bright intellectual mind, a
fine, sensitive nature and a most amiable and
pleasing disposition, Dessie ever held the highest
place in the affection of her chosen friends, a place
now to be filled only with sacred memories.
	Her life, from childhood to the grave, was
simple, pure and beautiful; she sought no public
praise, but in a retired, quiet way fulfilled life's re-
quirements, and ever charmed with delightful
conversation and delicate acts of kindness those
whom she loved. Now that she has left us, we
tenderly recall the days her presence here has
brightened, and as we turn the golden pages in
memory's book, our eyes are dimmed with tears
and our hearts filled with sad yearnings, for we
know those days are gone never to return. So in
volume even as she closed the book of life, and,
like her, look hopefully forward to a brighter,
purer life in heaven.				A.

	DESERET WELLS READ, the daughter of Daniel
H. and Martha H. Wells, and wife of Charles
Read, was born on the 18th of April, 1853, and
died on the 15th of Jan., 1886.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Territorial Legislature is meeting, as ex-
pected, with determined hostility on the part of
the Governor. He has vetoed two very impor-
tant measures which passed both houses, and in
one of his messages took occasion to add insult to
injury. The legislators, however, are calm and un-
disturbed and so far treat his slanders with digni-
fied silence.
	The new Edmnnds Bill which will be found on
another page, was introduced Dec. 8, 1885 and
passed the Senate on the 8th of January, 1886 by
a vote of 38 to 7. The latter were Senators Blair
of New Hampshire, Call of Florida, Gibson of
Louisiana, Hampton of South Carolina, Morgan
of Alabama, Vance of North Carolina and Hoar
of Massachusetts. Mr. Hoar opposed the infa-
mous measure because of the section depriving the
women of Utah of the suffrage; outside of that
portion he was in favor of the bill. The other
six whom we have named opposed it unquali-
fiedly and would under no consideration give
sanction to so palpable a scheme of robbery and
oppression.
	The following letter to the Editor of the EX-
PONENT, written Jan. 2, by Lillie Devereux Blake,
Prest. of the New York State Woman Suffrage
Association, we publish, for the present, without
comment: "At a meeting of citizens, held under
the auspices of the New York State Woman Suf-
frage Association, at No. 54, Union Place, on
Saturday, Jan. 2, the following resolution was
unanimously passed:
	Resolved; That while approving of the main
object of the bill to suppress polygamy, introduced
in the Senate of the United States by Senator
Edmunds, of Vt., we earnestly protest against the
clause which proposes to disfranchise all the
women of the Territory, whether innocent or
guilty of the crime of plural marriage, as an un-
just discrimination against the class most op-
pressed by this cruel institution, and call upon
Senators Blair of N. H., and Palmer of Ind.,
and other fair-minded men to oppose the passage
of this clause of the bill."


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			LAIE, Oahu, Jan. 9th, 1886.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—This may be considered a suita-
ble time for the expression of the honest con-
victions of those who have had experience, and

[Column 2]
can speak from personal knowledge in relation
to the much misunderstood, maligned and insulted
principle of plural marriage, as practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. As one who has had a person-
al experience of twenty years in plural married
life, besides having been intimately connected all
her life with those who have been in the practice
of that principle, I may justly claim some right
to speak upon this subject. My connection with
plural marriage is and always has been beyond
all question a matter of honest and earnest con-
viction with me. I entered that relation volun-
tarily, and "of my own free will and choice," in
my youth, heaven having kindly favored me with
the man above all others in the world, of my choice.
Not only did I voluntarily enter into plural mar-
riage with my husband, but I have voluntarily, and
with ever increasing satisfaction, given to him
other wives, with whom for over seventeen years
we have lived, much of the time under the same
roof, with such harmony, love and union, that I
look back now over all those years with unsullied
joy and satisfaction. In no instance have I wished
to change my lot or desired greater happiness
than I enjoyed. Not until our increasing family
made it necessary, did we have a thought of sep-
arating from that dear old happy home, and even
now, tho' dwelling apart, one of the greatest of
our domestic pleasures is to spend our evenings
and leisure moments together in quiet social en-
joyment in the manner of the sweet and blessed
and happy days gone by.
	Not long before the commencement of the
present infamous persecutions and prosecutions
of our husbands, fathers and brothers for loving,
honoring and sustaining their trusting wives and
children, one of my husband's wives said to me,
"I am afraid our happiness is too great, I hope
nothing will happen to deprive us of the blessings
we enjoy." I replied, "Why, what could happen?
We make our own happiness, who can take it away
from us?" Little did we dream at that time that
such a state of things as now exists would ever
come to pass in our once peaceful, free and happy
land.
	Why should I and my husband's wives, willing
and united companions in domestic happiness,
best suited to our choice, and our children, be
disturbed in our peaceful possession of the do-
mestic felicity which springs from our own hearts
and from the associations and relations which
we regard as most sacred and eternal? Who
shall dare to say that the partner of our choice is
not as dear to us and as much beloved as the
choicest husband of any woman in the land? I do
not assume to speak for my sisters without know-
ing whereof I speak, (they can speak for them-
selves,) but this much I make bold to say, there
is no other man in all this world that can fill the
station in our affections nor in our homes that
our husband occupies.
	And who can match him in his children's eyes,
or represent him in their hearts? We entered
into plural marriage in good faith, both as touch-
ing the laws of God and the laws of man. We
were not conscious of having violated
any constitutional law. The act of Congress of
1862, in relation to polygamy, the only law then
in existence relating to the matter, was universally
believed to be a "dead letter," because unconsti-
tutional, and for many years was so treated by the
courts as well as by the people of Utah, "Mor-
mons" and "Gentiles." Still when it comes
to a question of conscience, I have never
felt that I have been guilty of any crime, notwith-
standing the actions of the courts validating the
laws then in existence and since enacted against
polygamy. It is not a question of law with us,
but a matter of conscience, of religious convic-
tion and of earnest and undying faith in the laws
and purposes of God, a matter of happiness or
misery, of life or death. To be deprived of our
husband and father, in the manner prescribed by


[Column 1]
our present persecutors is to be robbed not only
of him who is the man of our choice above all
others on earth, the being dearest to the heart of
a wife, the father of her children, his providence,
guidance and protection, but of our honor and
good name, of our happiness and our home, aye
our home, for deprived of his society, impartially
bestowed, as designed and demanded by the
unprincipled crusaders, it would cease to be
home; but blessed with his society as heretofore,
shared justly by each of his families, I would not
exchange my lot nor my happiness nor my home,
however humble, with the doting mother of
President Grover Cleveland, nor with his wife—if
he had one—and he was better to her than rubies
or gold. Nor would I stop to imagine what the
world might say about it either. I have never
envied any woman's happiness, mine was enough
for me. I never coveted any woman's home, be-
cause my home,shared with my husband and his
wives, was good enough for me. I ask for no
better. I am satisfied with my lot. I have never
injured any living creature, to my knowledge. I
have never sought what did not legitimately be-
long to me, nor deprived any man or woman of a
single right guaranteed by the constitution of my
native land or the law of God; and in view of
these and many more facts and reasons which
might be named, is it unreasonable that I should
ask the government and the people of the United
States—"just be so kind to yourselves as to let
me and mine alone." Our circumstances, necessi-
ties and desires, nor the good of society, so far
as we are concerned, ever required the passage of
wicked and cruel laws to destroy our religion, to
and woe to our happy homes. There is no reason
why the Congress of the United States should
pass such laws as the acts of 1862 and 1882 and
the more shame for them that they should violate
their oath of office, and the constitution to do so,
and thereby foist a fearful blot upon the fair fame
of their country. These unconstitutional laws,
and the oppression resulting therefrom, and the
treatment of Utah by the parent government
throughout is
	"A blot that will remain a blot, in spite
	Of all that grave apologists may write;
	And tho' a bishop try to cleanse the stain,
	He rubs and scours the crimson spot in vain."
	How easy it would have been for our enemies
and for the authorities of the United States to
have adopted the counsel of one of old, in their
treatment of the "Mormon question" and saved
themselves from the fearful consequences of their
present course—consequences fraught with sor-
row, suffering and affliction to the Latter-day
Saints, but a thousand times more terrible to their
oppressors. Said Gamaliel, "Refrain from these
men and let them alone, for if this counsel or this
work be of men it will come to nought, but if it
be of God ye cannot overthrow it!"
	Should this work prove to be of men, the
world—"the Christian world"—would far better
have shown their Christian forbearance, by "let-
ting it alone" until it should come to nought, and
thereby have saved themselves from the fearful
and awful consequences which must follow if
"haply they be found to be fighting against God."
So far as our relation to our husbands is con-
cerned, it is not only a condition of choice, but of
sacred duty.
	We have entered into these sacred relations re-
ligiously, and not without the most overwhelming
conviction and certainty of the sacredness thereof,
incurring responsibilities which are of a binding
and eternal nature.
	These relations have been formed, in all cases
before God innocently, and in thousands of cases
as innocently before the country, and these obliga-
tions have occurred as innocently, and what are
we to do about it? Should we shrink and cower
before the unjust, merciless, vindictive foe, and

[Column 2]
surrender all that we hold dear and sacred on
earth and in heaven, and become craven cowardly
backsliders, forfeiting all claim to honest woman-
hood and the hope of heavenly recognition in
time and throughout eternity?
	Who can contemplate such a course without
feeling a shudder of horror thrill their soul! Or
shall we calmly trust in God and stand by our
convictions, our husbands, and our children, let
come what may, and maintain our homes, made
doubly sacred by the eternal covenants of the
Gospel to the last? We cannot afford to do
otherwise, we have too much at stake and our
husbands having even more to lose than we have
personally, must stand true, whether in bonds, or
prison, or life or death. I am,
			Yours for the truth,
								J. L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	THE LATEST FROM EDMUNDS.

THE MOST OUTRAGEOUS ANTI-"MORMON" BILL
	YET PRESENTED BEFORE CONGRESS.

	In the Senate of the United States, Decem-
ber 8th, 1885, Mr. Edmunds introduced the
following bill (S. 10), which was read twice
and referred to the Committee on Judiciary:

				A BILL

To amend an act entitled "An act to amend
	section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of
	the Revised Statutes of the United States,
	in reference to bigamy, and for other pur-
	poses," approved March twenty-second, eigh-
	teen hundred and eighty-two.

	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Re-
presentatives of the United States of America in
Congress Assembled, That in any proceeding and
examination before a grand jury, a judge,
justice or a United States commissioner, or a
court, in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy,
or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of
the United States, the lawful husband or wife
of the person accused shall be a competent
witness, and may be called and may be com-
pelled to testify in such proceeding, examina-
tion or prosecution without the consent of the
husband or wife, as the case may be; but such
witness shall not be permitted to testify as to
any confidential statement or communication
made by either husband or wife to each other
during the existence of the marriage rela-
tion.
	SEC. 2. That in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any
statute of the United States, whether before a
United States commissioner, justice, judge, a
grand jury, or any court, an attachment for
any witness may be issued by the court, judge,
or commissioner, without previons subpoena,
compelling the immediate attendance of such
witness when it shall appear to the commis-
sioner, justice, judge, or court, as the case may
be, that there is reasonable ground to believe
that such witness will unlawfully fail to obey
a subpoena issued and served in the usual
course in such cases; and in such case the usual
witness fees shall be paid to such witnesses so
attached; Provided, That no person shall be
held in custody under any attachment issued
as provided by this section for a longer time
than ten days; and the person attached may at
any time secure his or her discharge from cus-
tody by executing a recognizance, with suffi-
cient sureties conditioned for the appearance of
such person at the proper time as a witness in
the cause or proceeding wherein the attachment
may be issued.
	SEC. 3. That any prosecution under any
statute of the United States for bigamy, poly-
gamy or unlawful cohabitation may be com-
menced at any time within five years next
after the commission of the offense; but this

[Column 2]
provision shall not be construed to apply to
any offense already barred by any existing
statute of limitations.
	SEC. 4. That every ceremony of marriage,
or in the nature of a marriage ceremony, of
any kind, in any of the Territories of the
United States, whether either or both or more
of the parties to such ceremony be lawfully
competent to be the subjects of such marriage
or ceremony or not, shall be certified in writ-
ing by a certificate stating the fact and nature
of such ceremony, the full names of each of
the parties concerned, and the full name of
every officer, priest or person, by whatever style
or designation called or known, in any way
taking part in the performance of such cere-
mony, which certificate shall be drawn up and
signed by the parties to such ceremony, and
by every officer, priest and person taking part
in the performance of such ceremony, and
shall be by the officer, priest or other person
solemnizing such marriage or ceremony, filed
in the office of the probate court, or, if there
be none, in the office of the court having pro-
bate powers in the county or district in which
such ceremony shall take place, for record, and
shall be immediately recorded. Such certifi-
cate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
required by this act to be stated therein, in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, in which the
matter shall be drawn in question. Any per-
son who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misde-
meanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not more than one thou-
sand dollars, or by imprisonment not longer
than two years, or by both said punishments, in
the discretion of the court.
	SEC. 5. That every certificate, record, and
entry of any kind concerning any ceremony of
marriage, or in the nature of a marriage cere-
mony of any kind, made or kept by an officer,
clergyman, priest, or person performing civil
or ecclesiastical functions, whether lawful or
not, in any Territory of the United States, and
any record thereof in any office or place, shall
be subject to inspection at all reasonable times
by any judge, magistrate, or officer of justice
appointed under the authority of the United
States, and shall, on request, be produced and
shown to such judge, magistrate, or officer by
any person in whose possession or control the
same may be. Every person who shall violate
the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on convic-
tion thereof, be punished by a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment
not longer than two years, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
And it shall be lawful for any United States
commissioner, justice, judge, or court before
whom any proceedings shall be pending in
which such certificate, record, or entry may be
material, by proper warrant, to cause such cer-
tificate, record, or entry, and the book, docu-
ment, or paper containing the same, to be taken
and brought before him or it for the purposes
of such proceeding.
	SEC. 6. That nothing in this act shall be
held to prevent the proof of marriages, whether
lawful or unlawful, by any evidence now legal-
ly admissible for that purpose.
	SEC. 7. That it shall not be lawful for any
female to vote at any election hereafter held in
the Territory of Utah for any public purpose
whatever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect in any manner what-
ever; and any and every act of the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah providing for or allowing the registration
or voting by females is hereby annulled.
	SEC. 8. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide for numbering or identifying the votes of
the electors at any election in said Territory
are hereby disapproved and annulled; but the


[Column 1]

foregoing provision shall not preclude the law-
ful registration of votes, or any other provis-
ions for securing fair elections which do not
involve the disclosure of the candidates for
whom any particular elector shall have
voted.
	SEC. 9. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
conferring jurisdiction upon probate courts, or
the judges thereof, or any of them in said
Territory, other than in respect of the estates
of deceased persons, and in respect of the
gaurdianship of the persons and property of
infants, and in respect of the persons and
property of persons not of sound mind, are
hereby disapproved and annulled; and no pro-
bate court or judge of probate shall exercise
any jurisdiction other than in respect of the
matters aforesaid; and every such jurisdiction
so by force of this act withdrawn from the
said probate courts or judges shall be had and
exercised by the district courts of said Terri-
tory, respectively.
	SEC. 10. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
which provide for or recognize the capacity of
illegitimate children to inherit or to be entitled
to any distributive share in the estate of the
father of such illegitimate child are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and no illegitimate
child shall hereafter be entitled to inherit from
his or her father or to receive any distributive
share in the estate of his or her father: Pro-
vided, That this section shall not apply to any
illegitimate child born previous to the passage
of this act.
	SEC. 11. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide that prosecution for adultery can only be
commenced on the complaint of the husband
or wife are hereby disapproved and annulled;
and all prosecutions for adultery may be insti-
tuted in the same way that prosecutions for
other crimes are.
	SEC. 12. That the acts of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah incorporating, continuing
or providing for the corporation known as the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and the ordinance of the so-called General As-
sembly of the State of Deseret incorporating
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, so far as the same may now have legal
force and validity, are hereby disapproved and
annulled, so far as the same may preclude the
appointment by the United States of certain
trustees of said corporation as is hereinafter
provided. The President of the United States,
by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, shall appoint fourteen trustees of the
said corporation, who shall have and exercise
all the powers and functions of trustees and
assistant trustees provided for in the laws
creating, amending, or continuing the said
corporation, which trustees so appointed shall
hold their respective offices for the term of two
years; and the trustees of said corporation shall
annually or oftener make a full report to the
Secretary of the Interior embracing all the
property, business affairs, and operations of the
said corporation; and the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah shall not have power
to change the laws respecting said corporation
without the approval of Congress. Said trustees
shall each give bond, payable to the United
States, with good and sufficient security, for
the faithful discharge of the duties incumbent
upon him as trustee, in such sum as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
	SEC 13. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to in-
stitute and prosecute proceedings to forfeit and
escheat to the United States the property of
corporations obtained or held in violation of
section three of the act of Congress approved
the first day of July, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, entitled "An act to punish and pre-

[Column 2]

vent the practice of polygamy in the Terri-
tories of the United States and other places,
and disapproving and annulling certain acts
of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah," or in violation of section eighteen
hundred and ninety of the Revised Statutes
of the United States; and all such property so
forfeited and escheated to the United States
shall be disposed of by the Secretary of the
Inforior, and the proceeds thereof applied to
the use and benefit of the common schools in
the Territory in which such property may be:
Provided, That no building shall be forfeited
which is held and occupied exclusively for
purposes of religious worship.
	SEC. 14. That in any proceeding for the
enforcement of the provisions of law against
corporations or associations acquiring or hold-
ing property in any Territory of the United
States in excess of the amount limited by
law, the court before which such proceeding
may be instituted shall have power in a sum-
mary way to compel the production of all
books, records, papers and documents of or
belonging to any trustee or person holding or
controlling or managing property in which
such corporation may have any right, title or
interest whatever.
	SEC. 15. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, or of the
so-called government of the State of Deseret,
creating, organizing, amending, or continuing
the corporation or association called the Per-
petual Emigrating Fund Company are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and it shall not be
lawful for the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of Utah to create, organize, or in
any manner recognize any corporation or as-
sociation for the purpose of or operating to
accomplish the bringing of persons into the
said Territory for any purpose whatsoever.
	SEC. 16. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to
cause such proceedings to be taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, as
shall be proper to dissolve the said corporation,
and pay the debts and to dispose of the pro-
perty and assets thereof according to law.
Said property and assets, in excess of the
debts and the amount of any lawful claims
established by the court against the same. shall
escheat to the United States, and shall be
taken, invested, and disposed of by the Secre-
tary of the Interior, under the direction of
the President of the United States, for the
benefit of common schools in said Territory.
	SEC. 17. That the existing election districts
and apportionments of representation concern-
ing the members of the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah, are hereby abolished;
and it shall be the duty of the Governor, Ter-
ritorial Secretary, and the United States
Judges, in said Territory, forthwith to redis-
trict said Territory, and apportion representa-
tion in the same in such manner as to provide,
as nearly as may be, for an equal representa-
tion of the people (excepting Indians not
taxed), being citizens of the United States,
according to numbers, in said Legislative
Assembly, and to the number of members of
the Council and House of Representatives,
respectively, as now established by law; and a
record of the establishment of such new dis-
tricts, and the apportionment of representa-
tion thereto, shall be made in the office of the
Secretary of said Territory, and such estab-
lishment and representation shall continue un-
til Congress shall otherwise provide; and no
persons other than citizens of the United
States otherwise qualified, shall be entitled to
vote at any election in said Territory.
	SEC. 18. That the provisions of section nine
of said act approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two, in regard
to registration of voters, and the conduct of
elections, and the powers and duties of the

[Column 3]

board therein mentioned, shall continue and
remain operative until the provision and laws
therein referred to, to be made and enacted
by the Legislative Assembly of said Territory
of Utah, shall have been made and enacted
by said Assembly, and shall have been ap-
pointed by Congress.
	SEC. 19. That whoever commits adultery
shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding three years; and
when the act is committed between a married
woman and a man who is unmarried, both
parties to such act shall be deemed guilty of
adultery; and when such act is committed be-
tween a married man and a woman who is un-
married, the man shall be deemed guilty of
adultery.
	SEC. 20. That if any unmarried man or
woman commits fornication, each of them
shall be punished by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 21. That commissioners appointed by the
supreme court and district courts in the Terri-
tory of Utah shall possess and may exercise
all the powers and jurisdiction that are or may
be possessed or exercised by justices of the
peace in said Territory under the laws thereof,
and the same powers conferred by law on com-
missioners appointed by circuit courts of the
United States.
	SEC. 22. That the marshal of said Terri-
tory of Utah, and his deputies, shall possess
and may exercise all the powers in executing
the laws of the United States possessed and
exercised by sheriffs and their deputies as
peace officers; and each of them shall cause
all offenders against the law, in his view, to
enter into cognizance to keep the peace and
to appear at the next term of the court hav-
ing jurisdiction of the case, and to commit to
jail in case of failure to give such recognizance.
They shall quell and suppress assaults and
batteries, riots, routs, affrays, and insurrect-
tions, and shall apprehend and commit to jail
all felons.
	SEC. 23. That the office of Territorial su-
perintendent of district schools created by the
laws of Utah is hereby declared vacant; and
it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court of
said Territory to appoint a Territorial superin-
tendent of district schools, and who shall pos-
sess and exercise all the powers and duties
imposed by the laws of said Territory upon
the Territorial superintendent of district
schools, and shall receive the same salary and
compensation, which shall be paid out of the
treasury of said Territory; and the laws of
the Territory of Utah providing for the
method of election and appointment of such
Territorial superintendent of district schools
are hereby suspended until the further action
of Congress shall be had in respect thereto.
The said superintendent shall have power to
prohibit the use in any district school of any
book of a sectarian character or otherwise un-
suitable. Said superintendent shall collect
and classify statistics and other information
respecting the district schools in said Terri-
tory, showing their progress, the whole num-
ber of children of school age, the number who
attend school in each year in the respective
counties and average length of time of their
attendance, the number of teachers who are
Mormons, the number who are so-called Gen-
tiles, the number of children of Mormon pa-
rents and the number of children of so-called
Gentile parents, and their respective average
attendance at school. All of which statistics
and information shall be annually reported to
Congress, through the Governor of said Ter-
ritory and the Department of the Interior.
	SEC. 24. (a) A widow shall be endowed of
the third part of all the lands whereof her
husband was seized of an estate of inheritance
at any time during the marriage.


(b) The widow of any alien who at the time
of his death shall be entitled by law to hold
any real estate if she be an inhabitant of the
Territory at the time of such death, shall be
entitled to dower of such estate in the same
manner as if such alien had been a native
citizen.
	(c) If a husband seized of an estate of inherit-
ance in lands exchanges them for other lands,
his widow shall not have dower of both, but
shall make her election to be endowed of the
lands given or of those taken in exchange;
and if such election be not evinced by the
commencement of procedings to recover her
dower of the lands given in exchange within
one year after the death of her husband, she
shall be deemed to have elected to take her
dower of the lands received in exchange.
	(d) when a person seized of an estate of in-
heritance in lands shall have executed a mort-
gage on such estate before marriage, his widow
shall nevertheless be entitled to dower out of
the lands mortgaged as against every person
except the mortgagee and those claiming under
him.
	(e) Where a husband shall purchase lands
during coverture, and shall at the same time
mortgage his estate in such lands to secure the
payment of the purchase-money, his widow
shall not be entitled to dower out of such lands,
as against the mortgagee or those claiming un-
der him, although she shall not have united in
such mortgage; but she shall be entitled to her
dower as against all other persons.
	(f) Where in such case the mortgagee, or
those claiming under him, shall, after the
death of the husband of such widow, cause the
land mortgaged to be sold, either under a
power of sale contained in the mortgage or
by virtue of the decree of a court of equity,
and if any surplus shall remain after payment
of the moneys due on such mortgage and the
cost and charges of the sale, such widow shall
nevertheless be entitled to the interest or in-
come of the one third-part of such surplus, for
her life, as her dower.
	(g) A widow shall not be endowed of lands
conveyed to her husband by way of mortgage
unless he acquire an absolute estate therein
during the marriage period.
	(h) In case of divorce dissolving the mar-
riage contract for the misconduct of the wife,
she shall not be endowed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		SLATERVILLE.

	The Slaterville Relief Society was re-organ-
ized Nov. 27th, 1885. There were present, the
Bishop and his Counselors, Apostle F. D.
Richards, Sister Richards, Sister Brown, Presi-
dent and Counselors of Weber Stake; also the
Relief Society of the ward. The former
president, Sister Mary Field, having resigned
on account of her great age, the following
officers were appointed: Sister Mary Karney,
President; Mary Jane Allred and Helen Perry,
Counselors; Isabella J. Allred, Secretary;
Charlotte Bartholomew, Assistant Secretary;
Hannah Dasney, Treasurer.
		Respectfully your sisters,
				M. A. KARNEY, Prest.,
				I. J. ALLRED, Sec.

			DAVIS STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
Davis Stake was held at Farmington, Jan. 8th,
1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Prests. Wm.
R. Smith and Anson Call met with us for the
purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing
a president, as our former president had been
called to labor in another capacity. Sister
Susan Grant was chosen, a vote was taken, and
being unanimously sustained, she was set apart


as president of the Relief Society of Davis.
Stake.
	Sister Presendia Kimball and Doctor Ellen
B. Ferguson were present. They gave us some
very good instructions, and urged the mothers
to look well to their children; be careful to
implant the principles of truth and virtue in
their young minds.
	We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit
prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively
interest in the cause.
			RHODA HINMAN, Secretary.

			ST. GEORGE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—At the quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of the St. George Stake,
held in the Lyceum on the 12th ult., some
change was made in the presiding officers.
Our much esteemed president, Sister Minerva
W. Snow, having found it necessary to relin-
quish that position, sent in her resignation,
which was, with reluctance, accepted, and
a heartfelt and unanimous vote of thanks was
returned, for her kind and unremitting
labors.
	Sister Anna L. Ivins was then invited to
fill the office, which she accepted, and was sus-
tained by unanimous vote with Sister Mary B.
Eyring as first, and Sister Ann C. Woodbury
as second Counselor. The Society has been
actively engaged of late in furnishing carpet
for the St. George Temple, donating quilts
etc., etc.
			Respectfully,
		M. A. G. BAKER, Cor. Secretary.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Graham Bread.—Two cupfuls of Graham flour, two
cupfuls of Indian meal, two cupfuls of sweet milk, one
cupful of sour milk, one cupful of molasses, one teaspoon-
ful of soda, and a little salt; steam the bread for two hours,
and then dry it for a few minutes in a hot oven.

	Fried Cakes.—One pint of buttermilk, one egg, half a
teaspoonful of salt, eight teaspoonfuls of shortening, one
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water;
use nutmeg and cinnamon for seasoning. Add sufficient
flour to roll the batter, and fry it in hot lard. This makes
one large panful of the cakes.

	Sponge Cake.—Beat three eggs for one minute; add one
heaping cupful of white sugar, beat it with the eggs for five
minutes; a cupful of flour, and beat it one minute; half a
cupful of cold water, stirring it well. Then add another
cupful of flour containing two teaspoonfuls of baking
powder, and heat the mixture for one minute. Use salt
and flavoring to taste. Bake the cake in a slow oven.

	Fried Chicken.—Wash your chickens, cut them into
pieces, and season them with pepper and salt. Have in a
pan some hot butter and lard, mixed; dust some flour over
each of the pieces, and fry them slowly until they become
a bright brown on both sides; take them up, put a little
water in the pan, add some butter rolled in flour to thicken
the gravy, and more pepper and salt, if required. Young
spring chickens are suitable only for frying.


[Column 1]
[All text centered]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[icon of a pointing hand] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing hand icon] Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing hand icon] Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[Column to the left of the drawing]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[Column to the right of drawing]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years. 
[Continue Column 2 beneath the drawing]
Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
