VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1885.	NO. 6.


ASPIRATIONS OF THE SOUL.

Teach me to know the mystic art
	Of drawing near to Thee!
Teach me to know eternal life,
	By being one with Thee.

Teach me the knowledge how I may
	Indeed behold Thy face!
The vision of my mind expand,
	That I may see the place
Appointed in the realms above
	For me, and all that's mine—
I only ask that we may be
	With Jesus—the DIVINE.

I worship Him—He seems so near
	His footprints I can trace—
This very earth. He's walked upon,
	And I can paint His face!

But there's another, higher still,
	Whom Jesus "Father" called,
Will mortal ever see revealed
	The God of all the world?

Oh! mystery of mysteries,
	Oh! how my soaring soul
Yearns for a glimpse of that grand Sight,
	Whose word the worlds control.

He'll fill the longings of my soul,
	He'll set my spirit free—
My brain and limbs, yea, all I am,
	Enfranchised then will be.

Savior, I bring my soul to Thee,
	Disrobed from things of time;
Touch me but with Thine holy touch,
	And seal me ever thine.

	HANNAH T. KING.
August 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]

A SONG OF ZION.

[SUNG IN TONGUES BY ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY, AT
NAUVOO, 1843, AND INTERPRETED IN VERSE BY
PARLEY. P. PRATT.]

Age after age has rolled away,
Since man first dwelt in mortal clay;
And countless millions sleep in death,
That once supplied a place on earth.

According to the fate of man,
Which God had fix'd in His own plan,
So age must come, and age must go,
Till work complete is here below,

Which has been seen by Saints of old,
And by the prophets was foretold;
Which wondrous things are drawing near,
That Enoch saw and Saints did cheer.

Enoch, who did converse with God,
Stood on the mount and stretched abroad
His soul, wide as eternity—
He rent the veil and heaven did see.

With mighty faith he did expand—
O'er earth and heaven, o'er sea and land;
Till things above and things below,
He did behold, yea, did them know.

His heart he tun'd to notes above,
His soul o'erwhelmed with boundless love;
He sang a song in heavenly lays,
While angels' tongues joined him in praise.

With finger ends God touched his eyes,
That he might gaze within the skies;
His voice he raised to God on high,
Who heard his groans and drew him nigh.

[Column 2]

With joy and wonder, all amazed,
Amid the heavenly throng he gazed;
While heavenly music charmed his ear,
And angels' notes removed all fear.

"Hosanna!" he aloud did cry,
"To God who dwells above the sky,"
Again "Hosanna" did resound
Among the heavenly hosts around.

His voice, he raised in higher strain,
Echoed, and re-echoed again;
Till heaven and earth his voice did hear,
Eternity did record bear.

The trump of God around the throne
Proclaimed the power of God anon;
And sounded loud what should take place;
From age to age, from race to race.

Among the heavenly hosts he sang
God's scheme of life for sinful man;
And for the Gospel's saving grace,
He praised the Father face to face.

The end of all his labors here,
Were all unfolded to him there;
His city raised to dwell on high,
With all the Saints above the sky.

He saw before him all things past,
From end to end, from first to last;
Yea, things before the world began,
Or dust was fashioned into man.

The place of Adam's first abode,
While in the presence of his God;
Before the mountains raised their heads,
Or the small dust His balance weighed.

With God he saw his race began,
And from Him emanated man;
And with Him did in glory dwell,
Before there was an earth or hell.

From age to age whate'er took place,
Was present then before his face;
And, to the latest years of man,
Was plain before him heaven's plan.

His eyes with wonder did behold
Eternal glories yet untold;
And glorious things of latter time,
Which angels have to tell to man.

He then did hear, in days of old,
The message that to John was told;
The Angel who the news did bring,
He heard him talk, and heard him sing;

And knew before the days of John,
What glories were on him to dawn;
The message which he did receive
He heard, and saw, and did believe.

He knew full well what John should hear
Concerning times and latter years;
When God again should set His hand
To gather Israel to their land.

The Gospel then from darkest shades
Should rise and go with rapid strides;
Till nations distant, far and near,
The glorious proclamation hear.

The Angel that this news proclaims
Should come and visit earth again;
Commit the Gospel, long since lost,
To man, with power, as at the first.


[Column 1]
	A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	I read, not long since, an address delivered
at Denver by Bishop Tuttle, in which he gives
the "older Mormons" the credit of being "un-
selfish, prayerful and unworldly minded," and
says: "I can't see that Mormonism is less strong

[Column 2]
﻿to-day than it was eighteen years ago. The
strength of Mormonism is a marvel. When I
first went to Utah I had an idea that Mormon-
ism was destined, in time, to be destroyed by
its own elements of weakness, and in time it
would fling the institution to its death.” He
expresses what has been the world’s opinion for
fifty years or more, but they seem no nearer
to solving this great problem than when they
first began. 
	The testimony of Bishop Tuttle should have
some weight. He testified that from his first
acquaintance with Brigham Young and the
"Mormons,” he had never been unfairly inter-
fered with. He gives his own ideas concern-
ing polygamy, and why it is such a “strength
to the Mormon system,” and says: “The ties of
kindred are very strong, and if we were Mor-
mons we should be very apt to do very much
the same thing.” He has manifested a Chris-
tian spirit, and certainly he ought to be be-
lieved, as he has lived in this city years enough
to become better acquainted with the people
than those who have been but transient visi-
tors, and have sought notoriety, by describing
“Life among the Mormons.”
	He gives one of the strongest testimonies to
the Godliness of Mormonism, though uninten-
tional on his part, but we accept it in that
light. It is no wonder to us that it is so hard
for other sects to convert adult “Mormons.”
Mormonism is a “marvel and a wonder,” but
its destiny is marked out in that ancient record,
the Bible, by inspired prophets, and seers, and
the day is here which so many longed to see,
but died without the sight.
	The same spirit and power that moved them 
to speak of things which they foresaw—
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith—whom the
Lord took while an untutored boy, before his
mind had been warped by the ideas and doc-
trines of men, that He could reveal His will
to the poor and the meek, who were to be
gathered from all nations, kindred, tongues
and people, and we see them flocking by
thousands to our standard, in fulfillment of the
Scriptures.
	There appears such a spirit of fearfulness,
especially among the ministers of the various
denominations, who seem aware of their ina-
bility to stop this work. But Jesus says, “My-
sheep will hear my voice,” and His shepherds
can be easily distinguished from those who
preach for hire and divine for money. They
go forth as commanded by Jesus and trust
Him as their paymaster when they have ful-
filled His command.
	There is one great peculiarity in Mormonism,
which may be noted. Those who have
adopted the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
never go back to enjoy their former religion,
but almost invariably fall into infidelity or
spiritualism. The most of this people have
been converted from the different sects, and
are well posted in the tenets of the various re-
ligious doctrines of the day, but when they
have received the light of this Gospel, that
which they had formerly received fades, and
becomes as a dim taper before the more glori-
ous light which penetrates and fills every part
to the exclusion of all others, which it casts
forever into the shadow of the past. The most-
illiterate “Mormon” is able to comprehend and
explain the principles which they have es-
poused, because they have received a portion
of that divine power that was enjoyed by the
ancient Saints. It brings with it all the


[Column 1]
﻿spiritual gifts and blessings of the Gospel of
Christ, instead of shutting up that fountain of
light and inspiration, from which i[-] is the
privilege of every soul to drink freely, without
money and without price, and contenting
themselves with inferior lights, or the little
that uninspired men may think proper to deal
out.
	The religion called Mormonism takes in all
that belongs to the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
while other churches receive only a part, and
add to it their own vagaries and still call
themselves Christians; and they hate and per-
secute those who have received the true light
which has driven away the darkness that had
shrouded their minds, in regard to this great
and glorious work, and which it would have
been impossible for them to comprehend, had
they still been contented to worship an un-
known God, without body parts or passions,
though we are plainly told in the Scriptures
that He begot Christ in the flesh, and that He
was the express image of His Father, differing
only in age and authority, and that He ate
and drank with His Saints, and taught His
Apostles all that He desired them to teach to
the world, and which, if obeyed, would eventu-
ally bring the human race up to that perfect 
standard, which means nothing more nor less
than the Godhead. This Gospel contains the
keys which unlock the mysteries that per-
tain to the past, present and future, but which
none can understand, nor obtain only by faith
and humility, with constant study, and the cul-
vation of the attributes of the Deity, which
He has implanted in every man and woman.
And they can advance or they can remain
in a state of ignorance. Satan has substituted
spiritualism for the true Gospel, to deceive
those who have a craving for the mysteries,
but have not the key which unlocks the true
mysteries, in which there is a substance and a
reality without fanaticism, or the religious
frenzy which follows other than the true and
genuine Gospel. We "can force no man to
heaven," and Satan is determined to prevent
all he can from finding tho true path, which
is so straight and narrow that few there will
be who will find it. 
	The glorious mysteries which this Gospel re-
veals, and are continually opening to our view,
as we advance in this mortal state, are calcu-
lated to strengthen the weak against temptaion,
and make them more willing to endure the
trials and persecutions, which they are called
to pass through for the Gospel's sake, than to
yield it up to gain the favor of the whole world.
This is the great problem, and which they can-
not solve, because they refuse to accept the
true key.
	The people of God were to be hated of all
men, and we have every reason to believe
this to be the true church, as we now see the
whole world arrayed against it. For this rea-
son we have more cause to rejoice than any
other people; but it is a sad thought that so
many evils have crept into the midst of a
community who have enjoyed such great bless-
ings.  But those who are walking in the true
light are more or less prepared for the events
which are now transpiring, and can hold up
their heads, and endure, knowing that it is only
for a little season, and by these things the pur-
poses of the Almighty will be more quickly
accomplished.	
	The fates, at present, seem against us, and
the clouds may still press down heavier, even
till they assume the blackness of midnight,
still the God of Our fathers will be in their
midst, as He has been from the beginning—
pouring oil upon the troubled waters, and
whispering peace to those who sought Him
early and found Him. Were the world able
to comprehend these things, or to  see the
wealth and exaltation that awaits His faithful
children, there would be a rush from every

[Column 2]
quarter to obtain it. But these things are
hidden "from the wise and prudent,” and only
revealed “unto babes,” who have held on to
every spark or beam which has lain within
their grasp, that they might attain to that per-
fection which is required before we can enter
or dwell in His holy presence.
	Not many days hence and the power of the
oppressor will be broken when the poor and
meek, whose garments have been made pure
through suffering, will reap their reward, and
all the remnants of Israel, and of Jacob, who
have been smitten and driven to the ends of
the earth, will be converted to the fulness of
the everlasting Gospel, and the hearts of
thousands and tens of thousands will be made
glad, and rejoice together in the blessings that
will be poured out upon Zion, when she comes
forth out of the wilderness and shines “forth
fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible
as an army with banners,”
	H. M. WHITNEY.
August 10th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ESSAY READ BEFORE Y. L. M. I. A.,

	BURNHAM, San Juan, July 24th, 1885.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:
	As my name is on the programme for a reci-
tation, I beg leave to read the following
thoughts instead:
	In endeavoring to find something for the
present time, one's mind is so bewildered with 
such a mixture of ideas that it is difficult to
gather the better ones together so that they
may be readily understood; however, as I claim
to be neither a speaker or a writer you will not
criticise my attempt with too much severity,
and I trust that the little here presented may
be done so by the Spirit of God, for I know
that without this same Spirit it is impossible to
interest.
	It is certainly time that we, as Latter-day
Saints, old or young, should be alive to the
duties devolving upon us as mothers, wives or
daughters. We each have our part to play in
the great drama of the present day, when the
prince of darkness, with his hosts infernal, are
plotting to destroy the Kingdom of God, and
tempt the Saints to break the covenants we
have made with each other and our Heavenly
Father; and unless we are humble, Satan will
have more or less power over us; but if we
strictly attend to every known duty and be
very prayerful, dedicating our all to God, we
will come off victorious, though the struggle 
may be long and hard. We may sometimes
feel, as His daughters, that we are given more
trials than we are able to overcome, and that
the sacrifices we are called to make are very
great, even more than we can bear; and they
would be, were we not led by that sweet spirit
that whispers peace and comfort to every heart.
What our Father has given us to bear is for
our eternal happiness and glory in the great
hereafter; and even here, were we to view it
from a truly unselfish standpoint, God requires
nothing at the hands of His children, man or
woman, only that which would be for their
greatest good, physically, intellectually and
spiritually, if we would accept it as given.
Then He has given us our weaknesses to over-
come so that we may not forget our dependence
on that mighty arm that never groweth weak.
We are also blest with faithful husbands, on
whom we can lean with perfect trust, knowing
that we will never be forsaken as long as they
remain true to the principles of the Gospel,
for deserting wives and innocent children is
not one of the creeds of Mormonism, and
though our best men are brought before courts,
where, it seems, Lucifer himself rules, where
our faith is mocked at, the sacred relationship

[Column 2]

we hold to each other is ridiculed, delicate
women insulted, innocence outraged, the in-
mates of loved homes driven as fugitives,
while the same courts will turn adrift the
adulterer, the murderer and the perpetrators
of the most damning crimes, and yet an intelli-
gent world will not say it is unjust; but we
know and say, that though prison walls may
stand between what God has united, and death
itself stare us in the face, or even come with
all its grim terrors, they cannot separate us
from our loved one only for a time, for our
union of heart and soul is an eternal tie,
bound by the power of heaven, and even hell,
with all its legions, cannot tear it asunder, if
we ourselves keep our obligations.
	Why our sisters of the world really pity us,
but they can never know how much more we
pity them, and would not give up our humble
faith in God and our quiet homes, for their
millions and dazzling splendor, for well we 
know it is a hollow mockery. The happiness
many of them feign, and the smooth surface,
often only covers a seething torrent of wretched-
ness beneath.
	We should feel, and I believe we do, that we
are a highly favored few. How could we live
and know that the fathers of our innocent
babes were destroyers of virtue, ruiners of
happy homes, and their very pretence of honor
was a living lie of the blackest hue? Yet some
who so kindly sympathize with us feel that the
man they call by the sacred name of husband
or father, is unworthy and their better
nature shrinks from the luring serpent;
but they are bound with the chains of Baby-
lon, which are linked with fear and pride, and
in time they learn to crush all the true in-
stincts of pure and true womanhood. While
we develop the love and desire for children,
many are bringing down the curse of an offend-
ed God on themselves, by destroying this in-
nocence before it is given birth.
	If, instead of condemning us without know-
ing why, they would study to find out the real
motives that govern our people, they could
partially understand that we willingly share
the love and comforts of our homes because it
is a command; that, being convinced of its
truth, we dare not disobey, and we have learned
that we can overcome our selfishness to the
extent that a willing obedience to this law will
bring greater joy than any other earthly condi-
tion could possibly do, and we can love the
ones chosen even as natural, and I believe
there is often an affection surpassing this; but
if we do let the evil one creep into our hearts
and magnify every fault, hatred and untold
misery will fill our bosoms, instead of that
sweet peace, which we can have if we choose.
I think I not only speak the feelings of the
few sisters in our isolated home, but all
through our fair Utah, that we, as a band of
sisters, are made more determined by the
present persecution to live nearer to God,
while we will do all we can to rear our child-
ren so they will follow in the footsteps of those 
who so nobly lead the way.
	The events of this memorable day, many
years ago, will ever remain green in the hearts
of the Saints, and they will bleed anew over
the sufferings of our noble pioneers, and the
trials and privations of our parents who set-
tled the once sterile, but now lovely Deseret.
	Shall we not strive to become worthy such
parents, and say, "God bless and protect them,
and our honored leaders, and all the loved
ones, from the clutches of that wicked one,
who is ever on the alert to lead us from the
principles of right and justice.
		MARY S. BURNHAM.


The number of American women exceeds
the entire foreign born population both men
and women, three to one.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS

[Written for the entertainment given of Mesa City, July
15th, 1885 in honor of the brethren who have been im-
prisoned at Yuma for obeying God's holy law.]

	The daughters of Zion, who believe in the law of celes-
tial marriage, and feel to firmly stand by their brethren in
keeping this law, and uphold them by their faith and
prayers.
	To all those, who have been, are now, or may be im-
mured in prison, or are exiles from their homes and loved
ones, because of their belief in, and practice of the holy law
which God has commanded His priesthood to obey, or they
shall be cut off from His presence.
		Brethren—
Among the noblest ones that ever graced the footstool
Of our God, with feelings akin to love we greet you;
And while we do rejoice that you again are free,
Our hearts are filled with praise to Him
Who rules above, and holds within His hands
The destinies of all.
		We feel to give great honor unto those
Who being called of God to bear His holy priesthood
On the earth, obedient, enter into covenant with Him
To keep His laws and serve Him all their days,
Willing to bear the cross that they may wear the crown.
	What nobler sight can we behold
Than that of men who firmly stand for principles,
God given, nor flinch, nor grow weak kneed,
But bear the penalty inflicted by oppressive laws,
With consciousness that they have done no wrong,
That they should be immured in prison house
Among the vile, condemned for crimes
		Of darkest dye.
	Like honor, also, unto those who wisely keep
Themselves aloof from those, their bitter foes,
Who, in the name of Law, twist and untwist,
And overturn their own decisions,
Determined to convict, at any cost,
All those whom they may get within their power.
		Can he forget, whose body bears
The marks of the assassin's ball that, when
The honor of a state was pledged, it was no safeguard
To God's chosen ones to shield them from the fiendish
	mob,
Who sought their lives, tho' innocent of crime.
		And shall he yield himself into their hands,
When well he knows the course they would pursue,
Tho' he has sought to honor unjust laws in his own life,
But has not sent his loved ones forth, nor broke
His sacred covenants with them?
		May God forbid,
	And shield the lives and liberty of those
Whom He has called to lead His people on the earth,
And give them power to counsel by His will
In things pertaining to the Zion of our God.
			From women's hearts,
		As virtuous, pure and true as ever lived upon the
	earth;
They who have lived this law, and they who have not,
Who know by revelation to themselves that 'tis God's law,
Which he will yet defend, and bring to nought
All those, who do oppose, and cause
That "all iniquity shall stop her mouth,"
While the "righteous shall rejoice,"
And from "affliction He shall set the poor on high,"
"And make Him families like a flock."
	From thousands such as these,
Daily and hourly prayers ascend to Zion's God,
For those who're called to bear these things,
That they have power to endure unto the end,
And firmly stand for every principle of right,
That when the Lord shall bring to pass His promises,
Then they may reign and rule in righteousness
		With Him.	T. L. H.
	Lehi, Arizona.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
			OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
			Concluded.
	We had considerable sickness that summer;
sometimes all but me were on the bed sick,and
it was all I could do sometimes, to keep up.
[Column 2]
But as the weather began to get cooler, we im-
proved in health. Our neighbors began to
move away- some went on to Winter Quarters,
others moved into the timber on the river bot-
tom, where fuel was plenty; and besides it
was much warmer for their cattle. The
weather began to be extremely cold, and we
were left quite alone, and the howling of the
wolves, as they prowled around at night, made
us feel very desolate and unprotected. We
made a fire in one end of the room, but there 
was not much wood women could pick up. It
was at Mt. Pisgah that I cut down my first and
last tree.  It certainly looked very much as 
though we should perish now, but the Lord
was still mindful of us.
	After the brethren had got their families
comfortably settled in the timber, they joined 
together and built us a small hut and moved
us into it.  They then hauled and chopped
wood, enough to last us all winter; they also
divided their cornfodder with us, so that we
had feed for our milk cow.  So after all  we 
spent a very comfortable and pleasant winter;
and I prya God, who is the father and friend
of the widow and orphan, and the desolate, to
bless those brethren who put forth a helping
hand to assist us in the great time of our need.
	In the spring wagons were sent from Winter
Quarters and we resumed our journey; and
when we arrived at the Missouri River,opposite
Winter Quarters,, and could look over and see
the camp of the Saints, it seemed as though
we had got almost home; for where the Saints
dwelll, whether it is in a city or a desert, a
palace or a hovel, there is my home; and may
God grant that my home may always be with
this people.
	When we crossed the river we found our
friends on the bank waiting for us.  It was a
happy meeting, for we all had endured much
suffering since our separation. Soon after my
arrival at Winter Quarters the pioneers started
fro the Rocky Mountains.  They were absent
through the summer, and returned in the fall;
and in the following spring they started with
their families to cross the plains.  We had a
long and tedious journey before us, and with
the heat and dust, the poor water, and plain
and scanty food, the journey could not be
otherwise than hard.  But I am not going to
give a description of this journey; I will leave
it for Sister Helen Mar Whitney, she can do
it so well.  But one might almost think that
she was having a pleasure trip, when compared
with some in other companies.  But however
long and tedious the trip, it came to an end.
When we got where we could look over into
the valley, it appeared as though it might be a
resting place for the weary exile; but as we
entered it looked more forbidding. Nothing
was to be seen but sagebrush and a few cotton-
wood trees along the course of City Creek. The
fort could be seen in the distance, and one
could not help but wonder where it was
possible to find so much timber as built the
fort. 
	We arrived in the valley in the fall of 1848,
making it almost three years that we were
pilgrims in the wilderness.  We necessarily
had to endure many privations and much suf-
fering.
	Now our journey was ended, but not our
trials; we were in a new country, and much
labor had to be done; our food and clothing
was scarce, and we were without almost every
comfort of life; and being so far away from
anywhere that we did not expect ever to have
anything again, except what we brought with
us, or such as would be raised or manufactured
here in the valley.  But God knows best how
to provide for His Saints, and His ways are
marvelous. When we look back and comtem-
plate the history of this Church from its
rise until the present time, who can doubt that
the hand of God has been over us, and pre-
[Column 3]
served and provided for us, and sustained us
in all our afflictions, and that everything has
tended for our best good, and in accomish-
int the purposes of the Almighty?  And al-
though our enemies have followed our footsteps,
and are still seeking our overthrow, yet the
same God reigns to-day that reigned forty and
fifty years ago, and He will turn and overturn,
until His purposes are all accomplished, and
the wicked can go no further than He permits.
When we entered the valley we had rooms in 
the fort, where I remained through the winter,
until the first day of March, 1849, when I
moved into a room in the house of Brother
Lorenzo D. Young; about nine o' clock that
evening my eldest daughter, Emily Augusta,
was born.  I have had seven children, two
boys and five girls. Five are living (1885.)
My Nauvoo boy died when he was about seven
years old; my youngest daughter, Luna, died
at seven months.
	In 1872 President Young deeded me a house
and lot in the Twelfth Ward, and before his
death he made provisions and arrangements
in his will for me to have a comfotable sup-
port while I love. I feel very grateful to
President Young and family for every kind-
ness they have shown me while sojourning
with them; and may the Lord reward all who
have extended to me their favors.
	I will now conclude this short sketch with
the blessing that I received here in this valley, 
under the hands of Uncle John Smith, on the
26th of June, 1849; it is as follows:
	Sister Emily, by virture of the holy priest-
hood, I place my hand upon thy head in the
name of Jesus of Nazareth, and seal upon thee
a patriarchal or father's blessing, for thou art
of the blood and lineage of Joseph, through
the loins of Ephraim, and a lawful heir to the
priesthood, which shall be conferred upon thee
in fulness in due time.  Thou hast seen trials
and afflictions, and thy heart has been weighted
down with sorrow; but the Lord loves thee,and
because of the integrity of thy heart He will
lift thee up.  Thou shalt be exalted to inherit
a kingdom and dominion that shall never end.
	Therefore, sister be patient, for the Lord
has great blessings in store for thee.  And I 
seal upon thee all the blessings of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob.
	Thy posterity shall be numerous, so they
cannot be numbered for multitude.  None
shall be greater in the house of Israel. Thou
shalt be blessed with riches, even all the riches
of heaven and earth; and thy name shall be
had in honorable remembrance in the house of
Israel till time shall be no more.  Thou shalt
be blessed with health and peace, and every
blessing which thy heart desires; shalt live un-
til thou art satisfied with life; shalt enjoy all
the blessings, beauties and glories of Zion;
shall come forth in the first resurrection with
all you father's family and friends that have
gone before thee, and inherit eternal lives; even
so.  Amen.


Y. L. M. I. A.

	We would call the attention of the Stake
Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. to the importance
of preparing their semi annual reports in good
time and we urge upon them the necessity of
having the report as perfect as possible and
especially to state the amount on hand at date
of last report, which is sometimes omitted. If
possible forward the reports to the secretary as
early as the 20th of September next in order
that there may be time to make the report of
the Young Ladies Associations creditable and
complete. We hope by publishing this call in 
time to obtain a report of the condition of
each stake organization of Y. L. M. I. A.
which is certainly desirable.
	LOUIE M. WELLS SECRETARY.
		Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
[----] [---] time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to [---]lar advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On the same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant
was being solemnized in New York City memori-
al services were also held in all the large cities
throughout the United States. The funeral of
this great General and Ex-President was un-
doubtedly the grandest and most imposing of that
of any American however distinguished he may
have been. Full descriptions of the ceremonies
and complete reports of the addresses delivered
are published in the Eastern journals and news-
papers.
	Memorial services were performed for Gen.
Grant in Westminster Abbey on the 4th of August
No greater compliment could be paid to hi.
memory by the English people. Canon Ferrar
one of the most celebrated divines of modern
times delivered an address which embodied the
most delicate sentiments of affection and friend-
ship and admiration for his genius as a soldier in
battle and his devotion to his country in times of
peace. His own countrymen could scarcely do him
more justice or offer truer praise than the tribute
this eminent preacher paid to his goodness and
greatness.
	Preparations on quite a grand scale were begun
in this city at an early date, the matter being in
the hands of a committee of the G. A. R. The 
same day that the funeral of Gen. Grant took
place in New York, memorial services were held
in Liberty Park in this city in which thousands
of people joined. The procession was quite an
elaborate one, and made an imposing display as
it wended its way through the streets on the
route to the Park, with muffled drums and funeral
marches. All the principal personages were
seated on the platform which was quite handsome-
ly draped in black, enlivened here and there with
white garlands, wreaths, crosses and other orna-
ments of choice flowers were displayed,
crape and ribbon, black and white, were wound
around pillars and in suitable places giving the
platform a very handsome appearance as a tribute
of beauty as well as symbol of mourning.
	A very large and elegant painting of Gen.
Grant by Dan Wiggeland of this city was con-
spicuously placed at the back of the stand so as
to be noticable by all the people assembled. It
was heavily and gracefully draped in crape. An-
other smaller painting was on the speaker's table
which was tastefully draped in crape with ribbon
and flowers.
	Several bands of music were in attendance
disposed in different parts of the assembly and
played alternately. The first part of the pro-
cession arrived at the park about 11.30 and the
last after 12. Soon after Commander Hoffman
called the meeting to order and the Opera House
Band played in a very feeling and pathetic style
"Nearer my God to thee." Chaplain of the day
Rev. John Walker Jackson made the opening
prayer, at the close repeating the Lord's prayer
in which all the members of Grand Army of the
Republic joined.

[Column 2]

	Governor Murray was then introduced as Presi-
dent of the day and delivered the opening ad-
dress, a written one, after which he announced
the Ritual Service of the Grand Army to the
Record of the Dead by James B. McKean Post.
	At the command "Attention" from Commander
Hoffman the members of the G. A. R. all rose to
their feet and were asked by the Commander, for
what purpose was this meeting called, and also
if they had a record of the services of the hon-
ored dead in the cause of our country etc., to
which they replied in the affirmative and formally
and politely requested comrade Murray to read it.
Governor Murray then read The Record of the
Dead, a very graphically written and elaborate
paper containing historical data and incidents of
his military life also his presidential career and
closing with some telling paragraphs, laudatory
of his life and character as a soldier, a statesman
and a citizen of the world. At the close of the
reading Commander Hoffman said: "The record
is an honorable one, and as the memory of all
faithful soldiers of the Republic should be
cherished, and their record preserved. I direct
that it be placed in the archives of the Post for
future reference.
	The Ritual service of the G. A. R. by the
Chaplain responded to by comrades was the next
exercise in the order of the day, after which
Governor Ramsey gave a written speech very ap-
preciative and eulogistic of the great General and
his friendship for the man. Judge Bennett's was
the next written address and was more elaborate
in composition than any of the others. His man-
ner in delivering it was strikingly emotional. W.
C. Hall was next on the programme, his speech
was short and comprehensive.
	Hon. Arthur L. Thomas made the closing address,
and speaking without notes and in a very earnest
tone of voice with an impressive manner seemed
really the most inspirational of all the speeches
delivered. The Chaplain pronounced the bene-
diction and the exercises closed with music by
the band. The several bands played some very
inspiring music at intervals during the exercises
and altogether the gathering was a very creditable
one in every respect except for the entire absence
of vocal music which made one feel that some-
thing was lacking.
	The day was a perfect one and there was not the
slightest inharmony in anything to annoy or weary
those who assembled to pay a fitting tribute to the
honored dead.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Children's Primary Fair of this stake, will,
it is anticipated,be held in this city,about the time
of the Quarterly Conference in September. The
little folks in each Primary Association should be
making preparations so as to make a good show-
ing. The place of holding it has not yet been
decided upon,but due notice will be given through
the papers.
	We regret exceedingly to learn that Helen
Hunt Jackaon the celebrated author H. H. is re-
ported to be dying in San Francisco where she
has been declining in health for the past four
months. Mrs. Jackson is one of the most intelli-
gent women of modern times, and one of the
most charming women in manner and con-
versation. With a superior education and a
world-wide celebrity as a writer she has no such
affectation as many distinguished people display
in their association with the the people. Her work
and travels among the Indians was one that told
the story of her genuine feeling for the oppressed
her keen sense of injustice with which they had
been treated.
	We hope to hear that Mrs Jackson is recover-
ing for she is one of those whose life is valuable
to the world at large.

[Column 2]

	WE trust the sisters in the country settlements
as well as those in the city and throughout the
several Stakes of Zion will take notice of the an-
nouncement in this issue made of Dr. E. R.
Shipp's class in midwifery and will use their in-
fluence in behalf of medical students from the
vicinity in which they reside, that those who need
from time to time the attention of nurses and
physicians may have those in their own neighbor-
hoods capable of officiating under any circum-
stances. Dr. Shipp has had considerable ex-
perience in teaching and has a pleasant manner
of imparting instruction, and of adapting her
language to the comprehension of her students
using short and simple words and phrases easily
understood, instead of those difficult terms which
require so much explanation afterwards. She is
sympathetic in her nature and enters into the feel-
ings, desires and ambitions ot the students.
	It is an excellent opportunity for obtaintng
knowledge that can be applied for the good of
humanity and it is a profession for which the
world will always have a place. Young women
who wish to obtain knowledge of the human
organism would do well to attend these lectures
even if they never made other use of the intelli-
gence except in the matter of caring for themselves
and their own offspring. Dr. Shipp has proved
herself a thoroughly competent teacher, and ought 
to have a wide patronage.
	THE circular of the Brigham Young Academy
at Provo, of the tenth academic year has been
received and glancing through it we find every-
thing is taught there that it is desirable for the
young people to learn. Arts and Sciences music 
and needlework are included. There is also a
Theological Department conducted with the ut-
most care and there is a grand opportunity for
religious training which is a proper balance to 
all other studies. Professor Karl G. Maeser is
the principal of the institution. He has had a long
and wide experience as a teacher and is pro-
foundly thoughtful as well as educationally pro-
ficient on all subjects mental, moral and spiritual.
	WE have also received the circular of the 
Brigham Young College at Logan of the
eighth collegiate year. The circular contains a
historical sketch of the founding and progress of
the college since its commencement, also its re-
ligious features, and Preparatory,Normal, and ad-
vanced Courses and Graduation. Terms Vacations
and names of students of 1884-1885 and of those
who received certificates etc. Concluding Remarks 
upon the present capacities and facilities of the col- 
lege. Both these institutions offer excellent oppor-
tunities for the young people of the Territory boys
and girls alike and are situated in towns where there
are ample accomodations for students and where
provisions of all kinds are reasonably cheap.
Board costing only three dollars per week. It is
a source of congratulation to a new territory like
Utah to have three such fine institutions of'
learning as the Deseret University in Salt Lake
City, Brigham Young Academy in Provo and the
Brigham Young College in Logan, where all the
highest branches of learning are taught by teach-
ers eminently qualifiied for the positions they
have been chosen to fill.


WHY PLURAL MARRAIGE IS FOR-
			BIDDEEN IN THE BOOK OF 
					MORMON. 
					--------------
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I desire to submit a few thoughts suggested up-
on reading the article entitled "Some facts plainly-
set forth," published in numer 4, vol 14, of your
valuable paper.
	To obtain exact chronological dates of events 
that transpired as recorded in the Book of Mor-
mon is, perhaps, impossible, but a very close ap-
proximate can be arrived at.


[Column 1]

	﻿It was while dwelling in the valley of Lemuel
that the sons of Nephi, and also Zoram, the
former servant of Laban, took each one a wife of
the daughters of Ishmael, whose family had ac-
companied Lehi and his family into the wilderness,
there were exactly five men and five women who
were married at this time. (See I. Nephi,
chap. 16, verse 7.) The two sons of Ishmael
brought their families with them, but it is to be
supposed that they were of youthful age as neither
of their sisters were married until this time. These,
with Jacob and Joseph, who were afterwards born
to Lehi, with Sariah, their mother, and the sisters,
of whom mention is made in II. Nephi, chap. 5,
verse 6, together with Ishmael's wife—for he had
died in the wilderness—constituted the entire colo-
ny that took passage on board the vessel that con-
veyed them to the land of America. But a divis-
ion in the colony took place some time afterwards,
for we read that Nephi and his family, Sam and
his family, Zoram and his family, Jacob and Joseph,
his younger brethren, and Nephi's sisters (how
many is not mentioned) seperated from the rest
and became the people of Nephi, and afterwards
bore that name.
	Now, these people did not marry at the early
age we do today, but should they have done so, at the
time that Jacob was speaking concerning the sin
of whoredom among his people, there could not
possibly have been more than three generations of
married people, for it was immediately after the
death of Nephi that Jacob commences his record,
and starts out by saying that fifty-five years had
passed away since Lehi left Jerusalem, and in the
second book records: "The words which Jacob,
the brother of Nephi, spake unto the people of
Nephi, after the death of Nephi," a portion of
which was a denunciation of the sin of whoredom
indulged in by the people, as well as a reference
to a former command, that no man among them
should "take more than one wife."
	My object, in reviewing the early history of this
people, is to show that there could not have been
a great disparity in the sexes at this time, hence
the consistency of the command as given by God
to Lehi, (see Book of Jacob, chap. 3, verse 34,)
is very apparent. But for the crime of which
they were guilty. Jacob says they excused them-
selves "because of the things which were written
concerning David and Solomon, his son." What
was the sin of David? The Jewish record says:
"In no one thing did he sin against me, save in
the matter of Uriah, the Hittite." And the Proph-
et Nathan, when rebuking him, told him how the
Lord had given him many wivess, even the wives
of his master Saul, and further says, "If that had
been too little I would moreover have given
unto thee such and such things." This, then, was
the only sin of David, and is it not presumable,
that because God did not immediately destroy
David, but put away his sin for the time being,
that the people of Nephi took advantage of this
leniency to justify themselves in their wicked acts?
What was Solomon's sin? In marrying strange
women—taking them outside of the authority of
God, and these women led away his heart, inso-
much that to please them he burnt incense and
sacrificed to their Gods, which was an abomina-
tion to the Lord. Previous to this the Lord had
told Solomon that he would bless him above all
men if he would walk in the ways and keep the
statutes and commandments as his father, David,
had done. It is recorded of him, in connection
with his taking these strange women, "And Solo-
mon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went
not fully after the Lord, as did David, his
father."
	Then, the sin of the Nephites, against which
Jacob spoke so forcibly, must have been either in
appropriating the wives of others, or in taking
wives outside of the marriage covenant, for it
would be impossible for a man to commit whore-
dom with wives God had given him, neither could

[Column 2]

the chastity of woman, about which Jacob spoke
as having been violated,be imperiled only outside
of that covenant.
	The law given to the Nephites confined a man
strictly to one wife, consequently no man of God,
no matter what authority he possessed, could have
given more than one wife to one man. Then, to
take more was a crime before God, and this was
the crime of which these men had been guilty, and
which Jacob denounced in such strong language.
It was this unrighteous conduct which broke the
hearts of these men's wives, and caused sorrow
and mourning to the fair daughters of the people.
How unlike the law that was given to Moses—to
protect plural wives in their rights of marriage;
also how unlike the action of Laban, which was
sanctioned by God, in giving his two daughters to
Jacob, and whose issue were mighty men, wield-
ing both kingly and priestly power.
	The Lord understood the purposes of His own
mind, when He gave the law limiting the men of
the Nephites to one wife, and He also understands
His purposes in commanding His people to-day to
take more than one wife, and as it was a sin
against God then to take more than one wife, we
would be equally culpable in rejecting the law
commanding plural marriage to-day. A late revela-
tion says, "By law are ye justified," and the re-
velation upon plural marriage says that the an-
cients were justified in taking more wives because
this was the law; and further, "And in nothing
did they sin, save in those things which they re-
ceived not of me." If I were writing for the bene-
fit of unbelievers, I would offer some other ex-
planations of this (seemingly ambiguous) passage
in the Book of Jacob, but suffice it to say that it
is made quite plain in the revelation on celestial
marriage, and it was a commandment given
specially to the people of Nephi for the accom-
plishment of God's own purposes, and related to
them exclusively, as did the building of an ark in
Noah's time, or the crossing of the Red Sea by
Israel especially related to them, and was for their
salvation in each instance. Unbelievers, fault-
finders and opponents of the truth, will take ad-
vantage of every technicality and will trip them-
selves upon the stumbling blocks that have ap-
parently been left by the Almighty for this very
purpose. But a true Latter-day Saint will not
cavil upon these points, for they know that there is
a most beautiful harmony and consistency in every
command given by God, and that they are exactly
adapted to the circumstances and condition of the
people, and the evil one knows this full well, too,
hence his increasing attempts to thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and especially is this mani
fest in regard to plural or celestial marriage to-day
	Our enemies, who know nothing of the spirit
or genius of our religion will pick out and quote
such savings as that contained in the Book of
Jacob, that have no more reference to this dispen-
sation, or the law of the Lord as pertaining there-
to, than the law of Moses as given to ancient
Israel, would be aplicable to our condition to-day.
For the Lord (as intimated by Jacob He would)
has commanded His people in this last dispensa-
tion to take more than one wife to raise up seed
unto himself, and all the sophistical reasoning upon
the subject, nor a denial by any number of per-
sons, cannot alter the fact, for God's word "will
not return unto Him void, but will accomplish that
whereunto it has been given."

		J. E. TAYLOR.
	August 3rd, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. .S. AND Y. L. MEETING. 
	﻿The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 11th, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W.
Wilcox. Singing.  As the minutes of the last
meeting were not brought, minutes of the 5th,
Ward P. A. were read, and remarks were made
by the President on the condition of the people at,
the present time, and the outlopk, etc. 
Brief remarks were made by Sisters H.-M.
Whitney, M. A. Hyde, President of Relief Society 
Sanpete Stake, L. W. Kimball, M. W. Wilcox,B.
W. Smith, Hicks and Sinah Bishop; Sister Dyer
also spoke in tongues, and Sister Bishop gave the
interpretation. Sisters E. Paul and Dr. E. S.
Barney made instructive remarks, and a lady in 
the congregation spoke a few words, after which
President Horne reviewed what had been said,
and adjourned the meeting. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Sister Elizabeth Stevenson.

 Meeting at the same hour and place, on July
25th, Mrs, M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, 
prayer was offered by Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read by Miss Sarah
McGregor. Minutes of the P. A. from the 21st,
11th, 19th and 17th Wards were read, after which
Prest. Horne made some timely remarks, and was
followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells,who addressed most
of her remarks to the young.
	Mrs. Clara A. Cannon bore a good testimony,
and alluded to the imprisonment of her husband,
and that she was denied the privilege of visiting
him in prison, because she was a plural wife.
	Sister Julia Howe bore a good testimony. A
verse was then sung by the congregation, and
Sister Jane Fowler made a few remarks, and sang
a verse of a hymn.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke upon the things
transpiring at the present time, and to the young
in regard to purity of character.
	Sisters Dyer, Kettle, Wheeler, and others,
whose names were not known, made a few re-
marks.
	Sister Mary Smalie spoke very impressively of
her feelings at the present crisis, and referred to
those who were our enemies here, and had made
their money off the Mormons; thought it very
wrong to deal with them at all. She also said
she had seen three rainbows in the western sky
on Friday morning, about five o’clock; they were
very beautiful, and thought it a good omen.
	A sister, name not known, and Sisters Ann
Richards and Annie Snow, and one or two others,
bore faithful testimonies, and Prest Horne made a
few closing remarks and adjourned the meeting
for two weeks. Closed with singing. Prayer
by Sister H. M. Whitney.
		REORGANIZATION Y. L. M. I. A.
	A special meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. held in the
Eighth Ward meeting house July 9th 1885 for re-
organizing.Present by invitation Bishop E.F. Sheets
and Counselors McMurrinand Brockbank,arid Sis-
ters M. Dougal,Nellie Colebrook, E. S. Taylor and
our former president M. S. Leaver. The officers ap-
pointed are as follows: Mrs. Mary Pratt Young,
Prest., Mrs. Jeanett McMurrin and Miss S. A.
Hawkins, Counselors, Miss Eva Morten-
son Secretary, Miss Lizzie Chamberlain
Assistant Secretary, Miss Kate  How-
ard Treasurer. After a short programme, 
remarks were made by the invited guests. A vote
of thanks was then tendered Mrs. S. M. Leaver,
for the efficient manner in which she had held her
office and performed her duty.
		EVA MORTENSON, Secretary. -


NOTICE.
				 ---------
	As the time is near for drawing up reports for
the semi-annual conference, a few words of en-
couragment and instruction may be of benefit.
The great difficulties encountered by secretaries
keeping their books in a well balanced state is
realized, still, through perseverance and diligence,


it can be done, and much to our credit.  The branch
Secretary will better know how to settle her own
difficulties than the stake secretary will for her, and
they are advised to be very particular that their
reports accurately balance, even if forced, as it
must be brought to that condition at last, and the
evil will be less the earlier corrected.
	We wish to mention our feelings of satisfaction
and encouragement in the improvement observ-
able in the reports.  No secretary will ever re-
gret the time spent in learning to be a first class
book keeper.
	We have taken upon ourselves the trouble and
expense of sending to each stake president, at
least a short supply of new blanks, hoping to fa-
cilitate matters somewhat.  Many have not remit-
ted, and are requested to do so at earliest conveni-
ence, as more blanks are now needed.  We have
no central fund, and work on expectations of re-
turns.  Those desiring blanks after this will please
send to Dr. R. B. Pratt, over. Godbe and Pitts',
drug store; office hours from 1 to 6 p.m.
	We earnestly solicit every stake to be prompt
in sending in its report- at latest by the 20th of
September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's school in
midwifery will begin Oct. 1st, 1885, at her office,
No. 18, Main St. with greatly improved facilities
for education in this important branch.
	The already invaluable opportunities of  this
school are greatly enhanced by the late addition
of three complete sets of new charts, exemplify-
ing most accurately the subjects treated upon.
	The practical advantages are also increased by
the managers of the Deseret Hospital kindly con-
senting to Dr. E. R. Shipp's class making a
weekly visit to that institution, there receiving
clinical, or bedside instruction on the nursing, care
and treatment of the sick and injured.
	In addition several prominent physicians of
Salt Lake have signified their willingness to give
a number of lectures upon obstetrics and kindred
subjects.
	The members of this class will meet one even-
ing in every week to read medical periodicals, and
discuss chosen subjects, that they may thus be
kept posted on the medical literature of the day.
One main object kept in view is to utilize every
moment of time, in order to gain all the
knowledge possible in the time devoted to this
study. 
	The railroad officials have shown their benevo-
lence in granting students half fare to those ladies
attending this class.
	A full course of study consists of three terms of
twelve weeks each- the time being lengthened
from ten to twelve weeks, in order to give time
for the increased opportunities.  Two lessons will
be given every day with the addition of the oppor-
tunities above enumerated.
	Terms:  Twenty dollars for twelve weeks.
Books, ranging from twelve  to nineteen dollars,
according to the quality desired.  Those wishing
to join this class should communicate with Dr.
Shipp at their earliest convenience, it being neces-
sary to send east for books.


ANNIVERSARY GATHERING
	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the Nineteenth Ward was held in the meeting
house on Tuesday, July 21st, at six o'clock. Three
tables were spread in the adjoining hall, and over
one hundred ladies sate down to a sumptuous re-
past.  Choicest fruits and beautiful flowers graced
the tables, and young girls in dainty muslin caps
and white dresses, fluttered about waiting upon
the tables, looking very charming, indeed. Mrs.
Mary Irvine, President of the Association, and
her Counselors, Miss Agnes Underwood and Miss
Bessie Deane, were seated at the head of one of
the tables.
	At half past seven p.m. meeting commenced in
the large hall, Mrs. Mary Irvine presiding. Opened
by singing, "Gladly Meeting."  Prayer by Elder
John Irvine.  Singing, "Did you think to pray."
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read and
approved; then an excellent opening address by
Coun. Agnes Underwood.
OPENING ADDRESS.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
	We have met here this evening, as you all know,
to celebrate the anniversary of our Young Ladies'
Association, an association which we hope to
make one of the best of its kind.
	And we feel, though we are only two years old,
our influence bas been felt, and that for good.
True, our progress may have been slow, but I
think the careful observer must admit that it has
been equally sure.  Our hope and aim is to here
form the characters of some of the noblest women
that have ever graced this fair earth, that future
generations may not only thank us for our weak
endeavors, but feel to bless him who was instru-
mental in the hands of God in organizing these
Associations.  All honor, then, to our lamented
Prophet, Brigham Young.  We can truly say,
"Though thou art absent thou art not forgot-
en."
	We, as Latter-day Saints, believe in woman’s
rights, and we mean to maintain them.  We claim
it is our right and our duty to become conversant
with the topics of the day, that we may be able to
cope with the oppression that may be brought up-
on us by our enemies—striving to become intelli-
gent and bright, and never neglecting home duties
—where the heart of every true woman should be.
We have material here for a noble structure, and
if property cared for will be one of which we can
be honestly proud.
	And in this Association we will, by the help of
our Heavenly Father, strive to learn and teach
those things that will enable us to associate with
the good and noble of this earth, and fit us to
dwell with the angels and the Gods; and we will
strive so to spend our time here, that we shall
be missed when we pass away, and those who
have been associated with us will be the better for
our influence. 

“May each rosy morn, dressed in mantles of peace,
Shed health o’er our dwellings and our blessings increase."
	A Recitation by Miss Emily Deane, "Jennie
McNeal;"  Organ Solo, Miss Vilate Nebeker;
Essay on Character, Miss Jane Albrand, which
contained some very excellent ideas; Song, Miss
Bessie Deane, “Forgive and Forget;” Lecture on
the Mind, Miss Ella Nebeker; one of the best
productions on the subject that we have ever
heard given, and would bear repeating in every
Association in the city.
	Brief addresses, upon subjects suitable to the
occasion, the elevation, improvement and educa-
tion of the youth of Zion, were then made by Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougal, Nellie Colebrook and E. S.
Taylor, after which  the “Song of the Seasons”
was rendered, and following that, remarks were
made by Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells;
then closing remarks by the President, who mani-
fested a deep and heartfelt interest in the ad-
vancement and progress of the young girls over
whom she presides.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Sowing." Bene-
diction by Elder Henry Bywater.


WHAT OF SCIENCE?
	Would you suppose for a moment that per-
sons well educated, those who had arrived at
great attainments in science, could doubt the
existence of a God, an  alwise Ruler or Crea-
tor of this vast universe, with all its varieties,
which charm the eye and gladden the soul?
	I do not believe that any sane person would
become an infidel because of his education, un-
less he obtained it just to make a show and ac-
complish some special object. Such a charac-
ter would serve the God of this world and look
no higher, accordingly could not enjoy the in-
spiration which a higher aim would bring to
him.	
	But one who studies to benefit himself will
benefit others, and also appreciate every facul-
ty of mind and body which has been given
him, as also the fountain of light and intelli-
gence, from which knowledge is obtained and
through which those faculties are developed.
Could such a one doubt the existence of a
Creator? No!no! He would increase in love
and admiration as he advanced in science.
Knowing everything is governed by laws,
there must have been a great first cause or de-
signer, whose purposes are beyond our compre-
hension, yet not beyond the reach of obtaining
that intelligence if we live aright and persevere,
honestly to ourselves and our aspirations, ever
upward and onward. Then we gain little by
little, for such are our capacities.
	Only a short time ago a young lady
read to me a lecture by a reverend
gentleman, delivered in Brooklyn. He quoted
Scripture fluently, and correctly,too; but what
did he do with it? I listened with disgust
while he took passages given in the Old Testa-
ment by the prophets to govern society at that
time, and again in the days of Jesus and His
disciples, which every lover of true principle
venerates, and made them clash in the most
ridiculous manner. "Why," said the lady,
“does not he quote it correctly?'  “Well,” I
replied,‘I will answer you by asking a ques-
tion. The furniture in this room is all useful,
and ornamental, too. If I should take this
lamp and dash it at the mirror, and a chair at
the sewing machine and take the dishes and
dash them at everything else in the room, what
would be the result?” "Confusion,” she re-
plied. "Yes, and destruction, too,” said I”
“That lecture,” said I, “has the same effect on
the human mind. It may answer for fun and
pastime for those who are given up to frivoli-
ty, but it would lead to lunacy. It will con-
fuse, you will admit; you would expect him to
give you a more beautiful picture, but he
leaves you without anything to love or admire
in our Heavenly Father’s words; and yet, the
young and thoughtless will listen and drink
into such absurdities, and grow reckless. May
put young people become more sound in mind
and pure in principles, is my prayer.
	This scientific preacher has so perverted the
Bible that I would never wish to read it, if I
had not previously read if for myself, I am
thankful, however, that I have a knowledge of
its contents, and I know that this popular
scientific lecturer quotes correctly. But why
did he study it so thoroughly? Was it only
to pervert its sacred pages? for sacred it surely
is to those who have learned the two spirits—
the good and the evil. To those who know
the Lord hears and answers prayer as He did
in the days in which the Bible was written; to
those wno have been healed by the prayer of
faith, and have been blessed, even as Job was,
and suffered, also, almost as Job suffered, know-
ing not believing only, that this has been done
in wisdom to prove the faithful Saint, for such
may one well be called who lives in accord-
ance with the law of Christ. Such an one
learns for a surety that He is the same yester-
day, to-day and forever.  Those who lived be-
fore Christ learned the same lesson by obey-
ing the laws of God given to them, and thus
understood the struggle between good and evil;
accordingly they had their experience recorded
for the benefit of their children, and others 
who should come after.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Since this noted preacher has learned so
much of the spirit of the world, and how to
please the world, by recklessly destroying and
misconstruing that which was given us for
good, to keep our feet in the straight and
narrow path, he should learn as much of the
opposite spirit, and I would promise him if he
would be as diligent in the pursuit as he has
been in the other, he would be a wiser and a
better man. He might even become as great
as St. Paul was, if his desires are to serve God
in all that he does, as St. Paul did.
	My sincere prayer is that he may become
acquainted with that good spirit which the
Savior said belonged to little children. Had
he died when a child he would have inherited
a glory which he will lose if he does not re-
form and seek after the wisdom and intelli-
gence he so much needs. After rooting out
iniquity, he needs wisdom and intelligence to
give all things their proper value, and also
their proper place. When he can do this he
will find that he has not lived in vain; he will
then be so happy he will wish to live forever,
and the righteous have this promise, while the
wicked must taste the second death, because
they choose evil, though they were made good,
and choose to follow the workers of darkness,
in preference to those of light and greater in-
telligence. It may be that this lecturer will
tire in this pursuit and want something better.
	Too many of our young people have swal-
lowed this rubbish because the gilded bait was
science. We are all lovers of science, but
while we admire the principles which control,
and the laws which govern the universe, shall
we ignore the Author of all this stupendous
machinery, which moves in such perfect har-
mony? No! no! Those who know Him most
should admire and love Him best.
	The Bible has always been a source of
pleasure and satisfaction to me, because written
for our guidance when the opposite spirit ap-
pears, for we must inevitably meet the opposite
while in our sojourn here, and it strengthens
us if we know we are right. In the common
affairs of life we cannot always tell a servant
to do the same thing at  another time, but we act ac-
cording to circumstances, and our Heavenly
Father does the same, and all for the good of
His erring children.
	The Lord always gives light and intelligence
to a people whose hearts are right, and minds
pure before Him. And now, since there is a
people upon the earth who are determined to
serve Him to the best of their abilities, behold,
how much light has been given to the human
family in the last fifty years. Shall we not
acknowledge His hand in all this, or shall we
say, my own skill did it?
	If we cannot acknowledge the hand of an
alwise Parent in the discoveries of science to-
day, I fear that darkness will overwhelm us
again; and if it does it will be because of our
stupidity in not acknowledging the hand of
God in all things.
	A people who will not do this - what need
they expect, and in fact what do they deserve,
if they possess so much vanity that they take
all the glory to themselves? And again, the
Lord has promised that "in the last days He
would pour out His Spirit upon all flesh," etc.
I would advise those who wish to treat the
subject indifferently, to read the thirteenth
chapter of St. Matthew, beginning at the
thirty-eighth verse, and reflect.
	M. E. K.
	July 15, 1885.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	BEAR	LAKE	STAKE.
	Minutes of the Fourteenth Semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Society, held in St
Charles, July 11th, 1885, Prest. J.P. Lindsay
presiding. After the exercises of singing and
prayer, minutes of the previous conference
were read and accepted. 
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay made a few opening
remarks, in which she said, she regretted that
she had not visited the different societies this
summer; it was the first time she had failed
since they were organized.
	The different branches of Relief Society
were reported as follows: St. Charles, Prest.
Lizzie W. Rich; Fish Haven; Francis Howell;
Garden City, Ann Gook. Lake Town, Mrs. C.
Walstrom; Bloomington, Prest. Greenhalgh;
Paris 1st Ward, Coun. Margaret Sutton; 2nd
Ward, Ruth Sparks; Liberty, Jane Tanner;
Cottonwood, Sister Oakey. Randolph; Wood-
ruff, Bennington, Montpelier, Preston, George-
town and Soda Springs, not reported. The
statistical and financial report was then read
by the secretary.
	Sister Sarah I. Holmes made very interest
ing remarks, and said there was a difference
between exaltation and salvation. If we are
exalted we must obey a celestial law. Did not
feel satisfied with a salvation only; was desir-
ous to perform all the duties and responsibili-
ties devolving upon her, and to gain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God.
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire spoke of the great
responsibilities resting upon the mothers and
daughters in regard to examples,being set be-
fore the little ones around them.
	Sister Toomer spoke of some of the trials
she had passed through; thought we should
live so as to enjoy a portion of the spirit of
God, to enable us to give good counsel to our
sons and daughters.
	Prest. Lindsay made closing remarks—was
grateful for the good instruction which had
been given. Stated the cause of her Counselor,
Sister Collings, not being present, as she was
working in the Temple, and stated that the
Primary would meet in the afternoon. Singing.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction
by Elder Sutton.
	2 p.m.—adjourned session. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop J. A. Hunt. Sacrament adminis-
tered, during which, the hymn, "O God, the
Eternal Father," was sung; after which Coun.
L. M. Hart made a brief address, in which she
said, “We are ignored by the world and our,
rights are encroached upon more and more
every day, but if we are faithful all will be
well with us. There are some who think they
could do better if they had not been wronged,
or if some one else were in office; but we should
not let such considerations stand in the way of
our keeping the commands of God. Many of
you who are before me to-day have been
gathered from the four quarters of the earth,
and all for a similar purpose. The finger of
scorn is pointed at us, and many are cast into
prison for their religion."
	Sister Amy Cook compared our condition
now with that in the early rise of the Church,
and said, “Although their trials were great
they did not feel to falter or turn back again
to their homes in the old world. We are to
be tried as gold seven times in a furnace.”
Bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Lindsay said she often thought if
this had not been the Church and kingdom of
God she never could have had the strength to
hold her position in the Church, or stand before
so many people. If we put our time to good
use we can do more than we think we can. We
have got to overcome our selfishness. We
cannot live in the law of celestial marriage,
and live in peace; unless we have the Spirit of
God.” She felt it to be a sacred principle.
	'The time has come that we must go forward
or backward; we cannot stand still. I do not
know what we would be good for if we were
never tried. We should try to be-self-sustain-
ing, for the time will come when we will have
to be. We should keep our means among our
people; we should not sustain those who are tak-
ing from us all our rights and liberties; we must
live by faith, and let our works correspond.
We were told that when the Temple was com-
pleted our mission would be to attend to the
poor and the sick; but besides this, we should
try and assist in building the Stake Taber-
nacle.” Wished to remind the sisters about
saving grain; did not wish to slacken in this
labor. Believed the predictions that had been
given about the famine, “and in as much as
the prospects are good for an aoundant har-
vest, let us do all we can toward saving grain.
God will let our enemies go as far as He sees
fit in His wisdom. We must examine our-
selves and see if we are Saints in very deed; it
is through sacrifice and affliction that we are
brought to be worthy of the blessings of hea-
ven.
	The stake stationery account was read by
the secretary, when it was moved and second-
ed that each settlement donate the amount al-
lotted to them each year, and send it to the
Corresponding Secretary, Julia Budge.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt presented the presiding
officers of the stake and the different branches
of the Relief Society, which were sustained by
those present. The Bishop stated that be had
highly edified in listening to the instruc-
tions that had been given. We should be dili-
gent in our prayers, in our donations, in look-
ing after the poor, the sick and endeavoring to
comfort those in trouble. Felt that we had had
a good time in our conference. 
	Bishop Wm. West felt to endorse what had
been said; had long been convinced that the
young ladies could have a great influence with
the young gentlemen. "There is nothing to
look forward to with more pleasure than the
improvement of our sons and daughters.”
Bore a testimony to the good time we had had
in conference.
	Conference adjourned until the second
Saturday and Sunday in January. Choir sang
an anthem—“The Lord Reigneth.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Wm. M. Allred.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
		JULIA BUDGE, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:

   If I am not intruding too much I would like
to add my testimony to that of Lizzie B's
"Thoughts," in the EXPONENT of May 1st.
If any of my young sisters are about to marry
a Gentile, and have not read her "Thoughts"
--either in Zion or elsewhere--I entreat them
in all earnestness to get the article and study
it, and turn back before it is too late. If they
do not they will have cause to repent in sack
cloth and ashes.
   My dear young Sisters, these are not
sketches of the imagination, but the living
truth, and I would that you could all be saved
from the heart-aches and terrible agonies that
none on earth know except those who have
trod the same path of disobedience.
   Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
her people, and those who have fallen by the
wayside, that their eyes may be opened, so
that they may rise up with renewed strength
and determination to have their lamps trimmed
and burning, before the bridegroom comes and
shuts the door and to them says, "Depart, I
know ye not,"
				I am Yours truly,
							ANN HARDY.
	Council Bluffs, Iowa.


The first women's hospital in China has
been opened at Shanghai. It is called the
Margaret Wilson Memorial Hospital.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


TELL YOUR MOTHER.

It is only when girls are known to conceal
their doings from their mother that they become
targets for the shafts of scandal. Innocent
faults are always condoned by kind mothers,
who know that they were prone to mistakes
when they were young, and a girl will not do
anything very culpable if she is sure to keep
no secrets from her mother. Many a woman
now looks back upon her past life and sees
that had she been compelled to tell her mother
of all that occurred to her she would ahve es-
caped sin and sorrow. It is said that young
girls talk too much about themselves, but it is
far better to do that than to tell too little, and
to harbor secrets which may lead to deplorable
consequences. It is the little rift in the lute
that spoils the music, and it is these little de-
fects of character that lead to some of the 
greatest evils of life.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Mohammedan university 900 years older
than Oxford is still flourishing at Cairo as in
the days of Arabian conquests. It contains
but one room, the floor is paved, and the roof
is supported by 400 columns. 
	The Woman's Congress is to be held in Des
Moines, October 6, 7, and 8, next. The
annual meeting of the American Woman Suf-
frage Association will follow the next week at
Minneapolis. This proximity of time will
give opportunity to attend both meetings.

	A plan has been devised and it
is pronounced practicable, for connect-
ing Paris and London by pneumatic tubes.
through which telegrabms and parcels up to
eleven pounds in weight may be transmitted.
The time for transmission is guaranteed not
to exceed one hour.	

	Juliano de Souza, the chief of the semi-
royal State of Wydah, who possesses a fully
equipped battalion of women warriors, is a tall
broad-chested man, with a brownish complex-
ion and striking face. Souza's son was edu-
cated in an English boarding-school, and was
married by a French priest, although the
king is a fetich-worshipper. His six thousand
Amazons are nominally his wives, and they
form a body-guard which is said to be superior
to the regular soldiers in courage, discipline,
and loyalty.—Harper's.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of our dear friend and sister, Lucinda Busenbark
Monroe, wife or Major M. Monroe. She passed into her
eternal rest on the 18th day of June, at twenty mintues to
three o'clock a.m., 1885, at her daughter's residence in
Providence, Cache Co. Sister Lucinda was born on the
29th day of April, 1838. at - Niagra Co., N. Y.
	She was First Counselor in our Relief Society, and
Second Counselor in our Primary. She was a faithful wife
and mother, and a true Latter-day Saint. She was loved
and respected by all who knew her. She has been a long
sufferer, and her faith and endurance were remarkable.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, The alwise Father has seen fit to remove our
dear sister, Lucinda Busenbark Monroe, from this sphere
of action to a more exalted one above, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in the
Clifton Ward, do deeply mourn her loss, and that we
cherish her memory, and emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a good wife, mother and
sister.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the


WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they be placed upon our
Relief Society record.
		JANE M. HOWELL,
		ELIZABETH W. HOWELL, 
		SARAH E. BINGHAM, 
		KITTIE E. DIXON,
		SARAH E. HOWELL. 
			D. E. DUDLEY, Rec. Sec.


OBITUARIES. 

	It is our painful duty to record the deaths of Claymore,
who departed this life July 3rd, 1885, also Parley, who
breathed his last July 5th, 1885, sons of John. F. and
Elizabeth Snedaker.
	They were faithful members of our society, always ready
to perform every duty. They were beloved by all their as-
sociates and friends, who grieve their loss, but not without
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Dear children, we miss you from our midst, but you
have left an influence that will be felt for good by those
whom you have left. Your knowledge far exceeded your
years, and you have gone to perform a work behind the
vail.
	Our deepest sympathy is extended to Brother Snedaker
and family, and we pray the Lord will comfort their heart
in their great distress.
				FRANCES HANSON, President. 
				H. V. CARLISLE, Secretary.
Mill Creek Ward, 3rd District Primary Association.

	It is the painful duty of the Eighth Ward Relief Society
to record the death of another sister, who has labored with
us as a teacher many years- Sister Mary Golightly. Her
death was very unexpected. She leaves a son and daugh-
ter to mourn her loss. She was a kind and indulgent
mother. By her death the children are orphans, the
father having died many years ago.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with the bereaved ones,
praying God to protect their youthful steps in the paths of
virtue and peace. May they prove faithful to the principles
of the Gospel, which she faithfully taught them. 
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary Go-
lightly, who departed this life August 2nd, 1885. 
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove
by death our beloved sister, we, the sisters of the Eighth
Ward Relief Society
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher, that we
deeply sympathize with the bereaved family in the loss of
an affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
minutes, a copy be presented to the bereaved family, also
to the EXPONENT for publication. 
			ESTHER B. FLETCHER, Prest.
			CATHERINE PALMER,
			JANE COWAN, Counselors.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As members of the Burrville Relief Society, it is our
painful duty to inform you of the death of our beloved
sister and esteemed fellow laborer, Sarah Jane Burr Clow-
ard, who departed this life on the 14th of July, 1885. De-
ceased was born on the 18th of July, 1855, in Salt Lake
City, Utah; was the daughter of Charles C. Burr, and
Sarah Sloat Burr, and wife of George A. Cloward.
	Born and reared in the Church, she was faithful and true
as daughter, wife, mother, and as a Latter-day Saint. She
was the mother of six children, three of whom are liv-
ing.
	The following Preamble and Resolutions were unanimous-
ly odopted by our Society. 
	Whereas, our beloved sister, Second Counselor, Sarah
Jane Burr Cloward, in consequence of the falling in of the
roof of a house at Fish Lake, on Tuesday, June 30th, met
with injuries which resulted in her death on the 14th of
July, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we deeply mourn her loss as a wise
counselor, an affectionate sister and a faithful, devoted and
consistent co-laborer with us in Zion's cause; but while we
mourn her loss we, by our faith and confidence in God,
have the assurance that our loss is her gain, and that by
virtue of her course as a daughter of Zion, she will rise in
the morning of the first resurrection to enjoy the blessings,
promises, powers and glory of those who, having kept the
faith, have endured to the end. 
	Resolved, That a copy of this Preamble and these Reso-


lutions be forwarded to Sister Cloward's parents, and to
her husband, and that they be forwarded to the EXPONENT
for publication.	Faithfully yours,
				SARAH BURR, President
				ANNA ANDERSEN, 1st Counselor,
				EVA STARR, Secretary.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
		Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
				MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address,  DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
