VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1885.	NO. 8.


"SAY TO THE RIGHTEOUS, ALL IS
WELL."

["Say ye to the righteous it shall be well with them, for
they shall reap the fruits of their doings."—ISAIAH.]

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
Eternal justice doth not sleep,
Say to the hosts of Israel—
"The Holy One" His word will keep.

What if opperssion's waves run high?
What if the devil is not bound? 
Shall you or I "The Faith's deny,
And traitors unto heaven be found?

Lo! he is great, whate'er his state,
Who clings to truth though trampled down,
Despite the ban of mortal man—
An honest soul is Nature's crown.

And what is man, and who is he,
Who would our very thoughts control?
Who laughs to scorn the Deity?
And fain would crush th' immortal soul?

"Aha! aha!" these scorners boast,
"God tarries in His hiding place."
They challenge thus the Lord of Hosts.
And fling the guantlet in His face.

Fools! fools! Indeed, ye cannot read
Their thoughts who trust in heaven for aid,
And thus ye ridicule their need,
And hope to see the just dismayed.

Stand by the truth, ye Saints oppressed, 
Ye "outcasts" for the Gospel's sake;
Gird up your loins, endure the test,
Nor for one moment fear or quake.

Bonds and imprisonment and death—
The limit this of Satan's spleen.
And what is life? a passing breath,
The portal of a brighter scene.

Through tribulation's stormy seas
The noblest spirits enter heaven;
The martyr'd ones—to these, to these
Shall starriest crowns and thrones be given.

Lord!  help us, whatsoe'er we do,
"To run the race" unmoved by fear,
To keep the promised prize in view,
To sense, to see, "the goal" is near.

Our children, may they proudly claim—
If nothing else they own on earth—
A spotless name, devoid of shame,
A noble heritage of worth.

'Tis certain that on history's page
Integrity to truth shall shine,
And doubtless 'tis, man's puny rage
Shall praise Omnipotence divine.

God wills to prove His own elect,
To cleanse "the wheat" from ev'ry tare;
"The little flock" He'll still protect,
Who cast upon Him all their care.

Though earth and hell their powers ally—
Yea, though they seemingly prevail
Against the Saints of God Most High—
Jehovah's purpose will not fail.

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
The darkest hour precedes the day;
Say to the hosts of Israel:
"The Kingdom" shall be yours for aye.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City.


PSALM.

	Thou who didst command Abraham to leave his native
land, and to separate himself from his father's house, Thou
art my God.


﻿Thou who didst so love the world as to give Thine Only
Begotten to suffer and die, to open the way that all who
yielded obedience to the Gospel He established might at-
tain to life eternal, Thou art my trust.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thine angel and restored the
Gospel in the fulness of its powers and ordinances, with
Apostles, Prophets, Pastors and Evangelists, as at the
beginning; and hast again committed the keys which Jesus
conferred on Peter, unto Thy servants, Thou art the God
whom I worship.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thy servants clothed with
authority to gather the honest of heart to the land which
Thou hast appointed for the gathering of the last days, and
the establishing of Thy Kingdom, Thou wilt accomplish
Thy purposes.
	In Thine own wisdom, and with outstretched hand,
Thou hast brought thy people to these mountain vales;
and here Thou hast inspired the hearts and nerved the
hands of thy sons and daughters, and through thy bles-
sing on their labors the sterile and forbidding desert is
yielding in its strength, and the barren wilderness is blosso-
ming as the rose
	Driven from the land that gave us birth, to the western
wilds, for an asylum of peace and religious liberty, which
for a season we enjoyed unmolested; "the accusers of the
brethren," like blood-thirsty hounds, scented our track
o'er the pathless desert, and sought out our far-off retreat.
	With wanton eyes and greedy hearts they lusted for the
possession of the hard-earned fruits of our untiring in-
dustry, and with measures concocted in the pest-house of
deceit, supported by falsehood, they have sought to sup-
plant us.
	All this, O Lord, Thou hast suffered, that the wicked
may fill their cup, and that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.
We know that persecution is a portion of the legacy which
the Messiah left to those who would follow Him.
	Therefore we will acknowledge thy hand, and without
fear or faltering, firmly maintain our integrity.
	Though the rod of oppression is laid heavily upon us,
and every avenue for escape should seem closed against
us, with no hand but Thine to deliver, Thou, O God, wilt
in Thine own time and way bring deliverance.
	Though the dark billows of persecuton swell high o'er
us, and threaten to swallow us up, we know assuredly that
when they shall have accomplished thy purpose, Thou
wilt say to the proud, upheaving waves, "Thus far shalt
thou go, and no farther."
	Though the wicked rise up in wrath against thine an-
nointed, and in bold defiance threaten to destroy thy
Priesthood from the earth as in a former period, Thou,
Lord, wilt provide a shield, and although it should be, as
it were in the last extremity, Thou hast established it upon
the earth for the last time, and it will never be removed.
	"Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts
with righteousness."
		E. R. S. S.
	Logan, August, 1885.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While looking at the scenes portrayed on
the panorama the other evening, I could not
help contrasting the different circumstances
and surroundings of the Latter-day Saints
to-day compared with those of the earlier days
of the Church. The paintings seemed so real,
so life-like, that it seemed to me that I was
passing through those scenes and could un-
derstand the feelings they had while passing
through those dreadful days. They must have
been men and women possessed of heroic cour-
age and powers of endurance, with mighty
faith in God; yes, more than that, they must
have known for a certainty that God lived,
that this was His Church, and that those who
keep the faith and endure to the end will en-
joy eternal blessings, or else they never could
have endured so patiently the hardships and
awful sufferings that they experienced, the


contempt and scorn of associates whom they
loved, the hatred and malice of the wicked
who thirsted for their blood; the bitter perse-
cutions and insults to which they were sub-
jected were trials so severe that they must have
lived very close to the Lord, called upon Him
in the depths of humility, and He heard their
pleadings. He knew their integrity and He
sustained and strengthened them, and enabled
many of them to come to these peaceful val-
leys, where they have not been tried in the
same way. I felt that evening, and do now
say, God bless every one who remained true
through those trials, and be merciful to the
weak who fell by the way. I wondered what
I would have done, how I would have acted,
had I been living then. Would I have kept
the faith and been true? I said in my heart,
O God give me strength and courage to do
whatever I am called to pass through, that I
may be worthy to be numbered with those
noble men and women who laid the founda-
tion of this work. I feel very thankful that
the Lord brought my parents here, and that I
had the privilege of being born in Zion, and
of being taught the principles of the Gospel in
my youth. I feel thankful that I believed
them and endeavored to practice them while
I was young, for by so doing I have been
greatly blessed, and have gained a knowledge
that I know they are true. I know that God
hears and answers prayers. I know there is
no happiness, no pleasure or satisfaction in
doing wrong, but there is true happiness in
doing right. There is a spirit of peace and
contentment in the heart of those who live
pure and virtuous lives that cannot be ob-
tained any other way.
		MATTIE.
	Nephi.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 5th we had the first rain of the season,
accompanied by thunder and lightning. It
cleared off fair in the afternoon, when some of
father's wagons were started out, going three
miles as far as his stacks. President Young
had sent his camp three or four miles ahead.
That evening another meeting was held at
Sister Sarah Ann's room, for those of the two
families that were not there the evening before.
	Conference was held, on the 6th, at the
stand, it being a warm pleasant day. 
	Wednesday.—Horace mentions his father's
packing their provisions, and says: "We made
the last packing arrangements to-day."
	On the morning of the 8th the rest of the
wagons moved out. Horace says: "Before
starting, Father Lott blessed Orson and my-
self, and gave us many good promises of health
and safety—that we should return to our
friends again, etc., etc. Started with my
wagon at 11 a. m., myself and Orson, and went
three miles, where the rest of the boys were
camped. Brother and Sister Kimball went
with us. Porter came up on horseback and
informed us that P. P. Pratt had just arrived
from England, and that John Taylor and Or-
son Hyde were soon expected." Father and
mother invited Horace to return in the car-
riage with them, and his father—Bishop


[Column 1]

Whitney—to spend the night, which he ac-
cepted, "leaving the wagon in charge of Orson
and little John." It was arranged for Horace
to drive and care for the horses, and Orson
was to attend to cooking and washing, etc.
	The morning of the 9th witnessed the final
departure of the Pioneers on their way to the
mountains. They were four days traveling
to the "Platte" river, to where I will follow
them, after which the journal closes at Winter
Quarters. Horace wrote:	*	*	* "Fair
weather for traveling. Brother Kimball,
Father, Brigham, and Dr. Richards started this
morning, and went in Brother Kimball's car-
raige. Orson drove my team, and I rode
Brother Brigham's house as far as his camp,
where we arrived about noon, seven miles
from home. Went on three miles further and
camped by the side of a beautiful spring,
having made ten miles to-day. Orson on
guard.
	"Saturday the 10th.—Fair day as usual.
Father did not at first intend going on with
us, but finally concluded to go to the 'Horn'
by Brigham and Heber's request. Travelled
about 15 miles to-day and encamped on the
prairie near a ravine, where we could get
water, about six miles from the 'Elk Horn.'
	"Sunday the 11th.—Fair day. Traveled
on and arrived at the 'Horn' about 2 p. m.,
and crossed the river on a raft drawn on the
opposite side by cattle, with the assistance of
ropes on either side. Brother Bullock, Dr.
Richard's clerk, took down the number of
wagons as they crossed, which amounted to
seventy-two. Went about a mile after cross-
ing down the stream and encamped—the
wagons formed in a line, our horses being
hitched to stakes, and fed on cottonwood
trees, besides their allowance of corn. Brother
Kimball told the brethren this morning he
hoped that they would not go hunting or fish-
ing, for if they did so, they should not be pros-
pered, as this was a day set apart for the
service of the Lord, not for trivial amuse-
ments. Stood on guard to-night—the last
watch."
	Monday the 12th.—Brothers Brigham, Kim-
ball, father, Brother Benson, O. Pratt, G. A.
Smith, Dr. Richards, and a number of others
went back to Winter Quarters. Before
starting, it was agreed by the council that the
remainder of us left behind should travel on
about twelve miles to the 'Platte,' in order to
get across an extensive bottom that intervened,
lest is should rain and make it bad going, ac-
cordingly we travelled on and encamped on
the banks of the Platte, the sun being about
two hours high. Formed our wagons in a
kind of semi-circle, under Stephen Markham's
supervision, who has the cannon in charge.
Brother Markham called the people together
this evening and told them it was the wish of
the Twelve that some should go ahead and
look out for a good track to follow. Father
Case, Jack Redden, and two others volun-
teered.	*	*	*
	Tuesday the 13th.—Father Case, J. Redden,
and the two others appointed went out. Re-
turned and reported this evening that they
had ridden for twenty or thirty miles, and
found a low marshy country in general.
	Friday.—The Presidency having returned,
the camp were called together and organized
—two captains of 100's, viz., Setephen Mark-
ham and A. P. Rockwood were appointed;
also five captains of 50's and fourteen captains
of 10's. There are 153 men and boys on the
list of pioneers, three women, and Lorenzo 
Young's two little boys, and 73 wagons."
	The names of the women were: Harriet
Young, Clarissa D. Young, and Ellen Sanders
Kimball. Horace speaks of Brother J. C.
Little who was among the late arrivals, bring-
ing some valuable presents from Colonel Kane
to President B. Young, father, Porter Rock-

[Column 2]

well, Father John Smith, and Aunt Sabra
Granger, an old nurse in Father Whitney's
family, to whom he sent a box of black tea.
He remembered a number more. Among
them was Don C., my husband's little brother,
to whom he sent a complete and valuable set
of fishing tackle, having seen him often during
his (the Colonel's) sickness at Cutler's Park.
	About 2 p. m. the camp started, and Father
Whitney, J. C. Little, William Kimball,
Joseph B. Nobles, Lyman Whitney, little John
Whitney, and others returned to Winter
Quarters, bringing the last mail from the
Platte. We were glad to learn that they had
gone on, thinking it would hasten their return
home, besides their stopping so near made it
seem much harder than as though they were
traveling on. But we were not slow to im-
prove the opportunities to correspond. Every
messenger was the bearer of letters and tokens
of affection while they remained there, for we
did not know when we should have the chance
again. How far they were going, or how long
would be our separation, no one could tell.
They were going beyond the trackless wastes
of the Great American Desert—to what was
then an almost unknown country, among the
wild beasts and red men of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Nor were they to turn back till they
found some suitable spot where they could
form a colony, and make homes that they
thought would not be coveted nor encroached
upon by their white brethren, who had so
mercilessly driven them from their midst. The
out look was indeed a gloomy one, and needed
all the faith and hope that could be mustered
to sustain us under the circumstances, for
death was sweeping away its victims, and want
and suffering seemed to be staring us in the
face, which required courage, and a mighty
effort to obtain the requisite amount, to be able
to bear up under it. That was among the
saddest chapters in my history; and it made so
vivid an impression that though years have
elapsed, and erased many a scene of later date
they have not been able to obliterate it from my
memory, nor can I ever dwell upon it without
weeping. But the Lord was very merciful, and
it was only through His interposition that so
many were spared to meet again in the flesh.
For all we were brought into tight places, and
many even to the point of death, there came
deliverance when most needed. There was al-
ways a bright star of hope glimmering between
the heavy clouds as they bore down upon us,
till at last it seemed as though the very
heavens were being opened to pour down a
healing balm upon the wounded and disconso-
late—proving that "Earth has no sorrows that
heaven cannot heal."


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"COULD YE NOT WATCH WITH ME
ONE HOUR?"

	These words of the Savior rose in my mind
last Sunday as I sat in the congregation at
the Tabernacle waiting for the service to
commence. As is usual, there was much low
talking going on, and I was so unfortunate as
to get seated before two men, and could not
avoid hearing their talk. I thought of the
"lash of small cords" by which the Savior
drove out of the temple those who bought and
sold in it, and His severe rebuking words
upon the occasion. In words, these two men
bought and sold and built houses, bought land,
sat in judgment on the market and other
business matters, and evidently forgot where
they were, and that a crowd were within hear-
ing, who had assembled to worship the great
Creator of all good; and to offer up grateful
hearts for all the blessings so bountifully be-
stowed on His creatures of every grade and
clime; who had also come to lay aside the
daily cares of life, its trading, and trafficing,
and merchandising—in fine, the whole routine

[Column 2]

of the "six days' labor;"  and to prepare by
silent communings for the receiving of the
emblems of the atonement spread out before
the eyes of the whole congregation. I query
if those talking men were even aware of those
holy emblems and the Presence which they in-
dicated! or if in partaking of them they would
fail to realize the why and wherefore of the
act!  Their worldly talk must have also dis-
tracted the thoughts of those around them
who were within hearing. I asked myself the
question, Is it possible these men bear the
Holy Priesthood? I would hope not. What
must strangers in the congregation think when
they are liable to hear just such discussions
as fell upon my ear? Can we feel injured if
they go away and say, "How ignorant these
Mormons are?" Most true, such conduct is
the personification of ignorance. In all the
churches of the world silence is ever observed
before commencement of the service, and shall
we, as members of the Church of Christ, fail
in this beautiful and speaking silence when in
His Holy Temple? I have ever felt the in-
cessant talking npon all sorts of topics, often
degraded to gossip, in our Tabernacle is dero-
gatory to Saints. I cannot throw the mantle
of ignorance over it—for the principles of our
holy religion ignore such uncouth rudeness—
and a true Saint has an intuitive compre-
hension of the "fitness of things," and has the
heavenly polish of the Gospel! This I in-
stantly discovered on my first introduction to
a Latter-day Saint, and I have in no instance
seen it fail. We profess to stand on a higher
platform than the world; yet in no other place
of worship did I ever see the latitude and
lightness exhibited as in our Tabernacle;
*	*	and we cannot feel injured when we
hear strangers in our midst condemn the light
nonsensical, gossiping talk that is carried on
every Sabbath Day in our House of God!
There we see the elements of the atonement
spread out before our eyes, covered by pure
white napkins, the cups that are to contain
the emblem of the spilt blood of our Re-
deemer, and shall the minds of the congrega-
tion be so insensate that they cannot concen-
trate their thoughts upon that tremendous
sacrifice which these elements typify? withdraw
their thoughts from the cares and small joys
of earth, and fix them for a time upon the
greatness and sublimity of eternity? or in His
own touching words, "Watch with Him one
hour?"
	Shall good manners mark everywhere in the
world a lady and a gentleman, especially in
the House of God, and shall it be noted that
in the Temple of the L. D. S. only are seen
and heard the thoughtless and the irreverent?
God forbid! Among them should especially be
seen "an outward and visible sign of an in-
ward and spiritual grace!" or by what can we
be judged? 
	"The sweet amenities" of life may certainly
be reciprocated in the House of God, kind
inquiries after the sick and afflicted would be
in character, or short remarks upon some of
the principles of our holy religion, in low soft
voices, but business and wordly cares should
all be left at home, that the mind may be able
to concentrate itself upon the holy rites we as-
semble to commemorate. It will one day be
said: "The Lord is in His Holy Temple, let
all the earth keep silence before Him!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	August 27th, 1885.


"Nine young women lately received the de-
gree of B. A. at the graduation exercises of the
Royal University of Dublin."
	The American Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its seventeenth annual meeting in
Minneapolis, Minn., on Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, Oct. 13, 14, 15.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOONTIDE.

INSCRIBED WITH LOVING TENDERNESS TO
SISTER MARY GRAY.

I am standing on the Summit of the years my feet have
	climbed,
I am standing on the Summit and the noontide bell hath
	chimed,
And I am gazing Eastward where life's morning sun arose,
Gazing back unto that sunrise through a maze of joys and
	woes.

Those stepping-stones to heaven the days, and months, the
	years,
Those stepping-stones, each laden with brightest hopes and
	fears,
Upon each I find some token of their having lived and
	died,
Upon each some blessed token, as a pearl left by the tide,

Sweeping inward from the ocena with its strong and mighty
	swell,
Sweeping inward to the shore where earthly mortals dwell,
Bringing its countless treasures from the deep sea's stormy 
	bed, 
Bringing its countless treasures, bearing back our lost and
	dead.

Here I find childhood's treasures, flowers so fresh and fair,
Here I find girlhood's treasures, bright eyes and sunny hair;
Hearts all so light and joyous with never a thought of pain,
Hearts all so light and joyous, Oh would they were so
	again.

Here I find tears and sobbing all through a weary night,
Here I find tears and sobbing, with a preayer for one ray of
	light,
Only one gleam from heaven, one word from our God
	above.
Only one gleam from heaven, and to know it was sent in
	love.

This cross that seems so heavy, so hard for me to bear,
This cross so very heavy, it into my soul doth wear,
And the thorns that pierce so deeply, hid in the flowers so
	bright,
Those thorns that pierce so deeply, and the gloom where I
	looked for light.

Yet I would not see the future, let it be a sealed book,
I would not see the future, I'm not brave enough to look,
Only I ask for courage each day my live to live,
Only I ask that courage and faith my God will give.

Still to press on in the pathway, that Christ our Lord hat
	trod.
Still to press on in the pathway, that will lead me back to 
	God,
Bearing like Him in meekness the cross so hard to bear,
Bearing like Him in meekness, that I the crown may wear.

		HOPE.
	September 8th, 1885.


[Column 1]

OBSERVATIONS AND REFLECTIONS.

	How many people there are in the world
who love the marvelous, who watch eagerly for
something out of the usual line, and grasp with
avidity that which is scandalous or exciting.
How many writers there are who love to pander
to this weakness of human nature. Let mis-
fortunes overtake a person, and how soon the
tide of popular opinion is turned against him.
How quickly everybody remembers that he has
done something they have disapproved of, and
few are ready to encourage him or condone his
offense. The tongue of slander is ready to
vilify him, and ears are ever open to catch the
sweet morsel. Let the finger of scorn be
pointed at an individual, and a thousand
fingers are raised, many of them more deserv-
ing of scorn perhaps than the victim who has
incurred the censure of popular opinion.
	Many think to avert suspicion from them-
selves by turning the attention of the public
to the sins of their neighbors. Let a person
fall under criticism, and how soon it becomes
the style of every ill-natured scribbler to vent
his spleen through the press. How many sins
are condoned so long as the mask is worn that

[Column 2]

covers them from the public eye; but let that
be torn away and his fellows will pounce upon
him like wolves on a wounded companion and
rend him! Let a person, or a people, become
unpopular, and what wonderful ingenuity is
exercised in concocting and spreading reports
to their injury, and how eagerly they are swal-
lowed by a class of people who are constantly
on the gap for some obnoxious draught.
Nothing is too unreasonable if it panders to
the taste of the wonder loving multitude.
Nothing too noxious to excite the morbid
curiosity and satiate the appetite of public
opinion. The sacredness of the family circle
is invaded, and sensitive hearts are exposed,
torn and bleeding, to the curiosity of the gap-
ing crowd. Stories are set afloat and circulated
through the press that make the alleged actors
gaze with astonishment at the ingenuity of
their defamers. Men holding offices of respon-
sibility and trust are given characters such
as angels of darkness should blush to record.
When reading some wonderful story do we
ever stop to say: What if it should not be so?
What if all these nauseous drugs which we
swallow so easily are, after all, only bread pills,
and have really no bearing on the vital ques-
tion at issue? How many innocent victims
would be spared suffering and shame if people
would only ask themselves the question, What
if it should not be so? I am often astonished
at the worn-out fables that are cherished and
reported about Utah. After listening to one
of those "terrible episodes" of "Mormonism,"
which is certainly too silly to repeat, I asked
my informant what he thought of such a story.
He said he thought if they did such things they
should all be killed off. But I said, "Where
are the Federal courts; why did they not at-
tend to it?" He supposed the courts did not
know of it. How then did it get in the papers?
That seemed to puzzle him a little. I told him
if such things could happen, and the courts
not bring the guilty parties to punishment,
they were certainly derelict in their duties.
It is surprising to see the venom displayed by
many otherwise intelligent people in regard to
our Church. I inquired at a bookstore for
Phil Robinson's little book called "Saints
and Sinners." I explained that it was a work
published by a correspondent of the New York
World, and was entirely unbiased, the writer
taking an unprejudiced view of the people and
the country. He said he would order the
book if I wanted it, but he must inform me
that he was highly prejudiced against the
people and would not allow the book on his
shelves. I wanted to quote to him the words
of Paul: "He that answereth a matter before
he heareth it, it is a folly and a shame unto
him." I merely said that perhaps he was un-
justly prejudiced and passed out.
	I find many true loving Christian people
who are laboring for Christ and His cause, and
who seem sincere in feeling that all who em-
brace Christianity are the children of promise,
and I do not feel like condemning such, or feel
that they will be cast out from the blessings of
our Father's Kingdom. Christ says, "Blessed
are the pure in heart for they shall see God;"
and are there not many pure in heart who can-
not understand the principles of the "Ever-
lasting Gospel?" They hold their right of
salvation through Christ, and who shall say
they have not their reward? How I wish I
could bear a testimony that would impress
their minds and led them to see the principles
of life and salvation, but they will not listen.
The whole country is watching the progress of
events in Utah, and considers every conviction
another victory against plural marriage. If I
speak of injustice they tell me there is no in-
justice in making people obey the law. If I
say some were trying to obey it, only support-
ing their wives and children as humanity would
dictate, they say it serves them right; they

[Column 3]

should never have married them; they knew
better; the courts were sent there to put down
polygamy, and no method can be illegal that
accomplishes that purpose. That is the feeling
I meet almost universally. Not a heart even
throbs with pity for the wives and children
thus ruthlessly thrown on the charity of a cold
and unfeeling world. No sympathy for the
men who are suffering in felons' cells for main-
taining and defending the women who have
confided themselves to their love and protec-
tion. How then can I give them credit for
that charity which stands so high as a Chris-
tian grace, and when I see the hardness of
their hearts and their unwillingness to listen to
any good of those who are striving to live their
religion as a brotherhood in Christ? I think
God knows best, and He will judge the nations.
		M. J. TANNER.


PERSONAL ADORNMENT.

	In the year 1770 a law was passed and duly
registered in France under Louis XV., which
read thus: "Whosoever, by means of red or
white paint, perfumes, essences, artificial teeth,
false hair, cotton wool, iron corsets, hoops,
shoes with high heels, or false hips, shall seek
to entice into the hands of marriage any male
subject of his Majesty, shall be prosecuted for
witchcraft, and declared incapable of matri-
mony."
	If such a law as the above were to be passed
by our law-makers, what a rustling there would
be among the ladies! Why, the Edmund's law
would be nowhere!
	But, putting aside the funny part of the
matter, let us look at the reality. I, for one,
think the French king was about right when
he thought that woman who were slaves to the
caprices of fashion were unfit for matrimony.
Certain it is, that if a woman is going to allow
her mind to be absorbed by the follies of the
day, her family will be neglected in some way.
Her children may be faultlessly clothed,
everything of the latest design, but where so
much attention is given to that, when is the
mind to receive its adornments and trimmings?
When do they find time (or, I might say take
the time) to lay up fresh beauties for our
mental development and cultivation? It is
quite safe to say not more than an hour a week
on an average.
	God has not blessed everyone with personal
beauty, but, with a very few exceptions, He
has blessed us all with bright intellects, and
for all His blessings we are in a measure ac-
coutnable for the use we make of them. And
are we to neglect the richest of all blessings
(the mind) merely that we may find time to
make what we think the necessary adornments
for our bodies that we may please for a while
till we have succeeded in catching a husband?
That is about the sum of it. If we watch we
can easily tell where this is more or less the
case. After the beauty of appearance has
fled, how miserable indeed must she be who
has devoted her time and means only to per-
sonal attractions. On the other hand, a
cultivated mind makes old age beautiful and
truly happy—a beauty and happiness that will
last through time and all eternity.
		H. A.


The Association for the Advancement of
Women will hold its thirteenth Congress in
Des Moines, Ia., Oct. 7, 8, 9, with executive
sessions at 10 a. m., and public sessions at 2.30
and 8 p.m.
     "The civic commemoration of the death of
General Grant will take place at Tremont
Temple on the afternoon of September 29.
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe will read an original
ode, and Henry Ward Beecher will deliver an
oration."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldredge
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z. C. M. I. Business
hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
	THE DAYS IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	These are remarkable days indeed. The times
which “try men’s souls,” and women’s too.
Verily the prophecies are being fulfilled, and one
cannot but see it if his eyes are open to that which
is transpiring around him. In the midst of such
occurrences as are daily taking place, how careful
should each individual be to keep on safe ground;
to fulfill every duty, that the adversary may not
gain any advantage over him; to cultivate
humility and patience, for the Bible says: “Pride
goeth before a fall," and it might be dangerous
even to stumble in a time like this, for there are
many pitfalls which have a fair covering, and the
foolish and unwary may be deceived if they have
not the spirit of discernment, for there are many
false spirits that seek to destroy and lead into bye
and forbidden paths the children of the covenant.
Therefore it behooves all Latter-day Saints to set
a stronger watch upon the children of Zion, and
parents to be doubly diligent and mindful, lest in
some unforeseen way, the enemy who is most
artful and cunning allure them from the straight
and narrow path which the Gospel has marked
out, into the broad highway of sin and folly, where
so many are drifting, carried thither by pride,
vanity, love of gold, and desire for popularity.
But remember all these are only temporary, and
please for a time, and very often are like “Dead
Sea apples,” fair without, but within are full of
bitterness, and how many have found after follow-
ing in pursuit of some bewildering fancy, only
alas too late, that they have lost beyond recall the
Jewel dearer to them than life itself, and what has
been gained? Nothing lasting; only a bitter ex-
perience, a harvest of sorrow after the sowing of
the seeds of selfishness. There are many “who
lay in wait to deceive,” to tempt with false pre-
tences the virtuous and pure from the path of
rectitude, and their arts and subterfuges are more
entangling than the web the spider weaves to catch
the silly flies. We smile at the simple flies that
are so easily caught, but the filmy webs that are
not perceptible to the young and unsophisticated,
often blinded as they are by the bewildering
glamour of fancy, are wrought by the skill and
cunning of those who are adepts at deception,
“whose steps lead down to hell;” in these the
innocent and thoughtless are often entangled, and
price ensnared it is seldom indeed they can en-
tirely free themselves.
	This is, in the strictest sense of the word, an
age of licentiousness; let him who can close his
eyes to the fact, and when the youth of Zion make
pleasure-seeking the aim of life, what can be ex-
pected?  The Lord has gven to His people in
this dispensation certain principles to be observed,
in order that He may have a remnant upon the
earth that will honor Him, a covenant people who
will be pure, and it behooves those who have ac-
cepted the Gospel to be humble, prayerful; and
obedient, that they may be able to stand in the
midst of trials and temptations, and stem the cur-

[Column 2]
rent of wickedness that is flooding the earth, and
so fortify Zion against the encroachments of sin
and crime, that the Saints may not be contamin-
ated by the evils thal are threatening the nations
of the earth with final overthrow and destruction.
	The youth of Zion should choose good company,
shun evil associates as they would a loathsome
disease, that can only kill the body, but the other
might eventually lead to the loss of all that is
worth living for.  The young cannot be too well
instructed in those things which tend to purity of
life and character, nor too closely watched over
and guarded in all their walk and conversation.
The strictest honesty and uprightness should be
observed, remembering the sacred covenants un-
der which they were born, the great mission they
ar. expected to perform, and the high and holy
destiny that awaits those who maintain their in-
tegrity to the Kingdom of God.
	It seems that every variety of wickedness is
sought to be introduced into the midst of this
people, and assuredly are the words of the Pro-
phet coming to pass who said, “Let us look upon
Zion that she may be defiled!” But to those who
observe the signs of the times, and who keep the
commandments given, God will give a portion of
His Holy Spirit, that they may foresee the evil,
and hide themselves from it.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Elizabeth 
Howard and Dr. Romania B. Pratt attended the 
Sisters' Conference in Tooele, on the 12th and 
13th insts. 

	THE Primary Fair of this Stake will open in the 
Social hall on Thursday, Sept. 17th, under the 
supervision of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson and her 
counselors, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells and Mrs. 
Camilla C. Cobb. 

	SISTER Eliza R. Snow Smith returned to Logan 
on the 11th inst., to resume her labors in the 
Temple, where she had previously been laboring 
for some time.  Though so far advanced in years, 
she is enjoying good health, and her mind is  as 
bright and active in years gone by.

	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake 
will be held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly 
Rooms of Friday, Sept. 18th; and on Saturday, 
19th, the Primary Conference will be held in the 
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 
a. .m.; and the Young Ladies Conference will 
convene at 2 p. m. in the Fourteenth Ward. 

	ON Thursday, the 3rd, we attended a Primary
meeting in the 21st Ward, Mrs. Mary Davis pre-
siding.  The children were orderly, and rendered 
their exercises very creditably, and speeches 
suited to the occasion were made by the visitors 
present, among whom were Mrs. Hannah T. King,  
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Mrs. Emma Toone, Mrs. 
Ellen C. Clawson, and others.  The singing exer-
cises were specially fine.  Sister Davis and coun-
selors deserve great credit for their energy and 
diligence in advancing the children, and promoting 
their spiritual improvement.


[Column 1]	
	VISIT TO SANPETE, AND MEETINGS.

	On Thursday morning, September 10th, we
started on a short visit to the sisters in Sanpete
Stake, expecting to attend the Conference of
Relief Society at Manti the following day.  At
Nephi we were joined by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth,
President of the Relief Society in Juab Stake, and 
together we journeyed onward to Moroni by train.
Arriving at Moroni, we dined at the Bishop's, and
a carriage was in waiting to convey the party to
Manti.  Our party consisted of four ladies and a 
little boy to drive, Eddie Christianson, a fine little
fellow and a very good charioteer.  Mrs. Deborah

[Column 2]
Irons joined us at Moroni, and Mrs. Ella Empey,
who, by the way, had been a traveling companion
all the way from Salt Lake, made up a very plea-
sant part for the ride to Manti.  We halted at
President Peterson's at Ephraim, and staid long
enough to rest the horses and take supper with
them,  and afterwards drove on to Manti.  The
next morning, Friday, September 11th, the Quar-
terly Conference of the Relief Society of Sanpete
Stake convened in the Council House at Manti,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde presiding.  There were present
of the brethren President Maiben, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, of Nephi, Bishops and others.
	As the secretary did not arrive with the minutes
and reports, the morning was occupied in speak-
ing.  President Maiben offered up a very eloquent
prayer, and the singing was excellent.  The 
President, Mrs. Hyde, made a brief address, and
was followed by Mrs. Jane Casto, President of
South Ward Relief Society, and Sister Deborah
Irons, counselor in the Relief Society at Moroni.
Each of these gave a good report of the respective
branch to which she belonged.
	The meeting was then addressed by Mrs. Amy
L. Bigler and Mrs. Mary Pichforth, of Nephi,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of this city.
	President Maiben made some closing remarks,
expressing his appreciation of the labors of the
Relief Society, and encouraging the sisters to per-
severe in doing good.  Choir sang in a very
impressive manner "How beauteous are their feet,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca Wanham.
	At the afternoon meeting two or three wagon
loads of peopel had come over from Ephraim—
President Peterson, Bishops Anderson and 
Dorius, among others.  Elder Frank Taylor was
also present to take charge of the choir.  Meeting
opened with spirited singing, and Bishop Ander-
son offered prayer.  After singing again, the
young secretary, Miss Mary Hyde, read the 
minutes of the previous Conference, which were
approved, and the statistical and financial reports
from various parts of the Stake.  Counselor Sarah
Peterson was the first speaker.  Her remarks were
principally upon the financial condition of the
Society, and said though they had over 5,000
bushels of wheat in the granaries, that was very
little if a famine was impending.  She also spoke 
of the factory that the sisters had anticipated
building, and spoke with much earnestness on
home manufacture and other similar subjects.
	President Hyde made some remarks on the
situation in which the people are placed at the
present time, and gave good advice and instruc-
tion to those associated with her in the Relief
Society, etc.
	Mrs. Hansen and Mrs. Ellen Dorius, of
Ephraim, and Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson, of Foun-
tain Green, represented the Society over which
each presided as in a favorable condition, and
added a testimony of the truth of the Gospel.  The
choir sang "Beautiful Home."
	Mrs. Rebecca Wareham, of Manti North Ward,
gave a report of the Society, and spoke upon the
appreciation of blessings, and alluded to the
storing of wheat, the exertions that had been
made in times past to glean, referred to the culti-
vation and manufacture of silk, and at the close
of her remarks, to the signs of the times.  Said
when we were driven from Nauvoo we were 
driven to a better land, etc.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the special mis-
sion of the sisters, of the labors in which they
were called to assist, of home manufacture; on
charity and integrity to all the principles of the
Gospel.
	President Canute Petersen referred to the exer-
tions that had been made to establish home in-
dustries, especially a tannery, and suggested the
appointing of a committee to ascertain the proba-
bilities of having a factory.  Nominated his
counselors, John B. Maiben and—Beal, as two
of said committee, and that they should have the


[Column 1]﻿ 
privilege of naming five, others to assist them.
Spoke mainly upon the persecutions the people
are enduring and said many good things, and
encouraged all to persevere, for those who would
keep a celestial law might expect to inherit a
celestial glory. Said what need the Saints care if
even a heavy storm does come and rock them
about, they have no fear as to the landing on safe
ground.		
	President Hyde put the motion of President
Petersen in reference to a committee of seven to
vote, and it was unanimously carried.
	Bishop Anderson of Ephraim then spoke a
short time upon the duties and labors of the
sisters and stated some of his views on the sub-
jects that had been introduced during the meeting.
	President Hyde adjourned the Conference until
the 19th of December, to be held at Ephraim.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we bless
thee.” Benediction by Patriarch Bigler.
	After meeting we had the privilege of going
through the Temple and environs, and were much
interested in all that we saw and heard. Presi-
dent Maiben and wife invited us to drive out with
them to the “warm springs,” a short distance out
on the route to Mayfield. We accepted the invi-
tation with pleasure, and thoroughly enjoyed the
romantic scenery, the hills and vales, the fields of
grain, and the new mown hay with its ever grate-
ful fragrance, all added to the consciousness of
pleasure, and for the time we gloried in the
beauties of nature. In the evening we had a pleasant
call from Mr. Harrington, editor of the Manti
Sentinel, a new enterprise in that locality.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Sanpete
Stake convened on Saturday morning, September
12th, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding. Minutes
of the previous Conference were read by the
secretary, Mrs. Parley Petersen, and general re-
marks were made by the young President calcu-
lated to give encouragement.
	Most excellent remarks were made by Mrs.
Mary Pitchforth to the young ladies upon im-
proving and educating their minds.
	One of the counselors of the Central Board
being present, spoke upon true womanhood, gave
excellent advice, and counseled the girls to
qualify themselves to be good and true wives and
mothers, and spoke of the motto of the Associa-
tion being improvement, and perfection the aim.
	The secretary read an essay on fashions, etc.,
which was very creditable.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the method of con-
ducting the meetings, urged the secretaries to
make their minutes brief and as perfect as pos-
sible, entreated the young girls to be prompt in
every duty, and be careful what company they
kept, avoid all excesses and the keeping of late
hours, which  often led to evil. Spoke of the
influence young ladies might exercise upon so-
ciety, and advised them to set up a high standard
of excellence to attain to.
	Miss Olive Lowry recited in a very expressive
manner a poem entitled "One Stalk of Wheat."
	President Maiben gave a brief address, exhort-
ing the young girls to improve the opportunities
now afforded them of laying up wisdom and
knowledge, and alluded to the subjects which had
been treated upon.
	Remarks were made suitable to the occasion by
Patriarch Bigler.
	Elder Frank Taylor made a few spirited re-
marks at the close of the meeting, giving the
young girls some excellent advice. Singing and
benediction.
	Primary Conference at 2 p.m., Mrs. Helena
Madsen presiding. The exercises of the children
were well rendered, and the singing was heavenly.
We expect hereafter to publish in detail the
exercises.
	The same evening we attended a general meet-
ing at Ephraim, in their large and commodious

[Column 2]
meeting house; a very full attendance of brethren
and sisters.
	Sunday morning.—Visited the Sunday Schools
of the North and South Wards, Ephraim, and in
the evening met with the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and Relief Society at Moroni.
	Monday.—We met with the Relief Society at
Nephi at 12 a.m., and dined at the residence of
Mrs. Rebecca Udall, with quite a pleasant party
of ladies. Altogether the visit to Sanpete was a
very pleasant affair, and we shall ever remember
the kind people we have met and associated with
in that Stake of Zion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	﻿FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:—It would give me great pleasure
to send you a few lines from this far-off land that
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT,but as I am not gifted in that direction
you will have to look for that merit from some
other source. I can, however, tell you that the
EXPONENT comes to us as a most welcome visitor
in a strange and foreign land. We prize it not
only as a messenger coming fresh from our moun-
tain home, where so many of our dear ones are,
but as a valued and interesting companion and
friend, and an instructor of great worth. Our
foreign society here is very limited, and more so
at present than usual, as nearly all the Elders are
out among the people on this and the other islands
laboring in their callings as missionaries, while
the President and two or three brethren in charge
of important interests on the plantation, and three
foreign sisters with our little children, are all that
remain on the place, in company with the little
colony of native Saints, most of whom have
gathered here from other parts of the islands.
	Brother Farr has the general oversight and
management of this mission, and of the business
of this plantation.
	Brother Jos. S. Hyde, one of the sons of the late
Apostle Orson Hyde, is teaching an English
school here at the gathering place, and has about
49 pupils; all except one of these are Hawaiian
children from six to eighteen years of age, and
many of them are bright and intelligent, and are
making commendable progress in their study of
the English tongue.	
	Brother S. Allred has charge of the live stock
of the plantation, and furnishes the colony, es-
pecially those employed on the plantation, with
the principal part of their beef.
	Brother A. Westly is the “master mechanic,”
and finds ample employment in keeping the
machinery, fanning implements, etc., etc., in run-
ning order.		
	The Saints here have the finest looking meeting
house that I have seen on this island, outside of
Honolulu. It is certainly a credit to the place
and the builders.
	Their old meeting house is now being used
principally as a school-house, but still serves for
Priesthood meetings, testimony meetings, meet-
ings of the various associations, and for ordinary
purposes. Meetings are held in the large new
house from 10 to 12 every Sabbath morning and
from 8 to 5 p. m. The Saints meet in the old
meeting house for prayer and testimony. These
services are always conducted in the Hawaiian
language, the congregation being almost exclu-
sively natives. I notice that the native people,
both men and women, seem to be very fluent and
ready speakers. I have never yet seen either man
or woman falter for a word or hesitate in giving
expression to their thoughts. They are evidently
great talkers, and are very earnest and emphatic
in their gestures, but I will not now try to describe
the people. Besides the general meetings on the
Sabbath, Sunday School is held from 8 to 9.30
a. m., Mutual Improvement Associations meet

[Column 2]
between 1 and 3 p. m., and in the evening there is
a meeting for the foreign Elders and their families,
generally held in the mission house, occupied by
reading the Scriptures and commenting ther eon.
The reading of the Scriptures is joined in by both
the brethren and sisters, and is in English, but
the singing and prayer is generally done in the
native language, so as to aid the Elders in their
study thereof. There is a very efficient female
Relief Society at Laie, of which Sister Kapo
Keaakolo is the President, and Sister Kaahahui
and Napapale are her counselors. Sister Hana
Naihe is the secretary and Sister Kekuewa Moses-
the treasurer.
	There are three other societies on this island,
at Kahana, about eight miles from here, and at
Honolulu and Waikiki. There are also one or
more societies each on the island of Hawaii,
Maui, Molokai, and  Kauai, all in more or less
efficient working condition.
	At the last April Conference the General Presi-
dency of the Relief Society for the mission were
chosen as follows: E. Farr, President; Kaheaana
Kealakaihonua and Esther Kalua Coles, coun-
selors. The two counselors, who are very faithful
and intelligent native sisters, recently returned
from visiting the Relief Society of north-eastern
Hawaii, a conference over which Brother R. V.
Miller is presiding, consisting of the district of
Kohala Hamakua and Hilo, where they organized
and reorganized several branches, some of which
had become a little dilapidated for the need of
proper care and pruning.
	They contemplated making a trip on the same
business during this month to the island of
Kauai. Their expenses are borne by the Relief
Society, and as these sisters are excellent
speakers, and possessed of more than ordinary
intelligence, and of an excellent spirit they are
very efficient missionaries, as well as faithful
laborers in the society.
	At this place (Laie) there is a very commodious
and convenient frame building, erected by the
organizations of the islands, designed for the
assistance and convenience of such as might need
a temporary dwelling place on coming to the
gathering place, until they could make permanent
arrangements for themselves, and for the general
purposes of the Society at headquarters.
	I am happy to say we are all in the enjoyment
of good health, and peace and the good spirit seems,
to prevail.
	God bless you and the EXPONENT, and all the
faithful and true hearted in Zion. May the dark
clouds of persecution which seem to be gathering
blackness over our fair land, threatening devasta-
tion and sorrow, soon be dispersed by the over-
ruling power of God, in whom we trust, and yet
shower blessings upon the heads of the faithful,
instead of the destruction which they now threaten,
is my earnest prayer.  	
	Very Respectfully, Your Sister in the Gospel,
	J.
Laie, Oahu, S. I., Aug. 12d, 1885.


YOUNG JOSEPH. 

	Young Joseph as he is called, is at the present,
time in Utah, and because he is ths son, of the
Prophet there may be those who would naturally
enough wish to see and hear him mainly because
he is the son of the Prophet Joseph. But al-
though he is the son of the Prophet, he is at the
present time at the head of a Church composed-
mostly of apostates from the true Church of
Christ and our avowed enemies seeking in our
midst whom they may destroy.
	They are, or the most of them, are apostates of
the darkest hue. They have not only apostatized
from the true Church but they seek to destroy it
and agitate a warfare against the people of God,
who have retained their faith in the Gospel.
	The Josephites claim to be guided by


the "Doctrine and Covenants" and are carrying out
the work commenced by the Prophet Joseph. I
once listened to one of their elders for a few mo-
ments, who was talking to a few persons who had
been enticed together to hear what he had to say
when there was a pause in the conversation. I
asked him the following questions which he
answered.
	Do you believe in sending missionaries to the
world to preach?
	Only a few at the present time.
	Do you believe in the gathering of the Saints?
	Not now, but will by and by.
	No, and do not expect to do so untill we get to
Jackson County.
	Do your people pay any tithing?
	No we do not.
	Do you believe in celestial marriage?
	No.
	Do you believe in plural marriage?
	No we surely do not.
	No, said I, nor in any of the fundamental princi-
ples of the work of God, as taught by the Prophet,
Joseph, and I left him.
	They frequently quote the saying of Paul:
"Prove all things and hold fast to that which is
good." When we know that they are apostates
and are full of animosity toward the Church of
Christ and would destroy it if they could, and that
they are full of darkness (for they cannot take the
Holy Ghost with them) and, as Jesus said, "how
great is that darkness;" when we know that they
want to draw down with themselves as Satan does
all they can to destruction and nothing to give to
us but the filth of apostacy, why should we wish
to prove them or hear them preach.
	Now, I say, let us not go after them, for if we
do we therby bid them God speed, and His
Spirit will not go with us, and we may not be en-
abled to find it again for (there are principalities
and powers above over which we have no con-
trol) or if we should have made a blotch upon
the great white sheet spread out before us on
which to write our character for eternity. If we
go upon Satan's ground he will claim his own as
he did with Moses because he sinned. Then as
Paul admonishes us, when we think we stand let
us take heed lest we fall and shun the very appear-
ance of evil.
	S. F. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	R. S. REPORT

	EPHRAIM, COLORADO.
	The first annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ephraim Ward of the San Luis
Stake of Zion, held in the meeting house, Aug.
11, 1885.
	The house was very handsomely decorated
with evergreens and  flowers from Sister Bodelia
Poulson's flower garden.  There were many
beautiful quilts of all kinds of patterns hang-
ing up—stockings, linseys, laces, embroideries,
tidies, and pillow-slips, and one lovely knitted
bedspread knit by Sister L. M. Thoms, and
other nice things too numerous to mention.
Prest. A. M. Rasmussen presided in the meet-
ing.  Singing by choir.  Prayer by A. H. 
Rasmussen. Singing. Rollcalled, 25 mem-
bers present, 32 enrolled.  Minutes of the pre-
vious meeting read and approved.  Statistical
and financial report was then read.
	Prest. A. M. Rasmussen then gave thanks
for the decorating of the house, and gave very
good instructive advice and counsel, exhorting
us to press forward in future as in times past.
Several of the other sisters bore their testi-
monies and gave very good instructions.
	This Bishop and Counselors, Home Mis-
sionaries N. S. Whitney and Joseph Hunsaker,

[Column 2]
our school teacher, and Brother H. C. Heiselt
made excellent remarks.  Each bore a testi-
mony to the good spirit which was in our
midst.  Gave other good instructions.
	The following named officers were then sus-
tained in their positions.  A. M. Rasmussen,
president; Mary Coray and Mena Cornum,
counselors; Annie Otteson, secretary; Annie
Cornum, assistant secretary; Sorsena Heiselt,
treasurer.  Singing by choir.  Benediction by
the President; after which all, numbering
about 90, went to Sister Bodelia Poulson's 
where the tables were spread with abundance
of good things and dainties of all kinds, and
in the evening went forth in the dance, enjoy
ing ourselves very much, until 12 o'clock, when
all retired. We have a very peaceable com-
munity, living at peace with our enemies more
than is generally the case at present.  Crops
generally look well, and if frost keeps off we
shall be blessed with a bounteous harvest better 
than heretofore.
	Your Sisters in the Gospel,
	A. M. RASMUSSEN, Prest.
	ANNIE OTTESON, Sec.

	REORGANIZATION
	A meeting of the First Ward Relief Society 
was held in the First Ward meeting house on
Thursday, Sept. 3rd 1885.  There were pre-
senr, besides the officers and members of the
Relief Society, Bishop Joseph Warburton and
his counselors, Joseph Booth and Alexander
Steel.  The President, Sister Miriam G. Chase,
resigned her office as President on account of
old age, and the treasurer, Sarah J. Sement
also.  It was found necessary to reorganize the
Society, whereupon the following officers were
elected, and were set apart by the Bishop and
his counselors.  Margaret F. Steel, President;
Annie Young and Jane E. Van Tassel; coun-
selors; Annie S. Musser, secretary; Mary W.
Musser, treasurer; Caroline Grouch, President
of the Teachers. 

	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society of
Utah County, held August 28th, 1885—Presi-
dent Mary John presiding with her counselors.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. The
minutes of former Conference were read by
secretary; also reports from the different
branches throughout the county etc.
	President John in her remarks said we are,
according to our report, great helps to our
brethren in many ways—in helping to build
Temples, Tabernacles, and in caring for the
sick and the afflicted, the poor and the needy;
and although we have no visitors with us
to-day, I feel that we can edify one another.
We will hear verbal reports from the Presi-
dents of the several branches of the Relief
Society of the Stake, and this afternoon we
expect to be favored with the company of some
of the brethren who will speak to us. Since
our last Conference we have sustained another
loss in the deat of Sister Beebe, who was our
treasurer, as also President of the Silk Associ-
ation of this Stake.
	The Relief Society of the county was repre-
sented, with but few exceptions, by the respec-
tive Presidents, the reports being favorable as
to an increase of faith and good works, and a
determinaton to press forward to the end and
gain salvation and eternal lives.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff spoke of the loss we
had sustained since our last Conference in the 
death of Sister Hester Ann Beebe; and said in
the last two years we have been called to
mourn the loss of three of our dear sisters who
were wont to meet with us here at this stand
—Sister Margaret A. Gluff, counselor, and our
beloved Ma Smoot, our President, and now
Sister Beebe, our treasurer, who was also Stake
President of the Silk Association of Utah

[Column 3]
County. Sister Cluff exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in attending these meetings, and also
the fast meetings, and said the good these
organizations are doing will never be esti-
mated until the great day of reckoning; ex-
horted mothers to guard their children, pray
with them, and teach them to pray, etc.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session was opened by the usual
exercises.  After a few remarks from Counselor
Marilla Daniels, the time was occupied by the 
brethren of the Presidency of the Stake.
	President H. H. Gluff being the first
speaker, spoke of our present persecution as
one of the greatest evidences of the truth of
this work.  God's purposes are peculiar, and
in direct opposition to the plans of man.  We
must maintain and promote the interests of 
this people, etc.
	President David John followed with good
counsels to all.
	President A. O. Smoot heartily endorsed the 
teachings we had received, and gave more
good counsel in regard to keeping out of
debt, and in regard to teaching the children
to be neat, industrious, humble and prayerful,
and not to follow after the fashions of
Babylon, etc.
	After a few more remarks from President
Mary John, Conference adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.


Y. L. M. I. A. ﻿REUNION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourth Ward,
Ogden, held a grand reunion on Wednesday,
August 26th, 1885.  It was in honor of the
parents of the members of the Society, and was
held in the meeting-house and in the pavilion
on Lester Park. At the meeting in the fore-
noon some excellent exercises were given in
the meeting-house. Sister Ruthinda E. Monch,
who has for six years been the President of the
association and given the utmost satisfaction,
resigned her position, which was accepted. At
the close of the forenoon meeting one of the
finest feasts ever given in Ogden awaited the
people in the pavilion. It was prepared by the
members. Three hundred persons feasted from
the good things, and there was much left which
was given to the poor. Among the prominent
persons present were: President L. W. Shurt-
liff and counsel; Sister Jane S. Richards, Stake
President, of the Relief Society; Sister Sarah
A. Herrick, Prest. Y. L. M. I. A.; Hon. Joseph
Stanford and wife, Hon. Jos. A. West and
wife, and presidents of the city societies. After
dinner a fine programme was carried out in the
pavilion, which had been beautifully decorated
for the occasion. The exercises were of the
highest order. Speeches were made by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards and several of the
brethren. Sister Monch received deserved
credit for her diligent labors in behalf of the
association. In the evening nearly one hun-
dred couples enjoyed themselves greatly in a
pleasant party in the pavilion. The kindliest
feeling prevailed throughout. We give below
a well written essay on “The Object of the
Reunion,” written and read in the afternoon
by Mrs E. H. Anderson.

	OBJECT OF OUR REUNION.
	It seems hardly necessary to state the object
of a meeting of this class. It gives its own, on
the face of it. To write of the object of our
gathering to-day is like writing an introduc-
tion to a preface. But since it has been alloted
to me, there can be no harm in an expression
that may explain more fully, perhaps, than
the pleasant spirit that animates us all, why
we are assembled here on this occasion.


A reunion is a meeting of associates, and
may be for specified purposes.  Reunions are
held to meet old friends, to celebrate events,
to show respect for classes, people, or societies.
Our meeting to-day is a reunion to show re-
spect, in every sense of the word, to our fathers
and mothers whom we have invited to spend a
few hours with us.  While we trust we have so
conducted ourselves that our parents are well
aware that we venerate, love, and respect them,
yet we have invited them here to show that the
same regard which we cherish for them pri-
vately, we delight to show them in the society 
of our friends and the public.
	There is sweet melody in the sound of father
and mother.  We love to pronounce these
words.  The sound delights us as the merry
ripple of the brook; and we love them as the 
return of spring with the music of birds. When
we think of their labors for us, none among us 
can fail to feel the importance of their mission,
nor see the magnitude of their works.  They
have done many things for our good.  In re-
gard to parents, we are somewhat differently
situated from many of the children of the
earth.  Our parents were reformers.  They
marked out for themselves, early in life, a path
which varied from that in which the majority
of mankind trod, and for this innovation re-
ceived the jeers of the cold world.  They kept
steadfast, however, for their guide was the
Lord, and their trust the power of Omnipotence.
There is no necessity here to more than re-
mind the audience of the cares, labors, trials,
temptations and obstacles that have silvered
the hairs of the noble men and women whose
labors have brought us peace and plenty. 
They are too well known to need recounting.
The lesson we may learn, however, from their
experience should not be passed over so easily
and so lightly.  In all their tribulation they
were yet prosperous and contented.  This
prosperity and contentment sprang from their
obedience to God and to the whisperings of the
Holy Spirit,  so that in all their adversity they
could yet rejoice and praise God.  Through
His blessings they have made the desert waste
bloom with the prosperity of civilization. Their
homes have been blessed with children who
have grown up in the fear of the Lord, while
all around the Giver of all good has smiled
upon them with prosperity.  In common with
them, we enjoy all these mercies to-day, and
while so doing, it is highly proper to remember
the circumstances that brought these about, 
the vicissitudes that createdthem under the
power and guidance of God.  It is proper to
meet together, and, reflecting upon the past,
remember that it is our parents' adversity
which has led to our prosperity; their inspira-
tion which has led to our knowledge; their 
faith and works which inspire us to diligence
in the great work which lies before us.  It is
proper and well that we meet together in re-
union in honor of our parents, to show that we
appreciate what they have done for us, that
the love of their labors, toils, trials, is not for-
gotten by their children.  We cannot do
enough to show our appreciation, but they may
rest assured that we love them.  As sons and
daughters of such noble sires—men and 
women who battled and overcame, who planted
the feet of prosperity in the desert—we meet,
in a land which you have made delightful, to
welcome you to our little reunion, to extend
our love to you, to ask the Father of all to
continue his blessings upon you.
	We can offer you no great things, but as
your children we meet, and with one accord,
in songs and voices of praise, gratitude, love,
make the proud heavens of our free land ring
from mountain to mountain with your chil-
dren's "God bless you."
	REPORTER.
Ogden, Utah, Aug. 27, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DIALOGUE.

BY L. K. YOUNG.

[Characters: Mary, Minnie, Rose, Ethel, Elsie,
Katie.]

	Mary.—Now, girls, as we have met in ac-
cordance with our appointment, we will pro-
ceed to give an account of  the different
organizations of the sisters, and the object of
their organization, or what items of informa-
tion we have been able to get.
	Minnie.—The Relief Society comes first,
does it not?
	Rose.—Yes; that was the first one organized,
	Ethel.—That was instituted by Joseph
Smith; but ma has forgotten the date of its 
organization.
	Elsie.—It was organized March 17th, 1842.
	Katie.—Has it been continued from that
time until the present?
	Ma.—No; it was inoperative from 1846, the
time of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo,
until 1855, when it was reorganized it Salt
Lake City.
	Eth.—And now there are many branches
of the Relief Society.
	Min.—Yes; there are many branches, but
they are all working in unison, striving to
assist in the building up of the Kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	Ma.—I have an extract from the history of
Joseph Smith, which defines the duties of the
Relief Society, and gives the names of the first
officers.
	Rose.—I, too, have an extract.
	Eth.—And I.
	El.—Mary, please give us your extract, and
then the rest of us will follow with our infor-
mation.
	Ma.—I can repeat it.  He says:  "March 24,
—I attended, by request, the Female Relief
Society, whose object is the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Its organization was completed this day.  Mrs.
Emma Smith takes the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Mrs. Sarah
Ann Cleveland are her counselors; Miss El-
vira Cole is treasurer; and our well-known
and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
secretary." 
	Eth.—In speaking of the sisters of our
Church, he says:  "Our ladies have always
been signalized for their acts of benevolence
and kindness; but the cruel usage they have 
received from the barbarians of Missouri has
hitherto prevented their extending the hand of
charity in a conspicuous manner."
	Min.—On another occasion he said:  "I met 
the members of the Female Relief Society, and
after presiding at the admission of many new
members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in pos-
session of the privileges, blessings, and gifts of 
the Priesthood, and that signs should follow 
them—such as healing the sick, casting out
devils, etc., and that they might attain unto
these blessings by a virtuous life, and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the com-
mandments."
	Ka.—On page 49 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "Because
of these organizations Utah has no poor-
houses.  Under the kind and sisterly policy of 
this society the worthy poor feel much less
humiliated, and are better supplied, than any
alms-house system extant.  By an admirable
arrangement, under the form of visiting com-
mittees with well defined duties, the deserving
subjects of charity are seldom, if ever, ne-
glected or overlooked."
	Rose.—Where does the Relief Society get
their means to work with?
	El.—They had but little to begin with, but
by working they add to their capital, and the

[Column 2]
Lord is sure to bless everybody who works for
the building up of his kingdom, whether 
individually or collectively.
	Eth.—Some  branches of the Society have
built houses to meet in.
	Rose.—I wonder where the first Relief
Society house was built?
	Ma.—In the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake
City.
	Min.—The laying of the corner-stone of that 
building was performed by women.
	El.—On page 191 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "This
ceremony—the laying of the corner-stone—
being performed, was followed by appropriate
speech-making on the part of the presiding
officers of the society, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
Eliza R. Snow, and others, each in turn
mounting the corner-stone for a rostrum, and
each winning deserved applause from the as-
sembled thousands."
	Ka.—You will find in vol. iv., page 287,
"Times and Seasons," the first annual report
of the Relief Society.  They received during
that year in money, clothing, and provisions
507 dollars.  Of that, 306 dollars and 48 cents
was expended for the relief of the poor.
	Ma.—The Relief Society Central Board was
organized June 19th, 1880, with the following
named officers:  Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, President;
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, counselors; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
secretary; and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, trea-
surer.
	Min.—Since then Sister Whitney died.
	Ma.—Yes; but the vacancy caused by her
death has not yet been officially filled.
	Eth.—Was the Young Ladies' Association
the next one organized?
	Ma.—Yes; that was the second organization
of the women, but there was an organization
in Nauvoo called the Young Gentlemen's and
Ladies Relief Society.  They held their first
meeting one evening in the latter part of
January, 1843.  But their organization was
not completed until the 21st of March the
same year, with William Walker, President;
William Cutler, Vice-President; Lorin Walker,
treasurer; and James Monroe, secretary.
	Rose.—I have never heard of that before.
	Ka.—Mary read the account of their or-
ganization to several of us a few days ago.
	Rose.—What book is it in; I would like to
read it?
	Ma.—The "Times and Season," vol. iv.,
page 154.
	Min.—I was there and heard her read it.
They had such good meetings.  Joseph Smith
and others of the leading men attended their
meetings, and gave them very good instruc-
tions.  But Brother Heber C. Kimball took 
the lead in organizing them.
	Ma.—I will try to repeat an extract, which
may be found on page 155, vol. iv., "Times
and Seasons."  President Smith was present
at one of their meetings, when "he expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strongest
terms for having commenced and carried on
in so masterly a manner the good and glorious
work he had undertaken.  He said it would be
the means of doing much good, and of benefit-
ing his young friends more than they were
aware of; that the gratitude of all good men,
and of the young people whom he had so much
benefited, would follow him through life, and
when grey hairs should his temples adorn he
could look back with pleasure upon the winter
of 1843 when he was engaged in promoting
the cause of benevolence, and preparing his
young friends for the glorious career which
awaited them."
	Ka.—I will repeat another extract from the
same article, on page 157:  "If the youth
throughout the land would follow this good
example, and form themselves into such so-
cieties, there would be much less sin, iniquity,


misery and degredation among the young
people than there is at the present day. There
would not be as many suffering poor, neither
would there be as much immorality among
the people; but, on the contrary, peace, good
order, happiness, cheerfulness and plenty
would reign in the land, the Lord would look
down from his holy habitation, and smile upon
us and bless us all."
	El.—The Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association was first organized in May,
1867, in the Lion House, by Eliza R. S.
Smith, under the supervision of President
Young, with the instruction that his daughters
should compose the first organization. It be-
ing entirely a new move, so far as acting in
organized capacity was concerned, she thought
it advisable to appoint more than two coun-
selors, but afterward they were reduced to
two.
	Rose.—Can any of you tell who the first
officers were?
	Eth.—I can, all but the treasurer; I could
not learn who held that position at first. And
they had no treasurer, as they had no use for
one at that time. Mrs. Ella Young Empy
was President; Mrs. Mary E. Young Croxall,
Miss Maria Young, now Mrs. Dougall, Miss
Phebe Young, now Mrs. Beattie. Miss Julia
Young, now Mrs. Burton, Miss Zina Young,
now Mrs. Williams, were counselors.
	Min.—The Central Board presiding over all
the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the world was or-
ganized June 19th, 1880, with Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, President; Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor,
Miss Mattie Horne, now Mrs. Tingey, coun-
selors; Miss Louie M. Wells, secretary; and Mrs.
Fanny Young Thatcher, treasurer.
	Rose.—What is the object of this as-
sociation?
	Ma.—The name of the Association signifies
its object—mutual improvement—in behavior,
order, punctuality, refinement; in short, we
should as children of the Latter-day Saints
improve in all things.
	Min.—Yes, we should improve all the time.
Every day we can make a little advancement
towards perfection, and then we will not any
more than be prepared for the trials that we
may be called to pass through.
	Ka.—I think we had better take up the
Primary Association. They are a very essen-
tial organization. There we take our first
lessons in a public capacity, in bearing testi-
mony, giving recitations, etc.
	Rose.—And we are taught many good and
useful lessons, which if we give heed to will
prepare us for future usefulness.
	El.—The first Primary Association was
organized in the autumn of 1878, in Farming-
ton, Davis Co., with Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers
President; and in Salt Lake City, with Mrs.
Louie Felt President. The one in Farmington
was partially organized August 11th, but was
not completed until after the one in Salt Lake
City, which was in the Eleventh Ward.
	Ma.—The Central Board was organized the
same day the others were, with Mrs. Louie
Felt, President; Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt and
Mrs. Clara C. Cannon, counselors; Mrs. Lillie
Freze, secretary; and Miss Minnie Felt, trea-
surer.
	All.—And now the Relief Society has on
hand over 40,000 bushels of grain laid up
against a time of famine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORY.

	Of our dear friend and sister Mary, daughter of John
F. and Elizabeth Snedaker, died June 21st 1885, of
diptheria. She was bom April 17th 1867, in Mill Creek,
where she lived and died, truly a Latter-day Saint, being
18 years, 2 months and 4 days old.
	Her nature was such that made her highly respected by all
who knew her. And we may say, in the best sense of the
word, that Mary was a superior young lady; possessing


that innate refinement, which gives sublimity to womanly
character; added to this were gentleness and genuine
kindness, which won for her a great circle of friends.
Her whole soul seemed to be wrapped up in the study of
music, thus bringing sunshine in all our gatherings. She
was an active member in our Sabbath School, and was
ever striving to improve those talents with which her
Maker had most generously endowed her. And as
such she will ever live as a bright spark in the memories of
all, both old and young.
	It seemed that our dear sister was too good for this earth.
That mighty and noble spirit was too pure to be long en-
cased in that mortal casket. A greater and more glorious
sphere awaited her.
	She was permitted to see angels once or twice before she
died, and also had the privilege of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. She retained consciousness un-
til the last, giving instructions as to her burial etc., besides
giving a great deal of good and beneficial advice.
	Though hard indeed to part with one so good and
kind, yet one great comfort to the parent is to know that
God has blessed them with such a beautiful and noble
daughter; and to know that by faithfulness to the Gospel,
they will meet her again, filled with all the light and in-
telligence possible.
	We extend our sympathies to the bereaved ones; for we,
too, have sorrowed, and know how to appreciate the tears
which flow, when we are called to part with those whose
affections are entwined around our hearts. But, in all
our trials and afflictions we should remember this: "God
knows best."
	"Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore, 
	Thoughts of her virtues, increase more and more,
	'Twill be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet on heaven’s bright shore, 
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more."
		N. S.


"Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 25, as follows:
	Mary B. Martin, New York City, Decorat-
ing paper and other materials with oil colors.
	Mary E. Northen,Lanier, Texas, Dress-chart.
	Minnie B. Tate, Johnstown, Ill., Cooking
utensil."


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
				 
	Agent for  RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Obstetric Class.
				
Dr. Romania B. Pratt
WILL COMMENCE HER	
Semi-Annual Class, Sept. 21,
In her large and well-appointed Office, in Godbe, 
Pitts & Co's Drug Store.
					
	Lecture at 4 p. m.
	Charts, Mannikin and all apparatus for teaching.
	As Electricity is a great adjuvant to the Healing
Art, and possessing one of the best Batteries, lessons on
its applications and uses in medicine will be given the
students. 
					
Tuition for Three Months,	$30.00.
Books, (Three)	13.50.
				
	A number of applications are usually received after 
the class has begun; it is earnestly hoped those desiring
to attend will be at the opening. 

For Sale at this Office.
					
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
					
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"	
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	      of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50	"

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865.
				
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
					  
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES,
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street. 

F. Auerback & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods	
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE. 

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
					
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23, '85.
				
   Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.
				
Tuition per Term,	$10.00.
Books,	13.00.
					
  Office and Residence, 34 Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

