VOL. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1886.	No. 19.


TWO.

Two little girls together played,
Together earth's fair scenes surveyed,
	Together ate and slept;
Together studied nature's looks,
Or read the same instructive books,
	Together laughed or wept.

Together culled the sweet wild flowers,
And walked and talked mid summer hours,
	Together sang and prayed;
Thus grew they up to womanhood,
And still together firmly stood,
	Both lived, nor either strayed.

But, oh! there came a time to part!
Two worthy men gained each a heart;
	Henceforth two pathways lie:
Sister you understand my rhymes,
You recollect scenes, places, times;
	Those girls were you and I.

In time each woman's heart received
The first great good her life achieved,
	Its first rare gift from heaven;
Plan'd they, as others may have done,
Two future pathways 'merged in one;
	One boy, one girl were given.

Alas! how meagre is the chance
For mortal wishes to advance,
	Unchecked by Providence!
Mortality's light veil He lifts,
Recalls those first, rare, precious gifts,
	And softly bears them hence.

Though parted, still together grieve
Two mother hearts, and both receive
	That consolation sure,
Which trust in the Eternal One,
Faith in the Father and the Son,
	Are potent to secure.

In realms of peace and love and light,
Two angel cherubs, fair and bright,
	Pure as immortal flowers,
Together walk and laugh and sing,
And wait their mothers' entering,
	Sister, those babes are ours.

		LULA.


WRITE TO ME VERY OFTEN.

Write to me very often,
	If you send me but a line,
For the ocean rolls between us,
	Yet your life seems linked to mine.
I am tarrying with strangers,
	But when your letters come,
My heart is big with rapture,
	For they speak of love and home.

Write to me very often,—
	My lone heart lingers so
For the balm your letters bring me,
	When my sad eyes overflow.
As I scan the kind epistle
	That meets my greatest need,
I see your loved face looking up
	In every line I read.

Write to me very often,
	Consoler that thou art!
Thy kind words fall like cooling dews
	Upon my burning heart.
They strengthen, they refresh me,
	Like pure, ambrosial wine,
And while I drink them in my soul
	Content and peace are mine.
Write to me very often,
	Thou art so far away,
Thy voice may not break on my ear
	For many a weary day.


But I'll see thee in my letters,
	And I'll think I hear thee speak,
And I'll feel, in fancy, while I read,
	Thy warm breath on my cheek.

So write to me very often,
	If you send me but a line,
For the ocean rolls between us,
	And your life seems linked to mine;
And e'en one line will tell me,
	With more than magic skill,
That, though I'm absent from thy side,
	I am remembered still.


[Column 1]

WHAT NEXT?

	The facility with which the anti-"Mormon"
demagogue changes his base, and as fast as one
pretext serving him as a breast-work is torn
away, hides himself behind another, rivals the
agility of the nocturnal flea, or the fickleness
of the color-changing chameleon. Illustra-
tions are, like Falstaff's reasons, "as plenty as
blackberries," but we need not pick from the
prolific bush more than one or two at the pre-
sent time.
	How often it has been asserted, by those
honestly or dishonestly opposed to the poly-
gamic principle of our religion, that if that
one obnoxious feature were only done away
and its practice should henceforth cease, all
hostility to "Mormonism" would vanish into
thin air, the oil of peace would be poured upon
the troubled waters of political and religious
strife in Utah, and the Millennial sun would
be almost ready to dawn upon this portion of
our war-weary and benighted planet.
	That many persons are sincere in this belief,
I doubt not, any more than I do that many
others are not so. Those who really believe it
are, for the most part, well meaning but super-
ficial thinkers, who have studied carelessly or
not at all the crimson-hued history of religious
persecution, particularly those chapters—des-
tined, thank heaven! to be among the closing
ones—relating to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	I need hardly refer in this connection, to the
unfounded charges, ridiculous as they were
numerous, preferred against the early Chris-
tains and cited by their merciless oppressors in
justification of their cruelty to that universally
despised and unpopular sect; nor give more
than a passing glimpse at the lurid scenes of
rapine and murder with which history re-
peated itself in the days of the expulsion of
the Saints from Missouri, when the pretense
put forth to palliate such horrors was not, as
some might suppose, the now terrible offense of
patriarchal marriage. No; "polygamy" was
not then the popular note to sound, the revela-
tion regarding it not having been given to the
Church. Hence, some other excuse had to be
invented, some other catch-word adopted, some
other cloak made to order to cover up the real
object of the murderous crusade against an in-
nocent people, "everywhere spoken evil of,"
whose appealed cause was admitted to be just
by the Executive of the nation, who in the
same breath acknowledged himself power-
less to interfere for their protection, or afford
for their past cruel wrongs the slightest re-
dress.
	And what, in those early days, was "Mor-
monism's" alleged offense, or more properly
speaking, the main accusation, since they have
ever been, like Abraham's posterity, innumer-
able? In brief this: that the Latter-day

[Column 2]

Saints, like the Saints of former days, claimed
to receive revelations from on High, and were
organized with Apostles and Bishops, etc., in
conformity with the ecclesiastical system of
government that prevailed in the ancient
Christian Church. These awful crimes excited
the jealous wrath of the priests of perverted
and apostate Christianity, and it was not a
difficult thing for these "holy men," who
"spake as they were moved upon" by the spirit
of Satan, to poison the minds of their pious,
flocks, and aided by scheming knaves and politi-
cal tricksters of whom little else could be ex-
pected, to create a sentiment so bitterly hostile
that nothing but the blood of innocence which
it shed could satiate it. These facts have
passed into history, not yet written in its ful-
ness, but some day to be thundered by impar-
tial justice from the house tops.
	But what do we next hear? Has the same
old pretext been used to extenuate all later
exhibitions of Christian hatred toward this
"peculiar people" since they left the confines of
civilization to build up and beautify an Eden
in the heart of the American desert? Not en-
tirely. The real cause remains, as ever, un-
changed; but the ostensible one has shifted,
veered and fluttered about like a weather-cock
in a wind storm. Polygamy, being published,
became immensely popular as a war cry, and
its imaginary horrors were sufficiently blood-
curdling, without "Apostles and Bishops," to suit
every purpose of the conspiring hypocrites
who create, in order to pander to and be paid
by, a mistaken public sentiment as wide-spread
as it is unwarrantable.
	This polygamic wire has been twanged till
it is almost ready to snap assunder from age
and prolonged use, and those whose business it
is to string the harp of slander and tune it to
the ever-varying popular pitch, have found it
necessary to look about once more for material
to meet the imminent popular demand for a
change. "Blood atonement" will hardly do,
for that has seen much service also, and like
"polygamy" is getting sadly out of tune.
There is something, however, that suits the
times "to a T," and, far from wonderful to tell,
it has already been stretched and played
upon. 
	And what is this newer bugaboo?—this Olym-
pus of popular dread—this towering mountain
of a nation's alarm that "singes its pate against
the burning zone," making the polygamic
"Ossa like a wart?" In sooth, "Church rule in
politics," an autocratic theocracy, imperium in
imperio, a "Mormon" empire in an American
republic, an "ecclesiastical right divine as
opposed to the ballots of a free people"—
and yards on yards of similar stuff, all
of which, summed up and simmered down,
might be put thus: a handful of relig-
ious worshippers, armed with implements
of labor, with their feet firmly planted on
the granite backbone of the American conti-
nent, leering down upon and threatening with
an avalanche of hymn books the peace, wel-
fare and existence of a shivering little group
of fifty-five millions of people.
	This then is the leading pretext of to-day;
the comet of ill-omen now sweeping and swish-
ing through the political heavens, with "poly-
gamy," "blood atonement" and all the other
little horrors following and serving as its tail.
But tell us, what has this new terror to stand
on? Is it utterly without foundation, like the
vast majority of its predecessors, or has it, like


some of the more notable ones, a shadow of
tangibility, which at first sight, but at first sight
only, seems almost as plausible as a skeleton's
visible, or a vagrant's imaginary means of sup-
port? Simply this and nothing more: the
"Mormons," like all true Bible believers, hold
that the God of heaven and Maker of the earth
intends ere long to pay a personal visit to this
planet, to take for a season the reins of govern-
ment into His own hands, establishing a reign
of universal peace and righteousness and re-
quiring all nations to acknowledge His sceptre.
They further believe that, as usual, He has
sent word on ahead, in order not to take the
world entirely unaware, and has commissioned
certain humble, God-fearing men to preach
the glad tidings to their fellow creatures and
prepare the way for His coming.
	This is the very head and front of "Mormon
treason, rebellion," and all the rest of the clap-
trap which continually salutes the tired eyes
and ears of a long-suffering public. It is the
government of God that these Christian priests
and politicians regard as a foreign power; it is
Jesus Christ whom they stigmatize as an inva-
der, and whose approach they are preparing to
repel with all the force and fury at their com-
mand. Who would have thought that the
parable of the Vineyard would find its applica-
tion in the nineteenth century, and "in the
land of the free and the home of the brave?"
Who would have supposed that in this profes-
sedly Christian nation, a Bible prophecy in re-
lation to the coming of the King of kings
would be used as a pretext to justify the sup-
pression of a people and religion whose only
crime is clinging to the hope of its literal ful-
filment? What next will be the scare-crow to
keep away honest investigation into the merits
of "Mormonism?" What next will afford a
temporary rampart for the conspirators who
are too cowardly to assail this much maligned
religion except from behind a barricade of
subterfuge, sophistry, misconstructions and
make-believes?
		ORSON F. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	I had known very little of Frances Swan
previous to our coming to Winter Quarters. I
had met her at the house of Sister Silvie Lyons,
when she made her home in Nauvoo, and un-
derstood her to be my father's wife. Through
report, some of our family had formed rather
an unfavorable opinion of her, but knew noth-
ing against her. She had borne father one
child, which died, I believe, before leaving
Nauvoo.
	Our intimate acquaintance began after the
pioneers had left. She was then living with
Sisters Presendia and Laura Kimball, and was
in the enjoyment of her religion, and the love
of God reigned in our midst to that extent
that it brought love and charity for one an-
other, and drove away every ill feeling that
had previously had place in our hearts, prov-
ing beyond doubt that we had found the true
path, and the only one that will take us into
the celestial kingdom.
	Frances had been educated in Scotland, and
was a women of no ordinary talent. She was
capable of doing a great amount of good, but
when out from under the influence of the good
spirit, she was subject to the greatest tempta-
tions, and at times the powers of darkness
seemed to have perfect control over her, which
made her society anything but desirable. We
understand that the greater light one receives,
the greater are the temptations afterwards,

[Column 2]

and the more liable one is to fall away, and
this was the fate of Frances.
	She was warned of it in dreams, and after
coming to the valley she had the following one,
which she told to members of the family, at
which time she professed to be strong in the
faith:
	She dreamed that she was walking with
father's wives, my mother leading the way, up
a steep mountain, till they came to a narrow
place like a tunnel, which looked impossible
for any one to go through, but she said they
all went through but herself, and she refused,
saying, "I had rather go round, if it is farther,
than to go through that place," although
mother plead with her, reaching out her hands,
as she besought her to come, as that was the
only way, and she was distressed at the thought
of leaving her there alone. She also assured
her of their safety, and how glad they were
that they had passed through; "though," said
she, "it crushed me till I could hear my bones
snap; but you are smaller, Frances, and it
could not hurt you as it did me." But it was
all to no avail; she lacked the faith and hu-
mility necessary to endure what the Saints of
God are required to to make them fit for the
kingdom of heaven. A few years from that
date saw her in California, the wife of a man
younger than herself, one whom she had known
in Nauvoo previous to becoming my father's
wife. It was quite a surprise to her ac-
quaintances at Salt Lake, that she should have
taken up with the man she had once con-
sidered so inferior to the one whom she had
chosen to be her leader through time and all
eternity. I know that during her sojourn with
his family he sought her welfare and
happiness, in connection with all the rest, as
faithfully as a man could do. When she
would be laboring under temptation, he would
talk and reason with her like a kind, consider-
ate father, as he was, and this is the course he
took with his numerous family, and which he
was noted for among those who knew him best,
until his manifold cares and responsibilities,
increasing with his years, and the increasing
toil and anxiety for the welfare of this people,
in connection with his brethren, left him little
time to listen, or to make a balm to heal every
wound, real or fancied, or to untie every knot-
ty question that could better have been done
by those who were most concerned.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Anthony estimates that twenty-six
members of the U. S. Senate are in favor of
woman suffrage.
	Miss Louisa Alcott has had her features per-
petuated in a fine profile bas-relief in bronze
by M. W. Rickertson, of Boston.
	Miss Ada C. Sweet made a witty speech in
behalf of old maids before the Sorosis Club
the other day. The Chicago Inter-Ocean says,
"If all 'old maids' were like Miss Sweet they
would need no defense."
	A statue of Queen Victoria, by the Princess
Louise, has been placed in the front of Lich-
field Cathedral. Her son, the Duke of Edin-
burgh, recently gave a violin performance at
a public concert in London.
	The fate of successful patent medicine men
is not always happy. Ayer and Helmbold be-
came insane, and now we hear that Perry
Davis, of "Pain Killer" fame, is a lunatic in a
Philadelphia almshouse.—Medical Record.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg recently visited
her birthplace, the town of Sumter, S. C., and 
gave a concert there. On the arrival of the
cars the members of her company arose in
their seats and disembarked, singing "Home

[Column 2]

Again," in compliment to the birthplace of
Miss Kellogg.
	Governor Seymour's aversion to display ex-
tended to the erection of showy monuments.
Acting in accord with his views, he selected
and paid for his monument some ten years ago.
It lies where he found it, in the town of Rem-
sen, Oneida County, and consists of a boulder
of native granite, 5 1/2 feet long, 2 feet wide, and
1 1/4 feet thick.
	Mrs. Evelyn T. Underhill, of New York
City, lately received an imperative summons
to report herself for jury duty, or show cause
why she should be exempt. Mrs. Underhill
replied that she knew of no reason why she
should be exempt, and was entirely willing to
serve. Whereupon the Portland Argus says
"How unlike a man!"
	Mme. Patti had a curious experience recent-
ly of the enthusiasm of Roumanian women.
She had just finished one of her most effective
arias in the opera house of Bucharest, when a
number of women suddenly rose to their feet
and threw white pigeons with ribbons on their
necks upon the stage, until the singer was sur-
rounded by the fluttering birds.
	In accordance with a resolution of the
American Woman Suffrage Association, adopt-
ed at its last annual meeting, to co-operate
with the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion in the effort to secure a sixteenth amend-
ment, a memorial to Congress, signed by the
officers of the American Association, asking
for a Constitutional amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex, was forwarded
this week to Senator George F. Hoar.
	Senator Edmunds has introduced a new
Mormon bill. With all the terrible sufferings
of his people close at hand, he can see no
service for humanity nearer than Utah! This
bill repeals woman suffrage. Thus, in a state
of society claimed to be specially hostile to
woman, he robs her of her best weapon of de-
fense, the ballot. The bill declares that
children born of other than the lawful wife
shall not inherit their father's property. This
is devilish, and when we say it we want to ask
old Nick's pardon. It outrages humanity and
justice. What can be more mean and cruel
than to cast a stigma upon an innocent child
and debar it the rights of inheritance. For
shame, Senator Edmunds, to turn your back
thus upon the progress of your age. You
seek to right one wrong by the commission of
another far more atrocious and far-reaching
than the plural marriage of Utah—the degrada-
tion of woman and the stamping of the brand
of disgrace and poverty upon innocent child-
hood!—Our Country, Dec. 28, 1885.
	The passage of the Edmunds bill, to destroy
the Mormon church, by a vote of 38 to 7 is
one of the most disgraceful acts of American
legislation.
	That bill abolishes woman suffrage, denies
the rights of inheritance to innocent children
and appoints trustees to seize the estates of the
churches. It is the offspring of avarice, bigotry
and lust aiming to remove all the safeguards
of law, that they may prey upon the lands,
property and women of a defenseless people.
	The border influence, which gets up Indian
wars that it may thrive on plunder is behind
this bill. A few senile and bloodless bigots
who love persecution, really believe in it.
Most, however, who voted for it were driven
by the terrorism skillfully managed by Ed-
munds. They were afraid to be called Mor-
mons if they did not vote down liberty under
the pretext of extirpating polygamy. The
same class would seize the property of Cath-
olics to-morrow and turn the Sisters of Charity
over to the mob, if they dared!—Our Country,
Jan. 16, 1886.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I'M GOING HOME.

LINES WRITTEN ON RETURNING TO UTAH AFTER A
VISIT IN THE EAST, SEPTEMBER, 1885.

BY M. W TANNER.

I'm going home across the trackless prairie,
	O'er which we wandered many years ago;
Then we were sad and footsore, worn and weary,
	Bending our steps t' escape the wanton foe.

I mark the plains o'er which our feeble footsteps
	Trod sore and long upon the burning sands,
And almost fancy I can see the waymarks
	Made by those homeless, emigrating bands.

The plains reach out to meet the far horizon,
	As bleak and bare and arid as of old;
And fading trails, where wandered once the bison,
	Still dimly show along the grassy mold.

The skies are blue, with here and there a cloudlet,
	The sunshine glimmers on the stunted grass,
But not a tree nor any flowering leaflet
	To greet our vision as we quickly pass.

I sit and think of years so far behind us,
	Far in the long dim regions of the past,
And of the footprints left that oft remind us
	Of life's dim changes that are fleeting fast.

Man's careless steps have even now invaded
	These lonely plains and barren solitudes;
And from his mind the memories dim have faded,
	Yet o'er my soul the silent vision broods.

I seem to see the little band of wanderers,
	Driven from home, from kindred ties and friends,
Chilled by the frosts; or fainting in the sunshine,
	As slowly on their toilsome journey wends.

I seem to hear once more the wild coyote,
	Whose dismal walling rent the midnight air—
The little bands, as darkness closes around them,
	Bending their knees to say their evening prayers.

I often wonder where their steps have wandered,
	And where their homes, and what their fate has been;
And many times in silence I have pondered
	In silent thought o'er long forgotten scenes.

We meet, we part, and often in that parting
	We carry with us scenes of bygone days,
And many times we wist not of the smarting,
	As all have gone their own divided ways.

But oft the mind to the far past reverting
	Finds in the heart a dim and fading thought,
And memory's page some silent hour diverting,
	With early friends and transient scenes are fraught.


[Column 1]

	"No weapon that is formed against thee shall
prosper, and every tongue that shall rise
against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the servants of the
Lord, and their righteousness is of me; saith the
Lord".—Isaiah, chapter 54, last verse.
	"What shall one then answer the messengers
of the nation? That the Lord hath founded
Zion, and the poor of His people shall trust in
her.—Isaiah, chapter 14, last verse."

	In my experience through life I have ob-
served in my own mind, and no doubt others
have noted the same, that under trials from
which we see no outlet, the mind acquires a
feeling of prescience and intuition of coming
events, and earnestly desires to entertain the
feeling and give return to it in all laudable
and innocent researches.
	Many years ago I had a dear old nurse, who,
though not an educated woman according to
the schools, was of a deep meditative mind;
was a great reader of the Scriptures, they be-
ing her whole library. She had a sweet,
spiritual mind, and a devout soul, without one
grain of Methodistical cant or hypocrisy of
any sort. I do not think she was of any par-
ticular church, though she occasionally at-
tended the Independent Methodist place of
worship; she would not have dared to receive

[Column 2]

the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, but, like
one of old, "stood afar off" admiring with
deep and holy reverence those who were so
privileged feeling. "Oh! how blessed are those
who can partake, but it is not for me." Some
of my readers may probably never have met
such a character, and hence they will be quite
unable to comprehend the beauty and extreme
piety of such a woman; indeed, she was by no
means a common character; she was one whom
the Savior would have loved, and, like Mary,
she would have followed Him even to the
cross.
	She read in the Epistles that on points of
doctrine on which she desired to be informed,
she was to "ask her husband at home;"
but alas! her husband might, with all propriety
have sat at her feet and been taught by her!
So, like many others, she "kept the even tenor
of her way," and did the best she could to
work out her salvation, and that, she realized,
seemed but very little towards making "her
calling and election sure," and I often realized
when she returned from meeting that her soul
had not been fed; I could even feel that she
was smiling "in her sleeve" at his nonsensical
talk, but she was too reverent and innately
pious to give vent to any criticisms. I would
sometimes read the Bible to her, and when fin-
ished, she would heave a sigh and say, in her
own peculiar tone, "Ah! what a fine thing it is
to be able to read and understand what you
read."
	One day we were somewhat in trouble, and
we were puzzled to know what we should do,
and she then said, "Well, when I feel that I
want to know if the Lord has a word for me
I take my Bible and ask Him to give me some
light through the action I am going to perform;
I then take a long needle, and I run it into
where I know the Psalms are, or into the New
Testament, and I have many times been struck
at the answers I have received."
	Upon that hint I have often taken the same
course, and, like my dear good nurse, have re-
ceived comfort and support.
	Once in a most remarkable manner I was in
much affliction through enemies; I believe the
only wicked enemies I ever had—(in Zion, too.)
My soul was indeed in deep waters; I almost
thought that I should be overwhelmed. I one
day left my work, shut all the doors, being
alone in the house, and knelt down and poured
out my whole heart to the Lord. I arose from
my knees without feeling much refreshed, and
again took up my needle work, and as I did so
my eyes fell on my little prayer book laying on
the table; it contained the Psalms of David; in
an instant my nurse came mentally before me,
and I remembered her sweet, childlike method
to get comfort when in trouble. I took up the
book, thrust in the needle, and lo! it rested on
the first verse of the thirty-seventh Psalm. I
read and re-read till I came to the tenth verse,
when I involuntarily threw up my hands and
said aloud, "Lord, this is revelation!" I
trembled as though an angel stood before me;
I realized it was the voice of God to me; it
struck every chord that had been drawn to
their utmost tension in my wounded soul, and
the vibration was joy, peace, and a conviction
that God was with me. Were I to live a
thousand years I should never forget the feel-
ings of that hour! I have lived to see every
word literally fulfilled of that glorious psalm;
the tenth and last verse remarkably so. I re-
quest my readers to read this psalm at once, for
they will see with me its potency. Many, many
times have I derived comfort and instruction
from this most simple process, and been sent
on my way rejoicing.
	A few days ago, feeling sad under the heavy
cloud we are under by our unjust oppressors,
the simple process came to my mind; I took
my little book and my needle, asking the Lord
to give me a word upon the present persecu-

[Column 3]

tions, and the needle rested upon the first verse
I have given at the top of this article. I tried
the second time, and the second verse was
given, and I could not resist the impulse of
giving it to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	"Let none smile and say with unjust judges,
It is superstition. The Lord hideth himself
from the self-righteous, and revealeth His
words to the meek and lowly who put their
trust in Him, and labor day by day to shew
faith by their works."
	I could give many more equally startling
answers to prayers, received by the same sim-
ple process. Remember, it is to the word of
God we look for aid, and from nothing lower
or inferior. Why has this holy book, the old-
est in the world, stood the test and the wonder-
ful vicissitudes it has passed through, these
many centuries, and been the stay and sheet-
anchor of so many generations, with its mighty
principles, its divine ethics, its consoling doc-
trines, its stupendous revelations and more than
I have language to elaborate. Why should
not the Christian have faith in it as the word
of God? not a dead, or abstract faith, but the
faith that will and can and does "remove
mountains" every day to the eye and under-
standing of those who have a living faith in
Him, such as the wise child has in its earthly
parent, knowing that even if he sees that re-
proof is needed, that it is in love and for his
advancement in wisdom, knowledge and un-
derstanding. Let us, then, be meek and sim-
ple and confiding as the child, for the Savior
said such was the type of the kingdom of hea-
ven. How simple were the means which the
Savior used in some of his greatest and grand-
est miracles; it is the prayerful, the humble
and the faithful spirit that by simple means
calls down the divine aid and needed blessing
in the often trying hour, when "man's extrem-
ity is God's opportunity." The faith of the
Latter-day Saints is the faith "once delivered
to the Saints," and they realize that God is
with them, that Christ is their Captain, that
their religion is "the everlasting Gospel" that
He instituted, and of which He said "the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it."
		HANNAH T. KING.


We are governed, to a great extent, by the
company we keep. If our associates are in-
temperate, licentious, or immoral, we cannot
be pure; and the wretch must be lost, indeed,
who comes in contact with the innocent and
godly, unawed by their presence. Thus it is
with our reading. We should shun bad books
as we would bad company. Our reading al-
ways leaves an impression on our minds, and
if it does not, the time spent in reading is
worse than lost.
	In house-furnishing a little money and a
good deal of taste go much farther than a
little taste and a good deal of money. The
first rule, and a most important one, is to go
slowly. Learn what you want, and, having
decided this question, never accept anything
else until all possible expedients are exhausted
for procuring it. Do without until the mo-
ment of absolute necessity rather than accept
unsatisfactory substitutes. More houses are
spoiled because their owners fill them with tem-
porary fittings which they afterwards have not
the means and the enterprise to get rid of than
by any other cause. For people of small in-
comes the only safe rule is to get only the ab-
solutely indispensable articles at first, adding
to the store from time to time one really good
article after another as opportunities offer. In
this way surprisingly good results may be ob-
tained with a cost so gradual as not to be ma-
terially felt; and, if nothing is purchased
which is not really good, whatever is bought
holds its own with later acquisitions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1886.


[Column 1]

﻿THE LADIES' MASS MEETING.

"MORMON" WOMEN MEET, SPEAK AND RESOLVE.

	For some time past a movement has been on
foot to give the women of Utah an opportunity of
expressing in some public and emphatic manner,
their feelings regarding the indignities and the
sufferings they are made to endure in the present
crusade against the Mormon people. In the
whole history of America there cannot be found
a parallel to the infamous methods by which the
enforcement of special and oppressive legislation
against the Saints has and is sought to be accom-
plished. Not only have the men, who for
obeying a principle of their religion are declared
to be violators of law, been made to suffer the ex-
traordinary and unhallowed proceedings inaugu-
rated against them under its form and in its name;
but their wives, their children and their relatives
have been hauled before inquisitorial grand juries,
plied with shamefully indecent questions,
threatened with punishment for contempt if they
refused to answer, and in some cases actually im-
prisoned for such refusal. Defenseless women
have at the risk of their lives been dragged before
courts or juries, frequently escorted thither by
wretches whose touch they would regard as pollu-
tion. Even the sacred relation of husband and
wife and the exemption from testifying one against
the other has been trampled upon, and each day
sees new insults and greater indignities heaped
upon us.
	Under these circumstances it was natural that
a spontaneous feeling should manifest itself to
give expression to our sentiments. The culmina-
tion of this desire was found in the crowded and
enthusiastic gathering of representative women
which filled the Salt Lake Theatre, Saturday after-
noon, March the 6th. Everywhere was manifested
a deep, subdued emotion, and heartfelt sincerity
characterized every utterance. A tolerably com-
plete report of the proceedings, which we are
able to furnish, shows nothing which can be con-
strued as defiance, but everything which savors of
courage, patriotism and true womanhood.
	The 16th Ward brass band played choice selec-
tions while the people were being seated, and at the
appointed hour, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, in a few
appropriate remarks, called the meeting to order.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt nominated Mrs. M. I.
Horne to preside, and the lady received the unani-
mous endorsement of the vast assemblage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs. Priscilla Staines and
Mrs. Pitchforth were unanimously elected vice-
presidents.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard was nominated for
secretary, and Miss Nellie Colebrook and Mrs.
Cornelia Clayton as assistant secretaries. These
ladies were unanimously elected.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young was elected chaplain.
	After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
was offered by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing by
the choir.

[Column 2]

	Prest. M. I. Horne expressed the regrets of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith at not being able to be
present, but stated that she was heart and soul in
the movement.
	Prest. Horne said it was with feelings of sorrow
that she contemplated the occasion which called
forth the necessity for a protest against the wrongs
heaped upon "Mormon" men and women, be-
cause of their obedience to the law of God. The
nation could with more consistency legislate
against the Catholics for their belief in celibacy
than against the "Mormons" for obeying the first
great commandment, "Be fruitful and multiply."
It was a duty of the Saints to appeal to rulers, and
if disregarded God would avenge them. Presi-
dent Van Buren had told the Prophet Joseph his
cause was just, but the nation could do nothing for
his people, and the nation had been vexed ever
since. Men were now sent to jail because they
would not promise to renounce their wives and
children, and the women of the Latter-day Saints
could not longer submit in peace to this, and to
the insults offered their sisters in the courts. They
could not longer go on without protesting against
continued adverse legislation. They could not
come down to the level of those who degraded
women, but would continue in the service of God,
and trust in Him.
	The following committee on resolutions was ap-
pointed on motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt: Dr. R. B.
Pratt, Mrs. Fanny Thatcher, Mrs. Edna Smith, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. Tanner, of Provo, and
Mrs. H. C. Brown, of Ogden.
	MRS. PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL
was called and spoke as follows:
MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	I stand before you a native born citizen of the
United States. My grandfather fought in the
revolutionary war to establish a free government
on this continent, and my father fought in the
war of 1812 to secure and perpetuate a free gov-
ernment and to protect the rights and liberties of
the citizens of the republic. I, their descendant,
now stand up before this assembly to protest
against the oppression of those who would take
rom us the rights and liberties which our fathers
risked their lives to obtain. What would our
fathers say, the founders of this republic, if they
could rise from their graves and see the glorious
Constitution which they framed and bequeathed
to all future generations, as the palladium of liber-
ty, overridden and downtrodden by demagogues
and torn to fragments by the schemes of corrupt
men, whose object is to oppress and injure the
helpless. 
	We came out from the United States to this
desert and mountainous country, that we might
worship God according to the dictates of our con-
sciences.
	We had broken no laws of God or man. We
had committed no crimes, but we were driven
from our homes by angry mobs because we de-
sired to worship God in the way that had been re-
vealed to us. We made our homes in these
mountains and have lived here loyal and law-abid-
ing citizens. 
	Now, nearly at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury we find the horrors of the inquisition revived
from our destruction—free-born, pure-minded, and
delicate women are brought before a cruel and
corrupt court, by lewd and debauched deputies;
insulted and brow-beaten by base and malicious
officials, and if in obedience to their pure and
noble womanhood, they refuse to answer the in-
decent questions, they are threatened with im-
prisoument in the Utah Penitentiary, where mur-
derers and horse thieves are incarcerated, there to
pay the penalty of contempt of court.
	Oh, liberty and justice, where is their dwelling
place!
	I feel it is time for the ladies of Zion to arise.

[Column 3]

Our cause is just. We have broken no law of
God or man, but we know by exporience what the
present crusade means. We will be true to God
and live lives of purity. 
	Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton read the following
address by
	MRS. H. C. BROWN.
DEAR FRIENDS:
	We have met to-day to unite our voices in pro-
testing against the cruel enforcement of special
legislative enactments brought to bear upon us as a
people, and we appeal to every honest mind and
heart to use their influence to stay the shameful
proceedings by which pretended courts of justice
are converted into courts of inquisition. That
honest, virtuous, Christian women may no longer
be subjected to insult and abuse, nor have every
feeling of parental and conjugal love, and every
sense of religious duty, outraged and trampled
upon.
	We are here, not as Latter-day Saints, but as
American citizens—members of that great com-
mon wealth which our noble grandsires fought and
bled to establish—legal heirs to those rights and
privileges bequeathed by that heaven-inspired
document—the Constitution of these United
States. Yes, legal heirs, yet illegally, unconstitu-
tionally deprived of that dearest, most cherished
of all rights—freedom to worship God according
to the dictates of our own consciences.
	And this within the limits of a government
founded upod religious liberty. This in a nation
whose legislators point proudly to the brave Pil-
grim Fathers and mothers as their ancestors—
and then turn to crush their fellow creatures—de-
scendents of the same noble parentage.
	O consistency, where art thou fled? O Justice,
surely thy face must hide itself in shame, when
loyal men and women are denied the right of
citizenship, because, forsooth, they . would serve
God and fear Him rather than man. 
	Once again, we protest against the unjust de-
signs and unlawful enactments of unscrupulous
men, blinded by selfish ambition to all the best in-
terests of our government as well as to their own
eternal welfare.
	And we would say to them and to the world—
that, rather than forego one principle of our holy
religion—rather than yield the right to act upon
our own convictions of duty, we would, if need
be, endure exile or imprisonment, or whatever
our Heavenly Father may see fit in His wisdom to
require of us; and, like the Saints of former days,
suffer rather than accept deliverance, that we may
inherit a more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory.
	   DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON
said the wrongs against which those assembled
now protested were such as would have put to
blush the civilization of two centuries ago. While
the statue of liberty was being erected women
were here sent to jail for no crime, and the purest
and best women in the country now raised their
voice against the outrage. Sixteen years ago the
women of Utah were granted the right of suffrage,
and it was whispered that they would break the
bands which were supposed to bind them. The
women of Utah had proven true and had never
cast an unrighteous ballot. They voted for men
who were pure, honorable and upright. The gov-
ernment now seemed to think it premature that
the women were allowed to vote, and were en-
deavoring to deprive them of that right, not be-
cause they had committed crime, but because they
believed in the revelations of God. It was urged
that the women in Utah were coerced. No mem-
ber of Congress would dare witness what was here 
to-day and reiterate such a falsehood. "Priestly
dictation" was prated about, but nothing was said
of the Catholics, who voted as their priest directed.
This was the battle-field between truth and error.


[Column 1]
The Saints were loyal citizens,  industrious and
honest, but they were being oppressed because
they belonged to an unpopular class. The Presi-
dent of the United States asked for fairness for
the Chinese, but had never asked justice fo r the
"Mormons." Under the nation's law, the seducer
and destroyer had no fear of a deputy, as "birds
of a feather flocked together." But honorable
"Mormons" were dogged and watched by "spot-
ters," and these acts were approved by Americans.
She had felt that America was an asylum for all
—but the "Mormons." They were to-day in the
same position as the American patriots 126 years 
ago. England oppressed the patriots, and refused
redress; they took their liberty by force of arms.
Their descendents are now the oppressors, and
the "Mormons" the oppressed. And now these
chains of tyranny were to be welded closer by
taking from the women of Utah, the ballot, which
they had never used but in the promotion of
honor, virtue, and good to all. May the day never
come when they will be deprived of the ballot.
The nation should call a halt and remember vox
populi, vox Dei. There will come a day when
those engaged in this crusade will bitterly repent
their treatment of the "Mormons," which is un-
justifiable. The "Mormons," would adhere to
their religion, which was from God. Test oaths
would not move them. The enemies of "Mor-
monism" desired to sweep it from the face of the
earth; but the work was God's, and they could
not do it. 
	The committee on resolutions reported the fol-
lowing, which were unanimously adopted:

PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE WOMEN
	OF UTAH IN MASS MEETING ASSEMBLED:

	Whereas, The rights and liberties of women are
placed in jeopardy by the present cruel and inhu-
man proceedings in the Utah courts, and in the
contemplated measure in Congress to deprive the
women voters in Utah of the elective franchise;
and,
	Whereas, Womanhood is outraged by the com-
pulsion used in the courts of Utah to force
mothers on pain of imprisonment to disclose their
personal condition and that of their friends in re-
lation to anticipated maternity, and to give informa-
tion as to the fathers of their children; and,
	Whereas, These violations of decency  have now
reached the length of compelling legal wives to
testify against their husbands without their con-
sent, in violation both of written statutes and the
provisions of the common law, therefore, be it
	Resolved, By the women of Utah in mass meet-
ing assembled, that the suffrage, originally con-
ferred upon us as a political privilege, has become
a vested right by possession and usage for fifteen
years, and that we protest against being deprived
of that right without process of law, and for no
other reason than that we do not vote to suit our
political opponents. 
	Resolved, That we emphatically deny the charge
that we vote otherwise that according to our own
free choice, and point to the fact that the ballot is
absolutely secret in Utah as proof that we are pro-
tected in voting for whom and what we choose
with perfect liberty.
	Resolved, That as no wife of a polygamist, legal
or plural, is permitted to vote under the laws of
the United States to deprive non-polygamous
women of the suffrage, is high-hand oppression
for which no valid excuse can be offered.
	Resolved, That the questions concerning their 
personal condition, the relationship they bear to
men marked down as victims to special law, and
the paternity of their born and unborn children
which have been put to women before grand juries
and in open courts in Utah, are an insult to pure
womanhood, an outrage upon the senstitive feel-
ings of our sex and a disgrace to officers and
judges who have propounded and enforced them.
	Reslolved, That we honor those noble women who,
standing upon their rights and refusing to reply
to improper and insulting questions such as no
true man nor any court with any regard for pro-
priety would compel them to answer, have gone
to prison and suffered punishment without crime,
rather than betray the most sacred confidence and 
yield to the brutal mandates of a little brief
authority.
	Resolved, That the action of the district Attor-
ney and the Chief Jnstice of Utah in compelling
a lawful wife to testify for the prosecution in a

[Column 2]
criminal case involving the liberty of her hus-
band and in face of her own earnest protest, is a
violation of laws which those officials have sworn
to uphold, is contrary to precedent and usage for
many centuries, and is an invasion of family
rights and of that union between husband and
wife which both law and religion have held sacred
from time immemorial.
	Resolved, That we express our profound ap-
preciation of the moral courage exhibited by
Senators Call, Morgan, Teller, Brown and others,
and also by Mrs. Belva H. Lockwood, who in
the face of almost overwhelming prejudice, have
defended the constitutional rights of the people
of Utah.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt thanks
to the ladies of the Woman Suffrage Association
assembled in Boston, and unite in praying that
God may speed the day when both men and 
women shall shake from their shoulders the yoke
of tryranny.
	Resolved, That we call upon the wives and
mothers of the United States to come to our help
in resisting these encroachments upon our liber-
ties and these outrages upon our peaceful homes
and family relations, and that a committee be
appointed at this meeting to memoralize the
President and Congress of the United States in
relation to our wrongs, and to take all necessary
measures to present our views and feelings to the
contrary.
	To be coutinued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A SELECTION from Mrs. Augusta Joyce Croch-
eron's "Wild Flowers of Deseret," was recited in
one of the high schools of Hamilton Co., O.
	THE present issue of the EXPONENT is for
unavoidable reasons several days late. We are
confident, however, that our readers will excuse
the delay when they recognize our desire to ob-
tain as much of the Mass Meeting proceedings as
possible.
	The Legislative Assembly of Utah, which has
nearly finished the allotted term of its biennial
session, has so far received for its labor nothing
except executive disapproval of every bill on
which the Governor has deigned to make a reply
at all; and in nearly every case he has coupled
his veto with railing accusation against and de-
liberate insult to the people and their representa-
tives. What a burlesque on American institutions
that one stupid official, because enveloped in the
mantle of executive authority, can defeat the will
of a whole community!


THE Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. will
please forward reports as quickly as possible to
Louie M. Wells, EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
		ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Prest.
		LOUIE M. WELLS, Sec.

	THE Relief Society conference of this Stake will
be held on Thursday, March 18th, 1886, in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, commencing at
10 o'clock a.m. A full attendance is particularly
requested.
		M. I. HORNE, Prest.,
		E. HOWARD, Sec.


[Column 1]

OUR CHILDREN.

	I felt sorry for a young mother, and her chubby
urchin, too, whom I happened to see passing
through the trying ordeal of getting the child's
face washed. The little one was in open rebellion,
kicking and screaming, while his mother scrubbed
away at his face and ears with great diligence, at
the same time scolding and threatening him in an
excited and exciting manner.
	"It is such a trouble to wash children," she re-
marked to me.
	"Yes," I replied, "but I see no necessity for so
much trouble as you seem to have. Mine do not
give me half so much, though I presume they
would if I managed them as you do yours."

[Column 2]

	"Why, then, how do you manage yours? Do
please tell me," she said imploringly.
	"To be frank, then," I answered, "let me first
tell you how I think you mismanage yours. You
go to work on his face and ears as though you
were scrubbing a floor or polishing a brass bucket.
Do you not suppose it hurts him very much? It
would me."
	"Well, but I must get the dirt off from him
while I'm about it," she said with a faint smile.
	"It does not require such rubbing and digging
as that, though," I responded. "If mine were so
very dirty I would put water on and let them soak
awhile, till the dirt would come off easily."
	"But I can't spend time for that," she said.
	"It would take but little if any more of your
time, and not nearly so much of your strength as
the struggle you have just been having; besides,
it would be teaching your child to be more gentle,
and more willing to yield to your wishes," I ex-
plained. And then I told her how, when bathing
my little ones, I tried to give my mind to it, and
make the task as agreeable as possible, both to
them and myself, never missing an opportunity for
instructing them on any principle that might be
brought up in our conversation, and wound up by
relating a pleasing Saturday morning's experience,
which occurred with myself and my little boys a
few weeks since.
	The young mother was delighted with my story,
which I gave somewhat in the form of a dialogue,
and being a great admirer of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, she insisted that I ought to write it for
that paper, that it might be a benefit to many
others like herself; and so, acting upon her sug-
gestion, here it is:

SATURDAY MORNING.
	Willie. (in the bath) "I don't want my head
washed, mother."
	Mother. "Oh! yes; your head needs to be
clean as well as the rest of your body. You can't
think so well if it is not. Don't you know that
when your eyes are not washed clean you can't
see so well as you can when they are?"
	Willie. "Yes, ma'am."
	Mother. "Well, when your head is not washed
and clean, you cannot think so well, either."
	Willie, (wonderingly). "Do we think with our
hair?"
	Mother, (laughingly). "No! In thinking we
use our brains, and the brain lies just under the
scalp, which is the covering to the head. The
hair does not sense anything. You know when
your hair is cut you do not feel it."
	Willie. "I don't feel it when my hair is cut, but
when it is pulled it hurts."
	Mother. "It hurts you, but it is your head that
feels the hurt, not your hair. I have rubbed your
head well, now you must keep your eyes shut
while I wash off the soap."
	Willie. "I'll keep my eyes shut and my mouth,
too."
	Mother. "That's right. Now I'll dip the cloth
in cold water, and rince your head and neck, so
you will not take cold."
	Willie. "All right; I'll be brave and not hol-
low."
	Mother. "That's a good boy. I'll wipe your
head and hair as dry as I can with a warm towel,
especially about your ears, and you must not go
out into the wintry air until they are quite dry.
There, now my little boys are all bathed, and are
clean and sweet."
	Lee. "Now won't you please read to us from
the Instructor mother?"
	Mother. "Yes, I can read to you while I nurse
the baby."
	Lee (handing the paper). "Please read about
Caesar and the lion."
	Mother reads, as requested, without interruption,
until she finishes the sentence, "He was descend-
ed from a noble line of ancestry"——


Lee. "What does that mean, mother?"
	Mother. "It means that his forefathers were
rich and great."
	Willie (in surprise). "Did he have four
fathers?"
	Mother (laughing). "Not four in number, Willie.
When we speak of a man's forefathers, we mean
his grandfathers and his great grandfathers and
their fathers, and so on, back through generations
that have lived before him."
	Willie. "Oh! yes; I see what you mean now!"
	Mother. "Think you can remember it?"
	Willie. "I'll try to."
	Lee. "Please read on now, mother."
	Mother. "I will finish this story, and then
baby must go in the cradle and I must go to work."
		LULA.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


CHEERFULNESS.

	Who would not be beloved and beautiful? I
believe I can truthfully say there are none who
have not this desire. Some say the desire to
please is selfish; so it is, and we are all selfish.
Some who have not good judgment go too far, and
try to please all. This is indeed a fault. To be
agreeable and pleasant we do not necessarily
have to yield to others and should never do so,
when we feel that we are in the right; but in little
things it is often a positive pleasure to yield. But
how often have bad habits been formed by giving
way because we wish to be agreeable; how often
do we hear it said, "Yes, I took a drink because I
wanted to be agreeable; then the boys all make
light of you if you refuse," and it is so with most
bad habits. Who could admire one who would go
to such extremes to "be agreeable?" No one;
the person is certainly weak, and although per-
haps good natured and pleasant, you cannot ad-
mire him as one who knows right from wrong, and
uses his own good judgment instead of being led
by others.
	We all know right from wrong. God has blessed
us with this knowledge, and even those who deny
Him have that knowledge within their breast, and
there it remains in spite of their every effort to
destroy it. This is a beautiful world that God has
given us, and we all have our own little part to
perform. Shall we be cheerful, bright and pleas-
ant, and scatter joy and love about us, forget our
little sorrows and perplexities to wipe away tears
from some beautiful eyes and cheer some sad
hearts that have been burdened with cares? Oh,
if we would all try, what a beautiful world it would
be! God would smile upon us, and angels watch
over us. Then we would be indeed beloved and
beautiful.
	How blessed is a home with a sweet, cheerful
mother. 'Tis hard sometimes for anxious, nervous
mothers to be cheerful, but there is not much
gained by being cross and gloomy. Each unkind
word makes us feel more nervous and tired, and
after spoken what harsh, hard feelings they leave
in the breast. All thrive in a cheerful atmosphere.
How tired we all feel after a long, cold winter, and
how blissful are the first bright days of sunshine.
Just as the buds expand and grow under the
bright sunlight, do our souls grow and become
beautiful by the sunshine of cheerfulness.
		GIPSY.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	49 SABINA ST. Nottingham,
		Feb. 4th, 1886.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In visiting the various branches composing
the Nottingham Conference, I find an excel-
lent spirit prevailing amongst the Saints gener-
ally, and often do we hear kind words of
sympathy for our brethren and sisters who
are undergoing persecution in the land of Zion.


I sometimes have the pleasure of meeting with
the sisters in their Relief Society meetings,
there being three organizations in this confer-
ence. The members are actively and ener-
getically engaged in doing good. The society
at New Brimsley is the oldest, with Sister
Merab Wharmby as President, organized by
Elder James Eardly, Nov. 23rd, 1884. The
Mansfield Society, organized by Elder James
Eardly, May 17th, 1885, with Sister Caroline
Cooper, President, and the Nottingham So-
ciety, organized by Elder M. L. Pratt, with
Sister Lydia Burrows, President.
	We have six Sunday Schools, four Mutual
Improvement Associations, and all are in
good working order. I have been telling the
sisters about your valuable paper, the EXPON-
ENT—what excellent reading is found in its
columns, and how ably it represents the inter-
ests of the women of Utah. I am sure if
times were not so hard, and so many out of
work here, that there would be several sub-
scribers for your paper.
	The people who are Saints here are very,
very poor, and are praying for the time to
come when they may be delivered from old
Babylon, realizing more every day that this is
not the place for Latter-day Saints to live.
	Wishing a happy and prosperous year to the
EXPONENT, and ever praying for the welfare
of the daughters of Zion, I am,
	Your brother in the Gospel,
		M. L. PRATT.


WORDS OF CHEER FROM A
FRIEND.

DEAR LITTLE EXPONENT:
	Let us have a moment's chat together. One
of your friends says that she fears I do not
scan your pages with careful interest." Now,
dear little friend, we know that she is mistaken,
do we not? We know that every word is read,
even the death notices, although the person be
a stranger, I read the tributes of love, and
sometimes imagine myself at the funerals
mingling my tears of sympathy with the be-
reaved.
	Yes, every word of the little paper is read,
and when I come across an article of special
interest in an old paper, I enjoy the pleasure
of again reading it. The Christian Standard
comes to me regularly—I get the Chautauquan
once a month, Brights Journal, Commercial
Gazette, Evening Post, etc. all of which are
something put aside for a season, but the EX-
PONENT never—it is read and then carefully
filed away. All matters concerning the Mor-
mons have a great interest for me, and I am
laughingly called a "Mormon" among my
friends. Perhaps I fail to appreciate the full
extent of your anxieties and feelings, but I
cannot but feel a sympathy for you, and sin-
cerely wish that you could live in undisturbed
peace. Let us hope that good will come out
of these evil days.
	Sincerely yours,
		EMILY SCOTT.
	Ohio, Feb. 19th, 1886.


[Column 1]

BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, AND "MOR-
MON" MOTHERS.

	In a recent interview Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, who is described as the "Queen of the
American Bar," is reported as saying some
good words for the much-abused "Mormons."
After relating how she came to be nominated
by the woman's rights people for the Presiden-
cy, she was asked concerning certain utterances
attributed to her by the Salt Lake Tribune,
which the lady denied, but went on to make
remarks which are reported as follows:

	"I have no objections to saying now that I

[Column 2]

do think that, as a rule, the Mormons are
ahead of the Gentiles in morals. In the first
place, a good Mormon does not drink, smoke,
chew, nor even use coffee and tea, nor frequent
saloons or other vile resorts." As to the Mor-
mon women, Mrs. Lockwood sturdily main-
tained that they are fully up to the standard
of intelligence and progressiveness; that each
is the head of her own house, governs her own
children, and is far more independent of men
than the Gentile women. Her opinion of the
Edmunds bill was asked. "I think it unjust
and revolutionary in the extreme," was the an-
swer. "Do not misunderstand me. I am a
thorough monogamist by education and belief,
and I think it must require a strong conviction
of religious duty on the part of any woman to
submit to the polygamous relation. But I do
not recognize the right of our government,
after allowing the system thirty-five years' ex-
istence, and permitting George Q. Cannon to
sit in Congress for years, to now threaten to
disfranchise both men and women, and confis-
cate their property, if they will not renounce
the relations of a lifetime which they conscien-
tiously believe to be an essential part of their
religious system. I believe in the suppression
of polygamy by law, but not through means
which are retroactive and subversive of Ameri-
can liberty."
	"Mrs. Lockwood struck at another of the
theories of the anti-Mormons, in saying that
the Mormons' children were the most beauti-
ful she had ever seen, and bright as a dollar.
"Every Mormon child is made welcome when
it enters the world; and as the Mormon
mother is taught that her rank in heaven will
depend on the number and quality of the
children she rears in this life, a perfect mother-
hood is developed. "I believe in criticising
and fighting polygamy on a true indictment,"
said the lady, "but the false tales that are cir-
culated around the country under the head of
'The Mormon Horror,' etc., are detestably
unfair."
	Mrs. Lockwood, like many other folks, is
somewhat mistaken about the "Mormon"
mothers being taught that "their rank in hea-
ven will depend upon the number and quality
of the children they rear in this life," but she
is right in the statement that children are "wel-
come" to the "Mormons," and are not des-
troyed, either before or after birth, by the mur-
derous methods that are common among very
pious women who figure in the anti-"Mormon"
movement, and who have no idea of the mar-
riage relation above lust without the responsi-
bilities that belong to true wifehood and
maternity. Mrs. Lockwood is a woman of
moral courage as well as great legal ability,
and is not afraid to say what she thinks to any-
one.
	Children well trained in the fear of God
and the practice of virtue, are an honor to
their mothers in this world, and will shine as
jewels in their crown and add much to their
glory, happiness and exaltation in the eternal
world, where all will be valued for what they
are, and shine with their own excellence or be
dimmed with their own shame.


AMEND THE UTAH BILL. 

EDITORS WOMAN'S JOURNAL: 
	All suffragists in States which have mem-
bers of the House of Representatives on the
Committee on Territories are earnestly reques-
ted to write at once and urge them to use their
utmost influence against the disfranchisement
of Utah women. That Committee consists 
of: 
	William H. Hill, Ohio; William M. Springer, 
Illinois; J. Thomas Spriggs, New York; 
Charles E. Boyle, Pennsylvania; George T. 
Barnes, Georgia; Thomas W. Sadler, Alabama;


William H. Perry, South Carolina; William
Damson, Missouri; Isaac S. Struble, Iowa;
Charles S. Baker, New York; William C.
Cooper, Ohio; Binger Herman, Oregon; George
D. Symes, Colorado; Anthony Joseph, New
Mexico.
	These gentlemen's postoffice address is,
"House of Representatives, Washington,
D. C."
	Suffragists in other States will please write
Mr. Hill, the chairman of the Committee, at
the above address, and thus enable the Com-
mittee to see how wide and strong is the opposi-
tion to the proposed wrong.
	As the Boston Record objects to my sugges-
tion that we should oppose Senator Edmunds's
re-election next year, let me say no one ob-
jects to him because of his opinions. We do
so because of his acts. It is one thing to hold
an opinion; quite another to force others to act
on that opinion. Mr. Edmunds's opinion in
favor of continuing the existing disfranchise-
ment of women might be overlooked; his dis-
graceful suggestion that women cannot be
voters without degrading themselves might be
pardoned; his dogged efforts to prevent women
from earning an honest living at the bar (on
which issue we beat him two to one in the U.
S. Senate) might be forgiven; but his effort to
take the suffrage away from non-polygamous
women who have had the legal right for half
a generation, and in whom that right has be-
come vested, is unpardonable. Mr. Edmunds,
as a lawyer, knows that this vested right can-
not be rightfully taken away, and that if this
is done, it will be a sheer act of despotism, as
well as the infliction of an odious penalty, dis-
franchisement, on citizens who have committed
no crime.
	Let me add that, during a long residence in
Washington, in which I saw considerable of
Mr. Edmunds, I did not discover the high
qualities claimed for him.
		HAMILTON WILLCOX.
	New York.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISS CLEVELAND'S RECEPTION. 

	SOME OF ITS PECULIARITIES NOTED BY A
	WIDEAWAKE CORRESPONDENT. 

	Miss Cleveland held her first from 3 to 4
o'clock afternoon receptions on Tuesday. These 
are perfectly informal so far as aught at the
White House can lack stateliness. One of the 
doors from the vestibule into the red corridor 
stands open, with a man in attendance. Cards
are left in the vestibule for record, and the
visitor is announced at the door of the Red
Parlor. This room with its furnishings lends
itself delightfully to cosy tete-a-tete. The
sumptuous gold and crimson upholsteries, the
glow from the open coal fire, the soft light
coming through partially drawn curtains, and
low chandeliers, with the fragrance of flowers, 
make the ensemble deliciously sensuous. Miss
Cleveland greets each comer with an easy 
grace, and with that remarkable smile extends
her hand. Her dress is of black silk, demi-
train, with berthe and panels of heavy jet pas-
sementerie, narrow frills of lace in neck and
at her hands, and at her throat a single crisp,
half-blown pink tea rose with its leaves
nestled. 
	Miss Cleveland sits down with the latest ar-
rival and, like ordinary mortals, talks about
the weather. "I make it a religious duty," 
she said, "to spend some time out of doors
every day. Yes, I ride; but after the gates
are closed, between the daylight and the dark-
ness, I take a walk about the grounds. I en-
joy deeply the beauty of the sky and the glory 
of the sunsets we have here and the views
from the windows. I enjoyed the New Year
reception very much. I like my life here, be-
cause it gives me the opportunity to meet so


many interesting people. I was a little tired
on last Friday, as we stood until a very few
minutes before the close of the reception. The
ladies would not be excused while I remained;
so, as I knew they had yet to stand several
hours at their own houses in the afternoon, I
withdrew with them at 2 o'clock. Our duties
here are those of no sinecure. The housekeep-
ing duties are exacting, and show no inclina-
tion toward a state of perfection in machinery
in which the household might run itself."
	Thus Miss Cleveland, pleasantly changing
auditors constantly and saying just the inter-
esting thing to each person. "I hope to meet
you again," to Lieutenant and Mrs. Winthrop,
who were saying good-by before leaving for
San Francisco. "The President received a
quantity of sheet music, which I have not had
time to examine. I will send it to you if you
think it would be of interest," she said to Prof.
Sousa, of the Marine Band, who called to pay
his respects.
	"I have not read the book sufficiently to
talk about its point," she said of a recent
publication, "but I think the author gets at the
hearts of the people."
	In speaking of her brother Miss Cleveland
says "The President." She introduces each
one who comes in to everybody else, and, this
hour at the White House being her own institu-
tion, is likely to prove the most charming of
Miss Cleveland's social life to all concerned.


DON'T WORRY.

	"She has always magnified little troubles,"
was said of one suffering the torments of acute
melancholia. What a warning in those few
words, emphasized by looking into the wretched,
worn and weary face of her who had once been
called "the prettiest girl in town."
	She magnified little troubles! What serious
troubles they have at last become, threatening
reason if not life itself! Her sickness, like
that of many another sufferer, is cumulative
and largely self-imposed. She began life by
taking deeply to heart every little vexatious
thing, allowing disappointments, even in trifles,
to sadden and depress her, giving way to "the
blues" and fretting over the veriest nothings,
until in the course of the fast-flying years they
have piled themselves into a huge mountain
of difficulties which rest an immovable load
upon her own heart.
	Socrates said how truly, that we each carry
about a daemon, and the Scriptural record of
demoniacal possession is no fable. How do we
live with our daemon, that is the question. Is
it our "divinity" or our "evil spirit?" Do we
assert our intelligence and hold him to his
place of service, controlling ourselves even
when harassed almost beyond endurance; or
do we yield to each petty trial and annoyance,
fret over every insignificant trifle, and worry
until the habit becomes a second nature?

"This way madness lies."

	Think of it at every fretful, discontented
word. Think of it when you feel worried, and
shrink from forming the habit as from contact
with a deadly serpent. Cultivate the grace of
taking life easy. "To bear is to conquer our
fate." We have but a day to live at a time.
Who cannot easily be gracious and forbear-
ing and gentle for a single day. At least we
can live uncomplainingly. The Mexican
mother whispers over the cradle of her new
born babe, "Child, thou art born to suffer, en-
dure and hold thy peace."
	If we take life in tragic seriousness, magnify-
ing the little troubles, how hard and unbeauti-
ful, and oftentimes bitter we make it for our-
selves and others; but if on the contrary we
bring to each day's experience a determination
to be serene, to be cheerful and courageous, to
be self-forgetting and helpful to others, life be-


comes a beautiful blessing to us and all men,
for "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine,
but grief drieth the bones."


TO PRESERVE RECIPES.

	"What is the best way of keeping recipes so
that one does not have to hunt through masses
of newspaper clippings?" asks a correspon-
dent.
	A blank book bound in stiff boards or mus-
lin, and divided into sections, is the best and
most convenient form. An index is written
thus: "Soup," "sauces," "fish," "meat," "vege-
tables," "game," "dessert," "cakes," "bread,"
"beverages," "sundries." These main divis-
ions may be subdivided as desired. Allot a
certain number of pages to each main division,
giving the proper heading in the body of the
book. As each recipe is tried, copy it neatly
into the book under its proper heading. The
printed recipe could be pasted in the book, but
it does not look so neat as fair writing. Index
each recipe under its proper heading in the
general index, and there will be no trouble in
finding it. Under "sundries" write any practi-
cal suggestions with regard to household mat-
ters. Such a book is of the greatest assistance
to a housekeeper, for it presents in succinct
form her actual experience, and enables her to
prepare her weekly bill of fare with the great-
est ease.—Louisville Courier-Journal.


Miss Alice C. Fletcher addressed the Melrose
Women's Club, lately on the Indian question.
Miss Fletcher went among the Indians to
prosecute her archaeological studies, and re-
turns to the States fired with the same apostolic
ardor which made Helen Jackson write "Ra-
mona" and "A Century of Dishonor." Miss
Fletcher's lecture converted a good many peo-
ple to a fuller belief in the wrongs of the
Indians, and the bad faith of government
officials in their dealing with them.
	Recently a monument has been erected in
Annaberg, Saxony, to the memory of Frau
Barbara Uttman, in recognition of the great
service rendered to the working women of
Saxony more than three hundred years ago,
when great distress was prevailing on account
of lack of work. Barbara Uttman made a
journey to Brussels and learned lace-making,
making a specialty of point-lace; then return-
ing to Annaberg she instructed her fellow-
workwomen in this art, and so relieved a great
deal of suffering. The monument is a drink-
ing fountain surmounted by a statue of Mrs.
Uttman in the German dress of the middle of
the sixteenth century. This is about the first
public recognition of woman's worth that has
been made in Germany.
	A very interesting discovery has been made
in England, in the crypt of Winchester Cathe-
dral, in which excavations are being carried on
by the direction of Dr. Kitchen, the dean, to
restore the crypts to their ancient proportions
by removing modern accumulations of earth.
In a mass of masonry just under the groined
arch of the fifteen-century Lady Chapel a
leaden coffin, enclosing a wooden one, was
found, and in the latter was the skeleton of
Bishop Peter Courtenay, this fact being estab-
lished by the coat of Arms at the foot of the
cross cast on the coffin lid. This Bishop, in
the troubles of Richard the Third's reign, was
a Lancastrian and an exile with his brother in
the cause of Henry Tudor; after the battle of
Bosworth they returned, and the Bishop was
subsequently translated from Oxford to Win-
chester. He died in 1492. He gave the great
bell "Peter" to Exeter Cathedral (since recast),
and he was an ancester of the present Earl of
Devon. The restoration of the great Norman
crypts of the Cathedral is exciting great inter-
est among the antiquarians.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


All accumulation, whether of money, or
knowledge, or experience, may be thus tested.
If it is simply saved, hoarded, and counted for
itself, it is of little worth; but, if it develops
continually into something higher and nobler,
if it be willing to lose itself, if need be, in
what it is able to bring forth, if it be the
source of power, character, happiness, and life,
it is honorable and valuable.
	All things are engaged in writing their his-
tory. The planet goes attended by its shadow;
the rolling rock leaves scratches on the moun-
tain; the river its channel in the soil; the ani-
mal its bones in the stratum; the fern and leaf
their modest epitaph in the coal; the falling
drop makes its impress in the sand or the
stone; not a footstep in the snow or along the
ground but prints in characters more or less
lasting, the map of its march; every act of the
man inscribes itself on the memory of his fel-
lows and in his own manners and face. The
air is full of sounds, the sky of tokens; the
ground is memoranda or signatures, and every
object is covered with hints that speak to the
intelligent.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A square sofa pillow of black satin is effective, powdered
with white daisies wrought in filo floss. Finish the edge of
the cushion with large yellow beads, and decorate one
corner with a large yellow satin bow.
	Sew a coarse flannel over the bowl of a broken goblet.
Wet the flannel, and sprinkle it with as much flax seed, or
canary seed, as will stick. Set this in a glass dish of water
in a warm room. As the water soaks into the flannel, add
more. In two weeks you will have a most beautiful center
ornament for the table.
	Pears.—Small pears, which show no tendency to ripen,
may be converted into a delicious dessert dish for winter
months by stewing them for an hour or two, according to
their size, in syrup flavored with cloves and cinnamon.
The syrup is made of three pounds of sugar to a pint and
a half of water. The pears must be peeled and left whole,
and there should be hardly sufficient syrup to cover them,
as the juice from the pears will add to the syrup. Let them
boil quickly, and cover the jars well from the air.
	It is almost impossible to prevent a little shrinkage of
flannels in washing, unless the articles are dried on forms.
Prepare hot suds before hand, and agitate the articles in it
without rubbing; then squeeze, not wring out, and dry
quickly. The patent clothes-wringers are an improvement
upon hand-labor, as, without injury to the fabric, they
squeeze out the water so thoroughly that the article dries
in considerably less time than it would do after the mos
thorough hand-wringing.
	Madeira Cake.—Mix three heaped teaspoonfuls of
baking-powder in one pound of fine flour, rub in a quarter
of a pound of butter or lard; mix in a quarter of a pound
of castor sugar, a little ground carraway seed, cinnamon,
grated lemon-peel, or any flavor preferred, and, if liked,
add some chopped currants. When ready to bake, stir in
as quickly as possible two well-beaten eggs mixed with a
half a pint of milk; put into buttered tins and bake in a
hot oven. This ought to make four cakes about the size of
shilling pound-cakes.
	To Preserve Fruit and Flowers.—Fruit and flowers may
be preserved from decay and fading by immersing them in
a solution of gum arabic water two or three times, waiting
a sufficient time between each insertion to allow the gum to
dry. By this process the surface of the fruit is covered
with a thin coat of gum, which in entirely impervious to
the air, and thus prevents the decay of the fruit ro the
withering of the flowers. Roses thus preserved have all
the beauty of freshly plucked ones, though they had been
plucked several months. It is reliable, and something all
may try.
	Test for Alum in Bread.—The best rough test for alum
in bread is the logwood test. The process, as applied to
bread is very simple. The tincture of logwood and solu-
tion of carbonate of ammonia are used. A teaspoonful of
each is mixed with a wineglassful of water, and in this a
piece of the crumb of bread is soaked for about five


minutes. The bread is then removed and dried at a gentle
heat. If no alum be present, the bread dries to a dirty
brown color; if a little be present, the bread dries to at
lavendar color; if much alum be present, the bread dries to
a dark-blue color.
	Plum-Pudding.—The one secret of plum-pudding is
known to few—it is long boiling. If plum-pudding is half
boiled and allowed to get cold, no amount of after-boiling
can repair the damage; it will remain sodden and unwhole-
some to the end. When well boiled at first, it can be
made hot through, and be as good as ever. For a small
pudding, nine or ten hours', for a large one, twelve or
fourteen hours', fast boiling, without stopping, will ensure a
good pudding, even with no very rich materials. Without
this precaution, one made of the best materials will prove
a failure.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Fillmore City Jan. 28th, 1886, of membranous
croup, Wells R. son of Thomas C. and Alice M. Callister,
aged two years, one month and twenty-eight days.
		COM.

	ED, In Fillmore City, Feb. 14th, 1886, of membran
ous croup, John Franklin, son of John and Seraph Jack-
son, aged four years, four months and seventeen days.

	DIED, in Manti City, Sanpete County, Feb. 14th, 1886,
of a complication of diseases, Matilda Sophie Schramm
Alder, born September 10th, 1834, at Calio, Kingdom of
Wurtemberg, Germany. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by her brother, Elder
Charles C. Shramm, May 16th, 1863; immigratad to Utah
in 1864, and was married to John Alder March 4th, 1865.
Sister Alder was an exemplary, kind and good-hearted wife
and mother. After her husband's return from a mission to
Switzerland, she was called, in connection with him, to
labor in the St. George Temple, remaining there some
nine months. She was a faithful member of the Relief
Society, and lived and died faithful to her covenants, with
the hope of a glorious resurrection. She leaves a husband
and three children, relatives and many friends to mourn her
departure.
		ANNA KELLER, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, The members of the Third Ward Relief Society of
Ogden, Utah, are with regret compelled to inform you of
the death of our beloved sister, Dinah Mary White, who
departed this life Jan. 28th, 1886, of typhoid fever, after
twenty-one days' illness, at her residence on Three Mile
Creek, Box Elder Co. She died firm in the faith, without
pain, conscious to the last, attended by her husband and
many loving friends. She was the daughter of John and
Mary Williams; was born July 19th, 1841, at Dunlan,
Flintshire, North Wales, and was married to Barnard
White March 7th, 1869. She had no children of her own,
but tenderly raised and cared for two families of motherless
children, who will honor and bless her memory.
	She was chosen President of the Third Ward Relief So-
ciety, Jan. 2nd, 1879, and held that office till change of
residence made it necessary for her to resign, still remain-
ing a member till her death. Appropriate resolutions of
respect were unanimously adopted by the Society.
		LUCRETIA B. FARR, President,
		MARY A. WEST,
		THERESA MARIOTT, Counselors.


[Column 1]
F.  Auerbach & Bro.﻿
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[pointing hand icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing hand icon] Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[text to the left of the image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 	
[text to the right of the image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years. 
[text below the image] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.	

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF  
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS,  ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. Eldredge, Spt.

Special to the Ladies

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes	
		112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

