[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: ONEIDA STAKE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held at Gentile
Valley, June 10th, 1894.
	Our company met at Mink Creek, June
9th, consisting of Sister Adeline Barber
President of the Cache Valley Relief Society,
Sister Elizabeth Fox, President of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, her two counselors
Mary Hawks and D. E. Dudley; Miss
Lillie Dudley and Elder Joshua Hawks of
Franklin. We held a meeting at Mink
Creek at 2 o’clock President Christina
Keller presiding. Bishop Rasmunson and
Counselors were also present. The spirit
of peace was richly enjoyed and called forth
much good instructions from each speaker.
	After the close of tbe meeting we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing over hills and
through hollows on a mountainous road
decked on either side with beautiful
flowers of every hue and color, by green
grass and wild fruit trees hanging full of
fruit just forming into shape crossing run-
ning streams of water which went creeping
under the great trees and bushes hurrying
along to join the river below which swollen
far beyond its usual bounds—covered
meadows and in some places grain. We
reached Thatcher ward just as the sun was
setting, and were kindly received by Bishop
Pond and wife.
	At 10 o’clock Sunday morning we repair-
ed to the meeting house, (which was set
upon a hill with a splendid view of the
valley) and held the morning session of bur.
Conference, President Julia Pond presid-


[Column 1]
ing. After the usual exercises the
minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved.
	President Pond gave an excellent report
of their society. President Hale reported
the Mound Valley ward society. Presi-
dent Fox spoke of the goodness of God to
his chosen people. Said we were organized
into a Relief Society by revelation for our
own good and exhorted the sistess to at-
tend to every known duty; spoke of read-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine 
and Covenants in their meetings and many
other things
	Counselor M. Hawks spoke of the mis-
sion of mothers—their duty to their
children, of her two sons who had just re-
turned from the Islands of the sea after
having performed honorable missions and
learned to speak the two foreign languages,
also spoke of the power of prayer, etc.
	Counselor D. E. Dudly gave timely in-
structions to the secretaries. Said, "Order
is the keystone of organization” and it was
necessary that our records should be writ-
ten correctly with good black ink, every
thing with place and date. Roll to be
called with proper date also all of mem-
bers recorded with date. All members
moving away should be given a recommend
and their removal recorded, so we may be
able to refer to it at any future time and
get any incident that might be needed. If
we are to be judged by the books 
how necessary that our good works should be
recorded, etc.
	President A. Barber spoke of the planting
of mulberries and raising of silk, of pre-
paring for a time of famine and want by
laying by a supply of wheat, needles and
pins &c. and by raising our own cocoons
and making our own thread as we could
very easily if we would commence now.
Spoke of the blessed privileges we can en-
joy of laboring in the Holy Temples for the
redemption of our dead relatives; of the
sweet spirit of peace which pervades the
temple and testified to the goodness of God
towards her during her sojourn here upon
the earth. She had been so greatly blessed
that she had the work done for seven hun-
dred of her dead relatives.
	Elder Joshua Hawks followed with many 
good and appropriate remarks too numerous
to mention. Bishop Pond felt to appreciate
the visit of the sisters and knew what they
had said was the word of the Lord unto 
those who were present.
	After dinner we returned over the river
according to previous arrangement and held
afternoon session at Mound Valley Ward
where we met Bishop Bennett and Counse-
lors and also Brother Bennett’s aged mother.
Bishop Pond and wife Solomon Hale Jun.
and wife and many others accompanied us
to Mound Valley.
	Meeting commenced at 3 o’clock, Presi-
dent Eliza Hale presiding. The singing
by the choir was much enjoyed. All were
united in such a way as to unite the hearts
of all, and the words of comfort and in-
struction flowed from each speaker in an
easy fluent stream. The new meeting
aouse is not finished but is substantially
built of brick and is so near completion
that they can meet comfortably in it while
it is warm. After meeting we partook of a 
bounteous repast at President Eliza Hale’s
and returned to Thatcher Ward and spent a
most enjoyable evening with Bishop Pond
hnd family, in their beautiful home. His 
new house is of modern style of architec-
ture both convenient and handsome.

[Column 2]
We started for Chesterfield Monday
morning at 6 o’clock, the air was cold and
raw and the wind blew continuously into our
faces which made it very disagreeable for
some of the sisters who began to feel weary
as the weather had been cold and frosty
from the first. All of the early crops had
suffered greatly from cold. At Bancroft
we stopped an hour to feed teams and eat a 
lunch. There we saw an immense amount
of wool sacked and piled ready to ship
East to be manufactured into clothing and
this again to be returned to sell to us again,
which is really too bad when we have so
much need of its being manufactured at
home and thereby give employment to the
many who need employment in our midst.
	We reached Chesterfield at 12 o’clock—
held a meeting at 2 o’clock, President Hig-
ginson presiding; after the usual opening
exercises, much good instruction similar to
our previous meeting was given. Bishop
Tollman was glad the sisters had not for-
gotten them and asked the blessings of God
to attend us on our journey. Here they
have a large commodious brick meeting
house well finished and furnished by the
labor of their own hands. The brick was
burned and also the lime by members of 
their ward. The seats were made by local
mechanics. The whole inside surface,
walls included, is artistically painted by a
local member in an original design.
	After partaking of the hospitality of
Bishop Tollman and Sister Call for the
night we started for Dempsie at 8 o’clock
Tuesday morning. The roads were quite
muddy for a while caused by the rain fall of
the previous day. We traveled on briskly
for a couple of hours and came to Dempsie
Creek quite a large stream of water flow-
ing through the land; it furnishes water
for the new farms which have lately been 
taken and the land has but recently been
cut off from the Indian Reservation and
will soon be surveyed and in market. 
Farther on we came to a canyon where the
Portneuff River runs between two high
mountains—roaring and rushing over great
cliffs of Lava rock for miles down the can-
yon, tall pine trees grow so near the dug-
way you could almost put forth your
hand and pluck the cones which cover the
entire surface of some of them.
	These lines were forcibly brought to
mind by beholding them
		Woodman spare that tree
		Touch not a single bough.
	But leave it stand as a monument of
nature in its grandeur planted by Omnipo-
tent hand. Here we beheld for the first
time water that would eventually reach and
help to form the Pacific Ocean.

Praise ye the Lord! All ye moorlands and
	mountains
	Praise him alone all ye ever green hills,
Glory to God! Shout the bright flowing fountains
	Till all the earth with your melody fills.

Woodland and meadow flowers
Bloom of the summer hours
	Bend to the wind with your anthem of praise,
Sprays of the waterfall
Chant ye a coralal
	Here at the feet of the ancient of days.
	We gazed with admiration and wonder
at wild and awful scenery of nature and
tried to imagine how great had been the
power that had upheaved the beds of earth
and rock—could it be possible that we were
gazing at the result of the destruction the
three dark days that our Saviour laid in the
tomb at Jerusalem, and the wicked were

[Column 3]
destroyed on this continent and the face of
nature was so changed, or did this upheav-
ing take place in the days of Peleg, when
the earth was divided.
	We traveled along a dug-way around the
mountain side, far above the river bed,
passed two large canals which were filled
with water to be used by the new settlers
in this vicinity.
After leaving the canyon we came sud-
denly upon Brother and Sister Boice who
were anxiously looking for us and had a 
sumptuous dinner waiting for us; which
we partook of with a relish, enjoying at the
same time a lively chat with old acquaint-
ances.
	At 2 o’clock we repaired to the meeting
house where we met a band of young sis-
ters newly organized in a new land.
President Ida Boice presiding. The Bishop
was not present but Brother Pierce his
counselor was present. The sisters ex-
horted all to be faithful and gave general
instruction concerning Relief Society work.
How to keep the records correctly, to get
them a piece of land while the country is
new so they could make permanent im-
provements and become independent in
this matter. Asked the brethren to be
liberal and assist their wives. Thought it
would be an excellent idea for the sisters to
take a sack in hand after threshing was
done and say to their husbands, "I want
you to pay me for cooking the same as you
have the rest of your hands, and then I
will be prepared to lay up a little wheat and
thereby do my duty as a member of the
Relief Society, and they would not have to
give their husband’s grain but let him have
the privilege of donating all he desires to
do in his own name.”
President Boice gave a good report of the
labors both statistical and financial. They
had a roll of Exponents on the table
which was commendable—showed they
were seeking from the proper source infor-
mation and wisdom. We must not forget
to say we had a nice bundle of salmon
trout presented to us by Sister Fanny Wil-
son which had been caught in the Portneuff
River and which we later enjoyed to the
extent of our ability. At the close of this
meeting we continued our journey ten
miles to Mc. Cammon. At 7.30 we held a
meeting conjointly with Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, Presi-
dent Althea M. Lewis presiding, also
Luella Lish president of the Young Ladies
Association was present. After the usual
opening exercises the young ladies rendered
a programme as follows. A lecture on the
redemption of the dead, a duet, a recitation
and correspondence, all of which was done
in an excellent manner.
	Then much timely instruction and coun-
sel was given by the visiting company.
	Elder Norton bore a strong testimony to
the truth and told incidents of interest of
the early days of Utah. We were all
hospitably entertained for the night by
Brother and Sister Norton.
	This brother, Alanson Norton is one of
Utah's oldest settlers and has passed
through many of the persecutions of the 
early rise of the church. He operated the
first carding factory in Utah—at Mill Creek,
he also set in motion the spinning machine
and power loom in the Sugar House ward
for President Brigham Young. He also
built the woolen factory in Brigham City in
1871, and went East to Massachusetts and
bought the machinery—set it up and put it


[Column 1]
in operation and ran the business until
others learned to operate it.
	At the time he went East to buy the
machinery he carried $7.000 in a belt made
for the purpose, on his person. The money
was entrusted to him by Apostle Lorenzo 
Snow without a receipt or security and also
an order for credit if he should need it; he
is 80 years old, the father of 21 children,
100 grand children and great grand child-
ren; he can read without glasses and do a
man’s work. Seven of his children are
resettled on good homes near him. He is
Presiding Elder of McCammon branch and
is now superintending the building of a
new meeting house.
	We left McCammon Wednesday morning
at 8 o’clock for Garden City, where we met
with the Relief Society at 10 o’clock with a
good representation the local President pre-
siding. This Society was doing well as re-
ported by the President. Similar instruc-
tions were given as at the previous meet-
ings. Bishop Capell testified to the good-
ness of God and appreciated the visit of the
sisters. After dinner we proceeded to
Nine-Mile, and held our eighth meeting at
2’clock, President Coffin presiding. Sister
Coffin was bowed down with grief on ac-
count of the death of her husband which
happened the week before.
	The instructions given were much the
same as had been given at previous meetings
delivered in a spicy manner under the in- 
fluence of the Spirit of God. Their Dis-
trict School was still in session and judging
from the blackboard work left from the
daily exercise they are blest with a com-
petent teacher We were kindly provided
for by the two Sister Coffins for the night.
	On the morning of 14th, we continued
our journey to Clifton and held our ninth 
and final meeting with a house well filled,
President D. E. Dudley presiding. We
felt to appreciate the efforts of their new
choir. Bishop Gayner and his two coun-
selors were present on the stand. President
D. E. Dudley having been called to act as a
counselor in the stake she was released
and Sister Lucy A. Howell was called and
set apart to take her place as president of
the Clifton Relief Society. President A. 
Barker urged all to labor for the redemption
of their dead friends, told them how
to plant mulberry trees and raise silk and
help to be self sustaining. She said she
was not well when she started but she felt
blessed in her labors; although it had been
very cold she believed it had done her
good. Counselor Hawks spoke of the
goodness of God in leading us out of
Babylon and establishing us in the moun-
tains while the judgments of God should
pass over the nations and of the signs of
the times. President Fox spoke in praise
of the Relief Society branches she had
visited and felt to thank the Lord for the
Gospel, and all the blessings attached there-
to, felt to do her duty and exhort every
sister under her jurisdiction to do the same.
She felt that our visit had been appreciated
by the kind reception we had received from
all we had met. She did not think hard
times had found their way up North judg-
ing from the good things that were ever
present where we were entertained. She
felt, to leave a mother’s blessing with all.
Counselor D. E. Dudley gave a humorous
report of our journey in a brief way.
Elder Joshua Hawks continued the report
speaking of the spreading abroad of our
 sons and daughters in this goodly land,
making homes, building canals, meeting

[Column 2]
houses, organizing into wards, Relief Society
Associations according to the plan of the
Gospel, and felt all things were working
on slowly and steadily but surely. Zion is
spreading out her borders, subduing the
desert and the kingdom of God will be
duly established. The little stone cut out
of the mountain without hands was surely
rolling forth and will eventually fill the
whole earth. He felt to bless the young
people and the old, begged of them to be
humble and obedient that they might be
useful in any place they might be called to
act.
	Bishop Garner felt well and thanked all
for their visit and good instruction and en-
couragement. After the closing exercises
preparations were made to go home to
Franklin. We separated, feeling greatly
blessed and instructed by our short mission
during which we had enjoyed so richly the
spirit which enlighteneth the soul of man.
	ELIZABETH FOX, President.
	MARY HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro-tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

