[Mission to Moapa — Part of the Mormon Epic by Caroline Eyring Miner]

Mission to Moapa—Part of the Mormon Epic Caroline Eyring Miner ik seems quite clear to the traveler who drives through Bunkerville, Nevada, and other towns between St. George, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada, that the oasis in the desert which is now the Moapa Stake of Zion could only have been established through the.
Efforts of pioneers dedicated to a mission. The Virgin, Moapa, and Las Vegas Valleys, which make up the stake, are surrounded by scorching desert, and, if I have read aright the journals and diaries of the early pioneers of this area, their communities were established in spite of almost unbelievable hardships and privations. When President Young was establishing the great Mormon empire, he called the saints on missions to the various places where he desired colonies to be made. It is common information that one place to which the saints dreaded most to be called was the Muddy, where the garden towns of Moapa, Overton, and Glendale are now located. The region was described as "situated ninety miles beyond St.
George in a blistering, alkali desert."
This forbidding region was avoided even by the Indians, and the first white men who traversed a part of the present State of Utah in 1776, passed across the great stone wilderness east and north of the "Muddy" country.
These courageous explorers were the Catholic priest, Father Escalante, and his party, who traveled from Santa Fe, New Mexico, northward to the Uintah Mountain country of Utah, and thence to Utah Lake and south-. Ward, seeking a road over the Sierra Nevada Mountains to California. The coming of winter deflected them in their course, and they turned east toward the now famous "Crossing of the Fathers" on the Colorado River.
Thus these early pathfinders did not see the lower valley of the Virgin or the Muddy River region, their point of approach being the site of old Fort Pierce, near the present town of St. George., Many years passed before white men again ventured into the deserts of that desolate region. It is recorded that Jedediah Smith traversed this wilderness in 1826 and 1827 on his journeys to the Pacific Coast. His first trip took him through the treacherous narrows of Note: There is a wealth of material about the Moapa Stake preserved in biographies, autobiographies, journals, letters, and diaries. I have read with much interest Andrew Jenson's collection of material in the Church Historian's office, and I have been fortunate enough to have the enthusiastic help of Sister Lois E. Jones, wife of Brother Willard L. Jones, the first president of this stake, who served for twenty-eight years. Also, I interviewed Sister Louella Leavitt, a blue-eyed, little, silver-haired lady who came to Bunkerville eleven months after the first settlers, and has been there more than seventy years.  446
Photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam  JOSHUA TREE IN BLOOM The beautiful blossoms are a sharp contrast to the swordlike leaves of the desert tree. The Virgin River gorge below the mouth of the Santa Clara River, and his second trip established the first traces of what became the famous Spanish Trail. In 1844, Captain John C. Fremont, on his way from California, camped on the Muddy River. The first Mormon to follow this trail was Jefferson Hunt who left Salt Lake City late in the fall of 1847 to take a message to the Mormon Battalion men whom he expected to meet in California. In 1849 hundreds of Argonauts (gold seekers) passed over this trail to California. In January 1850, Parley P. Pratt's company explored Southwestern Utah as far as Santa Clara Creek but did not go into the Muddv Valley. In 1852 a party of hardy explorers under command of John D. Lee explored the Virgin River region below the Beaver Dam Mountains, probably crossing over into the area surrounding the present town of Bunkerville, Nevada. In May 1854, Brigham Young visited the small settlement which John D. Lee had established at Harmony, north of St. George, and three years later, 160 people arrived at the townsite of Washington and began the first experiments in cotton raising.* _ These settlements to the northeast were necessary preliminaries to establishing forts and towns in the Muddy region, but there remained many barriers to conquest by the covered wagons. HE heat in summer was terrific; drinking water was warm alkali water; there was sickness from ma- *See Utah Historical Quarterly, XII, pp. 123-160, for a resume of early exploration in this region. MISSION TO MOAPA laria, and Indians to placate. The Muddy Mission included also the lower valley of the Virgin River, winding in and out between two walls of hills. The river had to be forded thirty-four times, in less than fifty miles, with danger from quicksand at practically every crossing. Then, the desert journey took a whole month, and the saints' reception, at the end, was a desert waste. Later, a group of adobe huts with willow and mud roofs set together into a fort greeted the travelers, and, around the fort, were to be seen pitiful attempts at wheat and corn fields, with scarcely a tree in sight.
School was held outdoors, with the Photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam 447 teacher's chair miring in the sand.
Once a lighted Halloween pumpkin on a hill frightened away a band of marauding Indians. It is no wonder that many saints became disheartened. The wonder is that any had the fortitude and faith to follow their leaders to this land. In the general Church conference of April 1855, thirty missionaries were called to the Las Vegas Mission, some fifty miles southwest of the Muddy River.
They arrived there on June fifteenth, and held services two days later in an improvised bowery.
Their mission had a fourfold purpose: to make a settlement midway on the southJOSHUA TREE This strange tree, with its shaggy, twisted branches, is characteristic of the deserts of Southern Nevada. 448
Courtesy Louella Leavitt LOUELLA LEAVITT IN FRONT OF HER HOME IN BUNKERVILLE, NEVADA Sister Leavitt came to Bunkerville the year after its settlement. Ern route to California and the Coast, where travelers could rest their teams and replenish their supplies; to take the gospel to the Indians of that locality, and teach them the ways of civilization, make peace treaties with them, and help to teach them to farm and produce the necessities of life. A third purpose of this missionary group was to explore the Colorado River,  twenty-eight miles distant in that vicinity, for its possibilities in the transportation of supplies from the East by way of Cape Horn and the Pacific Ocean, and to explore the Virgin and the Muddy Valleys.
Their fourth major purpose was to develop some lead mines in the vicinity of Las Vegas. William Bringhurst* was_president of the Las Vegas Mission, and Nathaniel V.
Jones was in charge of the group which made the heroic effort to mine lead for the Church in that vicinity in 1856, and brought back many loads of bullion to Salt Lake City.** In compliance with one objective of the mission, Call's Landing was settled in December 1864, with Anson Call as agent for the trustee-intrust of the Church. A Church warehouse was established at this point, which was 125 miles from St. George.
Because of jealousy on the part of the non-Mormons and the approach and advent of the Pacific railroad, it was abandoned and, at present, the walls are submerged in Lake Mead. In addition to the settlement of the Las Vegas Mission and Call's Landing, settlements were made during 1865 in Logandale, Overton, and St. Thomas (at the mouth of the Muddy), and at West Point (near Moapa), the latter settlements being called the "Muddy Mission," now the Moapa Valley settlements. On September 26, 1858, in a meeting at Santa Clara, it was decided "to close the Las *See Jznson, ANDREw, Biographical Encyclopedia IV, page 504. **Ibid., II, page 368. MISSION TO MOAPA _ Vegas and Muddy Mission for the present." 'The reason for this action was that the Nevada authorities were pressing the saints for three years' back taxes, when a survey found these valleys to be in Nevada instead of in Utah, or Arizona, as had been previously assumed. The people were unable to meet these heavy taxes, part of which was required to be paid in gold, and so it was deemed wise for them to vacate, which they did in February 1871, most of them then locating in Long Valley, Kane County, Utah. Las Vegas ("The Meadows") had been an important watering place along the desert route from the Coast to Salt Lake City, and the Mormons retained their claim upon it until 1868, when a newspaper in St.
George posted notice of its being for sale.
Settlements had been made at Clover Valley in 1870, presided over by Lyman L. Woods, and in Eagle Valley, in 1864, with Brothers Meltiar Hatch and Frederick Hamblin in charge. In 1869, the saints who had settled at Overton were organized into a branch, with Helaman Pratt as presiding elder, and, in November, James Leithead was made head of the Muddy Mission, consisting of St. Thomas, St. Joseph (Logandale), Overton, West Point, and Junction City. In 1871, these communities were abandoned, and about ten years later, settlement began again. The return was begun in about 1880, when Sister Elizabeth Whitmore of St.
George bought the Patterson Ranch on the Muddy for $4,000.
This was the first purchase of any of the former Mormon homes. 449
Moapa Valley was organized into a ward called Overton, «in 1885, with Isaiah Cox as bishop. Robert O.
Gibson had been called to preside in St. Thomas.
With the construction of the Boulder Dam, St.
Thomas had to be abandoned again, as the water of Lake Mead covered it. N the early days of the Muddy Mission Elder Andrew S.
Gibbons did a marvelous work among the Indians in interpreting and in pacifying them.
There is no question but that he saved the lives of many of the missionaries. Elder Ira Hatch also had a special mission. It was his duty to camp on the road to help travelers.
Many times the Indians stole his provisions, and many times he came near to losing his life. He was alone so much that he almost lost the use of his own tongue, but he remained true to his trust. Bunkerville, on the Rio Virgin, was settled in 1877 by the Edward Bunker and Dudley and Samuel Leavitt families. It was settled un- - der the United Order, and is, therefore, unique.
After the failure of the Santa Clara United Order, some families desired to continue with the Order, and Bunkervile was the result.
There were twenty-three in the original company, with Edward Bunker, Sr. As president, and Lemuel S. And Dudley Leavitt as counselors. The progress made under this Order was phenomenal. 'The very first season they grubbed and planted and harvested seventy-five acres 450 of land, in addition to making their irrigation canals and constructing shelters, and fighting the awful heat and the sand and the wind and the floods. At first, the people lived like one big family, having one large dining room and kitchen, and rotating the household work. The saints were prayerful and humble, and worked together in harmony for two and one-half years, at which time, in 1880, the Order was discontinued, due to differences that had arisen. The community was almost selfsupporting, the people supplying both food and clothing.
Their cotton was hauled to the factory at Washington and exchanged for cloth.
Molasses and honey took the place of sugar, and salt was mined from a mountain thirty miles away. All other food was grown and prepared at home. ROM the first, recreation and education were provided for in the community.
There were "bees," and parties, and dances.
Very early there was improvised an out-of-door - dance hall, and the fiddler was paid in produce.
Schools were at first held in the private homes, but, in 1905, a schoolhouse was construct: ed. Twice, fire destroyed their precious school buildings, but, in spite of all hardships, the schools were gradually improved.
Bunkerville was, in a sense, the mother ward of the Moapa Stake. The wards of Littlefield, Mesquite, and Overton—of Logandale and St. Thomas, and of Las Vegas, were all branches of the Bunkerville Ward before they became wards in their  own right. In 1922, Las Vegas became a separate branch from Bunkerville, with Ira Joseph Earl as presiding elder, and, in 1924, it became a ward.
Littlefield was settled, in 1878, by John T. Graff, Christian Stucki, Henry Frehner, and others. It was made a ward in 1927, with Harold Joseph Reber as_ bishop.
Logandale became a ward in 1925, _with Elmer Bowman as_ bishop. Mesquite, on the north side of the Virgin River, was begun in 1880 and, about that time, was established as a ward. It was abandoned in 1883, due to floods and sickness, and was again established as a ward in 1901, with William E.
Abbott as bishop. In June 1912, the present Moapa Stake was organized. It was an important occasion and a great bowery had been built especially for it. The dirt floor was well sprinkled, rough seats had been especially made, and barrels of water and shiny tin cups were placed conveniently about. Brother George F.
Richards presided and set apart Willard L.
Jones as president, with John M.
Bunker and Samuel H.
Wells as counselors, and W. J.
Flowers as stake clerk. It is of interest that, twenty-eight years later, Brother Richards again returned to the Moapa Stake to release President Jones, who had served faithfully and well those many years.
Since the stake has been organized, many improvements have taken place—roads made, school buildings and ward chapels built, telephone and telegraph brought in, irrigation systems set up, bridges built, electric lights installed, water
MISSION TO MOAPA 451
Photograph, Courtesy Lois E. Jones ORGANIZATION OF MOAPA STAKE, June 9, 1912
Front row, seated, left to right: Orin P. Miller, member of the Presiding Bishopric; Francis M.
Lyman and George F. Richards, members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Back row, standing, left to right: William Murphy; Robert Bunker; Robert O. Gibson, bishop of St. Thomas Ward and later a member of the Moapa Stake presidency; Bishop Joseph I.
Earl of Bunkerville, later stake patriarch; Bishop William Perkins of Overton; Orin Jarvis; Freed Bischoff; 'Thomas P. Cottam, First Counselor in the presidency of St. George Stake; Ellis Turnbaugh, first clerk of Moapa Stake; Edward I. Cox, appointed bishop of Bunkerville Ward June 9, 1912, at the time Bishop Earl was released; N. Ray Pixton, who later became the second clerk of Moapa Stake; William Cooper; Edward H. Snow, President of St. George Stake; Warren Cox of St. George, Utah; Willard L. Jones, President of Moapa Stake; Thomas J. Jones, Patriarch of Modpa Stake; Nephi J. Wadsworth, Bishop of Panaca, Nevada. Samuel H. Wells, Second Counselor in the Moapa Stake presidency, was absent when this photograph was taken. And sewer systems made, dairy herds principles and standards, and deand productive farms established, sired to live well-rounded lives, proand mills and mines set into eneraviding social, educational, and finantion.
Cial advantages for themselves and The people who established their children as rapidly as they themselves in the Virgin, Muddy, could.
Marvelous progress has and Las Vegas Valleys have demonbeen made in the Moapa Stake, strated the best that went into very which stands today as a great monudifficult pioneering in the outlying ment to the courage and faith of areas of the great Church empire. The Mormon pioneers who _ perThey were directed by religious formed their "Mission to Moapa." HE two most brilliant queens in history—Cleopatra of Egypt and Elizabeth of England—were extremely versatile in their accomplishments, but both owed much of their success to being able to talk well, Plutarch says that Cleopatra's beauty "was neither astonishing nor inimitable," but it derived a flavor from her wit and her fascinating manner that was absolutely irresistible. Her melodious voice had the "same variety of modulation as an instrument of many strings. She answered her foreign ambassadors— the Troglodytes, Ethiopians, Hebrews, Arabs, Scythians, Medes, and Parthians (and yet others) in their own tongues." She was adept at gay, humorous, serious, statesmanlike, or purely charming and social conversation. BLIZABETH was a Student of Greek and mistress of six other languages, besides her own. She had a genius for both business and statesmanship; was a superb penman, an excellent musician, a magnificent dancer, a connoisseur of painting and poetry. Her conversation, witty and elegant, also "revealed an unerring social sense and a charming delicacy of personal perception," says Strachey. "She could drive in her meaning with hammer blows up to the hilt," or could in -
Ramona W. Cannon dulge in "the most ornate confection of studied ambiguities," deluding even the most clear-sighted. jyfRS. HENRY ROE CLOUD, of West Linn, Oregon, fiftynine years of age, was chosen by the mothers committee of the Golden
Rule Foundation as American
Mother of 1950. Born on the White Earth Indian reservation in northern Minnesota, she is the daughter of a German homesteader and a Chippewa Indian mother.
Mrs. Cloud has four daughters, one of whom, Mrs. Edward Hughes, was the first American Indian to be graduated from Wellesley College.
Her late husband was the first Indian graduated from Yale university.
Before her marriage, Mrs. Cloud taught school among the Blackfoot
Indians in Montana. ciety and Sunday School, was chosen Utah mother of the year. She was educated in the Kaysville public schools, Brigham Young University, and Utah State Agricultural
College. Her children include two college professors, a contractor, a steam fitter and plumber, and the wife of a professor.
Page 453

EDITOHIAL
VOL. 37
JULY 1950
NO. 7 a^yur LPioneer uientage
"I^HAT made the Mormon pioneers great? It was their loyal adherence to the principles of the gospel, and their determination to preserve it unto themselves and their posterity.
The kingdom of God and his righteousness v^as the sole thought of the noble men and women who laid the foundation of this great commonwealth. Hear the words of Brigham Young as soon as his feet touched this soil, ''Here we shall build a city and there shall stand the temple of our God." We point with pride to the fulfillment of that prophecy. It is evidence that that great leader of the pioneers was inspired of God.
Over a century has passed since then, and what of us, the posterity for whom those noble pioneers endured terrible persecution and suffering that they might "preserve the gospel unto themselves and us"?
Have we the same determination to preserve it unto ourselves and our posterity? Are we exhibiting the same stalwart characteristics that made the pioneers great?
Recently a friend of ours was being interviewed for a position. She was asked what her religion was.
When she answered that she was a Mormon, the interviewer asked,
"How good a one are you?" "Why, my grandfather came into this val-
Page 454 ley with Brigham Young and my daughter is a member of one of the general boards/' our friend replied.
"But unfortunately, we are not hiring your grandfather nor your daughter/' said the interviewer. "We want to know how well you live up to the principles in which you claim to believe."
Some time ago we met an old friend whom we had not seen for a number of years. During our con versation with her we asked her what she was doing in the Church now. She said, "Oh, I don't need to get excited about Church work, my grandfather was " (naming a prominent pioneer family).
Most of us today can look back with pride upon the accomplishments of our forebears and can look forward with hope in the accomplishments of our children, but what of us? If we are to live up to the great heritage that our pioneers bequeathed to us, if we are to pass on to our children a heritage to which they can point with pride, we must loyally adhere to the principles of the gospel ourselves.
We owe it to our pioneer forefathers and to our own posterity to give the best of which we are capable to achieve this greatness. May we show by our lives we are children of our great pioneers. -V.N.S.

Photograph by W. Claudell Johnson
AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT