[Let's Be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers by Christine H. Robinson]

Let's be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers." This is an introductory lesson designed to establish the importance of the home, and to indicate some of the interesting challenges faced by the successful homemaker.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 2. Color in the Home. Color is the number one-element in superior decorating. We can produce beautiful color harmonies in our homes by correct application of the following guides: suitability to the individual and the home; proper balance of colors; building a_ color scheme. Lesson 3. Draperies and Curtains. The important part curtains and draperies play in your decorating scheme; guides in the selection of curtain and drapery materials; the use of valances and cornices. Lesson 4. Slipcovers and Dressing Table Skirts. The use of slipcovers in your home decorating; guides in choosing the correct fabrics for slipcovers; dressing table skirts can express your own tastes and desires; rule to remember in planning dressing tables. Lesson 5. Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings. 481
Types of suitable floor coverings; selecting the right color for your floor covering.
Lesson 6.
Choosing and Arranging Furniture. How to choose appropriate furniture; basic rules for arranging furniture for comfort and livability.
Lesson 7. Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories. The important role pictures play in your decorating scheme; guides for selecting pictures; size of pictures; grouping pictures effectively.
Selecting and hanging mirrors. The use of china plates and brackets as interesting wall accessories.
Lesson 8. Table Settings and Service.
Importance of proper table settings.
Selecting table linens, silver, and china.
Inexpensive and appropriate table decorations.
Serving food attractively. Work Mleeting—The Art of Homemaking Lesson 1—Let's Be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 10, 1950 OMEONE has said: Most of the great things of life are free. We can pay for pleasures and luxuries, but we cannot buy love. We can buy large houses and extravagant furnishings, but we cannot give gold for peace of mind or for happiness. It is common things that make us content, not luxuries; not palatial houses, but real homes.
Kind friends, encouraging words, loving deeds, duty done, heartaches healed, a clasp, a kiss, a smile, a song, a welcome—these are the beams that bring summer into the soul and make us lighthearted, free, and glad.* Today, more than during any other period in the history of the world, adults, as well as children, need homes which are built and maintained for the comfort, happiness, and security of those who live in them. We need homes which are havens of rest, which can resist the tremendous pressures of our *Adapted from The New Book of Etiquette, by Lillian Eichler, page 47, Garden City Publishing Company, Inc., New York. 482 modern age. Our homes should help us establish correct patterns of right living; they should abound in love, order, and consideration for others. We Latter-day Saints, in particular, to whom the home and the family are of such great importance, must make sure that we practice real homemaking in all of its aspects. The role of a homemaker differs considerably from that of a housekeeper. The main objective of a housekeeper is to provide for the physical and material needs of the family.
While this is an important element of homemaking, the real homemaker thinks not only of the physical comforts of the family, but she is equally concerned with its spiritual, intellectual, and emotional development. It is her joy to see that the family resources of money, time, and personal talents bring the greatest returns in health, happiness, and enjoyment to the individual members of the family unit. The fine art of homemaking is composed of many elements, each one essential in its own right. The wise selection of food, clothing, and a place of shelter are the first essentials of life. Usually, however, these in and of themselves do not provide the greatest satisfaction. One of the most universally desired satisfactions is the need for beauty. The idea of what constitutes beauty varies with knowledge, training, and personal taste. However, whatever our standard for beauty, the pleasure we derive from it is something very real and lasting. Our homes offer countless opportunities for us to express this sense of beauty; and also to help us cultivate a taste for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY.1950 it. The furnishing of our home, with the skillful employment of the principles of interior decoration, becomes an art in itself which can add immeasurably to the pleasure, satisfaction, and real physical and spiritual comfort of the family.
Appropriate home decoration affords opportunity to express the desire for beauty which is inherent in all of us. It helps cultivate the esthetic taste of the child and thus increases his source for future wholesome enjoyment. Furthermore, the common interest and joy of a lovely home is a definite element in developing a sense of family unity.
Families which take genuine pride in the artistic qualities of their home furnishings, however simple and inexpensive they may be, will discover that these things stand out among the intimate memories of their lives.
This interest in the home will help the child to carry the tradition of looking for the beautiful into his later life. To find beauty in the things about us and to be able to create something of it ourselves, means new opportunities for a higher standard of living, better homes, more completely rounded personalities, and happier families.
With all the competitions of modern living, it becomes more important than ever before for every woman to be a homemaker rather than just a housekeeper.
Each of us must develop her own talents and build upon them for greater family unity, more love, and more enjoyment in our homes. In decorating our homes tastefully we have an important opportunity to accomplish these ends.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Discussion Points 1. Show how the statement "The great things of life are free' can be applied to the art of homemaking. 2. Discuss some of the modern influences in and out of the home which compete with family unity and interests. 483 3. Expand on the thought that homemakers, as contrasted with housekeepers, are concerned with the spiritual, intellectual, and emotional development of their families. 4. Discuss the effect of attrative home surroundings upon the development of personality. ><>. Eee Fo— lhe Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Elder Briant S. Jacobs UR