[The Story of English China by Rachel K. Laurgaard]

The Story of English China Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson NGLISH china is a household tradition the world over—and a family tradition as well— among the families of Wedgwoods, Spode, Adams, Woods, Stevensons, and Ridgeways — to name only a few of the good old Staffordshire families of potters.
They do not claim any pottery-making ancestors farther back than the seventeenth century—(a Gilbert Wedgwood, for example, was a potter in Staffordshire in 1649) —nevertheless, the clays and fuels of the district which became Staffordshire were being utilized for pots and pitchers when the Romans came to Britain fifty years before the birth of Christ.
Throughout almost 400 years of Roman rule, during invasions of Danes and Norsemen, and the final, lasting conquest by William of Normandy, the potters of Staffordshire handed down their skills from father to son, making innovations in technique here and there, until, by the time the nineteenth century rolled around, they had developed an ancient craft into a great and thriving industry. A few pieces of pottery which date from Roman times are still in existence, but the really definite traditions of Staffordshire begin with the earlier experiments and the successful development of the "slip ware" of the seventeenth century— a red clay pottery decorated with free-flowing designs of white clay or slip, trailed on with a quill.
Lions rampant, mermaids, spread Although — eagles, and formal patterns of foliage were skilfully applied, much in the manner of decorating a cake.
Jugs in the shape of owls, miniature cradles, probably for christenings, and other odd pieces were made, in addition to the large plates, bowls, and cups, all decorated in this bold and rhythmical fashion.
Slip ware was "'peasant-pottery," used in the* little homes with thatched roofs. In mansions and castles, dishes of pewter and silver served the wealthy.
Only when the porcelain of the Orient came filtering in, did they discover how much better food tasted when served from the products of the kiln instead of the forge. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Italian majolica, Dutch delftware, and French soft-paste porcelain were all imported into England, and soon English factories were set up to imitate them. In Staffordshire, the potters continued to make slip ware, while at Liverpool, Chelsea, Bow, Worcester, and Derby, the soft-pastes of the Continent were emulated. The factory at Chelsea was particularly successful in putting out a beautiful and fragile ware, so like milky-white glass in texture, that, at times, it has been mistaken for glass.
Little of it was original in design or decoration.
Meissen was all the rage, and Chelsea painters copied the delicate landscapes, the slight Japanese designs, and the sprigs and bouquets of naturalistic flowers—styles which Meissen artPage
465 WEDGWOOD JASPER WARE—1780
Blue colored background, with white embossing ists had invented. 'Fhey gave them an English character quite their own, however, and a new beauty of color and rhythm which put Chelsea in a class with the best French porcelains of the period.
Chelsea figurines were charmingly simple, with a life and vitality different from the often cruelly humorous figures of Kaendler's Meissen.
Though the Chelsea factory closed in 1784, English china makers have never forgotten this—their most artistic porcelain, and they have continued to reproduce Chelsea patterns on more modern wares, while antique originals bring fabulous prices from collectors.
None of the English porcelain or delftware factories was longlived, perhaps because there was no royal support, as on the Continent. The potters of Staffordshire seemed not to be too interested in imitating luxury wares; they were striving for a tougher, cleaner, and more attractive everyday china.
From slip ware they developed "stoneware" a hard, dense, heavily glazed red or brown earthenware.
When white Devonshire clay was introduced into the paste, it became  grayish in color, and, with the addition of calcined flint, it became still whiter. GOMEONE, early in the eighteenth century, discovered that by throwing salt into the kiln when the temperature was at its peak, a thin film of very hard glaze could be deposited on the surface of the ware.
This made it even more durable and resistant to liquids and food chemicals. By sifting and refining the clays, thinner vessels became practicable, and these were "cast" in molds instead of being turned on the wheel. Naturally, this dainty, yet practical, salt-glazed stoneware was very popular with the English, and soon with the Continental and American housewives as well. So, for the first time, English china entered world trade. The name pre-eminently connected with the improvement of © Staffordshire techniques was Josiah Wedgwood. Not that he was the inventor of all of these processes, rather, he was the clever assimilator—with the ideal of technical perfection ever as his goal. He insisted that lids should fit, spouts should pour, and handles be properly shaped. His cream-colored STAFFORDSHIRE WARE Nineteenth Century THE STORY OF ENGLISH CHINA ROYAL DOULTON FIGURINE stoneware was the acme of simplicity and perfection.
Decoration was applied in the form of vines, flowers, and grapes molded in clay and fastened to the surface by a method called sprigging. So widely was this ware acclaimed that Queen Charlotte, wife of George III, ordered a set, and henceforth Wedgwood was permitted to call his product Queen's Ware. The grapevine pattern is still a popular Queen's Ware design, though nowadays it is stamped on, rather than applied by hand. In 1755, another sensational innovation in the china industry took place in Liverpool. The firm of Sadler and Green announced that they were setting up a business for decorating china by an entirely new process—transfer printing.
Copper plate engravings were made to fit the piece to be decorated.
Transfer papers were imprinted from the copper plate and, from the paper, the design was transferred to the dish. The ink was allowed to dry for several days, and then the piece was baked. It was glazed next, and given a final firing. 467
The Staffordshire potters availed themselves of Messrs. Sadler and Green's services, and quantities of. Stoneware went to Liverpool to be decorated, and thence out into the markets of the world. At first deep blue was the only color used because it fired well, but soon carmine, brown, green, and light blue were available. Engravings were made from the works of well-known artists, scenes, buildings, portraits of famous people, and characters from books, fanciful oriental designs and conventional patterns of fruit and flowers—even photographs were copied. To America were sent scenes from our history, portraits of our famous men, and views sketched by our artists. Enoch Wood's pottery works put out more American scenes than any of the others, although the trade marks of Ridgeway, Clewes, Adams, Wedgwood, Stevenson, Spode, and others are to be found also, each with its own special border design of fruit or flowers and foliage, medallions, and scrolls. Although unclassified pieces turn up now and then, most patterns of historical Staffordshire can be identified in such interesting books on the subject as, American Views on Historical Staffordshire, by Ellouise Baker Larsen. Staffordshire potters did not concentrate all their efforts on serviceable tableware, however. Wedgwood, in particular, was interested in creating something special in decorative ceramics. He turned to classical forms for his inspiration, and produced a great variety of urns and vases, bas-reliefs and busts in a very hard black stoneware called 468
Black Basalt. Not satisfied with this as a medium, he continued to experiment, and finally produced a perfectly white hard stoneware which would take such a high fire that it became vitreous. Y mixing coloring oxides in the paste, it could be delicately stained pale blue, sage green, yellow, dark blue, and other tints.
Upon these colored pieces were applied white ornaments. 'This type of stoneware, Wedgwood called jasper ware, and he prized it above all his other productions.
Ornamental dishes, vases, even jewelry and buttons of jasper ware were made. The most famous piece was the Portland Vase, which was copied from an antique original excavated from a tomb near Rome, and belonged to the collection of the Duchess of Portland.
Most other English potters imitated the enterprising Wedgwood, some of them, such as William Adams of Tunstall, and Josiah Spode of Stoke, equaled Wedgwood's  SPODE BONE CHINA Chelsea Garden Pattern ware in quality. 'To Spode is ascribed the honor of developing, in 1794, a still different ware which merged the porcelain and earthenware styles. It is the Staffordshire bone china, a practical and economical hybrid porcelain containing bone ash. It is more durable than true porcelain, and cream-colored instead of pure white.
With slight variations among different manufacturers, Spode's formula is still the standard wherever bone china is produced. It ls usually decorated by hand, and such fine modern brands as Minton's, Royal Worcester, Crown Derby, Spode, and Wedgwood bone china achieve pre-eminence from the careful work of their skilled china painters who continue to reproduce the antique Chelsea, Meissen, and oriental patterns.
Figurines and Toby jugs are popular products of the Royal Doulton factory.
Many have been the changes in the Staffordshire Pottery District since the slipware potters of long ago turned out their simple handmade wares! llotes on Authors of the oessons HIS year two writers, Elder Archibald F.
Bennett and Sister Christine Hinckley Robinson, are introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. Archibald F. Bennett, who prepared the social science lessons, was born in Dingle, Idaho, the son of William D. And Emma Neat Bennett. He received his B. A. And M. A.
Degrees from the University of Utah, majoring in history and_ political science. He taught at Taber High School, the Knight Academy, and Raymond High School in Alberta, Canada. He served in the Canadian Expeditionary Force during the First World War for thirty-eight months, most of that time overseas in France. On September 1, 1928, he became Secretary of the Genealogical Society of the Church, and has served over twenty-one years in that position, editing the Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine for twelve years., With the development of microfilming activities in the United States and ten countries of Europe, his duties have called him to visit the various countries there for several months during the years 1947 and 1948., He has served as a member of the General Board of The Deseret Sunday School Union since August, 1940. He married Ann Ella Milner of Raymond, Alberta, and they are the parents of five children, two sons and three daughters, with one grandchild. Christine Hinckley Robinson is the author of the lessons on "The Art of Homemaking." A member of the Relief Society general board, Sister Robinson is a daughter of Bryant S. And the late Christine Johnson Hinckley. She was born in Salt Lake City and attended Brigham Young University. Sister Robinson is the wife of Dr. O. Preston Robinson, and is the mother of one son and two daughters. Dr.
Robinson was on the faculty of New York University for nearly twenty years. He is now head of the department of marketing at the University of Utah. 'Sister Robinson is co-author with her husband of a popular textbook on modern salesmanship. In addition, she has written a number of newspaper and magazine articles on interior decoration. She studied home decorating at New York University and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and taught at the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York. Sister Robinson has an excellent understanding of the subject about which she writes and of how it can be adapted most effectively to the lives and homes of the sisters of the Relief Society. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Elder Don B. Colton: Relief Society Magazine, July 1947, page 483. Mary Grant Judd: Relief Society Magazine, July 1949, page 471. Briant S. Jacobs: Relief Society Magazine, July 1949, page 471. Florence J. Madsen, Relief Society Magazine, January 1939, page 32 and September 1941, page 592. 
Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Elder Don B. Colton his commandments. The objective AS in the previous three years, the textbook to be followed this year is Jesus the Christ by Elder James E. Talmage. This year's lessons will conclude the course. It has been found advisable in two instances to include two chapters in one lesson, but they are comparatively short chapters and can be covered, if the outline is followed. By special request, the author has closely confined his discussion to the text. It is a wonderful biography of the Savior. While supplemental and enrichment material is desirable, it should be germane to the text. Discussion should be confined to the subject matter of the lesson. Surely every careful student can see how necessary it is for us to understand the life and teachings of Jesus the Christ. Anything which can be done to induce the world to follow him more faithfully, should challenge the attention and enlist the support of all honest people, and especially those who profess membership in his true Church. This year's course should bring us to a deeper appreciation of the great work that our Redeemer did for us and awaken within our hearts a keen desire to do his will and keep  will be to show his great love for us and his willingness to glorify our Father in heaven. He marked the path for us to follow. Suggestive questions and points for discussion are given at the end of each lesson, and it is hoped that they will aid in securing class participation. The class leader may desire to use other questions and should, of course, feel at liberty to do so. We have again adopted the chapter titles of the text as titles for the lessons. For the 1950-51 season we shall study chapters 33 to 42, inclusive. These are the concluding chapters, giving the events of the most glorious life ever lived upon earth. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 25.