[Theology: "The Life and Ministry of the Savior," Preview]

Theology —The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 25—"The Last Supper and the Betrayal' Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 33.) For Tuesday, October 3, 1950
Objective: To teach the purpose of the sacrament and to show the great courage of the Savior in meeting the events of his betrayal. The Priestly Conspirators and the Traitor 'WO days before the last feast of the passover which Jesus was to attend on earth, the chief priests and wicked scribes began to conspire as to how they could put the Master to death, without causing an uprising among the people. 'The conspirators finally decided against putting him to death on the feast day; the danger was too great. The celebration lasted a week. The plans of the rulers of the Jews were greatly aided by the unexpected appearance of Judas Iscariot, one of the Council of 'Twelve. Undoubtedly, this traitor was motivated by avarice. His question to them was, "What will you give me?" He bargained to sell his Master for thirty pieces of silver— about seventeen or eighteen dollars. It must be said, however, that the purchasing power of the money was far greater among the Jews in that day than among people today. Think of it! For that paltry sum earth's blackest deed of treachery was to be committed. Truly Iscariot had sold himself to Satan. The Last Supper ' During the afternoon on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the paschal lambs were slain within the temple court by representatives of families or groups who were to eat together. A portion of the blood of each lamb was sprinkled at the foot of the altar of sacrifice by one of the priests on duty for the day. The slain lamb, then said to have been sacrificed, was carried away to the designated gathering place of those by whom it was to be eaten. The last supper probably occurred that evening. Jesus had told Peter and John to return to Jerusalem and said: Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready. And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover (Luke 22:10-13). Although it was probably Thursday evening, as we reckon time, it was the beginning of Friday according to the Jewish calendar when Jesus sat down with the Twelve to partake of the last meal before his death.
LESSON DEPARTMENT And he said unto them, with desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves: For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come (Luke 22:15-18). It will be seen that Jesus followed the customary manner of beginning the passover supper. As they ate, Jesus sorrowfully remarked: "Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me" (Mark 14:18).
Nearly all of the apostles began, in turn, to ask: "Is it I?"
Most of them, no doubt, wondered whether, inadvertently, they might have said or done something which would cause the Lord's betrayal. However, when the brazen Iscariot asked that question, the reply was prompt: "Thou hast said" (Matt. 26:25). The Ordinance of the Washing of Feet Another incident occurred at the supper which evidently brought sorrow to the Lord.
Some of the 'T'welve began disputing over the matter of individual precedence, possibly as to the order in which they should take their places at the supper table. It was the human within them asSerting itself.
Again the Lord reminded them that the greatest of them all was he who most willingly served his fellows. He then proceeded to teach them a great lesson in serving.
Laying aside his garments, he took a towel and girded himself and poured water into a basin.
Kneeling before each in 473 turn, he washed the disciples' feet, and wiped them with a towel. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper During the memorable last supper which Jesus ate with his apostles before his death, many great things happened.
None had more farreaching effect than the instituting of the ordinance of the sacrament.
They were still at the table when the Lord took a loaf or cake of bread and, after first giving thanks, blessed and sanctified it. He then gave a portion to each of the apostles, saying: ""This is my body which | is given for you: this do in remembrance of me" (Luke 22:19). He had already told them to eat the bread. 'Taking a cup of wine, he also blessed it and said: "Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins" (Matt. 26:27-28). 'The ordinance was not surrounded by mystery. It was impressive and devoid of show. The bread and wine became emblems of the Lord's body and blood taken in remembrance. 'The simplicity of the ordinance gives it beauty and, certainly, it should be administered and partaken of reverently. The proceedings at the institution of this sacred rite were afterward revealed by the Lord to Paul (I Cor. 11:23-34). It was revealed again in this our day (D. & C. 20:75).
Many unauthorized changes have been made by an apostate world both as to its meaning and effect. It is easy to understand, however, when we know that it is to be done in remembrance of the Lord's suffering. 474
This is easy to understand, as are all of the ordinances of the gospel, by those who are given the priceless gift of the Holy Ghost. The Betrayer Goes Out Into the Night When Jesus washed the feet of the apostles, he even washed the feet of the guilty Iscariot, but let it be known that all present were not clean. He answered John's whispered inquiry as to who would betray him with the words, "He it ls, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it" (John 14:26). He was referring to his betrayer for, immediately, he dipped a piece of bread into a dish containing a mixture of some kind and gave it to Judas with the direction: "That thou doest, do quickly." The record states: "Satan entered into him." The traitor immediately left the blessed company he was to know no more, and went on his terrible mission, "and it was night." _ Discourse Following the Supper Following the departure of Iscariot, Jesus commenced to talk to the remaining apostles. "Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him" (John 13:31). He inspired them with the glory of both the Father and the Son. He gave them a new commandment: "That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another" (John 13:34-35). Love should be the distinguishing mark not only of the apostles but of all members of the Church who truly love Christ. 
Jesus again told them that he would have to leave them.
Peter especially was disturbed. He seemed to have realized that the death of Jesus was near. 'The Lord made a very unusual remark to Peter: "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren" (Luke 22:31-32). The Master knew that even Peter, the chief of the apostles, would soon be overcome and deny even that he was acquainted with the Lord.
Peter would deny the Savior thrice before the dawn of the next day.
Theretofore the Lord had instructed the apostles in detail when he sent them upon their missions, however, a new order of things now awaited them. He referred to Isaiah's prophecy (Isa. 53) and told them he would soon be reckoned among the transgressors, "for the things concerning me have an end." The disciples said, "Lord, behold, here are two swords, And he said unto them, It is enough." Later, they were to learn the depth of his meaning.
John alone records this last discourse. It is earnestly recommended that members of the class read John, chapters 14, 15, 16, and 17.
Some of the most sublime truths of the gospel are taught therein. One of these truths mentioned there is outstanding.
Nearly all Christians believe that there are only two places in the hereafter.
Jesus plainly told of the graded conditions of people in the hereafter. He described, as Paul later did, the degrees of glory, of places and stations in the eternal worlds. (Read CHRIST IN GETHSEMANE Copyright by Eugene A. Perry From a Painting by Hoffman  416 also I Cor. 15.) That there are many mansions in our Father's house is not understood in the socalled Christian world (John 14:2). The Jews had been taught that there was but one God.
Many people had refused to follow Jesus when he proclaimed himself the literal Son of God (John 6:55-66). The doctrine of the oneness of deity disturbed some of the apostles. 'Thomas inquired: "Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?" In their hearts, thousands have asked that question. The answer was clear. "I am the way, the truth, and the life." If one knows Christ, one also will know the Father. He that doeth the will shall know. (Read John 7:17.) Philip was also perplexed: "Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us." It evidently grieved the Savior that even his apostles did not understand, and he replied: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?"
Jesus had been with them for three years; they held his holy Priesthood, but did not know that he was in the express image of the person of the Father. (Read Heb. 1:1-3.) They not only looked alike but were absolutely one in purpose and action. To know either was to know both, but the Father could be reached only through the Son.
Jesus instructed his disciples to pray in his name to the Father and he promised to send them the Holy Ghost which would be a Comforter and would guide them into all truth. The Holy Ghost was to be their  great guide and would take of the Father and reveal it unto them. As the apostles of the Lord, they would, by this great gift, be "strong and fruitful in good works." How impressive is this last admonition to them to abide in him and love one another. If they would do that they could "ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you."
Class members are again exhorted to read John 14, 15, 16, and 17. The last and very wonderful discourse of the Lord to his apostles was probably delivered in different places. The first part of it was given in the upper room where they had eaten, and possibly the latter portion and his concluding prayer were given as they went to the Mount of Olives. It is interesting to note that they had sung a hymn before leaving the "upper room" (Matt. 26:26-30). The Concluding Prayer Note the Master's sublime prayer and statement following the discourse.
Among other things he said: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). He showed his boundless love as he prayed for those eleven faithful apostles and, since he was about to finish his work on earth, he made a brief report to the Father in his prayer and asked to be glorified with the glory he had "before the world was." His fervent prayer should be studied (John 17).
When they reached the Mount of Olives, he left eight of the apostles at the entrance with instructions to pray. With Peter, James, and LESSON DEPARTMENT John, he went farther into the garden of Gethsemane. He was enveloped by deep sorrow and was to undergo what, perhaps, was the greatest individual struggle of the ages. He "began to be sorrowful and very heavy." He wanted to be alone; and "Saith unto them (his companions), My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death; tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt."
Returning to the three apostles, Jesus found them asleep. He gently reproved them and said: "The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."
Again he left them and prayed: "O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done." An angel appeared to him when he went back to offer his third prayer. "And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground." The Lord had conquered. He had won the battle. The Betrayal and the Arrest He now waited calmly as Judas approached. Judas, the traitor, led a body of Jewish police and Roman soldiers to the place where Jesus and his disciples waited. 'They came with torches and weapons to take him who could have commanded "twelve legions of angels" had he desired. The Lord walked calmly toward them and inquired: "Whom seek ye?"
Judas profaned the sacred 477 face of Jesus with a kiss.
Even though the signal agreed upon had been given, the soldiers hesitated to take Jesus. He told them frankly that he was Jesus of Nazareth.
Mindful of his apostles, he asked that they be allowed to go their way. He was undoubtedly trying to shield them from the abuse and humiliation which he knew was to come to him.
Some of the apostles were ready to defend their Lord, and Peter drew his sword and smote off the ear of a servant of the high priest.
Jesus secured permission to heal the wounded man, and forbade further resistance on the part of his friends. He was willing to drink the cup his Father was giving him.
Jesus was bound with cords and led captive to face his deadly enemies.
Jesus knew his rights and protested to the high priests and other officials, but said he yielded so that the word and will of God might be fulfilled.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Relate the story of the betrayal of» Jesus. 2.
What is the purpose of the sacrament of the Lord's supper?
Tell of the Savior instituting the sacrament. 3.
What is the great mission of the Holy Ghost? How is it bestowed? 4.
What are some of the doctrines taught by the Lord in his last discourse?
References in the Gospels Matt. 10:3; 112:16;, @yrgs; 26:3-5, 14-19, 26-56; 27:3-10. Mark 10:38, 39; 24:1, 10-16, 22-52; 15:28. Lule GG 147719; aatl-137" 19, 20, 24-38. John 5:26-27; 7:30, 44, 45-53; 10:17, 18; 11:47-57; 13:1-38; 14; 15; 16; 17; 18:3, 9, 12. 20:22; 
478 
Uisiting Seachers Tlessages—Our Savior Speaks Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Mary Grant Judd HE visiting teacher messages for 1950-51 will again correlate with the theology lessons, being a continuation of the series "Our Savior Speaks." In so far as possible the messages have been written to have special interest in the particular months presented. It is the earnest hope of the general board that during the year, the women of Relief Society, both those who have carried Christ's inspirational words into the homes, and those who have received them, will search out other teachings of our Savior and make them effective in their individual lives. It is felt this study, in connection with the theology lessons, will lead to the reading of the four gospels in their completeness, together with the account of Christ's coming to the American Continent as recorded in Third Nephi of the Book of Mormon. The titles and objectives of the lessons for'1950-51 are as follows: Lesson g. "Come and Follow Me" (Matt. 19:21). Objective: To call to mind that there is a path which, if followed, will lead to happiness here and hereafter.
Lesson 10. "Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" (Mark 13:33). Objective:, To bring out the vital power of prayer, and the need for habitual prayer.
Lesson 11. "Search the Scriptures for They Are They Which Testify of Me" (John 5:39). Objective: To give incentive for a greater familiarity with the scriptures, particularly those in the Book of Mormon appropriate to Christmas.
Lesson 12. "For What Shall It Profit a Man If He Shall Gain the Whole World and Lose His Own Soul?" (Mark 8:36). Objective: To stress that the chief aim of life should be the saving of the soul of man.
Lesson 13. "Forgive, and Ye Shall Be Forgiven" (Luke 6:37). Objective: To define what constitutes true forgiveness and to point out why forgiveness has a two-fold aspect.
Lesson 14. "A New Commandment I Give Unto You, That Ye Love One Another As I Have Loved You" (John 13:34). Objective: To show the all-inclusiveness of the pattern of love which Christ gives us to follow.
Lesson 15. "And Jesus Answering Saith Unto Them, Have Faith in God" (Mark 11:22).
LESSON DEPARTMENT Objective: To point out that faith in God is fundamental to true success in life. Lesson 16. "Lo, I Am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the 479
World" (Matt. 28:20). Objective: To leave a concluding message of hope and comfort in all the homes visited. Ussiting Seacher ITlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 9—"Come and Follow Me" (Matt. 19:21). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, October 3, 1950
Objective: To call to mind that there is a path which, if followed, will lead to happiness here and hereafter. HIS is a day when there are concerted movements afoot for the possession of men's minds. 'This ideology or that ideology is presented as the magic formula to solve the perplexities of this troubled world. And yet these few simple words uttered by our Master— "Come and follow me" (Matt. 19:21) would, if heeded, set our footsteps in that path which will bring us peace of mind and true success. Some of the phases of life which appear so simple, are, when we attempt to live them, found to be really difficult to achieve. For example, we all profess love of the Savior. We feel sure that were he here today to ask of us the same question asked of Peter, '"Lovest thou me?" our answer would be the same as that given by the great disciple, "Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee" (John 21:16). And, vet, by the rule that Christ himself set, could we honestly say that we love him? He tells us that if we love him we will keep his commandments. He goes further and states which are the most important commandments: namely, to love the Lord with all our hearts, might, mind, and strength, and to love our neighbors as ourselves. This is not always easy to do. As with the rich young man in the time of Christ, so with us today, there is ever that conflict between our striving for material possessions and for worldly honors and our desire to conform to the teachings of our Savior. To consistently follow in the footsteps of the Master, is to make a daily habit of so doing. Only in this way can we gain and keep the momentum necessary to sustain us when the going is difficult. A mechanical engineer states that it requires six times as much power to start a fly wheel from a dead stop as it does to keep it going once it is in motion. Let us get our spiritual mechanisms in good running order and never allow them to slow down, 480 remembering that "no man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:62). Beginning in our own homes and in our own RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950 communities, let us walk in the path that the Savior pointed out. Only by so doing can we consistently answer his call, "Come and follow me." + Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Christine H. Robinson HE work meeting lessons for 1950-51, "The Art of HomeMaking," have three fundamental objectives. First, they are designed to show all Latter-day Saint women how, through the intelligent application of a few simple principles and guides, they can make their - homes more livable and attractive. Second, they are planned to encourage all Relief Society members, through full use of their own talents and skills, to be real homemakers as well as fine housekeepers. Third, they have the objective of encouraging all of us, through more thoughtful planning, to furnish our homes with maximum economy. The home and our family unit lie at the heart of the gospel plan. As Latter-day Saints we are homeloving people. We know the important part a successful home can play in the molding of sound characters and in the development of wholesome personalities. With these fundamental convictions, we must constantly do everything within our powers to create the kind of homes which make us happy and in which our children can feel a sense of security and pride. Although it takes more than carpets, furniture, draperies, pictures, mirrors, and other furnishings to make a home, these physical things, when selected with good taste and intelligence, can do much to establish an appropriate atmosphere in which the real spirit of the home can develop. This course of study consists of eight lessons covering various basic home decorating problems. Each lesson, after a discussion of principles, methods, and _ techniques, lists a number of discussion points. These discussion points are designed as springboards for. Group discussions. Rather than using them merely as questions to be answered during the lesson period, we suggest you employ them as assignments, for the purpose of bringing in additional materials of specific interest to the members of your society. The subjects of the lessons are as follows: oe?
Lesson 1. "Let's be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers." This is an introductory lesson designed to establish the importance of the home, and to indicate some of the interesting challenges faced by the successful homemaker.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 2. Color in the Home. Color is the number one-element in superior decorating. We can produce beautiful color harmonies in our homes by correct application of the following guides: suitability to the individual and the home; proper balance of colors; building a_ color scheme. Lesson 3. Draperies and Curtains. The important part curtains and draperies play in your decorating scheme; guides in the selection of curtain and drapery materials; the use of valances and cornices. Lesson 4. Slipcovers and Dressing Table Skirts. The use of slipcovers in your home decorating; guides in choosing the correct fabrics for slipcovers; dressing table skirts can express your own tastes and desires; rule to remember in planning dressing tables. Lesson 5. Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings. 481
Types of suitable floor coverings; selecting the right color for your floor covering.
Lesson 6.
Choosing and Arranging Furniture. How to choose appropriate furniture; basic rules for arranging furniture for comfort and livability.
Lesson 7. Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories. The important role pictures play in your decorating scheme; guides for selecting pictures; size of pictures; grouping pictures effectively.
Selecting and hanging mirrors. The use of china plates and brackets as interesting wall accessories.
Lesson 8. Table Settings and Service.
Importance of proper table settings.
Selecting table linens, silver, and china.
Inexpensive and appropriate table decorations.
Serving food attractively.