[Music—Fundamentals of Musicianship, Preview of Lessons for Union Meeting]

Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lesson 1—''Fundamentals of Conducting" Florence J]. Madsen Objective: To become more thoroughly familiar with rhythm and its divisions. Governing Factors in Conducting ONDUCTING is_ performing; therefore, the conductor is a performer. Successful conducting is dependent upon the recognition and application of various scientific and artistic laws and principles. 'The con- 498 ductor, consciously or unconsciously, applies knowledge gained from the fields of psychology, physics, sociology, history, aesthetics, ethics, dramatics, speech, and singing. The roots of great conducting are planted and nourished in these departments of knowledge and experience. All persons who are just beginning to conduct, or who consider themselves amateur conductors should, at their earliest opportunity, strive to comprehend and put into use as much helpful information as possible from these rich sources. Requisites to Successful Conducting Even in the most elementary conducting, the conductor should know from memory and be able at will to apply at least a number of the more common rhythm signatures, tempo indicators or marks, and dynamic words or signs. Part of the class time in union meeting should be used in memorizing and applying these as directed in this and subsequent lessons. Rhythm Rhythm is the regular or reciprocated accent or pulsation in music. (The word "time" should not be used in this connection. See pages 219 and 263 — "Rhythm" and "Time" in Louis C. Elson's Music Dictionary. All conductors and accompanists should use this book regularly, also, Karl W. Gehrken's book, Music Notation and Terminology.) | There are six divisions of rhythm in music. These are: Even, Compound Even, Triple, Compound ~ 
Triple, Peculiar, Compound Peculiar. The Even division of rhythm includes the following: 22 2 2 2 i, 2, 4, 8, 16
Short Alla Breve—(pronounced Alla Brave) is the equivalent of 2/2 rhythm. It is represented as a large "C" with a vertical line drawn through.. 4 4 1, 2? Ld 4 4 4 4, 8, 16
Long Alla Breve is the equivalent of 4/2 rhythm. The signature for the Short and Long Alla Breve is the same, the difference being only in the note values used. The "C" is the equivalent of 4/4 rhythm, not "common time." All of these rhythm signatures should be memorized.
When this has been done, effort should be made to identify and classify them in association with hymns in available hymn books. For example: Turn to page 342 in the Latter-day Saint Hymn Book (green), and examine the song, "The Voice of God is Heard Again." Observe, at the beginning of this, hymn is a 2/2.
This is the rhythm signature of the composition and indicates that there are two beats in a measure and that the half note is the beat note.
Having memorized this rhythm signature and its significance, proceed in this same manner to other hymns like the one next to it on page 341, "Be It My Only Wisdom Here."
This rhythm signature is the Short Alla Breve. (This is the equivalent of two-two thythm because two half notes or their time-value occupy every meas- LESSON DEPARTMENT ure in the song.) Examples of these same rhythm signatures may be found on pages 284 and 85 in the D. S. S. Song Book,* and on pages 7 and 12 in the recently published Hymn Book. In Short Alla Breve rhythm and all others with the figure 2 as the upper number, there is normally but one accent.
This occurs on the first note in the measure. Long Alla Breve rhythm differs from the Short Alla Breve in that it has four half notes, or their equivalent, in a measure. Alla Breve literally means in the style or manner of a double whole note.
This is represented by placing one or two short vertical *Deseret Sunday School Song Book 499 lines before and after a whole note. (See Music Dictionary under Notation.") 'This note is the equivalent of four half notes.
Learn and rehearse all the details together.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Name some of the duties of the conductor. 2.
With what particular educational subjects should the conductor and the accompanist be familiar? (a) Why? 3.
Name the thythm. ' (a) Differentiate between Long Alla Breve and Short Alla Breve rhythms. (b) Refer to song books for examples. | various divisions of —— She Might of God &xtends the Arm of Mlan Dorothy J. Roberts I know there have been men, as Samson, who slew A thousand with the strength of his own arm And God's; who quenched his thirst with stranger springs Than any I have known—when water gushed From the whitened jaw-bone on the plains of Ramathlehi; Who faced the armored leaches of his land And lions, unafraid, and tore them as a kid, And used no other blade to still their savage cry. My blood has raced to read of him, and pillars toppling To his might and the Lord's, and temples crashed Upon his enemy to still the mocking tongues _ And break the spear pressed to the neck of Dan. I have thrilled exultantly to feel This power of God swell in the arm of man. And I have found in my own day, such might As bore the posts and doors of Gaza's gate Uphill, upon the shoulders of a man. I have heard God's power, through mortal tongue, Snap the binding sophistries of error as Green wythes from the locks of the Nazarite. And through these words, where falling Dagons lean, I glimpse the far dominon sown with peace, And reap the fields freed of the Philistine. 500
Beautiful 3—Part. Choral Music for Singing —Mothers 255
Dear Land of Home— Sibelius 5 R2782
God Painted a Picture — DeRose 20 I Bow My Head in Silent Prayer — McNeill, Gallop, Krenz 20 R3368 If God Forgot—O'Hara.20 1560 In the Garden—Miles _ 16 6235
Look in Mercy Upon Us— Mendelssohn 15 900 My Faith Looks Up to Thee —Mason 15 R2260 My Own America—Wrubel _.20 1075
Send Forth Thy Spirit— Schuetky mt) 2092
Somewhere, Beyond the Sunset — Ackley —_ - 16 658
Watch and Pray—Hamblen.15 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL —RELIASILITY D sour aune MAIN STREET Vo '$ALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN 
Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 458) girlhood, sweet and young, to a woman of wide capacity and richness. For the rest of the evening her music changed the politely hearty applause to a roar, and brought the audience to its feet. When she beckoned Paul to her side and took her final bow in a simple gesture, her hand in his, the crowd went wild and surged about them. Tears of pride dampened Cory's eyes. "You thought it couldn't be done," gloated Jane. "Thank you, Jane," Cory said sincerely, taking both Mrs. Hartley's hands. "You are a very good friend. Thank you very much." "Cory, I'm going with you home. I want to get acquainted with Linnie's relatives-to-be, and I simply have to have a chance to tell her how beautifully she sang. You can run me home a little later, can't you?" "T certainly can," said Cory. Edith was glad of the excuse to put Mrs. Lewis to bed. That done, she went to bed herself. 'There was no need and no place for her downstairs among the guests. Mr. Fontaine and Cory were getting on famously. 'The women had Jane. Linnie would show them to their rooms. INNIE'S wedding day was a glory of beautiful weather, much to the relief of Edith. The roses made blossomed garlands over the trellises and everything was at its best. The long-awaited day held disappointment for Edith, however- DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS because it turned out that she didn't get to see the wedding. They were in the midst of dressing when Mrs. Lewis suddenly turned pale. "I think I'd best get to bed,' she told Edith. Edith, alarmed, helped her there and called Mr. Lewis. "It's nothing, nothing at all to cause all this fuss and_ bother," said the peppery little old lady when he wanted to call'a doctor. "Just you go about your business and let me be. I want to go to that reception tonight and I won't be fit if I don't rest. All this nighthawking I've been doing!" She looked better already, and insisted that Edith go along, but of course Edith didn't. "I'm so sorry you can't be there," said Cory, coming up the stairs. "You should be." She might as well have gone, because Mrs. Lewis slept most of the day. It was well into the afternoon when they all came back, for the Fontaines took them all to breakfast at the Calvert Hotel. There was only time for a short rest before getting ready for the reception. There was that exalted stillness about them that comes from a profound experience. "I'm not going to miss out on everything," Mrs. Lewis insisted, when they suggested that she remain in bed for the evening. "I'm perfectly all right.' Indeed, she seemed as usual, so Edith helped her with the lavender silk and her hair. "They'll think you are the bride," vowed Linnie. She loved being in the receiving 501
First: Choice. ELECTRIC! People on our lines Cook Electrically than by any other method UTAH POWER & nec. All Funeral Services Are Stenographically Recorded ~~ IT HAS ALWAYS been our policy to have complete funeral services to fit any budget — — ~ Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary 125 N. Main 3-7626 SALT LAKE CITY 502 eMMeet_ 'Lady Laura" Lovely Welsh Maiden, whose pioneer experiences furnish romance, adventure, courage and pathos in the fascinating new novel written by Utah's Mamie Peters Cail. Published by Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City: $2.50 at local book stores, or send directly to the author, Mamie Peters Call, Brigham City, Utah. Please send the book, "Lady Laura" to: Address Enclosed is $2.50
Book Dealers' orders at regular discount.
PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES
Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access. Either permanent binding or magazine covers in which you can add each issue as published. Thee Deseret News Press 40
Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah  line, and soon the house was filled with the pleasant murmur of guests. Linnie's girl friends swished about in their formal dresses, serving the guests, while Amanda presided over the towering wedding cake. Great mounds of chicken salad, rolls, and freezers of frosted ice, boxes of mints and buttered nuts were stacked' ready. Edith had planned to supervise the gifts upstairs, but Linnie would have none of it. "I want you in the receiving line," she insisted over Edith's protestations at not being a relative. "You weren't at the wedding, and it was like not having my own mother there." HE words thrilled Edith, the more so since Linnie had always seemed dear enough to be the daughter she had never had. Touched almost to tears by this appreciation, she asked Mrs. Gooding to care for the gifts, while she stood rather self-consciously in the receiving line.. Infinitely the evening dragged by. The seemingly endless line of friends thinned out and _ finally stopped. The bride and bridegroom cut the cake and danced to the tune of "I Love You Truly." Linnie had it all, up to the point where Paul's face was smeared with the lipstick of Linnie's laughing girl friends, and until she herself was ready to drop from fatigue. The photographers wound up their flash cords, and the musicians packed their violins, cellos, and music stands and departed. "Never say the younger generation can't take it," said Cory in an aside to Edith. "That is what she wanted, isn't it?" DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS "This is it," said Edith. "Nor the older generation," answering his first question. "Look at your mother. Of course she slept all day, and sat throughout the receiving, but she is still excited. How soon do you think we can pack her off to bed?" "Not until Linnie and her young man leave," piped the little old lady, who had overheard. At last the partings were over, Linnie coming back in a rush of love and gratitude to hug Edith and her Grammy, to pour out again her thanks for her wedding festivities, the beauty of the house. With seas of luggage, Cory took them all to the airport, and Edith put the weary old grandmother to bed. She was trying to get some 503 semblance of order to the when Cory came back. He steered her to her door at once and told her good night. "I think I'll hibernate," he said. Edith dropped thankfully to bed and to sleep. ) She awakened some hours later, however, with a surging sense of alarm. So used was she to hearing the breathing of the little old lady in the next room that its sudden cessation woke her from even so sound a sleep. The open mouth, the sunken eyes, were not the semblance of death this time. They were death gifts itself, hurtingly vivid in the suddenly switched-on light. A moment, horrified. "Cory! Cory!" she screamed with all her lungs. (To be concluded) Edith stood SEARS Salt Lake City (1), Utah Please send literature giving full 20
Volumes American Peoples _ENCYCLOPEDIA From Nac nll Fee I am writing to thank you for the time and talent you give us so willingly. I love our Relief Society Magazine, and I am always proud to share it with others. I enjoy reading it, especially the poetry and feel its wonderful inspiration. —LaRene Bartlett ~ San Diego, California The Relief Society Magazine is read and enjoyed by all members of my family.
Besides the wonderful lessons it teaches, there is inspiration on each page for young and old.
Daddy reads it as faithfully as he reads his Reader's Digest. —Wilhelmina F. Johnson, Washington, D. C. The stories in The Relief Society Magazine are lovely. I do enjoy them all and am glad to be a subscriber. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California From the lovely town of Bournemouth in the South of faraway England comes this tribute to The Relief Society Magazine. It is a joy to my husband and myself, together with two young elders, who, as missionaries, are laboring among these fine people, to witness the growth and development of this branch. My Relief Society Magazine is of inestimable value to our newly organized Relief Society in the preparation and presentation of the splendid lessons. At the conclusion of the month I pass the Magazine around and also use it in tracting and find it a valuable missionary aid. —Theodora B. Johnson, Bournemouth, England I feel you are doing a fine thing for poetry in publishing as much as you do, and I believe many enjoy this poetry.
Often in our Relief Society meetings the teachers add poetry from the Magazine to enrich or clarify points in their lessons.
This last issue (April 1950) had such good reading that I neglected everything else when it came. —Mabel Jones Gabbott, Bountiful, Utah I don't know quite how it can be, but each month the Magazine seems to get better, especially the poetry.
Please do insist on greater and more frequent output from Deone R. Sutherland (stories in March and August 1948; July and August 1949; May 1950). Her humor is so delicious and inimitable that I long for a whole book of her little stories to lift my spirits when they sag. —kKatherine Fernelius Larsen, Salt Lake City, Utah The May Magazine just came, and I enjoyed it as usual. It is a great Magazine, and I was more than ever impressed with its mission when I studied the pages devoted to the 1949 subscriptions. It thrilled me to see what Sister Nancy M.
Rupp and her ten sisters had done in the South Los Angeles Stake to get 1193 subscriptions—134 per cent.
Honors go to Marie De Spain with 224 per cent, for a job well done—the six stakes with over 100 per cent and the seven missions with 77 to 96 per cent—and Sister McConkie with 96 per cent for the California Mission. It all adds up. Now I turn to pages 330 331 and ask why; -, and are just not "in the swim?" —John A. Israelson, Hyrum, Utah I have always shared the wonderful Relief Society Magazine with my mother. Now that I have moved I still want her to be able to enjoy the Magazine. The stories are always uplifting and the articles spur one on to greater thoughts. I never want to miss an issue. —Evelyn C. Christensen, Gooding, Idaho I have been taking The Relief Society Magazine for quite some time. The lessons are a source of strength and encouragement to me and I enjoy reading the conference sermons as well as the stories.. —Mrs.
Zola Larsen, Reseda, California eAdd to your Personal Libra ry: -~— + SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS2.00 By President George Albert Smith ON THE WAY TO IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE ow 93.00 By President J. Reuben Clark
VITALITY OF MORMONISM 52.00 By James E. Talmage WAY TO PERFECTION$1.75 By Elder Joseph Fielding Smith TRUTH SEEKER AND MORMONISM _.51.00 By Joseph F. Merrill (By Mail $1.15) A VOICE FROM THE DUST 54.00
Illustrated Book of Mormon —<- Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah or your local Book Dealer. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ISIQIRMIT No. 690 A Fathers Joy! Yes—and a father s responsibility! Have you protected your little ones against the uncertainties of life and the humiliation of charity. Have you guaranteed that they will never want for bread and butter, clothing, and their mother's time. For fathers with growing children, there is no substitute for life insurance. Q George Albert Senth, Pres.:: Selt Late City, Uteh Ww - ' - \