[You Can Learn — Part V by Catherine Kelly]

Learn Part V G Gs for Glness and Y Gs for Jolt Katherine Kelly RNIE was crying with indignation as he tagged me through the wet corral.
There wasn't much I could do about it, with a bucket of foamy white milk in each hand. I lifted the milk carefully through the bars of the pole fence, and, with it safely on the other side, I turned to help Ernie. The long coat I had put on him had come unbuttoned, and he had tripped and fallen. His little fat hands were covered with ditt, and he held them up to me beseechingly. "Don't cry, sweetheart, we'll wash them as soon as we get to the house," I soothed, as I lifted him gingerly through the fence and kissed his little tear-stained face. "You're Mama's big boy who helps with the chores, and when Daddy comes home he will be proud of you." Inside, I was all swelled with pride, too. Tom was going to be surprised at me today, when he arrived home from his mother's. I wondered how I could ever have been so helpless; but it hadn't been easy. The first night Tom was gone I had started milking before sundown, and the moon was shining high before I had finished the first cow. Tom hadn't wanted his wife to milk cows, but it's surprising what you can do when you have to.
Last night's rain had made everything fresh and beautiful. The new  green leaves on our little trees danced in the sunlight. The trees hadn't even been in bud six weeks ago, when we took Tom to town. A slight chill stopped the song in my heart for a second, as I remembered. EK KK & EVER would I forget that night! Tom had had the influenza first, and then had gone out too soon. The backset which resulted had caused gatherings in his ears. But that night the swelling had disappeared, and we _ had thought he was much better. I had gone to sleep, feeling relieved, and was so sound asleep that it seemed as if I were struggling up... And up through the warm depths of sleep. Was someone calling me? It wasn't morning yet. I must have been dreaming! The warm blackness was slipping over me again when Tom's voice brought me sharply to my feet. "Kate, Katie!
Come here quick." At once I was wide awake, and at Tom's bedside in a flash. "What is it, Tom? Is something wrong?" "Yes. I'm hungry. Get me something to eat!" 'Something to eat?
This time of night? Oh, Tom, can't you wait till morning? The fire is all out, and it's cold.. Here, let me cover you better." "No, I'm not cold. I'm roasting, YOU CAN LEARN and I'm starving to death! I've got to have something to eat." Tom's voice was unnatural and high-pitched, and, as I tried to pull the covers up, his hands caught mine, and they were hot and dry. I put my hand on his forehead. It was burning hot. "If you don't get me something to eat, I'll get it myself." "No, Tom. You keep covered up. Ill get you something." My hands were shaking as I felt for the matches and lighted the coal-oil lamp we used at night.
What should he have to eat when he had such a fever? I couldn't let him get up in the cold. So, without bothering to get my robe, I hurried into the kitchen. The pan of milk I had saved out the night before stood on the pantry shelf.
Mary had sent us over a loaf of graham bread. I poured a bowl full of milk and quickly broke some bread into it. Tom _ was threshing about restlessly as I hurried back to him. "Will this do, Tom? It will soon be morning." His hands were shaking and he couldn't feed himself, so I put one of Ernie's blankets around my shoulders and sat down on the side of the bed. I finally got him to rest back on the pillows while I fed him spoonful by spoonful. He ate ravenously, and his eyes darted from one thing to another with a wild look like a trapped animal. "This sure tastes good," he said in a harsh voice. "It's the best meal I've had in ages." My eyes opened wide and my mouth wider. "Why, Tom." Then, with new credulity, I asked 461 him, "What are you eating, Tom?" "Why, turkey and dressing and everything! You ought to know. You fixed it." So that was it! The sickness had taken a new turn. Tom was out of his head! "There, there, I'm glad you like it, dear. Now do you think you can lie back and go to sleep?" Tom sank back against the pillows and allowed me to pull the covers up around him, but his eyes still darted here and there, and they had a queer, sly look. "No, 'm not sleepy. I'm not a bit sleepy," he insisted. "I've got to tell you something so you won't worry while I'm sick. We'll never have to worry about money any more. We're rich!" "Yes, I know 'Tom. As long as we have each other and little Ernie, we are rich," I answered soothingly. "No, I know you haven't worried," he explained in a high-pitched, resentful voice. "I haven't wanted © you to worry. But I've worried plenty, not only about the mortgages on the farm and on the house, but about the money we owe Dad."
Mortgages on the farm and on the house!
Money we owed Tom's father! Well, yes, I guess, in a way, I had known we owed some money on a couple of notes. I remembered Tom had brought them for me to sign right after we were married. It had made me feel important that Tom had to have my name beside his, now that I was his wife. But mortgages on the farm and on the house, and money we owed Dad Kelly! Oh, why hadn't Tom told me! No, I hadn't worried about money, I was too busy planting 462 trees and making grass grow on land that didn't even belong to us. OM was raving on about some sort of lawsuit whereby we had become rich.
Money matters had worried him so much that now they were the whole theme of his delir1um! "What are you going to do with all your money, Tom?" I asked to quiet him. | - A look of rapture came into his eyes. "First, I'm going to buy you a new coat. I won't have my wife going shabby." "But, Tom, my coat isn't bad, and, anyway, it's practically summer now " I knew by his eyes that I had said the wrong thing, so I added hurriedly, "Oh, yes, 'Tom, a beautiful brown coat with a fox fur collar!" Tom continued to name all the things he planned to buy. "And I'm going to get Joe a new mowing machine. We've fixed up that old rattletrap of his long enough. And I want a fine new team of work horses and new fencing...." Tom talked on and on.
Some of it wasn't rational, but most of it was only too clear. All the worries over money Tom had kept locked in his heart. He certainly was the strong, silent type. I had never dreamed these things went on in his mind. As the dim, gray morning light crept into the room, he slept fitfully, and I dressed and ran through the fields to Joe's and Mary's house to telephone the doctor. We took him to town to his mother's house, where he could have expert care. Our doctor called  in another doctor from the hospital in Glendale, and they had a consultation. The infection which had been in Tom's head after the "flu" had formed a gathering in his upper sinus.
There was only the thinnest possible partition between the infection and the brain. 'There was only the slightest chance that he would ever recover. But he had recovered. HERE had been long weeks of uncertainty and pain and days that dragged until the hardest kind of work was a boon to me. I learned about money, too.
There just wasn't any, except the weekly cream check, and there wouldn't be that if I didn't strip the cows well and see that they were fed and watered. But now it was all over. Tom would find a real woman in place of the helpless young girl he had left six weeks before. The house was spick-and-span, and Ernie and | donned our Sunday best for the occasion. I put Ernie in the front seat beside me and drove the old Chev into town. As we stopped in front of Tom's father's place, the whole family was out on the porch to see Tom off. He was sitting in a rocking chair, and he still looked pale and thin. I wanted to run up the steps and hug and kiss him, as Ernie did, but I remembered in time that such things embarrassed him. "Well, Tom, we've come to take you home," I called gayly. "Here's the Chev!" Tom's face clouded, for a moment, then half jokingly, he asked, "Are you still driving that old car? Why don't you use the new one?"
INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUT} | REOWOOD RCAL SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84107 YOU CAN LEARN I sank to my knees in front of his chair and put my arms around him. "Oh, Tom, dear, you know we haven't any new car. A dream you had while you were sick. I'm so sorry you had to get sick to make me understand about money, but believe me, from now on I know, and I will help you. ToThat was © 463 gether we will make enough money to pay off the mortgages, and then we'll really be rich and you won't have to worry any more." The summer air was warm and sweet. Tom looked at me lovingly, and I meant every word I had said about money. A Letter a Mlother MY DEAR CHILDREN: How grateful I am that you are my children! We have had so many wonderful years together.
Much now. And how very glad I am that No wonder I miss you all so How are the dear little folks? Wish I could tuck them in tonight. 4 We have heard it said frequently that children should be seen and 'not heard. But sometimes I wonder if this is always true.
Should a child never have an inning? The other day after Sunday School, I heard a young mother remark to a friend, "How in the world do you keep your children from monopolizing the conversation whenever they are around?" She brushed her small son aside with, 'Keep still, Junior.
Mother wants to talk." I knew the little fellow and, since I was standing near, I put an arm around his shoulders and said, 'How are you this morning?"" He immediately transferred his enthusiastic remarks to me. "In our class this morning," he said excitedly, "the teacher told us that God is a man like my daddy and the bishop, and all the other men!"' he confided. "Isn't it wonderful?" I said. "Be sure to ask your daddy about it when you get home." Now here was a pertinent thought. He had been informed about one of our | most profound beliefs, but his mind had not been able to grasp the whole significance of the idea. He needed confirmation.
What a fine opportunity for a parent to step in and continue the teaching, while it was fresh in the child's mind. We pray that our children will always remain steadfast and true to our religious concepts, but do they understand fully what it is all about? My dear ones, I hope you enjoy your children. I hope that you look often into their trusting eyes and read the meaning behind what they say.
Please write to me often.
From becoming too oppressive.
Your interesting letters keep the silence in my home from becoming too oppressive.

With dearest love,
MOTHER
Clara Horne Park