["Come and Follow Me" by Mary Grant Judd]

"Come and Follow Me" (Matt. 19:21). Objective: To call to mind that there is a path which, if followed, will lead to happiness here and hereafter.
Lesson 10. "Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" (Mark 13:33). Objective:, To bring out the vital power of prayer, and the need for habitual prayer.
Lesson 11. "Search the Scriptures for They Are They Which Testify of Me" (John 5:39). Objective: To give incentive for a greater familiarity with the scriptures, particularly those in the Book of Mormon appropriate to Christmas.
Lesson 12. "For What Shall It Profit a Man If He Shall Gain the Whole World and Lose His Own Soul?" (Mark 8:36). Objective: To stress that the chief aim of life should be the saving of the soul of man.
Lesson 13. "Forgive, and Ye Shall Be Forgiven" (Luke 6:37). Objective: To define what constitutes true forgiveness and to point out why forgiveness has a two-fold aspect.
Lesson 14. "A New Commandment I Give Unto You, That Ye Love One Another As I Have Loved You" (John 13:34). Objective: To show the all-inclusiveness of the pattern of love which Christ gives us to follow.
Lesson 15. "And Jesus Answering Saith Unto Them, Have Faith in God" (Mark 11:22).
LESSON DEPARTMENT Objective: To point out that faith in God is fundamental to true success in life. Lesson 16. "Lo, I Am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the 479
World" (Matt. 28:20). Objective: To leave a concluding message of hope and comfort in all the homes visited. Ussiting Seacher ITlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 9—"Come and Follow Me" (Matt. 19:21). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, October 3, 1950
Objective: To call to mind that there is a path which, if followed, will lead to happiness here and hereafter. HIS is a day when there are concerted movements afoot for the possession of men's minds. 'This ideology or that ideology is presented as the magic formula to solve the perplexities of this troubled world. And yet these few simple words uttered by our Master— "Come and follow me" (Matt. 19:21) would, if heeded, set our footsteps in that path which will bring us peace of mind and true success. Some of the phases of life which appear so simple, are, when we attempt to live them, found to be really difficult to achieve. For example, we all profess love of the Savior. We feel sure that were he here today to ask of us the same question asked of Peter, '"Lovest thou me?" our answer would be the same as that given by the great disciple, "Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee" (John 21:16). And, vet, by the rule that Christ himself set, could we honestly say that we love him? He tells us that if we love him we will keep his commandments. He goes further and states which are the most important commandments: namely, to love the Lord with all our hearts, might, mind, and strength, and to love our neighbors as ourselves. This is not always easy to do. As with the rich young man in the time of Christ, so with us today, there is ever that conflict between our striving for material possessions and for worldly honors and our desire to conform to the teachings of our Savior. To consistently follow in the footsteps of the Master, is to make a daily habit of so doing. Only in this way can we gain and keep the momentum necessary to sustain us when the going is difficult. A mechanical engineer states that it requires six times as much power to start a fly wheel from a dead stop as it does to keep it going once it is in motion. Let us get our spiritual mechanisms in good running order and never allow them to slow down, 480 remembering that "no man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:62). Beginning in our own homes and in our own  communities, let us walk in the path that the Savior pointed out. Only by so doing can we consistently answer his call, "Come and follow me." + Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Christine H. Robinson HE work meeting lessons for 1950-51, "The Art of HomeMaking," have three fundamental objectives. First, they are designed to show all Latter-day Saint women how, through the intelligent application of a few simple principles and guides, they can make their - homes more livable and attractive. Second, they are planned to encourage all Relief Society members, through full use of their own talents and skills, to be real homemakers as well as fine housekeepers. Third, they have the objective of encouraging all of us, through more thoughtful planning, to furnish our homes with maximum economy. The home and our family unit lie at the heart of the gospel plan. As Latter-day Saints we are homeloving people. We know the important part a successful home can play in the molding of sound characters and in the development of wholesome personalities. With these fundamental convictions, we must constantly do everything within our powers to create the kind of homes which make us happy and in which our children can feel a sense of security and pride. Although it takes more than carpets, furniture, draperies, pictures, mirrors, and other furnishings to make a home, these physical things, when selected with good taste and intelligence, can do much to establish an appropriate atmosphere in which the real spirit of the home can develop. This course of study consists of eight lessons covering various basic home decorating problems. Each lesson, after a discussion of principles, methods, and _ techniques, lists a number of discussion points. These discussion points are designed as springboards for. Group discussions. Rather than using them merely as questions to be answered during the lesson period, we suggest you employ them as assignments, for the purpose of bringing in additional materials of specific interest to the members of your society. The subjects of the lessons are as follows: oe?
Lesson 1. "Let's be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers." This is an introductory lesson designed to establish the importance of the home, and to indicate some of the interesting challenges faced by the successful homemaker.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 2. Color in the Home. Color is the number one-element in superior decorating. We can produce beautiful color harmonies in our homes by correct application of the following guides: suitability to the individual and the home; proper balance of colors; building a_ color scheme. Lesson 3. Draperies and Curtains. The important part curtains and draperies play in your decorating scheme; guides in the selection of curtain and drapery materials; the use of valances and cornices. Lesson 4. Slipcovers and Dressing Table Skirts. The use of slipcovers in your home decorating; guides in choosing the correct fabrics for slipcovers; dressing table skirts can express your own tastes and desires; rule to remember in planning dressing tables. Lesson 5. Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings. 481
Types of suitable floor coverings; selecting the right color for your floor covering.
Lesson 6.
Choosing and Arranging Furniture. How to choose appropriate furniture; basic rules for arranging furniture for comfort and livability.
Lesson 7. Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories. The important role pictures play in your decorating scheme; guides for selecting pictures; size of pictures; grouping pictures effectively.
Selecting and hanging mirrors. The use of china plates and brackets as interesting wall accessories.
Lesson 8. Table Settings and Service.
Importance of proper table settings.
Selecting table linens, silver, and china.
Inexpensive and appropriate table decorations.
Serving food attractively. Work Mleeting—The Art of Homemaking Lesson 1—Let's Be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 10, 1950 OMEONE has said: Most of the great things of life are free. We can pay for pleasures and luxuries, but we cannot buy love. We can buy large houses and extravagant furnishings, but we cannot give gold for peace of mind or for happiness. It is common things that make us content, not luxuries; not palatial houses, but real homes.
Kind friends, encouraging words, loving deeds, duty done, heartaches healed, a clasp, a kiss, a smile, a song, a welcome—these are the beams that bring summer into the soul and make us lighthearted, free, and glad.* Today, more than during any other period in the history of the world, adults, as well as children, need homes which are built and maintained for the comfort, happiness, and security of those who live in them. We need homes which are havens of rest, which can resist the tremendous pressures of our *Adapted from The New Book of Etiquette, by Lillian Eichler, page 47, Garden City Publishing Company, Inc., New York. 482 modern age. Our homes should help us establish correct patterns of right living; they should abound in love, order, and consideration for others. We Latter-day Saints, in particular, to whom the home and the family are of such great importance, must make sure that we practice real homemaking in all of its aspects. The role of a homemaker differs considerably from that of a housekeeper. The main objective of a housekeeper is to provide for the physical and material needs of the family.
While this is an important element of homemaking, the real homemaker thinks not only of the physical comforts of the family, but she is equally concerned with its spiritual, intellectual, and emotional development. It is her joy to see that the family resources of money, time, and personal talents bring the greatest returns in health, happiness, and enjoyment to the individual members of the family unit. The fine art of homemaking is composed of many elements, each one essential in its own right. The wise selection of food, clothing, and a place of shelter are the first essentials of life. Usually, however, these in and of themselves do not provide the greatest satisfaction. One of the most universally desired satisfactions is the need for beauty. The idea of what constitutes beauty varies with knowledge, training, and personal taste. However, whatever our standard for beauty, the pleasure we derive from it is something very real and lasting. Our homes offer countless opportunities for us to express this sense of beauty; and also to help us cultivate a taste for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY.1950 it. The furnishing of our home, with the skillful employment of the principles of interior decoration, becomes an art in itself which can add immeasurably to the pleasure, satisfaction, and real physical and spiritual comfort of the family.
Appropriate home decoration affords opportunity to express the desire for beauty which is inherent in all of us. It helps cultivate the esthetic taste of the child and thus increases his source for future wholesome enjoyment. Furthermore, the common interest and joy of a lovely home is a definite element in developing a sense of family unity.
Families which take genuine pride in the artistic qualities of their home furnishings, however simple and inexpensive they may be, will discover that these things stand out among the intimate memories of their lives.
This interest in the home will help the child to carry the tradition of looking for the beautiful into his later life. To find beauty in the things about us and to be able to create something of it ourselves, means new opportunities for a higher standard of living, better homes, more completely rounded personalities, and happier families.
With all the competitions of modern living, it becomes more important than ever before for every woman to be a homemaker rather than just a housekeeper.
Each of us must develop her own talents and build upon them for greater family unity, more love, and more enjoyment in our homes. In decorating our homes tastefully we have an important opportunity to accomplish these ends.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Discussion Points 1. Show how the statement "The great things of life are free' can be applied to the art of homemaking. 2. Discuss some of the modern influences in and out of the home which compete with family unity and interests. 483 3. Expand on the thought that homemakers, as contrasted with housekeepers, are concerned with the spiritual, intellectual, and emotional development of their families. 4. Discuss the effect of attrative home surroundings upon the development of personality. ><>. Eee Fo— lhe Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Elder Briant S. Jacobs UR literature course will continue the study of English literature begun last year. For the teachers who are carrying on, there should be no problem of a text, since they are familiar with our source book: Woods, Watt, Anderson — The Literature of England, volume I, Scott Foresman and Company.
If a beginning teacher finds that her predecessor used her own personal copy of the text, or if, for any reason, the ward has never owned a copy, she may ask that ward Relief Society funds be used to procure our text from the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, for $4.50, $4.75 postpaid. A constant familiarity with this book is one great secret for the achievement of vital, rewarding teaching. Our goal is: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith" (D.&C. 109:7). The course of study objective remains unchanged, and bears repeating: "To earn and share that high pleasure which only literature and a sense of the past can give." In working toward such an end, we hope to bring to life, and within us, the full meaning of our Thirteenth Article of Faith; we also follow the admonition of Paul, which says, "Prove all things; hold fast that which is good" (I Thess. 5:21). It has often been said, but not nearly so often heard with the true inner ear of the mind and spirit, that literature is life. We must also hear again the words of Matthew Arnold wherein he defines literature as "the best that has been thought and said in the world." 'That life is very real, and that we are alive and in the midst of it, each one of us knows. And, in harmony with the best thinkers, we think about our lives, and finally come to talk about what we think and see to be true in the actualities of daily life. While some of the greater souls among us have had keen insight into the truths of life, only very rarely have these truths been preserved in permanent form. When truths are merely talked about they are either lost entirely or become so twisted and colored in the repeating that their force is lost. To the writers of all ages who have bothered to record the truths of 484 life as they saw them, we are eternally grateful. They felt their impressions about life were not useful only for the moment and then to be discarded. And whether their thoughts have proved to be of primary or secondary value, they were considerate enough to leave them tous. | Inevitably, of course, some of these recordings—indeed the vast majority— have been produced by average minds. Writers, like readers, can only "hear what they understand." Some few have given to us eternal truths which stand the test of time forever, which help us to live and know each other better. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950
This is the literature which we must always seek, and study, and then, finally, come to love. The titles for the eight lessons follow: Lesson 9. Paradise Lost Lesson 10. Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes Lesson 11. John Dryden Lesson 12. Richard Steele Joseph Addison Lesson 13. Jonathan Swift Lesson 14. Alexander Pope Lesson 15. Oliver Goldsmith Lesson 16. Samuel Johnson and James Boswell and sbitorotane — line Literature of England Lesson 9—Paradise Lost Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 17, 1950 OUR final lesson in May was concerned with Milton and his lesser works; it was also designed as an introduction to the present lesson. A review of this lesson (printed in the February 1950 issue of the Magazine) will, therefore, help to provide background and continuity for our present study, as will a scanning of the recommended background reading in our text (Woods, Watt, Anderson, The Literature of England, I, pp. 564-575, 579-580, 638-039).
More than all else in his life— perhaps as a combination of all else—John Milton was one of the greatest pioneers of the human mind and spirit. William Shakespeare his one serious competitor in the English tongue, knew mankind so well that, as he re-created their foibles and strengths, he became for the moment whatever character he was creating, and thus became all men. An attempt to construct a biography or a clear word picture of Shakespeare from his works meets with failure.
Laborious research by Shakespearean scholars has amassed some knowledge of the poet's life, but it has largely failed to give us a personality we can understand and know. The creation of such quantity and quality, the perfection of so many varied characterizations, and the genius of word usage and dramatic power, serve to hide rath- LESSON DEPARTMENT