THE STAR AND THE CROSS
By Ann Jarvis
"He comes, the Christus comes," the angels sang Amidst a glory that enshrouded earth And filled the heavens with celestial light. One Star shone brighter, clearer than the rest, Eclipsing with a golden light the moon's Pale silver and the faintly glowing sparks Of common skies. A Child of woman born? The shepherds and the wise men seeking found; Yet even as His Star out-shone its brethren, This Babe was purer, finer than the rest, Raised far above the little sons of men, A Teacher of Mankind, the Son of God.
Years passed. That Star, forgotten in men's minds Long since, had turned into a Cross Which stood in silhouette against the sky, Contrasted with the angry fire from God, Black, cheerless, mingling with the stormy darkness. A cry of stifled agony, "Forgive them, Father, For they know not what they do!" Stillness reigned On Calvary and mortals wept for Him.
And so today when I behold His Star In fancy far above that church's steeple, Casting its beams on yonder man-made cross; I think of Him, the simple life He led, Pure, noble, and the Promise He fulfilled, Those crowning incidents in His life span Which symbolize the beginning, not the end.
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
IT is the Christmas month. Hearts beat warmer, and thoughts are kindlier because long years ago in far away Bethany a Man was born, who taught a sinful world the gospel of love. In memory of Him, shepherds still bring gifts and angels sing, "Peace on earth, good will to men."
HELEN KELLAR, miracle girl, won the Pictorial Review achievement prize this year for her work for the blind. This $5,000 added to the gifts of Jane Addams and Carrie Chapman Catt, prize winners of the last two years, completes the fund for the Foundation for the Blind built up by the individual efforts of Miss Kellar.
MISS PHYLLIS MARSHALL, also blind, is dramatic director for the Lighthouse Players. These blind players have built their own Little Theatre and are doing marvelous work under her direction.
EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY has revived a one-act play written in college days called "The Princess Marries the Page," a charming piece of blank verse. While not pretentious it is surprisingly delightful.
KATHERINE BURCH, novelist, has become columnist for College Humor.
PEARL BUCK of Good Earth fame is now in America where she contemplates writing a third book, further interpreting China.
PHYLLIS BENTLEY'S novel "Inheritance" follows the Galsworthy saga idea of family life through several generations. It is the story of an English family in the textile industry.
CHARLOTTE PRENTIS BROWNING, 96, has written her memoirs called "Full Harvest." Age seems neither to have dimmed her mind or memory. The book is most interesting. She sums up her experiences in this phrase, "To all who would know the crowning joys of life I recommend the nineties."
EDNA SEARCY, age 17, of Louisiana having heard that produce in lieu of cash would be accepted in tuition at the State University appeared on the campus one day driving nine head of cattle. She was admitted to the University all right.
"SANTA DICA" of San Paulo, Brazil, is a second Joan of Arc. After many prophetic visions she donned a white uniform buckled on her sword and led a large army against federal troops fighting the San Paulo rebels.
FRANCES ELIZABETH WILLIS has taken charge of the American Mission at Stockholm, Sweden. The first woman minister in our diplomatic service. The minister left on a furlough and she cabled Secretary of State Stimson, "The minister left last night. I have assumed charge." Signed "Willis."
THE HON. KATHERINE PLUNKETT of Ireland, the oldest woman in the British Isles, died recently at the age of 112. She scorned nearly everything modern even England's great humorist Bernard Shaw. She lived through the reigns of four sovereigns and recalled Sir Walter Scott, Palmerston, Disraeli and Gladstone.