A Holiday Luncheon
By Lucy Rose Middleton
AS variety is the spice of life, so hospitality is the spice of Christmas. The spirit of good cheer and happiness is everywhere. Everyone loves the holidays; oh yes, everyone except old Scrooge. And, if I remember right, even he changed his ideas on the subject?so that makes it unanimous. Entertaining at this time becomes a gracious social custom. From the White House, with all its beauty and splendor to the humblest home of the land there is no exception. For days and probably weeks beforehand the hostess is planning the means of giving most pleasure to the guests she hopes to entertain. A very important part of such social affairs as everybody knows, is settling the momentous question "What shall I serve my guests?" The hostess may feel at a loss to find something not only appropriate, but having the charm of novelty. In her planning she should aim for simplicity and perfection of detail. Here is a menu which carries out the Christmas color scheme, is easy to prepare and will delight your guests. A small Christmas tree or red flowers with white candles will make an attractive center-piece. Artificial snow sprinkled around the tree will also help. Santa Claus favors can easily be made on toothpicks, using red gum drops, marshmallows and currants.
MENU
Clear Tomato Soup. Whipped Cream. Veal Loaf. French Fried Potatoes. Cranberry Salad. Cloverleaf Rolls. Hot Cherry Punch. Christmas Pudding. With Maraschino Sauce.
Clear Tomato Soup
1 quart can tomatoes. 1 cup water. 2 stalks celery. 4 slices carrot. 1/2 small onion. 1 small green pepper. 3 cloves. 1/2 teaspoon peppercorns. Blade of mace. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Salt. Pepper.
Put tomatoes and water in saucepan, add celery cut in pieces, carrot, onion, green pepper (from which the seeds have been removed), cloves, peppercorns, and mace. Bring to boiling point and let simmer for 15 minutes. Strain, and add lemon juice, salt and pepper. Cool and clear. When ready to serve, heat, and to each serving add one teaspoon of whipped cream.
A HOLIDAY
Veal Loaf
Knuckle of veal, sawed in pieces. 1 pound of lean veal. 1 onion. Salt and pepper. 3 hard cooked eggs. 4 tablespoons chopped parsley.
Cover knuckle and lean meat with boiling water. Add onion and cook slowly until meat is tender. Drain, chop meat fine, and season highly with salt and pepper. Garnish bottom of mold with egg slices and parsley. Put in layer of meat, layer of egg slices, sprinkle with parsley and cover with remaining meat. Pour over the liquor, which should be reduced to 1 cupful. Press, chill, and garnish with parsley. Remove from pan and cut in thin slices for serving.
French Fried Potatoes
Wash and pare potatoes, cut in eighths lengthwise. Soak one hour in cold water to cover. Drain. Dry between towels. Fry a few at a time in hot deep fat (370 degrees) until delicately browned and drain on brown paper. Heat fat to higher temperature (390 degrees) and return all the potatoes to fat, using frying basket, and fry until crisp and brown, keeping the basket in motion. Again drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. Serve hot.
Cranberry Jelly Salad
2 cups cranberries. 1 cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar. 1 1/2 tablespoons granulated gelatine soaked in 1/4 c. Cold water. 1/2 cup finely cut apples or celery. 1/2 cup chopped nut meats. Mayonnaise dressing. Lettuce.
Cook the cranberries and water for 20 minutes. Force through strainer. Add soaked gelatine, stir until gelatine is dissolved, and add
LUNCHEON
731
sugar. When mixture begins to thicken, fold in apples or celery and nut meat. Mold and chill. Slice and serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing.
Mayonnaise Dressing
1/2 teaspoon mustard. 1/2 teaspoon sugar. 1/2 teaspoon salt. Few grains cayenne. 1 egg yolk. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 3/4 cup salad oil. 1 tablespoon lemon juice.
Sift first 4 ingredients into a bowl, and add egg yolk, mix thoroughly, and add vinegar, while stirring constantly. Add 3 teaspoons oil, a few drops at a time, while beating constantly; then 1 tablespoon at a time until mixture thickens. When very thick add lemon juice and remainder of oil rapidly. Mayonnaise should be stiff enough to hold its shape. It soon liquifies when added to meats or vegetables; therefore it should be added just before serving time. The whole egg may be used in making mayonnaise dressing. The oil is increased to 1 1/4 cups and the mustard decreased to 1/4 teaspoon. The other above ingredients are the same.
Cloverleaf Rolls. Follow the Standard Roll recipe given in November magazine. Shape dough in tiny balls, brush edges with melted butter, place 3 in each section of greased muffin tins. Let rise until double in bulk, then bake.
Hot Cherry Punch
1 quart water. 2 cups sugar. 1/2 cup lemon juice. 1 cup orange juice. 3 to 4 cups cherry juice.
Boil water and sugar together for
 
10 minutes. Add fruit juices, strain. Dilute with water. Serve hot.
Christmas Pudding
3 cups dry bread crumbs. 1 to 2 cups water or milk. 3 eggs, well beaten. 1/2 cup chopped raisins. 1/2-1 pkg. Figs, cut into strips. 1/2-1 pkg. Dates, cut into strips. 3 teaspoons nutmeg. 1/2 teaspoon allspice. 1/2 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 1/2 cup chopped nuts. 2/3 cup sugar.
Soak bread crumbs in liquid, the amount varies with the dryness of the crumbs. The mixture should be of soft dough consistency. Sift the dry ingredients together and mix with the fruits and nuts. Mix the eggs with the soaked crumbs and add dry ingredients. Steam in oiled molds for 3 hours. Serve with Maraschino Sauce.
Maraschino Sauce
2 1/2 cup boiling water. 1/2 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1/2 cup Maraschino cherries cut in halves. 1/2 cup Maraschino syrup. 1/2 tablespoon butter.
Mix sugar and cornstarch, add gradually to boiling water, stirring constantly. Boil 5 minutes, and add cherries, syrup, and butter.
A Christmas Lullaby
By Ada Hurst Brown
OUR fairy world is white and still, For snow has covered town and hill; Hark! The Slumber King creeps nigh, So hear my crooning lullaby.
Hush, my baby, close your eyes, Christmas candles light the skies, Stars of winter winking through Where the clouds have left the blue.
Years ago the Christchild slept, While His mother vigil kept, Now He watches o'er His sheep, And blesses lambkins while they sleep.