Notes to the Field
PRIESTHOOD Interest in Relief Society Work, as manifested by the excellent attendance of bishops and other Priesthood officers at Relief Society conventions, is a source of delight and encouragement to our workers everywhere. The broad and clear understanding of the Relief Society social welfare work, which the brethren have, is one of the best assurances of its success and effectiveness. Whoever understands Relief Society work is an enthusiastic booster for it.
Work and Business Meeting Socials, in times of stress and anxiety, when the spirits of the sisters are depressed, preserve one of the most wholesome and healthful traditions of Mormon pioneer life. Amid all the cares of the Exodus, and of the Settlement of the West, our wise and valiant leaders led the Saints in wholesome social activities, and thereby afforded them release from the strain which care and hardship brought. From it the weary Saints took new strength and courage. Today Relief Society socials start up hope and vigor anew, and help our sisters to meet life with a smile.
The Missionary Fund is a Priesthood responsibility, and the raising, administering and disbursing of it a Priesthood, not a Relief Society activity. However, to mothers it is a most attractive and appealing cause, for which they sacrifice, and to which they contribute freely.
Demonstrators of food values and conservation, home management and remodeling from the Extension Divisions of the various colleges are available to many Relief Societies on work and business meeting days. As often as such features can be included in the program of these meetings, without interfering with major Relief Society projects, they should be used.
Lessons: We hear some complaint about the lessons being difficult and too long. It is the duty of the class leader to take what she considers are the most important parts of the lesson and emphasize them rather than trying to give more than the time will allow. Often people cast aside material after a cursory reading when if they would reread the material again and again it would become clear and would arrange itself in their minds. They would then have the joy that comes from mastering difficulties, overcoming obstacles and the thrill that comes with mental growth.