VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1891.	No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Constitution of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association. In Memoriam—L. L.
Greene Richards. Eighty Years Old. Sympathy
—Mary Y. Corby. A Box on the Ear. Forgive-
ness. R. S. Report—Cassia Stake. W. S. A.,
S. L. Co. The White Cross Movement in Edu-
cation. A Pleasant Gathering. Self-Sacrifice.
Old Maids Organize—Ex. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORIAL:—Agitation is Educational. Edi-
torial Notes. Love-God-Now,—S. W. Richards.
Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself—Eliza D. Gibbs.
Executive Session.
	POETRY:—‘‘Does Love Forget?”— Woman’s
Journal. Regret—Jean Ingelow. Fancy’s Pano-
rama—E. B. W. Unto the Least of These—
Louise Betts Edwards. At Evening—E. B. W.


“DOES LOVE FORGET?”
“Does love forget all it forgives?” once said
The fair young Greek, who sadly learned to know,
Though much we love, we ne’er forget a blow.
The scar itself remains, though pain is dead,
And was forgiven when the wound was red.
True love remembers, but forbears to show
The hand that only should caress bestow,—
The hand that to sweet waters should have led.
The perfume that in flower unconscious lives,
The light that paints to tints the dullest forms,
Are not more subtle than the love that warms
The human heart. From Him who much forgives
It comes, A gift divine,—a touch as yet
Of perfect love that needs not to forget.
	Woman’s Journal.


REGRET.
Oh, that word regret!
There have been nights and morns when we have sighed
“Let us alone, regret! We are content
To throw thee all our past, so thou wilt sleep
For aye.” But it is patient, and it wakes:
It hath not learned to cry itself to sleep,
But ’plaineth on the bed that it is hard.
We did amiss when we did wish it gone,
And over: Sorrows humanize our race;
Tears are the showers that fertilize this world;
And memories of things precious keepeth warm
The heart that once did hold them. They are poor
Who have lost nothing; they are poorer far
Who, losing, have forgotten; they most poor
Of all who lose and wish they might forget.
For life is one, and in its warp and woof
There runs a thread of gold that glitters fair
And sometimes in the pattern shows most sweet
Where there are somber colors. It is true
That we have wept. But oh, this thread of gold,
We would not have it tarnish; let us turn
Oft and look back upon the wondrous web,
And when it shineth sometimes we shall know 
That memory is possession.
	JEAN INGELOW.


FANCY’S PANORAMA.
I see, within the shadows of past years,
	A panorama all unrolled to view,
In many places blurred with woman’s tears, 
	But life-like in its outlines, clear and true.
Visions of wildest fancies come and go,
	And whisp’rings of some dear delicious hours;
And soft and deep and musical the flow
	Of mem’ries river murm’ring ’mid life’s bow’rs.
How silently we summon to our aid
	The monitors then wont to be our guide,


And where our weary feet ’mong brambles stray’d,
	And sorely in our anguish we were tried.
Stern duty was our motto, and we sought
	To tread the narrow path, and trust in God,
Braving life’s battles though with perils fraught,
	And bowing meekly ’neath the chastening rod.
And brighter grew the way as years rolled on,
	And light beam’d up where all around was dark,
And well we deem’d it that some toil was done
	E’en though accomplished by a glim’ring spark.
’Tis pleasant thus to contemplate, at times,
	The pictures which remembrance conjures up,
List’ning to echoing bells of long-lost chimes,
	Though seemingly we drain the bitter cup,
’Tis but in thought, and life looks brighter still
	By contrast of those ills and griefs and fears; 
And humbly may we our true mission fill
	Through all the changes of the coming years.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
﻿CONSTITUTION OF THE NATIONAL
AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION.

ARTICLE I.
	The name of this Association shall be THE
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION.

ARTICLE II.	
	The object of this Association shall be to
secure protection in their right to vote to the
women citizens of the United States by ap-
propriate National and State Legislation.

ARTICLE III.
	SECTION 1. All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution and
paying not less than one dollar annually into
the treasury of this Association shall become
members thereof, and shall be entitled to at-
tend all its meetings, to participate in all dis-
cussions that may arise, and to receive reports
and other documents published by it.
	SEC. 2. The payment of fifty dollars ($50.-
00) into the treasury of this Association shall
constitute any citizen of the United States a 
Life Member of the Association, with all the
privileges belonging to the regular annual 
members.

ARTICLE IV.
	SECTION 1.  The officers of this Association
shall be a President, a Vice-President-at-large,
a Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secre-
tary, a Treasurer, a Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, and two Auditors. The
officers named in this Section shall be nomi-
nated by an informal ballot at a business ses-
sion of the Annual Convention of the Asso-
ciation. The three persons receiving the
highest number of votes for any office shall be
considered the nominees of the Convention for
that office, and the will of the Association shall 
be taken by a formal ballot.
	SEC. 2. Wherever State or Territorial As-
sociations auxiliary to the National-American
Association exist, the Presidents of such As-
sociations shall be considered Vice-Presidents
of the National-American Association, repre-
senting therein their respective States and
Territories.
	SEC. 3. Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership
one person to serve on the Executive Com-
mittee of the National-American Association.
	SEC. 4. The President of the National-
[Column 2]
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
appoint a Vice-President to represent on its
Executive Board any State or Territory where
no State or Territorial Association exists
auxiliary to the National-American Associa-
tion.
	SEC. 5. The officers enumerated in the pre-
ceding Sections of this Article shall constitute
the Executive Committee of this Association;
of these officers, fifteen shall constitute a 
quorum for the transaction of business.
	SEC. 6. The Executive Committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause
ten or more Honorary Vice-Presidents.
			
ARTICLE V.
	This Constitution may be amended by a
majority vote at any annual meeting, notice of
the amendment having been given at any pre-
ceding annual meeting.

BY-LAWS.
BY- LAW 1.
	For the accomplishment of the object speci-
fied in Article II. of its Constitution, this Asso-
ciation shall seek to concentrate the efforts of
all the advocates of woman suffrage in the
United States by the following methods: (1)
It shall hold annually in Washington one
meeting of delegates (according to the basis of
representation stated in By-Law II.) for the
transaction of business, the election of officers,
and the advocacy of its principles; and it may
hold one or more other conventiens annually
for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It shall
form State or Territorial Associations auxiliary
to itself in every State and Territory where
none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective
States and Territories, it shall promote their
local work by every means in its power. (3)
It shall publish tracts, speeches, and other
documents, and shall furnish the same at actual
cost. (4) It shall prepare and circulate peti-
tions to Congress and to State and Territorial
Legislatures on behalf of the political and civil
equality of women, and take such other
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the
Association.
BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
SECTION 1. Any State or Territorial Wo-
man Suffrage Association may become auxil-
iary to the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association by paying annually into the
treasury of the National-American Association
ten cents per member of the State Society and
of its paid-up local auxiliaries.
SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the Treas-
urer of each auxiliary Association to send to
the Treasurer of the National-American Wo-
man Suffrage Association, before January 1st
in each year, a list certified to by its Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organi-
zation for the current year.
SEC 3. Every such auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
annual convention of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one dele-
gate in addition for every one hundred mem-
bers of the State Society and of its paid-up
local auxiliaries.
	SEC. 4. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association shall be ex-


[Column 1]
﻿officio delegates at large, and every such officer
shall be entitled to one vote in all the business
meetings of the Association.
	
	BY-LAW III.—CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (except the delegates at large
specified in Section 4 of By-Law II.) must
present credentials properly signed by the
President and the Recording Secretary of the
organization represented. Membership cards
properly signed by the Treasurer of the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion shall serve as credentials for the members
of that body who are not delegates from other
bodies.

	BY-LAW IV.
	The Executive Committee of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
hold one session preceding the opening of each 
annual convention in Washington,and another
session after the conclusion of such convention;
and the Committees having in charge the ar-
ragements for the annual convention shall al-
ways take cognizance of such meetings of the
Executive Committee and make provision for
them.
			
	BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the Executive
Committee shall be presented in the form of
recommendations at the business sessions of
the convention.

	BY-LAW VI.
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote
on all questions, but only on the election of
officers shall the delegates be entitled to cast
the full vote to which the organizations repre-
sented by them are entitled.

	BY-LAW VII.
	The Committee on Resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory,
elected by the delegation from the organization
represented. 

	BY-LAW VIII.
	After each annual convention, the Business
Committee shall elect the following Com-
mittees: a Committee on Petitions,a Committee
on Programme, to consist of five persons, one
from each section of the country, and of which
the President shall be chairman, to arrange
the programme for the next annual meeting;
and a Congressional Committee, to have in
charge the direct Congressional work during
the year which shall intervene between the
time of its appointment and the next annual
convention in Washington.
		
	BY-LAW IX.
	The report of the Treasurer up to the first
of January preceding the annual convention
shall be read at the first business session of that
body.

	BY-LAW: X.
	SEC. 1. The General Officers named in
Art. IV., Sec, 1 of the Constitution, viz.: the
President, Vice-President-at-large, Recording
and Corresponding Secretaries, Treasurer,
Chairman of Executive Committee and two
Auditors, with the National Lecturer, shall
constitute a Business Committee to provide for
and control the general interests of the work
in the interim of the annual meetings in Wash-
ington, D, C., and to perform all other busi
ness not otherwise assigned. Of these four
shall constitute a quorum when assembled
after due notice, or a majority may act by
correspondence in response to a circular letter
addressed to every member of the Business
Committee not less than days beforehand, by
the President.
	SEC. 2. The President may call special
meetings of the Business Committee when

[Column 2]
deemed necessary, or in response to the written
request of any three members of the Business
Committee; and shall perform all other duties
usual to such office.
	SEC. 3. The Vice-President-at-large shall
perform all duties of the President in case of
the President’s absence or disability.
	SEC. 4. The Recording Secretary shall at-
tend all business meetings of the Association,
of the Executive Committee and of the Busi-
ness Committee, and the Executive Sessions,
and shall keep a correct record of their pro-
ceedings, and shall give due notice of meetings
of the Executive Committee, and shall apprise
members of committees of their appointment,
and at the first Executive Session of each
annual convention shall read in their order, for
action by said meeting, the minutes of all
meetings of Business and Executive Com-
mittees since the last annual meeting, and shall
also read the report of the Business Committee;
and shall also perform all other duties usually
pertaining to such office.
	SEC. 5. The Corresponding Secretary shall
conduct all correspondence of the organization,
and perform all duties usual to such office; and
shall  also send to the Secretary of each
auxiliary Association notice to prepare a report
of work done by said auxiliary, blanks for
credentials of delegates to the annual meeting
to whom said auxiliary is entitled, and a notice
of the necessity that said auxiliary shall send
dues and list of names and addresses of mem-
bers to the Treasurer of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association.
	SEC. 6. The Treasurer shall keep accurate
accounts of all receipts and disbursements of
money, and shall present a detailed report
thereof to each annual meeting, to be after-
ward published, and shall pay no bill except
on an order signed by the acting President and
Recording Secretary, and at the annual meet-
ing shall give to the chairman of the Com-
mittee on Credentials the whole number of
delegates to which each auxiliary is entitled,
according to the number of members and
amount of dues paid: and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to this office.
	SEC. 7. The Chairman of the Executive
Committee shall preside at all meetings of the
Executive Committee, and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to such office. 
	SEC. 8. The Auditors shall examine and
verify the books of the Treasurer,and shall give
a report thereof at each annual meeting.
	SEC. 9. The General Officers of this As-
sociation shall be elected on the last day but
one of the annual meeting.
	SEC. 10. The term of the General Officers
shall expire at the end of the last session of
the (annual) convention proper, and the term
of the newly-elected officers shall commence
with the session of the Executive Committee
held after the conclusion of the convention
provided for by By-law IV.
	SEC. 11. The Business Committee shall fill
any vacancy that may occur in itself during
the interim of annual meetings.
	SEC. 12. In case of the absence from the
annual convention of the National-American
W. S. A. of a State President or State Mem-
ber of the Executive Committee,the delegation
from that State may elect a proxy to represent
the absentee on the Executive Board during
the convention.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The glorified spirit of the infant is as a star
to guide the mother to its own blissful clime.
—Sigourney.
 	Those men who destroy a healthful constitu-
tion of body by intemperance and an irregular
life do as manifestly kill themselves as those
who hang, or poison, or drown themselves.—
Sherlock.


IN MEMORIAM.

Oh! sweet and perfect rest,
	Which cometh to the blest,
Who have their earthly missions nobly filled;
	The spirit freed from strife,
Springs forth in higher life;
	The feeble mortal pulse alone is stilled.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	On Sunday, June 14th, 1891, the funeral
services of Sister Jane Sabine were held in 
the meeting house of the 20th Ward, Salt 
Lake City. Several of the brethren who
had been acquainted with Sister Sabine from 
her early youth, testified to the goodness
and purity of her heart and her life. She
wae the daughter of Stephen and Maria
Holder and was born at Colern near Box,
Wiltshire, England, November 6th, 1825.
She was married Oct. 9th, 1853, to James
Sabine. On the 6th of April, 1857, she was 
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, by Elder Samuel Neslen,
at Chippenham, in Wiltshire. Emigrated to
Utah in 1868, arriving in Salt Lake City,
Sept. 2nd. She and her husband made their
home in the 20th Ward, where she resided
until her death, which took place at 2
o'clock p.m. June 11, 1891.
	Sister Jane Sabine was one of the many dil-
igent and faithful workers in the Relief So-
ciety whose labors of love will never be for-
gotten by the poor and sorrowing, who are re-
lieved and comforted by acts of kindness from
generous hearts and willing hands. For
many years, Sister Sabine ministered as teach-
er of a district in that branch of the Relief
Society with which she was connected; and
even after being chosen Second Counselor to
President Jane Miller, she still retained the
position of teacher, and faithfully performed
its duties. Only one week previous to the
day of her death, she attended the Fast
meeting and Relief Society meeting, and as-
sisted in arranging and carrying means of
relief to the aged and poor  of the ward.
Two days later, she was suddenly and severe-
ly attacked with pnuemonia, which terminated
fatally in six days. The companionship and
able assistance of Sister Sabine, will be
greatly missed among her friends and asso-
ciates; but to the bereaved husband and children
(a son and a daughter,) and several young
grand-children, her loss cannot be estimated.
But they know in whom to put their trust,
and from whence to seek consolation.
Bless'd children of our God,
	Who, passing 'neath the rod,
Can still look up and say "Thy will be done!"
	And finding sure relief
From loneliness and grief,
	Bow down and praise the Father and the Son.
	L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


EIGHTY YEARS OLD.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe was eighty
years old on the 14th of June, being
one year older than her biographers have
stated. The Hartford Times is authority for
the statement that Mrs Stowe is physically
well, but her mind is clouded and her mem-
ory impaired. She however remembers per-
fectly the old hymns and music with which
she is familiar and it is her habit to walk
over every day to her sister's (Mrs. Hooker),
a quarter of a mile distant, and sing hymns
with her. She is very happy and "her life,
in these, her last years, like a long splendid
summer turning into autumn, may be said
to have reached its late October time,—but
it is still the sunny October afternoon, even
if the sun's light be somewhat curtained by
the gathering autumn haze; and it lapses
away in calm and peace."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE.

	LOUISE BETTS EDWARDS.

Out from homes of want and squalor,
	Little hands are stretched to you,
Empty, eager, mutely pleading.
	All the long, hot summer through,
Little hands lie restless, aimless.
	Can we stand before Him blameless
	If in vain those hands should sue?

From the crowded courts and alleys
	Little voices we can hear,—
Fretful, plaining little voices,
	Lacking all of childhood's cheer.
Little voices, hear them pleading;
Can we go our way unheeding
	While, that cry falls on our ear?
	Housekeeper's Weekly.


AT EVENING.

How softly fall the evening shadows pale,
	Golden and purple sunsets blend and fade;
Night robes earth quietly with mantling veil,
	And peace, and rest the gentle hour pervade.
Great nature, soothing with her potent pow'r.
	Breathes to the "world-worn heart" her sympathy;
And 'mid the tranquil of such spell-bound hour
	The mem'ries of the past steal tenderly.
Athwart the scene the moon with golden trail,
	As'erst, with pitying glance and mellow'd light,
Sweeps through the empty space with steady sail,
	And floods with beauty and enchanted night.
It is the hour for sweet and tender thought,
	And whisperings of the life that is to be
And Faith and Trust with holy impulse fraught,
	Speak, to the soul in nature's poetry.
Unconscious of ourselves we yield to sleep
	And bright-robed beings round our couches stray,
In sacred stillness holy vigils keep,
	And night assumes the sceptre of her sway.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]	
	SYMPATHY.

	How often in times of sorrow these words
recur to our minds—"The heart knoweth its
own bitterness and a stranger intermeddleth 
not with its joys."  Those who have expe-
rienced sorrow of any kind know what it is to
long for sympathy—we have most of us some
sore spot in our heart which needs its soothing
balm.  Sometimes our spirits give way amidst
the fretting cares of life—our heart is discour-
aged—our faith and desires after holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes ad-
vantage of this state of mind and suggests
that we will not be able to hold out to the end.
A cloud hangs over us which hides for a
time the brightness of our Father's counte-
nance, until we remember there is no help but
in Him.  We go to Him dry and withered
and we plead His promise—"I will be as the
dew unto Israel." We await at His feet until
the dew descends into our souls, and we are re-
freshed, and strengthened and prepared to
face the burden and heat of the day with the
power and freshness of life, and we are led to
see that He has been leading us into closer
communion with Himself by the discipline of
apparent withdrawal—that He may teach us
to lean on nothing but Himself.  We may
have unbroken communion with out Heavenly
Father and may enjoy day by day His sus-
taining presence, still there are seasons of sor-
row and suffering when we yearn for human
sympathy,  when a kind word or deed would
be more than food or medicine, but often it
comes not, and our heart feels crushed until
we think of Him who was divine as well as
human and yet, He yearned for human sym-
pathy while in the flesh, but found it not; al-
though He was ready to sympathize with any
any who suffered.

[Column 2]
	All through the course of His life the shadow
of His cross was upon Him, for He knew all
things from the beginning, what should take
place, and it grew deeper and deeper until He
entered the cloud and on His humanity must
have fallen a mysterious fear, yet He failed not
but steadily set His face to meet it.  Though
He had all power and could have asked and
received "twelve legions of angels," yet, He
must "tread the wine press alone", for His
sorrow was a sealed book to His followers,
"They understood none of these things."
He would sometimes tell them what things
He must suffer and seemed as though He
would fain have brought them into the cloud
with Him—just as we, when some strange
dread hangs over us, we seek to share it
with another, seek how often in vain, we
feel that if we try to express our feelings,
our words are misunderstood, and we cry
out of our sore disappointment, truly,  "the
heart knoweth its own bitterness,"  we are 
ready to faint under the pressure of our own
life, the pain of which none may help us to
bear.
	Let us glance for a few moments at our
Lord's unselfishness and sympathy while
passing about amongst suffering humanity.
The want of devotion in His disciples did
not prevent Him from assisting those who
needed His help.  He healed the sick, cast
out devils, gave sight to the blind, un-
stopped deaf ears, raised the dead, fed the
hungry, and did many works of mercy, yet
He sometimes longed for human sym-
pathy.
	When retiring into the garden of Geth-
semane—whither he went to receive fresh
strength to meet His approaching trial—He
said to His disciples—(those who had hith-
erto shown most devotion to Him) "sit ye
down here while I go and pray yonder." But
when He returned—He had to exclaim in
tones of disappointment—"what, could ye not
watch with me one hour?"
	Again He manifested His sympathy when
betrayed by Judas and arrested by soldiers, He
asks them "whom seek ye?" they answered
Jesus of Nazareth He said unto them, "I have
told you that I am He, if therefore ye seek
me, let these go their way." Though passing
through untold suffering Himself, he did not
wish His disciples to suffer with him, though
in bondage Himself, He would have His
friends enjoy their freedom. Follow Him a
little farther and we see Him in His last
struggle—even in the agonies of death—not
only suffering all that tyrants can heap upon
Him, but even His father withdraws his pres-
ence, yet in the midst of it all He remembers 
His weeping mother, and commits her to
the care of His beloved disciple John.
	And was not His sympathy manifested for
us, when He suffered Himself to be led as a
"lamb to the slaughter" and "poured out His
soul to death"; thereby "bearing our sins and
carrying our sorrows", and which caused His
bleeding heart to send forth an exceeding bit-
ter cry in His last moments when we remem-
ber that "He was wounded for our transgres-
sions and bruised for our iniquities," and that
He bore it all without a murmur, how is it
that we cannot bear our little trials—which
are but a speck compared to His? O how is
it that we cannot bear them patiently, joy-
fully, thankfully?
	But why is it that this subject has forced
itself upon my mind at the present time? It
is because there seems to be such a lack of
sympathy amongst us Latter-day Saints, such
a want of union of heart—of that oneness of
spirit of which Jesus speaks when He says,
"If ye are not one, ye are not mine."  It is
very evident that we must as a people, have
more love, more humility of spirit, more of
that mind which was in Christ Jesus, before

[Column 3]
we can be saved in the Kingdom of God
We are commanded to love the Lord our God
with all our heart, might, mind and strength,
and our neighbor as ourself." St Paul tells us to
see that we love one another with a pure
heart fervently." Thank God there are
many amongst us who are striving to walk in
the footsteps of our Redeemer, and is it not
worth while?  The signs of the times and
the iniquity that abounds proves to us that
the time is getting very short, let us endeav-
or to think less of this earth and more of
that long "hereafter" which lies beyond.
	MARY Y. CORBY.


A BOX ON THE EAR.

	One of Browning's most beautiful and 
pathetic poems commemorates the act of an old
Earl of Arundel, who, having struck his little
child on the head, had the picture of himself
and child painted, the child as he became in
after years, imbecile from the effects of that
blow. It would be well for every parent, and
for those having children on their hands, to
commit these verses to memory; for the injury
dene to children by the quick and careless box
on the ear, that is thought nothing of at the 
time, is something incalculable.


FORGIVENESS. 

	There is no bravery like that involved in
the forgiveness of injuries. The man who for-
gives has two victories—one over himself, one
over the person who has injured him. Men
are not slow to appreciate and applaud virtues
they are not so ready to imitate. They will
understand that the sublimest human act is
that of forgiveness. But to appreciate a
noble act is a great deal easier than to per-
form one precisely like it, just as it is compara-
tively easy to look upon the sublime heights
of a mountain; but it requires a powerful, long
continued effort to reach and stand upon those
heights. The man of meanest capacity makes
himself more than the peer of the man of the
loftiest capacity if he forgives him. He who
revenges an injury makes himself the inferior,
not only of his enemy, but of all others, be-
cause he has stooped to a base act. Revenge
is generally disproportionately severe, even
if a man's judgment is taken as a standard,
and he who practices it has laid up for him-
self a long harvest of regret and remorse,
while the man who forgives is at peace with
himself and all  the world, and has transformed 
his enemy into his friend.


L. May Wheeler whose death has been 
widely published in the newspapers of the
day, departed this life at Orange, Mass. June
24, 1891. Mrs Wheeler had a national
reputation as a newspaper woman, and an
advocate of equal rights. She established
The Woman's News" a bright and interesting
paper, always newsy as its name indicated, in
Indianapolis and afterwards removed it to
Springfield, Ohio, where it is still published
though the name is changed to "Womankind."
She was one time editor of "The Budget," a
political paper in Springfield. She filled the
position of Chicago correspondent for the
Minneapolis Tribune, and the Indianapolis
Sentinel, and at one time edited a woman's
column in the sunday issue of the Sentinel.
Mrs. Wheeler was born at Winehendon Mass.,
Feb. 25, 1845, and was of the old Puritan
stock. We remember with pleasure some
very friendly letters from this talented woman,
but at that time had no idea, she was born so
near our own home.—ED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

AGITATION IS EDUCATIONAL.

	The people of this Territory are likely to be
pretty well posted in the principles of the two
great national political parties, judging from the
agitation kept up during the last few weeks on
Democracy and Republicanism in the various
precincts; the best speakers on both sides have
been proclaiming their views on the platform in
the most interesting manner possible, and eluci-
dating the subjects, pertaining to their respective
parties, explaining all the doubtful points, and
giving every one a proper understanding of the
platform he would subscribe to if he voted on
either side.
	These matters are essential to all concerned in
the welfare of the government and all should be
whether voters or not—and if one comprehends
one party and not the other it is not enough, both
parties and the principles of each should be in-
vestigated, otherwise a man (or woman) voting
would be like the Judge we hear of, who when he
had heard one side of the case, decided it because
he argued, if he should hear the other side he
might get muddled, or change his mind; but as it
was the case was clear. It is to be hoped that each
of the great national party platforms are more
correctly understood, now there has been much
agitation of the subject and the case ought to be
clear, and no muddle over the affair from hearing
both sides. It is high time that the great differ-
ences in this Territory were amicably adjusted
after the concessions that have been made to
comply with the requirements of the special laws
framed for the people, who were driven here by
cruel persecution on account of their religion.
	Here they have subdued the desert land and
made it habitable; and founded a provisional gov-
ernment previous to the organic act creating a
Territory. Here they have lived in peace and
security and afforded safe protection for all who
came, whether Jew or Gentile, or of whatever
faith without excessive taxation; the poor could
obtain homes of their own through industry and
frugality and live comparatively independent,
enjoying the blessings of freedom, but the situa-
tion and conditions attracted those who were
desirous of power and influence caring not how it
was obtained, and they flocked hither and saw the
opportunities open to them for wealth, and took
advantage of the unpopularity of an unpopular
people to oppress them for their own aggrandize-
ment.
	Among those who came were some of the
honorable, upright, high minded men and women,
who had other motives in settling here, and these
have shown themselves to be on the side of
justice and equity; they recognize how the
pioneers who came here labored to make it pos-
sible for a great highway to be opened up over-
land from the Pacific to the Missouri river through
these mountain fastnesses.

[Column 2]

	Now the situation assumes a different aspect to
what it has ever done heretofore. The two great
national, political parties have organized in Utah,
and there is still an element calling itself
"liberal" that is opposed to this condition of
things; and after all the requisitions proposed
have been complied with, this opposing power
still continues its determined resistance to the
very people upon whose rights and privileges
it has been trampling. What magnanimity
of character and of purpose they do display in
this persistency. What an anomaly the name
liberal becomes thus misapplied.
	The people who are looking to the best in-
terests of the country are anxious to see the
official positions filled by honorable men whether
Democrats or Republicans, and not by those who
would wrest all the vested rights from the ma-
jority of the original settlers and pioneers and
tax them to build up such institutions as foster
vice and immorality, and lead away the unwary,
and the young and rising generation from the
paths of rectitude and virtue into the sloughs of
evil and iniquity; as some have boasted would
be their delight. Whatever the result may be of
the coming election we feel sure agitation on
political subjects and conditions must necessarily
be educational, and as God rules still in the earth
all will be well with those who put their trust in
Him, though the powers of darkness combine,
and Satan and his emissaries boast of their
strength and skill; yet the Saints know how easy
the Lord can turn and overturn, when His people
hearken unto Him. When the walls of Jericho
fell, how simple was the means the Lord used to
accomplish his purpose.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	John and Isabella Beecher Hooker cordially
invite their friends to call on them (without
presents) at No. 234 Pearl St., Hartford Conn.,
from 3 to 9 o'clock Wednesday, August 5th,—
the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage—1841—
1891.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow is in the city on a visit
to her children, and will probably remain until
the time for the opening of the Manti Temple,
August 26. Her friends will be likely to see her
by calling at No. 55. N. First East St. inside the
Eagle Gate.
	We received a friendly call on Wednesday the
29th, ult. from Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, President of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake who is spending
a few days with relatives in this City. She is
looking and feeling well for a woman of her years
being considerably over three score and ten.
She stated that probably the next Relief Society
Conference in Sanpete would be held in Mt.
Pleasant.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball, lovingly known
as Aunt Presendia among the Saints, has just re-
turned from the Logan Temple, where she has
been officiating for a few weeks past, with health
and strength quite renewed. Sister Kimball has
been suffering for some months past from a
severe injury caused by a fall, which at her time
of life is not easy to recover from, however she
is now able to go about a little upon crutches,
and even that is better than remaining all the
time in one position. Her many friends will we
are sure be glad to hear that she is able to be up
and about once more, even though she can not as
yet dispense with her crutches.
	President Zina D. H. Young of this City has
returned from her trip to Canada and her address
for the present will be No. 55 N. West Temple
St., Salt Lake City. She has enjoyed her visit
very much and reports favorable conditions for
the people in that country, the women's or-
ganizations prosperous, and the health of the peo-

[Column 2]

ple generally good. Mrs. Young left the City,
May 13, and returned home July 23. She is in
need of rest for a few days, but will then be pre-
pared to visit in the several Stakes of Zion and
attend to the duties of her office and calling as
usual, with the assistance of her Counselors and
aids.
	We publish in this issue of the paper the "Con-
stitution of the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association," By-Laws and Basis of Repre-
sentation, as revised and prepared by the special
Committee, of the Association, and voted upon
article by article, and section by section at the last
annual convention held in Washington D. C., in
February of this year. It is quite necessary that
every county and district W. S. A. should
have these by them, and in fact that every member
of the Association should have a copy. We
have taken great pains to publish these rules and
regulations and all revisions of them that are made
from time to time for the benefit of the women of
this Territory, and also minutes and proceed-
ings of the several Associations, that there may
be a uniformity of methods and action and that
those unacquainted with these matters, may be-
come familiar with what is being done in Utah.
In view of this it seems essential that women
taking part or interested in the advancement and
enfranchisement of women should subscribe for
and read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, also those
engaged in Relief Society work or the childrens'
Primary Associations. The EXPONENT is the
only paper in Utah that keeps posted on these
subjects; and one dollar per year is very little to
pay for so much reliable information on the
various topics that women are discussing at the
present time.
	During the last few weeks a great number of
strangers have visited the City and in strolling
over historic gronnds have called at this office,
and in most instances have seemed specially in-
terested in the past and present of Utah. Some
of them have been people one remembers with
pleasure. Among these we recall F. M. Smith,
and wife of New York, who had called on us at
the office in the summer of 1875, and who re-
membered our conversation on Mormonism and
many of the questions we answered for them at
that time; Prof. Elizabeth J. French, of Phila-
delphia, a briliant lecturer on Temperance etc.
Mrs. W. L. Stanard and Mrs. Annie Mears,
Detroit; Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Montgomery,
Chicago; Mrs. J. M. and Miss Ethelyn Loring,
St. Louis; Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Blanke St. Louis;
besides these of interesting people we must
mention Dr. Geo. H. Roby of Detroit, who came
with a letter of introduction from a friend, and
was accompanied by his daughter, Mrs. L. C.
Waldo, and three children; also Mrs. Rosa Cad-
man Conger, M. D. of Chicago, who is a very
attractive lady, and many others including Mr.
and Mrs. John E. Mc'Elroy, Albany N. Y. who
called when we were absent in Manti, we very
greatly regretted not meeting this gifted and ac-
complished lady, who for some time presided in
the White House at Washington.


LOVE—GOD—NOW.

BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	I have chosen these words for the readers
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not because of any
novelty they suggest to the ordinary reader but to
the sensitive appreciation which woman is ever
capable of exercising they may be made to ap-
pear both interesting and profitable in their im-
port.
	Love is the sweetest word we ever speak. It is
the ground work of all our happiness. It is the
kindling of those emotions which are as infinite
s the soul, and is inherited from the Father of


our spirits as the purest quality of his being. A
virtue transmitted to every child of God's great
family wherever found. Without it, life is but a
dreary waste. Its exercise sanctifies every con-
dition, and makes all things lovely. Its develop-
ment in every human being is found to some ex-
tent, but in woman more supremely so. The
youthful maiden's love, so pure and free, makes
man more manly, subdues his stubborn will, and
makes more holy all his aspirations. It is the
great conqueror of all adversaries; subdues the
passion of hate from whence our evils flow and
brings man in harmony with his God. "God is
Love."
	God is the greatest word in our language. It
implies all that is great as well as good; all that
is lovely or loveable. It represents the highest
degree of excellence conceivable to the human
mind in all the virtues and excellence that has a
lodgement in the soul of man,—the image and
likeness of his Maker.
	His greatness is manifest in all, through all, and
over all. His works are marvelous in the eyes of
man. The first and the last—the end from the
beginning He comprehends. We contemplate
Him as perfection in every attribute of our nature
that is commendable, elevating, or desirable
His power and greatness is without limit to our
understanding; filling immensity with His spirit;
all, for the immortality and eternal life of man
for whom the earth and all its joys were made,
entirely adapted to man's happiness, as it once
was. All that the word "God" implies is far be-
yond our finite comprehension. None need un-
dertake to fathom it.
	Now, is a word that seems more simple, more
easy of comprehension. It relates to the present
of our being—a part, a moment of time, of which
we are creatures. It relates to our existence and
involves the conditions that attend us today—this
very moment, the shortest period of time express-
able—all of time that we can say is ours. Now,
the present is certainty, all else is uncertainty.
To-day we live, to morrow we may die. Now is
the time for all things; the time to love, the time
to do, the time to think, the time to act, the time
which is alloted to all things. It does not admit
of procrastination; it has no substitute in time.
	These three words associated together as at
the head of this article imply the whole duty of
man, his greatest and sweetest duties. Yes!
		Love God Now.
	This love of God, begets love to man, and works
no ill. It fills the soul with peace and good will
to man. It gives to man an approving conscience
one void of offense towards God and man. Love
to God is manifest by keeping His command-
ments,—doing His pleasure. We seek to please
those whom we love. We may more profitably
seek to please Him who is the source of all good
and who will withhold no good thing from those
who love Him. This apparent duty should be
done now. The unborn to-morrow may never
come, it is never our's. The soul that is filled
with love to God has love in his soul for all His
works and words. No harm or ill, by words or
works, to fellow-man, can come from him whose
soul is inspired by the Love of God. Let love
then prevail everywhere; in the family, in all its
relations; in the community, in all its associations
and conditions; in the State with all just de-
mands; and charity, the love of God, become the
key-word that shall admit us to the fulness of that
joy, peace, and happiness, of the divine presence
which results from doing duty now.—Love God
supremely.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.

	"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind."
	This is the first great commandment; and the

[Column 2]

second is like unto it; "Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself."
	On these two commandments hang all the law
and the prophets. (Jesus).
	How few contemplate this momentous subject.
How little we realize the importance of these
sublime and weighty words, or even give them a 
thought throughout the routine of our daily occu-
pations. To our sin-beclouded senses it seems
almost like an improbability.
	Too frequently are they considered to be too
pure and sacred for fallen humanity to observe;
but we must not attribute to the Savior such an
absurd idea—as such an injunction surely would
be if impossible to obey it.
	It certainly would require a large amount of
the Spirit of God to enable poor, weak, selfish
natures to arrive at such a high and holy stand-
ard.
	That Infinite love which inspired the Redeemer
to give His life for the salvation of a fallen world
must also inspire an individual to observe that
 which comes so very much in contact with
worldly, selfish natures. If that love, love thy
neighbor as thyself, was universal throughout the 
length and breadth of the universe what a lovely
and delightful state of existence, how different
from the present cruel, and polluted specimen of
Satan's handicraft. But it pleased the Father of
our spirits, in His Infinite wisdom and providence
to place them in a sphere where sin and darkness
abounds, in order to gain an experience which
could not be obtained in any other way. Thus
the purposes of the Creator are obvious to every
reflective mind; for the experience acquired in
this state of probation is not only essential but
absolutely indispensable for improvement, ad-
vancement and progress under all circumstances
throughout time and the endless ages of eternity.
The apostle said Jesus was perfected through
suffering, if so, if it required suffering and afflic-
tion to perfect so pure a personage as the Savior,
how much more so poor, weak, sin-contaminated
individuals?
	Then let us not complain and repine because of
our trials, though the billows of affliction roll high
and threaten to overwhelm us in its turbulent,
murky flood, but acknowledge the hand of our
Heavenly Father in everything, and under all
circumstances, and He will assuredly overrule our
severest trials for our best good, and they will
prove our greatest blessings, if not in time, they
will in eternity.
	At present as time rolls on oppression and
crime with all their numerous retinue of adherent
evils are marching forward with rapid and gigan-
tic strides throughout the whole habitable globe.
	Instead of love for neighbor every device is
brought into requisition by a great majority of
mankind, to wrest from a fellow-being his all of
this world's goods to replenish one's own coffers.
Even the home sanctuary is not exempt from this
selfish, covetous spirit; such is the sad condition
of the world that love thy neighbor as thyself,
sounds almost like an idle word.
	If there is a citadel on earth where a spark of
that Divine attribute can be found it is in a
mother's heart. A mother's love comes the
nearest to Divinity of anything earthly. It is
that pure, unselfish love that personates the
Deity in His love for the human family. A true
mother will lay down her life for her offspring if
need be.
	All selfish and mercenary feelings are swal-
lowed up in that inherent quality; but alas! how
often ill repaid! Nevertheless, although they
neglect, disobey, abuse and trample that heavenly
boon under their feet, they cannot extinguish that
spark of Divinity, that heavenly germ which
stimulates and nerves a mother through her
various trials and arduous tasks, cares, and
anxiety in her unavoidable and almost endless
routine of perplexing and intricate duties com-

[Column 3]

prised in rearing those priceless treasures,
heaven's choicest blessings to poor fallen human-
ity.
	No, that heavenly link between heaven and
earth will survive the drouth of unrequited love.
It will outlive the shame and unutterable anguish
inflicted by a career of vice and crime. It will
follow its votaries to prison and the scaffold.
	Death that mighty conqueror whose fiat lays
low alike, the monarch and the beggar cannot
conquer that Infinite portion of the Deity, that
pure, unselfish love which every saint of the most
High should aspire to, which alone can enable
them to observe that great commandment, "love
thy neighbor as thyself."
	It is a sacred injunction of vital importance for
it essentially concerns our eternal slavation.
	The Lord of life and glory never issued a man-
date that was not essential.
	Then all ye who have adopted the sacred name
of Saint, beware, lest ye dishonor that exalted
appellation through a spirit of avarice, which is
so prevalent throughout the civilized world. That
detestable spirit of greed for wealth and fame is
the bane of our land, its pernicious effects are
visible on every hand and side. Oppression
sways its scepter over the poor and defenceless
without mercy, or remorse, for the burdens and
miseries it inflicts. The cries of the widow and
orphan fall unheeded on the parsimonious and
greed-polluted souls.
	In their frenzied pursuit for wealth and emolu-
ment they stop not to reflect, neither do they
comprehend that there is a higher power, whose
all seeing eye is taking cognizance of their every
act and the cries of the widow and orphan, ming-
ling with oppressed millions are daily ascending
to the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, who hearkens
even, to the raven's cry, Who ere long will mar-
shal His hosts and avenge the wrongs of the
trodden-down and oppressed with a just and 
mighty retribution.
	Already we behold the dawning of a brighter
day when He whose right it is to rule will bind
the power of the unlawful and covetous despots
and proclaim peace and rest to the oppressed of
every nation.
	Then, when the bright effulgence of that
glorious epoch illuminates the earth will love and
peace abound; then will "love thy neighbor as thy-
self," be universal from sea to sea, and from pole
to pole, and the knowledge of the Lord cover the
earth throughout all its vast domains.
			ELIZA D. GIBBS.


EXECUTIVE SESSION.

MINUTES OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE EXECU-
	TIVE BOARD OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL
	OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.

	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	Present at the meeting, Mrs. May Wright Se-
wall, President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, Cor.
Sec.; Miss Frances Willard, and Mrs. E. S.
Burlingame. Mrs. Burlingame did not vote, as
she came representing informally the President
of the National Free Baptist Woman's Missionary
Society, Mrs. Mary A. Davis.
	In the absence of the Rec. Sec., Mrs. Isabella
Charles Davis, the Cor. Sec. was made Rec. Sec.
of the Conference.	
	The President opened the meeting with a
statement of the reason why the various memori-
als and letters, authorized by the Executive Ses-
sion in Washington had been allowed to wait, it
being thought best that the method of carrying out
the work indicated by the Resolutions passed in
Washington, should be determined by this meet-
ing.
	The Washington Resolutions were then read


[Column 1]
as a whole by the Sec. after which they were
taken up seriatum.
	Resolution 1st.

	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women of the
United States send a memorial to the clergymen of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per
cent of the membership of that denomination has already
by formal ballot expressed a desire that women be ad-
mitted to the General Conference, that the clergy shall, in
accordance with the will of the laity, grant the admission
of women to that body.
	At Miss Willard’s suggestion, it was 
	Resolved:—That the following be sent to the fourteen-
leading Methodist Journals:
	“The National Council of Women, through its
Executive Board, respectfully memorializes the
the Clergy of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
asking that, inasmuch as 62 per cent, of member- 
ship of that denomination has already by formal
ballot expressed a desire that women be admitted
to the General Conference, that the clergy shall,
in accordance with the will of the laity, grant the
admission of women to that body." 
	Resolution 2nd.
	Resolved:— That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee.
	The Cor. Sec. was elected to send a copy of
this Resolution to Dr. Warren F. Randolph,
Newport, R. I., Sec. of the International Sunday
School Lesson Committee, requesting him to lay
it before the next Triennial Meeting of the In-
ternational Sunday School Workers of the United
States and Canada also to Dr. John H. Vincent,
Buffalo, N. Y.; also to H. Clay Trumbull,
Editor of the Sunday School Times, Philadelphia.
	Resolution 3rd.
	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on all committees appointed in the
various churches, for the revision of the creeds.
	The Cor. Sec. was directed to send Resolu-
tion 3 to the official address of the Secretary of
eacn denomination which has appointed, or shall
before 1895, appoint a Committee on Revision of
the Creed.
	It being known to the Conference, that, at the
very time of the meeting, the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church was convened in
Detroit for this purpose, the following telegram
was sent:
	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	To the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church Convened in Detroit, Michigan, (There is
no record of this telegram in the public proceed-
ings of the Assembly, but it was given to the As-
sociated Press and aroused some comment fn the
papers.)
Gentlemen:—
	Presbyterian women having as yet had no voice
in the revision of the creed, we respectfully ask
that, in its ratification, they be now invited to
participate.
	By Order of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Pres., MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Cor. Sec., RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	It was mentioned to the Secretary that both the
Reformed and United Presbyterians are moving
toward a revision of their creeds. 
	Resolution 4th.
	Resolved;—That the National Council of Women urge up
on the National Reform Divorce League,the eminent fitness
and consequent obligation of placing women on its Board.
	After some discussion, it was decided, to ap-
point the following committe to appear before
the National Reform Divorce League, to present
Resolution 4 to that body and sustain it by argu-
ment.

[Column 2]
	Resolution 5th.
	Resolved.—That the National Council of Women shall
present to the proper authorities a formal request that in
all departments of its service the Government shall pay its
employees equal wages for equal work, and that both in
engaging and promoting its employees, it shall consider
efficiency and not sex, and thus set a standard for the
country.
	A Committee was appointed to carry out Reso-
lution 5 by securing the presentation to Congress
of a Bill containing such a provision, and to work
for its passage every Congress until such a Bill
shall become law.

	The Sec. was instructed to make it plain to
each member of thfs Committee that, whatever
memorial it may issue to the Government author-
ties, such document must first be submitted for
the signatures of the General Officers of the
Council.
	Resolution 6th.
	Resolved;—That inasmuch as the Columbian Exposition
of 1893 will afford an exceptional opportunity for the con-
vening the representatives of all countries, the officers of
the National Council shall invite the officers of
the International Council of Women, Millicent Gran
Fawcett, President, to hold its first meeting in Chicago in
the summer of 1893
	In connection with Resolution 6, the following
formal resolution was passed by  the Confer-
ence:—
	Resolved;—That in the meetings of 1893, the National
Council, in inviting the International Council of Women to
assemble in Chicago, will assume the entertainment of all
accerdited foreign delegates to the International Council of
Women; Therefore, so far as it affects the women of this
country, only members of National Associations that have
already entered the National Council can be accredited as
delegates to that meeting.
	Resolution 7th.
	Resolved;—That the general officers shall appoint a
committee whose duty It shall be to report within a year
suggestions for a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good taste.
	In order to see that action be taken on Reso-
lution 7, a committee was appointed to prepare
a Symposium on Dress to be published under the
auspices of the National Council of Women, in
one of the popular magazines during the coming
year;
	And it shall be the further duty of this Com-
mittee to report to the May 1892 Conference, of
the Executive Board of the Council, its idea of an
every businese dress for women, accompanied, if
possible by a model of the same.

	The Cor. Sec. was directed to correspond with
Marion Harland as to the cost of the block of
stone or marble to be placed by  the National
Council in the monument to be erected over the
grave of Mary, the mother of Washington. She
was further authorized in the name of the Coun-
cil to collect money for the same. 
	The following contributions were at once
pledged: Miss Willard, $5.00; Mrs. Burlingame,
$5.00; Mrs. Sewall, $10.00; Mrs. Avery, $10.00.
	A letter was read from the Young Woman’s
Christian Association declining to join he Coun-
cil. A letter was also read from the Officers of
the National Chautauqua at Washington, D. C.,
asking whether the Council would be represented
at their coming meeting.
	The Sec. was instructed to secure, if possible,
a presentation at the meeting, of the work con-
nected with the Council.
	The Sec. was also instructed to correspond
with Mrs, Jennings as to the cost of a tent ot of a
permanent signboard bearing the name of the
Council, to be placed on its lot at Glen Echo.
	The President was authorized to form a com-

[Column 3]
mittee to collect funds for a Woman’s Temple to
be erected at Glen Echo, and to report at next
year’s meeting.
	The following Resolution was passed:
	Resolved;—That at the National Council in 1895 every
State Council may send two fraternal delegates. In States
where no State Council exists, City Councils may each
send one fraternal delegate. No fratemal delegates shall
be received at the National Council from states or cities in
which no Councils have been arganized.
	Resolved;—That a letter be sent out by the officers of
this Council encouraging the formation of City Councils
	A letter was read from the School of Industrial
Art asking how it could secure admittance to the
Council.
	The Sec. was directed to state in reply, that no
ocal associations can enter the Council, and to 
suggest the formation of a National Federation,
of such schools.
	After a long discussion of the proposed motto
of the National Council, the selection of which
was left with the retiring Board of Officers (two
of them being present in person and a third by
representation, and the opinion of the other two
being known.)
	“LIGHT, MORE LIGHT’’
was determined upon. The selection of a design
was left to Mrs. Avery. (Mrs. Avery and Mrs.
Sewall, though in favor of this motto at the time,
were not satisfied entirely because the vote was 
not unanimous, and resolved to hold further con-
sultation on this subject with the retired Board of
Officers.)
	The Cor. Sec. was authorized to proceed with
the publication of the "Transactions of the
National Council of Women."
 	It was resolved that the President of each As- 
sociation which had entered the Council should 
have sent her for distribution fifty copies of the
Council Number of the Business Woman's
Journal, and fifty more should she so request. 
	The meeting then adjourned having lasted from
10 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. with an hour and a half re-
cess for luncheon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

	CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Cassia Stake con-
vened in Conference at Elba, June the 19th,
1891.
	There were present a full attendance of the
Stake officers, representatives from all the
wards except one. Stake President H. D.
Haight, first Counselor and leading
brethren; also a large congregation.
	Minutes of two preceding conferences were
read; also statistical and financial reports
showing good work.
	Remarks from Prest. Louisa Haight were
followed by favorable verbal reports from the
various wards, showing how the majority of
the members endeavored against many disad-
vantages to keep up the spirit of their
duties.
	Counselors E. Tuttle and Ann Wilson each
addressed the conference in a forcible and in-
structive manner.
	During the afternoon session, Prest. H. D.
Haight and Counselor Moroni Pickett spoke
at some length upon the sisters duties and
wherein the brethren could and should render
them assistance in their labors.
	Remarks also by Sisters Priscilla Worthing-
ton and Louisa Read touching upon
the elevation of the young; dealing with traits
of character, self-education and other top-
ics.
	Prest. L. Haight extended to the brethren
a standing invitation to attend the conferences
of the Sisters.


General and Stake authorities were sus-
tained by the conference.
	The Elba choir rendered sweet music; every
one seemed blessed with a righteous and
friendly spirit.
	Conference adjourned to meet at Oakley in
three months.
		LOUISA READ, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. S. L. CO.

	Minutes of the regular meeting of the Salt
Lake Co., W. S. A. held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms July 21st, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Prayer by the
Chaplain.
	The Secretary not being present at the open-
ing of the meeting, Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read
an Essay on Democracy, after which the Sec-
retary having arrived, the minutes of last
meeting were read and adopted. Pres.
Howard announced that the Suffrage Song
Book could be obtained at the EXPONENT
Office, at 10 cts. each, and hoped that all would
provide themselves with one.
	Pres. Territorial W. S. A. Sarah M. Kimball
addressed the meeting, defining the difference
between Democracy and Republicanism:
thought we should not mix religion with poli-
tics, but always acknowledge God. We should
seek to intorm ourselves upon the political
questions of the day and assist others to do so,
that when we do have the franchise again we
may be prepared to exercise it intelligently.
	Said there had been a fear expressed that
through our differences of opinions in politics,
there might be a division among us as a
people, did not think that we should discuss
those subjects in an ungenerous spirit, but
seek to properly understand the different
methods of government.
	M. Isabella Horne, said she did not like
strife in politics, and if women were in danger
of being corrupted by politics, it was time
politics were purified, and that she fully be-
lieved that we should again have the franchise.
	Emily S. Richards was sorry to have missed
hearing Mrs. Mc'Farlane's speech, believed in
Democratic principles of government; our
children should be educated in politics, and we
should be educated ourselves in order to
properly educate them.
	Pres. Howard, suggested a second reading of
Mrs. Mc'Farlane's Essay, as some of the ladies
had come in late and had not heard it, which 
was done.
	Mary A. B. Freeze said that she had enjoyed
the meeting more than she would have done a
dozen concerts, thought that we should discuss
these questions with the kindest of feelings.
	Dr. E. S. Barney made a stirring speech.
The Secretary apologized for being late, and
gave some of her ideas about the subject under
discussion.
	Mary A. B. Freeze and Margaret A. Caine
were appointed to write articles, one on Re-
publicanism, and the other on Democracy,
Elizabeth Price to write on the Tariff, for the
next meeting, the meeting was then adjourned
until the third Tuesday in August, same time
and place.
			CAROLINE C. R. WELLS, Sec.


[Column 1]

THE WHITE CROSS MOVEMENT IN
EDUCATION.

FROM ADDRESS OF FRANCES E. WILLARD BE-
FORE THE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.

	"The White Cross!" Never was name
more fortunate or purpose loftier than
that indicated by this new combination of
letters, happily grown already familiar to our

[Column 2]

ears. The poetry of religion and the insignia
of a chivalric age here veil a meaning some-
times too rudely told. Although but seven
years have passed since the White-Cross
movement became "A spell to conjure by" in
England, it has spread to Australia, India,
and America, finding everywhere a kind re-
ception, when its plans are understood. Sa-
cred and beautiful is the mission of the White
Cross. The fulness of time has come, the
world is ready for it, and the twentieth cene
tury shall lift it to the sky, the cross of Him
we love—no longer red with tinge of war and
carnage, but white with promise of manhood
that bears forever in its breast the lily of a
spotless life, while as of old its gleaming le-
gend still shall be: "By this sign we con-
quer."
	The work was introduced into this country
by Rev. B. F. Da Costa, rector of the church
of St. John the Evangelist, New York City
and has been adopted as part of its organic
plans by the Church of England and the
Episcopalian Church in America. It con-
templates a distinct effort to educate toward
personal purity every boy or youth in Chris-
tendom.
	This is the White Cross pladge:
	I promise by the help of God—
	First: To treat all women with respect,
and endeavor to protect them from wrong
and degradation.
	Second: To endeavor to put down all inde-
cent language and coarse jests.
	Third: To maintain the law of purity as
equally binding upon men and women.
	Fourth: To endeavor to spread these prin-
ciples among my companions, and try to help
my younger brothers.
	Fifth: To use all possibls means to fulfill
the command, "Keep thyself pure."
	The principle on which this movement rests
is that to be forewarned is the only way to be
forearmed; that virtue based upon knowledge
is safer than innocence based upon ignorance;
and the recital of the creative mysteries from a
mother's or a teacher's lips imparts to the
child's mind such a solemnity and sacredness
as cannot be otherwise obtained. The girl,
and even more especially the boy, who feels a
confidential freedom in bringing to the
home sanctuary the mysterious questions,
sure to be asked and answered somewhere,
will be likely to maintain purity of word and
deed even amid youth's manifold temptations.
Happy the child whose mother has his entire
confidence all his life long. I have been told
by many a fortunate mother that her son
indignantly repelled the degradation of the
common school boy talk upon subjects he had
learned to regard as sacred, by reason of con-
fidences exchanged between himself and her
who bore him.
	The first White Cross pledge ever offered
was sent by me to a bright young fellow of
sixteen, an athlete on the college campus of
our university at Evanston, and a
chief student in the classics. When his
mother handed him the pledge on my behalf
he read it carefully and said: "Well, that's
what I call hard sense. This town is Evans-
ton, and we Methodists like to call it Heavens-
ton, but I doubt if there is a boy here, eight
years old, who hasn't plenty of weeds sown
in his heart. I'm glad the white-ribbon wo-
men propose to plant some lilies there." I
was helped by those frank words. I under-
stood the situation better and believed more
in the work.
	A young minister wrote a prize essay for
the work on the White Cross. He said that
until ten years of age he never went from the
home where he was most carefully nursed by
his widowed mother. On the first day in
public school he heard such language at re-
cess as outraged his sense of purity, and rush-

[Column 3]

ing home he poured out his heart to the dear
mother whose name stood first on his
calendar of saints. But to his astonishment
she turned away from him with indignation
saying: "Charley, never come to me again
repeating what the boys have said, for I won't
hear it." As she thus spoke it seemed to him
that the hand he trusted most was roughly
snatched from the helm of his life barque,
and he thrust out to sea without a guide, nor
did he regain the port of purity until after a
storm of sin that lasted many years. In happy
contrast to this experience is that of many a
white-ribbon mother who has said to me: "My
boy often comes home from school saying,
'Mother they tried to make me laugh at some
of their vulgar words. but I wouldn't listen to
them after the way you and I have talked;
for the mother's gentle lips had keyed the
boy's thought of things forever sacred, to the
heights of holiness. But here comes in the
motto, Noblesse oblige. For all mothers are
not what we could wish. The average teacher
is greatly superior in character and culture
to the average parents whose children are
placed under her care. She knows far better
what to say and how to say it. Every
school-house has three classes of children—
those from homes celestial, terrestrial, and
diabolical. It is so much easier to sink than
climb that, in seeking an equilibrium, the
lowest minds spread their contagion widest;
and the tendency is to keep time at the
slowest step in the last battalion of the
"little soldiers newly mustered in to this
army of temptation and of sin."
		[To be continued.]


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	The teachers and a few of the members of
the Relief Society of Union Ward met on the
12th of June at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Lucy A. Brady by way of a surprise to
our aged and much beloved President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Richards, on the anniversary of her
82nd birthday. The time was most pleasantly
spent in social conversation, songs with organ
accompaniment and recitations. She received
a very nice present from her sisters with bless-
ings and good wishes.
	And, though feeble in body, her desires are
to see the work of the Lord triumph. All
partook of a bounteous supper which had been
prepared by the ladies of the Association, and
in the twilight of the evening all bade her an
affectionate adieu, realizing it is good to bless
and to be blessed.
	Sister Richards has been associated with the
Church from the days of Nauvoo; her house
always being open to the brethren and Saints her
hospitality is well known; she is one of those
loveable persons, whom to know her longest, is
to love her best.
			M. A. SMART, Sec.


SELF-SACRIFICE.

	It is useless to talk of sacrificing self to
others unless there is something in self that
others need. It is the full and rich life, not
the poor and empty one, that can fill and
enrich others. True benevolence, then, must
obtain that which would give. To acquire
honorable money or leisure or power, to
cultivate health and, to gain wisdom and
knowledge, to develop interest in human
affairs, to cherish just principles and generous
impulses—these things are essential if we
would pour out blessings and benefits upon
our fellow-men, while at the same time they
ennoble and gladden our lives. We are all
influencing others in the direction in which
we ourselves are tending.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE.

	The young women of of Woodhaven, N. Y.
have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation
Association." They aver that they have been
neglected by the young men, and now propose
to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young
men met and organized an "Old Bachelors'
Sympathetic and Consolation Society." Pre-
amble and resolutions were adopted as fol-
lows:
	WHEREAS. It having become known
that the young women of this city have orga-
nized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association"
setting up as a primary cause "the inattention
of the young men," and announcing their de-
termination to exclude from their society the
male offenders, and fearing that if such plan
were carried into effect it might cause too
great a devotion to the historic black cat and
strong tea; therefore
	Resolved, That we, as representative young
men of the community, deploring their hasty
action in assigning themselves so prematurely
to old maidenhood, earnestly request them to
reconsider their action. At the same time we
extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently
promise to atone for past neglect.
	Resolved, That we appoint a committee to
attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids'
Consolation Association," and do all in their
power to effect a consolidation of the two socie-
ties under the title of the "Mutual Consolation
Association."
	After singing the hymn "Come ye Disconso-
late," the meeting adjourned, subject to the
call of the chair.—Ex.


[Column 1]
	MISCELLANEOUS.

	The strength of a nation, especially of a re-
publican nation, is in the intelligent and well-
ordered homes of the people.—Sigourney. 

	God takes men’s hearty desires and will, in-
stead of the deed, where they have not power
to fulfill it, but He never took the bare deed
instead of the will—Baxter.

	It would be an unspeakable advantage, both
to the public and private, if men would con-
sider that great truth, that no man is wise or
safe but he that is honest.—Sir. W. Raleigh.

	Too much idleness, I have observed, fills up
a man’s time much more completely, and
leaves him less his own master, than any sort
of employment whatsoever.—Burke.

	Of all injustice that is the greatest which
goes under the name of law, and of all sorts
of tyranny the forcing of the jetter of the law,
against the equity is the most insupportable.—
Sir. R. L'Estrange.

	If you make yourself up in a bundle of
falsities, you will only attract other such
bundles. If you are true to yourself, you will
attract other true people and things. “True”
means, “express yourself,” it does not mean
“disguise yourself,” nor “suppress yourself.”
If you think a fashion is vulgar, let nothing
induce you to follow it; if you think a costume
suitable, let nothing induce you to abandon
it. Being true in dress is one way of con-
tributing to freedom of the human race.
	With all the pomp and glitter of royalty,
the marriage of Franziska Josepha Louise
Augusta Marie Christina Helena, better
known as the Princess Louise of Schleswig-
Holstein, and Prince Albert Joseph Alex
ander von Anhalt was solemnized at Wind-
sor, England, Monday, July 6. The bride
is a younger daughter of Prince Christian
of Shleswig Holstein, and the Princess Hele-
na, of England, daughter of Queen Vic-
toria. She is 19 years of age and, contrary

[Column 2]
to the general rule of royalty, is decidedly
good looking. The groom is the third son of
the Duke of Anhalt-Dessau. He is 27 years
of age, and is a lieutenant in the First Prus-
sian Dragoon Guards, a regiment of which
Queen Victoria is the honorary Colonel. The
betrothal took place in December last, with,
the usual ceremonies prescribed by the Ger-
man Imperial Court. By the Queen’s express
desire the wedding took place in the private
royal chapel of St. George, which is located
within the royal grounds, a short distance
from the castle.
	The Phrenological Journal for July has
something to say of Prof. Briggs and the
church controversy, and says it clearly and
well, giving a portrait of the reverend critic.
A remarkable Irishmen and public character
was Mr. Kavanagh, who is described, and how
he made his way in the world, despite the fact
he had neither hands nor feet. The character
of Hayden, the great musician, is well limned,
and Dr. Reynolds relates certain interesting
incidents of animal intelligence. In the de-
partment of Practical Phrenology the reader
will be much entertained. It contains a strik-
ing and profusely illustrated article on the
study of character by photographs, and the
first prize essay on the “Utility of Phrenol-
ogy.” “A Pink of Perfection” hits off a cer-
tain type of childhood capitally, and “Wrong
Side Out” is a good illustration of motherly
tact. “Refined Physical Culture” takes up
the subject of exercise on a line that has
novelty, and “Grape Juice” will probably open
the eyes of some of the temperance people.
In his second article on “Systematic Moral
Culture,” the editor opens a new field, and
shows the fallacy of expecting moral stability
without a definite training of the moral
faculties. Many other titles in this number
(631) are deserving mention. Price only 15
cents, or $1.50 a year. It is offered “on trial”
six monthe from this number, the first of the
92d volume, for 50 cents. Send on this,
amount and try it. Address Fowler & Wells
Co., publishers, 777 Broadway, New York.


OBITUARY

	Departed this life April 17th, 1889, at Orderville, of 
dropsy Mary Blackburn the wife of Thomas Blackburn;
and daughter of William and Elizabeth Wallace: she was
born in Holbach, Lincolnshire, England, March 15, 1821;
was married to Thomas Blackburn Nov. 12, 1847. She 
emigrated to Australia in 1851; was baptized with her hus-
band Dec. 10, 1855, at Makeland in Hunter river by A.
P. Dowdle, and emigrated to Utah by way of San Francis-
co in 1868; moved to Long Valley 1871. She was aged 
70 years, 1 month and 3 days, and was the mother of four
children, of which three died in their youth. She leaves a
husband, one son, and three grandchildren to mourn her
loss. She was a dutiful wife, a loving mother, and an
affectionate grandmother, and a good and faithful Latter-
day Saint. She was a member of the Relief Society and al-
ways a friend to the poor.

	MEMORIAL AND RESOLUTIONS.

	Memorial of respect to the family of Mary Blackburn.
	WHEREAS, Our beloved Sister has been called away 
by the hand of death, and therfore be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Relief So-
ciety do deeply deplore the loss of an earnest worker
and a true friend, and that we tender to the bereaved 
husband and son, our heartfelt sympathy, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of his
Holy Spirit rest upon them in their hour of bitter
trial.
	HANNAH HOYT,
	SUSAN HEATON,
	AMELIA CARROLL,
	SARAH ROBERTSON,
	Committee,

	We miss our Sister sadly,
	And those orphan children dear


Miss grandma's admonitions,
And her kind and loving care;
But she's resting from her labors,
Where no pain to her can come;
And we bow to Father's wishes,
And say His will be done.
	CLARISSA WILHELM, Sec.


Woman's Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.

	A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of 
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon 
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
	Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room  9, Tremont
	Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 123 E FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions 
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

