VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1891.	NO. 9 10


CONTENTS.
	A Man's Advice About Woman Suffrage—D.
P. Felt. In Rural England. The Ballot as a
Measure of Reform—Etta L. Gilchrist, M. D. 
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A., Reports—Cassia
—Uintah. Utah Co. W. S. A.—W. White, Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Fear Not For Zion. Editorial
Notes. A New Story Book. Press Women in
Boston. Woman's Press Club Organized. Ex-
tracts From President Woodruff's Sermon at
Logan.
	POETRY:—Autumn—Lue. Victory in Obscurity
—Ruby Lamont. The Spirit of Right and Wrong
—Zina E. Crocheron. Two Faces—Lula.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				AUTUMN. 

	Charming, golden days of Autumn,  
		In thy paradise we roam,
	Revel in the sweet profusion, 
		Of thy gifts around us thrown, 
	All thy voices cheer and echo,
		Thro' the realm of mind and soul,
	Raising aspirations ever,
		Upward toward the wished-for goal.
	One by one we twine together, 
		Leaves like golden coins dropped down,
	Fadeless leaves from Queen of summer,
		With poetic beauty crown’d.
	Thanks that 'mid life's trial and bustle,
		We may gather some few flowers, 
	That may aid to charm and soothe us, 
		In our daily trial hours. 
	Raise our thoughts to fadeless blossoms,
		In immortal gardens fair, 
	Far above earth-toil and striving,
		And its sound of ceaseless care.
										LUE.
Atchison Kan.


FOR THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		VICTORY IN OBSCURITY.

		    BY RUBY LAMONT.

Thou sayest, sweet woman that not for thee
	Are those strains of music, glad and grand,
That but for the victor, the brave, the free,
	The hero who dies for his bleeding land,
The proud or the lovely, the young or gay,
Breathe the waking strains that o’er joy bear sway.

Thou say’st, whilst thine eye with a tear is blurred,
	That thy life is too narrow and dull to sing,
That thy rising soul as a pinioned bird,
	Is beating a clipped and troubled wing;
And thou pleadest the beautiful song to cease
A strain that can only undo thy peace.

Oh, what is thy life I would question thee?
	A thing so dull and so useless and vain
That even an angel’s soft melody,
	Would sadden thy soul as an autumn rain?
Thy lips would quiver; thy breast would heave
And o’er blighted fancies thine heart would grieve?

And who is the victor and who the brave 
	And whose is the life that is grand and true?
For whom should the banner of glory wave
	And whose is the crown from an angel's view?
Oh, deep is the ocean and wide the span
And we judge not aright of our fellow man! 

Sad mother the angels are writing a song
	Of a beautiful life that is grand and sweet,


Whose silent waters shall flow ere long,
	In tranquil joy to the Savior's feet;
It will tell of a cross that was meekly borne
Through faith and love to the gates of morn.

So the angel's song will be never sad,
	And thy spirit will vault to a height unknown,
Thou wilt wonder to hear it so strong and glad,
	And thine heart shall no more be depressed and lone;
For the song that the angel will sing, somg day,
Shall be of a life that was fair as May. 

It will tell in a clear, triumphant strain,
	Of self forgotten, of holy love,
Of vigils lone by the couch of pain,
	Of a constant faith in the Hand above;
Of a lovely crown for a noble strife,
As a bright reward for a faithful life!
	*Suggested by Mrs. Hemans' "Triumphant Music."


[Column 1]

﻿A MAN'S ADVICE ABOUT WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.

	I have frequently had occasion to give vent
to my opinion in regard to woman suffrage in
a short but no-wise complete manner, hence
have had my ideas so contorted as to entirely
destroy my actual position as an earnest advo-
cate of your cause in public life. Now on the
contrary, you have my hearty support, but I
think you, or many of your prominent advo-
cates, take a wrong shoot and instead of lay-
ing a foundation for your noble cause, you
branch out in leaves or small branches as it
were, and if your ideas, which are naturally
sanguine or over enthusiastic, fall down you
always find some horrid man to witness your
fail, and he will invariably laugh at your pre-
sumption on so weak a foundation, to aspire
to do something with nothing, pardon my
candor, this is what always drives my suffrage
friends from me disgruntled, without giving
me the opportunity to fully define my position,
but in my opinion such is the condition today
and will so remain unless you change your
tactics, and build a foundation that will re-
quire at least two generations to erect a struct-
ure on that will stand the storms of ridicule
that today beat against your frail house, and
invariably causes either depression or the en-
tire crush of the structure.
	We are told in our earliest histories that
man was made first, and that woman was so
dependent on him, that even the first woman
had to secure a start from man, and that after-
wards she was placed in subjection to him,
but this I doubt. I think it only originated
from man's superior strength and never was a
divine wish or expectation—was only a mun-
dane retrogression that must first be checked
before woman can attain her God-given posi-
tion on strict equality with her liege lord,
man.
	It has been the prevailing idea with mankind
from as far back as history goes, that the son
and heir are the acme of perfection. How did
our Roman mother feel if her child happened
to be a girl? the poor chld was neglected, her
physical development was neglected, her edu-
cation was of decidedly second consideration
to the son already born, or the one to come.
Even before hand,	*	*	preparations were
made for the full development of the physical
and mental tenure of Rome's future army.
This was right as far as it went, but compare
the two children of those days? The boy was
carefully taken, given a rigid and severe course

[Column 2]

in its physical development and a thorough
training in war tactics, while the girl was
turned over heartlessly to a nurse and more or
less neglected all through life except when fill-
ing the office of motherhoods.
	Tracing the history of mankind down to the
present, can any one tell me whether it is
much better today? I've heard many mothers
say even in this age "Oh if I can give my boy
an education, my girl will marry some one
who will get the bread in the house and if I
teach her to bake bread and do plain sewing
these are all the requirements of a girl."
While my boy must have a good education
and make his way in the world. Of course
this, like as in the days of our Roman mothers
is all right as far as it goes, but why should
we neglect our girls? are they not future
mothers? and should they not be as intelligent
as the fathers? Most decidedly yes, and more
so say I; who, I will ask, are the persons to
whom we first appeal for our food? who is the
first one to hear our plaintive cry when we are
sick? who is the one to whom we first look for
sympathy in our infantile troubles? who is the
one who first leads our baby footsteps to the
altar of prayer and teaches us what to say?
when our struggling mind bursts into a desire
to know where God is, what the moon is and
the stars, and a hundred other childish ques-
tions, to whom do we go? As time rolls on
and we find an intelligent adviser into whose
willing ear are all our questions and confi-
dences poured, even to the time of choosing
our life mate? I'll answer all these questions
by the words Our Mothers. Will any one
dare to say, I am wrong, I think not. Hence
for a mother to fill these important functions
she must not have her education neglected,
she must either be qualified or qualify herself
to make a mother in every sense of the word;
a mother who knows how to take care of her
God-given charge from the moment of its con-
ception until she lays down her body with a
large concourse of intelligent children as
mourners; a mother who when she taught her
child to pray that she adopted the very best
language, that when sickness comes on she will
know better than all the quack neighbors that
drop in with their harrowing tales of their ex-
perience; a mother must know how to answer
the infantile questions that are asked by all
intelligent children or if unable to know how
to answer in such, a way as to retain the con-
fidence of the child in other words know the
child; as the child grows up she must be the
one who lays the foundation for a solid char-
acter, must prepare him for scholastic and
academic life. Her education, if confined to
baking bread or sewing on a button only,
would, when her bright little child asks "how
are stoves made necessitate reference to other
persons for information, it will be so with all
other questions asked and ere long your child
will appeal to you no more for information, he
will go away from home and the chances for
defective or immoral teachings are more prone
to be met with in promiscuous associations
than home, to say nothing of the desolation
created by the child or growing youth or
maiden who is turned over to an unfeeling
world, whose teachings are fraught with any
but maternal or trustworthy instincts. What
is home without that comfort giving essential
confidence. Its loss can invariably be traced
to that one defect in our girl's education.
	To raise up that standard of equality you


must fight a custom that has for its parents
the bigotry of man’s superior strength, you
must show by your excellence in what you
are best qualified, which I will not attempt
to particularize. It will take a generation
perhaps to prove that you are the best teacher
for the school it may take generations to show
that you are the best qualified for type
writing.
	It will certainly take a long time for you
o show by hard training and steady perse-
verance that you have your points even in the
arts and sciences that will enable you to stand
in the van with any. To do this turn your
attention to the education of your girls.
	Have as much pride in seeing them get their
diplomas as you have for your boys, drive
those notions of confining the girls education
to just what is required the day they start to
learn remember the future day when they
will have daughters of their own—you know
progression is nature and if you have these
aims, theirs will be in a more advanced degree
and ere long the sun of your dreams will have
arisen and your great granddaughters will be
standing shoulder to shoulder with the men of
the age, for the same labor receiving the same
or better pay, they will be exercising their
benign and refining influence on all the pro-
gressive ideas and customs of the age. So
educate your daughters in various channels of
public life that if it does not qualify them it
will their daughters, impress on their minds
the finer instincts and aims of woman’s rights
do not try to teach them that they should be
burly policemen or sit on a jury, that in-
cludes men with the fair prospects of remain-
ing together days perhaps. Do not say it is
your right to sit on the Judge’s bench and
listen to all phases of immoral life. Let their
aspirations be of a higher nature, all these are
revolting to a young lady and will drive her
from you instead of making a convert. First
educate her in all the branches of life, the
common school, politics, religion and if pos-
sible science, art and music. Then let her
highest aim be her true position as a mother—
let none be secondary to this, then your suff-
rage ideas when confined to woman’s physical
ability, then her mental if trained right will
assume its true level as water does and ere long
a race of beings will people this earth that
will be bound to recognize woman in her true
position to man, he being utterly unable to
dispense with woman in all phases of his life.
*     *     *     *    Woman in her position
to man is so decidedly essential that were it
possible to people the earth without her, that
man would soon die off from sheer misery and
loneliness therefore for any one to say they are
not his equal in everything but strength is
preposterous, and the inference is only the re-
sult of custom from man’s, earliest history.
This custom is what you must change and to
do this will require ages, you must strike at 
the root of future generations. Educate your
daughters to this ultimatum.
							D. P. FELT.
	Provo, Oct 28th, 1891.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

IV
	After the conversation between Sir Edward
and Dr. Bland, Miss Conway's mind was more at
ease, she felt that the responsibility must here-
after rest with the father, yet no understanding
had taken place between her cousin and her-
self, and she wondered whether her cousin had
replied to the letter from Mr. Walton, and felt
reluctant about making any inquiry or calling
the matter in question.
	A few days passed, and Sir Edward im-
proved rapidly, he was more cheerful and
talkative, though he never in any way referred

[Column 2]

to young Walton or the letter. Finally he
announced positively his intention of going
abroad soon, and requested the young
ladies to prepare their wardrobes, so as
to be ready on short notice. The Dr. had
given his permission, in fact had stated to Sir
Edward that it was the best thing for his
health and spirits. Sir Edward sent off to
London for his solicitor, so that all arrange-
ments might be made without his having to
leave temporarily the house, and the lawyer
was not long in answering the summons, for
knowing of the recent illness of his Lordship,
he naturally enough imagined that his affairs
should be looked into while there was oppor-
tunity.
	Mr. Burke (the family solicitor) knew more
of Sir Edward's family than even Dr. Bland,
and the three men were closeted together on
several occasions, which caused some anxiety
on the part of the household, especially the
young ladies. The upper servants gossiped
considerably over the matter, and the house-
keeper who assumed a great deal of import-
ance, having been left so much in charge pre-
vious to Miss Conway's coming, repeated to that
young woman some of the servants’ gossip, one
day when she was particularly loquacious, and
although the young lady did not think the
information altogether reliable, considering the
source, and feeling sure it had been obtained
by eaves-dropping, yet she felt there might be
a spice of truth in it and therefore listened a
few minutes to the housekeeper's version. Mrs.
Hess in her most gracious manner said "The
master would na go up to London to see after
his own business for fear Lady Anna might
get to see that young feller that came prowl-
ing around while he was away before—he's
after na good, I can tell ye Miss Conway
doubtless he's na better'n his father were, and
he stole Sir Edward's sweetheart away, and all
the time ptetendin to be his best friend. Rich
folk are na better'n poor ones, and not as 'onest
sometimes, do'ye know Miss Conway that
lawyer from London is makin a new will out,
and the old'un is burnt, and the master's afraid
he'll die in foreign parts and he wants things
settled so's if Lady Anna marries that feller
he'll not get his money not a shillin."
	Miss Conway thinking Mrs. Hess had gone
quite far enough into the secrets of the family
coolly replied, "I cannot listen to gossip like
this, excuse me, my uncle will be wanting me.',
The housekeeper was quite offended and
muttered to herself, "gentle folks are all alike
never want their affairs talked over, may be
she thinks we don't know how poor she was
when her uncle took her in, and now she don't
even want to be spoken to by a decent body
like me, that's been in this house ten years an'
more," and off she went to her own room to
regale herself with tea and something stronger
that she "al'ays kept by her in case o'sick-
ness."
	Miss Conway could not help thinking over
what the old lady had said notwithstanding
her distaste for 'servants gossip," and she felt
rather uneasy lest her cousin should be de-
frauded of her rights, still she placed great
coufidence in Dr. Bland's judgment and felt he
would be interested in having all legal mat-
ters disposed wisely.
	The same evening after this harangue of the
housekeeper's, a most unexpected occurrence,
transpired, that gave Miss Conway's sensibil-
ities another shock. The day was a very cold
one and the wind whistled and moaned ground
the old buildings, and swayed and bent the
great bare elms in the yard, as though in
agony and gloomy forebodings settled down
upon the mind of the Baronet's niece, she
seemed to dread something she knew not what:
she tried to throw off the feeling, took up a
book to read, unfortunately the book contained
only old legends that impressed her more

[Column 3]

gloomily she laid it down, stirred the fire in
the grate, the very air seemed oppressive, she
looked at her cousin, who sat silently musing,
it was growing dark, she rose and was about to
draw down the blinds, when she perceived the
shadow of a figure in the shrubbery, when she
looked more closely it had disappeared;
feeling sure some one was lurking  near
with a purpose in view, she left the library
where her cousin was sitting so composed, and
taking up a scarf that hung in the hall, and
carelessly wrapping it around her, so as to
screen her face a little, she stepped out
into the open air and soon reached the old
garden, where she felt sure some one was in
waiting. She was right, a woman came hastily
forward evidently greatly agitated and with-
out attempting to conceal her emotion in a soft
mellow voice and touching Miss Conway's arm
nquired, "Are you Lady Anna Hilliard?"
"No, madam, I am her cousin!" replied the
young lady, at the same time realizing she was
most awkwardly situated and by her own voli-
tion; she was sorry for having come into the
garden, and a hundred thoughts and evil pre-
monitions crept into her mind momentarily.
	The stranger hesitated when she learned it
was not the one she had supposed, and her
silence was only broken by suppressed sobs
that seemed to come from her inmost heart.
At last she said "I am treading on dangerous
ground, but my errand here justifies the
veuture. I am the mother of Lady Anna's
lover, and I must see her if it be possible, you
who refused my boy admittance, will surely not
deny his mother, I implore you to allow me to
speak to her for a few minutes here and alone.
My carriage waits outside the grounds of the
Castle. I have stolen my way hither, must I
ask in vain of you—a woman?" All this
seemed to come in a torrent of speech, and
Miss Conway regretted more than before that
she had precipitated this unexpected interview,
she did not dare to promise, she was afraid of
the consequences, but some reply must be made
immediately, and she answered with as much
assurance as she could collect. "My cousin is
not well; excitement would be dangerous for
her, my uncle is at home, and his consent
would be necessary." The lady hesitated and
finally said "I will even risk that if it can be
done without the knowledge of any other per-
son. My presence here would be ruinous to
all my son's hopes. I will wait until you re-
turn," and the lady shivered with nervous
tremor. She was wrapped in heavy furs, her
long cloak came to her very feet, her face
though sad was extremely lovely, and she had
the peculiar fascination that in woman seldom
fails to secure its object.
	While Miss Conway was absent she paced up
and down the old, wild garden, her thoughts
busy with the past, how strange that she
should come bending for favor to this place
where for nearly thirty years she had been an
utter stranger, and to him of all others, who
had thrown her love away as though it had
been a blight upon his life; the time seemed
long to this beautiful woman, yet it was only
a few minutes.
	Poor cousin Jane seemed doomed to be a
mediator and messenger of evil tidings and on
this occasion, strange, passing strange was her
message to her uncle she did not stop to con-
sider the danger to herself, or to him; she
thought only, how important must be the
matter that would cause a lady of rank and
station to come at night, alone, unbidden into
the garden of her sworn enemy; the very
thought gave her courage; she hastened to the
house knocked at the door of her uncle's room
and in a moment was in his presence. Before
he could speak, she hurriedly explained her
errand, and was surprised when he said, "I
will see Lady Walton myself, if she will come


[Column 1]

into the drawing room with you, but she must
not see Anna."
	Miss Conway did not wait for her uncle to
change his mind but flew to the garden, and
delivered his answer in the exact words.
Meantime Sir Edward suffered the most con-
flicting emotions. It was years since he had
seen this woman, he fancied that like himself
she would have grown old and clumsy, and
yet somehow his heart beat more rapidly as he
neared the drawing room;—he opened the
door. she was not there, he stood a moment
waiting, and growing more uncomfortable, for
such meetings are more awkward when one
waits, he heard footsteps and felt nervous
enough to hide himself like a bashful boy—
but Jane came to his relief, with the lady
leaning upon her arm, he was non plussed when
he saw this charming aristocratic woman in-
stead of one faded, wrinkled and grey that he
could scarcely even say "Lady Walton"—but
he was a man of the world, and he would not
let her see his embarrassment. His niece had
arranged seats for them by the fire, and with-
out the ceremony usual among people of rank
they were soon seated; while Jane stood as if in
doubt what the next move was to be. "I
make no apology for my presence here which
must be in the light of an intrusion, but I come
to speak for Maitland, my son," said the Lady,
"he has fallen desperately in love with Lady
Anna, your daughter, do not destroy his happi-
ness, and wreck his hopes as you once did
mine;" the Baronet rose to his feet, and turned
deathly pale—Jane feared he was going to
faint—she knew not what to do, or say, the
look upon his face was alarming, he tried to
speak—Lady Walton too had risen from her
chair, it was the first time they had met for
many years, and no explanation had ever been
made, and now the truth was coming to light,
the deception that had separated them, at last
he stammered, "I do not understand you, but
I cannot speak of that terrible past it is buried
forever." "Shall there be peace between us
then?" said Lady Walton in her sweetest voice,
the tears filling her eyes as she spoke, and
reaching out her hand to him, from which
she had hastily removed her glove. Sir Edward
would have been a brute indeed if he
could have refused such an offer, he was about
to raise the proffered hand to his lips, but she
withdrew it from his grasp and retreated a few
steps backward, and as she did so, said, "Sir
Edward what answer have you to make to my
question concerning our children?" "I cannot
answer on the impulse of the moment, this in-
terview has been a painful one I fear to both
of us, I will think the matter over, send the
young man to me I will see what there is in
him, as for Anna, she is a child, her mother
over again, she does not know what love
means, I am going to take her abroad, thought
of leaving the old ruin tomorrow;"—"but you
will wait until you have seen my boy Sir
Edward," said Lady Walton. "I suppose I
must, women generally have things their own
way, but remember I make no promises." And
so ended this strange meeting, without a good
nigh;t the Baronet insisted upon seeing her to
her carriage, but she would not permit it, his
niece accompanied her and saw her safely
seated inside, then hurried to the drawing room
where she had left her uncle; he was watching
for her to inquire what the Lady had said after
leaving him. "Not a word about you or the re-
sult of the interview, she pressed my hand at
parting and said, you are a wonderfully self-
possessed young woman, your presence gave
me great courage." "Sit down Jane" said her
uncle, "I want to talk to you, of the past, it
has been a sealed book for many long years;
but I must open its pages now, the time has
come, and you Jane are worthy my confi-
dence."
	It was late when the Baronet retired to rest

[Column 2]

that eventful night, and his nurse had to give
him an opiate, lest he should not sleep at all,
the remembrance of the past was awakened,
and the woman whom he had hated with
bitterness had come entreating a favor at his
hands; that she was still beautiful was greatly
to her advantage, had she been ugly and
wrinkled her cause might have been lost. He
had opened his heart to Jane, told her how
this woman had jilted him, and how after some
years of bachelorhood he had married Anna's
mother, a sweet-tempered, affectionate, angelic
young girl, an only daughter of an illustrious
family, who adored him with her whole soul.
	As for Jane she never closed her eyes, that
night at all, she hardly knew what to think,
she had only been in the house a few months,
and strange events had crowded one upon
another until her brain was almost bewildered
clear headed as she had thought herself; as
she lay trying to rest herself she pondered
upon the morrow, the coming of Maitland
Walton, her uncle had signified what his
answer would be to this young man, in his
conversation with her, and she could not help
wondering what would come next, and whether
after all they would go to Italy, at any rate
she hoped so, and that might change many
other things.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPIRIT OF RIGHT AND WRONG.
			   
	There's ever a spirit of right and wrong,
		A spirit of joy, and sorrow;
	But no matter how dark today may seem,
		There's hope for a bright tomorrow.
	Tho' friends may be few, if their hearts are true
	Take courage dear friend, there’s hope for you.

	How oft in this world do our friends prove false,
		And how oft dark clouds hang o’er us;
	But we ever may rise above our foes,
		And clear a bright path before us.
	Put our trust in God and hold fast the rod,
	They will surely fall as low as the sod!
							ZINA E. CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Dec. 25, 1890.


TWO FACES.

"You can't have your dinner, Benny,
	Till you go and wash your face;
It's all daubed with cake and candy,"
	Softly whispered cousin Grace.

"Some un' else has got the basin,"
	Ben said, turning up his plate,
"And I am so awful hungry,
	I don't feel 's if I could wait."

"Well you must wait," answered Gracie,
	"Go and wash you, nice and quick;
For to eat with face so dirty
	Would make anybody sick."

"You look in the glass," said Benny,
	"See your awful daubs of paint;
Must have made you sick already,
	You look 's if you're goin to faint.

'F you should lick your lips, you'd poison;
	Cake and candy's nice and sweet
Gracie! 'fore ye go to wash ye,
	Please to give me some'un t' eat!"
				MORAL
Consult your mirror, e'er you lightly trace,
What looks like dirt, upon another's face.
								LULA.


The love that never speaks until it does it
on a gravestone doesn't mean much.

	Romance is one thing, but making an
honest living and paying your debts is another.

	More men would be rich if they were not
afraid to trust their wives with the care of
their money.


THE BALLOT AS A MEASURE OF
				REFORM.

	I feel a great reluctance to come before this
audience today to talk upon a subject which
has been so ably and thoroughly discussed by
those so much more capable than myself at
the recent Suffrage Conventions; and my only
apology for so doing,is,that it is only by repeti-
tion that principles and ideas are taught and
fixed in the mind.
	It would seem that in this latter part of the
19th Century, there should be no need to prove
the value of the ballot, as a weapon of defense
protection or reform; and yet, although en-
lightened men all over our country are willing
to grant to us this privilege, many women are
holding back and saying "We do not want it.
We wouldn't be so unladylike as to vote, and 
besides we have all the rights we want.”—So
much has prejudice done to woman.
	A happy wife blessed by all the comforts of
home,and the protecting care of her husband,
her children by her side, and sheltered by her
loving arm, feels that she has all the rights
desired and sneers contemptuously at the agi-
tators of suffrage, thinks they had better be at
home caring for their households, and holds
herself up as a pattern of propriety by con-
trast.
	My dear other women have talked the same,
but the time has come in their lives when be-
reft of the protecting care of husband and
father, they have been brought face to face
with the protecting arm of the law, that law
made by men for men, and have felt their own
powerlessness and at what disadvantage, a wo-
man stands when thrown upon her own re-
sources for livelihood; and in their extremity
have said, "Oh for a voice in making these
laws?"
	Vast improvement has taken place in the
condition of women since that day when a
small band went out from a man's convention
and in a session room organized the first suff-
rage society. Women are enjoying the results
of the labors of those pioneer workers.
Property rights have been multiplied,great gains
have been made in educational opportunities,
in business advantages,and greater freedom is
enjoyed from restricting prejudice, so that it
would almost seem there is little more to ask
for. Yet how many realize to whom they are
indebted for these privileges they enjoy, when
they shake their heads at suffrage agitators.
	The mother of that boy just growing into 
manhood, comes face to face with a problem
which proves to her how important is she as
the guardian of the home.
	Rev. Anna Shaw said to us, that the fallacy
and untruth of the old saying "The hand that
rocks the cradle moves the world," lay in the
fact that the children do not always stay in
the cradle. Alas no! If they did, the 
mother might move them and the world,
but a few years takes them from the cradle
into the world so full of pitfalls, and then the
mother's hand is powerless to save. And when
she sees her boy being drawn into the seething
maelstrom of vice, the cry that comes from
her agonized heart is not alone, "God save my
child?" but it is "oh, that I might stretch forth
my hand, and with the mighty weapon of the
ballot close those doors of perdition that open
before him!"
	Even yet in some of our states a mother has
no legal right to her own children; and al-
though the smallest school boy will tell us a
Republic is a government by the people and
for the people, and that the United States is a
Republic, we are forced to correct him and say,
oh, no, my son, the United States is governed
only by one half the people. The other half
are slaves, governed, controlled, cared for and
protected by the half who wield the ballot—
		[ Continued on page 78.]


[Column 1]

THE BALLOT AS A MEASURE OF
REFORM.

	[Concluded.]
And he says why should the goddess of
Liberty be a woman and be placed upon the
Capitol building at Washington?" And we
say, "Oh, that is only a poetic fable. It looks
well!"
	More than one-seventh of all the bread-
winners of the United States are women, and
we know how underpaid their labor has been
and is.
	We are told that in New York City 200,000
women work at trades.
	Of these 27,000 support their husbands. In
the employments where the lowest wages are
paid 70 per cent of the workers are women,
while in those employments where as high as
20 dollars a week are paid only 3 per cent are
women.
	The industrial disenthrallment of women is
then one of the measures not yet fully ob-
ained.

[Column 2]

	The old objections to woman's suffrage are
seldom heard now-a-days. There are few peo-
ple who will claim woman is so mentally in-
ferior to man as to be incapable of using the
ballot.
	The position that woman has taken in all
kinds of labor, trades or professions has
proven the absurdity of such an objection,
With women lawyers, doctors and preachers
taking high rank in their professions; with
woman at the head in art, literature or
science the fact of their mental strength has
been satisfactorily demonstrated. If they are
physically weaker. the ballot has been as will-
ingly bestowed upon the weakest man as upon
the pugilist Sullivan, and every foreign immi-
grant who lands upon our shores can in a
short time become an American sovereign by
virtue of the ballot, regardless of his height,
weight or mental capacity, if he falls short of
complete idiocy or lunacy. Sex only is the
crime to debar them from franchise.
	Of the 12.000.000 American women it has
been found by the last census that 89 per cent
of them can read and write while a large pro-
portion of men cannot read the ballot they
cast, thus proving, if intelligence was made
the standard of qualification for franchise as
it should be, the lines would not be drawn
where they now are.
	As to the old objection that it will take wo-
man from her cares and cause her to neglect
her family, no thoughtful person will enter-
tain such an idea.
	It certainly will take no longer for a woman
to go out and vote, than to go shopping, to
the circus or to an afternoon tea, and probably
some one can be found to take care of the baby
upon voting day as well as upon the other
hundred and one occasions when a woman
spends an hour from home.
	Women seem to have time to attend any
society or club where their especial province
is to get up supper's, or help raise money &c.,
and no one seems to object, not even the wo-
men themselves.
	A very intelligent lady of Ashtabula, said to
me a few days since. "I believe in woman
suffrage, but I do not think women should
hold office. I think it would be a terrible
thing for a woman to be President of the United
States."
	Well I have not worried about that yet. I
think it would be a terrible thing for a wo-
man to run for the Presidency, with the politi-
cal parties in the condition they are at present.
To be dragged in the filth and mire of politi-
cal intrigue and wire pulling during a cam-
paign, and be obliged to toady to every
whiskey distiller or beer brewer, who controled
a large number of votes, I do think it would
be a terrible thing. But I also think it is a
terrible tiling for a man, to run for office
now-a-days. I sympathize with Col. Mulberry
Sellers when he asks what he has ever done,
that his friends should think so meanly of him
as to want him to stoop to be a congressman.
	No, we will not look so far ahead as that.
What we see now, is the nation's need of wo-
man to purify politics; to lift politics out of
the control of King Alcohol, and when lifted
and purified if the nation should ever find that
the fittest citizen for chief executive, in all
this great commonwealth was a woman we
will try and bear the infliction with becoming
womanly fortitude hoping that by that time,
the position will be elevated sufficiently to
meet the exigency of the case, and that woman
may not be degraded by accepting it.—The
history of England under Victoria and Eliza-
beth's reign will prove woman's ability to fill
a position of power.
	Another argument in favor of Equal rights
of the sexes is, that any thing which elevates
educates or broadens the mind of the mothers
of the race, must benefit the race. When we

[Column 3]

are free, our sons will be born of free women,
and we can expect greater statesmen, and
nobler men with enfranchised, thinking
mothers.
	We do not believe that all women are now
sufficiently educated to vote intelligently. Few
men are.
	We do believe if suffrage is granted to wo-
man she will conscientiously strive to know
what she is doing, and on all moral questions
she will be inclined to right that she will look
more to the character, and record of the con-
didate than to the party he represents. Indeed
it is said in Wyoming that a man dare not run
for office there, if he has not a clear record be-
hind him.
	It is also said, women do not seem to seek
or desire office for themselves but they are
mighty particular whom they put in office.
When our country has men with white souls
and clean hands in office then shall the muddy
stream of politics run clear.
	We do not expect that women will always
vote right. In fact they have a right to make
mistakes, a few of them, when their brothers
have been making them for ages. Carlysle
says "Man's walk is a succession of falls," and
if a woman stumbles occasionally even in
politics we cannot wonder. One thing is in
her favor. When she slips she is quite apt to
land upon her feet.
	As to tariff and free trade and protection,
and protection free trade and tariff, we believe
with Miss Shaw in home protection, and if we
should get into the intricacies of these subjects
we shall probably be as able to disentangle
them, as Sambo was when the franchise was
given him; or as Mike, Fritz, Henrik Forvald
or Antone Jakamo, who have only been here
a year, or even as, Rain in the face, or Trail 
in the mud out in South Dakota.
	We want laws which protect our homes and
make the same standard of morality for man
as woman, not like the amended Wanzer bill
which make our daughters of full age and re-
sponsibility at 16, and our sons free from legal
restraint until they are 21.
	We want to feel the world was made for
women too, and that a woman bread-winner
for the same labor can get as much for her 10
hours as man.
	We do not like to think of those poor sew-
ing women in New York who are making
shirts at 6 cents a piece and furnishing their
own thread.
	And we would like an opportunity to help
men to cast off the shackles of political
"bossism," and aid them to make such restric-
tions as shall put the right of franchise on an
educational basis. And then when no one
shall be enfranchised man or woman who is
not able to read the ballot he or she cast, our
boys who must live 21 years before they can
vote will have a better chance to save our
nation from this element of anarchy and
socialism, which is being poured in upon us
from the prisons and Alms houses of the old
world at the rate of half a million of voters
every five years.
	As for home protection and the need of it,
the mothers realized this when less than 20
years ago goaded on by mother love and the
agony of seeing their loved ones filled by the
relentless destroyer rum, they put aside the re-
straints which prejudice had imposed upon their
sex, and inaugurated the crusade against the
saloons. It was the act of desparation, the up-
rising of the mother spirit which would sacri-
fice itself in defense of its dear ones. But the
saloons are still with us. Our boys are beset
by temptation upon every hand, and still our
government reaps the benefit of the dealers
license to destroy them. There are
12,000,000 citizens in the United States of
suitable age, and elegible to the franchise ex-
cept for the crime of sex who would protest


[Column 1]

against this, but they are voiceless. Since the
days of the crusade what means have been left
untried, what work has been left undone, by
women in defense of their homes.
	Women have prayed, and seen their sons
and husbands die before their eyes from the
effects of drink.
	Every day we have object lessons. Every
newspaper contains a temperance sermon and
yet the saloons are with us.
	We look to the churches and to the clergy
for help and are disappointed and heart sick to
see the apathy and indifference with which
we are met.
	The W. C. T. U. of Ashtabula a short time
age engaged the Hon. Lou. Beauchamp for a
series of Gospel temperance lectures. Ladies
canvassed the town going from house to house
to invite the people to come out.
	But the opening night with only 150 present
a large proportion of those children was so
discouraging as to end the project, and Mr.
Beauchamp left us. Not one clergyman was
present to support him.
	Of course there are reasons why it thus
happened, for we have at least two clergymen
who are usually found present on such occa-
sions. But generally speaking it would seem
as if the modern theology did not teach "woe
unto him that giveth his neighbor drink."
	What then is left for women to do? We
are told to pray. Did it ever occur to you
how willing men and politicians are to have
women do the praying for them? They even
allow them to make the major part of the
church congregations for that purpose, and to
get up socials, and raise funds, etc. But they
are not willing they should have a voice in
the church government.
	Far be it from my purpose to arraign any
church, but the question has been so recently
forced upon us, in the refusal to admit women
to the general conference of the M. E. Church,
that we can but remember it.
	Sixty thousand foreigners landed at Castle
Garden last month, the majority of these can-
not read, write or speak our language, yet in
one year in the Western States where they are
distributed they will become kings by virtue
of the franchise, the right to wield the ballot,
and the political parties will cater to them be-
cause they are voters. While 12,000,000 dis-
franchised women sit quietly down and let them
vote whiskey down their children's throats, and
are powerless to prevent it. If their prayers
are no more effective than when they petition
to men, we may doubt their efficacy. For we
have seen petition after petition set aside and
disregarded because the petitioners were only
women and have no vote. We want to vote
as we pray. It is the voters petition that is
deferred to, that is legislated upon, for the
legislator knows that unless he heeds such
petitions he will so to speak lose his head upon
the block of the party machine or he will at
the end of his term be relegated to the realms
of inocuous desuetude.
	But we are thankful we can see a brighter
day dawning. During the last year under the
charge of the platform committee, two millions
of voters, not women, but men have affixed
their names to petitions for woman suffrage.
Wyoming women will vote for the next Presi-
dent of the United States, Kansas has muni-
cipal suffrage and 22 states school suffrage.
As Hon. E. B. Taylor said at Warren, "the
walls of the political Jericho are undermined,
the women are blowing the trumpets about
them, and they are liable at any hour to fall
in."
	When they fall women will hold the balance
of power. Astute politicians foresee this and
the better class are favoring it, seeing therein
a way out of the control of the bummer ele-
ment in politics. If women only will be true
to themselves and think more of principle

[Column 2]

than popularity, the battle will not be long,
nor the victory afar off. When woman has
the ballot the saloons must go.
	As for woman suffrage causing quarrels in
the family, I believe the reverse would be true.
Look how men cater to and after the voter
now, and think how they will do the same to
us, when we hold the balance of power, or as
we shall do when enfranchised. Why, bless
you, my sisters, your husbands will be kinder
than ever before to you, especially near elec-
tion time. They may do as well by you as
they do by the illiterate voter now, whom
they treat to whiskey and cigars so freely be-
fore election.
	They will at least try and conciliate you if
there is danger of your voting differently from
them, and if you vote with them and for right,
morality and temperance, you will strengthen
the cause one hundred fold.
			ETTA L. GILCHRIST, M. D.
	Ashtabula, Ohio.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]

FEAR NOT FOR ZION.

	This is indeed an interesting period in the history
of this people, and those who have been looking
forward for a great change to transpire that Zion
might be liberated from bondage, ought to take
into consideration, how often it has been repeated
to the Saints, that the Lord's ways are not as
man's ways, and that great things never come
about as even wise men anticipate. The Lord
works in a mysterious way, and sometimes it is
best to stand and wait, especially until one is sure
of going in the right direction.
	Could anything have been required of the
Saints more uncertain than the exodus from
Nauvoo? many weakened in their faith and had
not the courage to start upon the journey, others
had just faith enough to get to the first stopping
place "Richardson's Point" in the State of Iowa,
and turned back again; the writer remembers
well, the sermon of President Young at that place
and  his prophecy concerning those who left the
camp to go back, and his words were fulfilled to
the very letter.
	It was very trying to endure all the privations
and hardships of that journey and the prolonged
stay at Winter Quarters, and many grew faint
and weary though their faith failed not, and hun-
dreds perished and lie in unknown graves; and
yet looking back upon it today who of all those,
who suffered these perils by the way could say
now, that it would have been better to stay in
Nauvoo, and meet the deadly foe face to face
expecting deliverance in their own way from the
hands of their enemies.
	The Lord revealed to Brigham Young the way
of deliverance and it proved a safe way. It was
not the way Sidney Rigdon and some other lead-
ing men pointed out, but it proved to be the right
way, and those who followed it and sustained the
majority of the Apostles found to their perfect
satisfaction that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Young and opened up a way by which they
could come into a land prophesied of, where
Temples could be erected and the work of re-
demption for the living and the dead could be per-
formed and many thousands of "spirits in prison"
be released from bondage.
	Much has been accomplished in the great
Latter-day work since coming to these valleys,
and there is no doubt much more and greater
work yet to be done before the ushering in of the
Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do
nothing except He reveal it to His servants the
prophets. And when they receive the word of
the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should
seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient
humility and faith for that, stand still and watch
and pray without ceasing and they will not go far
astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the
experience of the past has proven most effectually
that they will fall into darkness, error and unbe-

[Column 2]

lief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and un-
happy.
	The Lord is working with His people at the
present time, and some things are undergoing a
change, as great perhaps as the exodus from
Nauvoo, though an entirely different one, and
doubtless there are many who will be tried and
wonder what will be the result, but those who are
humble and trust God implicitly with child-like
faith will be able to stand, but it must be by faith,
such mighty faith as Abram had in the hour of
need.
	Women as well as men need this strong faith
in the Gospel, and without it they will be unable
to endure; they too need testimony and convic-
tion and knowledge for themselves, and as our
Heavenly Father loves His daughters as well as
His sons, and chasteneth those He loveth, women
must take up their cross as bravely and willingly
as their brothers. He has a purpose in view in
the change now being made throughout the
Church, and though His people are not permitted
to see clearly what is to be brought about
through the sacrifice required, trust Him always,
He will never forsake those who rely upon Him.
The ones who are most severely tried are those
who will receive the greater blessings, this should
comfort the sorrowing ones, He will "sanctify to
them their deepest distress." God has not for-
saken his faithful saints, no more than He had
Abraham, when He commanded Him to offer up
his son. If the nearest and dearest are taken,
still the true saint can look up and trust Him.
When the clouds are heaviest then He smiles
through them, and the bitter experiences of those
who have made covenants with Him in holy
places will yet be a stay and anchor to their souls
for those eternal covenants reach behind the
veil.
	The Saints should prophesy good concerning
Zion, and concerning the daughters of Zion, for
the day of triumph is at hand; the inscrutable
ways of the Lord are past finding out, yet His
people need not fear, His work will roll onward
and Zion will prosper and the enemies of the
Saints will be left without excuse.
	Those who are trying to serve the Lord and
help establish His Church in the earth must stand
by the cause they have espoused through storms
as well as sunshine, and if they can endure all
things, then will they be counted worthy to reign
with Him, who descended beneath all. To those
who are aiming for the highest exaltation, nothing
should seem too hard to pass through. Again
and again in ancient and modern revelation has
the Lord said He would have a tried people even
"as gold seven times purified," therefore the
Saints should not murmur as did ancient Israel
lest they lose sight of "the prize of the high call-
ing."

	"In the cruel fire of sorrow
		Cast thy heart, do not faint or wail;
	Let thy hand be firm and steady,
		Do not let thy spirit quail;
	But wait till the trial is over,
		And take thy heart again;
	For as gold is tried by fire,
		So a heart must be tried by pain!"


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In this number of the paper will be found two
articles upon woman suffrage both of them from
able writers, one a man the other a woman. We
trust these articles will be compared and that
others will give their views, upon this open ques-
tion.
	From Sisters Betsy C. Glover, Jane Cowan
and others, bouquets of late summer and autumn
flowers have been sent to grace our little sanctum
of late; such gifts are always acceptable, they


speak tenderly to the heart and are fragrant re-
minders of pleasant friends, as well as a delight
for the eye to rest upon. Many thanks dear
friends for these tokens of kindly remembrance.

	There will be a Grand Ball given in the Salt
Lake Theatre in this City on Friday evening
Nov. 20th, for the Benefit of the Deseret Hospital.
The tickets are being sold and great preparations
are going on to make the affair an attractive one
and a financial success. The best band that can
be obtained will furnish the music, and a bevy of
young girls will have booths for the sale of
flowers and candy—the greenroom will be hand-
somely decorated for the occasion, and the young
ladies will appear in unique and charming cos-
tumes. The Young Ladies’ Mandolin Club Mrs
Tizzie Clowson leader will appear during the eve-
ing which will be another added attraction. The
Hospital has done an immense amount of charity
work and its doors are ever open to the un-
fortunate and afflicted; in consequence of there
being no special endowment for it, means has to
be solicited from time to time to keep the institu-
tion in running order. The President of this
Stake of Zion and the Bishops have spoken
favorably of this party in public places and no
doubt there will be, as there certainly should be,a
hearty response from the people in the purchase
of tickets, and as the party will be first class in
every sense of the word they will get the worth of
their money in genuine enjoyment, and at the
same time be helping forward a worthy object.


A NEW STORY BOOK.

	There is about to be published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor in this City, a new home
book suitable for the holidays. It will be entirely
a home production of stories from real life; and
will contain vivid descriptions of scenery and
incidents of New England in the earlier days, and
also the New West.
	The title of the book will be “Aunt Em’s
Stories,” and will open with Hephzibah which
was published sometime ago as a serial.
	There is a field in Utah for books of this sort,
or this class of reading, the supply of home story
books is not equal to the demand. This will be
the first book of the kind published at home.
Many books of a more serious style have been
written and published here and quite a number of
books of poems, children’s books,etc., and this is
therefore a new venture in the field of home
literature.


PRESS WOMEN IN BOSTON.

	Letters, telegrams and notes of invitation have
been sent to us to be present at the first meeting
for the Federation of Women’s Press Clubs in
Boston on the eleventh of the present month—
it has been a source of deep regret that we were
unable to attend and help on with the enterprise
started last winter in Washington.
	The New England Woman's Press Club invited
the members of the Woman’s International
Press Federation to be their guests and will give
a reception at the Parker House.
	The forenoon will be a business meeting the
afternoon will be an open meeting to which all
press women will be invited and the evening a
banquet at the Parker House.
	Such opportunities are rare and ought not to
be neglected, they are the milestones that count
woman’s progress in the path of progression and
enlightenment—and they open up avenues of
communication between those whose lives have
lain wide apart, and perchance misunderstood by
each other and awaken interest in those afar off
that strengthens the bond of human sisterhood


and shows us how much we all have yet to learn
in the lessons of charity and fellowship before
we can come into a knowledge of the whole truths
of the universe and enjoy the universal brother-
hood which through love is to redeem the world.
	The women of the press have an immense
power for good, to mold the minds of others, to
influence the multitudes that may never see them
or hear their voices, yet they can wield a potent
sway by means of the pen, and so subtle is this
impress that it is not perceptible, but grows to
giant proportions without scarcely a sound
even a whisper. How careful shonld the writer
be of the power he exercises, that it should be for
the good of all who may partake of its spirit.
	This meeting and entertainment in Boston has
been arranged to precede the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Convention, so as to secure railroad
rates for both at one time and make the journey
count for two purposes. It is good economy to
begin with, and besides saving of means and
strength. 
	Some of the brightest and brainiest women in
the world, will be gathered at the hub in this 
Federation, as well as in the W. C. T. U.
	It is greatly to be regretted that there are not
better facilities for free transportation to and from 
these great assemblies of women.
	The dispatches will give us news of this meet-
ing ere long, for when such an assembly of wo-
men are gathered in a city as famous as Boston 
the reporters are sure to write them up, and there 
will be something worth telling for the fair and 
the brave, the poet, the scholar, the novelist and
author of many books, the brilliant and witty, and 
the thoughtful will be there. It is a pleasure 
in itself to meet in social contact the people, who 
have made a name in the world of literature by
their own literary efforts and whose books, or
poems, or articles one has read and queried con-
cerning the writer. To see a large concourse of 
women who can earn money by the pen is a
picture worth gazing upon, and a study that is in-
deed worth contemplating; after all human nature
is the highest subject and the most fascinating,
and the people who have really accomplished 
some brilliant undertaking are the ones most in-
teresting to the observer. The very fact of these
women coming together is one of the signs of the 
times, telling in trumpet tones of the rapid strides
being made-towards woman's emancipation from
ignorance and bondage.
	Women are thinking to some purpose not aim-
lessly, not with rivalry nor any sinister motive in
view, but for the best good of humanity and for
this they are willing to make some sacrifices, that
a brighter day may be heralded in and universal
liberty envelop one and all under its broad
canopy of equal rights and privileges.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB ORGANIZED.

	Pursuant to a call made by letter to a large
number of women writers, a meeting was held on
Saturday Oct. 31, 1891, at the Office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT in this City for the purpose of
organizing a Woman's Press Association for the
women engaged in active journalistic or news-
paper work in Utah Ter.
	Quite a number of those invited to attend the
meeting responded to the call, (those living at a
distance sent replies by letter), and after some
consultation as to methods of procedure, E. B.
Wells was chosen temporary chairman and Juie
I Mc'Donald secretary pro tem. Prayer was
offered by Lula Greene Richards.
	The nomination of officers was the first busi-
ness to be transacted, after some explanations
having been made by Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Gates.
A motion was put and carried unanimously that
the nominations be made from the body of the
house. The officers elected are—Emmeline B.

[Column 2]

Wells, President; Susa Young Gates, 1st. Vice
Pres.; Lula Greene Richards, 2nd. Vice Pres.;
Martha A. Y. Greenhalgh, Vice President at
large; Annie Wells Cannon, Cor. Sec'y.; Jose-
phine Spencer, Ass't. Cor. Sec'y.; Ellis R. Shipp
M. D., Recording Secretary; Juie Ivins Mc'-
Donald, Ass't. Rec. Sec'y.; Ruth M. Fox, Treas-
urer; Romania B. Pratt M. D., Auditor.
	The discussion of what the club should be
called resulted in the adoption of the name Utah
Woman's Press Club.
	A motion was made and seconded that the
chair appoint a Committee of three to prepare a
Constitution and By-Laws for the club.
	The chair accordingly appointed Susa Y. Gates
of Provo, Romania B. Pratt of Salt Lake City,
and Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, as such Com-
mittee.
	The Committee drew up the following articles
which were presented and adopted.
CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I.—Name.
	This organization shall be called the Utah
Woman's Press Club.
ARTICLE II.—Object.
	The object of this club shall be to further the
literary development and interests of women, and
to foster and strengthen individual efforts by
means of organization.
ARTICLE III.—Membership.
	Any woman who writes for a creditable journal
newspaper or other publication shall be eligible
to membership.
ARTICLE IV.—Officers.
	The officers of this club shall be a President,
two local Vice Presidents, one Vice President at
large, a Cor. Sec'y., and Ass't. Cor. Sec'y., a Re-
cording Sec'y., and Ass't. Rec. Sec'y., a Treas-
urer and Auditor, to be elected annually.
ARTICLE V.—Executive.
	The Executive Board shall consist of the Presi-
dent and three officers of the Club, viz: The
second Vice Pres., the Cor. and Rec. Secre-
taries.
ARTICLE VI.—Credential Com.
	The Corresponding Secretary and the Record-
ing Secretary and Treasurer shall compose the
Committee on Credentials.
ARTICLE VII.—Offices.
	No officer shall serve in the same position for
more than two years in succession.
ARTICLE VIII.—Amendments.
	This Constitution may be amended at any
regular meeting of the club, due notice having
been given beforehand.
			SUSA YOUNG GATES,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			LUCY A. CLARK,
				Committee.
	A suggestion was made by Susa Y. Gates that
each member should contribute for the first meet-
ing an original article or address, or such a
selected article as should further the object for
which the club was organized, or be subject to a
fine not to exceed twenty five cents.
	After some practical hints upon club work by
members present an adjournment was taken and
an appointment made for the next meeting to be
held at the same place on Wednesday Nov. 30,
at seven o'clock in the evening.
		JUIE I. MC'DONALD, Sec. Pro tem.


EXTRACTS FROM PRES. WOODRUFF'S
		SERMON AT LOGAN.

		[Sunday Nov. 1st, 1891.]
	I have had some revelations of late and very im-
portant ones to me, and I will tell you what the

[column 2]
﻿Lord has said to me. Let me bring your minds
to what is termed the manifesto. The Lord has
told me by revelation that there are many mem-
bers of the Church throughout Zion who are sorely
tried in their hearts because of that manifesto,
and also because of the testimony of the Presi-
dency of this Church and the Apostles before the
Master in Chancery. Since I received that revela-
tion I have heard of many who are tried in these
things, though I had not heard of any before that,
particularly. Now the Lord has commanded me to
do one thing, and I fulfilled that commandment
at the conference at Brigham City last Sunday,
and I will do the same here today. The Lord
has told me to ask the Latter-day Saints a ques-
tion, and He also told me that if they would listen
to what I said to them and answer the question
put to them, by the spirit and power of God, they
would all answer alike, and they would all believe
alike with regard to this matter. The question is
this: Which is the wisest course for the Latter-
day Saints to pursue—to continue to attempt to
practice plural marriage, with the laws of the
nation against it and the opposition of sixty
millions of people, and at the cost of the confis-
cation and loss of all the Temples, and the stop-
ping of all the ordinances therein, both for the
living and the dead, and the im-
prisonment of the First Presidency and Twelve
and the heads of families in the Church, and the
confiscation of personal property of the people
(all of which of themselves would stop the
practice), or after doing and suffering what we
have through our adherence to this principle to
cease the practice and submit to the law, and
through doing so leave the Prophets, Apostles
and fathers at home, so that they can instruct the
people and attend to the duties of the Church,
and also leave the Temples in the hands of the
Saints, so that they can attend to the ordinances
of the Gospel, both for the living and the dead?
	The Lord showed me by vision anh revelation,
exactly what would take place if we did not stop
this practice. If we had not stopped it, you
would have had no use for Brother Merrill, * or
for any of the men in this temple at Logan; for
all ordinances would be stopped throughout the
land of Zion. Confusion would reign throughout
Israel, and many men would be made prisoners.
This trouble would have come upon the whole
Church, and we should have been compelled to
stop the practice. Now, the question is, whether it
should be stopped in this manner, or in the way
the Lord has manifested to us, and leave our
prophets and apostles and fathers free men, and
the temples in the hands of the people, so that the
dead may be redeemed. A large number has al-
ready been delivered from the prison house in the
spirit world by this people, and shall the work go
on or stop? This is the question I lay before
the Latter-day Saints. You have to judge for
yourselves. I want you to answer it for your
selves. I shall not answer it; but I say to you
that that is exactly the condition we as a people
would have been in had we not taken the course
we have.
	I know there are a good many men, and prob-
ably some leading men, in this Church who have
been tried and felt as though President Woodruff
had lost the Spirit of God and was about to apos-
tatize. Now, I want you to understand that he
has not lost the Spirit, nor is he about to aposta-
tize. The Lord is with him, and with this peo-
ple. He has told me exactly what to do, and
what the result would be if we did not do it. I
have been called upon by friends outside of the
Church and urged to take some steps with regard
to this matter. They knew the course which the
government were determined to take. This feel-
ing has also been manifested more or less by
members of the Church. I saw exactly what
would come to pass if there was not something
done. I have had this spirit upon me for a long


time. But I want to say this: I should have let
all the temples go out of our hands; I should
have gone to prison myself,and let every other man
go there, had not the God of heaven commanded
me to do what I did do; and when the hour came
that I was commanded to do that, it was all clear
to me. I went before the Lord, and I wrote what
the Lord told me to write. I laid it before my
brethren—such strong men as Brother Geo. Q.
Cannon, Brother Jos. F. Smith, and the Twelve
Apostles. I might as well undertake to turn an
army with banners out of its course as to turn
them out of a course that they considered to be
right. These men agreed with me, and ten
thousand Latter-day Saints also agreed with me.
Why? Because they were moved upon by the
Spirit of God and by the revelations of Jesus
Christ to do it.
	I leave this with you, for you to contemplate
and consider. The Lord is at work with us. He
is doing things here that you do not comprehend.
Make these matters a subject of prayer. Do not
worry; do not feel bad about them.
	I rejoice that God has revealed to us the
Gospel. I rejoice I live in a day and generation
when we have the Church of God on the earth.
We have had prophets and apostles among us.
They have worked here in the flesh and saved
many souls. They have died and gone to the
spirit world. Joseph Smith holds the keys of this
dispensation. He will hold them to the endless
ages of eternity, no matter who may lead the
Church after him. The Lord has given us power
to come here and build temples. We have three
temples erected in these mountains, and many of
the dead have been redeemed in them, and they
will have a part in the first resurrection. There-
fore, we ought to be thankful to the Lord. We
want to continue in these temples. We want
them to be occupied by the Latter-day Saints.
We want our brethren and sisters to continue to
go there and redeem the dead and bless the liv-
ing. The Lord will take care of you and your
families. He will take care of Zion, and of this
generation, and He will fulfill all that He has
said.
	I say, God bless you. And He will bless you
if you will hearken to His counsels.
	I want the Latter-day Saints to stop murmuring
and complaining at the providence of God.
Trust in God. Do your duty. Remember your
prayers. Get faith in the Lord, and take hold
and build up Zion. All will be right. The Lord
is going to visit His people, and He is going to
cut His work short in righteousness, lest no flesh
should be saved. I say to you, watch the signs
of the times, and prepare yourselves for that which
is to come. God bless you. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
				REPORTS.

			CASSIA STAKE.
	At last the sisters of this Stake were favored
by a very much appreciated visit from some of
the General Officers, there being present,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards
and also Sister Rogers of the Primary Asso-
ciation and Apostle F. D. Richards.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided over the con-
ference and every ward branch was represented
and reported by its respective officers; financial
reports of each ward were also read.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young was introduced to
the conference and spoke at some length npon
various subjects, prominent among which were
the blessings and freedom from temptations to
be enjoyed in a wayside place; developing of
woman’s intellect; sister’s manner of speech of
their husbands and those in authority before
the children, and their conducting of religious
items at home; care of the dead, temple work.
	Coun Jane S. Richards expressed great
pleasure in visiting a place where all are brothers
and sisters; spoke of the many impurities of a
city; the change in woman’s sphere, how she
found it difficult to adapt herself to it, but
testimonies brought her to know there was
other work for woman than household duties;
how easy to neglect meetings and the conse-
quences; how a sisters’s care will prosper in her
absence on religious duties; our remembrances
of kindnesses. Spoke at some length to the
teachers.
	In the afternoon session, Pres. H. D. Haight
spoke briefly. Spoke of the joy felt in the
presence of the visiting sisters; hoped we would
not be overcome by the allurements they re-
ferred to.
	Sister Rogers of Farmington followed with
much good counsel concerning the Primary
Association and care of children; mothers
should not neglect children for work; not let
them run loose; provide them with suitable
amusements; stated the object of the organiza-
tion of the associations; of the evil habit of
borrowing; on governing children.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young further addressed
the conference, giving some instruction to the
teachers in regard to the disposal of wheat and
the practice of raffling.
	Apostle F. D. Richards addressed the meet-
meeting; enconraged the people concerning
their location and felt there was a great future
for the valley; said now while in peace culti-
vate a spirit to stand, for all that can be shaken
will be shaken; spoke of the hickory nut, it
can scarcely be cracked, yet it sprouts and a
tree comes from it, so the Lord will make His
people a tree of life; spoke at great length on

[column 2]
the Prophet Joseph’s views concerning wo-
man’s work and the interest he took to meet
with and instruct them; read several extracts
from discourses delivered to the sisters by the
Prophet; wives are equal to their husbands
save that the power to be head and director in
the Priesthood is given to man alone. Brother
Richards encouraged the sisters in their labors
and exhorted the brethren to assist them; gave
directions as to how they should proceed in
administering to the sick; anything the Lord
has condescended to tell us surely is worthy our
consideration.
	Pres. Louisa Haight hoped we would not
forget but treasure up what we had heard.  
	The General Board and Stake officers of the
Society were sustained by the assembly. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
				LOUISA P. READ, Sec.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Seventh Conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake convened in the Ashley Ward
meeting house Sept 7th 1891. Pres. Sarah
Pope presiding. Singing, “Come all ye saints
who dwell on earth,” Prayer Bro. C, F. B.
Lybbert. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel.” etc.
minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	Pres S. R. Bennion was pleased to meet
with the sisters in the capacity of a Relief
Society conference. “We are living in a very
peculiar time. We should teach our children
to pray it is very necessary for them to grow
up in the fear of the Lord, have thought many
times that there is not as much interest taken
with the children as there should be;” Gave
some very good instructions to wives and mothers
Bro, E, J- Langhurst “The Lord has said
that where there were but few met together
in his name he would be there and that to
bless them. We are the greatest blest
people on the face of the earth if we only
realize it; We have had a testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and all the promices that
the Lord has made we shall inherit, if we only
prove faithful, but if we do not He will pour
out scourges upon us until we will become as
one. If we lack wisdom let us do as Joseph 
Smith did ask of God, who givith to all men
liberally and upbraideth not.
	Sister Sarah Bird felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting with the sisters; asked
the blesssng of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Bro. N. Merkley said there was nothing
that would make a man feel happier than when
he came in from a hard day’s work to find a
good-natured wife with a clean house and
supper ready, and hear the merry voices of his
children to welcome him home; spoke some
on the principle of tithing.
	Bro. Charles Bartlett said the time was not
far distant when the sisters would have all
they could do in discharging their duties; if
we do not store our minds with useful know-
ledge the time will come when the duties of
motherhood will be a sore trial for us for
when the brethren are all away we will have
to shoulder the whole care of the family,
therefore it is necessary for us to be prepared
to do so. Conference adjourned until 2 P M
Singing, “How firm a foundation ye saints of
the Lord,” Benediction by Sister Phebe Hislop.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, “Who
are these arrayed in white,” Prayer by Sister
A. K. Barlett. Singing, “Think gently of
the erring one.” The Stastistical and financial
report of the stake was then read. The general
and local authorities were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Sister Althura Collott said we are all weak
and frail creatures here upon the earth but
we must take our part; gave the sisters some
very good advice. Sister Hadlock bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel; felt to


rejoice that she lived in this day and age of
the world encouraged the sisters to do right.
Sister A. K. Bartlett thought to be a public
teacher was a very peculiar place to stand in;
we little realize the day in which we live.
We should observe the word of wisdom
especially the young people, gave the mothers
some very good instructions in regard to rear-
ing the children in the fear and admonition
of the Lord. We should always send our
children to Sunday school and whenever an
opportunity presents itself we should be there 
ourselves. Parents should instil the word of
wisdom” into the minds of their children. A
young lady should never go anywhere with a
young man whose breath smells of liquor or
tobacco; spoke of the necessity of mothers 
having faith in the Lord and not give up if
sickness should come but rely on the Lord in
all things and if he sees fit to call one of our
loved ones from us we must submit ourselves
to His will: urged the sisters very forcibly to
teach their girls to become good and useful
mothers in Israel for we are living in the last
and the eleventh hour and it is necessary for us
to improve every moment. Spoke at some
length on jealousy which was very interesting
to all.
	Sister Freestone was pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to endorse what had been said
spoke a few words in regard to Primary.
Sister Abplanalp made a few remarks and
urged the sisters to attend to their prayers.
Bro James Hacking said he had been very
much edified with the remarks of the sisters,
wondered how many of the husbands under-
stood their duty, spoke of the evil that were 
placed before us, and showed the reason why
we should try to shun these temptations.
	Pres. Sarah Pope had been much edified
with the remarks of the speakers, said if we
keep the commandments of God there would
not be so much sickness in our midst; there is
temptation on every hand to lead our children
astray therefore it is very necessary for us to
teach them the principles of the Gospel that
they may shun those evils that present them-
selves day by day; we should teach them to
set out trees and raise fruit of their own that
they may not go and steal from others;
exhorted the sisters to be prayerful and
administer to their children when they are
sick, made a few closing remarks. Conference
adjourned until the first Monday in March.
Singing, “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.”	Benediction by Pres. Sarah Pope.
				ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Woman's
Suffrage Association of Utah County held in
Provo Oct 23rd. 1891, for the election of
Officers for the ensuing year. Meeting was
called to order by Malvina Wilkins; singing
"O, come come away." Prayer by Joanna
Patten. There were present of the Territorial
Officers Vice President Emily S. Richards,
also Ellen Jakeman, of the County Officers
M. J. Patten, Electa Bullock, Caroline M.
Danials; R. H: Doolan, of the vice Presidents
of the County Jane Finch of Spanish Fork,
Hannah Lapish American Fork, Mary Ann
Webb, Lehi, Sarah A. Boyer, Springville.
	M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Millard, who was
appointed to act as chairman protem,
Willmirth White was appointed to act as
secretary. Emily S. Richards stated the
object of the meeting said we would elect our
officers according to Robert's Rules of Order.
which gave us the right to vote by ballot or
appoint a committee to select the names and
vote them in by acclamation and only members
had the right to vote; said it had been decided
to have a county organization as well as a


ocal one; and we would nominate the County 
Officers first. On motion of Willmirth White 
the election of officers was proceeded with by 
ballot. Electa Bullock received the highest 
number of votes for President of the County,
R. H. Doolan Secretary, Marilla Danials 
Treasurer. Mrs. E. S. Richards then read the 
Territorial bylaws and on motion of Mrs. 
Lapish the same were adopted by Utah Co. 
The business of the County being disposed of 
it was thought advisable to nominiate Officers
for the local organization which was done by
ballot. Joanna Patten received the highest 
number of votes for President at Provo,
Caroline Danials 1st vice President, Mary 
Ann Martin 2nd vice President,Lelia Meachum 
Secretary, Jane Snyder Treasurer. An
adjournment was then taken until 2 P. M.
	On reassembling at 2 P. M., meeting was 
called to order by Pres. Joanna Patten. Choir
sang "The reason why." Prayer by Hannah 
Lapish. Choir sang “Praise to God.” Emily 
S. Richards was appointed to act as chairman, 
Willmirth White as secretary protem. The
Officers who received nomination at the 
morning session were unanamously sustained.
Next in order was the appointing of an 
Executive committee which was elected as 
follows.
	Willmirth White chairman. Members
Annie K. Smoot, Hannah Dewy, Zina Chipman,
Malina Wilkins, Alice Faweett, Mrs.
Mcbride, Ann Mitchell, Mesdames Emily S. 
Richards, Martha Greenhalgh, Sarah Boyer
Ellen Jakeman, Joanna Patten, Electa
Bullock, and others gave some very fine
speeches on the question of suffrage and the
advancement of Woman. A meeting of the 
Executive Committee was called for Oct. 30th
and meating adjourned sinede. Sang Doxoligy. 
Benediction, Annie K. Smoot- 
						W, WHITE,Sec;


One of the hardest men in the world to get
along with is the man whose religion is all in
his head.
	It won't help your own crop any to sit on 
the fence and count the weeds in your neigh-
bor's field. 
	The best way to get rid of the blues is to try
to push the clouds away from the windows of 
other people. 
	"Blessed are the merciful." Don't forget
that when you have a mortgage on the home
of a poor widow. 
	History is philosophy teaching by example
and also by warning; its two eyes are geography 
and chronology.
	Of all the actions of a man's life his
marriage does least concern other people, yet
of all actions of our life 'tis most meddled with 
by other people.—Selden.


<column 1>
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

<column 2>
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.

THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $l.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year. 

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		   Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But_
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

[logo of Rio Grande Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
. . THROUGH THE . .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY,
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN 
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WEBBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G, F, & P. A.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
