VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1891.		NO. 7.


CONTENTS.

	In Rural England. Personals. Notes and
News. A Sister's Sacrifice—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. R. S., Y. L. M I. A., and P. A. Reports 
-St. John's—Beaver—Utah—Box Elder—Sco-
field. Colonia Diaz, Mexico—Ada A. Earl. Lord
is It 1?—Mary Y. Corby. The Training of a
Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Notices of
Meetings. Ter. W. S. A. Convention. Confer-
ence Grand Concert. The Irrigation Congress.
The Woman's Store. The Woman's Club.
Poetry:—"The Broomstick Train"—Dr. Oliver
Wendell Holmes. Real and Ideal—E. B. W.
Memory's Guidance—L. M. Hewlings.


"THE BROOMSTICK TRAIN."

	Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has discovered the motive
power of the electric railways. In the Atlantic Monthly
for August he describes "The Broomstick Train," telling
how the Salem witches, impatient at their long imprison-
ment petitioned to be released, and how when the Evil
One allowed them their liberty, they played such mad
pranks that he called them together and, for punishment,
made them pull the electric cars.

	Since then on many a car you'll see
	A broomstick plain as plain can be;
	On every stick there's a witch astride—
	The string you see to her leg is tied.
	She will do a mischief if she can,
	But the string is held by a careful man,
	And whenever the evil-minded witch
	Would cut some caper he gives a twitch.
	As for the hag you can't see her
	But hark! you can hear her black cat's purr,
	And now and then, as a train goes by,
	You may catch a gleam from her wicked eye.

	Often you've looked on a rushing train,
	But just what moved it was not so plain.
	It couldn't be those wires above,
	For they could neither pull nor shove:
	Where was the motor that made it go
	You couldn't guess, but now you know.

	Remember my rhymes when you ride again
	On the rattling rail by the broomstick train!


REAL AND IDEAL.

At times sweet visions float across my mind,
	And glimpses of the unknown bright and fair,
Where all the objects seem so well-defined—
	Tasteful in color, and in beauty-rare,
That I must pause, and think if they be real,
Or only what the poets call ideal.

I well remember when a little child,
	I had these same strange, wand'ring fancies;
And I was told my thoughts were running wild,
	That I must not indulge in such romances,
Wasting in idle dreams the precious hours,
Building air-castles and gazing from the towers.

E'en then I seemed to see familiar things,
	Pertaining to a dim, uncertain past;
And to my recollection faintly clings,
	A sense of something, which the shadows cast.
That showed me what my future life would be,
A prophecy, as 'twere of destiny.

There was an intuition in my heart,
	An innate consciousness of right and wrong,
That bade me choose a wiser, better part,
	Which, in rough places, helped to make me strong


And though my path was oft bereft of beauty,
Still urged me on to fulfil ev'ry duty.

O, happy childhood, bright with faith and hope,
	Enchantment dwells within thy rosy bowers,
And rainbow tints gild all within thy scope,
	And youth sits lightly on a bed of flowers,
His cup of happiness just brimming o'er,
Unconscious of what life has yet in store.

What glowing aspirations fill the mind—
	Of noble work designed for man to do!
What purity of purpose here we find—
	What longings for the beautiful and true;
Ere know we of the toil, the grief and woe;
Or dream that men and women suffer so.

Though all along life's weary, toilsome way,
	We meet with disappointments hard to bear,
Yet strength is given equal to our day,
	And joy is oft'nest mixed with pain and care;
But let us not grow weary in well-doing,
Still persevere the upward path pursuing.

Thus ever struggle on, 'mid doubts and fears,
	While changing scenes before our gaze unfold,
Till, through the vista of long, weary years,
	We see heav'n's sunshine, thro' its gates of gold;
And feel assured it is an answering token.
Aye! though our earthly idols have been broken.

Tho' those we've cherish'd most have been untrue,
	And fond and faithful ones have gone before,
Still let us keep the promises in view,
	Of those who're pleading on "the other shore,"
Whose tender messages are with us yet,
The words of love we never can forget.

And while we muse and ponder, shadows fall,
	And a sweet spirit whispers, "Peace, be still,"
What of the past—'tis now beyond recall;
	The future, we with usefulness may fill.
Yet sometime, we shall find in regions real
Those dreams fulfilled we only term ideal.
			E. B. W.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

III

	Notwithstanding the intimacy that naturally
followed between the two cousins from their
association as nurse and patient, there was
still a reserve that it seemed impossible to break
and Miss Conway knew no more of her
cousin's love-affair at the end of a week from
the time of her illness, than she did when she
followed her on that day to the woods. The
young man had been extremely cautious, for
Miss Conway had kept a strict watch, and not
a line or message had come to the Castle, of
this she felt perfectly sure, and moreover
that her cousin was pining to know something
concerning his welfare though she never spoke
of him or in any way alluded to what had
occurred. The two girls sat together day
after day, and when Anna began to move
about the room, she took up her lace work
and busied herself with the needle, her cousin
meantime entertaining her with reading, or
telling her stories out of her own and her
mother's past life, while she too plied her
needle though carefully noting every motion
and glance of her beautiful cousin.
	The summer was fading into Autumn and
the woods were putting on their purple and
crimson robes and the sunsets were growing
more gorgeous in their brilliancy, and the
leaves in the avenue that lead up to the
house were like a heavy carpet upon the

[Column 2]

ground, ere Miss Hilliard was sufficiently re-
covered from the terrible shock she had sus-
tained to warrant her leaving the house.
	As she sat looking put with longing eyes,
and such wonderful eyes they were, with that
far-away look in them, that tells more than
words, she turned to her cousin and hesitat-
ingly, as though she dreaded the answer, "Have
no letters ever come for me during all these
long tedious weeks?" "No, my dear not any
did you expect any message?" was Jane's re-
ply, though she knew well enough that her
cousin was longing for some assurance, some
testimony of the fidelity of one for whom she
had risked so much. "Yes," replied the
young girl, "I did expect a message of some
sort and I can scarcely believe it would be
so long delayed, my father may have letters
for me Jane, do you know if he has had any?"
and her lips quivered as she spoke, it seemed
to be her last hope. "No I do not know but
he has said nothing to me of any, and when
he went away instructed me concerning his
own mail, to take charge of it etc."
	"My father seems to have perfect confidence
in you, Jane, and trusts you with all his
affairs?" "Yes, dear, even his most precious
jewel, his darling child Anna." "But he does
not love me, nor does any one else, I have
never known what love was, no one has ever
made a sacrifice for me until now. I begin to
feel that you have, O, I hope you have some
love for me, true friendship, that I may trust
you speak to you freely." Even this sudden
outburst was too much, for no sooner had she
spoken from the fulness of her heart than her
sobs and tears stifled her utterance, and she
swooned and would have fallen, but Jane
caught her in her arms and soothed her as one
would a little child; meantime the great bell
of the Castle rang furiously and Miss Conway
was called away leaving her cousin in charge
of her maid, who under the training of Miss
Conway was becoming quite an adept at
nursing.
	The summons was from Mr. Walton who
almost unceremoniously demanded entrance
to the Castle. The good old door keeper was
almost beside himself when this impetuous
young man insisted upon seeing Miss Hilliard,
but bethought himself sufficiently to send for
Miss Conway, and when she appeared upon
the scene, the lover's ardor cooled momentarily.
He saw in Miss Conway the daring young
horsewoman who had out-witted him before,
and he meekly inquired whether it were pos-
sible to see the young lady, the daughter of
Sir Edward Hilliard, as he had learned since
his arrival in town that the Baronet was
absent. "Miss Hilliard has seen no visitors as
yet, she is not recovered from the serious ill-
ness brought on by the nervous shock," she
could not finish the sentence for just then a
sob and a scream all in one breath broke in
upon them and turning in the direction from
which the sounds proceeded there came Lady
Anna down tho staircase, her loose raiment
falling about her slender figure, her arms out-
stretched, her hair falling about her shoulders
and neck like a shower of gold. With one
great bound her lover rushed forward, but
Miss Jane intercepted him and in a moment
as it were she was in her own room again and
her brave cousin sought to allay her excite-
ment, telling her she would bring her what-
ever message Mr. Walton might leave for
her. While Miss Conway was absent from


[Column 1]

the room the young man had time to collect
his thoughts and commune with himself and
he felt as though he had spoiled all by his
untimely coming.
	When Miss Conway returned she sought to
ascertain what his coming meant, and to per-
suade him to leave at once and wait until he
could come openly and honorably when Sir
Edward was at home. Miss Conway reasoned
with Mr. Walton earnestly and was firm in
her refusal not to allow any interview until
the father should be cognizant of the acquaint-
ance between Lady Anna and this masterful
young man who seemed to have such determi-
nation that Miss Conway strong as she was in
character, seemed almost powerless to defend
the position she had taken. She succeeded
however and Mr. Walton went with a heavy
heart down the avenue of linden trees to the
"lodge," where his horse was in waiting.
Slipping a gold coin into the hands of the
lodge keeper he mounted his horse and rode
away, not even casting a glance backward lest
his courage should fail him.
	"She has baffled me twice" he muttered to
himself as he rode onward, "the third time I
shall win, I am sure of it," and he put spurs
to his horse and dashed on to the mainroad
like wildfire.
	Miss Conway flew to her cousin as soon as
she assured herself the lover was out of sight
but instead of finding her in a dead faint as
she had expected she was standing at the
window in a fit of abstraction as it were and
scarcely noticed her cousin's entrance. "My
dear Anna," Jane said as she drew near to her
and putting her arm around the fair form now
still more delicate than ever, "I am very sorry
for you, I know how much you wanted to see
this defiant young man, but it must not be in
my uncle's absence."
	Lady Anna made no reply, and Jane con-
tinued, "there must be a reason why Mr. Wal-
ton does not have permission to see you, and
if he loves you truly why does he not ask
the consent of your father to pay his addresses
in a proper manner?"
	"Go ask the wind that whispers in the tall
pines, or the singing brook that runs on forever,
do they know why?" "My dear cousin this
is not reason, if you love this young man you
know why, or if not that, you must know,
why the secret is kept from your father, who
ought to be the first person to know, O, Anna
dear, I fear you do not know the danger you
incur in carying on this clandestine intercourse;
let me warn you to beware of one, who does
not seek you openly!"
	Lady Anna turned upon her cousin now
with flushed cheeks and eyes wild with excite-
ment, "do you doubt his honor cousin Jane?
He is everything that is noble, he comes of a
family as old as our own, and as grand in
every particular, with far more money, and
his mother is in the best society, has been at
Court and is royally aristocratic."
	"I grant all that cousin mine if you will, but
that does not weigh a feather against what I
said to you; he must come to the Castle honor-
ably, openly, or not at all. I will not be a
party to any scheme or plot, I will maintain
the honor of the house in your father's absence,
and you are only a child, not yet eighteen I
cannot see how any man dare speak to you of
love and plan secret interviews; it must not be,"
and the lady drew herself up to her full height
and gave her gentle cousin a most authorita-
tive look as she uttered the last words.
	Poor Anna overcome with grief and emo-
tion too deep for any other expression except
in sobs and moans, dare not even ask her
cousin if any tender message had been left for
her, and only wept until her whole frame
shook, and the Dr. had to be summoned that
night to quiet her ere she could sleep.
	The morning found her better and she re-

[Column 2]

solved to enquire whether Mr. Walton had left
any loving token or assurance of his love and
fidelity, but her heart failed her when she
heard the maid announce to her cousin that
Sir Edward had arrived during the night, and
wished her to come down to breakfast with
him.
	She lay thinking over her beautiful past
while her cousin was down stairs, somehow
she had the utmost confidence in Jane that
she would not betray her secret, she felt sure
that she had not even told the Dr. and she
was too unsophistacated to be suspicious. She
did not know what the outcome was to be,
but she felt to leave it all to cousin Jane and
fate. She ate her dainty breakfast, and
sipped her tea as if she had not a sorrow in
the world, so calm are we all at times just before
a storm bursts forth in all its fury. In fact
Miss Hilliard grew quite confident as she
thought over what had happened the day be-
fore and she said to herself, "Maitland loves
me and his mother cannot control his affec-
tion or his conscience." She felt compara-
tively reconciled as she mused alone, the sun
was shining brightly and the air was full of
that rich sweetness that comes with the golden
Autumn. She looked from her window to the
Eastern hills and she breathed a fervent prayer
to God though she knew not how to frame it
in words, that her life might be like the sun-
light to him she loved so ardently that no
sacrifice seemed too great for her to make so
strong so absorbing is woman's love, even
when she knows it not;—innocent as a child
was this fair young girl, it was her first trial,
her first sorrow, and it had come upon her so
unexpectedly. Her beauty, her artlessness,
her simplicity had completely captured young
Walton when he first saw her; and in their
lonely rambles in the fields he had told her
that to be true to him, she must not reveal
even their acquaintance because his mother
had decided long ago, that he should marry 
another, and besides "your father hates my
mother and all our race," and Anna trusting
him so utterly never inquired further; no
thought of evil, or harm, no suggestion of
impropriety crossed her mind, she had been
left so much to herself and her own thoughts
and so pure was she in every attribute of her
nature, that she could not understand the
danger that threatened her, nor did she know
that even now a volcano was about to burst
forth in her very presence that might consume
all her hopes of happiness, and turn that day
into blackest night.
	"Do you know Jane," said the Baronet to
his niece when they were seated at the break-
fast table, "that this house is quite a different
place since you came, I wish you could initi-
ate Anna into the air and manner of house-
hold management that you seem to possess,
you are my mother over again in every re-
spect, she looked just as you do, she had the
same intuition, knew everything beforehand;
by the bye Jane how is Anna has she re-
covered, she never would come down fo break-
fast, never!" "Uncle Edward I am very
much concerned about Anna she has some-
thing on her mind and is very excitable."
"I do not see why, she never has had any
care nor any responsibility, she has been
left to do as she pleased, in fact I have been
too much occupied with other things to know
much about her, and bless me she's only a
mere child, not old enough to be reasoned
with, if her mother had lived it would have
been different, I don't know anything about
women, why should I? Its years since I had
any association with any one of them except
to meet them casually. To be sure I have
met them abroad, I don't go into society,
there's only your Aunt Matilda and her
daughters and my Aunt Judith and cousins
Hannah and Susannah, and one or two others,
chance acquaint ances, I wouldn't want Anna
to pattern after any of them, and now I
really do think I would like you to stay here
and take charge of Anna and the house and
of your old uncle if you think you can.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PERSONALS.

	The Say Diego Union, and Santa Paula
Chronicle, are using an ink made of crude
petroleum and find it very satisfactory.
	The New York Journalist gave more than a
column to news of the P. C. W. P. A. re-
cently.
	Mrs. M. O. Stanton of the P. C. W. P. A.,
has the honor of being the first lady to lecture
before the Faculty and students of the Toland
College, San Francisco; she having lately de-
livered three lectures there on "Phreno-
Physiognomy." An invitation has also been
received by the same gifted lady to give a
course at Jepherson College, Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Kate Douglas Wiggin of the P. C. W.
P. A., who is spending her vacation in a Maine
farmhouse, has completed a new work for girls
entitled "Polly Oliver's Problem, which may
be called the sequel of "A Summer in a
Canyon," and which like the latter has its
scene laid in California.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Ft. Scott (Kansas) E. S. A. will
present the Kansas Historical Pageant in that
city about the middle of October.
	The Trades and Labor Council of the
Dominion of Canada, at its meeting in Quebec
on Sept. 3, passed a resolution asking for the
appointment of women as factory inspectors.
	There are 108 ladies now serving as Poor
Law Guardians in England and Scotland,
and the number of women elected to this
position increases every year.
	Mrs. Julia Fillmore Harris, sister of Presi-
dent Fillmore, who lately died in San
Francisco at the age of seventy-nine; was a
woman of unusual ability. She fulfilled her
duties at the White House during her
brother's administration with courtesy and
kindness, and it is said that the president often
applied to her for advice on public questions.
She believed in suffrage for women, and was
an active worker with her pen in that cause.
	The American Social Science Association,
at its meeting last week in Saratoga, N. Y.,
elected two women among its vice presidents
for the coming year, Dr. Grace Peckham of
New York, and Mrs. John E. Dodge, of
Boston. Among the papers read was one by
Dr. Frances Emily White, of the Women's
Medical College of Philadelphia, on "Spiritual-
ism and Hypnotism," arguing that these
phenomena could generally be accounted for
by purely physical causes.


The eye of the master will do more work
than both of his hands; not to oversee work-
men is to leave your purse open.—Franklin.
	It is impossible that an ill-natured man can
have a public spirit; for how should he love
ten thousand men who never loved one?—
Pope.
	True patriotism and national recognition
will never sully the fair name or honorable
character of any Christian woman. Women
would attend the polls with the same impunity
they do the rallies and national celebration.—
Western Rural.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	MEMORY'S GUIDANCE.

Over the moonlight, misty fields,
	In freedom I have roamed tonight,
Review'd at will old by-gone scenes,
	Time carried away in its flight.
Night had hushed the shadowy earth,
	Soft fleecy clouds curtained the sky,
Birds to their nests had all gone forth,
	And the winds breathed scarcely a sigh.
With mem'rys aid I climbed the wall,
	The massive wall of gather'd years;
O'er leaped barriers at her call,
	And chasms, bridged with sighs and tears.
I traveled back to love's young dream,
	And saunter'd 'neath its witching spell,
Rehearsing o'er life's sweetest theme,
	Tongue hath not the power to tell.
I quenched my thirst with glad delight,
	With water from a bubbling spring,
Gather'd violets fresh and bright,
	That thickly clustered round its brim,
Sang o'er the sweet old songs of youth,
	Blushing to hear my lover's praise,
And rambled with him, nothing loth, 
	With all the zest of love's young days,
Beside a streamlet flowing near,
	Soft rippling o'er its pebbly bed,
We planned in hope the coming year,
	The gladsome year when we would wed.
Mem'ry like some returning dove,
	Wakens to life these scenes long past,
With joy akin to that above,
	We hail her guidance to the last.

			L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kan


[Column 1]

A SISTER'S SACRIFICE.

M. A. Y. GREENHALGH-

	I was for many years connected with various
societies in the city of London, England.
These societies were organized for the protec-
tion, and assistance of young women, strangers
who had left their homes in the country to
seek employment in the great metropolis. To
what terrible temptations, and privations,
many of these girls were subjected, and to what
straits some of them were reduced, no tongue
can tell, or pen describe. Ladies and gentle-
men who spent much of their time and means,
in the good work of providing respectable
homes for them at a cost low enough to be
paid out of the small wages many were able
to earn, did a noble work, but their utmost
efforts could reach but a comparative few of
the vast numbers who flocked to the city, every
year. Yet among those few these Samaritans
often saw or heard of extraordinary, and
touching incidents of unselfish suffering and
endurance.
	Referring to my journal of the year 1879 I
find recorded the death of a young woman,
whose life had been wrecked, and shortened,
through her devotions to an unscrupulous, and
worthless brother.
	I had taken a strong interest in her and her 
room-mate, for they were both honest, virtuous,
and industrous girls, who had suffered many
privations patiently. One day I received a
note from one of them stating that her com-
panion was ill, she feared dying, and begging
me to visit them as soon as passible.
	I at once did so, taking with me a good
physician. As soon as the medical man saw
her, he whispered to me "too late." She died
that evening, calmly, peacefully as a child
falls to sleep from sheer weariness. We laid
her away tenderly for we knew nothing of
her family; if there were any left they did not
trouble about her. I took her companion
home with me for a few days so that she might
rest and recuperate, after the care and fatuige
she had experienced while nursing her sick

[Column 2]

friend; and from her I heard the sad story I
am about to relate.
	The name of the dead girl was Ellen Morris,
she had come from a sea-side village in
Suffolk, three years prior to her death; she
was then a pale, thin girl of 18 summer's
growth, upon whose well turned cheeks
lingered some sparkles of light, and freshness
of her country home. She would have been
more than pretty, had not some untimely sor-
row checked her beauty in the bud. Perhaps
it was sudden poverty, or loss of parents, per-
haps both combined; still evidence remained
to show how bright those deep black eyes
would be did happiness shine in them, how
radiantly lustrous that finely chiseled counte-
nance if lit up with gaiety and joy.
	She was clad in rusty mourning, and her
stock of clothing was of the scantiest.
	"This poor girl and I" said Mary, "through
disappointed effort became associated in life,
and friendship."
	"The first time I saw how wonderfully joy
could transfigure her pensive features, was one
morning when she met me with the glad tid-
ings that she had found work for both of us
in the city, and poor as the price was, I caught
at the offer for I was reduced to my last
sovereign, and Ellen, poor child, to her last
sixpence. The work was necktie making, per-
haps the worst paying employment we could
have found."
	"We at once rented a small room, in a
decent house near the factory, and after two or
three weeks practise we could earn, by working
early and late, about 18 shillings per week be-
tween us; this sufficed for our actual wants,
and by and by after a long and trying interval
the pressure upon the springs of industry
were loosened, and Ellen and I, were offered
more work than we could do, at advanced
prices; and but for some secret drain upon her
purse, Ellen's savings would have exceeded
mine, for she was a much quicker hand at the 
work we were supplied with than I was."
	"Yet she was always short of coin, and she
had surrounded herself with such an atmos-
phere of reserve that I found it impossible
to question her upon the evidently painful
topic."
	Several times I had seen her, and always
when it was dark, in hurried conversation
with a showy but shabbily dressed young man,
whose features I had never been near enough
to get a distinct view of. After these inter-
views Ellen was always excited and distressed,
so I concluded that the stranger was in some
way connected with the absorption of her earn-
ings and the growing melancholy which op-
pressed her naturally buoyant spirits. Once I
asked her, had she ever had a lover?" "I have
loved and been beloved, by one long since
dead, had he lived I should not have been
here," was her reply."
	"Have you no relations, I ventured to ask,
fearful as I always was, of giving her pain,
by striking upon some hidden chord of
anguish?" "Yes," she said, "one, a brother,"
adding as she left the room, "he is a sailor."
	"The following year was a prosperous one,
trade was good, and I obtained an excellent
situation in Bond Street. Ellen might have
gone with me, but she preferred taking an en-
gagement in the City where she could have
piece work, and be able to earn more money,
by working more hours than at the West
End. She would take home so much that she
could only get through it by sitting up three
parts of the night. She was killing herself, that
was evident, in spite of the remonstrance of
her employer and myself, she refused to mod-
erate her suicidal toil.
	"I have never seen a cleverer, or more taste-
ful hand than Ellen and for that reason she
could command the highest remuneration her
employers could afford to give; and with her

[Column 3]

employers most profitable patrons she had be-
come a great favorite; they would be waited
on by no one else, and thought no cap or
bonnet elegant that had not passed through
her transforming fingers. To her employers,
and myself, this craving for money in one so
young was perfectly astounding, and inexplic-
able, still we could do nothing but remonstrate
with the insatiate worker. Mrs. Wilson, her
employer, and myself were one evening debat-
ing upon what course to pursue toward this
girl whom we both loved, when she entered
the room, with a determined look and air.
At sight of me she appeared surprised and
somewhat confused, though her greeting was
kind and cordial. Poor, wan, haggard girl,
what madness can make her thus sacrifice
herself, was my thought as I held her thin
wasted hand in mine, and looked into her eyes
now preternaturally bright with the consum-
ing fire of her life blood."
	She comprehended that silent questioning
and in reply said in a low, sad voice, "There
is a cause Mary, I cannot just yet slacken my
exertions and it would be useless even for you
to urge it.
	"Then turning to Mrs. Wilson, asked, "is
it agreed that I undertake the whole of the
order I received on Saturday from Mrs.
Laird." "You could not possibly accomplish
it," replied Mrs. Wilson, "this is Monday, and
on Friday every article must be delivered as
you know." "I can, and will do it, unless you
give it to some one else, and if you do, I shall
at once transfer my services to another house."
The words ingratitude and insolence were on
my tongue and would have been spoken but
for Ellen's deprecating look and exclamation.
"There is a cause, I tell you Mary, and you
shall know afterward, why I want a particular
sum by Friday evening, I must have the money
by that time at the latest."
	It would, I saw, be time thrown away to try
to dissuade her from her purpose, and Mrs.
Wilson yielded, and gave her the work. On
Friday when her self imposed task was com-
pleted and she held in her hand the money, her
strong will gave away, and she fainted, when
restored to consciousness, she went into violent
hysterics.
	I was at once sent for, and when I arrived
my unhappy friend seized my arm, and pulling
my head close down to hers gasped out, "The
money Mary, the money, take it to 24 Sun
Street Clerkenwell, do not delay a moment,
my brother is there waiting for it, he is un-
worthy, but he is my brother, let him have
it."
	"I delivered it safely to that dissolute,
thoughtless man, whom the delay of another
day would have consigned to a prison, and
who had systematically deprived his sister of
her hard earned wages.
	He sailed for America the next day neither
knowing, or caring that the money he had re-
ceived was the price of his sister's life. It was
the last she ever earned, and she left herself
without a sixpence, to live upon, and she was
laid to rest by strange hands."
	"You saw," said Mary to me, "how peace-
fully she passed away, within a month after his
departure, and surely such a sacrifice should
be a passport to that country, where selfishness
and injustice are unknown."
	Such a life as Ellen's adds another testi-
mony to demonstrate that among the poor and
lowly of the earth more of the spirit of the
Redeemer, and the eternal Father is found,
than among the wealthy, and those the world
calls great. Poverty and suffering draw us
closer together, soften and purify the heart,
create sympathy toward those who are fellow
sufferers in poverty and distress. While wealth
and prosperity often cause us to forget that
the same towns hold the poor and the afflicted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delievered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1891.


CONFERENCE NORICE.

	The Sixty-second Semi-Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
will commence at ten o’clock on Sunday morning, 
October 4th, 1891, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	A cordial invitation is extended to all the
officers and members of the Church to be present
at the meetings. 
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEORGE Q. CANNON,
	JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	First Presidency.


NOTICES OF MEETINGS.

	A meeting of the officers of the Primary Asso-
ciation from the several Stakes of Zion will be
held at the residence of Elder Charles Felt, 155
N. Main St. this City at 7:30 Sunday evening
October 4th; a full and prompt attendance is de-
sired by the President Louie Felt.
	The General Conference of the Primary Asso-
ciation will be held in the Assembly Hall in this
City on Monday October 5, commencing immedi-
ately after the close of the afternoon session of
the Conference. Presidents of Stake Associa-
tions and of branches, and all officers and mem-
bers of the Primary who can, should be in at-
tendance of hear the instructions. Sister Aurelia
S. Rogers of Farmington is expected to deliver
an address on Primary organization, its origin
and what it has accomplished.
	The General semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
in this City October 7, commencing at 10 a. m. 
Officers and members of the organization from all
the several Stakes of Zion are most cordially in-
vited to attend the morning session as there will
be but the one meeting, the Y. L. M. I. A. hold
ing their Conference the same day.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.
	The First General Conference of the Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association will be
held in the Assembly Hall in this City, October 7,
meetings commencing at 2 o'clock p. m. and 7:30,
in the evening. It is desirable that there be rep-
resenttatives present from all the Stakes of Zion
and a general invitation is hereby cordially ex-
tended to the young people and to all interested
in the work of the Association.
	ELMINA S. TAYLOR, President.
	ANNIE M. CANNON, Ass't. Sec


TER. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Annual Territorial Convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association for the election of
officers and other purposes will convene in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this City on
Saturday October 3. Meetings commencing a
10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. The morning meeting
will be an Executive session devoted to business
and it is earnestly desired that Presidents of the
Auxiliary Associations in the several counties at-
tend or send representatives. In the afternoon
session it is expected to present an interesting,
miscellaneous programme. A general invitation
is extended to all friends of the cause.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, President.
	ADA CROXALL, Secretary.


CONFERENCE GRAND CONCERT.

	MONDAY EVENING OCTOBER 5, 1891
	IN THE
	TABERNACLE SALT LAKE CITY.
For benefit of the Deseret Sunday School Uunion.

	700 Voices—40 Instruments—11 Soloists. The
whole under the direction of E. Stephens. Ad-
mission, 50 cts. Children under 12, half-price.
Doors open at 7 o’clock; Concert begins at 8.
	Programme: Invocation. Grand Chorus, “Let
the Hills Resound" Tabernacle Choir (350
voices) and Great Organ. Male Quartette, “O
World so Wondrous Fair,” Boshard and Pyne
Brothers, (Provo.) Song, “Love's Sorrow,” Mrs.
Bessie Dean Allison. Instrumental Selection,
Ladies’ Mandolin and Guitar Club, (40 Instru-
ments, Miss Ella Olsen, Conductor.) Duet,
“Flow Gentle Deva,” Tout Brothers, (Ogden.)
Grand Double Chorus, “Anvil Chorus,” Juvenile
and Tabernacle Choirs. (At this number the
Juvenile Choir will take the centre of the large
platform, the choir taking each side, the whole
force uniting in singing the second stanza, with
banners waving.) Duet, “The Sailor Sighs,”
Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas and G. D. Pyper.
Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes. Duet, Boshard
Brothers, (Provo.) Scotch Ballad, “Mary of
Argyle,” R. C. Easton. A good old time Song,
George Goddard, (76 years of age). Chorus by
everybody. Grand March, “Harlech.” (Original
words by Geo. A. Meears,) Combined Choirs
(700 voices) and Great Organ. Benediction.
	E. Stephens, Conductor. J. J. Daynes, Ac-
companist.


[Column 1]
	THE IRRIGATION CONGRESS.
	The Irrigation Congress held in Salt Lake City
September 15th, 16th, and 17th, afforded an op-
portunity for practical information on the subject,
to men from all parts of the country, who are
specially interested in redeeming desert lands for
the public good. The remarks of President Wil-
ford Woodruff who was invited to speak in the
afternoon of Wednesday the 16th, furnish such
valuable suggestions and give such historical
data of the settlement of these valleys, the ar-
rival of the pioneers, the building of the ‘‘Old
fort,’’ and the means used to fertilize the land, and
are so clearly set forth, concise and to the point
that they are well worth a place in every journal
of the country.
	President Woodruff and President Cannon
were introduced to the congress by the Chair-
man, Hon. Wm. M. Stewart, of Nevada.
PRESIDNT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	“Gentlemen of the Irrigation Congress: I feel
thankful that I have lived in the flesh long enough
in this Territory to behold the faces of such a

[Column 2]
congregation of gentlemen as I see here today.
It is not my purpose to occupy your time or at-
tention in arguing or talking, or conversing par-
ticularly upon the subjects or at least those prin-
ciples for which you have gathered together; but
what I will say will be a few words concerning
our arrival here, and upon the principle of irriga-
tion. Fifty-one years ago the 24th of last July I
entered this valley with 143 emigrants, or in other
words pioneers. We were led by President
Young. This country that we arrived upon was
called the Great American desert, and certainly
as far as we could see it did not deviate from that
in the least. We found a barren desert here.
There was no mark of the Anglo-Saxon race, no
mark of the white man—everything was barren,
dry and desert.
	We pitched our camp a little distance to the
southeast from here about 11 o’clock in the day.
We had a desire to try the soil to know what it
could produce. Of course all this company—
nearly the whole of us—were born and raised in
the New England States, Vermont, Maine, Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut—had no experience in irri-
gation. We pitched our camp, put some teams
on to our ploughs (we brought our ploughs with
us), and undertook to plough the earth, but we
found neither wood nor iron was strong enough
to make furrows here in this soil. It was like
adamant. Of course we had to turn water on it.
We would have done anything. We wept and
turned out the City creek. We turned it over
our ground. When we came to put our teams
upon it, of course they sunk down to their bellies
in mud. We had to wait until this land dried
enough to hold our teams up. We put in our
crops and we stayed here one month. During
that time President Young laid out this city as
you see it today in the midst of sage brush, with
not a house within a hundred miles of us. We
built a fort around ten acres, three sides of adobe
walls eighteen feet high, and one side with logs
out of the canyon. We then returned home and
some two thousand men followed us. President
Cannon here was one of the company that came
in after we did.
	Now what I wish to say is this: You gentlemen
come here today; you see the city, you go through
the country. Here are a thousand miles, I might
say, through these mountains filled with cities,
towns, villages, gardens and orchards, and the
produce of the earth sustains the people. With-
out this water, this irrigation for which you have
met today, this country would be as barren as it
was in 1847, as we found it. This irrigation is
what you have met to engage in and give your
views upon- How I am satisfied it matters not.
Whatever you decide npon in this matter and
you unite upon, I am satisfied it will prove a
blessing, not only to Utah but to every State and
Territory where these arid lands abide, and who-
ever occupies these lands of course has got to
have the water to perform the work. We have
had to do the same. We have had to learn by
experience, and all that we have obtained in these
mountains has been by irrigation. There are
portions yet which have not been irrigated, and
as one gentleman said here, if you can make two
drops of water where there was one, or two
spears of grass where there was one, you are a
benefactor to mankind. I say God bless you in
in your efforts. (Applause.)
EXTRACTS FROM PRESIDENT CANNON'S ADDRESS.
	I look upon this as one of the most auspicious
days to the Territory of Utah since 1865—the
assembling of so many representative men from
the various States and Territories interested in
this great question of irrigation. I think myself
that whatever the conclusions you may arrive at,
they are sure to be of great benefit to all this
country. The interchange of views, the ming-
ling together and becoming familiar with each


other's ideas must inevitably, I think, result in
great good and I look for grand results to follow
the meeting of this Irrigation Congress in Utah.
	I think that Utah receives great honor in being
selected as the place for your deliberations.
	This question of irrigation is one, of course,
that we have been deeply interested in from the
beginning.  I think that whatever any other sec-
tion may claim in the way of priority in irrigation
we can claim that we are the first Anglo-Saxons
who ever had recourse to this method of raising 
	There is one point that I think of great im-
portance, and I think it worthy the consideration
of this body.  We have refrained, I was going to
say religiously, from forming large corporations
to take possession of the water--we have not
been taxed for our water in Utah, but settlements
have combined together and by their own labor
have taken the water out and have contributed by
their labor in forming dams and digging ditches
to obtain the necessary supply for their acreage.
I think this is a very important feature in this
territory. We have not had to pay for our water
by their own labor.
	Another feature of our system has been that we
have had small holdings.  When we settled this
city the lots were divided out; each lot was an 
acre and a quarter.  The lots were laid out in such 
a way that the front of one lot faced the side of
another. It was designed to be a city of villas
and to have plenty of room.  You see the breadth
of our streets and the amplitude of our lots; this
was the original design.  Then, next to our city a
tier of five acre lots was laid out, then a tier of
ten acre lots, then a tier of twenty acre lots.
There were no lots laid out of a larger extent than
twenty acres.  That there might be perfect fair-
ness, we cast lots for these.  The mechanics were
expected to want five acres; those who were in a 
better condition it was thought would require ten
acres, while the farmers twenty acres.
	We have kept from monopolizing the land and
been willing to have it disrupted in small hold-
ings, so that every man might have a foothold.  I
believe that I do not overstate the truth when I
say that in no part of these United States is there
a population containing so many people living on
their own lands and owning their own houses as in
Utah Territory.
	In 1853, or thereabouts there was scarcely
enough water in City creek to water the gardens
of Salt Lake City, and it was thought then that 
we had reached the utmost limit of our supply.
But it is a fact that our water has increased in
almost every stream throughout all these moun-
tains.
	I believe there is a kind Providence that
watches over man, that wherever man goes Pro-
vidence is there to said him in his efforts. Legis-
latures and others who do not particularly be-
lieve in diving interposition may attribute this to 
natural causes, that is, to the presence of rail-
roads.  I find some attributing the increase of
rain to the presence of railroads, the rails running
through--some to the increase of trees.  What-
ever the cause may be, it is undoubtedly the fact
that man himself, his presence, the very fact that
he is here and cultivates the ground, brings to
him and to those associated with him increased
blessings.  We have proved it in this country.
	Gentlemen, I trust that harmony will charac-
terize your proceedings. I have no doubt it will
I am profoundly thankful myself that such a con-
course of intelligent men from many States and
Territories is here. We want Utah to be known.
I believe that the gathering of this assemblage

[Column 2]
will lead to a better understanding of Utah and
her people.  No one in the world will yield with
greater gratitude and satisfaction than myself to
a more familiar acquaintance with Utah and her
people on the part of our neighbors.  We welcome
Nevada, California, Arizona, Kansas, Nebraska,
Colorado and all the states and all our neighbors.
if there is anything we can do to add to the satis-
faction of your visit we shall do it gladly.  I in-
voke the blessings of God upon you proceed-
ings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S STORE.

	The Woman’s Cooperative Mercantile Institu-
tion established last January, has recently been
moved to 63 E. First South Street, three doors
west of the theatre. The location is much more
desirable than the former one and the announce-
ment made to the general public ought to bring
custom to the establishment and success to the
enterprise. The ladies keep on hand an ex-
cellent quality of goods, particularly in the line of
millinery. Feathers, ribbons, laces and various
kinds of hat trimmings, in fact a full line of
millinery goods, direct from one of the leading
houses in Chicago. A bright young lady ex-
perienced in the business and formerly employed
in the fashionable store of Madame Button has
charge of this department of work. The dress-
making department is under the supervision of a
young woman who has had great experience in
this direction and is thoroughly competent to un-
dertake the most stylish and fashionable work.
The Children’s Book by Augusta Joyce Croche-
ron, is also for sale at this place.

	This store keeps on hand Ladies’ Equipoise
Waists and Jenness Miller’s Underwear. All
sorts of wax flower materials and Ladies Fancy
and Furnishing notions. Stamping and Pinking,
Buttons covered and Feathers cleaned etc. Burial
suits kept on hand or made to order if preferred.
	There is still some Capital Stock to dispose of
and ladies are invited to take shares and co-
operate for mutual benefit.
	If we would succeed in any home enterprise
we should give it our patronage and seek to
secure that of our friends and interest them in
the good cause. The Woman’s Cooperative
Store fills an important place and fits in admirably
with the organizations of women that are so per-
fect and complete with us as a people. It is an
undertaking that should meet with the hearty
support of women who are looking to home in-
terests,and home industries that will give suitable
employment to those who possess ingenuity and
skill of various kinds.


THE WOMAN’S CLUB.

	The Woman’s Club is the title of a new book
just recently issued by the United States Book
Company successors to John W. Lovell, New
York City. Olive Thorne Miller the well-known
and popular writer and whose famous books
about birds etc., have given her a world wide
reputation is the author of this new work, which
she has dedicated in the preface to the “Women
of America,” and has designated upon the title
page, “a practical guide and hand book.” The
book upon perusal commends itself to all in-
terested in club work or thorough organization,
and teaches many important things pertaining  to
practical and effective systematic work. The
contents are well arranged in chapters touching
upon various subjects in detail, and giving ideas
so clearly, that one not versed in these matters
would be able to comprehend readily how to or-
ganize and carry on the work of a club without
difficulty, and even to those familiar with practi-
cal organization of associations it gives many


valuable hints, and suggestions and helpful in- 
formation. We noticed particularly the opinion
in reference to a Board of Directors or an Ex-
ecutive Committee; and we most heartily endorse
the views she has expressed on this subject.
Miss Miller says, “They are in law the Trustees
of the Society, they are responsible for its deeds,
they should therefore have power commensurate
with the seriousness of their office.” Again the
selection of the members of this Board is more
important than that of any other of the officers.
They should never be very young nor should
they all be changed at once. Work would drag 
and blunders occur, if there were no old members
knowing the routine to initiate the fresh ones.
Speaking of the Ex. Com. the author says, “It is
not wise to have it composed of the club officers
alone for two reasons. First every active officer
in a club that has life has enough to do to fill her
own place well. Secondly, it may be necessary
sometimes to deal officially with an officer, and
therefore to have a power above all other officers.”
   The book contains much that is useful in the
matter of organizing, preparing a Constitution
by-laws etc., in fact the work is alto
gether the most complete of its kind,
showing the uses and needs and good results to
be obtained from women cooperating together in-
a way that reaches all and uplifts as well as har-
monizes those elements in society and in home
life that are otherwise left to individual cultiva-
tion or restraint and by mutual effort and sym-
pathy much greater benefit to all must necessarily
follow.
   The price of the book is $1,00 and it is well
worth the money.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

		   P. A. ST. JOHN’S.
	Primary Conference of the St. John’s Stake
convened at St. Johns, Sept. 5, 1891. There
were in attendance of the Stake Presidency
Pres. E. B. Coleman, Coun. Anna Mohr, and
Sec. Nancy L. Noble. After the opening exer-
cises the Central Board, Stake, and Local
Officers were unanimously sustained by the 
Conference. After several recitations by the
children, Pres. Coleman encouraged the chil-
dren to tell the truth, be kind, and honor
their parents. Exhorted the parents to look
to the training of their boys, as a great deal
of our future hope depends upon them. Coun.
Anna Mohr, Sister Clara Neilson, David
Rencher, Wm. Gibbons, and Pres. David K.
Udall made interesting remarks. Reports of
the various Primaries were read. Singing,
benediction by Sister July Bingham.
		NANCY L. NOBLE, P. A. Stake Sec.


BEAVER.
Editor Exponent:

   At the last quarterly Conference of this
Stake Apostle Lyman united the two wards
of Beaver City into one.  This necessitated a 
change in the organization which had been
divided. In a general meeting of the sisters
called for this purpose by Bishop Mumford, the
two branches of the R. S. of Beaver ward were 
consolidated and Sister Ruth Tyler sus-
tained as President with M. A. White and
Jane Bickley as Counselors, and Alice M. J. 
Tanner, Secretary.
   The last quarterly conference of the Relief
Society held Sep. 4th, was a very enjoyable
one although but few attended.
   There were present of the brethren C. D. 
White, Pres. of Beaver Stake, Geo. Mumford
Bishop of Beaver ward, and Patriarch Daniel
Tyler. 
   Our Stake President, Sister Lucinda Howd


<column 1>
﻿thought that on account of her age and in-
firmities it would be for the best interests of
the Society for her to resign which she accord-
ingly did. The sisters, however, could not
feel to give her up and after a spirited discus-
sion showing the long and faithful labors of
Sister Howd she was unanimously sustained
as President of the R. S. of Beaver Stake,
with full permission to throw the most of her
labors upon her Counselors which are not yet
chosen.
	The reports were encouraging showing that
notwithstanding the dull times, and general
slackness of the people, the sisters have kept
in line with their duties remarkably well,
caring for, and visiting the sick and poor.
	Much good instruction was given with re-
gard to our duties, raising our children, stor-
ing grain, sustaining the EXPONENT etc.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, benediction by Patriarch Daniel
Tyler. 
			Louisa Jones, Stake Sec.

		UTAH STAKE.
	The branches of the Relief Society of Utah
Stake held their quarterly conference, Aug.
28th, 1891. Pres. Mary John presiding with
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Pres. John said it should
not be tedious for us to listen to the reports,
for we should all wish to know where our
means are used. The sisters are doing a
good work; spoke of the subjects of charity
and love, etc., would like to hear from the
different Presidents, and would now give way
for them.
	The reports that were given in before the
intermission were favorable to those repre-
sented showing unity and faith and a desire
to do right and continue to be faithful to the
end. Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. The presidency of the Stake were
present with us.
	Counselor Marilla Daniels the first speaker
thought it a great privilege we had of meet-
ing together in these conferences of the Relief
Society which was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for the purpose of doing good. This
Society is on the increase, we perform our
labors quietly but we should always strive for
the spirit of' God to guide us with humility
and love. Let us visit the sick and encourage
and build them up, etc.
	Pres. Smoot had not met with us for some
time but was pleased to do so today; spoke on
the duties of the Relief Society, which was
to help the poor and needy, visit the sick and
those in distress, comfort those that mourn,
and bind up the broken-hearted; the means
collected by the Society for the poor was to be
used for that purpose and no other, and if any
branch of the Society has any surplus means
on hand, let them give to a branch where
there are poor that need help. The sisters
are not debared from helping in any industry
they please, or in doing good in any other way
but the means collected by the Relief Society
for the poor, should be used for that purpose
and for no other purpose whatever. Pres.
Smoot also spoke to the mothers in regard to
their children, advised them to know where
their sons and daughters were at night and be
careful who they associated with, etc. 
	Pres. John endorsed Pres. Smoot’s remarks,
made some additional remarks on the same
subjects. Pres. Cluff followed on the same
subject; eulogized the Society for the great
work they had done and the help they had 
been to the Priesthood in caring for the poor,
etc. Conference was then adjourned for three
months, after singing and prayer.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.
<column 2>
	BOX ELDER Y. L. M. I. A.
    The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of Box Elder Stake met in con-
ference at Brigham City, Sept. 9th, President
Minnie J. Snow presiding. A splendid pro-
gramme was provided by our energetic Presi-
dent who spares neither pains nor labor in her
efforts to make these meetings, as also every-
thing pertaining to the association, a success.
	As it is the very busiest time of the year,
the fruit season, some little anxiety was felt
as to whether the conference would be well at-
tended, but never did the young ladies turn out
better than on the present occasion; and the
animated faces and pleasant smiles told plainly
how well everybody felt repaid for coming.
All the wards with the exception of the three
fartherest away were represented. The exer-
cises were highly interesting, instructive and
ably rendered. There was an address on “Wo-
wan’s Influence,” by Mrs. E. Vance; a dis-
course on ‘‘What Franchise Would do for
Utah Women,” by Mrs. A. H. Snow; an essay
on “The Light of Home,” by Miss Janie
Hubbard, Willard. Then a correspondance
' How is Charity regarded by the Latter-day
Saints,” replied to by Miss M. F. Peters; and
next an address on “Obedience by some one
from Fair View; followed by an article entitled
“Observance of the Sabbath,” by Mrs. J. Jen-
sen, Mantua.
	In the afternoon “Manners and Customs of
American Women,” was treated on by Mrs.
Lillie Horsley; and “Customs and Characteris-
tics of European Women,” by Mrs. S. Valen-
tine; Mrs. Mary Nelson followed with an
article entitled “Woman’s Rank in Life;” and
“Are the Gifts of the Gospel still with the
Latter-day Saints,’’was treated on by Mrs.M.T.
Forsgreen. A Book of Mormon sketch “Life
of Alma and Mosiah’s sons,” was given by
Helen Thompson, Bear River City.
	A programme so varied and well responded
to intermingled with vocal and instrumental
music, among which were, “Love’s old sweet
song,” Maggie Widerborg; instrumental duet
“Golden Clouds,” by Misses Effie Ensign and
Emeline Peters; and the Sacred Quartets
“Jesus Lover of my Soul,” and “God in Mercy
hear my prayer,” effectively rendered by ladies
voices, as well as with short and timely re-
marks by different sisters, was proof against all
weariness although the day was very warm.
	At the close of the exercises, President
Clawson spoke very encouragingly about the
association, dwelt on the greatness of woman’s
work and gave some good and sound advice to
the young people. He was followed by Coun-
selor C. Kelley who expressed his gratification
at having been present at this conference of
the young ladies, which he thought was the
best he had ever attended and thought this was
indeed a mutual improvement association.
	Pres. Minnie Snow made the closing re-
marks, in her usual brisk and practical way,
offering suggestions here and there—and re-
minding the girls of Him from whom all
knowledge comes and exhorted them to make
Him the foundation of all their works. After
singing and benediction, the conference, alto-
gether the most enjoyable affair we have had 
for a long time, adjourned for three months.
		SOPHY VALENTINE
	SCOFIELD.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On Monday, August 10th, 1891, the Relief
Society of this place gave an Anniversary
Entertainment to all the people of the ward,
to commemorate the third year of its exist-
ence; it being just three years since we were
organized.
	The entertainment was under the immediate
supervision of the President and her Coun-
selors.
<column 3>
	There was an abundance of the good things
of the earth prepared to which all present did
ample justice.
	There was a good programme rendered con-
sisting of songs, speeches, (short ones of course)
recitations etc.,among other things the follow-
ing original poem written by John F. Ander-
son for the occasion was read and well received:
LINES OF HONOR TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF
SCOFIELD.
Relief Society—a name of honor too,
What is the mission you are sent to do;
Is thy name a byword, or thy mission here in vain?
Oh! that I could tell it—thy mission and thine aim.

To tell of thy great mission designed by heaven above,
Requires that inspiration that in the Prophet moved,
It moved him to take action, to organize you here,
That you might bless humanity, in this your humble
	sphere,

On every hand they’re sighing, to get relief to-day,
Every place you travel in they need relief some way;
It may not be for clothing, it may not be for food, 
But for a word of comfort to bless the weary head.

’Tis true that bread and clothing in times of need doth
	prove
A blessing far, far greater than any word of love;
But very few are lacking for those needful blessing here,
But many souls are sighing just for a word of cheer.

And oh! how kind words cheereth the heart that’s sinking 
	low,
When all seems dark and gloomy, through life’s troubles
	here below, 
When clad in heavenly feelings a sister enters then
Her loving words prove blessings, to hearts that are in pain.

This may all seem simple unto the simple mind,
But these are daily blessings, desired by human kind; 
For every soul that mourneth—many hearts do sigh
To get a word of comfort, from a sister passing by.

There are many souls now thirsting for blessing in this
	way,
Who’ve plenty food and clothing yet unhappy all the day
Because some words of anger or hatred found its way,
With all its meanness stinging, into the heart that once
	was gay.

This to me appears life's mission, aim, and end,
To bless poor erring mortals wherever they are found;
In brief it is the mission of our sisters gathered here
To cheer and bless each other, in their Society dear.

Now may there be reunion with our sisters in this place,
May their meeting and their doings be blest with great
	success,
And may their humble efforts to comfort one and all
Be crowned with heaven’s favor from the great unto the
	small.

May they sustain each other in their assemblies here
And envy, strife and hatred, be banished from their
	sphere;
May to their names be added these words—most noble,
	true,
Excuse the rhyme and writer, I bid you all adieu.

	After the rendering of the programme
dancing was indulged in until a late hour.
Every one expressed their appreciation of the
efforts of the Relief Society, and praised them
without stint for the excellent and ably con-
ducted party they gave.
	RACHEL HOOD, Sec.
Scofield, Emery Co. Utah, Sep. 1, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been advised by Pres. Teasdale
to send you a report of the organization of
our Relief Society, and also a Statistical and
Financial Report. We were organized by
Bishop William Derby Johnson Jr. on the
5th of January 1888, with six officers and
twenty-four members. This was in the early
days of this settlement, when we were living


in tents and tabernacles like Abraham Isaac
and Jacob of old. Now our Society has
increased in numbers and we have been
steadily growing in experience, and love of
our pleasing labors, that have brought to
us so much benefit and profit. We number
now, officers and members, seventy-seven, and
our average attendance is forty. We have
most excellent meetings twice a month. We
meet on the afternoon of every Fast Day, the
first Thursday in every month, for testimony,
and are generally favored with the presence
of some of our leading brethren, who have
always encouraged us in our duties and
labors of love. Then once a month we hold a
work meeting. These meetings are well at-
tended by our earnest faithful sisters and are
exceedingly interesting. Sister Lucy Johnson 
is our President, with Sister Anna Jorgensen
as her first, and Verona Whiting as her
second Counselor; Sister Ada A. Earl Secre-
tary and Mary J. Johnson Assistant Secretary
Emma Barker Treasurer. We have seventeen
Teachers. Our report dates from our
organization, in the future we shall send semi-
annual reports. With kindest regards your
Sister.
ADA A. EARL.

	Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Society of the Diaz Ward, of the
Mexican Mission, from Jan. 5th, 1888 to
Sep. 1st, 1891.
	To cash received from Jan. 5th, 1888, $55 20.
To property received from Jan. 5th,1888,
$51.10 By Cash and Property distributed to
the needy $42.05. By Cash for Sacramental
Set presented to the Ward $25.00 By Cash
donated to the Academy Building $16.00.
By Property donated to the Academy Build- .
ing $8.90. By Cash on hand $9.85. By
Property on hand $4.50. Total $106.30.
	77 members. 24 Meetings a year 86 in all,
to date, Testimony and work. 40 average
attendance.
	LUCY JOHNSON, Pres.
	ADA ARVILLA EARL, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LORD IS IT I?

	This question as we are all aware, was put
to our Lord by every one of His disciples
(Matt. 26, 39,) as He was partaking with them
of the last supper, when the sorrows that were
before him weighted heavily upon his spirit
and He was constrained to open his heart to
the beloved disciples and told them that He
was about to be betrayed by one of their num-
ber into the hands of his enemies, which called
forth the question "Lord is it I?" The
answer He gave to Judas soon proved to them
who it was that should do this thing, for Judas
immediately rose up and went out into the
darkness of the night to carry out into the
darkness of the night to carry out his wicked
purpose. "Having procured a band of men
and officers," he entered the garden of Geth-
semane whither Jesus had gone to commune
with His Father as was His custom when any
greater trial was before Him, but the treacherous
Judas had done his work and our Lord was
consequently arrested.
	But we are all familiar with these facts--
cannot we gather a lesson from the subject
that may be useful to ourselves? Let us
notice the conduct of the disciples and ask
ourselves, would we have acted the same under
the same circumstances? would we have asked
"Lord is it I?" would we not rather have
looked around that little group and tried to
think which would be the most likely to prove
guilty of such a deed? would we not have
screened ourselves and thought any one of the
others more likely to commit such a dastardly
act?  But not so with them, they thought only

[Column 2]
of themselves--"Lord is it I?" was the spon-
taneous  question from them all.
This question should be put to our hearts
every day or lives--Is is I, will forgot my
prayers this morning because I have remained
in my bed till the last moment and there spent
my time which ought to have been spent in
prayer and thanksgiving to our Heavenly
Father for His preserving care during the
past night?  "Is it I," who will this day mis-
represent the words of a fellow saint, and
thereby make an unfavorable impression about
him and so lower him in the estimation of his
friends? Is it I who will be so swallowed up
in the whirlpool of business or pleasure as to
be unable to meet my Father in the spirit of
communion and freedom which it is my privi-
lege to do, and which is absolutely necessary to
prosperity of soul?
	If we were sometimes to put these questions
to ourselves, and act according to the answers
we would receive from our own consciences, our
souls would nto be so barren for want of 
heavenly nourishment, we would be prepared
to meet the little troubles and annoyances of
life as necessary to our soul's well being, we
would not need to take the microscope to mag-
nify the words of others, which, if spoken at
all, may have been spoken thoughtlessly with
no evil intent, "we should watch unto prayer,"
that we may not in an unguarded moment do anything that would dishonor our Heavenly
Father, or grieve the Holy Spirit and cause
it to depart from us.  Would to God we had
more of the mind of Christ who was "meek and
lowly in heart," whose "meat and drink it was
to so the will of His Father in heaven. He
far as He could do them good.  Slander or
misrepresentation never escaped His sacred
lips but His teaching was--"Every idle word
that man shall speak, shall they give account
of in the day of Judgment."  Let us retrace
our steps to the table where the Lord sits with
His disciples.The words He uttered on that
occasion were full of consolation and hope to
the true believer. He said to His disciples--
"Verily I say unto you, I will no tdrink hence-
forth of this fruit of the vine until that day
when I drink it new with you in my Father's
Kingdom." Also in 27 sec. Doc and Cov., in,
a Revelation given through Joseph the Seer,
He said--"The hour cometh that I will drink
of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth,
not only with the Ancient Prophets," whom
He named, "but with all those whom my
Father hath given me out of the world." These
words of our Lord assure us, that if we con-
tinue faithful to the end, we shall surely sit
down with Him and partake of the new wine
of the Kingdom, and if we are looking for-
ward to the enjoyment of such a privilege
"what manner of persons ought we to be in all
holy conversation and godliness." Surely such
a state of blessedness with our Lord and all
those who have gone before, is worth striving for.
St. Paul says--"Eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neighter hath is entered the heart of man
the things which God hath prepared for them
that love Him."
	May the Holy Spirit help us to continue
faithful to the end, that we may be able to lay
humble claim to those blessing promised to
us in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	O glorious day! O blessed hope!
	My soul leaps forward at the thought;
	When in that happy, happy land,
	We'll take the Ancients by the hand;
	In love and union hail our friends;
	And death and sorrow have an end.
	MARY Y. CORBY.


The less a man who won't pay his debts
prays in church the better


THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.
	
	A senior nurse’s duties are somewhat
different from those of the juniors. To begin
with, she feels herself of some importance;
she has charge of linen closets; she sees to the
giving out of the food and gives out the 
medicines; when the doctor makes rounds, if
there is time she accompanies the head nurse;
she makes herself acquainted with the state of
the patients, and often has to be in charge of
the ward.
	To any one not initiated into the ways of
medical men, “giving out the medicines”
might mean a spoonful of something in a
little water.  A medicine list is an appalling
undertaking at first, there may be thirty names
on the list, some patients having as many as
five or six different medicines; in fact, it prac-
tically amounts to one-dose prescriptions. 
Different quantities are given—drops, drachms,
ounces, and so on.  With some practice and
with some one to take the medicines around
quickly a nurse can get through the list
accurately in a remarkably short time, say
fifteen or twenty minutes, but this is not often
done; we usually take our time. (A nurse
has learnt something of the properties and
doses of the medicines in her class.) 
	When a nurse has charge of a ward, or
becomes a head nurse, any notions she may
have had of her importance as a senior
disappear.  She feels herself responsible for
the condition of the ward, the care of the
patients, the instruction of the nurses,  in fact
for whatever is done or neglected.  The
doctors rely upon her for the faithful carry-
ing out of their orders and altogether she
needs a good deal of judgment and tact.
	After receiving the notes of the night nurse
and seeing that all the work is going on well,
the head nurse goes round, note book in hand,
and inquires into the state of each patient;
she questions them and listens to what they
have to say; she also makes her own obser-
vations.  In this way the nurse becomes
acquainted with her patients, while she reports
everything of note to the doctors.
	There is an etiquette odserved in the wards,
but it is not very oppressive; the nurses on
duty are subordinate to the doctors for the
time being, and everything goes on with order
and decorum.  This may sound stiff and
formal, but it is not so; it is only the fitness of
things.  We usually all work well together
and there is seldom any friction.
	The patients in Charity Hospital are the
very poor of the city; some of them are only
morally sick and needing a home; they
puzzle the doctors to make a diagnosis.  Most
of their sickness, as we nurses know, has been
brought on by over-work, poverty, drunken-
ness, laziness, and the like, but some are
worthy and deserving persons.
	Often when a person comes into the hospital
she enters a moral atmosphere which is new
to her.  She is cleaned and made fairly
comfortable; she has to drop many of her old
habits of speech, and be a decent member of
the hospital for the time being.  If she is not
too degraded she can see what is expected of
her at once.  We seldom have any trouble
with the patients and rarely hear an improper
word.  A nurse never need submit to in-
subordination; on her complaint the patient is
dismissed, but a very sick patient is seldom
beyond endurance.
	They are often very witty, and if we are in
the mood we can get lots of fun out of them.
They are also very religious.  They thank
God for everything; everything is the will of
God—their sickness, their troubles their
death; it never seems to occur to them that
they might have a will of their own.  In one


[Column 1]
way they have not much variety; they usually
object to soap and water.
	As a rule the nurses are as good to the
patients as they can be. Many of them 
remain in the hospital for a long time, and a
nurse has the opportunity of showing . them
small kindnesses, perhaps writing a letter or
giving them a garment or a few cents to pay
their car fare. In those tedious cases of
phthisis where the treatment is only palliative 
a nurse can be much to the patient. the 
patients in the emergency hospitals are some-
what different; they are mostly of the mechanic 
class and usually quite sick. That means 
business and getting them well, and they pass
on. They are not so poor they can even offer
us money, either by way of bribe or reward.
I heard of a nurse having the handsome sum
of ten dollars offered to her, and I came near 
having a pair of diamond ear-rings, only the
patient changed his mind and would not 
undergo the operation."
	The helpers spoken of in this sketch are 
women sentenced to the workhouse on 
Blackwell's Island for, varying from three
days to six months, and for such offences as
drunkenness, vagrancy, and fighting in the
streets. From the workhouse they are sent to 
do the scrubbing, laundry work, etc, in the 
institutions controlled by the Commissioners
of Charities and Correction, who are obliged
by law to use their labor. Most of them are
the sodden, frowsy creatures who huddle into 
the prison van after the laconic "ten days" of 
the poilce justice, but they are "all ages of
bad eggs," as one of them once said to me, 
and taken together they form a curious class.
They are most punctilious in always speaking
of each other as "ladies," and in the much-abused
word is somewhat amusing when applied to a
stout virago with a variegated eye.
	Drunkenness. their common vice. and the
cause of all their woe is delicately alluded to 
as a "weakness" or a "failing," and some of 
them seem rather proud of the number of
times they have been "sent up," while others 
regard it as the inevitable. Once I had to
pass a woman who was scrubbing in the
doorway at Charity, and as she moved her
pail I recognized her and said, "What, Mary, 
are you here again? I thought you weren't
coming back." Her face fell as she answered,
"Yis, m'm, I thought so too," and then she 
brightened up and said proudly, "But it was
the iligantest wake you ever see."
	Some of them again are decent and quiet
enough when not possessed by the devil of
drink, and it often happens that one of this
better class will stay on as a helper after her
sentence has expired, perhaps felling that she
is protected from herself while the river is
between her and her boon companions, but
sooner or later she is missing some day, she
has "gone over," and if she comes back it is 
in the prison boat.
	Here follows the journal of an ordinary 
day at Charity Hospital, by one of the head-
it nurses:
	"Time: 7.30 A.M.
	Sceue: Ward 3, Medical. Beds all unmade,
a few patients up - these have faces washed 
and hair combed - the majority in bed with
this duty still to be performed for them. A 
part of the floor at the front of the ward
scrubbed. Mary one of my prison helpers
is washing dishes at the table, and Bridget, 
the other, is taking soiled cloths from a large
can and sorting them for the wash.
	The atmosphere contains none too much 
oxygen; this can be explained by saying the
night-nurse is finishing her work in one of
the other wards, and the patients in her
absence have taken the precaution to close all
the windows for . fear of taking cold. After 
giving an order for the window to be let
down, I take up the night notes and read:

[Column 2]
	Murphy—Died at 3 A. M.
	Ryan—Temperature, 108 degrees; pulse 120; respiration,30; 
Antifebrine, grains iii., and other medicines given as 
ordered. Poultice applied last at 6 A. M.
	Patient passed a very restless night.
    And so on, through the other cases in the
ward. These notes are signed by the night 
nurse, who now comes in with the keys, look-
ing pretty well fagged. 
	"Good morning; I am sorry I have kept 
you waiting for the keys, but I have been so 
busy I could not get down sooner. Had a 
death in Ward 4, as well as the one here, 
and a patient in Ward 6 suffering from
delirium tremens, besides the ordinary work."
	I now go over to where my assisstants are
putting on their caps and aprons and getting 
together the things necessary for work. Miss 
W. and Miss A. are here but where is Miss
H? Miss W. answers:
	"She was called up last night to go on the 
maternity service. The superintendent missed
you, and asked me to tell you that another
nurse could not be spared to-day."
	Oh, dear, thirty-two patients in the ward, 
and five of them so helpless that they have to 
be fed and cared for like babies, two pneumonia
cases, and the usual number of phthisical and
rheumatic subjects. Well, well, grumbling
won't do the work, so we'll have to make the
best of it. 
	Each of my assistants armed with a pile of 
clean sheets and pillow-cases, proceeds to the
lower end of the ward and commences the
task of getting beds made, while I go to write
the list of clothes fro the laundry. Bridget 
counts the clothes while I stand by and take
down the number of each of the different
articles. This done, they are tied in large
bundles and sent to the wash-house. 
	Now the medicines are to be given out. I 
measure and prepare them, while a conva-
lescent patient carries them round to those in
bed. My list is a long one, and it takes fully
thirty-five minutes before they are all dis-
tributed, the bottles wiped off, and the 
medicine closet put in order. My next move
is to take a list of medicines which need to be 
renewed, and leave it ready for the doctor's 
signature. it is now twenty-five minutes past
eight, and Miss A. and Miss W. are making
as good progress as possible at their respective
rides; for it must be remembered that a nurse
has often to stop what she is doing to attend
to the wants of some particular patient, or
to carry out an order if the time is due.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mary Ostler Ockey, who departed
this life, Sept. 9th, 1891, of typhoid fever. She was born
Sept. 28th, 1849, in Bridgeford Dorset, England. She
was the daughter of John and Sarah Ostler, and the wife
of Charles B. Ockey and the mother of thirteen children,
ten of whom are living. Deceased was an active member
of Relief Society holding the office of teacher at the time
of her death.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister
and friend; therefore be it.
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the loss of a
true friend and co-laborer in the Second Ward Relief 
Society of Nephi
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief Society of
Nephi, tender our sympathy to the bereaved husband and
children who are deprived of the care and counsel of their
beloved mother.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be sent to the 
family, also published in the Ensign and WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and that the same be placed upon the records of 
this Society.
"Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that her race
       is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like hers
       is done;
'Till then we would yield with gladness, our treasure to
       Him to keep,


And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
        ones sleep.
					MARY PITCHFORTH,
					REBECCA UDALL,
									Committee.
					EDITH CLAYTON, Ass't. Sec.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
     Obstetrics and Nursing,
-----ON-----
Monday, October l9th, 1891,
	AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by Clara Bewick Colby.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
		weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.
		MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
       ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	       AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		   POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		 Three doors west of Theatre.
	R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	 SALT LAKE CITY.
	 The Leading Retail
		Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
	Special to the Ladies.
	    AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		       in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

