VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NOVEMBER 1, 1891.		NO. 8. 9


CONTENTS.

	The leaves Are Falling—Aunt Em. In Rural
England. Address by Aurelia S. Rogers. R.
S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Reports. W. S. A.
Salt Lake Co.—C. C. R. Wells. Pacific Coast
Woman's Press Association—M. Taylor. The
Training of a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.
Earnestness is Power. Obstetrics and Nursing.
Notes and News. Miscellaneous.
	Editorial:—The Blessings of To-day. Edi-
torial Notes. In Sacred Remembrance—C. D. P.
In Memory of Jane M. Walton.
	Poetry:— Life Worth Living— Western
Christian Advocate. Widowed—Lu Dalton.
Loving Words—The Woman's Journal. A Per-
fect Day—Ella Gilbert Ives.


LIFE WORTH LIVING.

Is life worth living? Yes, to him that lives:
	Whose soul hath caught the music of the spheres;
	Who o'er all earth-jars, heavenly music hears,
And to attune his life thereunto strives.
Is life worth living? Ay, to him that gives 
	His life to God through few or many years;
	Come talents one or ten; come faith or fears;
Come freedom's glorious strength or prison gyves.
God give thy sons to live love-leavened lives,
	To lift themselves to Thee by lifting others,
To know that charity the spirit shrives,
	That selfishness the fire from heaven smothers;
To know that he that lives is he who gives,
	Who counts the world his home, all men his brothers!
				Western Christian Advocate.


WIDOWED.

O Death, thou grim and ghastly shade
	With brow of blackest gloom,
Thou'st changed to haunted dark my day,
	To deep midnight my noon!
I lay upon this silent heart
	My dazed and throbbing head,
Believing not that we must part—
	Denying he is dead
Oh speak! thou dearest friend of mine,
	This awful silence break!
Shake off this dreadful sleep of thine!
	To life and love awake!
'Tis I, my love, low at thy side
I kneel to kiss thy hand;
	I find it clammy, cold and white;—
I cannot understand.

Go quickly! bring my children near,
	His tenderness to claim;
He never yet has failed to hear
	When they called father's name.

In vain—in vain—they call in vain.
	Nor sobs nor tears will move—
Is death so like cold, cold disdain?
	Does death extinguish love?

O, quiet hands and eyelids pale,
	O brow so white and chill,
O ears that heed not orphans' wail,
	O heart so cold and still,
O lips that answer not my kiss,
	Breathe not one kindly word,
Is death so cruel, hard as this
	By no entreaties stirred?

The giddy earth reels 'neath my feet,
	The skies grow black o'erhead;
And through the throbbing darkness beat
	The words My love is dead.


I, grasping blindly, blindly clasp
	My orphans to my breast,
Lest life slip through my failing grasp
	And leave them twice bereft.

God pity my poor little ones,
	And make my weakness strong;
My shrinking heart with pain is numb,
	And dread forebodings throng;
My faltering feet are loth to tread
	The hard and thorny way
Which seems through clouds and darkness spread
	Beyond my sight away.
			LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.

	The falling of the leaves has a tendency to
impress us with serious thoughts, to remind us
that all things decay, that life itself is full of
changes and we are ourselves only hastening
on to that season when "we shall fade as the
leaf," but notwithstanding all the significance
of the Autumn and the falling leaves, one who
revels in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season though the
woods do grow "brown and sere."
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries with
it too that speaks in language unmistakeable
to the susceptible soul of those things that
beautify as well as typify human life. Aside
from animal life there is nothing  more human
than the trees they speak in all languages,
they sing, they whisper, they dance, and play,
and flirt, and coquette, and array themselves
gaily, gorgeously at times as though conscious
of power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play as it
does, could it make such music if there were
no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt about?
And even when they have fallen, and lie like a
heavy carpet upon the ground, the savage
wind routs them about again hither and
thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys
that are past, and passing away from us. It
is good to be reminded of the sweetness we
only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness
mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into
our hearts and lives, and the more telling will
be the lesson it will teach. We all need re-
minding of the "sunny hours" that pass all too
quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast
but were always basking in light and sunshine
we should not even know it was the perfec-
tion of beauty what would we know of day-
break if there was no night, would we rejoice
as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor of
the gorgeous sun sets, were it not that day
is departing and night coming on. And if it
were always summer, we should not drink in
as we do the resplendent glories of the
Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are quite
beyond the art of the painter; the hills are
literally crowned with purple glory, shaded
with a mantle of beauty like "Joseph's coat of
many colors." We gaze and admire, and turn
and look again in wonder and amazement,
and we try to carry in our hearts and interpret
in our lives the language conveyed to our

[Column 2]

souls, by the beauties of the hills, the fields,
the trees, the woods, the trailing vines—and
we cannot grasp it all, but little by little we
are learning to interpret in our weak way, the
wondrous things that pass human wisdom and
understanding.
	Possibly there is no other season of the
year so rich in the lessons it teaches as the
fall—the death of the flowers, the falling of
the leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched by the
frosts of time, and pass away, that we too must
finally die, and yet these things teach us we
shall live again, for every flower and tree and
bulb and vine contains the germ of life with-
in that shall spring forth again in all its pris-
tive beauty according to its time and season.
And yet we know so little, and we pay little
heed to that which admonishes us of our weak-
ness, nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of the
year, no day, nor night, nor anything that
God has planned but contains lessons of beauty
of wisdom and of truth that would make us
nobler, better, more loving and tender if we
would study as we should the application it
bears to the human side of our lives upon the
earth. This is a beautiful world, and filling
our lives up with beautiful deeds, and shedding
around us the fragrance of loving words and
happy smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much of
sweetness mingled in the cup of life given
them to drink. Speak of the beautiful and
true, keep these before you, make these your
guides and talisman and the touch of enchant-
ment will be yours to gild the lives of your
friends and associates.
			AUNT EM.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

V

	Sir Edward Hilliard sitting in dressing
gown and slippers in his luxurious apartments
was a striking type of the English aristocrat of
the last century. It was a cold, raw November
day, he was now getting on famously, his
appetite was good and he slept well, thanks to
the good nursing, the Dr. said, and yet, one
familiar with his countenance would observe
that he was troubled. it was his mind more
than his body that hindered his entire recovery;
he was low-spirited, almost melancholy on this
dull leaden morning, as he sat facing the
fire.
	Miss Conway had occasionally reminded
Dr. Bland that her uncle was quite well
enough to be made acquainted with the secret
she had inadvertently entrusted to him, and
that morning after leaving the convalescen's
room the Dr. had replied to her questioning
"all in good time, leave that to me, don't
venture upon such dangerous ground again,
another such scene might be his death."
Miss Conway felt "better his death han his
daughter's dishonor;" but she checked herself
and replied, "Dr. Bland I will not remain in
this house, unless my uncle is soon informed of
the true condition of the matter, which weighs
so heavily on my mind."
	"In that case Miss Conway you would leave
this uuprotected girl without a single female
friend to advise her, is that your idea of right?
she is your cousin, you are of one family, you


[Column 1]
﻿confess you have not spoken freely to her,
love will do more than anger, her father may
drive her to take a step she will never cease
to regret; perchance you may be a savior, try
what love will do for this misguided cousin of
yours."
	Miss Conway burst into tears, the Dr. waited,
and when she found voice, she said, “I will
make another effort to dissuade her from
clinging to the remembrance of this fascination
she seems to have for Maitland Walton.
Who he is I know not except that Anna tells
me he is of good family, proud and wealthy,
and his mother is a queen in society.”
	"You did not tell me his name before, now I
can understand better why he comes unbidden,
thereby hangs a tale, a love affair in the days
past and gone, and it seems uncommonly
strange that young Walton should find his
way here, and fall in love with Lady Anna,
his mother cannot possibly know it, and now
my mission I find is indeed a hard one.”
	"Dear me," and the Doctor looked very
serious, “could it be Sir Edward mistrusted
who this intruder was, on that inauspicious
morning when he fell senseless to the floor.”
	Miss Conway bewildered almost by what
the Dr. had said, began to realize how
complicated the affair was growing to be, and
she scarcely knew whether she ought not to
fly from it all and seclude herself somewhere,
leaving fate to do its worst. In this state of
mind Dr. Bland left her; both were puzzled,
and wanted time to reflect in fact to be
alone; for when some weighty matter must be
adjusted, it should be looked at on all sides
and so thought Dr. Bland, as he rode slowly
homeward muttering all the way to himself, a
habit he had when much disturbed. Miss
Conway was sitting in the library after this
conversation pondering upon what had been
said, and dreading to go up to her uncle’s
room, when in flew her cousin in great haste,
her face in a glow of excitement her large
lustrous eyes beaming with delight, her silken
robe trailing gracefully and holding in her
dainty white hands a letter. “See cousin mine,
Mr. Walton has written me the sweetest letter
I have ever read, can you doubt him now?
He will soon be able to declare himself openly,
and asks me to tell you; he has some business
affairs of his own to arrange, and if by that
time his mother still refuses to allow him his
own choice, then he will brave her displeasure;”
the enthuastic girl could scaacely control her
voice she was so elated with her first love
letter and with the idea that she could now
silence all her cousin’s objections; she believed
as sincerely in her lover’s fidelity as though he
had made an honorable proposal.
	Cousin Jade stood aghast while the excited
girl reiterated the assertions of this ardent
young man, and when she paused to take
breath exclaimed, “And you believe all this,
and will go on trusting him without inform-
ing your father?”
	Lady Anna had not expected this, she
thought the letter which so delighted her would
satisfy even the punctilious cousin.
	Take the letter to your father dear Anna,
he will be able to judge of this young man’s
motives, men of his experience are far-sighted
in these things, and do not decide hastily, he
may know the family of this young man and
that is something, depend upon it in any case
he will give the best advice regarding the
interest of his own child!’’
	"My dear cousin I cannot, I am under the
most sacred promise not to reveal our friend-
ship;—you accidently learned of it through
some suspicion, and followed me"—here
Lady Anna paused and turned deathly pale,
her cousin feeling the conversation was likely
to result, in a scene, which might prove
disastrous to her own calculations, changed
the subject by saying, ‘‘I must go and attend

[Column 2]
to your father shall I tell him of the letter ”
“No, No, wait until he is well and by that
time, there will be a change in affairs and
Mr. Walton will speak out; I hope so at all
events for unless he does I may be away; by
the bye, my father mentioned the other day
that he should go abroad as soon as he had
recovered sufficiently, and take you and I with
him, be wants to spend the winter in Italy or
some warm climate how would you like that?”
	“I should like, it very much indeed, and I
believe it would be beneficial to your health
dear, and besides travel improves and develops
one’s mind wonderfully and I have always
had a desire to see the continent, and have
never yet had an opportunity of journeying
anywhere except in England.” Each of the
young girls had tried to divert the other's
attention from the subject heretofore under
discussion, and for a moment it really was in
part forgotten, by the thoughts of travel.
Those were not the days of fast trains and
steamers and a journey to France or Italy was
quite a serious matter.
	Further conversation was interrupted by the
maid who came to summon them both to the
Baronet’s room; they hastened with some
trepidation not knowing what the call was for,
and both of them fearing they knew not what.
Once inside Sir Edward burst forth complain-
ingly—about being left alone, on such a dis-
mal morning reproaching his daughter bitterly
for her lack of affection for “her poor old father,”
and declaring in the most vehement
language, that he would leave the house as
soon as he could get out, and she should be
left alone, adding “and I’ll see that you are
kept within proper bounds, there shall be no
gay young men coming here when I’m away,
your cousin shall take you in charge.” Lady
Anna was so shocked and bewildered that she
lost her self possession entirely and dropped
the letter she had been trying to conceal upon
the floor. “What’s that” almost screamed her
father, “a letter, let me have it! Jane that letter
hand it to me!” Anna was pale as ashes, she
sank down upon the nearest chair, while her-
cousin picked up the offensive little white-
winged messenger, and with all the composure
possible placed it in her uncle’s hands. “A
man’s hand and addressed to my child without
my consent, the scoundrel, how dare he,” and
his hands shook, "here Jane read this to me,
and mind you read it correctly, stay fetch me
my glass. I’ll read for myself—and adjusting
the glass he looked at the signature, it was
enough—it was his turn now, his face grew
livid with passion, his niece called far help,
and without a word he was carried to bed still
holding tight in his grasp the letter, turning
his face to the wall, he lay for hours without
speaking.
	Miss Conway waited with fear and tremb-
ling, and Anna sat sobbing and crying like a
child, where she had seated herself when she
dropped the letter that had caused all the
trouble—finally seeing no sign of any recogni-
tion on the part of this strong man stricken
down instantaneously—Jane left the room
followed closely by her cousin who was so
over-whelmed with emotion that she could not
restrain her anguish any longer, but clung to
her cousin, and, begged her to intercede with
her father for forgiveness. "I dare not speak
to him myself his temper is so violent, many
a time have I seen him in a towering passion
over trifles, you who are so brave and good he
might listen to, but not to me.” When he has
had time to think, and when he has read the
letter then I will try what can be done, mean-
time we must see Dr. Bland and inform him
of your father’s condition." Miss Conway did
not tell her cousin what she suspected, that
there was some special enmity between the two
families; the Hilliards and the Waltons, but she
was convinced of it now even more fully than

[Column 3]
when the Dr. had first aroused her suspicious
but she did not yet understand the situation,
and she hesitated to give her views even when
her cousin urged her to tell her what she
should do.
	The Dr. came and Miss Conway had an in-
terview with him before he went to her uncle’s
room; she told him all that had transpired—
“it is better so, it must have come sooner or
later, and as it has happened, he knows how
matters stand without being told, and his
pride will not suffer as much, I am heartily
glad, he will not use any harshness depend
upon it, make your mind easy on that score;
after I have seen him, I will speak to you
again,” and the Dr. lit his pipe and left
room.
	Left to herself Jane soliloquized something
after this fashion, “my uncle is reaping the
fruits of his own neglect, he has been more at-
tentive to his hounds and his horses, than to his
own daughter, and now he has cause to repent
his indifference and it may be for the best
after all, though we must all suffer for his folly,
and poor Anna most of all."
	The Dr. remained up stairs for hours, and
refreshments with plenty of wine were served
for them, in the Baronet’s apartments and
when Dr. Bland came into the drawing room
to speak to Miss Conway he seemed in high
spirits, and his good humor put the young wo-
man more at her ease, “have no fears,” he said
“the old Baronet’s pride has had a severe blow
he has been used to having everything his own
way so long, nobody to cross him, and to find
his own little girl has ignored his parental
authority altogether, why he seems to think
the whole household has been in a conspiracy
against him even you, Miss Conway—I stayed
with him until he got cooled off, and convinced
him how anxious you had been that he should
understand the peculiar nature of Miss Anna’s
attachment. Mind you it was not so much the
letter as the man; he is the son of his sworn
enemy, once his successful rival, and how can
a man like Sir Edward ever forget such an
injury, its in the blood, pride and resentment;
though he swore savagely at first and vowed
vengeance on the young scapegrace as he
called him.
	My cousin Anna seems wholly devoid of
this sort of pride, and yet she is an aristocrat
every inch of her,  it is plainly visible in
every movement,” “Your cousin is a woman
and has all the natural instincts and the
refinement of a true lady not so much from
education and training, as she inherits by birth
the gentle blood that tells through genera-
tions.” Dr. Bland and Miss Conway talked
seriously of this affair between the two young
people and the decision they arrived at was
that as soon as possible Sir Edward must
be induced to take his daughter to the conti-
nent, “and you” said the Dr. to the young wo-
man, “ought to accompany her, though my own
feelings 
would prompt me to keep, you here.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The Business Woman's Journal, for October,
contains fine portraits of John and Isabella
Hooker, with an account of their golden wed-
ding anniversary. Other original articles of
interest are "Women in Government Offices
at Washington," by Emily L. Sherwoed;
"Advice to Mothers," by Madame F DeHart,
M. D. "Women on the Wheel" by Mary
Barton Lamberton "Women and Women's
Clubs in California," by Emelie T. Y.
Parkhurst and Ella B. Smedley; "Popular
Ignorance of Fine Architectural Effects," by
Miss Minerva Parker. and "New England
Newspaper Women," by "Jean Kincaid."
The editor, Miss Mary F. Seymour, begins a
series of lessons in phonography in this
number.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVING WORDS.

Loving words will cost but little,
	Journeying up the hill of life;
But they make the weak and weary
	Stronger, braver for the strife.
Do you count them only trifles?
	What to earth are sun and rain?
Never was a kind word wasted;
	Never one was said in vain.
When the cares of life are many,
	And its burdens heavy grow
For the ones who walk beside you,
	If you love them tell them so.
What you count of little value
	Has an almost magic power;
And beneath that cheering sunshine
	Hearts will blossom like a flower.
So, as up life's hill we journey,
	Let us scatter all the way
Kindly words, to be as sunshine
	In the dark and cloudy day.
Grudge no loving word my brother,
	As along through life you go,
To the ones who journey with you;
	If you love them tell them so,
	The Woman's Journal.


A PERFECT DAY.

BY ELLA GILBERT IVES.

O beautiful! October's flower
	Of days!
For one consummate hour
	She stays,—
Fleet-footed loveliness!—
And with a swift caress,
Brief, boundless, holds me to her heart of fire,
And kindles high desire 
For the Ideal Beauty: nothing less
Will satisfy the heart that on her breast
Has felt the flame of a divine unrest. 
The passionate tumult of her being thrills
	My coarser clay;
And, as the tide refills
	The arid bay, 
This rich life-current all my being floods, 
And lifts me to the level of high moods.
O'er purpling hills she glides,
	Enchanting day!
Her misty robe half hides 
	And half reveals 
Her loveliness. A shadow steals
Across her mobile face.
She cannot, if she would, retrace
	Or longer stay
Her steps. In swift pursuit
I follow on, enamored of her mute
	Alluring ways.
She scatters gems and gold,—
This millionaire of days,— 
With royal largess, knowing that her hold 
	Of life is brief;
With Midas-touch, each beggar bush
	And suppliant vine 
She changes to a thing divine;
And over all a holy hush
Doth brood,—a joy akin to grief,
As now she nears the golden gate
That never backward swings.
One moment more, too late! too late?
Despairing love my spirit wings;
She turns, and mirrored in her face,
The light of other worlds I see;
The source of her enchanting grace
At last an unveiled mystery.
One moment, infinite! behold!
She passes through the gates of gold
That never backward turn.
	I cannot follow yet,
	The bound is set.
But, O defeated spirit! learn
That for ideal grace to yearn
	Is good;


The glory flashed from those blue eyes,
To lure thee to thy native skies,
Was something more than sweet surprise, —
	A new beautitude!
	The Woman’s Journal.


ADDRESS BY AURELIA S. ROGERS.

ON THE ORGANIZATION OF PRIMARIES.

	Having been called upon to give an address
I will try and do so, trusting that I may be
directed by the right spirit.
	The first Primary Association was organized
in Farmington, Davis Co., Utah on the 11th
of Aug. 1878,—with Aurelia S. Rogers,Presi-
dent; Louisa Haight and Helen M. Miller,
Counselors; Rhoda H. Richards Secretary; and
Clara A. Leonard, Treasurer. As the move
was a new one our Bishop, John W. Hess,
suggested that we visit the ward and get the
names of all the children between the ages of
five and fourteen years, which was accordingly
done; a meeting was then appointed which
was the commencement of Primaries. Soon
afterwards a Primary was organized in the
11th ward, Salt Lake City, with Louie Felt,
President.
	The aim and object of these meetings, is not
for me to speak upon today, but it is probably
well known that your humble servant was an
instrument in the hands of God in helping to
bring them about. Although I may have been
the originator of the idea of such a move, to
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith should be given
the credit of doing the most work. It was
Sister Eliza, who in company with Sister
Zina D. Young and others, traveled through
the Territory of Utah, and with the assistance
of the Bishop organized a Primary in nearly
every settlement. It was Sister Eliza who
compiled the Primary hymn book, also pre-
pared a book of questions and answers on the
Bible, two Primary Speakers, and a tune book 
for the songs that had been selected. And
may the name of Sister Eliza be remembered
with honor, by the children of the Latter-day
Saints. Up to this time there had been no
one appointed to preside over the whole. In
April 1880, while attending a Primary meet-
ing in the 12th ward. over which Sister Ellen
C. Clawson presided, Sister Eliza who was
present came to me and said that it was thought
best to have some one chosen to preside over
all the Primary Associations in the Territory;
and suggested that the person selected should
reside in Salt Lake City, as that was central
she asked me who I would propose to take
this position. I told her I could not tell on
so short a notice, but would reflect for a few
minutes. After doing so the name of Sister
Louie Felt came to my mind; as soon as I told 
Sister Eliza she said that was her choice, and
was also Sister Clawson’s choice; this satisfied
me that Sister Felt was the one to hold this
important office, and I have all confidence in
her and have a love for her, which love I
think is necessary for us to have toward those
who preside over us.
	Sister Felt commenced her labors in this
new calling in June of the same year,
with Matilda M. Barratt, and Clara C. Cannon,
as her Counselors; Lillie T. Freeze, Secretary;
and Minnie Felt, Treasurer. Later on through
the resignation of Sister Barratt, Lillie T.
Freeze was chosen first counselor, and May
Anderson, secretary.
	The next thing to be done was to appoint
Presidents over the Primaries in each Stake,
Sister Ellen Clawson, who has charge of the
Associations in Salt Lake Stake, was the first
one called to this position, which was in June
1880. Afterwards you and I my sisters, or
many of you were chosen to fill these offices,
and may we fill our appointments with honor

[Column 2]
be helps indeed and try to have our reports
ready in time so they can be handed in at the
general conferences. This completed the or-
ganization of the Primaries up to the present
time.
	But the question might be asked, Are these
Associations necessary? Are not the day, and
Sunday schools sufficient for educating and
instructing our children? I will endeavor to
explain that these schools are not enough, ac-
cording to my way of thinking, and that Pri-
mary Associations are quite necessary. By
way of illustration I will liken the organiza-
tions of this Church to a fruit tree, which
when fully developed has a root, body,
branches and fruit, the leaves might be com-
pared to the clothing of the tree. In order to
make my comparisons plain, we will commence
at the beginning, when this Church was first
organized with six members on the 6th day of
April 1830, (it is understood that no woman
had her name enrolled at that time), the
priesthood of God was restored to the earth,
and this might be likened unto man as the
root of the tree. As time rolled on the gospel
spread and the Church grew till it formed
quite a body, and finally the Saints settled in
the beautiful City of Nauvoo. Then, and not
until then, was a Relief Society organized, the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself stated that such
an organization was necessary, and even
blessed and set apart certain sisters to preside
over the same. Our attention must now be
drawn to the fact that no man was a member
of said society or held any office therein.
	This organization then can be likened unto
woman as the body of the tree. We will now
skip over a lapse of years till the Saints have
arrived in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake,
have begun to make themselves comfortable
homes,and also raise up branches of the Church
in Europe and in other parts of the world.
About this time it was thought best by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, to have what was then
called a Retrenchment Association, especially
for young women. This was on account of the
fashion and style that prevailed in our midst
at the time, this move afterward led to an
organization of the Young Men, which was
the starting point of the Mutual Improvement
Associations. This we think will compare
with the branches of the tree. So far, we
have the tree in its perfect state, with the ex-
ception of the fruit, and this we all know is
the last to make its appearance, and even then
it takes some time to mature. In the summer
of 1878 Primary Associations were first thought
of and brought into existence, and through
the unceasing efforts of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith and others have been organized through-
out the Territory. If then Primaries are
typical of the fruit, we have the tree in all its
beauty.
	Before closing I will call attention to the
fact that all the Associations of the Saints are
centered in the Sunday School.
	For while the children assemble to be taught
there are young men and young women, who
assist in this work, also members of the Relief
Society, and even men holding the priesthood
who officiate as teachers and Superintendents
in this grand institution of the Church of
God.


Good manners is the art of making those
people easy with whom we converse; whoever
makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best
bred man in company.—Swift.

	Women govern us; let us render them per-
fect. The more they are enlightened, so much
more shall we be. On the cultivation of the
mind of the women depends the wisdom of the 
men. It is by women that nature writes on
the hearts of men.—Sheridan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
<column 1>

WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE. B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.,
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City,	-	-	November 1, 1891.


<column 1>
	    THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

	There is so much in the present day of the
material and practical to be met with, and people
are so swallowed up and environed about with
all sorts of problems that tend to develop these
faculties of human nature; there is really so much
realism and the age seems to have developed
these attributes, and of necessity too, for the
new forces, and inventions, demand it, and also
require means as well as method to bring
to perfection the new discoveries of science, that
as a race, we are somewhat in danger of losing
sight of higher endowments, or going backward
in other directions.
	The push and rush for gain, the excitement and
rivalry for business success, and the ambition for
popularity in public life, coupled with the race
after pleasure, or recreation, which follows ex-
cessive toil in the accumulation of wealth, these
seem to discount the sober pursuits of former
days; and the simpler pastimes and amusements
that were the delight of our forefathers and fore-
mothers; are not to be thought of in this fast age
of excitement and high living. The tranquility
of those days has almost passed away, and instead
of that we have the extreme of hilarity, the high
tide of popularity, and the excess of vanity. This
is the spirit of the world, and if persisted in will
eventually kill out the spirituality and tenderer
sentiments, refinements and graces, those that
sweeten and purify the atmosphere of human life,
and give zest and tone to the higher attributes
that lead to the cultivation of heart and mind;
and we shall find to our sorrow that though we
have gained knowledge of material and practical
things and have surpassed every other age in
improvements of a temporal kind, we have not
secured unto ourselves that jewel above all others
which we need most to brighten and adorn our
own souls, and without which, all else will pal[-]
upon the senses; the cultivation of our own
hearts; the lessons that we can only learn through
obeying the laws of God; the golden rule, to do
to others as we would they should do to us, to
love our neighbor as ourselves; to imitate Him
who went about doing good, to forgive as He for-
gave; to overcome our own weaknesses, our love
of self, of self-aggrandizement, to become as
little children, to be willing to trust our Heavenly
Father, and believe He is able to make us strong
wherein we are weak, to love one another as
Jesus loved us; to suffer if need be. Do we not
all need to stop now and then and consider
whether we are living for today, or if there is not
something greater and higher and more endurable
than what we lay bold of so greedily in the race
of life.
	Especially the Latter-day Saints who have
come out of the world, many of whom have left
their possessions of a worldly nature for the sake of
the Gospel, strange indeed that they should think
<column 2>
these grosser things of such great importance, as 
to neglect the spiritual.
	And this it is that often causes people to fall
into darkness, and error, and unbelief in the
things they once knew and testified to, and lose
the spirit that leads into all truth.
	How careful should we all be to keep continu-
ally with us the spirit of humility and obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel. Remember
too the admonitions of the Savior to the ruler who
asked Him what he should do to inherit eternal 
life? And Jesus said “Thou knowest the com-
mandments;” and He repeated some of them to
him, and the ruler replied, “all these have I kept
from my youth up.”
	Jesus answering said, “Yet thou lackest one
thing, sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto
the poor, then thou shalt have treasures in
heaven, and come follow me.”
	It is not only necessary to be exemplary in our
lives but to make some sacrifices, of those
things we hold as treasures, perhaps almost as
idols, to lay those upon the altar, without murmuring
and trust in God, is indeed approaching to that
sublimity of character that will secure eternal
blessings. The Savior said unto Peter, on one
occasion, “There is no man that hath left home
or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for
the kingdom of God’s sake, who shall not receive
manifold more in this present time, and in the
world to come life everlasting.” 
	Such are the promises held out to those who
are willing to make sacrifices, to pass through
trials, and to endure privation and affliction, and 
still hold fast to their integrity. 
	In order to endure with meekness and forbear-
ance the various vicissitudes and experiences that
beset the people of God, who are trying to serve
Him, it is specially necessary to put away selfish-
ness, to be self-sacrificing as well as to bestow
goods to the poor; and this is the hardest task of
all to men and women, and harder perhaps in this
day of prosperity and comparative grandeur, than
it was in the days of adversity and primitive sim-
plicity. To give out of the abundance the Lord
has given is easy compared to some other things.
	Though we are surrounded today as a people
with many temporal blessings, yet we are getting
some hard lessons; they are exceedingly inter-
esting to those who have learned thoroughly
some of the simpler ones given long ago, but to
those idle students, who have looked on while
others were learning, they are indeed difficult to
comprehend. In fact the Latter-day Saints have
got into the higher mathematics. It will be abso-
lutely necessary to have both faith and works,
and those who have cultivated the spiritual sense
will be able to cope with the abstruse problems
presented, far better than those who depend en-
tirely upon their reasoning powers. There are
many things that transpire in the course of one’s
life, that cannot be reasoned out conclusively,
notwithstanding materialists will tell you so. And
to the sincere and devout Christian these are not
stumblings blocks to faith in God, but testimonies
of an over-ruling power that increase the bond
of faith, that chain which unites the finite with
the infinite. It is the spark of divinity awakened
within the soul, that gives light to the mind, and
enables those who suffer, to grow stronger in faith
and brighter in the hope and assurance of the
future, and animates them with a desire to go on
to perfection, and to reach out a helping hand to
others, to all “our Father’s” children, to teach
them the lessons the Saints are trying to learn
more perfectly, for in the happiness of others in-
dividual happiness consists. And knowing our
own weaknesses and shortcomings, we should
grow to be charitable to others.
	As our minds enlarge, and we become enlight-
ened with that true knowledge of spiritual things
we see, as we had never been able to see before
the great need we have of being clothed with
<column 3>
the mantle of charity, that we may do good to our
fellows; we cannot approach them without love,
it is the great lever of the universe, love that will
uplift them, the love our Savior exemplified in
His life, the love which is the outgrowth of faith
that softens and subdues evil passions, and
counteracts evil influences.
	This is not the love of riches, or of power,
or of worldly pleasures, it is something
far above them; the humblest Latter-day Saint
may possess this supreme gift, if he or she lives
for it, though they may be dwelling in the lowliest
cot, or even in a tent; how often do we hear the
expression “We were far happier in the days of
our poverty, we had less anxiety, and annoy-
ances.” It is not wealth that brings content,
then why seek it graspingly, at the risk, of better
things?
	It reminds the writer of a simile used by the
Prophet Joseph and which was often repeated by
one of his brethren (now long since passed away)
speaking of men who had the disposition to
grasp everything within their reach, Joseph said 
it reminded him of a child (who invariably as we
all know) when picking up apples would fill his
apron as full as he could, but so long as he could
see an apple he would keep on trying to carry
more than the apron would hold and leave no
place to hold on to when down would go the
whole apronfull rolling away from him one after
another and all was lost—moral, “don’t grasp
more than you can carry or you may lose all.”
It would be a most deplorable thing if this people
should, because of worldly prosperity, grow proud
and haughty, and look down upon the poor and
lowly; who perhaps many of them might be their
superiors in intelligence and perchance in educa-
tion too—the Lord said to the Nephites,“Beware of
pride.” And the Book of Mormon teaches
many lessons upon this subject that the Saints
could well profit by.
	It cannot be denied that the Lord has blessed
this people“in their basket and in their store,”but
it is to be hoped they will not forget that they are
only stewards, and must use wisely the means
placed in their hands. One often hears the remark,
“such a one has talent he ought to cultivate it for
the good of others, to bless and benefit mankind,
he is culpable if he does not develop such gifts,”
and yet men whom the Lord has blessed with riches
seldom think it necessary to use it for the bene-
fit of others; in both cases, it is doubtless the
duty of the possessor to assist others, and so also
should those who have the gift of faith, not hide
it under a bushel, but apply it in a way to bless
mankind. Opportunities for doing good are all
around us, and they should not be overlooked. A
kind word is sometimes more acceptable than
an expensive gift. Kindness, gentleness, for-
bearance, these are all virtues, of great value in
our daily lives, that will increase and add to the
happiness of others and the loveliness of the hu-
man character. Great things are made up of
trifles, the world itself is composed of atoms; the
smallest courtesies we can render to those with
whom we are associated help to bind us more
closely in their affections. Too often in the pur-
suit of some pet scheme, some far-off bauble we
overlook the pearl that lies close to us, lucky for
us if we do not crush it in our haste to push on-
ward. The Savior said “whoso shall offend one
of these little ones, which believe in me, it were
better for him that a millstone were hanged about
his neck, and that he were drowned in the depths
of the sea.” How tender then ought we to be of
each other, especially in times of trials and per-
plexity, never wound another’s feelings, or exult
in any sorrow, or misfortune that may overtake
even those who have injured us. The Savior
taught us to forgive as we would be forgiven, and
in His marvelous language said, “Love your
enemies bless them that curse you, &c" Would


we could always have the sublime courage to
carry out in our lives these divine teachings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	President Zina D. H. Young attended the Relief
Society Conference of Emery Stake held at Price
on Saturday the 17th of October last. And in
company with Counselor Jane S. Richards at-
tended the Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Conference of Cache Stake at Logan on the 20th
of October. M. Isabella Horne President Relief
Society Salt Lake Stake attended the Relief
Society Conference of Davis Stake held at East
Bountiful on Friday Oct. 23rd. At each of these
conferences the sisters enjoyed themselves and
report a good work being accomplished in the
several localities.
	Report of Relief Society from Uintah, Cassia,
Salt Lake and other Stakes of Zion will be pub-
lished in due time—as we cannot devote too much
space to minutes of meetings and exclude other
interesting matter that helps to make variety. We
are very anxious to receive original articles and
poems from the sisters, or experiences which will 
be instructive and edifying and do good to the
writer as well as the reader. Sisters if you have
ideas that will benefit others put them upon paper
and send them to the press, they will reach a
larger number of people in that way, and by that
means you may be sowing some good seed that
will eventually bear fruit. Remember the saying
of Scripture "Cast your bread upon the waters it
will return after many days."


IN SACRED REMEMBRANCE.

	In our associations in life, how pleasant it is to
meet with spirits congenial, especially in visiting
the sick and afflicted.
	How joyful to meet with those whose faith and
confidence in God and His power is strong, with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	In memory of—and with love and respect, I
will refer to the many good times I have had with
our much respected, and beloved sister, Emeline
M. Benedict, whose funeral rites were solemnized
 at her late residence in the Ninth Ward in this
City, Thursday morning, Oct. 1st. Being ac-
quainted with our dear sister many years and her
acquaintance with my mother also, in my youth,
I had the pleasure of taking a few notes from her
own lips.
	When conversing with her about the beginning
of the Church. the power of God, manifested at
that time through the gifts belonging to the
Gospel, she bore a faithful testimony, filled with
the spirit of the Lord, to what she knew to be
true.
	Speaking of her early experience she says:—
	"I left N. Y., in 1841 or '42; your mother was
the first female Mormon I ever saw in N. Y., I
think she was the first messenger of her sex that
came into the Church at that place, and your
grandmother, Mrs. Ann Rhodes embraced the
Gospel soon after. I have heard your mother,
Eliza Rhodes Dollinger, speak in tongues, and I
always felt that her's was the true gift from God,
that there was no mistaking the power by which
she spoke, and by that was led to investigate. 
We lived on L. I., together, also in N. Y. We
attended the same school as girls, and together
embraced the same Gospel; almost if not at the
same time. We were always intimate, and how
we loved each other in those days when we first
learned the true Gospel. Brother Lucian R.
Foster, was the first President of the Brooklyn
Branch of the N. Y. Conference. I was first
baptized by Elder Daniel Lane and I am not sure
but he baptized your mother too. Your grand-
mother was converted through your mother's in-


fluence, but it was through great hardships and
persecution that she became a member of the
Church. A Brother Whaley and wife embraced
the Gospel also but fell by the wayside. Your
mother was so pure in heart and principle that
I never doubted one action of her life; her
promptings were of the Holy Spirit; she was a
mighty speaker in bearing testimony of the things
of God, and we all loved her so; we had our
evening meetings and they were so sacred and
holy to us, we never thought of neglecting them
for any thing else, O, yes, I remember well, and
the more we talk, the better I feel, and many
more things come to my mind, which perhaps,
will be interesting another time."
	Sister Benedict's house in the East was a refuge
for the Saints at all times and they loved to gather
there, and she was honored in death with the
presence of Pres. Woodruff and Pres. Joseph F.
Smith who attended the funeral services.
	Blessed and sacred be the memory of Dear
Sister Emeline Benedict, for her good works will
live while her mortal remains await in peace the
resurrection morn, when she will rise with the
just and rejoice with the saints of God, clothed
with immortality and eternal life, where sickness,
sorrow, pain and death is no more.
								C. D. P.


IN MEMORY OF JANE M. WALTON.

	The members of the Monticello Relief Society
feel it a duty to record a few incidents from the
life and memory of Sister Jane M. Walton, who
was accidently killed on the night of July 24th;
last, (and whose death has already been pub-
lished). Sister Walton was born July 16th, 1846.
She with her mother, Sister Jane Hatch of Bounti-
ful, emigrated to Utah in her childhood.
	At the age of 20 she married Charles E. Wal-
ton of Bountiful. Three children, one boy and two
girls, came in turn to brighten their home. They
have now grown to man and womanhood.
	Sister Walton with her husband and family
were called upon the almost famous "San Juan
Mission," in 1879, traveling with the pioneers,
and settling with them at Bluff City. The com-
pany was over six months upon that weary
journey, being out all winter, but Sister Walton
was never known to complain, but regarded as
the life of the company, always giving words of
cheer, and trying to make others feel happy. She
has shared in all the hardships that the Saints of
San Juan have been known to pass throngh, liv-
ing in a wild country hundreds of miles from civi-
lization, and surrounded by Indians. When
starvation stared every one in the face, she was
the one to comfort. Her faith in God never
wavered, she said "It is by God's will that we are
here He will not let us starve," although her
bread was ground in a coffee mill for many weeks.
Sister Walton's house was always a gathering
place for both old and young. She was truly a
leader in society. Three years ago she and her
family were called to Monticello, where she has
resided since, enduring the trial of starting
another new home in a new country, her home
was just beginning to be comfortable. Sister
Walton was conceded by all to be a perfect
housekeeper. It was always a pleasure to her
friends to spend an hour at her home, its very
surroundings breathed peace and rest.
	Her faith in the Gospel was undying, she filled
a number of prominent positions in the women's
organizations of the Church, at the time of her
death.
	Her funeral took place July 26thth, the services
being held in the meeting house, Pres. F. A.
Hammond presiding.
	Consoling remarks were made by Bishop Jens
Nielson, Elders P. D. Lyman, Allan and Jones,


also Pres. Hammond who spoke at length upon
the good qualities of the deceased and family.
	A large number of Sister Walton's friends came
from Bluff to attend her funeral.
	The remains were borne by six of the brethren
friends of the deceased, from her residence to the
meeting house, the different Societies of Sisters
marching in order behind.
	The floral decorations were the offering of her
lady friends, and were beautiful. A long cortege
accompanied the remains to the grove where they
were placed in their last resting place, by affec-
tionate hands.
	Thus passed from our midst an honest and de-
vout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother. The hymns sang were, "White robes
are waiting for thee." "Over the river of death,"
and "Nearer my God to thee." Prayer was
offered by Elder K. Jones. 
				MARY M. JONES, Pres.
				ANNIE BAILEY, Coun.
				SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Sec.
	Other papers please copy.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
				REPORTS.

				ST. JOSEPH. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of St. Joseph Stake was held at Central
Aug. 30, 1891, Pres. Wilmirth East presiding.
Conference opened by singing “Our God we
raise to thee.” Prayer by Bishop D. Mathews,
Continued by singing “The time is nigh.”
Present on the stand with Stake and local 
authorities of the Relief Society, were Pres.
C. Layton and Counselors, Patriarch Merrill,
and a goodly number of Bishops and their 
Counselors.
	Minutes of the last quarterly conference
were read and approved.
	Pres. East gave some very good instructions
to the sisters which were teeming with love
and kindness, asked them to be careful and
have their minutes and reports correct.
	Verbal reports were then called for and
were responded to by the following Presidents,
Layton Ward, Annie Packer; Thatcher, Eliza-
beth Moody; Central, Jennie Cluff; Pima,
Lydia Williams; Mathew, Clara Mathews;
Graham, Mary Peterson; Bryce, Caroline
Bryce.
	Coun. Cyrena Merrill spoke of the blessings 
we enjoyed. thought of all people we were the
most blessed; felt to appreciate the society of
our brethren in our meeting; thought we
should try and make duty a pleasure.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransom said she was well
pleased with the reports, felt to encourage all
to attend the meetings of the different organ-
izations and sustain and help the officers, was
very thankful our President, Sister East was
well enough to be with us again. Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing. Benediction
by A. Cluff.
	Afternoon session: opened with singing,
“Will you go,”&c. Prayer by Patriarch
Merrill. Continued with singing. Stake
officers were unanimously sustained by the con-
ference.
	Pres. C. Layton said he was pleased to be
present, would like to have seen more out.
Urged the people to be true and faithful and
remember we are working for the Kingdom of
God. Spoke of our looking after our spiritual
welfare Wished the branches of the Society to 
do their business on a strict business plan.
Asked the Lord to bless them.
	Brother George Cluff, of Heber City, was
invited to occupy some of the time; he spoke
very well upon the redemption of man through
Christ. Urged the young people to reflect
more;-and spoke of the bad influences they had


[Column 1]

to withstand when they set out to serve God.
Beautifully portrayed the need of mental
training, and showed the good advantage of a
well cultivated mind; especially when a family
are depending mostly upon us for their train-
ing. Hoped the young men and women would
be noble fathers and mothers, which was always
pleasing to God.
	Pres. East encouraged the Relief Society
branches to hold FAIRS in their wards and
asked the Y. L., and P. A. to join them.
	Patriarch Merrill said the women should be
prayerful that they might be able to teach
their children aright who were born heirs to
the Priesthood that they might appreciate the
magnitude of this blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Sweet is the work," &c. Benediction
by Wm. Johnson.
		RHODA E. Foster, Cor. Sec.

	COLONIA, JUAREZ, CHIHUAHUA, MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Juarez Relief Society of the Mexican
Mission was first organized July 13th, 1887,
with the following officers, Elizabeth Hawkins
President, with Sarah A Corden first and
Phoebe Fife second Counselors; Hannah Croft
Sec., Selina Cordon Treasurer—60 members
enrolled. It was reorganized July 10, 1890,
with Phoebe Fife president, Mary B. Eyring
first and Susan Martineau, second Counselor
D. E. Eyring, Secretary, Keturah Baker,
Treasurer, with 73 members. We have held
some 50 meetings, average attendance 30. Our
finances or requirements have not been very
large. Cash donations $17.35; provisions and
merchandise $95.80. Disbursed cash $15.25;
merchandise and provisions $85.80. Cash on
hand $2.10, merchandise $10.00.
	The Society in the first years of its organi-
tion labored under great disadvantages. There
was not much aid needed, until we had a few
cases of small pox, when the Saints being
called upon donated $68.00 to the needy. Our
prospects as a Society are improving and we
trust in the near future to be able to make a
better report. The organization at present is
as above, with the exception of S. E. Russell
acting Secretary, and Cynthia Bailey Treas-
urer.
	With kindest regards, your sisters,
			MARY B. EYRING,
			S. E. RUSSELL.

PACHECO WARD.
	The Pacheco Relief Soci ty was organized
Jan. 1, 1891. Its officers are Mary Porter,
President, Olive Moffett, and Pauline Naigle,
Counselors; Eliza Farnsworth, Secretary; Mary
A. Smith, Ass't. Sec'y.; Sarah A. Lunt, Treas-
urer. Besides the officers there are 33 mem-
bers enrolled making a total of 39—during
the time they have held 15 meetings with an
average attendance of 19—their financial re-
port is a very good one.

DUBLAIN WARD.
	The Dublain Relief Society was reorganized
July 20, 1891. Officers are Ida J. Mortenson,
President; Lydia K. Young, and Charlotte
Carroll, Counselors; Phebe I. Allred, Secre-
tary. The officers and members number 38—
meetings held 5. Average attendance 25.
Work meetings 2, average attendance 20.

JUAREZ, Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Association was organized Jan. 1, 1891,
officers as follows, Anice R. Scowson, President;
Cynthia Bailey and Sarah E. Russell, Coun-
selors; Caroline Romney, Secretary; Mary A.
Hall, Ass't. Sec'y. and Treasurer. Names en-
rolled 57; average attendance 30; meetings
held 23.

[Column 2]

PACHECO Y. L. M. I. A.
	This Association was organized Jan. 1, 1891,
at a meeting called for the purpose of organiz-
ing different associations in the Mexican
Mission, Bishop J. N. Smith presiding. Meet-
ings held 11, members enrolled 21, average
attendance 15, Testimonies 29, Bible exercises
6, Book of Mormon exercises 3, Select read-
ings 13; songs 8, recitations 3, essays 2, con-
joint sessions 3. Meetings discontinued April
10, 1891. Sabra Naigle, President, Sarah
Bancroft, Secretary.

DUBLAIN Y. L. M. I. A.
	This Association was organized August 15,
1891, with Catharine E. Porter, President,
Mary E. Call, and Nancy A. Williams Coun-
selors, Charlotte E. Carroll Secretary, Harriet
Call, Ass't. Sec'y., Persis A. Young, Treasurer,
Amanda E. Williams, Librarian; members en-
rolled 27, meetings held 6, average attendance
17, testimonies borne 44, miscellaneous readings
9, recitations 3, songs 5, essays 3, Bible
lectures 2, other lectures 3.

DUBLAIN P. [-].
	This Primary was organized Aug. 18, 1889,
Julia A. Jones, President, Jeanette Bluth and
Mary E. Lake Counselors, Hattie Call, Secre-
tary, Sarah J. Williams, Ass't. Sec'y., Hulda
Bluth Treasurer. Members including officers
92, meetings held 94, average attendance 41.

PACHECO P. A.
	This Primary was organized Jan. 3, l861,
Laura Meecham, President, Sarah Lunt and
Martha Porter, Counselors, Mary E. Foster,
Secretary, Viola Scott, Ass't. Sec. Total
number of names enrolled 59, meetings held
24, average attendance 25.
	These organizations all give very good re-
ports of their financial condition, and the
whole will be recorded with the full report of
the respective organization to which they be-
long.

W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., held its
regular monthly meeting in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Tuesday the 20th, of Oct.
1891. Vice President Louisa K. Spencsr in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Phebe C.
Young. Roll called. The Secretary read the
minutes of the last meeting, which were ap-
proved. Programme of exercises was carried
out as follows, reading from "Roberts Rules
of Order," by Dr. M. C. Shipp; address, sub-
ject, "Women Jurors," Lillie T. Freeze; com-
ments on the Constitution, Phebe C. Young;
song, Maud Pratt; speech on the "Influence of
Women when United," Elizabeth Mc'Farlane.
Lillie T. Freeze in speaking on women as
Jurors, thought them eminently qualified, by
nature and education for the position, as they
have constantly to weigh evidence, and pro-
nounce judgment, in settling difficulties among
their own children; and a conscientious mother
will strive to do justice to all and as every at-
tribute which we possess is increased by culti-
vation, she thought that mothers especially
would stand at least an equal chance, with
men who are selected, not because of any quali-
fication they possessed, other than that of sex.
	Phebe C. Young in her comments on the
Constitution, wished that the term citizen could
be defined for her, as in Article XV. Section
I. of the amendments to the Constitution it
was stated, "The right of citizens of the United
States to vote shall not be denied or abridged
by the United States, or any State, on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servi-
tude," she found that she had no right to vote
but when the tax collector came around, she

[Column 3]

could feel, for a short time, at least, that she
was a citizen.
	Caroline E. Dye made a short speech.
Emily S. Richards considered that the ladies
had been insulted, in a speech made by a
prominent politician at the late political
convention held in this city, who becoming
impatient at the delay in dispatching, the busi-
ness of the meeting, exclaimed, "let us get to
work, and not act like women and babies."
	Motioned and carried that Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, be appointed critic on rules of order. Mrs.
Richards suggested that some rules be made,
for dealing with officers who did not act, after
being appointed. The meeting was adjourned
until called together by the President in con-
vention, for the election of officers for the en-
suing year.
	Nellie Colebrook Taylor, led and all the
ladies joined in singing, "New America," after
which benediction was offered by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane, which concluded a very interest-
ing session.
			C. C. R. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PACIFIC COAST WOMAN'S PRESS
			ASSOCIATION.

	The women writers of the Pacific Coast
held a very successful three days' Convention
in San Francisco, Commencing Sept. 21st,
which included six business sessions, and one
public entertainment on the evening of the 23rd.
At the private meetings the following subjects
were discussed:
	First "Criminal Advertising and the Method 
of suppressing it;" second, "How to Promote
Immigration to our Coast;" third, "The Pres-
ent Apparent Arrest of Business Progress in
the West and its Cause;" fourth, "Newspaper
Work Beneficial to the Community;" fifth
"The Newspaper's Part in Social Economy;"
sixth, "The Difficulties besetting Women Pub-
lishers and Editors;" seventh, "The Line of
Work to be taken up by the Association as
a Whole to Create a Unity of Purpose."
	The Officers for the year are Nellie B.
Eyster, President; Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
1st Vice President; Sarah B. Cooper, 2nd
Vice President; Jeanne C. Carr 3rd Vice
President; E. T. Y. Parkhurst, Cor. Sec.; M.
V. Lewis, Assistant Cor. Sec.; Emily B.
Powell, Recording Sec.; S. T. D'Evelyn, Ass't.
Recording Sec.; M. L. Hoffman, Treasurer;
Isabel Raymond, Auditor; S. E. Reamer,
Librarian; Hannah L. Neal, Elwood Cooper,
and A. C. Waterman, Executive Committee.
	The Public Entertainment was an unquali-
fied success, Union Square Hall was literally
packed, and many were unable even to get in-
side the doors. There was a charming address
by the President, in which among other things
she told that the membership of the P. C. W.
P. A. has reached 150. Miss E. D. Keith
(Di Vernon) and Miss Adeline Knapp dis-
coursed brilliantly, the former about "A
Choice of Subjects," the latter on "Hints to 
would-be Newspaper Writers." Mrs. Emily
B. Powell, Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
Mrs. Lillian Plunkett recited beautiful original
poems;" and Mrs. Alice Kingsbury Cooley
gave a dramatic reading from her latest novel
"Asaph." The musical portion of the pro-
gramme was sustained by Miss Jerome; Miss
Grayce Howell, Mrs. Marian Taylor, and
Messrs. H. Kirke White, Martinez, Northrup,
and H. Clay Wysham.
	To the great regret of the members, Mrs.
E. T. Y. Parkhurst was prevented by illness
from being present and giving her paper on
the Duties of a Corresponding Secretary,"
which was a loss not easily bridged over and
many were the loving speeches privately
uttered about the much valued absentee. Mrs.
A. C. Waterman too was unable to read her


paper through sickness; another cause of re-
gret! but these were the only shadows that
dimmed the brightness of this, the 1st Annual
Convention of an Association which is already
a power for good on the Coast, and we wish
our friends in Utah to unite with California in
wishing the cause "God Speed."
						    M. TAYLOR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The following is an account of the routine
of a night at Gouverneur Hospital:
	"The night nurse at Gouvernour does not
often arise with bright face and laughing eye,
feeling as fresh and happy as a lark, at half-
past four in the afternoon of a hot July day,
but she scrambles out of bed and dons the
"stripes" (the uniform of the school is blue
and white striped seersucker) as quickly as
possible, that she may not be late for the
dinner at five o'clock. At six we get to the
wards to relieve the day nurses from duty,
and are often greeted with, "Well. I think
you will have rather a hard night."
	As I look around the ward I find the man
in the first bed is a sunstroke case, with a
temperature of 105°, and the orders are to
keep ice-bags on head and abdomen, give ice-
baths, and take temperature every fifteen
minutes until the temperature falls below 102°,
The child in the corner has pneumonia and
has on a poultice of linseed-meal, which must
be changed as often as it becomes cold, and
the child watched very closely. The delirious
patient in the other corner is to have an ice-
cap on his head, which must be kept well
filled with cracked ice. He has a fracture of
the base of the scull, and he raves and shouts
most, of the night.
	We have two patients more than we have
beds, consequently we must prepare four
patients to be transferred to Bellevue, in
order to have beds for the patients who will
come in during the nsght.
	At nine o'clock the doctors make their
rounds, and oftentimes there are dressings that
the doctor has had no time to do during the
day, and the nurse must always be ready to
wait upon the doctor the moment he enters
the ward.
	At eleven o,clock there is an ambulance
call and a man is brought in with three stab
wounds. He is covered with blood, hands,
face and clothing, has a long wound on the
face, a deep one in the shoulder, and a small
one in the abdomen. The wounds are sewed
and dressings put on. These dressings are
scarcely finished, when there comes another
call, and the ambulance brings in this time a
fine looking young man with a deep wound in
the forearm. From his nervous tremor and
restlessness I conclude he has been drinking
heavily, and this is confirmed when the house
surgeon gives the order for a "half-ounce of
the D. T. mixture immediately." His wound 
is dressed, and he is launched into bed and tied
down. Presently he begins to see snakes and
all sorts of creeping things upon his bed, and
he wants to get up and eat the man in the
bed next him. He finally becomes so violent
that he is put into handcuffs and taken to the
"Alchoholic cells" at Bellevue.
	Then things quiet down for perhaps an hour,
which time must be devoted to the man with
sunstroke and the child with pneumonia.
These, however, have not been wholly neglected
for there was time to make a poultice for the
child, and the helper has attended to the
bathing of the man, whose temperature has
fallen only one and one-half degree.
	Now it is time to begin the morning's work
of the wards, for they  must be all in order
for the day nurse when she comes on duty at

[Column 2]

eight o'clock. The temperature, pulse, and
respiration of each patient in the ward must
be taken and noted upon the chart, also any
new treatment ordered during the night, and
anything noteworthy in the condition of the
patient. Each bed is to be made, bed-linen
and patients clothing to be changed, if soiled,
while the floors are swept and washed by the
helpers.
	The medicines are given out at various
times through the night as each becomes due.
Then there is the patient's breakfast to look
after, and to see that all are served who may
eat the food, and that those who are on
special diet may get nothing but that allowed
them, whatever it may be."
	It would certainly seem that these women
earn ten or even fifteen dollars a month besides
their board and lodging. Here is an account
of a serious operation from a nurse's point
of view.
	"The nurse is responsible for making
antiseptic everything connected with an
operation except the surgical instruments.
She prepares the room, has the floor and
paint scrubbed, and every table and ledge
(there is no superfluous furniture) washed
with antiseptic solution. The dressings are
most scrupulously prepared, being boiled and
soaked and wrapped in antiseptic towels, or
kept until needed in large glass jars. The  nurse
is further responsible for having everything in
the room which the surgeon may possibly
want, such as hot-water, ice, hot-water bottles,
stimulants,ect., and must be prepared for every
emergency which, during the operation may
possibly arise. The patient is prepared by the
nurse, who gives a full bath, braids the hair, puts
on clean and suitable clothing, and arranges
her on the table, where she is always covered
with a sheet or a single blanket if necessary.
Another nurse helps the doctor give the
anæsthetic, and in fact, there are usually
three nurses at an operation of any importance,
the head nurse being in charge and the other
two her aids. She herself keeps her best eye
on the operator and stands in a certain place
where she can readily hand him hot towels,
sponges, bowls of solution, anything he may
need. The second nurse watches the supply
of hot towels, solutions, sponges, hot and cold
water, etc., while the third helps the junior
doctor who is etherizing the patient, and
fetches and carries, i.e, empties out water,
and puts it outside the door, where some
patient is stationed to carry it away and fill
up empty pitchers. In running an operation a
nurse always aims at having it go off without
a hitch, and sometimes it does, and sometimes
 not. Occasionally an operator is unreasonable
and asks for the moon, and occasionally he
makes a mistake and loses his head, and then
the nurses have a poor time of it, being
blamed if they have no boiling hot beef tea or
brandy when there is no means of heating it
in the room, the operation having already
lasted over an hour. A doctor if he is a
gentleman, usually thanks the nurse after a
long operation, and then she feels like doing
anything for him."
	Their hard day over the nurses go to the
Home, which is the stone building at the south
end of Blackwell's Island. These they have a
comfortable sitting-room with books and maga-
zines and a piano, and in summer they can play
lawn tennis outside or rest and watch the crowd
of boats that is always going up and down the
great river. But all the evenings are not
given to amusements, except during July and
August. The school is divided into junior, senior,
and graduating classes, and each has a "quiz" or
lesson once a week, and sometimes oftener,
which is usually taught by the Assistant
Superintendent. A skeleton, some large
colored diagrams, and a manikin who is re-
presented as if he were skinned, which gives

[Column 3]

him an unpleasant likeness to Marsyas or St.
Bartholomew; and who takes to pieces in a
startling manner, are much used at these
lessons, while some of the physicians and
surgeons of the visiting staff give lectures to
the classes from time to time. When at last
the two  years course is over, a board of
physicians hold the final examination which a
nurse must pass before receiving her diploma.
	At private nursing a woman receives from
$15 to $25 a week, which would pay her well
if she were always busy; but she is subject to
be overworked for some months and idle for
several more, and an excellent nurse said
recently that she should be satisfied to be sure
of making $600 a year.
	There are signs that the market is begin-
ning to be overstocked. The four large schools
which I have already spoken of have already
911 graduates, and every hospital of whatever
size must now have its training-school, so that
each year brings them a new crop of certifi-
cated nurses, more or less trained, according
to their capacity and opportunities. Some of
the schools announce that they have more
applicants than they can take, from which
outsiders have naturally been led to conclude
that pupils would be willing to come without
pay, but the superintendents, who are already
feeling the effects of competition, know well
that any such move would be fatal to a really
high standard. This competition between the
schools has not been without good results, in
that it has stimulated the different boards in
charge of them to greater efforts in the di-
rection of comfort in the Homes, and a distinct
and attractive course of instruction. And it
is to be hoped that something may be done to-
ward shortening the long hours of work in
the wards.
	In regard to graduates, the time has come
when the profession, if it is to be such, must
be protected. This can best be done by the
formation of a central committee or board,
which shall recognize only graduates of
standard schools, shall take the testimony of
their superintendents as to the fitness and
worthiness of such graduates, and after
submitting them to an examination, shall give
them a degree or diploma not obtainable in
any other way.
	The law sets the standard for physicians by
recognizing only the degreesof certain colleges,
which might be difficult in the case of train-
ing schools, but something must be done to
indicate and to protect the women who have
earned the best right to live by their trade.
It is not enough to let the stronger crowd out
the weaker, as in the case of stenographers or
telegraph operators, because doctors have
learnt to expect intelligent help from a trained
nurse,and if she fail them in a critical case, it
may mean the defference between life and
death.


EARNESTNESS IS POWER.
	
	Earnestness is power. He who is in earnest
will impress himself on others, whether he
would impart to them or would receive from
them. Yet no man will gain in earnestness
by seeking to be earnest, nor will he convince
others that he is in earnest by saying that he
is in earnest. In order to show earnestness a
man must be in earnest, and the man who is
in earnest cannot help showing it. Earnest-
ness is of the man's self, and it is drawn out by
the cause that can draw it out. When it is
drawn out every one who sees and hears the
man knows that his earnestness is real. If
therefore, a man is in earnest in behalf of
anything he undertakes he may know that he
has power in that direction, but if he lacks
earnestness it is of no use for him to try to 
seem earnest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.

	For the past fifteen years Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
has taught two classes yearly in Obstetrics
and Nursing, and her students have gone to
all parts of Utah on their missions of useful-
ness and good works. The members of her last
classes who have passed successful examina-
tions and received certificates of efficiency are
Mrs. Clara Kofford, Mt. Pleasant; Mrs. Emma
Green, and Miss Hattie Richards, Salt Lake
City; Miss Eliza Thackeray, Croyden; Miss
Susannah Hunsaker, Honeyville: Mrs. Abba
Stephens, Mrs. Emma Burnham, Mrs. Abba
S. Young, and Miss Mary A. Burnham, New
Mexico; Miss Emma Kofod, Levan; Mrs.
Camilla Danielson, Hyrum; Mrs. Penelope
Killpack; Mill Creek; Mrs. Artemesia Ander-
son, and Miss Jane Faux, Moroni; Mrs. Susan
A. Yates, Scipio; Mrs. Allie Young, Rabbit
Valley.
	Ladies desiring to join these classes will do
well to communicate with Dr. E. R. Shipp,
either personally or by letter at No. 34 South,
7th East St. Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman's Voice, in an editorial on the
women voters of Boston, says that from
present indications the woman's vote will
amount to at least 10,000 and will constitute
the balance of power in the coming school 
election.
	
	The ladies upon the Missouri State Board
of Commissioners of the World's Fair have
asked for $25,000 of the appropriation made
by the Legislature, to be applied in the
women's departments.  The supposition is that
the request will be granted, as the Com-
missioners favor the propisition.

	Ibsen is said to be contemplating a visit to
his native home, and will remain six muoths, 
either in the northern part of Scandinavia or
at a Danish watering place.  It is scarcely ex-
pected that he will return to Munich, but
that, on his return to Germany, he will take
up his residence in Dresden.

	Probably most people wonld be surprised to
learn that there is a spot in Africa where
women have even limited suffrage, but
under the government of the Cape of
Good Hope, which rules several hundred
thousand square miles of territory, women
have municipal suffrage.—Boston Daily
Journal.

	The spot which was selected for Lowell's
grave, and which, it is understood, was of his
own choosing, is under two large horn-beam
trees one of which is directly at the foot of
the grave and the other on the right of its head.
These trees are never trimmed, and their
cheif charm is natural and weird growth.
The lot is in a valley in the rear part of Mt.
Auburn cemetery, directly in the shadow of
the Longfellow lot, on Indian Ridge avenue.
Thus the two poets, who were neighbors in
life, may be said to occupy the same relation
in death.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	
	Be not simply good; be good for something.
—Thoreau.

	It is well to think well, it is divine to act
well.—Horace Mann.

	Night brings out stars, as sorrow shows us
truths.—P. J. Bailey.

	Modesty is to merit as shades to figures in


a picture, giving it strength and beauty.—
Bruyere.

	Use your gentlest voice at home. Watch 
it day by day as a pearl of great price; for it
will be worth more in days to come than the
pearl hid in the sea. A kind voice is joy, like
a lark's song, to a hearth at home. It is a
light that sings as well as shines.—Elihu
Burritt.

	And yet, in spite of this universal world
which we see, there is another world quite 
as far-spreading, quite as close to us, and more
wonderful; another world all around us, though
we see it not; and more wonderful than the 
world we see, for this reason, if for no other, 
that we do not see it. All around us are
numberless objects, coming and going, watch-
ing, working, or waiting, which we see not.—
John Henry Newman.


OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our esteemed sister, Elizabeth Sabin,
by the sisters of the Relief Society of Payson Ward.
	She was born May 31, 1811, was baptized in the year
1842, emigrated to Utah 1850, and died Aug. 16, 1891.
Aged eighty years, two months and fifteen days.
	She was an active member of our Society, and untiring
in attending and blessing the sick, an affectionate wife and
kind mother, and,
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call away
our beloved sister,
	Be it resolved that we esteem her goodness and faith-
fulness
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the family of
the deceased.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered on the record
of the Society, also a copy sent to the bereaved family, and
printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			M. A. HARDY,
			ANN PICKERING,
			ARTEMISIA WHITE,
				Committee.

	To the memory of Maria M. Jenson. Deceased was
born March 12, 1855, emigrated to Utah in the year 1872;
died in Salt Lake City, the 11th day of August 1891, leav-
ing a husband and six children, with a host of friends to
mourn her loss.
		IT IS NOT DEATH BUT SLEEP.
	Sister Maria Jenson has been a member of the Relief
Society of the Second Ward of this City since the year
1884; and has labored faithfully as a teacher of the same
for a number of years, and we deeply mourn the loss of a
loving sister, a kind and tender mother, and a true wife
and Latter-day Saint; always gentle and kind ever striving
to make peace and good-will among all with whom she was
called to unite with, and we feel to value her memory ever
among the sisters of the Relief Society of the Second
Ward, of S. L. City, and to say may God bless her hus-
band and family who are thus bereft of her society and may
we feel that all is well with the loved one who has gone,
and perhaps she  may be a stronger link in the chain that
binds us to our Father in heaven.
			SARAH E. MITCHELL, Sec.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Passed by the Y. L. M. I. Association of Moroni, on
the death of Sister Olive Thomas, who departed this life
Sept. 15, 1891. She was born in Moroni July 17, 1873.
	Whereas, it has pleased an Allwise Providence to call
from our presence our beloved sister, Olive Thomas, a
faithful member and everwilling worker in our Association
whose life of promise has thus been cut short in the bloom 
of youth and usefulness.—
	Be it resolved, that while we mourn the loss of her un-
wavering example to us in her steadfast integrity to the
principles of our Holy Religion, we are comforted in the
assurance that it is well with our sister, who has gone to
receive the reward of a faithful member of the Church of
Jesus Christ.
	We hereby extend our heartfelt sympathy to her parents
and relatives who mourn her loss. May their hearts be
consoled in the assurance that all is well with our sister.


And may we all be as energetic in the performance of our
duties as our sister was.
						ANNA RASMUSSEN, Pres.
						CAROLINE JENSEN, 
						HANNAH LARSON,
									Counselors.
						IDA LAURITZEN, Sec.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence another class in
Obstetrics and Nursing,
ON
Monday, October 19th, 1891,
AT HER OFFICE,
No. 18 S. MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
OFFICE.--324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.--8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONARY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Speciality.
NO. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

