
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1891.			No. 1


CONTENTS.

	Summer Vacation—Aunt Em. A Few Reflec-
tions—M. E. Kimball. Memorial Day— E. B. W.
Letter from Miss Anthony—Woman's Tribune.
An Interesting Party—E. B. W.	R. S. Reports
—Hyrum—Mesa—Bear Lake. Primary Fair,
Social Hall—E. B. W.	Notes and News.
	EDITORIALS:—Notice to Agents. Significance
of the Times. 	Old Folk's Red Letter Day.
	POETRY.—A Hundred Years or So—L. M.
Hewlings. Words of Cheer—Emily H. Wood-
mansee. Springville's Song of Welcome—Wm.
Clegg. Old Folk's Song—Henry W. Naisbitt.


[Column 1]
A HUNDRED YEARS OR SO

Roll up the curtain, backward turn the wheels of time
One hundred years, or so ago, todays of "Auld Lang
	Syne"
Spinning-wheel and loom were the fashion of the day,
All the folks wore homespun and women raked the hay.
Mixed their bread in kneading troughs, yellow corn and
	rye,
Baked in huge brick ovens, with pudding, beans and
	pie,
Rich pumpkin pie, the golden crown of every feast,
And then; their famous dinners regular boiled dish,
Luscious vegetables of every kind then known
Corned beef, mutton, pork, fairly made the tables groan
Piled high on pewter platter three feet by four,
Generous mugs of cider could any ask for more?
Women milked the cows then at eventide and morn, 
Made the butter and the cheese, often hoed the corn,
Scrubbed the floors as white as snow, strowed them o'er
	with sand,
Skipped barefooted o'er the mead, Queen of all the land.
Made hats, bonnets too, cut straw from fields of rye,
Small time for dress parade, in those old days gone by,
Banged hair was then unknown, men only wore the cue,
Plaited ribbon bowed like our modern pigtailed crew,
Fun they had at "raisings", big jolly times, they say,
Men and boys the country round out for one whole day,
Some at "killing bees" hogs slaughtered by the dozens,
Portions sent to neighbors, uncles, aunts and cousins,
Huskings, quiltings, apple bees, work combined with
	sport,
There was where the old folds say, Cupid held his court.
Charming rides in winter time, over snow and sleet,
Wrapped in robes of buffalo, furnace at their feet.
Horses spirited and gay, bells deep merry chime,
Glad hearts beat in unison sweeping on in line,
After supper dance begins, hear the prompter call!
"Scotch reel" or "Money musk," "choose your partners 
all"
Huge pine knots light up the house tallow-dip or whale,
Homeward bound at dawning light, thereby hangs a tale.
Coachman four in hand or six, hero of the day,
Toots his horn, and cracks his whip, all must clear the
	way.
Sixty miles, a wondrous trip; passengers and mail
Shades of Ceaser! who then thought of riding on a rail?
In winter's drifting snows, to clear the road of school, 
Sturdy oxen beat the track, strong hands plied the tools.
Three months of summer, the same in winter taught,
Quite enough of teaching, our old grandparents thought,
The pupils Eden was the spelling match at night,
Crown of all their studies that gave them most delight,
Many there were mated—their legends tell us so!
They married then for love, one hundred years ago!
On oaken settles seated, fronting fires glow,
Toasting apples, cracking nuts, spinning flax or tow,
While their sires repeated deeds of volor done,
Clearing up the wilderness, making Redcoats run.
Rallying days they had—election came in May,

[Column 2]
Trainings,general musters, were all the go they say,
The glorous Fourth was'nt celebrated slow;
Earnest demonstrations made patriotism grow.
Every human creature the oldest to the babe,
Drank its inspiration, helped to swell the grand parade,
Then the cannonading, and. beacon fires glow,
Roused the whole creation, one hundred years ago.
"Our Fathers where are they?" who struggled on for years
Toiling for a country, 'mid blood and sweat and tears,
Sustained the declaration, only fought for right,
For God, for home and freedom, united in their might,
Firmly laid foundation, that liberty might grow,
Smile not now, in thinking their progress very slow
Of their sowing and reaping, sickle scythe, and flail,
While fleeing through the country; riding on a rail
Wondrons things have happened one hundred years now
	gone,
Quarrels and dissensions on Uncle Samuel’s farm.
Now the sheller and the reaper play an active part,
Then neither would been known from Noah's ancient ark,
Lightning speeding messages sent around the globe,
Great countries unknown then now opened and explored.
Steam power perfected and kingdoms overthrown;
Yet one thing is certain the world has not outgrown, 
Since the pair turned from Eden to toil, till and plan;
Old time has never faltered in reproducing man.
Still human nature lives tho' fashions come and go,
Query! has it improved, since one hundred years ago?
Roll down the magic curtain, we'll view the scene apart'
The question is before you; answer from the heart.
	L.M. Hewlings
	Atchinson, Kans.


[Column 1]
SUMMER VACATION

	We are drawing near the summer vacation.
The schools, academies and universities are
about closing, or have already finished the last
semester and have held their graduating ex- 
ercises. The teachers have distributed their
prizes for essays, readings and speeches, and
normal students received their certificates, the
valedictory has been read by some talented
young lady in white, with soft creamy lace
and a flutter of ribbons, and the usual excla-
mation from the young men “how pretty,”
and so forth, and the farewells have been gone
through, some tears shed and a great many
kisses exchanged (among the girls, of course),
with fervent promises to write often. Possibly 
some of these students need a vacation and a
 rest—but there are many others, too, who need
it as much, and it may be more,—people who
need to recruit after long and steady applica-
tion to business. Does any one need change 
and rest more than the mother, the wife, the
one to whom all the household look for every
comfort in the home? And yet how often it
happens that she, self-forgetful, is left to pick
up and put away, to repair and re-arrange,
while other members of the family go pleasur-
ing “over the hills and far away.” Well, so
it is, and so it will be until women think of
their own health and the necessity of econo-
mizing strength, nerve force, and brain power
that they may prolong their own lives, which
is quite as noble as to sacrifice them to the 
selfishness of others.
	But leaving this vexed question of the 
rights of mothers for future discussion we will 
go back to the topic—summer vacation
People of leisure go to the seaside, or into the
mountains, to escape the heat and dust, to rest
weary mind and over wrought brain; to loiter
on the beach and catch the soft, invigorating
sea breeze, occasionally “gathering shells” or

[Column 2]
writing in the sand, humming rhymes and
ballads that have immortalized the seashore
as well as the poet who wrote them perchance
far away from the seashore itself; or, wander
among the hills, resting in shady nooks and
dells, soothed by the songs of birds and often
startled by the glare of some handsome serpent 
and here methinks one might moralize, for
there are a sort of serpents whose charms are
not only poisonous but fatal, who frequent
summer resorts, but we will let that pass now,
and only speak of tired people and their
places of resting, while they breathe in with
summer idleness intoxicating draughts of
heavy fragrance, sweet with all the sweets of
woods and shrubs and flowery perfumes. These
seekers of pleasure, try to forget the toils and 
bustle of the cumbrous, noisy machinery of 
active business life, and often care not even
for the daily papers, but amuse themselves in
various idle ways, as though life had no higher
aim than to banish care. It maybe that to
linger thus in some secluded spot, amid the
beautiful, near nature’s heart, passive if not
forgetful, exhilarates and strengthens the mind
as well as the body for the harder, fiercer con-
flicts wieh which all must sometime contend
unless life be like a smooth,  summer sea with-
out scarce a ripple; but our lines here are not
usually so serene and placid, we wot not what
the future may be, but are happier in believ-
ing that we shall not be weary there in the
“great beyond,’’ that all tears will be wiped
away, that the flowers will bloom forever and
summer will be eternal, and pleasures never
pall, 
	‘‘Here summer hath its heavy cloud,
		The rose leaf must fall, 
	But in that home joy wears no shroud,
		Never doth it pall."
But while we remain in this probation we are
very susceptible to annoyance and excitement
some perhaps more than others,  but all more
or less, and there are many ups and downs,
hard knocks and hurtful wounds, that need
careful and tender treatment, and consequently
we need help, self-help that comes from forces
well developed and thoughts well defined; and
we need to have self control, and to have this
concentrated power, there must be an equil-
librium, a self poise that can only be attained
when all the vast machinery of the human
system works harmoniously; no organ,  no
function must be out of tune, or discord will be
the inevitable result.
	Following this course of reasoning, it must
be true that those who take proper rest and
recreation are best fortified for every emer-
gency and can endure greater strain of mental
and physical power and still maintain a dignity
of balance, a placidity or solidity that those
over-taxed and over-worked are not equal to.
These summer vacations may leave or create
a reserve force for future consumption that is
not supplied to those who keep up an incessant
and continuous labor year after year, wearing 
away the vitality that if frugally used might
prolong life and usefulness. However circum-
stances, control these summer vacations with a
large class of people. Some event transpires
that gives time and opportunity for the relief
nature requires, and thus without planning and
exertion the needed relief or pastime comes.
We call this chance, and yet we cannot but
feel that in the great struggle for mastery right
 ometimes conquers might in unseen ways,


[Column 1]
and the rest so essential to the ardent worker
comes unsought as though some good angel had
his welfare at heart and made the necessary
arrangements.  Sometimes wealth inclines its
fortunate possessor to seclude himself from the
“dear five hundred friends” that throng around
and fawn and smile upon him, and with a
favored few he resorts to some locality where
he is unknown, that he may be for a short time
at least at his ease, and act himself without the
restraints of “polite society,” in the sense that
Madam Grundy applies the term.
	Then another class still must strain every
nerve in order to afford the time to take a run
out of town, to clamber over hills, or sit by the
side of the winding stream to fish a little, mus-
ing meanwhile, and only starting into remem-
brance of the occupation when there is a bite;
working harder for weeks and days beforehand
to get ahead with business, and after returning
to make up for what is termed “lost time.” To
such the pleasure scarce compensates for the
toil, and yet it is after all, a change from the
constant monotony of everyday work.  Happy
are they who have means and opportunities to
spend a few weeks of the dry summer months
in some pleasant manner, that will awaken
latent powers, refresh memory, and develop
greater activity and freshness of body and
mind, thus prolonging life and increasing use-
fulness.  Why should we not make the most
of our life here upon earth?  It is in this wise
if we live nobly, that we will fit ourselves for
the greatest and highest advancement hereafter.
We are told by students of health, hygiene, and
philosophy, that we must take plenty of rest
and out door air as well as exercise, to store
our minds with knowledge and intelligence, for
we all know how incapable of accomplishing
any great good is a person deprived of healthy
activity, with a positive lack of nerve force
and the innate power to overcome difficulties
and to rise superior to misfortunes or unhappy
circumstances.
	Country air is healing, generally speaking,
and the great contrast to city life is so widely
apparent that one soon feels the difference.
The habits of country people, their “sweet
simplicity” and homely ways are so genuine
and natural, that one feels much benefit from
the contact, and an experience in studying
character that develops another phase of
human life, and adds to the stock of information
on a subject which is always interesting. 
	It is said everywhere, and it seems to me by
everybody, that this is a fast age, things move
rapidly and the people seem more in a hurry.
It is the age of new and strange inventions
all of them tending to rapidity, and approach-
ing a greater degree of excellence in attain-
ment to whatever they represent.  Yet though
much of the hard labor once done without
machinery of any kind, can now be accom-
plished by some of these new inventions, and
thus much human strength saved; yet there
seems to be plenty of work for all the workers,
and people seem quite as weary nowadays as
formerly.  It makes one wonder what it all
means.  I suppose there must be just as much
time as there ever was, that is, days are twenty-
four hours long, and every hour contains sixty
minutes, and each minute sixty seconds, but
one can scarcely believe it when this spirit of
hurrying gets possession of him.  There are
to be sure a good many idlers, not those who
need rest, but who live idle lives all the year
around, and perhaps this is one of the reasons
why the diligent laborers have so much more
to do, and can seldom get even a summer
vacation of a week or two.  Idleness is a vice
but not considered a crime, that is, before the
law (and law is gospel in these days, so some
people think), although it often leads to it, but
some people live a long life of idleness at the
expense of faithful industry on the part of
relatives or friends.  Referring to the country
[Column 2]
and summer, inevitably carries me backward
to the merry days when I was a little country
girl, and wandered among the hills gathering
wild-wood flowers, and sang as I rambled,

"Flowers; wild-wood flowers, in a sheltered dell they grew,
I hurried along and I chanced to spy
This small staff flower with a silvery eye,—
Then the blue daisy peeped up its head 
Sweetly the purple orchis spread.”

And so on, and on.  I roamed in the deep
forests like a very wood nymph and thought
like the poet,

	‘‘That Nature hides her very loveliest things
	Deep in the heart of woods." 

And by the ponds I gathered often, I have
since thought at the risk of my life, the water
lilies, pond lilies we children called them, the
same poet quoted above, says:

	"Yes! e’en those lilies, simple as they are,
	And beautiful as well—are quite beyond 
	The reach of careless fingers.  Would one grasp 
	Their od’rous beauty one must wade far out,
	Regardless of the flags and tall rough sedge,
	And ferns, and rushes harsh, that fringe the edge.”

	But I am much afraid my taste for country
pleasures prolongs this article beyond the
patience of the reader, but if he or she be
tired, and over-worked, let him or her take a
summer’s vacation and camp out in the cañons
it will whet the appetite and do more for the
nerves than all the doctors’ medicine.  The
languor of these beautiful summer days really
makes one desire to rest a little, and to in-
dustrious, indefatigable workers, such rest as
one may find among brooks and birds and
mossy rocks and shady dells would be a stimu-
lus more potent and exhilarating than the city
can offer in the way of luxury or recreation. 
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A FEW REFLECTIONS.
		
	THE FULFILLMENT OF A PROPHECY.

	Yesterday while reading, Section 130,
Doctrine and Covenants, I felt strongly im-
pressed with the idea that this prophecy was
fulfilled in the year 1890.
	It reads thus: "Joseph my son, if thou livest
until thou art 85 years old, thou shalt see the
face and the Son of Man; therefore let this suf-
fice, and trouble me no more on this matter."
In another verse, "I was left thus without be-
ing able to decide, whether this coming re-
ferred to the beginning of the Millennium or to
some previous appearing, or whether I should
die and thus see His face. I do not think He
will come before that time."
	I should say however, in another previous
verse it reads, "I was once praying very
earnestly to kno the time of the coming of
the Son of Man, when I heard a voice repeat
the following," as written above. This re-
minded me of a text from which I heard a
sermon preached in Utica N. Y. It was this:
	"Surely the Lord God will do nothing but
He revealeth His secret unto His servants the
prophets." He took this text from the Bible
Amos 3rd chap. 7 verse. I feel satisfied how-
ever that this has been, and will be the case
when there are people on the earth who have
this gift. And you know what St. Paul said:
'Seek earnestly the best gifts, but rather that
you prophesy."
	St. John the Revelator tells us that the testi-
mony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Ac-
cordingly those who will apply their minds to
the study of those principles, and live in ac-
cordance with the same, with humility of heart
can obtain this precious gift for their own bene-
fit, if no more.

[Column 2]
	I am positive that weak, frail, and as im-
perfect as I am, I have been blessed with a 
foreknowledge of something to my benefit, but
it came in a night vision and not with an
audible voice; and I was left to watch for the
result. It was comforting when it came, and
I felt to say the Lord does hear and answer
prayers today as He did anciently. Did He
not say in the last days He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh. Then if we do not
obtain those blessings which He has promised
it is our fault, not His. I sometimes think
we are very much like children at school. I
am told that those the most bright and intel-
lectual are not always the best students. They 
think, oh, I can grasp taht intelligence when I
give attention to it, but now wish to do some-
thing else. When the next time arrives they
are not so well prepared to give their minds to
it But the dull student feels the need of this
intelligence and applies his mind and every
energy of his soul to grasp the same, and
asks the aid of his teacher to accomplish it,
because he knows how much he is in need of
the knowledge and appreciates it as he
would gold.
	I believe the Prophet Joseph to be one of
this class, an earnest, faithful student when he
saw the importance of the work; feeling his
own weakness, he sought earnestly the aid of
Divine assistance; and as we are told that God
is a spirit and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth. Such He de-
lights to bless.
	Joseph Smith was born in 1805, accordingly
he would be 85 in the year 1890. We are
told in Sec. 30 and 3rd verse that the work
of the Lord is never frustrated, but the work 
of man. The fourth verse reads: "For al-
though a man may have revelations and have
the power to do many mighty works, yet if he
boasts in his own strength, and sets at naught
the counsels of God, and follows after the
dictates of his own will, and carnal desires, he
must fall and incur the vengeance of a just
God upon him.
	We learn since this great work of the Dis-
pensation of the fulness of times is going on
that it behooves us all to watch and pray. Not
only so but to study the Scriptures that we may
have oil in our lamps, and not be like the
foolish virgins; I am inclined to believe the
Savior's work is now about to begin with the
blood of Israel the Jews; and it seems that the
year 1890 is to be the commencement of that
portion of the work.
	I remember that Apostle Orson Pratt once
said we were Gentile Saints. If so we must
improve upon that we have learned, and re-
member the Jews are to be saved and do a
work in the last days; and perhaps be more
zealous in the cause than we are today, for we
find ourselves overwhelmed by the cares of
this world many times, that we neglect the im-
portant lesson of "Seek and ye shall find,
knock and it shall be opened unto you."
	May we not become weary in well doing, for
in due time we will reap if we faint not. This
we can learn from Holy writ. But if we become
careless and indifferent in keeping the laws of
our Father, we will certainly lose our reward,
and darkness and confusion take the place of
light and truth.
	Let us therefore watch and pray, lest we
enter into temptation, and lose our reward.
	M.E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1891.


Love is a method of protracting our greatest
pleasure.—Goldsmith.
	The most distinguished literary woman in 
Rome is the Countess Lovatelli, who lives in 
a palace at St. Angelo,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORDS OF CHEER.

TO THE AUTHOR’S ESTEEMED FRIEND MRS. HANNAH
T. KING.﻿
	A Fragment.
’Tis easy sailing in the summer weather,
	Athwart the tranquil wave;
But ’tis the storms of life that show us ever
	The true, the staunch, the brave.

Fate wills it that the sunshine’s warmest lovers—
	But rarely feel its glow,
Yet ’neath affliction’s cloud that o’er them hovers,
	Many in beauty grow.

And never is their courage so surprising,
	Their efforts so supreme—
As when Misfortune’s billows fiercely rising—
	High as the mountains seem.

Their loyalty to truth, their brave persistence;
	Is never sway’d by fear;
So firm their faith in Heav’ns benign assistance
	The faint of heart they cheer.

Hail, dauntless hearts! who ’reft of fairest chances,
	Are never vanquished quite:
Hail, sterling souls! whose steadfast help advances
	The victory of Right.

Oh wherefore are they sorely bruised and tempted,
	These earnest ones and true?
These burthen’d souls, who scorn to be exempted,
	From helping others too?

Beloved and honor’d friend so highly gifted—
	Yet often times distressed;
Rejoice in this, that those who strengthen others
	Must needs in turn be blest.

Life, cannot be a failure, blank and dreary
	To one who joy imparts,
Whose aim, whose pleasure ’tis to help the weary
	And comfort sorrowing herrts.

Not to the soul who glides through this probation
	Will God award a crown?
The noblest spirits rise through tribulation
	To glory and renown.

Was ever pathway thornier and rougher—
	Than that which Jesus trod?
Oh is it strange that those who toil and suffer—
	Are well beloved of God?

“Our Father”, with His children sympathises—
	And bids the angels keep—
A strict account of all our sacrifices;
	“And all who sow will reap."

Nothing is lost, the hardest well-learned lessons—
	Fit compensation bring;
And there’s an endless future bright with blessings
	For Hannah Tapfield King.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


MEMORIAL DAY

IN REMEMBRANCE OF HANNAH T. KING.

A few of the very particular friends of Mrs.
H. T. "King (deceased) spent a very pleasant
afternoon at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball on Wednesday June 17th. The object
was to observe the day in memory of that
venerable lady, authoress, and poet, who had
contributed so much for the enjoyment of
others. The idea originated with Mrs. Kimball
the hostess, she communicated it to Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, and they confered together
cards of invitation were issued to twelve ladies,
and meantime Mrs. Kimball made the neces-
sary preparations. The afternoon was spent
in reminiscences of Mrs. King, the reading of
interesting letters she had written to the ladies
present, poems, fragments of poems, sketches
etc., these with conversation concerning her
life and friendships occupied the time, until
dinner was announced at five p.m. Vases of
beautiful flowers, roses predominating orna-
mented the table and beside each plate an


artistically arranged bouquet of the choicest
and most fragrant blossoms and leaves, a
double card tied with white ribbon with the
name of the lady on the outer card and open-
ing underneath was a motto to Mrs. King and
a verse from one of the Psalms for each per-
son. Mrs. Kimball made this a sort of tri-
bute, to Mrs. King’s memory as she was
specially fond of the Psalms. Mrs Kimball
opened- the Bible for each of the ladies and
wrote the verse on which her eye rested.
	After the dinner, which was a sumptuous
one with ice cream and strawberries for desert
by request of the hostess each lady read her
card and each one seemed to feel she had an
appropriate verse. Then Mrs. Kimball taking
the lead the ladies rose, and before leaving the
table each in turn made a little speech allud-
ing to their association with the one in whose
honor they had met together, and it was, de-
cided to meet again next year at the home of
one of the ladies present.
	After dinner conversation upon the same
subjects was continued and other literary
papers of Mrs. King’s were read, it was a very
enjoyable and exceptionally agreeable party,
and the ladies were very grateful to Mrs. Kim-
ball for her unique tribute to the memory of
one so dear to them all. It was a day never
to be forgotten by those present.
	The names of those who responded to the
invitation were Mesdames -Louisa Spencer,
(Mrs. King’s daughter), M. Isabella Horne,
Elizabeth Howard, Fewson Smith, Elizabeth
Mc’Farlane, Alice Weinel, Emily H. Wood-
mansee and Emmeline B Wells.
	E. B. W.


LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.

	Rochester, New York, June 12th 1891.
MY DEAR MRS. COLBY:

	Enclosed is report of our house-warming
last evening. I reached home the night be-
fore, to find lovely new rugs on the floors and
new paint and paper on the walls. My sister
has been in the midst of repairs of the old
home the past two months and more; and when
the masons, carpenters, painters, haugers, etc., 
were done with their part, she placed the few
nice old bits in my rooms, and Mrs. Greenleaf,
Mrs. L. C. Smith and other friends, placed
carpets, chairs, etc., which with dear Rachel’s
nice old oak bed-room set, and my elegant,
great writing desk, and Mrs. Sewall’s splendid
chair, make our rooms look cosy and home-
like once more. Since the death of our dear
mother, eleven years ago, my sister has not
kept house, but only kept her upper floor,
renting the first one, and taking her meals
with the renters. But now we have the entire
house all to ourselves and our friends who
come to see us. Next week to the Adiron-
dacks with the Rev. Anna Shaw, to visit a
few days with Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Banker, in their summer home. After June
25th I shall be at home with and to myself and
friends until the time to go to Washington; and
then, no Riggs House with dear Mrs. Spofford
in it, but we shall have a home with her, I
trust nevertheless. I wish I could tell you of
my journeyings. I had a pleasant visit with
Mrs. Hooker in her dear old home in Hart-
ford; a nice time in Brookline with the Garri-
sons, the week of the Boston Anniversaries
which seemed to have resolved themselves into
those of the liberal religious and reform
societies; Unitarian, Universalist, Free Re-
ligious, Heredity, Moral Education, Nationalist,
Woman Suffrage etc. En route home, I spent
a few days with Mr. and Mrs. William Whit-
ing in their beautiful home in Holyoke. One
day was devoted to a luncheon party of a
hundred or more ladies in their farm log cabin!
[Column 2]
three miles down the river. The Connecticut
valley is lovely, and their log cabin! with ex-
quisite fire-place, worthy the grandest old back-
log and fore-stick, beautiful polished floors,
and the lunch served by a Springfield caterer
in most approved modern style, not that of our
dear old Grandmother’s. After the tables
were cleared, Mrs. Whiting called on me for
a talk, which I proceeded to give them for
another hour, of which Mrs. Whiting writes
me the enclosed! The other day was spent in
driving up the lovely valley six miles to Mount
Holyoke Seminary, going through the various
buildings, seeing the girls, over two hundred
of them, and in the great old kitchen looking
upon neat plateaus of beautiful light sweet-
smelling bread, biscuits, and cake, all made by
the girls during the morning. Two hundred
dollars gives a girl all the advantages of this
school, and each one must do a certain amount
of the work of the house. Now the coarser
and heavier parts of it are done by hired wo-
men, but still there is plenty for them to do;
making the beds, sweeping the rooms, ironing
their own clothes, setting and serving the
tables, washing the dishes, etc, and all is done
in the memory of the sainted Mary Lyon,
whose monument stands under the grand old
trees that surround the buildings.
	Then on Sunday I went to Cheshire, to dine
with my mother’s dear cousin, Mrs. Anna
Jenks Richardson, 95 years of age, bright and
cheerful in her on-look. She and her husband.
Ira Richardson, and my grandfather Read,
were Universalists in the long ago when it cost
much more not to believe in eternal torment
than it does Brother Briggs now. Then I
hied me to the house of my grandfather
Anthony, who lived in it from the day of his
marriage with Hannah Lapham in 1792, to
his death at the age of ninety-six years. There
I met the two youngest brothers of my father
seventy-three and eighty-three; thence with
my cousins, I drove to Bowen’s Corners, on
one of which, my father and mother built their
house the year they were married, where their
three older girls and eldest son D. H. were
born. Old Graylock Mountain rears its head
on the West and Green Mountain chain for-
tifies the East, while Hoosick River winds its
way northward to the Hudson, with factories
of all sorts lining its banks. The scenery is
more beautiful than I can describe, and now
clothed in its June dress, it is simply lovely!
	Accompanied by my cousins, I spent Monday
morning in going over the immense print
works of Arnold and Company, in North
Adams, and such things of beauty of all pos-
sible colors and figures as they bring forth
from the plain unbleached muslin are simply
miraculous. The next day I spent driving up
the Battenkille, on which are the towns of
Battenville and Center Falls, where we lived
from 1827 to 1845. There I went through
from garret to cellar the two very old houses
in which we lived and enjoyed, and the new
large brick house that my father built in
Battenville, in 1832, the large old school-room
over the wood-shed, in which we, and our
neighbor’s children were taught by the best of
teachers those days afforded. Well I lived
over the olden times, though but very few of
the older people were there. On that evening
went to Saratoga Springs, and took a drink
from the Old Congress Spring, and on Wednes-
day evening reached home at 9:30 and on
Thursday evening the paper tells you what
happened, and now I am enjoying all the
good will of all my dear friends of today.
Lovingly yours,
Ex.	SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


There are 402 women studying in the Swiss
universities.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall sailed for France
June 13, with Mr. Sewall.


Woman's Exponent

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LALT CITY UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake Cily Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	July 1, 1891.


NOTICE TO AGENTS.

	The subscribers and agents of the EXPONENT
in the several localities will please notice that it
is time to renew subscriptions and to pay up
arrears, and we hope and trust that there will be
a special interest taken in the paper because of
its being the official organ of the Relief Society,
and also as it is the only publication in Utah that
keeps posted on the Woman Suffrage question,
and that takes pains to publish for the Primary
Associations. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has an
established reputation outside among the wo-
men's papers, and has been the means of adver-
tising the status of the women of Utah more
than any other periodical. This is not an asser-
tion without proof. It is placed on the list of ex-
changes of prominent papers in England as well
as America, and in its columns the women of
Zion have an opportunity to express ther ideas to
the world. The value of a publication of this
kind can hardly be over-estimated, and the sisters
should be alive to the importance of this matter
and increase their efforts to enlarge the circulation
and make it more attractive in appearance which
cannot be done without money. If the exertion
were made generally this could be accomplished
successfully. Will each agent try what can be
done in her particular locality to secure more
subscribers; $1.00 a year is very little to give to-
wards supporting a literary enterprise. Send in
your lists as early as possible, with the money, do
not delay.


[Column One]
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE TIMES.

	Wherever the ballot has been given to woman, 
whether for special purposes or equal suffrage, the
best results possible have been obtained, and 
opponents to woman suffrage are unable to point
out disastrous consequences, because of woman’s
vote. It is without doubt a time in the history of 
nations, when woman’s voice, her influence and 
power is absolutely necessary, to accomplish the 
grand achievements and reformations, morally and 
politically that are on the tapis. The time is fast 
approaching when men will find woman’s help
necessary and they will undoubtedly ask for it,
and then let woman be prepared to maintain the
position, and advantages that will be offered un-
derstandingly. So far all along the way of pro-
gress she has had to contend for her just rights,
and demand recognition, but it will not always be 
so; men will see that it will be for their own good
and the uplifting of humanity to acknowledge
woman’s equality, and even already they are 
slowly awaking to this supreme fact, and eventu-
ally they will reach out the “olive branch of
peace,” to woman and whenever this transpires, 
as it surely will, we trust woman’s intuition will
lead her to accept gracefully the proffered favor,
[Column 2]
even though she may think it only her rightful
heritage.
	The sleep that has fallen upon the race, women 
as well as men, has been so deep and ab-
sorbing that they only awaken as from a night-
mare, alarmed at the growth of ideas and it will 
take time to bring them out of the stupor back
to their primeval condition. Some have awakened 
early in the morning of these changes, and these
are the pioneer workers men and women bringing
to pass the revolution in politics and morality,
that is to redeem society from the evils under
which it has been laboring so long. 
	Co-operation will be essential, the united and
organized effort of both men and women. This
will be the lever that will move the great ob-
stacles out of the pathway of legitimate progress
in all that will tend to the advancement of the
state or the nation and the purification of the
home, and of society. Men and women do their
best work together, for as the Scriptures tell us
“Man is not without the woman nor the woman
without the man in the Lord.” Neither can one
do any important work without the other, the 
physical and the spiritual forces must both har-
monize and be properly adjusted, if any great
struggle is on hand.
	Our readers will remember in this connection 
the story of the deliverance of Israel by Borak
when he refused to go to battle without Deborah
and said unto her “If thou wilt go with me, then I
will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, then I
will not go.”
	‘‘And Deborah went up with him.” All who
read the Bible know the result of this enterprise
and how they praised the Lord in song afterwards
and it was called “the song of Deborah and
Barak.”
	It is true the argument is brought forward that
this was an exceptional case, and that Barak was 
a coward to want a woman to go up with him to 
battle, but she prophesied unto him nevertheless,
and the Lord inspired her to do this great work;
in the 7th, verse of the 5th chapter of Judges it
reads “The inhabitants of the villages ceased,
they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose
that I arose a mother in Israel.”
	Who does not know at a later time the history 
of Joan of Arc?
	And yet men in this nineteenth century bring 
up the paltry plea against woman suffrage, that
they are the protectors of women.
	In thousands of instances men need women to
protect them, and prevent them from committing
grievous wrongs?
	It is the restraining influence from evil that
women possess that protects men and it is an ele-
ment that is needful in political as well as
social life. It is not necessary to go into details to 
prove this fact, the proofs are all around if one is
not blind to see.
	As to the significance of the times when in
twenty-six states of this union women are allowed
to vote on some questions, and almost every day
brings news of some victory for woman in the 
direction of progress, what may not be expected
and what will be the ultimatim? It will be
equality before the law, and that will bring about 
many radical changes for the better, and woman’s
place will be by the side of man, his counselor,
his helpmeet, his companion, as much in the
political as in the social world.
	The day is hastening on, and although the
women of Utah may deem the time afar off be-
cause of the peculiar conditions existing here,
yet in the time when “a nation shall be born in a
day” what may not transpire in other respects?
There is something important expected of woman
in this day, or she would not have wakened to
the conflict and felt the need of pushing forward
to the issue, as it is manifest she has done. So
we conclude there is special work for women, and
their best efforts must be brought into exercise to
[Column 3]
accomplish it. This spirit to educate the masses
to the idea that a few have received, as it were by
revelation, is fast gaining ground; slowly and 
surely the seed is being sown and the harvest
will be a surprise to those of little faith.
	Meantime women should work diligently, and
silently if necessary, to prepare themselves for
the issues at hand whether local or national, and
seek to comprehend the great questions that are
agitating the political world. Many women are 
ignorant of the simplest laws relating to their own 
individual rights and the rights of property.
Somebody brings them a paper to sign asks them
for their signature, and even without reading the
article or agreement and regardless of the conse-
quences the pen is taken and the name written,
when perhaps by simply witholding the signature,
the most serious consequences might have been 
averted.
	This is not an idle tale but a stern reality, a 
stubborn fact. Women do not look into these
matters as they should, the writer knows of an 
instance where the husband and father of a family
when on “a drunken spree” sold the cow one day
and the next day the home; the wife was sitting
milking the cow when the man who had bought
her came to take her away and she was utterly 
powerless to prevent it; the next day, men came 
to tell her that she must leave the house, they 
had bought and paid for it, she remonstrated, but
to no purpose, and before that man (husband and 
father) had come to his senses again, the wife and 
children were homeless; in the state where this 
circumstance transpired the law has been materi-
ally changed through the intercession and peti-
tioning of woman suffragists. And yet with
these facts staring them in the face, women will
say, they do not want the ballot, they are willing
to leave such matters in the hands of men.
Whenever we hear women reason thus, we know
that they are ignorant of the conditions of women
at home and abroad; such women should be edu-
cated if possible in that which pertains to the
social and moral well-being of womankind, and
they would then see the actual necessity that
exists for woman’s help in the great stride that is
being made to advance in the scale of human 
progression.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society  Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden City
on Thursday, June 18, Pres. Jane S. Richards
presiding. Apostle F. D. Richards was present
and addressed the meeting in a very interesting
manner.
	The news from Canada of a little son born to
Mrs. Zina Y. Card on the 9th of June will be very
gratifying to the relatives and friends of her
mother Pres. Zina D. H. Young, who left here on 
the 13th of May last, to visit her daughter in her
Northern home. Mrs. Young arrived there on
the 19th of May, she will very likely spend the
summer months in that delightful climate, and re-
turn home in time to make some visits to organi-
zations outside Salt Lake, who are looking for-
ward to her coming previous to the October Con-
ference. Meantime the sisters everywhere will
be glad to know that she is well, and sends her
love and blessing to them all.
	On Monday afternoon June 15th, the Relief
Society of the 16th Ward of this city held its
annual meeting in the Ward meeting house, Mrs.
Diana Reid presiding. There were present as 
visitors, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs Jane S. Richards and the writer,also Bishop
Kesler. Brief remarks were made by each of the
visitors, the President Mrs. Reid, and others
upon subjects of special interest to the Society
and after the close of the meeting the officers and


[Column 1]

﻿their visitors repaired to the residence of the Presi-
dent, where they found preparations for supper—
the tables profusely decorated with lovely flowers
and the large dishes of cherries and strawberries
added to the fine appearance of the tables and the
fragrance of the feast of good things. It was
a happy occasion and one long to be remembered
from the interchange of thoughts and senti-
ments.
	The Western Association of writers have sent
us a very polite invitation to be present and par-
ticipate in the literary and social enjoyments of 
their Sixth Annual meeting to be held at Warsaw,
Ind. At this meeting a large number of important
questions are to be discussed by some of the
ablest scholars and thinkers in the country. A
choice miscellany, literary, musical and elocu-
tionary will add to the interest of the occasion
supplemented by numerous pleasure excursions,
boating, sailing etc. The Convention will be
held at Warsaw, Ind., with a Reception at Eagle
Lake Hotel on Monday evening July 6th, and
close with a Banquet on Friday evening July l0th.
Daily sessions will be held at the Tabernacle, 
Spring Fountain Park, with one day’s session in
the Pavilion at Lakeside Park. Each afternoon
will be devoted to rest and recreation and it will
doubtless be a delightful week at this summer
gathering, and for "literary fellowship.” 
	The Agricultural College established at Logan
is in a flourishing condition, and especially so
considering the short time it has been in active
operation. It is as stated in the Annual,"an edu-
cational departure,’’and what would formerly have
been considered an absurdity to actually teach
farming as a science but it has come to this.
"First and prominently it will teach such branches
of learning as relate to agriculture and the
mechanic arts.” Fancy some of the old farmers in
New England a century ago being told how to
farm from books or newspapers? How indignant
they would have been and yet it has come to pass.
It is the fashion, the custom of the day in fact, the
world has come to this understanding of doing
things in order and in the season thereof. There
is much interesting reading matter in the Annual,
and we noticed with much satisfaction the follow-
ing clause, "The young women of the Territory
attending the College will be put on an equal
footing with the young men for obtaining a special
education for their sphere of life.” Judging from
the pamphlet issued for 1891 and 1892, it would
seem that the look out for the future is hopeful
and its success pretty well assured. It is certainly
a great blessing to have a college for agricultural
purposes and pursuits in a Territory depending
so much upon the tilling of the soil for the sus-
tenance of life.
	Tuesday, June 16th, the Relief Society of the
22nd Ward held an annual meeting, the second
since the organization, in the new and handsome 
Ward meeting house, to which the Relief Society
has contributed generously. Mrs. Rachel Whipple
presided; she was formerly President of the 19th
Ward, which included both wards now known as
19th and 22nd, but as population increased and
spread out over a wider district of country, it be-
came necessary to divide into two wards. The
house is very handsomely finished inside as well
as out and at this meeting the sisters had brought,
several handsome bouquets of flowers, that al-
ways add to the attractiveness of any assembly
or gathering. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Stevenson and the writer were
visitors on this occasion, and each made a short
speech, dwelling upon the significance of the
times and the position of woman, the training of
children, and the need of faith and a testimony of
the Latterday work.  After the meeting there was
a sort of banquet at the residence of Mrs. M. L.
Nebeker one of Mrs. Whipple’s Counselors,where
all the active members of the Society were in-

[Column 2]
vited as also the visitors. The tables were loaded
with good things and fruits and flowers in abun-
dance added to the enjoyment, of the repast. At
Mrs. Nebeker’s we found Mrs. H. D. Brinton
and Mrs. Lorena Nebeker old friends of former
times, who are both now very feeble, but in good
spirits and rejoicing in the Gospel. These
reunions are productive of good feeling,and often
bring together those who seldom meet except on
such rare occasions, because of the busy life of
women nowadays, and various duties that occupy
their time and attention to the exclusion of social
entertainments.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿OLD FOLKS’ RED LETTER DAY.
          
	The Rio Grande Western Railway with their
usual generosity gave free transportation to the
Old Folks to and from Springville for the annual
“outing,” and early Thursday morning June 18,
fourteen coaches and a baggage car decked with
the stars and stripes left the Denver depot en-
route for their destination. At the stations south
as far as Draper aged people were taken on the
train. The run to Springville was very smooth,
and a happier company was seldom if ever seen,
than were on board that train. The Committee
were kind and assiduous in their attentions to all
and the “Old Folks’ Choir," sung in each car for
the entertainment of the veterans, “The Con-
tinental Railway.” 
When the train reached Springville there was
a most inspiring sight greeted these aged people;
the crowds of happy faces both of children and
grown people with cheers of welcome, and the
Springville band playing national airs to welcome
and honor their aged visitors. The walk to the
grove was strewn with new mown hay, a most 
delightful aroma, and there was an archway at
the entrance, decorated with bunting and ever-
greens with the words “Veterans Welcome.” On
thp right of the path were the young men and
maidens in line, dressed for the occasion with red
white and blue turbans the same color of rosettes
or floating ribbons on the right arm, they made
quite a pretty showing and behind them were the
tables tastefully laid out and ornamented with
flowers, in rich profusion, fairly “groaning with
the weight of the feast.”
 Packard’s Grove where the company assembled
is a delightful place, beautifully shaded with the
soft graceful foliage of the tall and handsome
trees, and everything had been made ready for
the comfort and convenience of the assembly. A
stand with a large and commodious platform and
seats, sufficient for the purpose, where very soon
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Bishop W. B. Preston, Presidents
Jacob Gates and George Reynolds of the Seven-
ties, and Presidents Angus M. Cannon, Joseph E.
Taylor, and Charles W. Penrose of the Salt Lake
Stake, also Pres. A. O. Smoot of the Utah Stake
and Bishop Packard of Springville with quite a
number of ladies, committee, choir, and reporters
were seated. The stand was draped with the
stars and stripes and streamers floating in the
breeze. There were hanging around mottoes of
the differents states with the date of their admis-
sion into the union.
	The exercises, conducted by Don C. Johnson
begun with patriotic music by the band, after
which the Springville choir sang,
SPRINGVILLE'S SONG OF WELCOME 

To the Veterans Visiting us June 18th, 1891.

	Tune—“Mandor.”
Vet’rans here we gladly greet you,
Welcome to our lovely town, 
We will try to entertain you  
With the very best we own.

You deserve consideration,
We make no partition w'all,

[Column 2]

And we wish on this occasion
Pure goodwill to show to all.
 
Gratefully we all remember 
  Honors that to you we owe,
You have passed the life’s December
 And our love we wish to show.

We would so reveal affection,
 While you stay with us today,
That from mutual recollection
It may never fade away.
 
When our mortal lives are ended, 
 When we pass to other spheres,
May our pleasure be extended
 Through unending happy years.
	WILLIAM CLEGG.
Prayer was offered by the chaplain, Bishop  
Packard.
	Hon. F. C. Boyer delivered an address of wel-
come; in which he praised the originators of the
movement and congratulated the visitors on the 
great harmony that existed even though there
were differences of views and opinions among 
them. He also read a welcome in verse written
by Lucretia H. Mower an aged lady of Spring-
ville.
	Pres. Geo.Q. Cannon who was called upon to re-
spond to the address of welcome, in the course of 
his remarks said that the honor paid to old age 
was a test of the civilization of a people an evi-
dence of their advancement. Expressed his 
pleasure in seeing religious and political differ-
ences banished for the time and all meeting as 
members of the great human family. Thought it
would indeed be a red letter day to the people of
Springville as well as the Old Folks, invoked
upon the assembly the blessing of heaven. 
Mrs. Lillie Boyer Gleason sang “Bring Back
the Old Folks,” she has a fine voice and excellent 
expression, her singing was very sweet and en-
joyable. The following address was then de-
livered by Mrs. Geo. E. Andersen, the lady has 
a full clear voice and forcible in tone and man
ner.
THE OLD FOLKS
	What memories cluster around this hallowed
name; the names of parents now with  us and
those departed to a better land ! They always
have the warmest corner in our hearts, the holiest
shrine in our memories.
	Our old folks, whom we honor today, from the
septuagenarian to those hoary locks crowned
with the star of a hundred years, where else upon
the broad earth can such a sight be witnessed?
Veterans from every clime,patriots from all lands,
here seated beneath the cool shade of Utah’s 
verdure, swept by the vivifying breezes from 
Utah’s grand mountains, bending above us the 
bluest of blue skies. Here co-mingling with each
other, is seen the type of many nationalities; the
sturdy Briton, who first saw the blue Albion vales 
the land of Shakespeare, Hampden and Crom-
well, coursing in their veins is the blood of the
Plantagenets, they have brought to our glorious 
America, and infused into our blood, that liberty
loving spirit so prevalent in the breasts of loyal
Americans. Some present here today first
breathed the air in bonnie Scotland, the land of
Scott, Livingstone and Burns, the home of the
blue bell and heather. Natives of Scandinavia
swell the ranks of our Old Folks’ party today,
the freedom loving spirit of the old Norsemen
burning in their veins; Denmark’s low sea girt
isle furnishes of her sons and daughters to make
up the numbers of our Old Folks’ jubilee. The
sons from the “ould sod” swell our numbers in
honor of this jubilee.
	Sunny France, classic Italy, romantic Spain
and many other nationalities are represented by
the Silver Grey veterans before us, honored
by all. We feel proud to do you honor; we look
to you as pioneers of human progress; it was


[Column 1]

﻿that spirit of liberty that brought you to our shores;
you have been upon the borders of civilization
most of your lives; to your efforts we owe our
grand mountain home; to you is due the credit
for the homes we enjoy. You who are crowned
with the star of a hundred years are almost as
old as that glorious flag which waves over our
heads. Today many of you can remember when
but thirteen stars graced its tri-colored folds, but
now it bears proudly forty-four stars, each repre-
senting a sovereign State; her colors stream
proudly in every clime, it is respected by all
nations; from Alaska’s ice bound shores to the
southern land of flowers it waves majestically
over a people free, independent and progressive.
Upon every sea it waves a token of free men, free
women and free institutions. From the Arctic
sea to the land of the southern cross, America’s
shipping, displays the Stars and Stripes. It is
flung free to every breeze and is emblazoned upon 
the crest of every surging billow. All of you are
older than the railway train which moves like a
rolling palace on its steel causeway, bringing you
in luxuriant comfort and ease to us today. All
of you have seen the old crooked snath, with its
two nibs and five fingers, give  place to that
chariot of progress, the mowing machine. In
your time the old hand loom has yielded to the
power fabricators of modern science, the flail and
threshing floor of scriptural times to the grand
steps of modern improvement. You have seen the
birch canoe and flat boat fade before the head-
light of the steamboat. In your day the Indian
trail and old emigrant road have been obliterated
by the railway track; the grassy plains for 2000
miles are transformed into fields and orchards,
cities and towns; and to you we give thanks for
these changes. May the residue of your lives be
one continual jubilee, and such a jubilee as only
your descendants know how to give. And when
you make your exit behind the curtain which
separates us from our veteran fathers and mothers
who have gone before, tell them of us and our
work, and determination to walk in the paths of
honor, truth and patriotism which they marked
out for us,—that when we have arrived at the
silver period of our existence we may be counted
worthy to be numbered with the Old Folks.
	The Old Folks, our Old Folks-dear
	We greet you all with kindly cheer,
	Our vales and mountains honor thee;
	To your grey hairs we bow the knee
	The only sovereigns to whom we bow
	We render willingly homage now,
	To Old Folks all we vote three cheers,
	And the honored crown of a hundred years.
			P. C. J.
	Music by the brass band followed the address
and Elder George Goddard made one of his
characteristic speeches and presented the oldest
veteran present, Father J. B. Lewis of this City,
aged 95, who was given three cheers by the as-
sembly. Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas rendered in
her own sweet way “The Old Folks at Home,”
she always charms with her melodious strains.
Dinner was next announced, and a sumptuous
banquet it was indeed; the good people of Spring-
ville were most generous in their hospitality, and
there seemed no lack of variety or abundance.
The handsome young people who served the
company were specially attentive and under the
delightful shade of the waving boughs, it was a
picture for an artist. The clouds rolled up and
thunder was heard in the distance and a soft
gentle rain began to fall, but it soon passed over
and the sun shone out again.
	After returning to the grove the band played
some lively airs and Moses Johnson recited a
humorous selection “The Old Tiner.” Elder W.
C. Dunbar whose singing always pleases every-
body,rendered the song written expressly for the
occasion by Elder Henry W. Naisbett, the choir
joining in the chorus:

[Column 2]

	For many a year now passed away,
		We've had this glorious treat.
	To spend with friends a summer’s day
		And glad each other meet!
	From quiet homes, not often left
		Because of weary years,
	By car or team and reil, so kept,
		That smiles oft turn to tears!
				CHORUS.
	Here's three-score ten and four-score years,
		Beyond this, quite a few,
	Who all enjoy their annual out,
		And thank their friends so true!

	We've Governors had and Judges too,
		As year by year hath fled;
	The Utah Centeral, U. P. now,
		in this good work long led;
	To-day upon the Rio Grande
		We take this looked-for spin;
	God bless this fresh and liberal hand,
		Which thus our hearts could win!–[Chorus; 
	Our Committee have toiled and tried,
		In every needed way
	To make our long or shorter ride,
		A grand high holiday!
	Their faces and their voices speak.
		In sympathetic tone.
	They're brethren, sisters for they seek
		The aged and the lone!—[Chorus.

	Then presents we have had, galore,
		From many a thoughtful hand,
	Who vied in giving, more and more
		Than Old Folks e’en could stand,
	Without a heartfelt prayer to God
		That such may e’er be blest
	With plenty on the earth's green sod,
		And then with Heaven’s own rest.—[Chorus.

	Since first the Old Folks found good friends,
		To give their time and means,
	'Tis deemed that neighbor love extends,
		Which everywhere redeems!
	And many a tired and patient soul
		Who at the first came out,
	Has reached the other shore, the goal
		With glad triumphant shout!—[Chorus

	We’re passing on with stumbling feet,
		Our ranks are breaking down. 
	New faces—badges hence will greet
		And wear the Old Folks’crown.
	They’ll have their friends, as we have had,
		While soul in Utah stirs;
	Her towns in rivalry make glad,
		These special guests of hers!

	Song hath its charm, and oft our choir  
		Have sung the old songs o'er;
	Now we can catch the same true fire,
		And join as ne'er before;
	God bless each one who lends a hand,
		To make this well known day.
	And when they’re old; may thousands stand
		With welcome and hurrahl—[Chorus.

	Brother Goddard and the Old Folks’ choir sang
“Hard Times,” and Bishop W. B. Preston ad-
dressed the old folks in a particularly happy man-
ner. The committee distributed some gifts, with
which they are always well supplied on such oc-
casions by the liberality of the public, to the aged
people of Springville. Brother C. R. Savage
held up a band-box and called out for an old
lady who had not had a new bonnot for ten years
but did not find one, then for five years etc., and
then for one who had to wash for her living, and
no one replied, so he presented the bonnet to the
old lady who had composed the poem that was
read in the morning— Lucretia H. Mower. Philo
Dibble, aged 85 well known in Mormon history
from having been shot through the body in the
times of the early persecutions of the Church,
was given a nice arm chair, also Sarah Parrish,
80; Matilda Streeper, 87; Hannah Shepherd, 78;
these were all invalids, and Anna E. Harper, 75;
dress patterns, fancy baskets with contents, china
ware, gloves, and collars, were given to other old
ladies of Springville; and canes, slippers, etc., to

[Column 3]

the gentlemen: Hannah M. Dibble, 82; James
M. Peirce, 77; Neman Bulkley, 74; Andrew
Larsen, 73; Eliza A. Mendenhall, 81; Hailey P
Averett, 76; Noah Packard, 80; Polly P. Childs, 
76; Orson Hulett, 76; Tobias Dallen, 85; Abram
Taylor, 73; Hannah Harrison, 73; James Wis-
combe, 76; Ann Bramall, 70; Charles Avery, 72;
Mary Ann Rayland, 82; Eliza Devenish, 72;
Agustus Cox, 74; Ann D. Bringhurst, 70; Lausen
Roundy, 73; Mary Snelson, 73; Mary A. Doug-
lass, 78; Rachel Spafford, 85; Martha Stephen-
son, 77; William Cranmer, 77; Jeduthan Averett,
75; Jacob McCurdy, 73; Eliza Deal, 75; Lucretia
H. Mower, 72; Benjamin W. Brindle, 73; Sarah
Brindle, 70; Mary A. Herbert, 73; Jacob Houtz,
76; Wm. Mendenhall, 76; Sarah L. Mendenhall
73; Harriet Kindred, 74; Wm. Giles, 70; Ann
Giles, 70; Margaret Parrish, 82; Cyrus Sanford,
76; Richard Bird, 70; Catherine Boyer, 74;
Edward Pentington, 71; Elizabeth Whiting, 77;
James Chadwick, 81; Cerina Johnson, 70; Hila
Nelson, 74; Joseph Allen, 73; Mary Ann Full-
mer, 75; Solomon Johnson, 74; Caroline John-
son, 71; Shephard Hutchings, 73; John Hatfield,
72; Jane James, 76; Hyrum W. Clark, 72. The
announcement was made by the Committee, that
the presents would be given to the aged people on
the train as they were returning home.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke a short time,
he stated that in all his extensive travels he had never seen an assembly that impressed him so
forcibly and pleasantly, or made him feel better
than this assembly. He felt thankful that we
were alive and had been strengthened to endure
the vicissitudes through which we had passed,
and had been able to redeem this desert land, and
make it blossom as the rose.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke with reverential feeling
of the aged veterans and felt to appreciate the re-
spect shown to the Old Folks by the citizens of
Springville. The President is himself 84 years
of age, and so well preserved, that he shows none
of the signs of old age, either in his appearance,
his voice, or his walk, he walks as erect and firm
as a young man. There are few men in the world
at his age could speak as well, in fact there are
very few young men that can be heard so clearly
and distinctly in the large tabernacle, or in an
outdoor meeting as he can.
	Elder W. C. Dunbar amused the assembly very
much by playing his Scotch bag pipes. Brother
Goddard who has a remarkably clear voice for his
age sang “Maggie’s by my Side.” Elder C. R.
Savage spoke in his usual happy style, thanking
the Springville people and calling the place, the
Old Folks’ banner town, he thought the reception
surpassed any heretofore accorded the old folks.
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Packard, of Springville and the company began
to disperse, many going to the cars; others im-
proving the opportunity in conversing with old
friends, etc. The committee who had charge of
the affair at Springville were Nephi Packard, H.
M. Dougall, Don, C. Johnson, L.D. Franton and
F.C. Boyer.
	Elder Jacob Gates, now senior President of the
Seventies,stated that it was the anniversary of his
baptism into the Church, fifty-seven years before,
at St. Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., VL, by Elder
Orson Pratt, and that he was confirmed on the
same day by Orson Pratt and Zerubbabel Snow,
better known as Judge Snow. Brother Gates is
now over 80, hale and hearty, traveling and
preaching among the seventies, most of his
time.
	On the trip homeward there was more singing
by the Old Folks’ choir, more lemonade cakes,
candies, and oranges distributed, and suitable
presents given to all the Salt Lake Co., old folks,
and every one seemed pleased and satisfied with the
day;nothing having occurred to mar the enjoyment
of the happy occasion. The management of the
train was perfect, and the coaches were the finest


the old folks have ever had. The officials of the
Denver and Rio Grande Western Railway de-
serve special praise for their generosity, con-
sideration and attention. The Committee con-
sisting of Presiding Bishop Preston, Elders
Geo. Goddard, C. R. Savage, Wm. Eddington,
Wm. Naylor, W. L. Binder, John Kirkman and
Bishop Nelson A. Empey did everything possible
for the old folks and watched over them constantly
with tenderness and untiring vigilance.
	There were about nine hundred people on the
train, of these there were of those from 70- to 80-
235 men and 280 women, total 515; from 80 to 90,
42 men and 33 women, total 75; from 90 to 95,
there were four men and no women making in all
a total of 594; this does not include those in
Springville or Utah Co. Altogether it is a very
pleasant thing to be able once or twice a year to
bring together so many of those whose lives are
more or less lonely and monotonous; the care
and the happiness, of those who are descending
the hill of life ought to be considered, and this is
a beautiful custom inaugurated by this committee;
Brother Savage was the good angel who first
originated the idea which has been so well de-
veloped and perpetuated and has resulted in so
much enjoyment for this class of citizens for the
last sixteen years. All honor to the old folks and
to those who contribute to their happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN INTERESTING PARTY.

	Thursday evening June 4, a very pleasant
party of ladies and gentlemen gathered at the
hospitable residence of Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Eardley.  The affair was in the hands of a
committee who must have been very efficient
to make it such a complete success.  The en-
tertainment was of a most interesting character
throughout; refreshments of various kinds of
delicacies were tastefully served; conversation
brilliant and humorous; and later on vaired by
music and recitations; the singing of Mrs. Lizzie
Felt awakened tenderest emotions, her voice is
rich, clear and sympathetic.  Mrs.  Susie
Talmage recited "Only a Girl" most feelingly,
she has a sweet voice and pleasing address.
Mrs. Nellie Colebrook well and favorably
known on the Salt Lake stage, gave some
charming renditions of favorite poems, show-
ing well her dramatic power.  Brief speeches
on the present political situation etc., were
made by Apostle John W. Taylor, Counselor
Joseph E. Taylor, Elder B. H. Roberts and
Dr. C. F. Wilcox.  Altogether it was a charm-
ing entertainment and a credit to the Com-
mittee, of whom we believe Dr.  Maggie C.
Shipp was the able Chairman.  Among the
guests present were Bishop Samuel Woolley
and wife, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, D. E.
S. Barney, Rodney Badger and wife, and
others, perhaps fifty in all.	
						E. B. W.


[Column 1]

﻿R.S. REPORTS.

HYRUM.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Report of the 23rd anniversary of the Re-
lief Society of Hyrum, Cache Stake; meeting
convented at 10 a.m. on the 9th of May.
President E. Liljenquist presiding.
	Sister A. Barber, Pres. R. S. Cache Stake,
Sister Thatcher and M. E. Cook favored us
with their presence, also Pres. Molen, Bishop
Wright and counselors.  After the usual ex-
ercises,  Pres.  Liljenquist addressed the con-
gregation, “I have presided over this branch
of the Society for 21 years.  I love to work
with my sisters, it has been a great pleasure to
me, but my health is poor and the spirit tells 
me my work is accepted, and I wish to resign,
I hope you will kindly release me.”

[Column 2]
Bishop J. F. Wright, replied, “Sister Lil-
jenquist is advanced in years, we appreciate
her labors, she has been a friend to the poor.”
Pres. Liljenquist was then honorably released.
	Coun Alice Unsworth was the next speaker
felt to work in the Society to the best of her
ability.  President Barber addressed the meet-
ing,‘‘I am pleased that Sister Liljenquist has
laid down the burden, as she is getting feeble;
she has been faithful and her labors will
never be blotted out.
	Sister M. E. Cook spoke very interestingly
on the laws of health,  Sister J. E. Molen
also spoke a short time, said Sister Liljenquist
has truly been a faithful worker in the Society.
Pres. S. M. Molen and Bishop Wright each
spoke to the sisters, exhorted them to sustain
the officers that should be chosen to preside
over them.
	Alice Unsworth was then nominated and
sustained as President by a unanimous vote,
with C. C. Hansen as first and H. A. Shaw as
second counselors.  Meeting adjourned,singing;
benediction by Coun. James Unsworth.
					H. M. NIELSON, Sec.

MESA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Mesa
Stake was held March 20th, 1891.  Opened
with prayer by Noah Brimhall.  Pres. Sarah
M. Pomeroy presiding, who said if we meet with
the proper spirit we shall be blessed and bene-
fited—take the step that lays open before us,
and another will be presented and so on till
our work is ended. 
Coun. M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
having till recently been Pres. of that branch,
she had taken great pleasure in her labors
therein, found the sisters faithful saints, had
visited with the sisters and found other wards
much the same.
	Sister Louisa Harper reported the Lehi
sisters as being faithful and willing to do all
the good they could, with a desire to improve
every opportunity for building up the kingdom
of God on the earth.
	Sister Lovina Brimhall reported the Nephi
Ward.   The saints there were in a scattered
condition but were trying to be one with other
organizations in bringing about the purposes
of the Almighty.
	Pres. Susan Savage said since the high
water they had had no Lamanites to their
meetings but previous to that time there had
been a good attendance.  Felt the loss of their
faithful co-laborer, Thankful Harmon, but felt
to submit to the decree of the Almighty, said
she had been a faithful, energetic worker in
the Indian mission.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald felt rather depressed
having just returned from the funeral of Sister
Harmon whom she felt had had an especial
call in the Lamanite labor; thought it very
important we should teach our children to be
meeting goers.
	We had good speaking and teaching by
Coun. Sarah Ann Robson,  Addie Passey,
brothers E. Ellsworth; Brimhall and Stewart
also Bishop Wm. Passey.
	Sister Barbara Lang who had been chosen 
as President of the Mesa Ward spoke briefly.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke a short time upon
the duties and privileges of motherhood; ex-
horted the mothers to use the time well while
the children were around their knee in infancy,
to make lasting impressions upon them and
teach them to do right, because it is right, and
shun evil because it is evil.  Closing remarks
by Pres.  Sarah M. Pomeroy. Benediction by
E. Ellsworth, adjourned for three months.
 
BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in the
new tabernacle at Paris, May 30, and 31.

[Column 3]
there were present on the stand Stale Pres.
J. P. Linsdsey and Counselors Elszabeth
Collings and L. M. Hart, Pres Annie E.
Laker, Pres. Nancy E. Pugmire, also Counselor
J. S. Richards of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, Sister Sarah Jane Cannon,
Pres. Louie Felt of the P. A., Apostle F. D.
Richards, Pres. Wm. Budge, and Pres. J. H.
Hart.  Meeting commenced by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge Singing “Hail to the Prophet."  Roll
was called and minutes of the previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Stake Pres. of R. S., J. P. Lindsey, made a
few opening remarks, expressed her pleasure at
having the visitors from Salt Lake City with
us, and hoped we would all be greatly
benefited by their coming:  The branches of
Relief Society were reported as follows.
Paris first and second wards, Bloomington
St. Charles, Fish Haven, Ovid and Montpelier
all as being in good condition.  Coun. Jane S.
Richards was pleased to meet with the Sisters
of Bear Lake Stake under such favorable
circumstances.  Thought the first duty of the
Relief Society was to look after the poor and
sick and to be a comfort to one another in
times of trouble; said this is a progressive age,
the rising generation had a better chance for
improvement than the older ones had in their
day and ought to be qualified to fill the places
of trust and honor when we had passed away.
Thought it very necessary that the Relief
Society hold testimony meetings often.  Spoke
on various subjects in a kind motherly way
that will long be remembered.  Sister Cannon
made a few very encouraging remarks.
	Pres Wm. Budge esteemed it a great
privilege to meet with the sisters, had been
exceedingly well pleased with their remarks;
the words of the sisters were so kind they
should have an excellent effect and he hoped
they would reap the fruits of their good labors.
	Pres. Louie Felt had enjoyed the meeting
invited the parents and and all to attend the
Primary Conference, that they might see the
improvement the children were making. 
Stake Pres. J. P. Lindsey addressed the 
congregation for a short time, gave many
words of counsel and encouragement.  Felt
to thank the sisters for their visit and prayed
that the Lord would bless and protect them
on their journey home.  As Mrs.  Lottie
Price was unable to act as Cor. Sec’y any
longer,Miss Sylvia Broomhead was appointed
and sustained by unanimous vote to act in
that office.
	Apostle F. D. Richards thought the Relief
Society of great importance, realized they were
doing a great amount of good.  The statistical
and financial reports were then read.  Confer-
ence adjourned until Nov. Singing “0
Praise Ye the Lord.  Benediction by Apostle
F. D. Richards.
			LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec'y


PRIMARY FAIR, SOCIAL HALL.
	The Primary Fair of this Stake was held
in the Social Hall June 18, 19, and 20th,
under the direction of Ellen C. Clawson and
her Counselors. Several of the wards were
unrepresented, but of the Associations that
were represented there was a very good show-
ing of work. It was utterly impossible to
observe all the nice things even, but among
those that we did notice were of boy’s work,
Johnie H Boberg, Draper 9 years old,ladder,
rake and boot jack, Willie Turner South
Cotton Wood 13 years old, a puzzle rattle
cut in wood, also Geo. C. Brown, of the same
place, ladder and rake. Earl Cummings 13th
Ward this City, 3 brackets, Josiah Midgley 7th
Ward,13, tin bucket, Charlie Spencer 7 years
old, crochet covered ball, Stanley Partridge


[Column 1]

aged 15 years, doll settee and chairs cut wood-
work; Charles Madson 4th Ward, 13 years
old, small lounge made and upholstered; stone
work carving of letters, by Eddie aged 11 and
Elias Ashton aged 10, 15th Ward, Ray Jacobs
17th Ward 10 years old, paper weight and
penholders cut from cigar box and gilded very
tasteful; hearth rugs and woolen patchwork
by Ralph Grames 3rd Ward, aged 9 years,
bedstead for doll, Geo. J. Fox 14th Ward aged
13, a very complete miniature pile driver by
Johnie Bowers 7th Ward, he also melted the
lead and shaped it. Brackets and scroll work
Walter Wallace 7th Ward, 13 years old, Ray
Williams Mill Creek, double harrow 12 years
old, Forestdale in miniature by Alma
Bullock of the 16th Ward, 10 years old was
the most attractive piece of work made by any
of the little boys. It was perfect in ap-
pearance though very small, streets laid out,
shade trees, houses exact even to the sign and
advertising, the proportions were all good it
was made principally of pasteboard and painted
in imitation of Forestdale itself. It was quite
a novel idea. Lee Richards of the 20th ward
had a very handsome satin banner on exhibi-
tion, ornamental painting and letter-
ing, certainly very creditably done and
artistically finished off for a little boy. showing
considerable talent in this direction.
	The work of the little girls was in very
great variety and it is impossible to more than
give a passing notice to a few of the most
uoticable. One quite attractive little thing
was a large bunch of paper snowballs hanging
pendant so true to nature that several of the
visitors thought that they were real, these
were made by Chloe Hunter aged 9 years,
water lilies in waxwork, Annie Gundson aged
12 years, Ardelle Cummings aged 12, had
several specimens of drawn needle work that
were very pretty and quite creditable for a
child. Sophia Youngberg, Draper, aged 14
had some very fine plain hand sewing, work
on ribbon done in arasine very handsome and
fine work, Phronia Nelson Draper. aged 11
years, Gertrude Winder aged 13, handsome
lamp-mat made of ribbon fastened with cord
of chenille, May Gilbert banjo and mandolin
silk work, covered pasteboard, there were
very odd and quite pretty. Rhoda Miller,
Mill Creek, aged 10, babies bibs worked neatly,
Edna Jackson paper platting very nice aged
7, Olive Cushing 11th ward, 7 years old
woolen scarf crocheted. Louie Coulam 11th
ward 9 years old stocking darning very neat.
Sophia Youngberg aged 14, yarn' home spin-
ning, very fine, Evelina Youngberg 7 years old,
very fine darning. Fannie Coulam 11th ward
12 years, old cut fitted and made a dress waist
sewing very good, button holes well made.
Hannah Thatcher 9 years old, cut fitted and
made in goodstyle a doll's dress. Pearl Carlisle,
Mill Creek, 15 years old, large, heavy table cover
embroidered on felt in chenille, arasine,
riberdine. very elaborate in design and quite
elegant as a whole, showing talent, patience,
and neatness. Birdie Carlisle younger sister,
a table scarf handsomely embroidered. Belle
Weiler 4th ward, 13 years old a pretty apron
made by hand trimmed with novelty lace and
insertion done very neatly. Free hand draw-
ing by Alice Clawson 14 years old, these
copies and drawings showed considerable
talent; cross stitching on gingham by little
girls six and seven years old, horse shoe
watch case, covered and filled in with silk
filled and wound round with ribbon. This
was a very attractive article and as it hung
attracted considerable attention. Laura Jones
16th ward, large sofa cushion of silk, pieced
log-cabin pattern. Janette Pitt aged 9 years,
carriage robe, made of woolen pieces in form
of rosettes raised and worked in colors. Ella
Keyting 17 years old elegant silk banner,
ornamental, delicately painted and mounted.

[Column 2]

Table cover from the 17th ward Primary
intended for the Logan Temple, embroidered
in the four corners. Louie Groesbeck 12,
corner marguerites, Cathie Dougall sun-
flowers, Geneva Ellerbeck, poppies; Stella
Jacobs, fuchias, Alice Taylor 17th ward,
10 years old darning, mending, marking,
tucking, in fact of all kinds of needle work,
very good indeed. Ray Grant 13th ward,
handsome handkerchief case made when
eleven years old. Edith Dinwoody 7th ward,
aged 14, painting on China very well executed.
Ray Chamberlain 8th ward, 6 years old,
paper cutting kindergarten work very pretty.
Bessie Frost 8th ward, 13 years old, apron
hand sewing, neatly done, crochet trimming
fine and even. Eva Sheets 8th ward, 14
years old a handsome bunch of artificial
roses. Minnie Oakey, 8th ward, aged 12, 3
owls on a thorny branch very natural attracted
a great deal of notice.
	Bessie Binder [--]th ward, 13 years old, a
child's white dre[--] hand sewing with 23 tucks
all even and ne[--] stitches. Clara Hanson 7
years old croche[-] work: cream colored scrim
apron and croche very odd and pretty, pillow
shams worked in birds and snnflowers crochet
lace very deep, edged with colored floss to
correspond with the embroidery, sofa pillow
and head rest, embroidered with chenille and
arasine, in moss roses and pansies several
specimens of penmanship, and dozens and
scores of other things too numerous to mention.
Machine embroidery a swan in the water
among the rushes was quite pretty; this was
by Lutie Ashton 9 years old. There were
only two essays notwithstanding the call made
through the papers and the offer of a prize.
	There were some very well executed paint-
ings in oil by Kate V. Moris 15 years old, 15th
ward. The best was a copy of Conway
Castle in North Wales; Scene in the Yellow
stone Park painted when she was only 13
years old; Council Bluffs a copy from one of
Fred Pierce's paintings taken when she was
14. Two plaques painted in flowers, one of
roses, leaves just falling. and one of poppies;
also a larga piano cover painted quite
elaborately.
	In addition to these there were many other
things well deserving mention if our space
would permit, besides cooking of an excellent
quality and in great variety. The Fair
was a success in every respect and the children
deserve great credit.
			E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Martha D. Lincoln, of Washington
D. C., better known as "Bessie Beech," be-
gan her literary work at sixteen, contribut-
ing to the Morning Star of Dover for several
years. Since then, she has been a contributor,
correspondent and reporter for many papers.
For several years past she has been engaged
on "Central Figures in Science," a book now
nearly finished. If she ever makes a collec-
tion of her "Beech Leaves,"they will cover al-
most every event of prominence in social life
at the capital for twenty years after the war.

	An effort will be made by influential
women in New York to send one of their
number to sit in court whenever a woman is
tried, in order to give her the protection that
women so much need under such circum-
stances. An official who was consulted said,
"But, ladies, you will hear much that will be
unfit for ladies to hear." After attending a
trial, one of the ladies said to him, "We
heard nothing unpleasant." "Oh," he said,
"of course not--when ladies are present." If
the presence of good women would purify the
atmosphere of our courts, it is a strong argu-
ment for having some motherly woman present
whenever an unprotected girl is to be tried.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	[Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Aramita
Ashton who departed this life Wednesday June 10th
1891.]
	Whereas;—Our Heavenly Father has in His infinite
wisdom removed from our midst our beloved sister
Aramita Lawrence Ashton, and whereas: her faithful
labors as a teacher in the Relief Society and Sabath
School, also the interest she manifested in the Young
Peoples Association, both by her presence, and wise
counsel, make it fitting that we record our appreciation of
her labors.
	Therefore be it resolved;—that we the officers and
members of the Lehi Relief Sobiety, do mourn her loss,
realizing that we have lost,a noble and benevolent sister,
her heart being always willing, and her hand ready to
help the poor and comfort the sick and afflicted.
	Resolved;—That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to
her bereaved husband and children, her aged mother, and
her sisters in their great affliction.
	Resolved;—That a copy of these resolutions be placed
on the records of the Relief Society, and a copy be sent
to the bereaved family, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
the Lehi Banner.
			M. A. STANDRING,
			KATE ALLDRED
			SARAH EVANS-
	[In behalf of the Lehi Relief Society.]


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONARY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order.  But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET, Opposite City Hall.

﻿R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
he country promptly respond to.
	DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

