VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1891.		NO. 2.


CONTENTS.
	The Old Garret—Aunt Em. Woman's Work at
Pocatello. A Little Girl's Letter—Hattie. The
Woman's National Council. A Sketch of the Life
of Orpha M. Everett—Emily B. Spencer. R. S.
Reports—Tooele—Salt Lake—Box Elder. W.
S. A. Salt Lake Co. Women Vitally Concerned.
A Jury of Women—Ex. Notes and News. Wo-
men Inventors—Ex.
	EDITORIAL:—Independence Day. Editorial
Notes. Judge Zane's Views. Character Recep-
tion—L. T. F. Interesting Visit to the Primary
Associations of Cache Stake—Lillie Freeze.
	POETRY:—July; The Year's Sweetheart—
Madeline S. Bridges. Love's Young Dream—
Emma P. Seabury. To a Friend—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. The Heroic Life—Sarah K. Bolton.
Love's Fate—M. B. Finch. Sunset—E. C. R.


JULY: THE YEAR'S SWEET HEART.

	All things beautiful love her:
		The butterflies light and fleet,
	The branches that bend above her,
		The mosses that kiss her feet;
	The ripening grain in the meadow,
		The birds, singing sweet and near,
	The opened flowers in the shadow,
		The brook, with its ripple clear;
	The bee in his clover sleeping,
		The locusts, that drone and whir,
	The rain from hills, down sweeping,
		And the clouds—are in love with her!
	For she, oh, the shy new-comer,
		So dear to the world, so dear!
	Is heart of the heart of summer.
		And sweetheart of all the eyar.

MADELINE S. BRIDGES, in Ladies' Home Journal.


For the Woman's Tribune.
	LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM.

	Oh the sweetest of life is love's young dream,
		No matter what gladness your hearts may know
		And wherever your wandering bark may go,
	It will oftenest drift with the winding stream,
		Where memory's beautiful rhythmic flow,
	Sings over and over the things that seem.

	Dream on, nor think there are waking hours.
		When all your sky may be overcast,
		The heaven born of our souls will last.
	We all have our April days and showers,
		But we have the sun when the cloud is passed
	And the sweet perfume of our withered flowers.

	Dream on, dream on, 'tis the sweetest dream
		That angels give. May so reverent be
		The morning's kiss to the future's sea,
	That the things that are, and the things that seem
		Shall blend in perfect accord. Ah, we
	Knowing nothing so sweet as love's young dream

			EMMA P. SEABURY.
	Denver, Col.


TO A FRIEND.

Like gentle showers to the barren earth,
	Or friendly voice to pilgrim feet astray;
Like some loved face to greet the weary eyes
	Long closed in fevered dreams, back to the day;
Thus came into my solitude so long and deep
	Thy kindly message, proving unforgot
My place within thy circle as of old,
	Where oh, so oft, my sheaf of dreams I brought.

Forgetting and forgotten, so it seemed—
	My days went by, each other like the last,
A monotone of duty drawn by faith;
	Life's lightest moments scattered down the past:


'Till weary grown with "hope so long deferred,"
	O'erweighed with cares that faster seemed to roll,
I strove no more, but silent sat alone—
	Then—through the silence thou didst call my soul.

Thou didst not call me forth to joyous throng.
	To join in festal pleasures or in mirth:
Not praise or honor waited for my steps,
	Too feeble were my works to earn such worth,
But—for my soul's own sake thou didst awake
	My weary halting in the path of life:
That I should labor further to upraise
	Some better mark to shine above its strife.

And through my weariness a thought did steal,
	(As echoes follow after song has died,)
Perhaps—the Master too hath not forgot
	His pilgrim faltering by the long way side.
Perhaps—thy voice an echo of His will
	That shall throw open wide the hidden way—
Arise my soul! once more take up thy staff,
	Nor let the rough grown paths thy steps delay.

			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July 5th, 1891.


THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old fashioned garret! Methinks I
hear some one say, rubbish! that's all there is
in the garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; al-
low me to tell you in the garret there is inspi-
ration for the muse, and for me there is
romance in the old NewEngland garret which
haunts me still, and

"Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
Fond memory brings the light,
	Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber"
in the selfsame garret where I played so
much when a child and I wrote my first,
poor verses, at eight years old, and where I
was continually making new discoveries of
old lace and ribbons for my dolls. There is
as much poetry in it as there is in the par-
lor, and more. Parlors are very prosy, prim
affairs, and one is always afraid of doing the
wrong thing in one of those old-fashioned
ones, that are never opened except on grand
occasions; and never, one might almost say,
for children. I remember parlor chairs with
their straight, upright backs, and funny, tall
legs, used to seem to stare at me. When a
little girl I crept in softly to take a peep
around; and I said then, and I maintain it
still, that I would never shut up the best
room in the whole house and make it
gloomy and dark, to be used only for com-
pany.
	But if there is anything more inspiring
than a musty old garret, it is spring time,
groves, meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods,
orchards and the like—nature's haunts; these
are all suggestive and poetical and especially
when the birds are singing their sweetest
notes in the tree tops, and the boughs nod-
ding and swaying, keeping a sort of irregular
time to the unwritten music of the songsters.
Ah, yes, apple-blossoms, they come with the
early spring, and if I am going to talk of
garrets, and old books, and antiquities
generally, and grandmothers, and old maids,
and love letters, I must shut out the scent of
lilacs, the violets and the pink and white ap-
ple-blossoms, with their dainty, subtle per-
fume, or I shall wander off into dreamland.

[Column 2]

I must confess that garrets are not so ex-
quisite or charming as these, but they have a
history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are any such old
houses standing now, as there were in the
country towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five
years ago, but the pictures of them, outside
and in, are fresh in my mind to-day. I am
very much afraid most of them are remodeled,
for this is a stylish age we are living in; but
when I was a little girl there were many such
romantic places, and each one of them had a
garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely ar-
ranged in dainty bits of beautiful things, and
she herself in such a funny gown, (not dresses
then, but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser.  It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely even fit her little
figure,but it was red and blue changeable silk,
bright and gay, heavy enough to stand alone,
and the short waist and shorter sleeves were
trimmed with very yellow lace, just ready to
drop in pieces with age. The child was a
quaint one, and the dress was queerer still—
but a spell seemed upon her, she was always
thoughtful, and at this particular time she
was also very pensive. I don't mind tell-
ing you a few of her thoughts. She might
almost be called visionary, for she seemed to
see the future all in a panorama, spread out
before her, very much as we who have lived
long, look back over the days that are past.
She had been rummaging more than usual,
and trying to rake up something fresh; and
she had succeeded, for away in the further-
most corner of the garret, from under the very
eaves of the house, she dragged out a budget
of old papers, tied in bundles. So sitting
upon a broken stool, in her silk and lace, she
began to investigate these old papers. First
of all, she soliloquized, I like old things that
are pretty and have a history, like old pic-
tures, and silks, and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about, and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe that I am a woman
and all that, but old papers like these are use-
less. I can't see what people save them for,
unless they are deeds, or records, or valuables
of that description, and those are always
locked up in desks, and some man carries the
key. Yes, some man, I wonder why women
don't? They have the keys of the parlor and
cellar and pantry, and the big chest of draw-
ers, where valuable linen is kept, but then I
suppose women have nothing to do with pa-
pers, and documents, and so on.
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much
I mustn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many,but I think I
won't, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by,her
sister came to look for her, and made her
take off all her finery and scolded her too
for getting herself so dusty and musty with


the old papers, and told her they were only
rubbish that  ought to be burnt, but (we'll
call her Rosabel) didn't think so, as she
went back day after day, until it was a
byword in the old home, that—Rosabel lived
in the garret. She didn't go there without
purpose though she left off playing with dolls
all of a sudden, and forgot to dress herself up
any more, but she remembered to leave the
window open to let in the sunshine and the
sweet scent of the lilacs and apple-blossoms,
and hour after hour she would sit so quietly
that the stillness was almost painful, and yet
no one must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be alone,
and needed the fresh perfume from outside; it
rested her, and helped  clothe her thoughts.
A little at a time the secret leaked out that
Rosabel actually thought she could write a
book. Was this very absurd? Folks seemed
to think so, and her mother, who was very
practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much hard work and study to be done
by way of preparation. That even her grand-
mother had studied hard,  and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions in-
to your head," she said to the child; "you
must go away to school and write composi-
tions and have them corrected, after a  long
time may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen,
all her glorious visions of fame were about
to be dispelled, for I will tell you another
secret now, her mother was strongminded,
and wanted her daughter to be a woman,
and not a sentimental wishy-washy novel
writer. I can't tell you all Rosabel's life his-
tory now, but some day I am almost certain
some little girl or woman, poking about the
musty old garret, will find that history in man-
uscript.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK AT POCATELLO.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister Wells: Many of our members
take your much valued paper. All take an
interest therein, and as we see reports in it
from different branches of the Relief Society,
we take the liberty of sending a little account
of some of our work here in Pocatello, espe-
cially of our first Fair which was held on Feb.
13th, and 14th. It was got up for the bene-
fit of our new meeting house which has been
constructed during the past year at an ex-
pense of over $1,800. And as all the
people here have to depend on daily wages
for all their means, it has been quite an un-
dertaking and we all had to cast in our mite.
The Relief Society members have also been
willing to cast in their mite. They have
given in the last half year $218,00 But I
was going to tell you of our Fair. Most of the
church members donated freely of their means
to the Fair of articles to be sold; and also
many of our outside friends donated liberally
and visited us during the Fair and we had a
very good turnout indeed. Our Fair con-
tained knitting, needle work, paintings,
crochet, plain sewing and all kinds of handi-
work well executed, as well as all kinds of
eatables which were served for lunch and sup-
per. We had good order and good music for
dancing parties in the evenings.
	I must tell you of our gold ring cake we
cut and sold it 25 cts. a piece, for which we
got $15. One of cur brethren found the ring.

[Column 2]

The cake was made by Bro. Stinger, the town
baker. This made a good deal of work for
the presiding officers and committee and they
all did their best; many of the articles were
sold and a few of the best articles were dis-
posed of in other ways.
	All the eatables that were left, were divided
among the poor.
	Our numbers are small in the Relief Society
but what there are they are very good and
come to their duties. Our meetings are very
interesting and we have many of our outside
friends visit us and they are paying strict atten-
tion to what is said; so I think that there is a
good mission being done here in this little
railroad town, which could not be done with-
out an organization. I often read in your
little paper of our Sisters from Salt Lake
visiting around in different places to cheer the
sister's up in their duties. It does us good to
hear this; but it would do us more good if they
would give us a call, and encourage us a little.
I was promised at one time that some of the
Salt Lake sisters would come and see us; and
we will wait with patience yet to see them.
	The Young Ladies and the Primary are
doing as well as can be expected for the few
there are and they all seem to take hold in
doing good in the Church and Kingdom,
which is a great and glorious thing, and I fear
we cannot fully appreciate the blessings which
are bestowed upon us.
	Myself and my oldest son have just been
back East as far as Omaha, Nebraska, where
I have two brothers living, which I had not
seen for over thirty years, and their families
have grown so large and most of the children
were those I had never seen before it was quite
a treat for us, to see the difference in crossing
the plains now and when I came with ox
teams in 1863. Omaha was very small then.
There has been great improvement made since
that time, as also along the plains. It is almost
all built up now; then there were no houses,
but now it looks beautiful.
	We had a good time with all the folks. They
all treated us well and with respect, which
they did not do in 1861, although they are
much against this gospel and cannot see the
truth, still they know the Bible almost by
heart; they are very religious and have their
morning and evening prayers, and ask the
blessing on their food, and give thanks after
eating as regular as the day comes; and
this was so everywhere we went; my brother
had a Bible which they have read so much
that it is perfectly worn out and in rags. But
still they won't believe it as it is; they would
have their babies baptized by sprinkling, and
when I showed them plainly what the Savior
says in St. Mark 16 chapter, 15 and 16 verses
in which he says, "Go ye into all the world,
and preach this Gospel and he that believes
and is baptized shall be saved," they
would have it that the Savior had done it
all; and that he had atoned for all their sins
they are doing every day; and would believe
that what He said on the cross that everything
was fulfilled meant the future as well. I had
a great deal of talk with them, but oh, how
darkened they are in their minds and would
not listen. Much could be said upon this
visit, more than would fill a book; but I hope
and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will work
upon their hearts, and all the honest in
heart that they may come to see the truth, and
I know there is many an honest heart yet to
come into this gospel. As the scripture say
that the field is wide, and the laborers are few,
so it is. There has never been a mission-
ary in that part of Nebraska, and it would
take a good worker, as they are all very reli-
gious and hard to deal with.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father, that
I have been worthy to be one who has been a
partaker of the great and glorious work, and

[Column 3]

am Thankful that the Lord has enabled me to
stand faithful to this time, and hope I shall
be able to stand fast to the end and be saved
with all the faithful which is my wish.
			R. POND, Prest. R. S.
			E. KOLHEPP Sec. R. S.
			E. STINGER Treas. R. S.
			MINNIE THOROGOOD,
			ESTHER GARNER,
			EMMA SPILMAN, 
Committee	TILLIE BECKETT
			ROSA ROUSCH,
			RASO BECK.
				Committee of Fair.
Pocatello, Idaho, June 22, 1891.


LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON.

		Basingstoke Hants.
	DEAR MRS. COLBY:
	I have been taking a vacation, down by
the sea shore for a month, reading novels and
looking at the ocean; talking to agreeable
people, playing chess and whist in the evening
—a mere society woman; banishing the
suffrage movement, and The Woman's Tribune
wholly from my thoughts!
	Bournemouth, where I have been, is one of
the loveliest sea side places in England. Here
in the grounds of St. Peter's church is a
beautiful new monument to the Shelley family,
where Mary Wolstonecraft and William
Godwin are buried. Their remains were
recently brought from St. Pancras church
yard, London. Here, too, are Mary Wolstone-
craft Shelley, and her son Percy Florence
Shelley, third Baronet. The sexton told us
there were a large number of people daily
visiting the grave of Mary Wolstonecraft.
Her great work "Vindication of the rights of
Women" has recently been republished with
an introduction by Mrs. Fawcett.
	Thus is this noble woman honored in her
death though so persecuted and ostracised in
her life.
	At Christ's church, six miles from Bourne-
mouth, is a beautiful bas-relief of Shelley, the
great poet, just lifted from the waters covered
with sea-weed, supported by the angel of
death. You remember he was drowned in the
Gulf of Spezzia. After reading Dowden's
biography of Shelley, my daughter and I sat
by the fire discussing the poor poet's checkered
life, late one night, pitying him in his
struggles and disappointments,and condemning
his father for his coldness and severity, when,
with a deep sigh Mrs. Blatch said, "poor
fellow, it was too bad after being in hot water
all his life, to die in cold water at last." She
did not see the comic aspect of her remark
nntil I burst out laughing, though the facts
were indeed sad enough for tears.
	I have just read Mrs. Besant's grand speech
in The Woman's Tribune. I am very sorry
that she could not stay longer in America.
The sad news of Madame Blavatsky's death
met her as returning. She was cremated
only the day before Mrs. Besant reached
Queenstown. I shall now apply my self to
"Rems" again to make room for the budgets.
Sincerely yours,
		—ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
	Woman's Tribune.


"The international Copyright Law enacted
by the last Congress, went into effect July 1st.
and in anticipation of it the governments of
Great Britain, France, Belgium and Switzer-
land signified to the United States govern-
ment, through the proper diplomatic channels,
their readiness to avail themselves of the faci-
lities offered by the new law to their citizens
for copyright here, by granting to American
authors equal privileges with their own citi-
zens."


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


THE HEROIC LIFE.

BY SARAH K. BOLTON.

I like the man who faces what he must
	With step triumphant and a heart of cheer,
	Who fights the daily battle without fear,
Sees his hopes fail, yet keeps unfaltering trust
That God is God—that, somehow, true and just
	His plans work out for mortals; not a tear
	Is shed when fortune, which the world holds dear,
Falls from his grasp; better, with love, a crust
Than living in dishonor, envies not
	Nor loses faith in man, but does his best,
Nor ever murmurs at his humbler lot,
	But with a smile and words of hope gives zest
To every toiler. He alone is great
Who by a life heroic conquers fate.
			Woman's Journal.


LOVE'S FATE.

MARY BAIRD FINCH.

As blossoms wake 'neath sun and rain
I heard you sing love's tender strain,
With all love's sweet delight of pain.

Then softly on my heart it fell,
The story you stooped low to tell
Like spring-time's dawning miracle.

'Twas years and years we had not met,
Where 'mid the prairie grasses wet
You brought the first pale violet.

And we had grown so wondrous wise
To guard love's secret with our eyes—
How soon love saw the yain disguise!

And while his love was on us laid
That kept us both as half afraid
Love knew us for a pair betrayed.

Love came and smiled—I turned away—
Maids do the same this very day
The while they question love's delay.

Love weeping grieves and cries, "too late,"
And tender pity mourns his fate,
Yet lower now swings heaven's gate.
			Woman's Tribune.


SUNSET.

'Tis sunset, o'er the Wasatch range
	The mellow sunlight falls,
The mountains take a fairer hue
	O’er their grim, rocky walls.

Fainter it grows and fainter yet
	The golden summer's sun—
Its rays are lost on yonder peak,—
	'Tis gone, the day is done.

Farewell O sunset! linger still
	On Mem'rys mountain height, 
And flood these valleys full of glow
	Ere comes the shadowy night!

Farewell O daytime! may the joys
	That thou hast brought to light
Still fold me in their soft embrace,
	I welcome thee O night!

Far among thy shadowy shapes
	I see the loved one's form,
I feel their soft breath on my cheek,
	Their hearts beat true and warm.

Hold them O nightshades here awhile,
	Nor let them from me flee,
I thank thee for these shades, for this
	O night, I welcome thee!

		E. C. R.


[Column 1]

A LITTLE GIRL'S LETTER.

	FREMONT, PIUTE Co., Utah, June 8, 1891.
Miss Eva Young:
	Dear Sister:—June came but not decked

[Column 2]

with roses, for she was accompanied by her
stately lover, chilly December. The summer
sun came blazing forth and the gallant prince
fled to his northern home. He must have left
the gates open in his hasty flight, for the wind
and those friendly little companions of his
summer hours (the gnats) have not been lack-
ing in quantity or quality since.
	Well, I've returned from my trip to the
"Sunny South," and according to promise will
give a brief account of the winter's travels.
My companions and I, were permitted to take
a journey over the great Western continent,
North and South America.
	We started late in Sept., visiting all the
states and their principal cities in the Union,
also all the places of renown, a few of
which I will mention. You will understand
that the whole of this journey was taken by
the aid of that great railraod, the human
mind.
	We first passed down Grand Canyon to Co-
lorado, through which the Col. river runs,
some places faster than the fastest R. R. train,
while on either side rise abruptly solid gra-
nite walls to the height of half a mile. Next
we visited the sugar maple and grass regions of
the New England and Middle Atlantic States.
The former contain the greatest number and
most important factories in the U. S. The
Merrimac, a river of New Eng. drives more
machinery than any other river of its size in
the world. The Middle Atlantic States have
the most extensive coal beds in North Ameri-
ca. They also produce petroleum or rock oil
and iron in great abundance. N. Y., the
Empire State, contains one tenth of the po-
pulation of the whole country. N. Y. City,
the metropolis of America, has a population of
1,206,299. In commercial importance it is
surpassed only by London, Eng.
	Pennsylvania produces the most coal, iron
and petroleum, and also ranks among the first
in dairy products.
	The dismal swamps lie between Virginia
and North Carolina. Nothing will decay in
these swamps. A body was found there a
few years ago in a perfect state of preserva-
tion. Perhaps the body of "the maid" or
"lover so true."
	The cotton fields of the Southern States and
the Orange Groves of Florida were of special
interest,but we failed to get any oranges, except
in our dreams.
	I, being a lover of nature, was especially in-
terested in the Mammoth caves of Kentucky.
They extend nine miles into the earth. To vi-
sit all parts requires 150 miles travel. There
are deep holes, natural domes, and lakes con-
taining eyeless fish.
	The Yellow Stone park of Wyoming, with
its numerous geysers and other natural won-
ders was very attractive.
	Our own Great Salt Lake, of which the
poet sings, is the only pure salt lake in the
world.
	What took my fancy more than all was the
beautiful Yosemite valley of the Sierra Neva-
da Mts. in California. With its gardens of wild
flowers, and beautiful water falls one of which
is the highest fall in the world, descending
1,500 feet which pours down over a granite
wall more than half a mile high, into the
Eden below. Here are boiling springs, mud
volcanoes, and the biggest trees in the world.
some being 2,000 years old, and so large that a
man can ride seventy-five feet through the
hollow trunk of one that has fallen to the
ground.
	This is only a review of what I've studied,
but I believe it is good practice for me; it
helps me to remember.
	Fond love to all, I'll write to auntie soon.
			HATTIE.


THE WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	The executive board of the Woman's
National Council met at Indianapolis, May 30th.
	A telegram was sent to the General
Assembly at Detroit asking that the Presby-
terian women be allowed a voice in the ratifi-
cation or rejection of the creed.
	Committees were appointed to ask that
women be admitted to the General Confer-
ence of the Methodist Episcopal church; to
ask the next triennial of Sunday-school
workers of the United States and Canada
that they be placed upon the committee on
Sunday-school lessons that they be placed
on the National Divorce Reform League; to
press upon the attention of the next and each
succeeding Congress the bill providing that
all government employees be paid equal wages
for equal work; and to invite the International
Council of Women to meet in Chicago during
the Columbian exposition in 1893. The
National Council will assume the entertain-
ment of all accredited foreign delegates. No
American delegates will be recieved into the
International Council, except from organiza-
tions that have become members of the
National Council of the United States.
	A committee was appointed to prepare a
symposium on dress, to be published under
the auspices of the National Council in
one of the popular magazines during the com-
ing year, and to report to the conference of
the executive board of the Council of May,
1892, its idea of a business dress for women,
accompanied by a model of the same.
	The corresponding secretary was authorized
to correspond with Marion Harland about a
stone to be placed in the monument to Mary
Washington, and to collect the money for the
same.
	The president was authorized to form a
committee to collect funds and secure plans
for the erection of a women's temple at
Glen Echo.


A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF ORPHA
M. EVERETT.

	Orpha M. Everett was born March 25,
1814 in Lodi, Cattaraugus Co. New York.
	When 22 years of age in 1889, she embraced
the Gospel, being baptized by Curtis E.
Bolton and confirmed by Parley P. Pratt.
	She was married to Addison Everett on the
16th of Feb. 1838 by Lucien R. Foster.
They were the first couple married in the New
York Branch of the Church.
	They came to Nauvoo in 1843, and with
the rest of the afflicted Saints left there for
an unknown wild.
	Her husband was one of the Pioneers and
therefore she drove, with the assistance of her
stepson 12, years old, her own team composed
of two yoke of oxen, across the plains in 1847.
	She has one daughter living. She has 13
grandchildren and 4 great grandchildren.
She taught school a large part of her life.
Her husband died January 12 1885,, and up
to that time they had been baptized for 5000,
of their dead, and endowed for 3000
	Since the death of her husbend she has still
labored faithfully for the dead, and at her
departure from this life to the spirit world on
the 3rd of April 1891, a host of friends and
relatives were ready to greet her.
	She was loved by those acquainted with her
and many of her former pupils visited her in
her last illness, and some of them bore her
from her house to the Tabernacle where the
funeral services were conducted.
	Honored and respected in her old age, she
was laid away to await the resurrection of the
just in the St. George Cemetery.
			EMILY B. SPENCER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1891.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The fourth of July 1891, has come and gone
with its usual amount of noise and parade all over
the great Republic that glories in the stars and
stripes, drums and fifes; in its lauded patriotism
and the freedom and advance of its civilization.
In only one small portion of this grand country is
there really political equality for the sex who
form one halt of the numerical strength of the
United States of America. In Wyoming alone
does equal rights for men and women mean one
and the same thing. Even this outlook is hopeful;
the day star has risen in the West, that is going
to light the world with its effulgence. Wyoming
can afford to celebrate joyfully on Independence
Day in honor of this independent state.
	Utah did her very best this year, to celebrate
this day of days for free America; in this city
there was parading, music and speeches. All
grievances were laid aside or forgotten, none but
the best of feelings prevailing, but the fates were
not over-propitious, for in the midst of the exer-
cises in Liberty Park, up rose a tremendous
thunder storm and the rain fell in torrents ac-
companied with hail and wind, and trees were
torn up by the roots and other damage done; the
elements for some reason were in great commo-
tion, and the fine apparel donned for the occasion
was sadly bedraggled, to say the least. However
there was no great harm done, only it put an end
to the fun and merriment for the time being.
	Ogden fared a little better in this respect; the
day was comparatively a fine one; the parade
there was quite gorgeous and the procession
elaborate. The exercises in Lester Park were
uninterrupted by storms of wind or rain and in
the evening there was a grand display of pyro-
technics at the Park, followed by dancing which
kept up until a late hour.
	Provo, Logan, Richfield and other large towns
and cities in the Territory celebrated in the ap-
proved style with bands of music, processions,
patriotic speeches, fine singing and all the essential
adjuncts, to make the day a festive and jolly oc-
casion, and to impress all, and especially the
children, with the importance of making it the
day of all days in the history of the country.
	Every child born on this side of the ocean doubt-
less is imbued more or less with pride in the victory
so appropriately perpetuated throughout the
Union, in the remembrance of the people, and a
positive enthusiasm is always inspired when the
band plays Yankee Doodle, the Star Spangled
Banner, or America, and yet withal there is still
something to be desired for this glorious land of
liberty; and until the time comes when women
as well as men enjoy political privileges there
will always be a hollowness and an uncertain
sound in the rejoicing on Independence Day.
	But when the time comes, as it assuredly will,


that women are accorded equal suffrage then
there will be a jubilee, the echo of which will
reverberate around the world. Until then woman
cannot truly celebrate her independence but
thousands will continue to work for the emanci-
pation of all women, which means the uplifting
and broadening of all humanity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball visited Lehi and
American Fork recently in the interest of the
Woman Suffrage movement, and attended meet-
ings of the association, speaking at both places.
	The Young Ladies' Associations in several of
the wards of the city have given strawberry festi-
vals of late, the object being for social and
friendly reunions, and also to gather means for
benevolent purposes, or towards books for their
libraries.
	In the article published in the last issue of the
EXPONENT entitled Memorial Day, when sum-
ming up the names of those in attendance, the
name of Julia C. Howe was accidentally omitted.
It should have been one of the first names men-
tioned, for she was a very intimate friend of Sister
Hannah T. King's.
	Enthusiastic and interesting political meetings
of citizens have been held in this City during the
last few weeks, and the agitation of the subject
of government and kindred topics thus brought
before the people will be educational to the
masses, and especially so to the young people
who have had little knowledge of the principles
of the national parties.
	The Relief Society of Farmer's Ward held a
meeting on Thursday July 9th, at the residence
of Mrs. Margaret Peart, Pres. Emma Woodruff
presiding. There were present as visitors Sisters
M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Howard, E. B. Wells and Dr. E. S. Barney.
Meeting opened with singing "How firm a founda-
tion." Prayer by Sister E. B. Wells; singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved after
which Pres. E. Woodruff made a few opening re-
marks and expressed her desire to hear from
Pres. Horne and the other visitors; brief ad-
dresses were made by Sisters Howard, Horne,
Kimball, Barney and Wells, upon subjects of
special interest to the sisters at the present time,
particularly the political situation, the advance-
ment of woman, her influence upon society, and
the need of being prepared to stand alone and re-
main true to the faith in the midst of trials.
Coun. S J Cannon made brief remarks express-
ing her appreciation of the good teachings the
sisters had given, and her own desire to improve
and do good. Pres. Emma Woodruff thanked
the sisters for their visit and the good instructions
that they had given, desiring to prove faithful unto
the end. Singing "O, say what is truth," etc.
Benediction by Sister Taylor. After the close of
the meeting refreshments were served to all
present, and social conversation indulged in for
about an hour, when the sisters separated, having
enjoyed a very pleasant meeting together.


[Column 1]

﻿JUDGE ZANE'S VIEWS.

	We sincerely hope and trust that this speech of
Judge Zane's will be read and widely circulated;
coming from a Judge holding the position that he
does and having such opportunities for knowing
the people of whom he speaks, his words should
have weight with the public.—EDITOR.
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Conven-
tion:
	Feeling an interest in the organization of

[Column 2]

national political parties in this Territory, I
stepped inside the door to see what you were do-
ing, not intending to make a speech. Since you
called on me, I will depart so far from the course
I have hitherto pursued as to say a few words be-
fore taking my seat. I will say, gentlemen, that
I am heartily in favor of this movement. [Great
applause.]
	Whenever I deem it to be my duty to speak
out on any subject, I do it. About nine months
ago when it was announced by the head of the
religious organization known as the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that he pro-
posed to obey the laws of his country, and ad-
vised all the members of that church to do like-
wise; and when the general conference repre-
senting the church, passed resolutions stating that
that advice was binding on its members, I chose
to believe it was in good faith. [Applause.] It
was just what I had been insisting that the or-
ganization ought to do, and after they did it, I do
not feel like turning around and saying that they
were not sincere. I have seen enough of them to
convince me that many of them, at least, had con-
victions—that they possessed consciences, by
which they were governed. I have seen them
pass man after man from this court-room to the
penitentiary rather than promise to obey the law.
And when the People's party, composed of mem-
bers of that church, through its committees an-
nounced that the People's party had disbanded,
and the announcement was acquiesced in, I
chose to take it in good faith.
	And when they stated that they proposed to
vote with one or the other of the two national
parties of the nation, that was right, and that the
public good so demanded, I chose to attribute
good motives to them.
	The People's party and the Liberal party of
this Territory have been organized with respect
to religion. It is a bad thing to have political
parties, in any country, organized with respect to
religious faith and worship. Since the Mormons
have abandoned polygamy and the People's party
has disbanded, there is nothing for a third party
to do but to pursue them on account of their re-
ligious beliefs. Their conduct, as the conduct
of the members of any church, may be defined as
crime and punished, if injurious to society. But
their beliefs cannot be so defined, prohibited and
punished. In abandoning polygamy and in dis-
solving the People's party the Mormons did right.
And they deserve credit for it, not censure and
abuse. In so doing, I give them credit for pat-
riotic and good motives. I went as far as the law
would allow in suppressing polygamy; but I dare
not invade the right of conscience. No earthly
power has a right to penetrate the human bosom
and eradicate from the soul of man its religious
beliefs. If that work can be done, it must be
performed by a power that is higher than any-
thing human.
	If any man in his worship does not act in-
jurious to society, by what authority may you or I
or all of us, stand between him and his God? If
we may pursue one man for his thoughts and be-
liefs, we may another. An individual may con-
trol his conduct, but he believes what he can.
The human intellect and conscience must be left
free. If we may suppress one church because of
the beliefs and the modes of worship of its mem-
bers, we may another, and whose religion will be
spared? The Constitution of the United States
declares that Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof. This is a cardinal principle
of our system of government, both national and
state. That being so, why organize political
parties with respect to religious beliefs or wor-
ship? Whenever government attempts to pro-
scribe men on account of their beliefs before they
have cropped out into human actions they at-
tempt that which belongs to a Power above us.


We must believe as we can—I may not believe
as my friend who sits here, but he may be as
honest as I am. We cannot believe just what we
want to, and to punish a man because he does not
believe just as we do is tyranny and oppression.
[Great applause.]
	In bygone ages despotic governments at-
tempted to invade the sacred domain of human
conscience, and in their attempts they have
reddened the path of the human race with the
blood of brave men. Political parties may be
organized with respect to actions and conduct,
but not merely for the purpose of suppressing
human thoughts and convictions.
	We cannot organize political parties with re-
spect to churches in this land—my friend says
there are one hundred and forty of them; I pre-
sume he has not got them all.—Governments
must be liberal enough to tolerate all religions.
We must not fetter the mind and conscience of
man—such proscription dwarfs the mind and be-
littles the conscience. I did not rise to make a
political speech—only to call attention to a prin-
ciple to which all parties that ought to exist
should conform. I call attention to the prin-
ciple because I think there is a disposition on the
part of some people to violate it.
	I believe that the Republican and Democratic
parties in this Territory should present their
principles to the people and invite them to unite
according to their convictions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHARACTER RECEPTION.

	A delightful literary and social entertainment
was given by Apostle Lorenzo and Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, at their residence in Brigham City, on
the occasion of their 20th wedding anniversary,
June 12th 1891.
	The house was wreathed in vines and roses
with the artistic skill for which the hostess is
noted, creating a charming effect. The scene was
one of refinement and beauty; the pleasure of the
company was marred only by the absence, through
force of circumstances surrounding us as a peo-
ple, of the honored Groom; but a slight recom-
pense was afforded in a beautiful and touching
conjoint address of welcome in verse from Brother
and Sister Snow read by their little daughter
Mabel, this being the first exercise on the deli-
cately printed programmes presented each guest
as a souvenir.
	The unique design of the entertainment re-
quired each guest to assume the character of
some noted person, author, actor, singer, musician
statesman, etc., according to ability, and present
some favorite production of the character per-
sonated. This character personage was intro-
duced by name and title and any failure to 
properly address during the evening was to be
punishable with a forfeit, which is always apt to
cause considerable merriment. Mrs. M. J. Snow
sustained the character Felicia Hemans. She was
attired in a charming costume of black velvet
and cream lace, and sang the author's immortal
"The Captive Knight" to which Sir Walter Scott
never tired of listening. Mr. A. H. Snow ap-
peared as "Bret Harte" and gave a fine rendition
of "John Burns of Gettysburg." Mrs. Lillie
Snow so well qualified to represent the beautiful
and interesting Mrs. Cleveland, read one of that
lady's favorite peoms "No sects in heaven." Mrs.
Lillie Freeze, as Ella Wheeler Wilcox,gave "The
Disappointed" one of that lady's sweetest poems.
An address "The sunshine of life," delivered by
Prof. J. F. Moench of Ogden recalling the
pleasant reminiscences of over twenty years
friendship was a bright gem, and his gifted wife
favored the company with a tender little poem
suited to the occasion. A recitation "The new
Church Organ," by Mrs. Mattie Horne Tingey,
created ripples of laughter. Pres. Rudger Claw-


son paid some bright tributes to the noble char-
acter of Apostle Snow while relating experiences
shared together when confined in the Utah Peni-
tentiary for conscience sake.
	The very sweet singing of Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Jenson, Mrs. H. J. Snow, Ettie Madsen and the
excellent instrumental selections by Miss Amelia
Ghrael, Maye Taylor and Miss Aggie Campbell,
completed a highly intellectual entertainment,
after which an elegant repast suited to the sea-
son with a bountiful supply of strawberries, was
enjoyed with lively social conversation. A com-
plimentary serenade by the Brigham City band
was tendered the respected entertainers at their
separate places of abode, and altogether the new
social venture was a success to be long re-
membered with pleasure by those participating.
			L. T. F.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING VISIT TO THE PRIMARY
ASSOCIATIONS OF CACHE STAKE.

	Accepting the duty of visiting the Primary
District Conferences 6 in number, of the above
named Stake in place of Pres. Louie B. Felt of
the Central Board who was prevented from filling
the engagement previously made with Stake Pres.
Jane F. Molen, we arrived in Logan June 13,1891, in
time to attend the afternoon session of the Logan
district conference held in the 4th Ward meeting
house owing to the Tabernacle undergoing repairs.
comprising the 7 wards of that place, also Provi-
dence and Greenville; the house was crowded
with parents and children—encouraged by the
presence and teaching of Stake Pres. Orsen
Smith and Coun. Isaac Smith.
	The programme was well rendered by the child-
ren in clear, distinct tones, natural emphasis, and
where required, with true dramatic effect. We
would love to mention many exercises worthy of
special notice but as upwards of one hundred and
twenty-five, all worthy of praise were rendered
during our visit, it would be impossible to make
distinctions, so we will only note some of the items
for the benefit of other workers. Instead of hold-
ing one general Stake Conference where,owing to
distance, lack of teams etc.,it is utterly impossible
for hundreds of the little ones to attend, Pres.
Molen has very wisely organized district confer-
ences including three or four branches—changing
the conference each year so that all may share
alike in the benefit and pleasures. These Annual
Conferences are faithfully visited by the Stake
Presidency Jane E. Molen, Mattie B. Hansen and
Emma Pike, and the occasion made one of
especial interest by presiding authorities and
parents and children turning out en masse to sus-
tain and encourage the Primary cause. Besides
attending these, all annual meetings, entertain-
ments, fairs, etc., are promptly visited by one or
more of the Stake officers and the energy, enter-
prize and persistence of these devoted workers are
every where manifest in the advancement of the
children. Quarterly officers' meetings are also
held in Logan, where methods are devised, plans
discussed, mistakes corrected, reports given, and
all business transacted, but above all where
strength and courage are imparted from a perfect
understanding of each other, and love and con-
fidence engendered by such frequent association,
that duty becomes closely allied with pleasure.
	Complying with the wishes of Apostle Moses
Thatcher and Sister Zina D. Young, staunch
friends to the Primary work, all officers and those
taking part in the exercises remove their hats
during the services; the advantages of this custom
should be considered by all.
	The children accept the minutes in concert and
the boys are required to take their proper place
at the head and lead out on the programmes. It
was with much astonishment that we beheld so
many boys attending meeting—the girls are every-

[Column 2]

where—ever present, but by actual count there
were 550 boys at the various meetings; we were
anxious to learn by what means this was accom-
plished, and concluded that it was due largely to
the co-operation of parents, and the loving tact
of the officers that make the boys feel themselves
an actual necessity.
	Monday we visited beautiful Hyrum. The Con-
ference was held there in two meetings, compris-
ing Millville, Paradise and Farmers Branch, with
112 boys at the morning session and an excellent
programme; the manuscript paper was a little gem
and the recitations were particularly good.
	Tuesday, we reached Mendon and held two
meetings. The programme was rendered by the
children of Mendon, Wellsville not represented,
and Petersboro.The latter is a farming district con-
taining only 12 families scattered miles apart, yet
the class exercises on Church history and good
manners were among the best; it is a matter of
surprise how these children are brought together
and taught to speak and sing in such harmony!
	In Mendon we were attracted by the number
of children able to play on the organ, and their
correct singing was quite praisworthy.
	Wednesday we attended the Smithfield Confer-
ence which included Hyde Park, and Benson
Wards, the latter absent and the Smithfield
schools being in session, the large morning meet
was composed mostly of Hyde Park people. In
the afternoon Smithfield was well represented
and throughout the day the exercises made a de-
lightful entertainment, the singing being especi-
ally good.
	The weather so far had been most favorable,
but Thursday morning Richmond was favored
with a heavy shower which, though ceasing just
before the meeting hour we feared would detain
many at home, but to our surprise the large meet-
ing house was well filled and in the afternoon
crowded. We were promised a treat in this
place and were gratified beyond anticipation.
The stands were tastefully draped with festoons of
evergreens and flowers and house plants artisti-
cally arranged. Here, places of business are
closed and the people give their undivided atten-
tion to the Primary Annual Conference which in-
terest must secure success.
	Lewiston and Cove Ville are here represented
and the programme was full of interesting variety
2 or 3 selections of local interest composed by the
Richmond poetess was a pleasing feature, the
choir flourishes under a young lady organist and
leader, and a Christmas carol, with bell accom-
paniment by 7 girls in white dresses and wreaths,
was enchanting. We had asked for mouth organ
solos in all places, but was only favored by one
little boy, but here to our delight 3 girls gave a
very good solo on this handy little instrument. A
blind boy from Lewiston also favored us with a
solo. We saw the picture of the former Primary
band in full uniform, but they have all passed into
the senior class, and we hope others will take
their places.
	Friday we were ready to attend Conference in-
the little town of Newton, and wondered where
people would come from, to fill the house, but
both meetings were crowded and chairs borrowed
to give seats to all. Clarkston belongs to this
district and here as elsewhere they "were up to
the times" full of energy and good works as
shown by the creditable work represented by the
children, this being the first conference since the
death of their former Pres., Sister Bessie Griffin.
A touching exibition of the love she had won was
given in tears and signs of loving remembrance
at mention of her name.
	In this place our labors ended. Though begun
by bearing up the cross in fear, they ended with
an outpouring of God's blessing upon those who
labor for His cause striving to turn the hearts of
His children to Him in sincere love and reverent


worship. The exercises to be rendered at these
conferences are all sent to the President of the
association, where the meeting is to be held, and
a complete programme is made out for the day,
preventing tedious delays and loss of time. In
all places we were cordially welcomed and hos-
pitably entertained by the officers and other kind
sisters, and return home with the full assurance
that the Primary cause is in a progressive condi-
tion in that part of the vineyard, and much credit
is due those who labor incessantly with brain
and body to accomplish the mighty work com-
menced in Zion. 
LILLIE FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R.   S.   REPORTS.

	TOOELE STAKE.

	Minutes of the conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Tooele Stake, held in Grantsville,
June 13, 1891. President Mary A. Hunter
presiding. There were present on the stand
Apostle F. M.  Lyman, Stake President H. S.
Gowans, his Counselors Chas. L. Anderson
and Geo. F. Richards and Bishop Atkin of
Tooele; of Salt Lake, Sisters Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors to Prest.
Zina D. H. Young. The time was spent in
the morning by good instructions being given
by Sisters Jane S. Richards and Batheba
W. Smith. The attendance was not very
good because of the prevailing disease, diph-
theria. No Primary Association Conference
was held because of the above stated reason.
Sunday afternoon Conference was continued
and attended by the same few who attended
before. The Sisters again spoke in a very in-
teresting manner. Apostle F. M. Lyman in
his usual interesting way addressed the con
gregation. The officers of the Relief Society
were presented and sustained. Singing, and
then the benediction was pronounced by Prest.
H. S. Gowans. Conference was then ad-
journed for six months to be held in Tooele
City.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Assembly Rooms 14th ward of this City,
Friday June 19th, 1891, Prest. M. I. Horne
presiding. Conference opened by singing,
‘‘We thank thee O, God for a Prophet,” etc.
	Prayer was offered by the Secretary Eli-
zabeth Howard. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation," etc.
	On the stand and platform with the Pre-
sident M. Isabella Horne, were Sisters E1-
mina S. Taylor, Elizabeth Webb, Elizabeth
Stevenson, Sarah M. Kimball, Maria W.
Wilcox and several other branch presi-
dents.
	Roll called 18 Presidents, 11 Counselors,
and 2 Secretaries responded. Minutes of the
last Conference read and accepted.
	Prest. Horne in her opening address wel-
comed those present and exhorted the sisters
to diligence and faithfulness, cautioned them
to beware of carelessness and indifference in
attending to their meetings and other duties,
that were for their spiritual welfare.
	First ward S. L. City reported by Ann
Young, Counselor; 2nd ward Ann McGre-
gor, Counselor; 3d Elizabeth Weiler, Presi-
dent; 5th Mary Buchanan, Counselor; 7th
Mary Alice Lambert, President; 9th E.
Webb, Counselor; 10th Charlotte Fawcett,
Teacher; 11th Agnes Child, Teacher; 13th
Louisa Spencer, Counselor; 14th M. W. Wil-
cox, President; 15th S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent; 16th Diana Reid, President; 17th Em-
ma Bull, Secretary; 18th Hannah M.
Wright, Counselor; 19th Ann E. Neal, Pre-

[Column 2]
sident; 22nd Mary Jeremy, Counselor; Sugar
House, Betsey Balwinkle, Secretary; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson, President;
South Cottonwood, Mary Rawlins, President;
Draper, Mary Smith, Counselor; Union, Mary
Ann Smart, Secretary; Mountain Dell, Mary
Jane Dixon, President; Sandy, Harriet Wil-
son, Counselor; South Jordan, Ann Halt,
President; West Jordan, Agnes Cutler Trea-
surer; North Jordan, Emily Beckstead, Coun-
selor; these branches were reported in
good working order and the members active
and desirous of performing every duty de-
volving upon them in caring for the poor, at-
tending to the sick and improving in spirit-
ual things.
	President Horne made a few suggestive
remarks and the meeting adjourned until 2
p.m. Singing;
	"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by E. S. Taylor. Afternoon
session opened with singing.
	"O, happy souls-who pray," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
Singing, 
	"O, ye mountains high," etc.
	The first speaker was Elvira Hirst, Presi-
dent, Pleasant Green, who reported that
branch, followed, by Jane Silcock, President,
Riverton; Mary A. Mousley, President, Bluff-
dale; Charlotte Neilson, President, Hunter. 
These sisters gave good reports concerning
their respective branches, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the store established
by the sisters; had hoped to have a report of
the six months at the next conference;
thought the sisters should take an interest in
this home institution and give it their sup-
port and patronage, and have faith in its suc-
cess; some of the greatest achievements had
very small beginnings. Referred to the Pri-
mary Association. The whispering of theSpirit
to Sister Amelia Rogers of Farmington had
been to organize the children, it had a small
commencement, but it had grown and in
creased and become a success. Felt we must
trust implicitly in the blessing of our Father
in heaven upon all of our efforts, and what-
ever we establish for mutual benefit.
	Lula Greene Richards, Treasurer 20th
Ward, represented that society as being in
good condition, though there had been a great
deal of sickness during the winter.
	Sarah M. Kimball, gave some encourage-
ment to the Secretaries, hoped they would
comprehend the blessings of the position and
become more fully developed through the
discipline of this important labor; gave some
suggestive hints upon dress, thought we should
make an improvement in this regard for the
benefit of our health and that we might have
more complete activity of every organ of the
human body.
	E. B. Wells spoke of intellectual and spirit-
ual development; urged the sisters to strive to
improve in speaking, and not be afraid of their
own voices, commended the diligence and the
liberality of the sisters, and referred to the
visit of the Delegates to Washington and the
good she thought would be derived therefrom
as a step, in advance.
	Helen M. Whitney expressed her grati-
tude in being able once more to attend
Conference, and spoke at some length upon
faith and prayer and the blessings to be
obtained thereby; also spoke of her great
desire to be of some use in the world, and
to endure all trials patiently even unto the
end; thought it necessary that we should be
united in order to obtain wisdom and pow-
er to rise above earthly things that we
should be humble and examine ourselves
and exercise charity.

[Column 3]
	The Sisters joined in singing a verse
from the hymn,
	"How firm a foundation."
	Elizabeth Howard felt we should be cau-
tious about evil speaking and liberal in our
feelings religiously and politically; in edu-
cating our children’s religion should be the
first consideration, the sisters should interest
themselves more in study politics.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few further remarks
upon politics; thought we should educate our-
selves to become educators; and should
stand upon a platform of equal rights, we
ought to understand the results and bearings
of the different laws before we can teach
these things. 
	Prest. Horne endorsed the remarks of Mrs.
Kimball and gave some specific instructions
to the Relief Society in reference to their
duties, and urged them to make an effort to
get younger women to co-operate with them
in visiting as teachers and in the active la-
bors of the Society. Spoke of the high esti-
mate the Prophet Joseph put upon the work
of the sisters, and that he organized it for a
strength and help and blessing to women.
She realized that women were coming on to a
higher platform, thought their intelligence
and ideas should be as great as those of men;
and be interested in everything that is for the
good of the community.
	Dr. Conger was accorded the privilege of
addressing the conference for about twenty
minutes, on the subject of health and how to
secure this inestimable blessing. His remarks
were good and his words well-chosen, and very
suggestive as well as highly interesting.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Doxology. Benediction by E.
Webb.
	E. HOWARD, Secretary.

	BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City on the 10th of
June. Pres. Olivia Widerborg presiding.
Singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer by Brother Crawford singing, “Come
come ye saints;' roll called, minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved. Annie
Bowring acting as Sec., pro tem.
	Pres. Widerborg:“Let us chase all care away
while we are here, let us ask ourselves, what
have I learned since last conference? How do
we stand? The Lord is so anxious to bless us.
God help us to truly treasure up knowledge,
to love one another and fulfil the mission we
came here for.”
	Sister Hubbard, Pres. Willard: “I am happy
to meet with you; I need the spirit of the Lord
to be with me every moment of my life; we
come here to secure words of comfort, we
should have charity; I believe I know what
that means, let us strive to be one that we may
truly be the children of our Father in heaven.
	Sister Albertsen, Pres. Bear River City:
"We feel well in our ward, the Lord has blest
us much, I feel the Gospel is as sweet to me as
it has always been."
	Sister Booth, Pres. first ward Brigham City:
"It is our duty to meet often together; we
should encourage our young people to read
Church history instead of novels; let us com-
fort and sustain one another; and keep near
unto the Lord."
	Sister Perry, Three Mile Creek: "I can say
we are truly a hand of sisters; I hope it may
be our happy lot to be counted among the
faithful; our President, Jane Perry, is very
sick, which causes us to mourn."
	Sister Dewey, Pres. Deweyville: "My prayer
to our Heavenly Father is that I may have
wisdom to counsel and devise. I feel to say,
God bless the Relief Society; I miss Sister
Perry, she has been so faithful.


[Column 1]
	Sister Watkins, Pres. 4th Ward Brigham
City: “We should rise up to our duties; we
know the predictions of the prophets will be
fulfilled.”
	Sister C. Jensen, Pres. Mantua: “I think we
have a splendid set of sisters we have been
greatly blest of the Lord; I can bear testimony
that He has heard my prayers.”
	Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden: “I am
pleased to meet with you; we generally say,
we see the same ones to meeting always; I am
glad it is the same ones and a few more; we
become attached to each other; I have never
enjoyed myself better; what we have heard of
the sisters, I would have said; I feel when I
speak to you that you know just what I know;
we are approaching the time when things shall
try this people; what shall we do that we may
keep oil in our lamps? all are willing and
kind to donate and help the sick; the world
will do that, we should be charitable, forgive
each other’s faults; only when we have an
abundance of the Holy Spirit can we see our
own faults, therefore we need much. We need
to have a humble, childlike feeling; we should
be pleased with everybody; we want to feel
friendly; when I look upon an assembly I feel
thankful that so many sisters have had a desire
strong enough to go to meeting;” spoke of
her sick sister; many times our duty keeps us
with the sick. I like education, but we must
not dote upon it, but use it for the benefit of
others, not be haughty and proud; we had
Sister Eliza R. Snow to educate us in these
things; she felt so full of love for the sisters,so
full of charity and was so forgiving; she was a
true mother to all; may we overlook each
other’s little follies.”
	Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Counselor Mary
Wright.

	Afternoon session. Singing, “’Mid scenes.”
Prayer by Bishop Dewey. Singing “O God to
Thee, thanks for our blessings free.”
	Pres. O. Widerborg: “We have spent a
pleasant time, the Lord has poured out His
spirit. Sister Richards proposes that we turn
this meeting into a testimony meeting. I want
to say for our Primary, I attended their
officers’ meeting yesterday it would do every
mother good to see and understand the work
of these officers.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow: “Fifty-five years ago
I remember distinctly, the most blessed meet-
ings we had were those in the Temple in
Kirtland, as is here proposed. Father Smith
presided, took immense pains to have every
sister and brother say shortly what the Spirit
had to say; sisters would speak in tongues,
others interpreted, the Spirit of God was upon
us; these were glorious times, glorious seasons
I believe it depends a great deal upon the
sisters, if our fast meetings are well attended,
I believe things are coming that will try every
one; if persecution comes let us be prepared,
no matter what comes, so we have abundance
of the Spirit of God. We saw the great work
last night of the Primary; do all you can to
save your daughters to attend these organiza-
tions. God bless you and your officers,and all
who are working for the advancement of Zion.
Amen.
	Pres. Rudger Clawson: “I know we can not
spend our time or develop our talents better,
than in the interest of Zion. We should en-
courage our children as they grow up, we should
instil in them the principles of the Gospel, to pay
tithing from early childhood; let them feel they
are somebody, they are the hope of Israel; we
must educate them in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	Sister Richards: “we have not been speaking
much of obedience. I think it is impossible for
us to do any good, comfort or aid unless the
Lord should put it into our mouths; of course
[Column 2]
we are full of faults and failings, sometimes
say and do things that we should not, there is
so much expected of us, it is quite an under-
taking for mothers to do their duties at home
and attend meetings. I hope we may someday
be perfect, if we have heaven at all it must be a
home full of that kind feeling, love and
charity; we don’t want to do any harm, we
have been poor and needy like those we visit;
how much we have to be thankful for, if we do
not live like Latter-day Saints, it is a great
deal of comfort to try to live as one. We
should be greatly thankful that we are among
those few favored children of the Lord; all
He wants us to do, is, to try to serve and obey
Him;” spoke of the Primary: “mothers should
visit them and help these sisters, you are here
so am I, to do good; may God bless you,
Amen.”
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Pres. Honeyville:
Sisters Celia Nelson, Call and Harris bore
their testimony. Sister Reeves told how the
Lord had given her a strong testimony, that
she knew the principle of Celestial marriage
was true.
	Sister Robinson bore her testimony. Sister
Davids told how she was shown the man she
should marry in plural marriage although she
had never heard about that principle yet;
bore a faithful testimony that the principle
was true though we had not now the privi-
lege of living in it.
	Margaret Evans and Sister Nelson bore their
testimony.
	Hymn sung by Brother Booth, joined in by
the congregation, “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.” Pres. Widerborg. “We will
lose nothing if we prolong our meeting one
half hour.” Brother Crawford told how he
had received a testimony.
	Brother Gibbert and Sisters Phoebe W.
Snow, Perry, Gilbert, Mortensen and Rees
bore strong and faithful testimonies.
	Pres. Widerborg: “I feel to thank the
Priesthood and Sister Richards for visiting
us. Sister E. B. Wells sends her love to all
the sisters of Box Elder.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Adolph Madsen.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The regular meeting of the W. S A. of
Salt Lake Co., was held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, June 16, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard occupied the chair. Prayer by
Phebe C. Young. May Talmage was appointed
to act as Sec., pro. tem. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read a very carefully pre-
pared article on “Republicanism,” containing
the platform of that party, also some interest-
ing points on “Government,” taken from
Chamber’s Encyclopedia.
	Elizabeth McFarlane read from “Hand
Book of Reference,” on the Government of
Utah.
	Phebe C. Young thought the present a very
important time in as much as there was now a
division of the political parties. We should
inform ourselves on the platform of each
National party and on all the leading questions
of the day, said she had enjoyed the fran-
chise for 17 years and had never failed to ex-
ercise her rights; said she would like to see
not only the ladies have their rights restored
to them, but all those natural born citizens of
the other sex who had been deprived of the
same.
	Dr. E. S. Barney had taken an interest,
when young, in studying the principles of the
different parties, but had not thought so much
about it of late years,until the recent change in


our political affairs; thought we should all
strive to be on the right side whatever name it
bore.
	Pres. Howard said she thought it quite time
we understand our positions and on what
footing we stand. In her opinion the day
would come when men would be raised up in
these valleys, who would be able to carry out
the principles of our Government in their
purity, and not for the love of gain. She re-
gretted the fact that more of our mothers and
wives did not manifest a greater interest in
our meetings. Read a short extract from an
article in Blackwood’s Magazine, entitled“A
Pessimistic Observer” giving the result of
the research of an English scholar, on the
subject of United States politics and govern-
ment.
	Louisa Spencer was heart and soul in the
cause of suffrage; thought the women of this
community well adapted to make their mark
in this direction.
	Emily S. Richards said, “We cannot afford
to be ignorant on the subject of politics.
We must study for ourselves. Read the
Declaration of Independence and the Consti-
tution, also Amendment to Constitution, and
the platforms of the parties.”
	Ann McGregor made a few remarks and
the meeting was adjourned till the 3rd Tues-
day in July.
			MAY TALMAGE,  Sec. pro. tem.


WOMEN VITALLY CONCERNED.
	Women who take the least concern in pub-
lic matters must feel that their claim for a
voice in the affairs of their country is
stronger now than ever. If there is one top-
ic which is emphatically a woman’s, it is
the training of the young, and Parliament
is now entering on one of the most momentu-
ous changes ever made in the great scheme
of primary education, and the womanhood
of the nation is powerless to say yea or
nay. The questions, also, which women are
too apt to regard as purely political, and
therefore outside their sphere, concern them
as vitally as they do men. For instance,
as Miss Tod, of Belfast—whose name has so
long been associated with every effort for
women’s enfranchisement—writes in a letter
to an Irish daily, the “Land Purchase Bill
touches the interest of woman farmers, of
whom there are nearly 60,000 in Ireland,
and of woman land owners great and small
who amount to about an eighth of the total
number. The Factory Bills affect the lives
of tens of thousands of women. The educa-
tional changes impending in Ireland are
watched with more anxiety than hope by
the friends of girls, who have barely es-
caped from the action of a ukase which
would have stopped the education of three-
fourths of the girls of Ireland at the level
degrading to them and fatal to the progress
of the community. The way out of the di-
fficulty is for the Government boldly to say
that they will no longer leave the welfare of
half the nation to the mere goodwill of in-
dividual members of Parliament, but admit
those holding the usual qualification to the
position of electors and the responsibility it
brings with it.”—Westminster Gazette (Eng.)


“The deputy postmaster general at London
is filling all vacancies in the male clerical staff
at the postoffice with women clerks. One
hundred and ten women have just passed the
requisite open examination called for by the
civil service regvlations, and will be employed
at first at salaries of £60, their duties being the
same as those performed by male clerks.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT﻿


A JURY OF WOMEN.
	Mrs. Ingersoll, proprietess of the Valley
House, the principal hotel in the city of
Douglas, Wyoming, refused to pay the wages
of two of her girls who quit work without giv-
ing previous notice of their intention of doing
so. They appealed to the law and the case
was brought before Judge Robinson.
	Mrs. Ingersoll demanded a jury. The usual
form of summoning six male citizens was
being proceeded with, when Minnie Jones, one
of the plaintiffs, appealed to the Court. She
said:
	“Mr. Judge, this is a woman suffrage county
and as we are all women in this case, can’t we
have a a woman jury?”
	Judge Robinson consulted the attorneys for
both sides, and as both were willing he direct-
ed the bailiffs to summon women to serve on
the jury.
	This was done, and by the time the jury
reached the court room the unusual proceed-
ings were noised about and the room was
crowded with spectators.
	The testimony of the plaintiffs and defend-
ant was given and the case was argued at
length by the attorneys for both sides.
	The jury listened attentively, and several of
the ladies asked questions as the case was
heard. They retired to the jury room when
the case was concluded and in a business-like
way gave a verdict for the servant girls. The
result was applauded by the spectators and
the jury women were warmly congratulated as
they stepped up to the clerk’s desk to receive
their warrants for the jury duty.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The consular reports on labor matters lately
collected for the English Parliament, showed
that legislation for the protection of women
and children is everywhere in progress.”

	“Mrs. Grover Cleveland is much interested
in mission work. She is vice-president of a
mission kindergarten, and visits the mission
frequently.

	“A Swiss woman has invented a watch for
the blind, on the dial of which the hours are
indicated by twelve projecting pegs, one of
which sinks every hour.”

	“It is reported that Queen Victoria has of-
fered to make Lady MacDonald a peeress, in
recognition of her husband’s distinguished ser-
vices to the empire.”

	“Miss Palmer, of Philadelphia, who is the
champion of a new silk worm, is making pre-
parations to start a ribbon factory at Topeka.
She will, it is said, furnish the capital her-
self.”
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s energy of mind
cannot be better illustrated than by the fact
that she began the study of Greek when she
was nearly 70 years old. Now, at 72, she has
just read the plays of Sophocles in the origin-
al.
	“The bill providing for a woman’s profes-
sorship at the State University of Michigan
has become a law. This is the result of the
movement begun by Mrs. Lucinda H. Stone,
and seconded by the women’s clubs.”
	
	“Miss Minerva Parker, the architect of the
Woman’s Century Club building in Phila-
delphia, and the Isabella Pavilion of the
World’s Fair, is a slight, willowy young wo-
man with a Madonna face, from which the
dark hair is combed back smoothly, and beauti-
ful dark eyes.”


WOMEN INVENTORS.

	Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending May 5, 1891, as follows:
	Louisa H. Clomer; Philadelphia, Pa., Inven-
tion not specified.
	Helen V. Holmes, Chicago, Ill. Device
for stretching and drying curtains.

	For week ending May 19:
	Alice R. Eaton, Louisville, Ky., Comb-
Cleaner.
	Mary S. C. Hartmann, Redding, Cal.,
Steamer for Culinary Vessel.
	Marie Mahondeau, Paris, France, Extract-
ing Sugar from Molasses.
	Carrie McGrew, Cincinnati, O., Card Hold-
ing Attachment for Typewritting Machine.
	Mary A. Turley, Yonkers, N. Y., Ironing-
Support or Seam-Pressing Machine.
	Abigail H. Bullock, Philadelphia, Pa.,
Cosmetic.
	Bertha J. Requardt, Baltimore, Md., Tonio
for the Hair.

	For week ending June 2:
	Mary H. Brigman, Penn Yan, N. Y.
Brush.
	Emma R. Burt, Gatesville Texas,
Chemise.
	Lydia Stecknell, Atchison, Kan., Dough-
Kneader.
	Ex.


ONE MORE GONE TO REST.

	At Richville, Morgan Co., May 6th 1891, we were called
to part with a noble woman, Sister Fanny Parks Taggart,
wife of Geo. W. Taggart.
	She had been a member of the Church 55 years. Was
one of those sisters who made the sacrifice of her husband
to go and assist in the war with Mexico. Came to Utah in 
1852, and finally settled in Morgan Co., where she died.
She was President of the Relief Society about 14 years
which position she honorably filled until about a year be-
fore her demise, then she resigned on account of declining
health She was an exemplary woman, always ready to
help where assistance was required.
	The counsel she gave will long be remembered by young
mothers with whom she was associated.
	She was the mother of 3 children and 31 grand-children.
She bore a strong testimony to the work of God and died
as she had lived a faithful Saint. Retained her right mind
until the last moment of her life. We do not wish her
back to this world of sorrow, but feel that we have lost a
true friend, and mother in Israel. May she rest in peace
until the morning of the first resurrection.
							MARYETTE WALDRON.


IN MEMORIAM.
		
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
Provo City, unanimously adopt the following resolutions.
To the memory of our esteemed sister Mary S. Bennett,
who departed this life May 20th, 1891.
	She was born in Roland, England, March 2nd 1839.
She was married to John Bennett, Feb. 1st 1863, was the
mother of twelve children, ten sons and two daughters,
seven sons who survive her.
	She was a faithful member of our Society, and an active
teacher for several years, she had a kind and cheerful dis-
position, and was ever willing to help the sick and those in
trouble, she was an affectionate wife and indulgent mother.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister and
friend,
	Therefore be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister the loss of a faithful teacher and co-laborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and patience and
uncomplaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased, and with them acknowledge the 
hand of our Father in heaven.	Resolved that these resolutions be entered into the
Relief Society record, also a copy be presented to the be-


reaved family, and printed in the Utah Enquirer and WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
	M. M. WATSON,
		President.
	ADELAIDE J. MELDRUM,
	RACHEL ANN GATHERUM,
		Committee.


Woman’s Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.

	A bright newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of 
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's 
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon 
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR.	SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc, Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
