VOL. 20. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1892.	NO. 17.


CONTENTS.

	Communion—Mary Y. Corby. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. What is Our Position Today—
Zion's Convert. R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A.
Reports. W. S. A. Reports. W. S. Party at
Payson, Utah. Two Presendia Kimballs. Wo-
man's Status in Sweden. Press Women in the
World's Congress Auxiliary. Notice to Stake
Secretaries. W. S. A. Convention.
	EDITORIAL:—The Relief Society. The Jubilee
Celebration, Speech of Pres. Jos. F. Smith. U.
W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp, Sec. A Loving Tribute
—S. E. R.
	POETRY:—Ode to Spring—Mrs. James T. Fields.
The Daughters of Zion, The Friends of The
Poor—Emily H. Woodmansee. Easter Morning
—L. M. Hewlings. A Child's Thought—Marion
Taylor. Letter to Lula—Amy E. Cook.


ODE TO SPRING.

I wakened to the singing of a bird;
I heard the bird of spring,
And lo!
At his sweet note
The flowers began to grow,
Grass, leaves, and everything,
As if the green world heard
The trumpet of his tiny throat
From end to end, and winter and despair
Fled at his melody, and passed in air.

I heard at dawn the music of a voice,
O my beloved, then I said the spring
Can visit only once the waiting year,
The bird can bring
Only the season's song, nor his the choice
To waken smiles or the remembering tear!
But thou dost bring
Springtime to every day, and at thy call
The flowers of life unfold, though leaves of autumn fall.
	—MRS. JAMES T. FIELDS, in March Century.


THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION, THE
FRIENDS OF THE POOR.

TUNE—THE STAR SPANGLED BANNER.

[Written for the Relief Society Jubilee March 17, 1892.]
Oh! blest was the day when the Prophet and Seer,
	(Who stands at the head of this last dispensation,)
Inspir'd from above by "The Father" of Love,
	Form'd the Daughters of Zion's great organization.
		And its purpose, indeed, is to comfort and feed
		The honest and poor in distress and in need.
		Oh! the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor
		Are exemplars of faith, hope and charity, pure.

CHORUS.
Oh! the Daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor,
Are examplars of faith, hope and charity, pure.

Oh! Daughters of Truth, ye have cause to rejoice,
	Lo! the key of advancement is placed in your keeping;
To help with your might whatsoever is right,
	To gladden their hearts who are weary of weeping.
		By commandment divine, Zion's daughters must shine,
		And all of the sex, e'en as one, should combine,
		For a oneness of action success will ensure
		In resisting the wrongs that 'tis wrong to endure.
			CHORUS.

Oh, woman! God gave thee the longing to bless,
	Thy touch like Compassion's, is warm and carressing;
And there's power in thy weakness to soften distress,
	To brighten the gloom and the darkness depressing:
		And  not in the rear, hence, need woman appear;
		Her star is ascending, her zenith is near;
		Like an angel of mercy, she'll stand in the van,
		The joy of the world, and the glory of man. 
			CHORUS.


Oh! be of good cheer, far-extending we see
	The rosy-hued dawn like a vision of beauty;
Its glory and light can interpreted be:
	Go on, in the pathway of love and of duty!
		The brave earnest soul will arive at its goal;
 		True heroes are crowned as the ages unroll;
		And there's blessing in blessing, admit it we must,
		And there's honor in helping a cause that is just.

			CHORUS.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]

COMMUNION.

	There is something sweet even in the word
communion, it seems to suggest a close inti-
macy and loving sympathy with friend or
friends, a union of heart and desire for their
company, a wish to please them, to take their
counsel, to willingly give them the preference
in all things, believing their ways and desires
and plans better than our own.
	We do not always find this amount of confi-
dence even between the saints of God, but we
have one—our Father in heaven in whom we
can place implicit trust at all times and under
all circumstances and He never betrays our
confidence. He is always ready to draw near to
us when we draw near to him, and in the hour
of communion with him we are privileged to
confide to His ear—our sorrows and our joys
our wants and our desires—and if we approach
him with pure motives, in humility of spirit
and as dutiful children to a loving Father, we
may always rest assured that He will meet with 
us, and bless us with whatever will be for our
good.
	We have many beautiful examples of com-
munion with God in the sacred scriptures.
Those saints who enjoy the approbation of God
were always those who lived in daily communion
with him. Isaac went out in the fields at
eventide to meditate, or in other words to com-
mune with his God. He had sent his servant
on an important errand and he was doubtless
asking the Lord's blessing on the undertaking.
His servant, though a long way from home was
receiving an answer to his, and his master's
prayer—"and he worshiped the Lord and said,
Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abra-
ham, who hath not left destitute my master of
His mercy and truth—I being in the way the
Lord led me." He had in prayer sought the
Lord's direction and He had led him the right
way. Moses was specially favored of God—
his was truly a life of communion. On Mount
Sinai he communed with his God until his
face shone so that he had to cover it with a
veil before the children of Israel could look
upon him. Hannah was communing with her
Lord when "she spake in her heart; only her
lips moved, but her voice was not heard." She
"poured out her soul before the Lord and He
heard her and granted her request. David
was a man of much prayer, said he, "Evening
and morning and at noon will I pray and cry
aloud and he He shall hear my voice,"
	It was communion with God which gave
strength to the three Hebrew children to bear
the "burning fiery furnace," rather than wor-
ship a false God. It was communion with his
Father which inspired Daniel with courage to
face the hungry lions, knowing that God would
deliver him in the hour of peril. Turn we to
the Book of Mormon and we find Enos to be
a man of much prayer—he gives us a very
interesting description of the way by which he

[Column 2]

obtained remission of his sins. His father had
often spoken to him concerning Eternal life
and the joy of the saints, and it had sunk deep
into his heart, and he says, "My soul hungered
and I knelt down before my Maker and I
cried to him in mighty prayer and supplica-
tion for my own soul; all the day long did I
cry unto him; and when the night came I did
still raise my voice high that it reached the
heavens and there came a voice unto me say-
ing, "Enos thy sins are forgiven thee and thou
shalt be blessed." Like our own Prophet
Joseph, he was inspired with the spirit of com-
munion and like him in the forest, he poured
out his soul before God and he obtained that
for which his hungered.
	Our Lord and Master felt the need of daily
communion with His Father. He never en-
gaged in anything until He first sought his
Father's blessing. When He was about to
heal the sick, He withdrew himself into the
wilderness and prayed—the result was, the
power of the Lord was present to heal. He
let nothing come between him and his Father
to disturb the spirit of communion, sometimes
"rising up a great while before day," at other
times continuing "whole nights in prayer to
God." Whether He was surrounded with
thousands of people clamoring for bread, until
He had to work a miracle to supply them
whether He was healing the sick, or blessing
little children, whether He was publicly preach-
ing, or privately instructing his disciples, He
found time to pray.
	When He found it necessary for his disciples
to have a season of meditation and prayer, He
said to them, "Come ye yourselves apart into
a desert place and rest awhile." He some-
times finds it necessary to say the same to us
and the way He leads us into a desert place,
is to lay the hand of affliction upon us, thus
bidding us to rest awhile till we examine our-
selves and remember our covenants, that we
made with him, when we were buried with
him by baptism and rose again to walk in new-
ness of life, and well will it be for us if we
make good use of these solitary seasons lest by
our negligence we draw down severer judg-
ments upon us.
	Let us endeavor to follow more closely the
example our Divine Master places before us.
Let us follow him as he pensively travels over
the path of life, speaking a comforting word to
the bereaved, relieving the distressed and in-
structing the ignorant. See him at the close
of the day lifting his hand in blessing on the
crowd and bidding them go to their homes,
watch him turning his back upon them and
his disciples and move off to the mountains.
Follow his receding figure until it is lost in
the distance and we know that in that
dense darkness, he is in deep and loving com-
munion with his Father in heaven. If this
was needful in his case, how much more in
ours, who have wants a thousand fold greater.
	Jesus, Brother! help us to find thy knee
prints on the mountain and pray to thy Father
and our Father, thy God and our God. Let
us put aside the pleasures of life, which are so
empty, so vain and unsatisfying, and let us
take deep draughts at the well of communion,
and thus imitate him, through whom we enjoy
the hope of eternal life.

	Cold mountains and the midnight air,
		Witnessed the fervor of His prayer;
	The desert His temptations knew,
		His conflict and His victory too.
			MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

X.
	WEARY with the journey and dispirited
because of the continued strain upon the ner-
vous system, the young ladies at the Castle
longed for rest and quiet. Under the circum-
stances this was next to impossible. It was
positively necessary that some action be taken
immediately, and so Mr. Burke informed Miss
Conway. "There is no time to delay this
matter," he said to her. "The will must be
acted upon, the time is now advanced because
of the long journey, and my duty as the family
solicitor compels me to notify all persons
(which I have done) interested to assemble 
here on Friday night." This was the ultima-
tum, then. It was in the evening of Saturday
he had come up from London, and he lost no
time in stating his errand, and he spoke with
authority. "Miss Conway," he continued,
"you will please make this matter plain to her
ladyship, and meantime see that preparations
are made for the entertainment of Sir Edward's
relatives, who will arrive probably a day or
two prior to the date mentioned.
	Miss Conway was mentally glad that there
was something really necessary to be done, other
wise she would brood over the declaration of
Dr. Bland. Nothing further had been said, and 
the self-contained young girl did not know
what was wisest to say or do were he to speak
out again. She had thought over all the ladies
she knew, and wondered if there were one
among them, who could give her safe advice,
and would she take it if it were given? She
was even more helpless than her cousin, for she
could lean upon her, and knew too that she
wanted, while poor Jane was not at all confi-
dent that it would be best for her to accept Dr.
Bland's offer of marriage. She had looked
forward to a life of single blessedness and toil
in the house of some relative, latterly her
uncle Edward's, or as governess, or companion
to some gentlewoman. This had been the extent
of her ambition, except the aspiration to do
right for the love of principle. This seemed
interwoven in her very nature, and an inherit-
ance she clung to tenaciously. And this very
idea made her shrink from  marriage with a
man whom she felt no special preference or
attraction for, that it would be wronging him
and above all wronging her own acute sense of
honor and uprightness. "If I only knew what
was right," she often said when alone. She had
not yet learned that the Lord would guide and
direct her if she sought aright.
	Faithful and true she knew she could be,
even if her marriage should be an unhappy
one. That did not trouble her. She was not
thinking of happiness as the highest good. She
fretted less about her cousin than she would
have done for her own affairs was more puzzl-
ing. When Anna talked to her she gave her
sound advice, and reasoned like one learned in
the art of love-making. Maitland Walton had
kept away from the castle and behaved like a
hero, and she admired his manliness, though
his sweetheart thought it cruel and unkind.
He was waiting patiently to see what turn
affairs would take, or in other words to know
the purport of Sir Edward's last will and tes-
tament. His mother spared no pains in inter-
esting him; she had friends visiting at the Hall
and there was always some amusement—
music, dancing, riding, and the hours flew
rapidly by. Lady Walton had called soon
after their return, and for the first time then
met Lady Anna. Her pale complexion, fair
hair, and delicate figure, with the deep mourn-
ing in which she was dressed, impressed Lady
Walton deeply. "How beautiful she is," was
her first exclamation to her son on his return
home after the interview, and the young man
added, "How could old Sir Edward have

[Column 2]

such a daughter?" and Lady Walton drew
herself up to her full height and looking him
steadily in the eye said, "My son, never let
such an expression pass your lips again con-
cerning her father," and she turned away, that
he might not see her emotion; for though
years had come and gone she had never quite
conquered her own heart, and now that he was
dead, he seemed nearer; that is, she felt it
would not be so very wrong if she mourned for
him as a dead friend. While he was living
she would not dare allow her feelings to con-
trol her in the least. The son was entirely
ignorant of the cause of the estrangement be-
tween the two families. He wondered why his
mother had any interest in such a disagree-
able old fellow as the Baronet had been re-
puted to be; he could not realize, not knowing
his heart history, that he had once been a fine
specimen of one of the old aristocratic, titled
families, whose forefathers had been famous in
English chronicles. But his mother knew
these facts, and what had brought about the
change and made him old before his time. If
she had not visited him that night on her son's
account, she too would have been ignorant of
many things that now seemed plain, things
over which she had brooded in the far distant
past, that had been unfolded in the conversa-
tion with her former suitor, and she could not
help feeling that fate had brought about that
meeting, that some explanation might be made
before he passed away.
	So it was all right, notwithstanding the
embarrassment she had felt, and a sort of
consciousness that she ought not to have sought
him even to intercede for her son. And yet
she had often said in a dreamy way, "It must
be right to know at last that I wronged him
unknowlingly." Lady Walton, like Miss Con-
way, had no one to counsel with; she could
never explain to her son that the father of the
girl he loved had been her own sweetheart and
admirer, and that through all the years he had
lived since then he had carried her image in
his heart of hearts, and so, like Jane Conway,
she kept silence. But her cheek grew paler,
and she cared less for the gay parties where she
had been the gayest of the gay. The death of 
the Baronet could not outwardly affect her;
that is, she was not permitted, according to
conventionalities, to mourn for him; but her
husband noticed a change in her manner, and
frequently found her in tears, and would ten-
derly inquire the cause. She always answered
him in monosyllables, and he grew to think at
last that she was falling into a state of melan-
choly, and proposed more pleasure and gay
society; it was the only remedy he knew. How
could he think she could look back thirty years
and mourn inordinately a summer pastime; so
little do men understand the hearts of women.
His business occupations, looking after a large
estate, left him little time to reflect seriously,
and he had never troubled much about Helen,
except to give her everything a lady should
have to move in the best society. He had
allowed her unbounded liberty, and loved her
in his own fashion, as men do the one to whom
their name is given and their honor plighted.
He looked upon himself as a model husband;
and in some respects he was; still Lady Wal-
ton had longings unsatisfied, and now that she
had come to know the deception practised
upon her that had changed her whole life; she
reviewed the past with some degree of bitter-
ness. "For Maitland's sake I must go into
society," she said one day to a friend. "And
why for his sake? Are you growing old; you
do not look it; you are far more beautiful now
in your full matronly maturity than the young
misses who throng your parlors, or the balls
and parties given in London society?" I can-
not comprehend you of late; you are changed.
Is it that Italian whose fancy for you and your
music is so shockingly absurd, makes you want

[Column 3]

to withdraw from the circle in which you are
the brightest ornament?"
	"No! no, indeed; I am out of spirits, and at
my time of life one should turn her attention to
something more enduring."
	"Lady Walton," said her friend, "if I pos-
sessed your magnetism and power of fascina-
tion I do not think I should ever tire of the
world." You may think differently some day,
my dear Mrs. Emery. I am weary of attention
and of the small talk one hears. I long for ex-
pansion of soul and intellect.
	"I am surprised at your ambition. Fancy,
for instance, Lady Walton, the belle of London
society, termed 'blue stocking.'"
	"Not yet; I have not the talent; but if I had
I would go into seclusion, take a villa away
from here, avoid society, and write a book. I
have the taste for it but not the ability. It
must require originality, feeling, experience
and power of expression."
	"And do you  mean to say you have none of
these?"
	"Oh, perhaps some depth of feeling and a
little experience, but not originality, nor any
practical power to put thoughts to use."
	"I imagine you have seen more than one
love affair that would do to write up in a ro-
mance." "One cannot be in society without
seeing these things; but I have shut my eyes
when I was likely to see too much." "That
might be a good plan; everyone is not so dis-
creet, but seriously, Lady Walton, I cannot
comprehend the change in you."
	"Indeed, my friend, you surprise me; I must
interest myself in something; I am determined
not to live such a useless life; it only brings
bitterness and 'Dead Sea Apples' as its recom-
pense."
	"Bravely spoken, Lady Walton, and I will
join you when you have found a cure for
ennui."
	It was true that Lady Walton was changed.
She longed to go to the Castle and see the two
young women, and she had an idea that if Jane
Conway were like her mother she would be in-
valuable as a friend. If she had but known
that on that fateful night, the Baronet had
confided in his neice and told her of his dis-
appointment and the treachery that had
separated him from her, she might have
gathered courage to go and confide in her, now
when she felt such great need of solace. But
she did not know, and time went on. Miss
Conway had superintended all necessary
arrangements for the coming guests, and thus
time passed quickly. There was much to be
done; many of the rooms had not been used,
only occassionally for some sportsmen who had
come down from London for the shooting, and
no lady's touch had given the apartments the
appearance of home. Now the cleaning had
been thorough, and dilapidated as the old
place was inside it was sweet and wholesome
with a genuine air of home.
	A day or two beforehand (of the appointed
Friday) a lumbering old coach was driven into
the yard by a queer coachman, who seemed to
make himself quite at ease, and out came such
bundles and wraps, and finally at last a very
large old lady, with a stout cane, and more
reticules than she could manage. Miss Conway
was sent for and met her in the hall, when she
addressed her sharply: "You are Lady Anna,
I presume, Edward's daughter; you're not a
beauty though, by any means; your mother was
a rare one, golden hair and such eyes;" and
Jane could not get a chance to tell her she
was mistaken, she rattled on at such speed.
She finally succeeded in getting her up stairs,
her maid following with wraps, etc. When
she had taken off some of her outside wraps
Jane ventured to ask her if she were Sir Ed-
ward's aunt, to which she proudly replied she
was Mrs. Judith Baymore, and his father's
own sister. "Are my daughters not here yet?"


she asked. "Well, they'll be in time. Are
their rooms ready?" and as she put this ques-
tion she looked around the room into which
she had been ushered, which was scrupulously
neat, and a good hardwood fire burning on the
andirons. Seeming to recognize that the room
was comfortable, she sat down in the great arm
chair by the fire with a certain air of satisfac-
tion. "Aunt Judith," said Jane, "you mistook
me for my cousin; I am not Lady Anna; shall
send up your supper?" "Who are you, then,
to call me aunt?" "I am Sir Edward's niece,
Jane Conway." "And you are installed here
as one of the family; I was not aware of this;
how long have you been at the Castle?" "Ever
since my mother's death and burial." "Strange
he never let me know." "Did you not know of
my mother's illness and death?" "I think I
heard of her death, but never knew the par-
ticulars; she kept herself aloof from all her
family, and we never troubled about it."
	Jane turned away; Aunt Judith had opened
a wound; she could not let her go on, and in-
quired again should she send up supper?
	"Yes, Jane, and tell your cousin Anna to
come and pay her respects to her father’s aunt,
if she's not too haughty." "My cousin is not
proud, and has no such nonsense about her; she
is too innocent to have such a thought," and
away flew Jane with her own ideas distinctly
formed concerning the new comer. Before
midnight all those expected had arrived and
were generously provided for, and Jane and
Anna had talked over their relatives and passed
upon them, before retiring for the night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EASTER MORNING.

O, beautiful morning of Easter!
	Now cheering the world with thy glow,
Breaking thro' the dark clouds of sorrow,
	Releasing the children of woe.
O, rare is the halo of splendor,
	That scatters the darkness of night,
That quickens the earth from her slumber,
	Her treasures revealing to sight,
Blades of fresh green cover the meadows,
	We scent the sweet violets breath,
And the sheen of daffodil's glitter,
	From nature's rich storehouse of wealth.
O, beautiful morning of Easter!
	The hope of our long silent years;
To weary tried hearts giving rapture,
	And banishing doubt's gloomy fears.
Pure lilies we twine in their spleudor,
	With flowers of sweetest perfume,
And homage most grateful we render,
	For light that breaks over the tomb.
O, glorious morning of Easter!
	Of triumph o'er death and the grave,
Blest signs, of an endless forever,
	Thro' Him who is mighty to save.
			L. M. HEWLINCS.


A CHILD'S THOUGHT.

"Oh mother where is heaven—
	I’m drefful tired o' play,
want to see the angels,
	So tak me dere to-day?"

"But darling heaven is yonder
	A long, long way from you—
"Above the house tops mother,
	Above the sky so blue?’"

"Well guessed my fair haired laddie,
	But tho' so far away,
The great, good God can see you,
	And hear you when you pray."

"But mother how do people,
	Reach up to heav'n so high, 
I don't think I could det dere
	No matter how I'd try?"

The child's blue eyes were wistful
	And dark with unshed tears,


When like a bird of passage
	Away flew all his fears.

And gleefully he shoutedf
	"I know what I will do,
I'll det the big step ladder,
	And climb to heav'n won't you?"

			MARIAN TAYLOR,


LETTER TO LULA G. RICHARDS.

DEAR SISTER
	While packing up my things preparatory to starting on
another mission to the Sandwich Islands I came across
these verses which my sister wrote while sitting not far
from you in meeting, desiring to meet you but feared you
had forgotten her and did not like to make herself known.
So I just thought I would copy them and send them as
they were products of early friendship. She is now living
at Swan Creek, Rich Co. Utah. I do not know your
whereabouts but will leave this where you can get it, as it
may be many years before I see you again. I have missed
you at Officer's Meeting and have concluded you must
be living in the country. With kind love and best wishes
for the future I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL.

		LULA.
	If I'm washing or ironing or scrubbing,
		And as busy as busy, can be,
	I must stop and glance o'er the newspaper
		To read the lines written by thee,

	Thy "Holiday Thoughts" was a treasure
		And the lines to thine aged mother too
	And "The Red Root and Morning Glory"
		Drew my thoughts out responsive to you.

	I have but to see the word Lula
		To know the sweet strains will be there
	That will find in my own heart an echo,
		For thy lines are the products of prayer,

	May the Angels of heaven watch round, thee
		May thy beautiful Gift thus increase,
	For 'twill prove a solace in thy sorrows
		And through it will thy trials find release.

			AMY E. COOK.


[Column 1]

﻿WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	What is our position today compared with
the past? Well what shall I say? I believe
that in the eyes of the world we are improving
because we are becoming more like unto
themselves, at any rate many of us are. But
what are we in the sight of Israel's God, our
God? Are we on the improve? Are we a wiser
and better people than we were fifty years ago?
This is the problem I would like to have
solved.
	Did not the Lord say "He that scattered
Israel would gather him as a shepherd gathers
his flocks. I well remember in the year 1842
this gospel was preached in Utica, N. Y., and
how attentively I listened to the same and felt
to say, how plain and sound, how clear to the
understanding is this doctrine. Certainly it is
the same that Jesus taught, but not popular,
neither were His teachings popular, yet the
common people heard him gladly.
	I thought our Episcopal minister to be such
a good man, surely he would see and under-
stand the subject, as I did; for to me it was the
voice of the good shepherd which enlightened
the mind, and enlivened the soul, making the
bible to read plainer and more clearly to my
understanding than ever.
	He thought I was mistaken and that he
could prove it by the bible; he said, whether
there be prophecies they will fail and tongues
will cease; but the next sentence he left out, I
repeated it for him, and knowledge shall
vanish away. He then said, Whoever shall
add to the prophecy of this book to him shall
be added the plagues, &c., the bible was so
complete at that time. Yes, I replied this was
St. John's vision. Whoever said he saw any

[Column 3]

more, or any less, to him should be add the
plauges. But the angel, said thou shalt
prophecy again before many nations, tongues,
and people; but he could not see the subject as
I did, to me this gospel was the same that
Jesus taught, and surely such a church must
be on the earth when he comes again, yes with
the same spirit, the same gifts, and graces that
characterized the church He left when He was
crucified.
	There were six of us baptized one Sunday
morning in Sept. 1842. The next Sunday one
of the sisters could not attend meeting, she
had a sick babe. In the evening I saw the
child healed by the prayer of faith.
	Since that time I have a knowledge of this
gift for myself. Yet there are many gifts, all
have not the same gift. St. Paul compares it
to the body saying if all were an eye, where
were hearing, and shall the hand say because
I am not the ear, I am not of the body &c.
	It is written the Lord will have a tried
people. Now I would ask, are our trials
sanctified to our good? or do we get weary in
well doing? I well remember, after the Prophet
and Patriarch were slain we were driven from
Nauvoo, how cheerfully we left, believing that
God was with us in all our afflictions, and I
know that we were comforted and blessed. As
soon as the camp fires were built the band
struck up sweet music; and while some were
cooking the supper, others of the young peo-
ple were stepping to the music. No sighs or
groans were heard. No, we took joyfully the
spoiling of our goods, knowing there was a
more enduring substance and better days
ahead, yes, hopeful and happy; feeling that
our religion was the true riches, and this life
but short at best. I know that our love was
genuine both to our Maker and also to each
other.
	A letter was sent to the Governor of Iowa
telling him we were going west to find a home
and as all were not prepared for a long
journey, if he would permit some who needed
help to stop and work a few days to get a
better start; he promised to let them stop,
We were invited into the school house to give
a musical concert. We found friends from
time to time, and thanked God our Father for
the same.
	Many have been the joys and sorrows which
have been ours from that time until this, and
with what courage and fortitude who can tell;
only our Father in heaven and those who have
passed behind the veil, and those who are ac-
quainted with, and have a knowledge of the
Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
When His spirit accompanies the act, it is not
the same thing which it would be without it.
No, then it would be gloom and sorrow indeed.
But His spirit brings light and joy and peace,
even in making sacrifices with comfort and
consolation.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
	Feb. 15, 1892.


Rev. Ella E. Bartlett, of Madison, Wis., 
has prepared a series of "Talks on Constitu-
tional History" to be given before women's
clubs. The subject is interesting and
important.
	At the executive meeting of tbe National
W. S. A. of Massachusetts, held last week
Friday at 30 West Street reports were given
by the delegates to the recent National-
American convention, one in writing from
Miss L. A. Hatch, and a verbal report from
Mrs. Eveleen L. Mason, who spoke in closing
of the proposed legislation in New York for
the legalizing of prostitution. The Associa-
tion passed, unanimously, resolutions offered
by Mrs. H. R. Shattuck protesting against this
iniquitous measure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
         
SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1892.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

PROGRAMME OF EXERCISES.

	[The general Jubilee meeting will be held in the
Large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, commencing
at 10 a. m., Thursday, March 17, 1892, it being
fifty years since the first organization, March 17,
1842.]
	Singing by the Tabernacle Choir, Prof. E.
Stephens, Musical Director, Prof. Jos. J. Daynes,
Organist—The Grand Invocation, by Eliza R.
Snow, "O My Father, thou that dwellest."
	Prayer by President Angus M. Cannon.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of
the Lord."
	Opening Address, President, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young. 
	Reading, The Revelation to Emma Smith, Mrs.
Zina Y. W. Card.
	Reading of Sketch of the Relief Society, pre-
pared for the occasion.
	Singing by the Choir, Original Song by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, "The Daughters of Zion!
The Friends of the Poor."
	After which, Addresses will be made by the
First Presidency, (Providence permitting.)
	Addresses by Counselors, Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	Addresses by the Apostles.
	Speech by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary,
and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.
	Sentiments, The Relief Society, and The Wo-
men of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y.
	Anthem, "Daughter of Zion? Awake From Thy
Sadness."
		Prayer at High Noon,
	By One of the First Presidency.


[Column 1]

THE JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

THE NEED OF PRESS REPRESENTATION.

	The Jubilee celebration will mark a most im-
portant event in the history of the women of
Zion, and will doubtless be even more momentous
in the future than those who participate therein
can realize, or appreciate while thus engaged.
We look around and behold things near that
seem common place, events which are transpir-
ing are in themselves so real, that it detracts al-
most from their significance; but when "distance
lends enchantment to the view," when time has
mellowed all the hardness, if any there were,
when ages, or an age, or generation have past,
these same exigencies through which one some-
times passes fearfully as it were, become "foot
prints of time," made glorious because of the
strength and importance they bring in the links
of the chain of history of the times, and of the
world.

[Column 2]

	The Relief Society is a much more important or-
ganization than it has been thought by even many
of those interested in the work; looking back at
the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
reflecting upon the prophecies he uttered in refer-
ence to this great Society one can see that the
great things predicted have many of them come
to pass and can thus feel assured that other things
will yet have their fulfillment.
	During the last few years the Relief Society
has made rapid strides in recognition outside the
valleys of the mountains.
	In 1888 the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
also the Primary Associations became connected
with the International Council of Women, which
is a Federation of womens' associations all over
the world; this is a wonderful step in the march
of advancement for women everywhere, uniting
them in one great band of sisterhood, a common
sympathy with each others' interests and for the
accomplishment of the greatest good for each and
all.
	In 1891 at the National Council of Women
which grew out of the International, the Relief
Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. became connected
with that organization also, and they stand on the
same platform with all the other great organiza-
tions of women throughout the United States.
The President of the Relief Society and the
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. are Vice Presi-
dents (by virtue of that office) of the National
Council and the International Council, and have
 the privilege of their opinions and wishes being
considered and of a vote in any Executive meet-
ing of the officers, and are consulted when any
business of importance comes before the Board
to be transacted.
	They are also entitled to representation at any
meeting or session of the Council itself, and to
send one delegate who shall have the same privi-
lege as the President herself. This may seem a
very small thing to some people who do not un-
derstand what these great bodies of women are
doing, nor what importance their strength and
number gives to whatever they attempt in the way
of advancement, or reform. One individual alone,
or one organization alone may not get their ideas
presented in a way to be heard and considered,
but when a combination of great organized bodies
come with their expressed views and desires, it
carries with it a power and significance, that is
bound to get recognition, and representation.
	These great and grand Councils of womens'
Societies, Associations and Clubs, form what
might be termed a great Congress where they
represent their constituents in whatever is deter-
mined upon n their respective localities by those
interested in any great measure. They are there
to represent not themselves as individuals but the
organization that has made them its leader or
delegate.
	In view of all this and much more that might
be said upon the subject, and in view of the Relief
Society in its entirety, one can easily see how
essential and almost imperative it is, that such a
great body of women with common interests re-
siding in different locallities, and in many
countries should have special representation
through the press, and through a newspaper of
their own. It does not seem as though it need be
necessary to say to them what advantages it gives
and yet it has been said over and over, and many
of the very women who receive the benefits de-
rived from this source, do not know or compre-
hend the actual necessity of helping to sustain
even by subscription, the paper which for the last
twenty years has championed their cause and ad-
vocated the various improvements, and their re-
 sults, all along the line of march in which women
are steadily advancing to the higher plane of edu-
cation, progress and development, socially, politi-
cally, and spiritually.
	It is a truth, that what one has at home is less

[Column 3]

appreciated than what comes from abroad, and
the saying of the Scripture that "a prophet is not
without honor save in his own country," is also
true, and of many other things it is equally true;
but when one finds himself without that which he
has become daily accustomed to, then he realizes
how necessary, or advantageous, it was to his
welfare or well-being.
	In this Jubilee year of the Relief Society and
especially since it was decided to celebrate it ap-
propriately, as a recognition of woman's advance-
ment in the line in which the best and most
marked work has been done; the calls made from
all quarters, to give information on this and that,
and  answer questions, as to woman's work in the 
Society, and so many other things bearing upon
the same topics, has told more plainly and em-
phatically than ever before how lame the Society
would be without this paper for reference, and
how impossible it would be to keep posted, with-
out the help of the press.
	The writer has called to mind more vividly than
ever before the words of the late President
Brigham Young, when on one occasion he was
giving her some advice about conducting the
paper, said he, very positively, as was his usual
manner, "tell the sisters to take the EXPONENT
and keep it, for it will contain the record of their
work and a portion of Church history;" he also
added "and I give you a mission to write brief
sketches of the lives of the leading women of
Zion, and publish them." These are his exact
words as near as we remember and are written
down in the diary of the writer kept of daily
happenings.
	This celebration must be emphasized very
strongly through the press, and without an organ
expressly for women how could it have the same
prestige. The time has arrived when it has be-
come an actual necessity to awaken a greater
and more wide-spread interest. The matter has
been talked about in the Relief Society Confer-
ences and in different places in the country where
the sisters have visited and held meetings, but so
little has been accomplished in this way, that it is
scaacely noticable.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young in one of the General
Conferences of the Relief Society when urging
the sisters to sustain home papers etc, said, she
had advised in places where she had traveled and
thought it proper, to have two sisters appointed
in each ward to canvass for the EXPONENT—and
this is the counsel she gives now, that this be
done. One dollar a year is a very small item, but
if that is too much two or three can join and take
the paper together. And certainly before sub-
scribing for any paper outside the Territory, sus-
tain the one published in your own interest at
home; wherein you have the opportunity to rep-
resent yourself and the organizations with which
you are connected.
	It is to be hoped that this Jubilee will wake up
those that are indifferent to the growth and de-
velopment of women in this age and to the needs
of active help in the present; there is much to be
done in the work of reform and of educational
uplifting and many stand aloof and do not render
any assistance, and even ridicule those who are
brave and earnest and persevering; thinking it
uncalled for, because forsooth perhaps they have
some strong arm to lean upon, but how easy it
would be when thus protected, thus fortified, to
reach out a helping hand to those who stand as
it were alone, and there are many such.
	One of the important lessons which this grand
Jnbilee will possibly teach, or is likely to impress
upon all is that of love and union. Love is the
great power that will lift mankind to a higher
plane, true love, the love that brings out all the
best and noblest qualities of the human soul.
The love of God and the love of our fellow-men.
	This great and grand organization of the Relief
Society that has almost made a band around th


world is joined and linked in all its several
branches in one great whole, one almost perfect
circle; beginning in Illinois on the banks of the
Mississippi it has gone Westward, into the fast-
nesses of the Rocky Mountains, and South West
to the Sandwich Islands, and from thence to
Samoa, and across the continent, thence East
to the kingdoms of Europe, taking in
Great Britain and Holland, the countries of Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland to Asia Minor,
extending Southward to Australia, Tasmania and
New Zealand.
	This Society everywhere observes the same
uniformity of purpose and practises the same be-
nevolence, extends the same genial sympathy to
the needy, the sick and suffering, whether the
language spoken is the English, French, German,
Hawiian or whatever tongue is used, or whether
the climate in which the sisters reside is hot, or
cold, the same influence directs their works and
their labors, for they are all partakers of the same
Spirit which the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings to
all who embrace it with honest hearts and with
pure motives. That this Jubilee celebration will
more firmly and closely unite the hearts of the
sisters there can be no possible doubt.
	Te celebrate this occasion on the same day all
over the world wherever there are branches of
a Society whether large or small is an event of
peculiar significance, and one almost unheard of
in the annals of history. To be sure there have
been great gatherings in different lands when wo-
men delegates from other countries have met for
some given purpose, but when has a day been set
apart and observed in so many cities, towns and
countries and on both hemispheres and the
islands of the sea? When has there been a uni-
versal prayer offered by the women of any society
in all lands at once? Such an event has not tran-
spired in this age of the world, that there is any
record of. A solemn yet joyful occasion. It por-
tends more than we know. The day of woman's 
emancipation is at hand, already the dawn is be-
ing heralded. And while woman waits the signal
of victory, it is meet that she bows in humility
and prayer for the divine blessing, the inspiration
that only comes through the Holy Spirit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF PRES. JOS. F. SMITH.

	[Brief synopsis of remarks by Pres. Joseph F.
Smith, at a meeting in this City recently.] 
	He stated that he came to the meeting by in-
vitation, not knowing the object thereof, but was
informed that the meeting was called in the in-
terests of woman suffrage. He was in favor of
woman suffrage; and that women should enjoy all
the privileges and rights that the men enjoyed,
but he was not so ardent an advocate for women
to fill every and all of the offices which men filled,
as some others might be. He was not only will-
ing however, but desired that woman should be-
come eligible to such offices as she was fitted by
nature and ability to fill. He thought there were
some offices in civil government to which woman
was not suited by nature, and no amount of in-
telligence would adapt her thereto, for there
seemed to be offices requiring physical endurance
and exposures, exertions and strength and other
qualities, for which men were better fitted physic-
ally and mentally, than women. He wanted the
men to hold such offices, and the woman to be
promoted to such other positions and callings as
would better suit her physical conditions and
mental qualifications, and yet would place her on
an equality with man as to political, civil and
moral rights.
	He thought woman should not be deprived of
the power to acquire and hold property in her own
right, but should be placed on a par with man in
this regard. There was no reason why there
should be any discrimination between man and

[column 2]
woman in regards to property rights. Each should
be allowed to acquire and own property inde-
pendently of or jointly with each other, as suited
them best—and in that event there should be no
right of dower. 
	The woman who performed the same kind and
quality of work that a man did, should receive
therefore the same wages or pay. If a woman as
school teacher, clerk, accountant or cook ex-
celled a man in those same occupations, she
should receive superior pay, and it is a poor rule
that did not work both ways.
	He thought the women were making a mistake
in asking too much at once—not that they should
not have all that belonged to them, or of right
they should have, but, there were so many things
embraced in the woman’s right movement that
seemed formidable to many, very many men, and
also objectionable to them, that opposition to the
whole movement was the result. If the women
would confine their efforts to woman suffrage
and that alone until they got it, they would have
power in their hands to further contend for and
claim their privileges.
	There was no serious objection to their pos-
sessing the elective franchise, but most men re-
coiled at the thought of their wives, daughters,
mothers and sisters becoming policemen, sheriffs,
constables, jurors or soldiers. Woman suffrage
would meet with less opposition from men and
women too, if it were shorn of these concomi-
tants, and was presented in its more simple light.
	Congress is not the power to which the women
should look for emancipation, but the govern-
ments of the States themselves, as the State gov-
ernments had jurisdiction over the questions of
suffrage.
	He thought the women should organize their
forces, and begin systematic attacks upon one or
more of the states, or upon all of them at once,
aiming first and all the time at obtaining the elec-
tive franchise, and never quit nor faint until they
get it, then they will have the power in their own
hands to make themselves heard and heeded, and
may go on to perfection.
	The women of Utah once enjoyed the elective
franchise, and they used it wisely, and it was an
outrage that it was stricken from them, and he
hoped the day would soon come when it should
be restored to them, and if Utah ever becomes a
State, one of the first enactments her Legislature
should pass, should be an act restoring the suffrage
to woman—and making her equal to her husband 
in her right to acquire, and hold and manage her
own property.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	Meeting of the U. W. P. Club at the
Parlors of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT Office Feb.
27th, 1892.  Pres. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Opened with prayer by Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Minutes read and accepted.  Eight new names
were then unanimously sustained as members.
There were interesting letters of correspondence
read from Ellen Jakeman and L. L. Dalton ex-
pressing a deep interest in the work of the club,
and regrets for non-attendance.
	By laws having been arranged by the com-
mittee the secretary proceeded to read them as a 
whole and then in sections, but this business,
promising to consume the whole evening, was
laid upon the table with the name of N. V. Davis
added to the committee for revision.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of the
ladies the meeting then took the form of a birth-
day greeting to our President.  The members not
wishing to usurp the rights of those more closely 
allied in ties of kinship anticipated then by offer-
ing congratulations upon the 27th instead of the 
29th the natal day of our sister and dear friend and
President.
	An Illustrated volume of Geo. Elliot's poems


“Polite Society’' and a morocco bound Auto-
graphic Album were then presented to the Pres.
in behalf of members of the club. Congratulatory
speeches were made, and poems read by each
member present, expressive of tender love and
affection and true appreciation of the one each
desired to honor which were responded to in
fitting words of thanks—saying to those who all
seemed to vie with each other to pay honor
where honor is due, “Do not over estimate me,
but love me all you will, for love will yet rule the
world.”
	Delicious refreshments were served and social
chat indulged in till a late hour when all bade
adieu wishing our Pres. many happy returns of
her birthday even sixteen more. One loving
friend remarked “No wonder “Aunt Em’' remains
so young when she only has a birthday once in
four years at this rate she can live to be a
centenarian let’s hope that she may.”
						E. R. SHIPP, Sec.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

				Juarez, Feb. 18, 1892.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	One by one the “Lights along the Shore” are
 being hidden from our view by the shadow that
lies over the River, one by one our pillars of help
and strength are taken from us, one by one God’s
acre gathers them in and one by one the ran-
somed of the Lord are called home to the Father’s
mansions, dear Aunt Presendia, must we learn to
live without her too? Faithfully and true has
she finished her mortal labors, but her words of
counsel, of comfort and blessing will live in the
hearts of the hundreds she has helped to pass
through hours of trial and darkness. No words
of praise for her are needed, her life and works
are before the people, since the earliest days of
the Church, her faith, her hope, her prayers were
for the triumph of God’s Kingdom. Who ever
sought a blessing at her hands in vain, when did
she ever neglect a duty, not even bodily pain and
suffering stayed her work of blessing her sisters
in Zion. Once I said to her—"How often I have
seen your hands laid upon others to bless them,
but how seldom have I seen this done for you, do
you never feel weak and in need of a blessing?”
she looked at me with one of her pleasant smiles
and answered, “In blessing others I am blessed
I have proved this promise of Jesus to be true.”
What she has been to me and mine words can
never tell, she came to us in a sad hour of sorrow
long years ago, and ever since has been a true
unchanging friend and mother. May the memory
of her counsel and example still bear fruit in
Zion. Peace and rest to her weary body until the
resurrection morn.
	Glory and honor and joy be thine for ever
more, Dear Aunt Presendia.
							S. E. R.


R. S., Y. L. M. E. A., AND P. A.
			REPORTS.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society Conference of
Bear Lake Stake held in the Stake Tabernacle
at Paris, Nov. 27th, 1891, Pres Julia P.
Lindsay presiding. Singing, “Lord we come 
before thee now.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm. 
Budge. Singing, “Let those who would be
saints indeed.”
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay addressed the
Conference and said the Lord has said that
where a few are assembled in His name He
will be there to bless them, and He will do so
now.  
	Some branches of the Relief Society, were
represented as follows, Paris first and second
wards, Bloomington, Fish Haven, Ovid,


Montpelier and Dingle as being in good work-
ing order.
	Pres. Julia P. Lindsay was pleased with the
reports given, spoke of the importance of
attending meetings often; they had given the
Primaries a whole day for their Conference
that the children might have a chance to
develop themselves and prepare for the great
work they will be called to do, spoke of the
necessity of depending upon God for grace to
carry the work on, and humility to bring the
children up right. Said God would bless
His children, and help those who help them-
selves. Asked for the blessings of God to be
with all assembled.
	The minutes of the last Conference were
read and approved. Statistical and financial
report of the Stake Relief Society was
then read. 
	Pres. Wm. Budge spoke of the weakness
with which we have to contend, and said the
engagements of this life should not be first.
“This work and all connected with it is eternal;
it requires constant attention, and a continual
progression is necessary to a full salvation.”
Spoke of the necessity of assisting the sick
and poor; and of remembering God,if financial
surroundings were growing better, and said
that it mattered not how little means one
possessed, if it kept him from the service of
God he had too much. “We are receiving
blessings from God day by day, but are we
using them in the right way?”
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.
m. Singing, “Praise God.” etc. Closing
prayer by Bishop Robert Price.

	Afternoon session opened by singing,“Arise
0 Glorious Zion.” etc. Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge. Singing, “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc.
	Two other wards were then reported.
Pres. Julia P. Lindsay said she would like
all the Secretaries to send in correct reports
in good time, also spoke of improvement.
	Coun. Elizrbeth Collings bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work, said those
who have entered the waters of baptism should
have a testimony, and heed the teachings
given, that we may know whether we are in
the right church or not, if we heed the still,
small voice it will lead us into all truth. “The
Spirit which prompts to do right is the right
Spirit,” before she embraced the Gospel she
wonld read the scriptures, but she did not
understand them until the Spirit of God
explained all. “It is for us to know the
mysteries of the Kingdom, and many are
called but few are chosen. May we strive to
be faithful that we may have clear consciences."
	Sister Tumer bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, when she first heard
the Gospel she knew it was true and left all
to gather here, had never wished to go back,
the Gospel was sweeter to her than anything,
and there is nothing to live for but the Gospel;
was determined to do right; set an example to
the children and teach them to be faithful.
Testified of the blessings she had received
through faith. Said that when any one was
sick to go and pray in faith to God to heal
them, and if it was his will He would do so.
“We should hold fast to this good and great
work that we may be crowned with the faith-
ful.”
	Coun. Lizzie Hart spoke of filling the
mission of assisting the sick and poor, also of
improving now and not waiting for a better
time to come to improve the opportunities;
said when we are not in possession of the
Spirit of God all looks dark, but if we seek
for that true faith and pure Spirit all will be
bright; improve opportunities that we may be
fitted for a hard task, give attention to all
bad habits so that we can master and over-
come them, also of the strength and knowl-
edge obtaiued by attending meetings. “We
must overcome every obstacle in our path of
life, the Spirit of God teaches us to be charit-
able. We should pray for strength and
wisdom, that we may gain the prize for which
we have set out.”
	Secretary Nancy Allred said we should
trust in God for He will help us if we help
ourselves, but if we neglect our duties, we will
not have that confidence in God that we would
otherwise have. “It seem as though some-
times our labors are not appreciated. We are
not to be judged according to the actions of
others. Those who have their names enrolled
in these organizations, have a duty to perform,
and the more we attend meetings the more of
the Spirit we enjoy, and whatever is dictated
by the Spirit of God will interest us.” She
also expressed her willingness to help any
Secretary make a report.
	Sister Bonny said she had left all for the
Gospel, was thankful for hearing it and gather-
ing to Zion; her desire was to remain faithful,
she also related the trials through which she
had to pass when she first joined the Church,
but said the longer she lived the sweeter the
Gospel became to her as it makes us better
people. Asked God to help all to be faithful
that when the time comes, we could enter into
the glory of God.
	Sister Sutton also bore a faithful testimony
in regard to the truth of this work, and asked
for the prayers of all present that she might
endure to the end.
	Pres Julia P. Lindsay further addressed the
Conference urged the sisters to patronize the
“Woman’s Exponent.” “Why are we taught
to meet often if it is not essential?” Spoke of
the blessings we all enjoy from God, and
testified of the blessings she had received.
“We should remember we are the chosen
people of God, and not let ourselves be carried
away with the things of this life but remember
the source from which everything comes and
He that giveth can take away.” Spoke of
the benefits to be derived by attending meet-
ings, and of'praying for grace that we can
bear the trials. Gave some good instructions
in regard to taking care of the wheat received
in the society, and expressed a desire to do all
duties required of her.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Mid Scenes of Confussion,”  etc.
Benediction by Elder James Collings.
		SYLVIA BROOMHEAD Cor. Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

			MINERSVILLE  W. S. A.
	If you will give us space in the columns of
your most valuable paper I will endeavor to
let the readers know that the W. S. A. of
Minersville is doing well, we have 13 names
enrolled on our books; our society is in the
third year of its organization, we take three
papers viz: the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Woman's
Tribune and Woman’s Column; we have
monthly meetings the first Tuesday in every
month, and through the kindness of Bishop
Walker we hold our meetings in the meeting
house. At our meeting in December a motion
was made that we have a Leap Year party the
first day of January 1892 and also all the
members of the W. S. A. wear a badge of
yellow ribbon with the letters W. S. A. printed
on each. The flag for Wyoming was made
and graced the walls of the room, together
with the stars and stripes of the National flag,
also the representative women of the nation.
The woman’s flag looked lovely, was ten feet
long and the single star in the field of blue
looked lonely, with just the one star and no
more. A short speech was made by the Presi-
dent.
	Success to all the ladies in this New Year in


all their labors, and to the papers that send
their messages forth.
				ADA ROLLINS, Pres.

		SPEECH MRS. ADA ROLLINS.

	Ladies and Gentlemen: The flag you see
before us, that graces the walls so beautifully
is called the woman’s flag of Wyoming, and
the single star well represents that there is one
state in the Union in which women have the
same rights as men, the right of franchise.
And for the benefit of those who seemingly
think it smart to pass some remarks about
woman suffrage, let them pause and consider
if their own dear mothers, sisters and sweet-
hearts too if you please, had not ought to en-
joy that boon that every Liberty-loving peo-
ple who are true Americans would wish them
to enjoy. There is something wonderfully
thrilling and pathetic in the devotion of the
woman suffrage advocates to the flag of the
one star which typifies to them the youngest
of our commonwealth, and the first true Re-
public.  It is the woman’s flag that has the
place of honor at all their public gatherings.
The stripes represent our country to which we
are most loyal with an undaunted determina-
tion to help it to realize the glorious future of
which its proud past has been the prophecy.
But of all the states we honor most, the state
which alone has dared to make women free
citizens, Wyoming.  What a wonderful object
lesson in the great struggle for human freedom
is this Lone Star flag? How can woman see it
and not be fired with enthusiasm. How can
men fail to be moved by it to that patriotism
and chivalry which would make other states
equally just and dear to woman.
	The pictures of those Ladies on either side
of the flag, are ladies who have for fifty years
labored long and earnestly for woman’s eman-
cipation, who like our fathers thought taxa-
tion without representation was not right nor
just.  The one to the right of the flag is Susan
B. Anthony, on the left is Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, these names will be handed down
from generation to generation like those of our
Revolutionary fathers who fought, bled and
died for liberty.
	Then three cheers for our flag and the state
of Wyoming.


W. S. PARTY AT PAYSON, UTAH.

	The Social Hand Shake Party given in Pay-
son on the 13th of Feb. was as near as pos-
sible a complete social and instructive enter-
tainment. Singing, music and dancing, inter-
spersed with recitations, speeches, and social
hand shaking was the order. One speech
given by the Right Rev. Todd, deserves to
be printed verbatim and placed in every wo-
man's hand throughout the Territory.

SPEECH BY PRESIDENT MRS. L. J.  WIGHTMAN.
	Ladies, Members and Friends:—We are
very happy to meet you here this evening;
socially, and we would be pleased could we say
Politically on the same broad plain of Justice
and Equality, though we feel assured that ere
long justice will open wide her doors to women.
From time immemorial, Might held the Power
to make laws and call them right and so en-
force them, by this reasoning women being 
weaker than men have occupied the lowest
place, as among the savage nations and history
tells us with but few exceptions among the
most enlightened nations, that women over the
greater part of the globe today are humble
companions, playthings, captives and beasts of
burden. 
	In England the Nobility established their
privileges as they grew in power. The work-
ing class of men are allowed to vote and hold
office because as their power and might in-


creased they would not be put down, and so
claimed their rights and obtained them. But
women having no physical power to force
their rights must obtain them by some other
means, or be forever slaves; now it is conceded
by all men that as the world increases in
knowledge that justice and intelligence are
supreme in framing the laws that govern all.
Then we must look to justice and reason,
which plainly ask, ‘‘Why shonld not the in-
terests of women be consulted with as much
impartiality as the interests of men? this was
first broached in the nineteenth century and
since has steadily grown till it has become a
political movement, and therefore a subject of
general interest. Now we claim by the light
of political reasoning endorsed by Justice and
intelligence that every individual whether male
or female is born with an equal right to the
protection and consideration of the law, and
if so to secure this right every one man or
women is entitled to and must have the fran-
chise or privilege to vote. Now justice has
given this right to every male without regard
to creed or color. Why in the name of justice
under the broad banner of intelligence should
she withhold the right to protect women by
vote, simply because we are women? No, she
will not long, she cannot. We are neither
Minors, Idiots, Lunatics, or Criminals, but wo-
men, Mothers of the nations of the earth, rock-
ing, the cradles, that rule the states, we say
give us our rights and liberty the right of
suffrage the same as enjoyed by the sons we
rear for our country's good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO PRESENDIA KIMBALLS.

	THE notice we publish below is from one of
the New York papers, and is a brief sketch
of the life of the aunt (father’s sister) of the
late lamented Presendia L. Kimball, and is the
one for whom she was named. It shows how
nearly alike in many respects those two women
were, and how their lives run in the same
channel of benevolent work. Probably no
woman in this Church has prepared more of
the dead for burial than Sister Presendia L.
Kimball.—Ed.
	DEATH OF MRS. PRESENDIA KIMBALL.
	Mrs. Presendia Kimball died at her home,
27 Washington street, last evening, at the ripe
old age of 93 years, 3 months and 3 days.
Mrs. Kimball was one of the oldest residents of
Watertown and of Jefferson County. She was
a daughter of Wm. Huntington. Early in life
she was married to Joseph Kimball, one of the
first settlers in this section, and who for twenty
years was prominently identified with the
business interests of Jefferson County. Joseph
Kimball came here from the Mohawk Valley
before the war of 1812, and during the war of
1812 was an officer in the military command
at Sacket’s Harbor. After the war he was en-
engaged in business at Sacket’s Harbor. He
was a builder and contractor, and while in this
business built the barracks at Sackets, the old
courthouse in Watertown,the Jefferson County
Institute, and other structures well known to
old residents. When Mr. Kimball was mar-
ried to Presendia Huntington he settled in
Watertown, and it is a notable fact that the
place at No. 27 Washington street was the
home of both from the time they began house-
keeping until their death. Mr. Kimball died
thirty years ago. 
	Mrs. Kimball was a life-long member of the
First Presbyterian Church in Watertown, and
before age compelled her to retire from active
work, was one of the most useful and energetic
workers. Many of the older people in Water-
town remember kind offices performed by her
in years gone by. She liyed to see most of her
own generation pass away; indeed, it may be
said that she is almost the last of the early


settlers of this town. She lived to see a city
grow up around her, while the places of those
known to her in youth were filled with
strangers.
	To show how deceased had observed the
passing away of neighbors and friends it may
be mentioned that in the early days before the
village of Watertown boasted of a professional
undertaker, it was the custom of some kind
neighbor to prepare the bodies of the dead for
burial. During her lifetime Mrs. Kimball
performed this last sad duty upon the death of
more than one hundred of her neighbors in the
village of Watertown, south of the Public
Square. 
	Mrs. Kimball was the mother of five child-
ren, two of whom, Mr. J. C. Kimball and Mrs.
H. H. Kellogg, of this city, survive her. She
was a kind neighbor, a devoted mother, and an
exemplary Christian woman.


[column 1]

	WOMAN'S STATUS IN SWEDEN.
	The Swedish girl, unlike her German cousin
is an individual first of all. Her life begins
with the conviction of those about her that
she is destined to be of some importance in
the world in which she lives, and as she lives
and as she grows she learns to be and to do.
			HER EDUCATION.
	The education of the Swedish girl is similar
to that of her brothers, and if she choose she 
can take an academic course.
	The schools, which are under  Government
supervision, supply not only good, but ample
means of improvement, and the Swedish
woman is a cultivated and a learned member
of society. She is an object of interest to all
who meet her and holds her place in what-
ever discussion may be under way. She is
womanly and is possessed of all a woman's
accomplishments, but she is intellectual as
well. Lady Wilde, who writes enthusiastically
of these Northern sisters, tells us that intel-
lectual women hold a higher position than is
granted them in England. That in Sweden
the peerage of the intellect holds sway, and
that able women are treated with distinction
and are honored for their attainments quite
apart from any consideration of birth.
	If, indeed, we may believe all that the com-
mentators on Sweden and its people tell us, the
Swedish woman is queen of women.
		HER SYSTEMATIC TRAINING.
	The State devotes special attention to the
education of the girls and provides for such
trained to serve, and all intermediate pursuits
self-supporting. All grades of work are
taught. Governesses are trained to teach,
servants are trained to serve, and all inter-
mediate pursuits are open to those who wish
to learn, so that the girl who is thrown upon
her own resources is fully equipped for the
battle of life. She is provided with the
implements of work and her labor brings her
honor and respect.
	In the political world the Swedish woman
takes her part, and her opinions are sought by
the men of her family and acquaintance. As
yet the franchise is not hers, but it is thought
by those who know that in this reform Sweden
may yet lead the way. Her women are ripe
to take the responsibility of the change; they
are a thoughtful and an educated body, and
already their counsels are sought by the
masculine pastors and masters.
			QUEENS OF SOCIETY.
	Education is not confined to the few, but is
obligatory, to a certain degree, upon all, so
that the Swedish women throughout the land
are able to understand and to contend with
the problems of the day.
	As girls they are an inspiration to their 
brothers, to their lovers and to their friends;

[column 2]

as wives they are the chosen companions of
their husbands, and as mothers they guide
and educate the children who will follow after
them. They are honored in their homes,
sought after in society, and, in short, occupy a
place in the world not unlike our home.
	In society the Swedish women are leaders
when so inclined, ornaments always: in politics
they are the friends and counselors of those
who rule, and in their homes they are queens.
		THEY ARE NOT COQUETTES.
	They are good linguists, well read and
discourse with grace and decision as if their
opinions were of some importance in a discus-
sion. Intellect, good sense and graceful
dignity are their characteristics, not coquetry
or love of vain display. Many of them are
writers; indeed, very many have published a
volume of some kind or other, prose or verse.


PRESS WOMEN IN THE WORLD’S
		CONGRESS AUXILIARY.
	At the meeting of the National Federation
of Women’s Press Clubs in Boston, last
November, Miss Mary Allen West, chairman
of the woman’s committee of the World’s Con-
gress Auxiliary on Weeklies and Magazines,
presented an outline of its plans and work
and requested the cooperation of the press wo-
men present. These plans have been formu-
lated and published in a circular, from which
we quote:
	In the comprehensive plan of the World’s
Congress Auxiliary, two departments have
been assigned to the work of press women, that
of a Public Daily Press Congress, under the
able superintendence of Miss Mary H. Krout,
and this one on Weeklies and Magazines.
	The weekly press comprises country news-
papers—the best read and the most thoroughly
believed journals—illustrated literary papers,
like Harper's Weekly, religious and reform
journals. Magazines may be classified as
literary, educational, philanthropic, scientific,
historical, legal, artistic, musical, juvenile,
fashion magazines and trades journals. This
classification is not rigidly inclusive nor exclu-
sive. It is impossible to draw the lines closely
where the difierent classes so often interlap.
	Some of the topics suggested for thought
and discussion are:
	I. THE WORK AND INFLUENCE OF THE
				PRESS WOMEN.

	a. Through the country family paper.
	b. On religious thought.
	c. In elevating educational ideas, and bring-
ing them into closer correspondence with child-
nature.
	d. On reform movements.
	e. In forming literary tastes and stand-
ards.
	f. In philanthropy.
	g. As writers for children.
	h. In household economics, in history and
art.
	i. Through fashion magazines, in regard to
correct taste, health and household adorn-
ment.
	j. As editors of trades journals.
	The woman’s work on the paper may be
that of editor-in chief, determining its policy
and writing its editorials; she may be con-
tributing editor, or she may edit contributions,
correspondence and news, seldom writing
original articles, but performing the equally
important function of weighing the work of
others and deciding on its merits and adapta-
bility. She may shape public opinion through
contributed articles, or keep the paper’s con-
stituency in touch with the wide world through
correspondence. Again, she may edit a special
department, for whose conduct she is held re-
sponsible.


II. These varying duties suggest a second
set of topics:

			WOMAN'S WORK.
	a. As editor-in-chief.
	b. As contributing editor.
	c. As contributor or correspondent.
	d. As news-gatherer.

	III. WOMAN’S WORK AS PUBLISHER AND
			BUSINESS MANAGER.

			IV. GENERAL TOPICS.
	a. The future possibilities for women in
newspaper and magazine work.
	b. International copyright, and the laws of 
intellectual property and commerce.
	c. What is the effect upon the individual
woman of engaging in journalism?
	d. What is the effect upon the home life of
those who engage in it?
	e. What is the best training for journalism?
Can it be taught in the schools? 
	f. The industrial and economic aspects of
the question—comparative compensation of
men and women editors, writers and business
managers.
	The preliminary duties of the World’s Con-
gress Auxiliary are to unify the work along a
given line all over the world, to stimulate
thought which shall lead to practical results,
and to arrange for the interchange of views at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893. There is
to be, in connection with the Men’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary, a Press Con-
gress for the discussion of living themes. We
also propose conferences of press women for
more informal discussion of themes of special
interest to them as workers.
	The Illinois Woman’s Press Association with
headquarters at Chigago, has secured a com-
mittee room in the Woman’s Building, where
press women from every part of the world will
be cordially welcomed and given such assist-
ance as they require. Here informal confer-
ences will be held, and arrangements are made
for a Press Woman’s Conference in the As-
sembly Hall of the same building. The Asso-
ciation has also applied for space in the Press
Building for regular women correspondents,
where they will have the benefits of telegraphic
and telephonic communications, with all other
needful appliances.
	This, imperfectly sketched, is the work in
which we invite the press women, of the world
to cooperate. They can assist in carrying it
on in the following ways:
	1. By circulating this preliminary plan as
widely as possible, translating where necessary
that women of every tongue may become ac-
quainted with it. Send copies of papers in
which it is printed to the chairman of this
committee.
	2. Send the names of women in various
countries who would do effective work as mem-
bers of our Advisory Counsel.
	3. Study the proposed topics, suggest others
you desire to have discussed, and send names
of women you consider best qualified to take
part in the discussions.
	4. We wish a list of all weeklies and magazines
in all languages, edited or published by wo-
men. Kindly assist, in making this list com-
plete by sending us the names of all such
papers.
	5. The Press Conferences in connection with 
the World’s Congress Auxiliary will probably
occur some time in May, 1893. All women’s
Press Associations are invited to send dele-
gates. The suggested basis of representation
is one delegate for every twenty regular mem-
bers.
	All communications in regard to this depart-
ment should be addressed to Mary Allen West,
Chairman, 359 Claremont Avenue, Chicago,
U. S. A. Mrs. Nancy Hustin Banks, of the
Bureau of Publicity and Promotion, is vice-

[Column 2]
chairman, and Mrs. Mary Stewart Armstrong,
of the Elite News, Chicago, is secretary of the
committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.

	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
are requested to forward their semi-annnal
reports of the last six months immediately to
the Assistant Secretary, Dr. R. B. Pratt.
206 N. Second West, Salt Lake City and be
sure and send the address of the President
and Secretary with the signatures attached.
	E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec.

	    W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	A Territorial Convention of the N. A. W.
S. A. of Utah will be held about the time of
the April Conference, at which it is desirable
there should be Delegates from each Auxiliary
W. S. A. in the Territory, prepared to give
a report of the Association represented.
	E. B. WELLS, Ch, Pub. Com.

 MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS—10 a. m., to 4. 8 to 6 p. m

[Column 2]

	THE	WOMAN’S	TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, S1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E.
	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
	
R.K THOMAS
26,28,30and32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

[Image of Rio Grande Logo]
	THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
	 AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
	Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
	IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE,  A. E. WELBY,  J. H. BENNETT,
	Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.

		DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to. 
	DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


Mrs. J. F. Russel, of Topeka, Kan., has
been appointed to succeed her husband, lately
deceased, as superintendent of the county
poor-farm.

	In the Iowa House of Representatives, the
bill to grant women presidential suffrage was
refered to the woman suffrage committee, who
on Feb. 25 recommended its indefinite post-
ponement, four Republicans and all the
Democrats voting against it.

	The Writers’ Club, London, was formally
opened at No. 190 Fleet, on Jan. 30. It
provides a place where women engaged in
literary and journalistic wotk can write in
silence, dine, see the newspapers, and meet
their friends.

	The committee for women’s work of the
English world’s Fair Commission are; Princess
Christian, of Schleswig-Holstein, president,
the Marchioness of Salisbury, the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, the Countess of Aberdeen,
Lady Alfred Churchill, Lady Agnes Buren,
Lady Brassey, Lady Knutsford, Lady Galton,
Lady Jeune, Lady Roberts, Mrs. Carmichael,
Mrs. Fawcett, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Miss
Forcyth, Mrs. Priestly, Mrs. Roberts-Austen,
Mrs. Tyssen Amherst,and Miss Fay Lankester.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

	Resolutions of respect to Sarah Thornton Coleman who
departed this life March 1st 1892, having been our beloved
president of the Relief Society, for eleven years, from 1868
to 1879: we her co-laborers in meeting assembled, deem
it fitting that we record our appreciation of her labors.
	Whereas:— in the providence of Almighty God, we have
beeu called to mourn the loss of our beloved sister and
friend, who having led a noble life, worthy of imitation, we
her sisters desire to testify to the same, and desire by the
help of God to emulate her example.
	Be it resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to her family in this their sad bereavement, having lost a
loving mother and friend, desiring the divine healer of
all sorrow to shed His benign influence to sustain them
in this their hour of trial.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be presented
to the family, be also entered on the Relief Society
records, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and to
the Lehi Banner.
					MRS. MARTHA P. THOMAS,
					MRS. BARBARA A. EVANS,
					MRS. REBECCA STANDRING,
					MRS MARY ANN DAVIS,
					MRS MELISSA WILLIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

