VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1891.	No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	A Midnight Meditation—Mary Y. Corby. In 
Rural England—A Story.  Our National Flower
—M. Sears Brooks. Cheerfulness—Minnie Hul-
bert.  Woman's Rights—Sarah B. Layton.
"Obedience"—Jane John.  R. S. Report.  A
Picture of Home—Dr. J. G. Holland.  The Train-
ing of a Nurse—Mary Cadwalader Jones.  Wimo-
daughsis Club House—Emma M. Gillett.
Personals. Miscellaneous. 
	Editorial:—Women in the World's Fair. 
Editorial Notes.  Death of Mary Ann Pratt.  W.
C. M. and M. Institution—Gladys Woodmansee, 
Sec. Pacific Coast Women's Press Association.
Letter From Mexico—M. A Mistake Corrected
—M. E. K. 
	Poetry:—God O'er Ruleth All Things Right
—Emily H. Woodmansee.  Weaving the Web—
Julia C. F. Dorr.  A Fragment—E. B. W. The 
Oregonia—C. Horatio Jessen.


GOD O'ER RULETH ALL THINGS
RIGHT.

When our narrow-sighted vision—
Cannot trace th' Eternal aim!—
Let us wait His wise decision, 
Let us trust Him still the same. 
Past our feeble comprehension—
Is God's comprehensive care, 
Yet we know that all who seek Him—
Need not perish in despair.

Never can consistent goodness—
Heed the fledgeling raven's cry—
And neglect His suffering children—
Or His promised aid deny.
The beneficent Creator—
Kindly watches over all—
And without His gracious notice
E'en a sparrow cannot fall.

Bruised reeds shall not be broken—
Smoking flax shall not be quench'd;
E'en though many a pain and sorrow
Must be borne—and keenly sens'd. 
Griefs that seem to tear asunder—
Tender'st fibres of the heart—
Are but chords to draw us to Him
Who alone can heal the smart.

Crush'd and bruis'd—are sweetest blossoms—
All their fragrance to distill;
Precious souls are tried and proven—
Love's own purpose to fulfill.
Humbly let us bow before Him?—
Who from gloom evolveth light?
And with trusting hearts acknowledge—
God, o'er ruleth all things right.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


WEAVING THE WEB.
"This morn I will weave my web," she said,
	As she stood by her loom in the rosy light,
And her young eyes, hopefully glad and clear,
	Followed afar the swallow's flight.
"As soon as the day's first tasks are done,
	While yet I am fresh and strong," said she,
"I will hasten to weave the beautiful web
	Whose pattern is known to none but me!

"I will weave it fine, I will weave it fair,
	And ah! how the colors will glow!" she said.
"So fadeless and strong will I weave my web
	That perhaps it will live after I am dead."
But the morning hours sped on apace;
	The air grew sweet with the breath of June;
And young Love hid by the waiting loom,
Tangling the threads as he hummed a tune.


"Ah! life is so rich and full," she cried,
	"And morn is short though the days are long!
This noon I will weave my beautiful web,
	I will weave it carefully, fine and strong."
But the sun rode high in the cloudless sky;
	The burden and heat of the day she bore;
And hither and thither she came and went,
	While the loom stood still as it stood before.

"Ah! life is too busy at noon," she said;
	"My web must wait till the eventide,
Till the common work of the day is done,
	And my heart grows calm in the silence wide!',
So, one by one, the hours passed on
	Till the creeping shadows had longer grown;
Till the house was still and the breezes slept,
	And her singing birds to their nests had flown.

"And now I will weave my web," she said,
	As she turned to her loom ere set of sun,
And laid her hand on the shining threads
	To set them in order, one by one.
But hand was tired, and heart was weak;
	"I am not as strong as I was," sighed she,
"And the pattern is blurred, and the colors rare
	Are not so bright, or so fair to see!

"I must wait, I think, till another morn;
	I must go to my rest with my work undone;
It is growing too dark to weave!" she cried,
	As lower and lower sank the sun.
She dropped the shuttle; the loom stood still;
	The weaver slept in the twilight gray.
Dear heart!  Will she weave her beautiful web.
	In the golden light of a longer day?
	JULIA C. F. DORR.


A MIDNIGHT MEDITATION.

   Our Father! who does not love those endear-
ing words?  Some of us can look back to days
of our earliest childhood and remember when
our earthly father took us by the hand and led
us to the house of God to mingle with His
people in his worship.  We remember with
what confidence we placed ourselves in his
care--how perfectly safe we felt, how happy 
in his company as he led us to the place "where
prayer was wont to be made," and how we
loved him, for was he not our father.
   Some of us can remember when our earthly
father was laid among the "clods of the valley."
and we lost his protection, his counsel and
perhaps his help, and we shall see him no more
until the resurrection of the just, but we have
still our Father in heaven, who cares for us
more than any earthly parent can do.  He
permits us to be called, "The sons and
Daughters of the Lord Almighty" The beloved
disciple John says.  "Behold! what manner
of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God."
Notwithstanding this we have often sinned
against Him and the fruits of our disobedience
have been bitter, because it has caused Him to
hide His face from us, but when like the
prodigal we have returned to Him with contri-
tion of spirit, confessing our sins and wayward-
ness, He has been ready and willing to forgive,
and the still, small voice of love has whispered
to us. "Return unto me, and I will return
unto you," Let us then examine ourselves
and see how we stand in relation to our
Heavenly Father. Let us look back again a
few years and call to mind how we treated our
earthly father.  how we received him, how
willing to run at his call and do his bidding,
how dutiful and obedient—even when he


chastised us, we loved him, for we had confi-
dence in his superior wisdom, and felt that he
knew best what was good for us, and "If we
had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and
we gave them reverence, shall we not much
rather be in subjection to the Father of Spirits
and live."
	We have not minds large enough to compre-
hend all the goodness our Heavenly Father has
manifested towards us.  Even in our primeval
state, we were upheld by His power and good-
ness, and when it pleased him to permit us to
come to earth, His watchful eyes was still
over us for good, and none have more fully
experienced the watchful care of our Father in
heaven, than the Latter-day Saints, to whom he
has revealed the Everlasting gospel, also His
mind and will concerning us.  He has gra-
ciously made known unto us by commandment
what our duty is, and by promises what we
may look forward to, if we keep his perfect
law.  Our time of trial here will be but short,
when we shall pass behind the veil—to mingle
with Prophets and Patriarchs and all who have
fulfilled the requirements of the Gospel. Let
us at all times, seek to possess the Spirit of God
and live nearer to Him—"Nearer my God to 
Thee—Nearer to Thee."
		MARY Y. CORBY.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
  		I
   Descriptive passages in a story are not always
acceptable to the public, nevertheless one can-
not well avoid dwelling upon romantic scenery
when writing of a country as charming as 
England, and especially the rural districts;
one reads of them with delight, but what must
it be to see and wander through such
picturesque scenes, and places as are familiar
to the native-born English man or woman.
   In one of the most beautiful parts of the
country a young maiden was wandering alone,
her eyes were downcast, as though her thoughts
were intensely occupied, she stopped now and
then a moment in her walk to pluck a wild
flower, and then nervously picked it to
pieces, and scattered the leaves to the soft sum-
mer breeze.  Evidently she was much perplexed;
sometimes she would pause for a moment as if
she would retrace her steps, and then dart
rapidly forward, looking about her as though
in doubt or fear.
   As she neared the outskirts of a magnificent
forest she glanced cautiously around, then
plunged, as it were into the thicket of under-
growth that hemmed in the woods.  As she
did so she listened now and again like one in
alarm.  Why had she ventured thus far alone,
she, who was always so well attended?  her
face, her manner everything about her betok-
ened one of "gentle blood."  Her figure was
slight and willowy, her slender arms and neck
were of the most graceful contour, her hair
loosely twisted was falling from the pearls with
which it had been fastened and shimmered in
the sunlight like burnished gold.  Her dress
was of some soft airy fabric, of that charming
sea-green color that reminds one of a sea-nymph, 
over her shoulders she had thrown in the most
néglige fashion, a rich India cream colored 
shawl, a leghorn hat was tied with lute-string
ribbon under her fine cut dimpled chin; her
cheeks were glowing with the flush of excite-
ment and as she stood in the thick of that deep


[column 1]
wood, she trembled and shivered like the leaves
above her.  She seemed too restless to be seat-
ed but paced up and down between the tall
stately beechwoods, and ocasionally stamped
her dainty little foot as though in anger to be
kept waiting.  Anon a sound was heard in the 
distance and she listened anxiously at first but
afterwards more in fear, for she had percieved
that the noise was the gallop of a horse instead
of footsteps as she had expected. How is it 
that when danger approaches one loses all
presence of mind and seeks safety in any way 
except to brave it openly?
	In this way those who wish to escape obser-
vation often betray themselves, whereas by
self-possession and presence of mind they might
avoid suspicion and matters be easily 
explained.
	In this particular instance the young lady 
was very much disconcerted; and when the 
horseman approached nearer to where she stood
she leaped on stepping stones across a winding
stream into the very depths of the rushes and 
willows on the opposite side, her feet sinking 
into the marshy ground.  On the mossy banks
of this clear pebbly brook she had loved to lin-
ger until the dark shadows warned her that the 
sun was setting, and her maid who was always
with her in these rambles, would chide her for
staying so late, lest she should take cold from
the dew; now she neither feared cold or damp
nothing but having her whereabouts exposed.
	Nearer and nearer came the horse's hoofs
until it seemed as though the ground was giv-
ing way under her feet,and as if the footprints
of the horse's hoofs were penetrating to her
very heart; she did not weep, she did not scream,
not even pray; she knew though her brain was
dizzy with excitement, that the plans she
had contrived to shun observation had been 
discovered; yet could not imagine how,—"did 
her father know?" was her first rational thought,
for it so, she would rather die there than brook
hsi anger—"Hello, Hello" shouted the rider
as he cracked his whip again and again, until 
the echoes ran through the woods.  Simultan-
eously with the call of the rider came the heavy
tread of a man's footsteps cracking the brush
and dry branches as he hastily strode along,
for not finding his sweetheart at the trysting
place, the impatient young lover pressed for-
ward peering here and there, but hearing the
"Hello" scarce knew which course to take.
At the moment he caught sight of the 
horse and its rider, he also detected a glimpse
of something on the other side of the brook
not far off, and suspected it to be the one they
were both in search of.  Quick as thought he
called, "What ho! fair lady what brings you 
here at such speed?  whom seek you at this
hour, some recreant lover? know you not there
is danger for one so young and fair?"  The 
young man spoke almost incoherently, and 
sprang hastily forward to assist the lady to
alight.  In the same breath almost the lady
replied testily I only seek my cousin who came
in this direction unattended and I fear some
ill chance has befallen her; she is not used to
stray away in this fashion, and it bodes no
good;" and as if fearing to betray the emotion
she felt the speaker paused, for she would not
have him suspect what she really thought lest
he should baffle her.
	"O, your cousin is safe let me assure you,she
is not hereabouts or we should see her; why
should she come to this lonely place, it doth
not suit a gay young girl's mood,she is always 
singing and laughing as merry as the warbling
birds or the rippling brooks that run on forever,
let me help you to mount your horse and I
will accompany you to the edge of the wood,
and you will cross the fields swiftly and reach-
ing home find your fair cousin there before
you." "No! No! she is here somewhere you
 must help me find her, my uncle will miss her
on his return and every one at the Castle will
be called out to seek her, night is coming, I
must find her," and the poor girl almost
screamed so great her agitation was becoming.
"I believe she has crossed the stream I will find
her at all hazards," and without another word,
she sprang acrose the brook before the young
man could intercept her way, soon she heard a 
low moan a little farther back and there lay
her fair cousin prone upon the damp earth
among the tall rushes; "Help! Help! quick,
cried the girl and with a bound the young man
sprang to the spot and lifting the prostrate
form in his strong arms carried her to a rock
near by and they bathed her face and chafed
her hands; until consciousness began to return;
the ardent, impassioned lover looked at the 
brave young horsewoman, who seemed so self-
posessed, while he trembled, as if to ask what
could be done, she returned his glance with
a look of scorn; decision at such a time was
necessary and this young woman was strong
and firm as well as brave. Carry Mis Hil-
liard to the other side," and following quickly
she loosened her horse, jumped into the saddle
and bidding him lift up his burthen, he laid her
in the arms of her heroic but indignant cousin,
and with out a word to the disappointed lover,
she gave rein toher good steed and was soon out
of sight; across the fields she fairly flew, she felt
not the weight in her arms, she only thought of 
safety to the beautiful young creature, so 
crushed and helpless; as she neared the Castle
however she pondered how she could avoid
suspicion. She had taken the horse for a ride
in the fields, the groom would question why
she stayed so late, besides how could she get
down with her cousin in her arms; and who
would be in the way, she considered all this,
but fate was propitious, the coast was clear;
there seemed no one about, she rode cautious-
ly up the long avenue, and stopped in a 
secluded place; all this time her cousin had
not spoken or made a sound, she was too
humiliated to know what to say, benumbed with
cold and fear, her very heart seemed paralyzed.
She knew not what to expect but felt death
would be a relief.  Just as one tries to arouse
those who are dying of cold, so the brave 
cousin of Miss Hilliard tried to make her un-
derstand she must exert herself, and strange
to say she succeeded. Almost without her
own volition she slid herself down at the steps
of her father's castle and crept rather than
walked up the steps and hallway into the
house; her cousin following, leaving the horse
without waiting for a servant, fearing questioning
might follow.
	Once inside Miss Hilliard was undressed by
her cousin Jane and assisted into bed, the family
physician was duly summoned, who pronounced
the case one of nervous prostration, and no
one in the house except the cousin knew what
had brought on this serious illness.  Cousin
Jane had removed all the disordered clothing,
before even the maid had been summoned,
and there lay the patient, pale and listless
when the Dr. arrived. "Where is Sir Ed-
ward?" inquired Dr. Hammond.  "Gone up to
London," was the answer given by the maid
in waiting.  "Is there any danger then?" said
cousin Jane anxiously, "No! no! only I thought
her father might like to know just how his
daughter was, she is very ill, quite low, but
not dangerous."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR NATIONAL FLOWER.

	If the question of a National Flower has
not been decided, why not place the matter in 
the hands of the Woman’s Board of Manage-
ment of the Columbian Exposition for final 
settlement? Wherever a flower has been 
adopted by any country, it has been because
that in some way it represented some historic
event or some characteristic quality by which


it became symbolic. Perhaps we have no
flower that approaches these conditions more
nearly than the Wild Columbine.
	First, because it wears our national colors. 
Growing in every section of our country, its
color at the South is more often blue; at the
North it is white; in the Middle and Western
States it is red, with a golden interior. Its 
name, “Columbine” is derived from the same
Latin word as that of Columbus, the discov-
erer of our country, and of Columbia, the
name our nation rightly bears; also of the dis-
trict where our nation’s capital is fixed; of one
of our largest rivers, of one of our most im-
portant colleges, and of numerous towns and 
villages in every State of the Union; last, but
not least, of the name of our great exposition 
itself.
	Botanically, the Wild Columbine belongs to 
the genus Aquilegia, thus bearing a double 
significance. The word Aquilegia is derived
from the Latin Aquila, or eagle, the emblem of
dignity and might, and our nation’s chosen
emblem. From the foregoing we may assume
a symbolic claim on the part of the Wild
Columbine to be regarded as our national 
flower to which no other flower can pretend.
	In its typical character we see that it grows
and thrives under the most adverse circum-
stances, clinging to the bare rock, even as our 
forefathers did when first they opened their
eyes upon a new world. Like the eagle it
chooses the highest cliffs for its dwelling,
courageously overhanging the deepest and
most dangerous precipices. Its trumpet-shaped
petals cluster around a central shaft, typify-
ing the tongues of many nations joined in one.
It dances just as gaily in its wildwood home as
in the highly-cultured garden, its only change
under cultivation being a multiplicity of
trumpets, one within another, to sound the 
praises of a free and glorious country. It has
all the delicate beauty and power of endurance
belonging to American womanhood; all the
courage and hardihood of America’s noble
sons. Like the voices of our honored states-
men, the trumpet-shaped petals, their office
fulfilled, fall singly, one by one, beautiful to 
the last, leaving the central shaft which they 
protected, fruitful with seed for coming gen-
erations. 
	Graceful in poise, attractive in form, under
no circumstances becoming a noxious weed, 
wearing an air of prosperity as it swings its
dainty bells from the crevices of bare rocks,
what more can be said of any flower, as the 
emblem of American independence and thrift,
than may be said for the Wild Columbine?
Let our great Columbian exposition weigh the
matter.
					    M. SEARS BROOKS.
	Woman's Journal.


Malice drinks one-half of its own poison.— 
Seneca.
	Laziness grows on people; it begins in cob-
webs and ends in iron chains. The more busi-
ness a man has to do the more he is able to ac-
complish, for he learns to economize his time.

	Justice is itself the great standing policy of
civil society, and any eminent departure from
it under any circumstance lies under the sus-
picion of being no policy at all.—Burke.

	He that visits the sick in hopes of a legacy, 
let him be never so friendly in all other cases,
I look upon him in this to be no better than a 
raven that watches a weak sheep only to peck 
out its eyes.—Seneca.

	In early childhood you may lay the founda-
tion of poverty or riches, industry or idleness,
good or evil, by the habits to which you train 
your children. Teach them right habits then 
and their future is safe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 35


A FRAGMENT.

I only take my hand in thine, and all my pulses thrill to
	thee;
An indefinable, transporting joy, which lifts my soul in
	ecstacy;
Some charmed spell which life invigorates, 
A potent power that wakens tenderness;
And truest comfort doth to me impart 
An intuitation of my woman’s heart, 
Which seems of some lost love a counterpart 
And adds its joy to human happiness.

The pent up fountains of my inner life gush tenderly to
	thee; 
Thou call’st from out the deep recesses of my soul sweet
	sympathy
I’m launched as ’twere into a maze of doubt—
I seem in retrospection's cloudy land
And misty phantons shift and change to view,
And all the sombre past wears violet hue,
And shadowy forms appear which erst I knew
While I sit silently and hold thy hand.

Methinks I wander dreamily ’mid bow’rs of roses without
	thorns,
And e’en the air is conscious, with the beauty which the
	scene adorns.
And rippling brooks make music in my ears,
And lightest zephyrs whisper 'mid the trees,
As though the fairy elves made holiday,
And witching charms of nature's melody
Envelop ev’ry sense in mystery, 
And subtlest perfumes float upon the breeze.

Thus wrapt with silence as a mantle round my soul,
	thoughts come and go.
And answ’ring echoes from the distant past seem rippling
	soft and low.
And all the while I feel the magic touch 
That brings such harmony of sight and sound
And charity and love my bosom swell,  
With that intensity no tongue can tell,
And thy bright presence vivifies the spell; 
And I am treading on enchanted ground.

Thou’rt gone! the vision’s fled! and moon and stars are
	dull, and sober night
Reigns all around in darken’d robes, and mocks as ’twere
	my lost delight;
And then some pitying angel softly speaks  
Mortal ’twas but a glimpse of love and heaven,
Back now to earth and thorny paths again,
Stern duty holds thee with a tightened rein.
Plod on, and strive some vict’ry to obtain,
And love eternal will to thee be given. 
	E B.W.


THE OREGONIA.
CANTO FIRST.
Slow sinks the orb of day, but ere his beams
Of purest crimson vanish to illume
Another world, his parting lustre streams
Along the wooded height where greenly bloom
The buds of Autumn, while the emerald plume
That heavenward points from Nature's temple, bends
Glory's sea—and wood and crag assume
Each heavenly tint that evening kindly leads,
Till in one lovely scene, Earth's wildest beauty bleeds. 

Upon this pine-clad cliff I sit me down
In Nature's mighty presence; round me rise
Perennial snows that soft and coldly crown 
The rock-ribbed palace of Eternity's
Untrodden realm, mingling with azure skies
Its icy dome; while o'er the heights I scan,
A solitary eagle proudly flies,
As if to mock the vanity of man
Whose pride can not e'en tread where lesser natures
can.

Speed on majestic stream! eternal tide
Of beauty and sublimity, speed on!
Stern grandeur lingers on thy pictured side
And views his form in living crystal, drawn
From purity's untainted snows; upon
Thy shore, crag-crown'd Nature rears her fane
In solemn stillness; as Creation's dawn
Beheld, her mingled beauties still remain—


Time hath not soiled her charms, nor mortal marr’d her 
reign. 
Bright are thy skies—thy frowning cliffs as wild
As ever shaped in Nature’s magic mold;
Thy shores as green as Eden’s garden smiled,
When earth to man her heavenly stores unrolled.
Degenerate the heart—the bosom cold, 
That looks on thee, Columbia, nor glows
With rapture, where the soul may hold 
Converse with Nature, and from her repose,
Guide grateful thought to Him, beneath whose power she
rose.
And I have loved to haunt thy mossy dells,
And gaze upon thine ever-changing scene.—
To pass the hours where Meditation dwells
In woodland stillness, or to deck serene 
Reflection’s shrine with memory’s wreath unseen
By mortal gaze; full oft my step hath trod
Thy shore where human form hath rarely been,— 
Where Contemplation consecrates the sod,
And views beyond the realms of Nature, Nature’s God!

How deep the stillness! ’tis the twilight hour
When gentle zephyr waves her downy wings
And from the bloom of foliage-mantled bower
Where bends the cypress and where softly swings
The laurel’s graceful pendant, kindly flings
O’er slumbering earth her perfume’s balmy spell,
How blest the calm that peceful twilight brings
What reverent awe her solitudes compel,
As pausing Nature hears departing Day’s farewell.

Now heaven and earth are still; celestial night
Hath drawn her curtain’s inky folds, and borne
On dusky pinion, wings her drowsy flight.
No clustering gems her rayless crown adorn—
One star, but one, precursor of the morn,
Looks on the slumbering earth, and in the stream,
That cleaves its rushing course between rock-worn
And mossy cliffs of gloom, its heavenly beam,
Glassed in her running crystal, glows with living gleam.
C. HORATIO JESSON.


CHEERFULNESS. 

	There is no greater, every-day virtue than
cheerfulness. This quality is like sunshine to 
the day, or gentle, renewing moisture to
parched herbs. The light of a cheerful face
diffuses itself, and communicates the happy
spirit that inspires it; the sourest temper must
sweeten in the atmosphere of continuous good
humor. Be cheerful always. There is no
path but will be easier traveled, no loads but
will be lighter, no shadow on heart or brain 
but will lift sooner in presence of a determined
cheerfulness. 
	It may, at times, seem difficult for the 
happiest tempered to keep the countenance of
peace and content, but the difficulty will
vanish when we consider that sullen gloom and
passionate despair do nothing but multiply 
thorns and thicken sorrow—cultivate cheerful-
ness if only for personal profit. You will do 
and bear every duty and burden better by be-
ing cheerful, it will be your counselor in soli-
tude, and your passport in society. Genuine
cheerfulness is an almost certain index of a 
happy mind. 
	MINNIE HULBERT.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
	
	Gentlemen and Ladies:—Having been called
upon to write upon the subject of woman’s
rights, I have prepared a few words in response
to the invitation and as a true expression of
my individual feelings. Woman’s rights
seems to me to be of so much importance
that every woman should be interested in it, 
and should most earnestly endeavor to con-
tend for it in a proper way and manner. There
are only a few women who have their just 
rights, and who is it that deprives them of 
these? It is our brother man. I often think


that man has uncalled for and unrighteous
authority over those of the “weaker sex” as
he is pleased to term woman, but everything
that goes wrong is in many, yes, in most cases,
put upon woman’s shoulders, for her to carry 
as best she can. 
	I believe in honoring man in his own place
but at the same time I do believe his wife
should have equal rights with him. I am 
pleased to see the ladies striving to shake off 
the chains that have so long enslaved us, and
I shall rejoice to see the day when freedom’s
banner for woman shall wave not only over this
our fair land, but over all the world. When 
that day comes many evils will be trampled
beneath our feet, that today are tolerated by
man.
	I am in every sense of the word an advocate
and a defender of woman’s rights, and I trust
the day will shortly come when woman’s cause
will triumph and she will stand free and un-
trammelled by any of the restraints now im-
posed upon her sex.
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
Kaysville, Utah.


“OBEDIENCE.” 
	God formed the body and spirit of men and
women. He breathed into us the spirit of life,
hence we should obey Him.
	O, Israel what doth the Lord require of 
thee, but to fear the Lord thy God, and to keep 
His statutes, He commands us to believe, and 
why? that we may be saved. 
	A child of God is delighted to obey, hence,
“I have rejoiced in the way of his testimonies
as much as in all riches.” A king is made
happy in the obedience of his subjects. Parents 
are honored by the obedience of their child-
ren. We like to see children manifest affection 
toward their parents. If a child loves its
parents it should be manifest in its obedience
to their wishes. An obedient child does honor
to the parents, to its teachers and should be the 
pride of home and the schoolroom. ‘‘To obey
is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the
fat of rams.” “Honor thy father and thy 
mother, that thy days may be long inthe
land,” is the voice of the word of God.
	The Savior says, “Not my will but Thine be
done.” This we call obedience. A carnal 
heart is willing to render obedience as long as 
it will serve selfish ends, it goes no further, but
true obedience is the forsaking of our own 
wishes, to the will of our parents while under
their care and to our God always. God com-
mands perfect and absolute obedience to His 
will. Obedience is no framer of excuses, don’t
dispute, argue, and reason, but obeys the will
of God forever.
	“Sir,” said the Duke of Wellington to one
of his officers, “I did not ask your opinion, I
gave you my orders, and I expect them
obeyed.” Such should be the obedience of 
children to their parents. The best obedience
is a willing and cheerful one, this kind of a 
spirit is as sweet as honey. A little boy once 
said, “I wish I could mind God as my little
dog minds me, he always looks so pleased to 
mind me, and I don’t want to mind Ma.”
Shall the poor little dog thus obey his master, 
and our children rebel against their parents
and God? I hope not. 
	JANE JOHN.
Provo, Utah.


Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles and glowing with innocent enjoyment is
a mirror transmitting to others the rays of a
supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
Washington Irving.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
   Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
   EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,    -     -    SEPTEMBER 1, 1891.


WOMEN IN THE WORLD'S FAIR.

   ﻿Mrs. Potter Palmer President of the Ladies
World’s Fair Commission has returned from
Europe where she has been working up an in-
terest among women, in regard to representation
in the World’s Fair of 1893, she has been received 
with honors, and has succeeded in arousing
enthuiasm abroad and since her return home has
called a meeting of the lady Commissioners to be
held in Chicago early in September.
   Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury Chairman of the
Utah commission is absent from home and Miss
Keogh, alternate will go on to represent the inter-
ests here and Mrs.Whanla of Ogden who is also a
Lady Commissioner, will leave for Chicago at the
same time to be present at the meeting and to get
information concerning what is expected to be
done here by the women of the Territory.
   This Fair is a mammoth enterprise and what
little such a small Territory can do, may seem
insignificant but, if a united effort is made by
the ladies here something creditable can surely
be accomplished. It is high time to begin, and
any one who can arouse the energies of those 
skilled in the various trades, industries and pro-
fessions to commence special articles at once with
a view to putting them on exhibition will be do-
ing a public good. There are many women in- 
genious and skilled in certain departments of
work, who need encouragement and perhaps 
means to get material to work with, all these
things should be talked of in the locality where
such persons reside, and if necessary application
made to those who have the matter in hand, and
the proper assistance rendered; as this is not
merely a personal affair, but one in which all
have a general interest
   The Territorial Legislature will surely make a
generous appropriation for the women of Utah,
who are really deserving of something in a pub-
lic way considering all the taxes they pay without
representation. Every facility ought to be
afforded to those, who are helping in this laud-
able undertaking. Men and women who have
chosen Utah for a home should be as proud of
what can be accomplished in this new country
even though it may be a little crude, as those in
older States and countries where greater progress
in the arts, sciences, professions and industries
has been arrived at.
   The women and girls throughout this Territory
should respond to the invitation extended to pre-
pare something for the coming Fair, and begin
without delay as there is no time to be lost.
Mrs. Salisbury will be at home soon and will call
a meeting of the Committee which consists of
about twenty-five ladies, and make more definite
arrangements concerning what measures will be
taken to reach all the outside counties. Mean-
time talk up this matter whenever an opportunity
offers among the ladies and consider what can be


done individually. The silk culture and manu-
facture might be one of the important branches of
development in the Utah exhibit.
   We intend to keep this matter before the
ladies and inform them from time to time con-
cerning the Woman’s Fair Commission; probably
before another paper is issued there may be
something more tangible to present in regard to
what postive steps can be taken to forward the
enterprise in Utah.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the first line of the last verse of the poem
‘‘Singing Evermore” published Aug. 15, the 
words “Often life” should read “Other lips.”
	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake will be held in Ogden on Thursday, Sep-
tember 10th, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding. 
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held at Mt. Pleasant on 
the 9th of September. Mrs. M. A. Hyde Presi-
dent wishes the County well represented. 
	Bouquets of late summer flowers have lately 
graced our sanctum, gifts from Sisters Jane
Cowan, Mary Gunderson and Jane Holt. We
also had a basket of delicious cherries from Sister
Grey; for these most acceptable favors, we wish
to make grateful acknowledgements. 
	The Relief Society Conference of Cassia Stake
will be held at Oakley on the 19th of September.
It is expected that Pres. Zina D. H. Young, her
Counselor Jane S. Richards and Aurelia S. 
Rogers, Pres. of the Primary Associations of 
Davis Stake will go to attend this Conference and 
also the Primary and Y. L. M. I. A. This is the
first visit of the leading sisters of the Relief 
Society to Cassia Stake. Mrs. Louisa Haight is
the President, and Mrs. Louisa Picket Secretary.
	Mary Emma Vanscoonhoven, M.D., has returned 
from Ann Arbor University, Michigan, having 
graduated a full-fledged physician and surgeon,
after a four years course, and has now established 
herself in practise in this City. Her office is in 
the Constitution building opposite Z. C. M. I., 
Rooms 324 & 325 on the third floor, reached
easily by the elevator. Mrs. Van as she is best
known here where she has lived from childhood,
had quite a successful practise as an obstetrician,
and in treating children etc., previous to entering
the University having taken regular courses in 
those studies under some of the leading
physicians here.
	The Latter-day Saints College will open its
annual session this month in the Social Hall
as formerly. The trustees having secured 
permanently the property formerly owned by 
Mrs. Etta Ellerbeck, and where it is anticipated
putting up suitable college buildings as soon as
circumstances will permit, and laying out and or-
namenting the grounds handsomely. Dr. J. E. Tal-
mage the Principal of the institution has recently re-
turned from a trip abroad whither he went during 
vacation, one object being to attend the meeting
of the Royal Microscopical Society in London of
which he is a member; he also visited France,
Switzerland, Belgium and Northern Germany, 
spent considerable time in Paris and during his
travels has collected much valuable information
of a literary, historical, scientific and general
character.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, on Friday September 11th, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. as
usual. It is expected there will be an interesting
[Column 2]
Conference, and the President M. I. Horne is de-
sirous there should be a full attendance and each
branch have representation through its members
The Conference of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will convene the following day in the Salt 
Lake Assembly Hall, and there should certainly 
be a large representation from the various
branches, as this is a suitable season of the year
for the children to assemble and show what im-
provement has been made. Meetings will com-
mence at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. All interested in 
the spiritual welfare of the children are invited to
attend. The Y. L. M. I. Associations of this
Stake hold their Conference Sep. 1, in the As-
sembly Hall. Meetings commence at 2 p.m., and
7:30 p.m. The programme of exercises as pub-
lished in the daily papers ought to ensure a large
audience. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze is the President
and a cordial invitation has been extended to the
public.


DEATH OF MARY ANN PRATT.

   Mary Ann, widow of Parley P. Pratt, departed
this life at her home in Pleasant Grove Utah, at
3:20 a. m. August 24, 1891.—Deceased was the
daughter of Aaron and Susan Frost and was
born at Groten, Vermont, Jan. 14, 1809; her 
father’s family moved to the State of Maine,
where they embraced the Gospel as early as 1835,
Mrs. Stearns was baptized by David W. Patten.
She was a widow then having married Nathan
Stearns in May 1830, by him she had one daughter
who is still living. Her husband died one year
after their marriage. After receiving the Gospel
she went to Kirtland and was married to Apostle
Parley P. Pratt, May 1837, he being a widower 
at the time.
   In Missouri Sister Pratt and her husband en-
dured many sufferings. Their eldest son Nathan
was born in Caldwell Co.
	“Three months later Mr. Pratt was arrested
by an armed mob and taken to prison,
his wife meanwhile lying sick of a fever and not
able to leave her bed. After her recovery she
visited him in prison, remaining with her child-
ren six weeks, in a dreary dungeon. During
this time her daughter Mary Ann accidentally had
her arm broken by the trap door, and at this
supreme moment Sister Pratt, at her husband’s
suggestion, took from the jail a manuscript which
contained much church history and delivered it
to a friend. Thus many important items were
saved for the  church. The deceased was
banished from the State with her helpless child-
ren, while her husband was compelled to remain
in the dungeon. She settled at Quincy, Illinois.
   Brother Pratt afterwards joined his wife and
children at Quincy. They moved from there to
Nauvoo. In the fall of 1840, Sister Pratt, with
her sister Olive, their three children, Mary Ann,
Parley P. and Nathan, started for England with
Elder Pratt, they being the first women among 
the Latter-day Saiuts to go to a foreign land as
missionaries. They made Manchester their head-
quarters, when Brother Pratt established the
Millennial Star.
   On June 1st, 1841, their daughter Olivia was
born. They remained in England two years and
on their return home another daughter was born
on board the “Maid of Iowa,” just one week be-
fore they landed at Nauvoo. They named her 
Susan.
   After arriving home, sorrow visited their
household; Nathan and Susan both died within
a short time. Their next child was a son, Moroni
L. Sister Pratt was expelled with the saints just
after the battle of Nauvoo, and settled at Winter
Quarters—now Florence, Neb. She afterwards
made a visit with her children to her relatives in
the State of Maine, and came to the valley in the


fall of 1852, that winter she spent in this City, and
in the spring went to Pleasant Grove where she
has mostly resided since.  She leaves three child-
ren, Mrs. M. A. Winters, Mrs. B. W. Driggs, and
Moroni L. Pratt, and a host of relatives and
friends, who will miss her society, companionship
and advice.
    Sister Mary Ann Pratt was quite a historic
character and her reminiscences of the wander-
ings and journeyings of the Church would be of
great interest were they written up in detail, as
they were often graphically related by herself to
her children and acquaintances.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. C. M. AND M. INSTITUTION.
	Minutes of the first semi-annual meeting of the
share holders of the Woman’s Co-operative Mer-
cantile and Manufacturing institution held in the
14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 15, 1891.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. After
which Pres Horne said that she always believed
in asking the blessing of the Lord upon all of our
undertakings—therefore the reason of opening
this business meeting by prayer.
	Spoke of the disadvantages under which the
Inst. had labored and the apparent non-interest
manifested by some of the stock-holders. Also
spoke of the splendid set of women employed in
the Inst., and of the good spirit which existed
among them. Spoke of the dullness of business
all over the city, and of the cost of fitting up the
store and getting started, such things will not have
to be purchased again but the means now re-
ceived will go into the business. Also spoke of
the opposition that has been brought to bear
against this movement.
	The Secretary then read the report up to Aug.
1st showing the condition of the business.
	Pres. M. I. Horne expressed her satisfaction
with the report, and hoped with the help and
patronage of the sisters to do much better in the
future and soon to be able to pay a dividend.
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke in favor of the Inst.
and of the interest manifested by the Officers.
Solicited the patronage of the sisters and hoped
they would come forward and take more stock.
	Mrs. E. Woodmansee said she had not much
to say, but would testify to the integrity, economy
diligence and unselfishness of all the ladies who
had any thing to do with the Inst. She had
heard a great many complaints but nevertheless
we are doing well, and must not expect too much
at first. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells read an in-
teresting article from the Woman’s Business
Journal, and urged the necessity of stock-holders
patronizing their own Institution.
	Pres. Horne then spoke of the Dressmaking
department and testified to the ability of Mrs. M.
P. Spencer, in connection therewith. Mrs. Z. D.
Young spoke of her experience in the silk
factory which had taught her a useful lesson.
Regretted that it had been abandoned as we
should now be exporting silks. Referred to the
grand achievements resulting from small begin-
nings and gave encouraging words to all engaged
 in this enterprize. Mrs. B. W. Smith called at-
tention to the efforts that have been made to in-
duce us as a people to trade with our own folks.
Trusted that we would all be united now in sup-
port of this Inst. Why should we not succeed in
a business enterprize as well as the women of the
world.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson expressed her faith
in the Inst. Was not an extensive stock-holder,
but would be could she follow her inclinations;
she had perfect confidence in the officers and
thought the showing very good. Dr. E. S. Barney
spoke encouragingly; was encouraged by the re-
port. Spoke in praise of the different officers
and expressed her desire to aid and promote the
welfare of the Inst. Some other ladies spoke as


being well satisfied with the showing made by
the report. Pres. Horne gave notice of the first
annual meeting of the stock-holders which would
be held Feb. 15th,1892. After singing and bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, several ladies
came forward and had their names put down for
more shares.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


PACIFIC COAST WOMEN’S PRESS
			ASSOCIATION.

	The members of the P. C. W. P. A. met again
in Union Square Hall Aug. 11th. When the
Correspondents so ably took the lead, that it was
unanimously declared one of the most successful
meetings ever held by the Association.
	The President Mrs. N. B. Eyster, very grace-
fully introduced the distinguished visitor of the
occasion, Mrs. Sallie Joy White (Editorial Staff
of the Boston Herald), who in an agreeable and
forcible manner addressed the ladies for a short
time on the subject of Women’s Press Associa-
tions. When it leaked out that the Pacific Coast
Women’s Press Association was the outgrowth
of that of New England, of which Mrs. White
was the first President, much merriment was
caused by that lady re-introducing herself as the
‘‘mother” of those present; and her statement
that she was proud of her “children” met with
vigorous applause.
	Mrs. Hannah L. Neal then read a poem “White
Nuts” followed by Mrs. S. P. D’Evelyn who
gave an admirable paper entitled “Practical
thoughts on Correspondence,” the gist of it being
that subjects of general interest written in the
smallest space are the most acceptable. Mrs.
Leila Ellis next stepped forward and in a dra-
matic manner related some of her experiences
during “A recent visit to New York,” after which
Mrs. Lydia Prescott gave a very thoughtful paper
on “Should motive underly the work of a Cor-
respondent?” Mrs. Matheson followed with a
unique sketch entitled “A Paper Without a Sub-
ject,” and ripples of laughter floated over the
Hall as in a humorous and graphic manner she
described her sufferings when supplying a weekly
column for a country Editor, who would take
nothing on Politics, Climate or Scenery, but who
insisted on news pure and simple. Mrs. M. V.
Lewis, last but not least on the programme then
read a paper on “The field for Correspondents in
California,” which proved her to be the happy
possessor of a cultured and thoughtful mind.
	This talented young lady is also a member of
the New York Press Club, but has signified her
intention of remaining on this Coast for an in-
definite period, which is a source of congratula-
tion among her sister writers of the West.
Hearty hand shaking and an interchange of
kindly greeting, closed a most delightful meet-
ing.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM MEXICO. 

			Colonia Diaz, Mexico.
	MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		MY DEAR SISTER:
	After days and weeks of thinking I would write
you, every day promising myself I would write to-
morrow, I now make an attempt to fulfill my
promise to tell you something of Mexico though
my knowledge of the country is limited, living on
the border and not having traveled in the interior,
but I can tell you a little about our little Colony,
and La Ascension about four miles from here,
where the Custom House Officials live. From
Deming, New Mexico to Diaz, about ninety miles,
and as far as the eye can reach beyond is a level
country covered with mosquito brush with here
and there a windmill to relieve the monotony.

[Column 2]

No high mountains but only a range of low hills
far in the distance, encircle a very large valley.
The days are hot but the nights as a rule are re-
freshingly cool. The soil is sandy, and so hot
that it burns your feet through your shoes, but
yet the children go barefoot, but I notice they do
not stand still long at a time, they run to keep
their feet from burning.
	This is an unusually dry season, the rains have
not started yet and vegetation is sadly in need of
rain, as the river is very low and the water for
irrigation comes into town only once in four
weeks. Those who have windmills are greatly
blessed as they can keep their gardens watered
during the dry season. Good water can be
obtained at a depth of eight or ten feet so that
nearly every family has a well near the door.
Water being so near the surface of the earth it is
difficult to have deep cellars, but the sisters
manage to make good butter in this hot weather,
without cellars. Some of the sisters in Utah
would wonder how it could be done perhaps.
It is an old adage that "necessity is the mother of
invention," and so it is here. The sisters find
ways to keep articles cool. One way is to keep a
wet cloth wrapped around the butter or milk and
stand it in a draught, wetting the cloth often, you
would be surprised to find how cool it keeps. All
kinds of vegetables are raised here in abundance
Now is the melon harvest; people invite their
neighbors to feast on melons. I have attended
two such feasts today and for once in my life had
all I could eat. In a few years there will be
plenty of all kinds of fruit as hundreds of fruit
trees have been set out. Strawberries, grapes
and tomatoes do well.
	Meetings are well attended, even during
these very hot days the meeting house is gen-
erally crowded. Fast meetings are as well at-
tended as the Sabbath meetings and a good spirit
prevails. The Relief Society, Young Ladies, and
the Primary organizations are all in good work.
ing order and have well attended, interesting
meetings.
	We had a celebration on "Pioneer Day," which
was kept much the same as it is kept in Utah.
The meetinghouse was tastefully decorated with
pictures, flowers and evergreens. A large Mexi-
can flag was draped over the stand. It is red,
white and green with a large eagle in the center,
standing on a cactus with a snake in its mouth.
A programme of speeches, songs, recitations,
toasts and sentiments was rendered in a credit-
able manner. In the afternoon races for prizes
were run causing a good deal of sport; and a
dance for the little folks. In the evening there
was a meeting where everybody was expected to
take part if called upon. They called it a "suc-
cotash" programme but it was the best feature of
the amusement.
	The Officials from Ascension were invited and
ten of them accepted the invitation, among the
number being the Administrator and the Presi-
dentee (or Mayor) it being their first visit to the
Colony. The Administrator made a speech,
through an interpreter, and said they felt honored
by the invitation, that they had enjoyed them-
selves and that they felt kindly towards the
Colony and that they would do all that the law
allowed in favor of the Colonists. It is hoped
and believed that their visit will have a good
effect. The Administrator is a jolly gray-haired
blue eyed man, with a broad forehead.
	La Ascension can be described in a few words
It is verily a mud town. The houses are built of
mud, or adobies 12x18 inches, without rock for
foundation, flat roofs, with a hole for a window
but no glass. There is no order about the way
they build as regards blocks. In the business
part of town the houses join each other, it re-
minds me of the old fort walls that we had in the
the days of Indian wars in Utah in the long ago.


As you look along the street it looks like a solid
mud wall with here and there a door with some
sort of a sign and if you inquire or enter, you
find stores, meat shops and saloons. No trees,
no flowers, no grass, no running water to be seen,
everything is of the same color, and that is a mud
color except on the public square where a few
trees are to be seen. Seats of mud a few yards
apart surround the square and a stand is in the
center where the band sit when they play on
holidays.
	The women wear on their heads, in summer
and winter, a long scarf usually black alpaca, but
sometimes black lace. They often attend our
meetings and seem pleased that some of our peo-
ple are learning their language.
	Though there are some unpleasant features and
some hardships to be endured in settling a new
country, living among a people who do not un-
derstand us or we them, yet there are also some
great advantages. Our children are not thrown
into temptation on every hand. No saloons are in
our midst, no smoking or gambling. I have not
seen one drunken person, nor seen one person
smoke or speak a profane word since I have been
here except by the Mexicans.
	We have an excellent School Teacher, who
was educated in the B. Y. Academy so that our
children are not neglected in their spiritual or
secular education. The people are working hard
building up the country, making it blossom as
the rose. They have done well in the short time
they have been here considering the many dis-
advantages they have had to contend with.
Many of the brethren are at work on the Rail
Road that is expected to connect us with the
outside world before long, when it is completed
no doubt many of our Northern friends will visit
us.
	Praying the blessings of God to attend you in
all your labors.
		I am your Sister,
			M.
	August 9, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MISTAKE CORRECTED.

	I wish to correct a mistake made in the last
issue, under the heading, Comforted Again.
	The mistake is simply this: I said the side-
walk put down this season cost 96 dollars. I am
told it was only repaired at the cost of 69 dollars,
quite a mistake you see. But when newly laid
down it cost 120 dollars.
	I also wish to give credit to the officers for
patience, for they are not in a hurry as we sup-
posed, and surely deserve our respect when they
show themselves thoughtful and careful of those
under their care.
	I would again give them credit for their kind-
ness to an old lady over 70 who sold her home
because she could not pay her taxes.
	The officer asked her if there was any reason
why she should not pay a tax on the 1.000 dollars.
She replied, "this is my daily bread and it is so
small I do not know how to divide with you."
The tax was not required.
	She says she feels satisfied that her Father in
heaven heard her prayers for those officers and
they will deserve the benediction, "Blessed are
the merciful for they shall obtain mercy." Also
says she will continue to pray for them, that the
light of truth may shine into their hearts and
clear their vision to that degree that they may
love their neighbor as themselves and deal out
equity and justice to all nnder their care. When
this prayer is answered upon our nation, will we
not be a happy people. They need great wisdom
at the present time, and where will they get it?
Only at the fountain of light and intelligence.
			M. E. K.
	Aug. 18th, 1891.


R. S. REPORT.

	STAR VALLEY CONTTONWOOD WARD
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTERS:
		In reading the
columns of your most excellent and interesting
paper, I see you are receiving reports of the
different branches of the Relief Society through
out the various Stakes of Zion and as we wish
to be numbered among the co-workers of so
noble and grand an organization I feel im-
pressed to relate the condition of our Society.
We have been organized a year the 24th of
June last, and the Society is in a good work-
ing condition; and I am pleased to say we are
united in this noble cause although we are very
few in number, and widely scattered; all seem
to take a great interest in coming to meetings
to partake of the sweet influence of the spirit
of God that is present to assist us in doing
good; true we are making a new settlement
here, and meet with a great many disadvan-
tages, and inconveniencies, but we feel
encouraged knowing the same God is watching
over us, and is ever willing to pour out his
blessings upon us in as much as we are faith-
ful in performing our duties and magnify-
ing our positions. We have a good, kind
President, who is zealous in her duties and ever
encourages the sisters to be one in all things
pertaining to the noble work we are engaged
in; all are eager and willing to fetch in their
little mite to help along, and we feel that we 
are blessed, and are progressing very favorably
under the circumstances in which we are
placed. We hope to improve in all things as
fast as circumstances afford us means and bet-
ter conveniences, We hope some time in the
near future to have the honor of a visit from
some of the sisters who stand at the head of
the Relief Society to encourage and instruct
us in the grand work we are engaged in.
Praying that the Spirit of God will guide and
direct us in all our righteous endeavors. We
remain your Sisters and co-workers in the
cause of truth.
		JANE PARSONS, PRES.
		ELECTA L. WALTON, SEC.


[Column 1]

A PICTURE OF HOME.

	I recall a home long since left behind in
the journey of life, and its memory floats back
over me with a shower of emotions and
thougths toward whose precious fall my heart
opens itself greedily like a thirsty flower. It 
is a home among the mountains—humble and
homely, but priceless in its wealth of associa-
tions. The waterfall sings in my ears, as it
used to through the dreamy, mysterious nights.
The rose at the gate, the patch of pansies
under the window, the neighboring orchard,
the old elm, the grand machinery of storms
and showers, the little smithy under the hill
that flamed with strange light through the dull
winter evenings, the wood-pile at the door, the 
ghostly white birches on the hill, and the dim
blue haze on the retiring mountains—all come
back to me with an appeal that touches my
heart and moistens my eyes.
	I sit again in the door-way at summer night-
fall eating my bread and milk, looking off upon
the darkening landscape, and listening to the
shouts of boys upon the hill-side, calling or
driving home the reluctant herds. I watch
again the devious ways of the dusky night-
hawk along the twilight of the sky and listen
to his measured note, and the breezy boom
that accompanies his headlong plunge to the
earth.
	Even the old barn, crazy in every timber
and gaping at every joint, has charms for me.
I try again the breathless leap from the great
beams to the hay. I sit again on the thres-

[Column 2]

hold of the widely open doors—open to the 
soft south winds of spring—and watch the
cattle, whose faces look half human to me as
they sun themselves and peacefully ruminate
while drop by drop the melting snow on the
roof drills holes through the wasting drift be-
neath the eaves.
	The first little lambs of the season tottle by
the side of their dams, and utter their feeble
bleatings, while the flock nibble at the hay-
rack, or a pair of rival wethers try the strength
of their skulls in an encounter half in earnest
and half in play. The proud old rooster crows
upon his dunghill throne, and some delighted
member of his silly family leaves her nest, and
tells to her mates and to me that there is
another egg in the world.
	The old horse whinnies in his stall and calls
to me for food. I look up the roof and think
of the last year's swallows—soon to return
again—and catch a glimpse of angular sky
through the diamond-shaped opening that gave
them an ingress and egress. How, I know
not and care not, but that old brown barn is
a part of myself—it has entered into life and
given me growth and wealth.
	But I look into the house again, where the life
abides, which has appropriated these things,
and finds among them its home. The hour of
evening has come, the lamps are lighted, and
a good man in middle life—though very old
he seems to be—takes down the bible and
reads a chapter from its hallowed pages. A
sweet woman sits at his side, and brothers and
sisters are grouped reverently around him. I
do not understand the words, but I have been
told that they were the words of God, and I
believe it. The long chapter ends and then
we all kneel down, and the good man prays.
I fell asleep with my head in the chair, and
the next morning I remembered nothing of
how I went to bed.
	After breakfast the bible is taken down, and
the good man prays again; and again is the
worship repeated through all the days of many
golden years. The pleasant converse of the
fire-side, the simple songs of home, the words
of encouragement as I bent over my school
tasks, the kiss as I lay down rest, the patient
bearing with the freaks of my restless nature,
the gentle counsels mingled with reproof and
approval, the sympathy that meets and as-
suages every sorrow and sweetens every suc-
cess; all these return to me amid the respon-
sibilities which press upon me now, and I feel
as if I had once lived in heaven, and staying
lost my way.
	Well, the good man grew old and weary and
fell asleep at last with blessings on his lips for
me. Some of those who called him father lie
side by side in the same calm place. The others
are scattered and dwell in new homes, and
the old house and barn and orchards have
passed into the hands of strangers, who have
learned, or are learning, to look upon them as
I do now.
	Lost, ruined, forever left behind, that home
is mine today, as truly as ever it was, for have
I not brought it away with me and shown it
to you? It was the home of my boyhood. In
it I found my first mental food, and by it was
my young soul fashioned. To me, throuogh
weary years and many dangers and sorrows, it
has been a perennial fountain of delight and
purifying influence, simply because it was my
home, and was and is part of me. The rose at
the gate blooms for me now, the landscape
when I summon it, and I hear the voices that
call me from lips which memory has made
immportal.
		DR. J. G. HOLLAND.


Beneath the rule of men entirely great the
pen is mighter than the sword.—Bulwer
Lytton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

THE TRAINING OF A NURSE.

BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	Within the memory of most of us nearly
every family boasts some member who was
said to be a "born nurse," who came to the
fore in time of sickness, and whose labor of
love was sometimes shared by a paid outsider,
usually a motherly body supposed to have a
great deal of experience. But that time is
past, and now no one who can afford a
trained nurse thinks of taking a patient
through an illness without one, any more than
a captain willingly takes his ship through a
dangerous channel without a pilot.
	This means that a new trade or profession
has been created for women, and it may be
told once more that they owe it to one of the
noblest women of her time.
	At the close of the Crimean War the
passionate gratitude of the English people to
Florence Nightingale found expression in a
great public meeting, at which fifty thousand
pounds was subscribed as a testimonial to her.
She refused, however, to take it for herself,
and at her request it was devoted to a founda-
tion which was quaintly termed "An Insti-
tution for the Training, Sustenance, and
Protection of Nurses and Hospital Attendants,"
in connection with St. Thomas's Hospital,
London; and thus the first English training
school for nurses was started in June,
1860.
	Accounts of this great reform, which spread
in England from year to year, reached this
country more or less vaguely, but were with-
out result until, in 1872, the men and women
belonging to that branch of the State Charities
Aid Association which visited the sick in
Bellevue Hospital felt that they could not do
any good or lasting work until the existing
system, or want of system, should be entirely
changed. The nurses were too few in number,
nearly all illiterate, some immoral, and others
intemperate, and had sought their places
simply as a means of livelihood, and not because
they had any aptitude for, or knowledge of their
profession. The members of the Bellevue
Association therefore applied to the Com-
missioners of Charities and Correction for
permission to establish a school for nurses at
Bellevue Hospital, pledging themselves to pay
the additional salaries and all other expenses
of a better class of women and to put two
more nurses in each ward. The consent of
the Medical Board of the hospital, to whom
the Commissioners refered this appeal, having
finally been given to what many physicians
considered a doubtful experiment, the Bellevue
Training School for Nurses was started on
May 1, 1873, with a superintendent and five
nurses, having five wards under their care.
	In 1890 the school had 62 pupils and has
graduated 345, while as a direct outgrowth of
that modest beginning there are three other
great schools in New York alone. These are
the New York City, which has 64 pupils and
has graduated 263; the New York Hospital,
48 pupils and 132 graduates; and Mount
Sinai, with 50 pupils and 111 graduates. There
are also smaller schools in the city, but, great
or small, Bellevue must always be honored as
the pioneer. Her graduates are at the head
of most of the important schools and hospitals
in the country, and have even gone so far
afield as England, Italy, and China.
	The next school to be established was the
New York City, which was started by the
Commissioner of Charities and Correction in
1877, and is entirely supported by the City.
Until last year it was known as the Charity
Hospital School, because it began there, but
as it grew its work spread until the old name
was misleading and had to be changed. It is
now the largest and in some respects the

[Column 2]

most important of all the schools, as it,
nurses five different hospitals—Charity and
Maternity on Blackwells Island, the Infant's
Hospital on Randall's Island, Gouverneur at
Gouverneur Slip, and Harlem, at the foot of
East 120th Street, the two last being accident
or emergency hospitals, while at Charity the
cases are largely chronic. Besides the pupils
of the school, there are thirty-two permanent
trained nurses at Charity and Randall's
Island, making nearly a hundred in all, for
whom the superintendent is directly responsible
and over whom she has full authority. The
other schools in the city are supported from
the funds of the hospitals which they nurse.
	I have said that nursing is a trade or pro-
fession, for it is really both—being a trade, in
that it exacts manual skill and dexterity, and
a profession because it requires mental ability,
judgment and progressive knowledge. The
hospital is therefore at once a workshop and a
college, with this essential difference, however,
that its scholars exist because it has need of
them, not they of it. So much talk has been
made about nursing as a noble "vocation"
that it is easy to lose sight of the fact that
hospital training schools are run first of all
because hospital patients must be taken care
of. When Florence Nightingale led her
little band of workers out of England it was
not in order that women should have a new
vocation, but because men were dying like
flies in the hospitals at Scutari, and the
women who started the Bellevue School did
so because they found the hospital could be
well nursed in no other way.
	In most of the schools the nurses receive
each $10 a month during the first year of
their service, and $15 the second, and at the
present time there is some discussion as to
whether they should be paid at all, or should
give their time in return for their professional
training, as the house physicians do. This
seems reasonable enough to an outsider, but in
the first place much of a nurse's work is of a
routine kind, repeated far oftener than is
necessary for her education, and such as a
doctor is rarely called upon to do, and in the
second the most desirable pupils are those
who could be self-supporting outside the schools
and will not be a burden on their families while
in them. In this country there is a large class
of conscientious and industrious women whose-
education and early associations lead them to
look for some higher and more thoughtful
labor than household service or work in shops,
who have received the good education of our
common schools, and who are dependent on
their own exertions for support. These women
can be trained to make the best possible nurses,
and it is the unanimous opinion of the superin-
tendents of the large schools that it would be
false economy to seek to deprive such pupils of
the small salary which now keeps them inde-
pendent during two years of very hard work.
	We will suppose that a woman of this kind
has decided go into one of the large schools,
and has applied to the superintendent for infor-
mation. She receives in return a circular
giving the rules, requirements and course of
study, and in due time finds herself with other
candidates waiting for examination in the
superintendent's office. When her turn comes,
and if her credentials are satisfactory, the
superintendent usually talks to her a little while
in order to find out what grade of nurse she is
likely to make; for candidates are admitted
only oh their own merits, and where there are
more applicants than vacancies it is important
to secure the best. A short examination in
spelling, dictation, and simple arithmetic
follows, and also in reading aloud, but this is
often past over if a candidate is evidently too
nervous to do herself justice.
	Varions experiments have been tried as to
Examining Boards, but the best result is always

[Column 3]

gained by choosing a good suprintendent, and
then leaving her free to select her own nurses,
without fear or favor, from those who present
themselves, as she must train discipline, and
live with them for two years, and has therefore
every reason to take only those who are likely
to do her credit.
	Apart from articles in professional journals,
much that has been written about hospital life
is apt to strike one familar with it as somewhat
vague and sentimental, and there may there-
fore be some interest in the following sketches,
by pupils now in the New York City Training
School. The first gives a general outline of
the work.
	(To be continued)


WIMODAUGHSIS CLUB HOUSE.

	Our beloved Wimodaughsis has secured by
purchase a most desirable house, being 1328
I St., N. W. This house is a comparatively
new, press brick front, containing fifteen rooms.
It has a frontage of thirty feet, and the lot
runs back one hundred and thirty-four feet to
a wide alley, which gives ample opportunity
for additional buildings. The location is par-
ticularly desirable, as it fronts on Franklin
Square which is one of the most beautiful of
the many parks in the city. It and the
Lafayette Park are said to contain the greatest
varieties of trees and plants of any parks in
the world. The street is quiet and retired,
and yet it is near all the car lines and prin-
cipal hotels. The Board feels very much en-
couraged at having secured so excellent a
place, and have every confidence that the
friends of the enterprise which has been so
fully explained in your columns, will rally to
aid in making payments as they mature. There
is also need of many gifts to furnish the house
and build up the library. It is especially de-
sired that this should be a woman's library, in
which their words and works may be fully
recorded and represented. Articles that have
belonged to prominent women, and their
portraits and autographs will be specially
welcome now that a permanent place is secured
where they can be properly cared for. An
appeal will soon be sent out, and if it fails to
reach any one who is interested, it is hoped
she will not delay on that account, but send
whatever she feels the ability and inclination
to give.
	Cordially yours,
		EMMA M. GILLETT.
Woman's Tribune.


PERSONALS.

	Di Vernon has just written an article on
"Sea-side resorts of California" for the Ameri-
can Press Association.
	Mrs. S. T. D. Evelyn has an article in the
August number of the Chicago Woman's Jour-
nal, on "Women Holidaying."
	Mrs. Gertrude Franklin Atherton has
written a new novel entitled "A Question of
Time."
	Di Vernon wrote an article in the Pacific
Rural Press on "How I built a greenhouse '
(Aug.15th).
	Louise Franci had an article in the Pacific
Rural Press Aug. 15th on "Take comfort in
canning fruit."
	Mrs. R. F. English of the W. P. A. has
been appointed to take charge of the training
school in connection with the Normal School
at San Jose.
	Mrs Barbara Ruell has discovered a fine
Bay-Salt Quarry on her property at Los
Guilicos.


Mrs. Romualdo Pacheco a distinguished
member of the W. P. A. will shortly rejoin her
husband in Guatemala.
	Miss Virna Woods author of "The Amazons"
read a strong original poem recently at Pacific
Grove reflecting great credit on the P. C. W.
P. A.
	Mrs. Alice Moore Mc.Comas of the Los
Angelos Express is at Chino writing up the 
sugar beet industry for the P. C. W. P. A.
	Clara Spalding Brown has just returned
from Mount Wilson, where she has been
writing up Wilson's Peak and photographing
its scenery.
	Mrs. E. S. Y. Parkhurst goes as Delegate to
the International Federation of Women's Press
Associations, which assembles Nov. 15th in'
Boston.
	Ella Higginson's poem "The New West'
read at the convention of the P. C. W. P. A.
in March last has been re-published in the
"Review of Reviews" London.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Keep cool and you cammand everybody.
St. Just.
	The best armor is to keep out of gunshot.—
Lord Bacon.
	Reason and virtue alone can bestow liberty.
—Shaftesbury.
	Good manners are the small coin of virtue.
Woman of England.
	The greatest difficulties are where we are not
looking for them.—Goethe.
	The first step in debt is like the first step in
falsehood.—Samuel Smiles.
	True merit, like a river, the deeper it is the
less noise it makes.—Halifax;
	Our deeds determine us as much as we de-
termine our deeds.—George Eliot.
	The ways of the heart, like the ways of
Providence, are mysterious.—Ware.
	He that calls a man ungrateful sums up all
the evil a man can be guilty of.—Swift.
	My gems are falling away, but it is because
God is making up His jewels.—Wolfe.
	Youth is in danger until it learns to look
upon debts as furies.—Bulwer Lytton.
	Libraries are shrines where all the relics of
saints, full of true virtue, and without delusion
and imposture, are preserved and reposed.—
Bacon.


ONE MORE GONE TO REST.

	At Eden Ward, Weber County, June 5th 1891. we were
called to part with a noble woman, Sister Margaret Mc'
Bride, President of the Relief Society of the Eden Ward.
	Margaret Howard Mc'Bride was born Dec. 21, 1814, at
parish of North Miles, Lancashire, England. Married at
the same place in the year 1833, Nov. 25. Baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the
4th of Jan. 1838, by Heber C. Kimball, in Preston, Lan-
cashire, England; and emigrated on the 10th of May 1856.
Crossed the plains with handcarts, her husband dying upon
the way; he was found dead under his wagon covered with
snow and was buried in connection with 14 others all in
one grave.
	She arrived in Ogden, Dec. 24, 1856, with five small
children the youngest three years old: she was the mother
of ten children five of them are now living, and are mem-
bers of the Church; she has forty-six grandchildren.
	She was chosen as President of the Relief Society of the
Eden Ward on the 7th of June 1878, and has ever been a
faithful sister and an active President.
	Therefore be it resolved that we recognize in the death


of our sister the loss of a faithful President and kind
friend.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and patience and
uncomplaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society record,and also a copy be printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. 
MARTHA A. FERRIN,
MARGARET LARSEN,
	Counselors.
CATHARINE ANDERSON, Sec.


EXPRESSIONS OF LOVE AND RESPECT.
	The members of the La Platta branch Relief Society
wish to express through the columns of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, the love and esteem they felt for the late lamented
Sister Jane M. Walton, their Stake President.
	We feel that in her we have lost a wise counselor, a true
friend, and an agreeable associate.
	She was a meek and lowly follower of Christ, and what-
ever she was called upon to do she did it with that child-
like dependence on Him that impressed one at once that
she was ever guided by His will. We never saw in her
any marks of arrogance, but always leaning upon those in
authority for counsel, for guidance and for support.
	You will doubtless hear of her from those who have
been more immediately associated with her, and have been
blessed for so many years with her presence, in sorrow and
in joy, for she was always near when a word of comfort
was needed or help in sickness of any nature.
	She was certainly an enviable women for she lived a life
of usefulness and has gone to receive the reward of the
just, has left none behind but that feel to breathe blessings
on her name.
	A loving wife, a tender parent, a true friend. May the
Lord help us to emulate her example, that we may have
the privilege of associating with her where wicked men are
not permitted to prey upon the just.
	Members of the La Plata branch of the Relief Society
of the San Juan Stake. Farmington N. M. Aug. 5, 1891.


IN MEMORY
OF
OUR BELOVED PRESIDENT.

"He giveth His beloved sleep."
	Sister Sarah Smith Wheeler, who died in this City July
10, 1891, was born in Westbury Parish, Gloucestershire,
England, the 2nd November in the year 1806. She married
Thomas Smith when a quite a young woman, and when the
Gospel was first introduced in that part of England where
they resided, in 1841, her husband was among the first to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints. Sister Smith was
baptized a year later, 1842. They emigrated to this
country in 1852, Sister Smith having the sad misfortune to
bury her husband while journeying to Zion of which they
had both talked so much and anticipated so much joy in
reaching. Sister Smith however continued her journey
with her son and daughter, being ever desirous of continu-
ing on in the path of right and duty. 
	The Millennial Star has the following obituary pub- 
lished after hearing of her husband's death.
	"We regret to learn, by intelligence from America, that
Thomas Smith, late a Traveling Elder in the Bedfordshire
Conference, England, died of chills and fever, at St. Joseph
Missouri, U. S. A., on the 28th of May, 1852.
	"Elder Smith was well known in many parts of this
Island for his zeal, energy, and courage, in propagating and
defending the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. He
departed this life, maintaining the same unflinching testi-
mony which he had so long borne to the truth."
	Sister Smith Wheeler was chosen to preside over the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward in this City in the year
1869 and honorably and faithfully discharged the duties of
her calling and was greatly beloved by all those associated
with her in the ward in which she resided and also among
the Saints wherever she was known. For the past two years
owing to her feeble health she has been unable to attend
to the duties of her office, but her Counselors have pre-
sided in her absence feeling it a pleasure to perform this
duty for one so well beloved.
	The sisters of the Relief Society of the Second Ward,
Salt Lake City feel to value her most earnest labors as
worthy the emulation of all. Ever since she joined the
Saints it has always been her zealous and most earnest


wish to do good to those in need. She was ever most
charitable, loving and kind to all, ever striving in the path
of duty to be a Saint of God. Her words to all who were
in trouble, were, “no matter how dark your path may
seem, put your trust in God and He will bless you.”
	May we who are left not mourn her loss here, but fol-
low in the path which she has always advised us to walk
in and ever be found striving to follow in the path of duty
that it may be said of each of us, as it is of our beloved
President, she is a fit subject to enter into that glorious
mansion which is prepared for the faithful, for, “A good
name is rather to be chosen than great riches and loving
favor rather than silver and glod.’’
SARAH E. MITCHELL, Sec.


THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman’s Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
dress for $3.00 per year.
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
Womans’s Co-operative Inst’n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
