Vol. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1892.		No. 21


CONTENTS.

	Manners of Working Women—N. V. D. In
Rural England—A Story. The Good Spirit—M.
E. Kimball. In Memoriam—Alma Alden. Cure
for Diptheria. Woman's Work in Mexico—M.
Woman's Rights—Annie E. Waldron. Lady
Somerset's Good-bye—Ex. Economy of Time—
Sarah Ann Howard. World's Fair Notes.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Fast Day May First. Editorial
Notes. Birthday Party. Birthday Anniversary.
Resolutions of Respect. Nurses and Accoucheurs.
U. W. P. Club—Ellis R. Shipp, M. D., Sec.
Seventy-Second Anniversary—Edward Stevenson.
	POETRY:—The Capstone—R. M. F. Differ-
ences—L. Lula G. Richards. Outgrown—Julia
C. R. Dorr.


[Column 1]

THE CAPSTONE.

Hearken! O ye house of Israel
	List, ye nations one and all,
Hear it echo from the mountains,
	Know ye not the prophet's call!
See the stars, and stripes are waving
	From the temple's topmost tow'r,
While below proud hearts are melting
	With the impress of the hour.

'Tis a joyous day for Israel,
	Lo! the Capstone has been laid;
Saints and prophets, sires and sages,
	For this day have longed and prayed;
See the mighty hosts assembled,
	Hear the hills and valleys ring,
With the shouts and loud hosannas
	Which they raise to God their king.

Gaze upon the massive structure,
	With its gleaming spires like gold.
While the angel through his trumpet
	Seems to shout, ye nations, hold!
I've a message to deliver,
	Cease one moment from your strife;
Listen to the joyful tidings,
	I have brought eternal life.

Do you know and understand it?
	Once more Father calls to you,
My kingdom's nigh, repent! repent!
	Time is short, the years are few.
Come up to the house of Jacob,
	Honest hearts from ev'ry clime,
Saint or sinner, Jew or Gentile
	Know ye not ye all are mine?

Come and listen to my servants,
	Heed their teachings while 'tis day;
O how often I have warned you,
	To seek out the narrow way.
Aye, how oft my wayward children,
	I have called to you in vain;
But my heart is filled with pity
	So I call you once again.

'Tis the everlasting Gospel,
	Through my servants I proclaim;
Yet in anger you reject them
	Some of them you e'en have slain,
If you won't receive their teachings,
	Cease, O, cease your bitter hate,
For their wrongs make reparation,
	Hasten, ere it be too late.

Soon there comes a day of Judgment,
	Even now 'tis at your door,
When dark scenes of desolation,
	Over land and sea shall pour.
When the troubles come upon you,
	And you feel the chast'ning rod,
Then perchance you'll think of Zion,
	And the humble ones of God,

[Column 2]

That have crossed the trackless desert,
	Many long and weary miles,
And for liberty of conscience,
	Many times have been exiles;
Yet they've builded these foundations,
	And they laid them broad and deep;
Upon which mine holy temple,
	Shall in grandeur stand complete.

So again I've sent to warn you,
	To flee from your native lands,
And come gather with my people
	Who shall teach you my commands.
They shall teach you truth and virtue,
	And amid the trying hour;
You shall gather round my temples
	And be witness' of my pow'r.

			R. M. F,


[Column 1]

MANNERS OF WORKING WOMEN.

	The question, whether woman should be
allowed to be independent and earn her own
living is no longer open to debate. How she
shall earn it, has also been answered, by throw-
ing open to her almost every line of business to
which she seeks admittance. A new element
has been introduced into society, and that it
is a fixed element no one will deny. What
the effect will be is not so easily foreseen.
	Every day you may see on our streets a
large number of women, who go quietly and
briskly to their different vocations. The ma-
jority are stenographers and clerks, though
there is a slight sprinkling of dress makers,
telephone exchange girls, compositors, and girls
who work in book-binderies, and printing offices.
They are not brusque, masculine creatures as
you might expect; on the contrary they wear
bangs and ruffles and laces just as other wo-
men do. Some are pretty and some are plain;
some plump, some thin, and so far as appear-
ances go, they are like the rest of womenkind
who are not wage-earners.
	Are their manners coarse and their language
uncultivated? In order that you may better
judge of that, let me tell you how they lived
in a boarding home, in another city, which
I visited not long since. One girl introduced
me, another took me to the tea-table, a third
invited me to family worship; and when I walk-
ed by mistake into a stranger's room, she did
not swear, nor cast a boot jack at me, but quiet-
ly, donned wrapper and slippers and guided me
to my own room.
	So far as conversation is concerned you will
not hear any more slang and silly expressions
there, than in a young lady's boarding school
or co-educational institution. At the table,
one day, I heard the following quotation in
regard to the potatoes, which a stenographer
pronounced bonus, melior optimus, and there
were discussions in regard to theological tenets,
mission schools, parties, the news of the day,
entertainments, etc. Just before tea time, a
slight little girl came into the library and sat
down by the register to warm herself.
	"Are you cold, Miss H.?" asked another girl,
who sat near, reading. "Yes, I am chilled
through and through. Had to work all day
(this was in January.) without a fire. They
are taking out the furnaces to put in steam,
and I've had to work with a shawl around me."
	"Oh! Miss H——, play something for us
won't you?" interrupted a third.
	"What shall I play?"
	"A waltz."

[Column 2]

	And in a minute the chilled fingers were
getting warm upon the keys of the piano, and
the little girl forgot as she played so eagerly
that for ten hours, those same fingers had put
paper into a printing machine for ten cents an
hour. In a short time a dozen young ladies
were waltzing as merrily as a lot of school girls,
far merrier than many school girls of the pres-
ent day, who have to spend so much strength,
nerve and energy upon their lessons, that
dancing is a discipline and not a pleasure.
	In the reception room after breakfast a half
dozen girls meet to gossip and look over the
daily papers. One pale, thin girl drew her
shawl over her shoulders, arranged herself
comfortably on the sofa, and said, "My cold is
so bad, the Doctor says I can't go to the tele-
phone exchange today. Won't Miss M. the
manager be put out? You see its harder to
get a girl to supply in the day time, as the
night workers are too tired, and you cannot
find any else. I've had a new girl the past
week, trying to teach her the work, and I was
completely tired out. Women are so stupid
about telephones anyway. I'd rather have ten
men ring up exchange than one women. A
woman will ring and ring, and before she has
listened for your answer, she will ring again,
and you'd better drop the 'phone quick or she'll
give you a ring in the ear, and that is no
laughing matter. After she has rung half-a-
dozen times and has finally listened for your
answer, then she says Excha-a-nge, can you tell
me whether Mrs. So-and-So has a telephone?
After you've told her politely, to look in her
book and see, she'll probably say, "But Ex-
change, I've lost my book." So you must
find out and tell her. A man won't lose his
book. He won't ask about a telephone num-
ber unless it isn't in his book."
	"Do you like it in the exchange?" Asked
a visitor.
	"Oh! yes," she said, "The work is light after
all. You have to keep your wits about you.
The only thing is so much electricity is hard
on the system, makes you nervous." And she
gave a dry hacking cough and listlessly folded
her hands.
	Two pretty stenographers were chatting
by the window.
	"Do you know we're both invited by Rev.
R——and wife to come out to their mission?
Then we are invited to stay to tea. There's a
young minister helping him. We must look
up some theological points, so as to have an
interesting discussion." And thus they chat-
ted on.
	This is a sketch of women as they appear in
a working woman's home, but there is the same
type in other places.
	In manners and morals working women
do not compare unfavorably with their more
fortunate sisters? Contact with the world gives
shrewdness; self-dependence, produces dignity
in many cases, and politeness is necessary to
their positions. Working for bread has made
and will make a difference, in the lives of wo-
men.
	We honor the working girl because she has
done so well; and we ask that something be
done for her. Young men have their clubs,
lodges and associations, where they can go and
find suitable and profitable companionship;
but what is there for young women? In how
many cities are there clubs, industrial unions
or "Homes" for young women? There are art
clubs, literary clubs, musical clubs, for women


who have homes, friends, money, and the com-
forts of life. What is there for the woman who
has none of these? Work: that must be all of
life to her, and that is not enough. She can
only earn enough to clothe and house herself.
Clearly, then, some one who has money must
do for the working woman what she can not do
for herself. If in every city there were work-
ing women's "Homes" and clubs life would be
much brighter and sweeter for hundreds of
women.		N. V. D.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIII.
	The interview between the doctor and Lady
Walton was not decisive, and rather unsatis-
factory than otherwise, yet Doctor Bland felt
hopeful of good results. He had given Lady
Walton some telling points and had succeeded
in making her feel she had a positive duty in
the matter, the responsibility of which she
could not evade.
	The doctor made a report of his visit to
Miss Conway and, at the same time, urged his
own cause so demonstratively that Jane felt
she could not much longer delay her betrothal.
She was free to accept an offer now that her
uncle was dead, who was really the only per-
son likely to have interfered, and she knew
he would approve of the doctor for he had
the utmost confidence in him. That he was
so much older, did not seem so objectionable
to Miss Conway as it would to most young
women, and she was in mind and character
companionable to both old and young.
	While she was revolving in her mind, what
she ought to do, and internally resolved not
to equivocate in the least, but give assurance
to her lover, or make a refusal of all which he
would be compelled to take as final, another
event occured that caused delay.
	The long expected stranger arrived; his com-
ing had been postponed until the gossip con-
cerning him had almost ceased; but when he
came it was renewed with all sorts of extrava-
gant exaggerations, and was more than a "nine
days wonder" in all the country side. He
came at night fall on horseback like a very
troubadour, only that he was accompanied by
good Mr. Burke who came with due ceremony
to install him at the "old ruin" as it was now
almost invariably styled. The family were
prepared, that is his apartments had been
made ready weeks before, and as for the larder
it was well supplied. "There will be queer
goings on when this young interloper comes,"
the old housekeeper had been saying to one
and another, "he'll have a lot of those foreign-
ers comin, to hunt no doubt, no better'n gyp-
sies—that's the race he comes of I warrant,
I've seen some dark-eyed dark-haired, heavy-
browed women, now and agin at night time
when there's been huntin going on, and rolick-
ing at nights, and we all kept up late with
midnight suppers and carousals."
	The doctor and lawyer were both his escorts
at the mansion, and Miss Conway acted as
hostess, and did her part grandly, as she al-
ways did everything. Lady Anna absented
herself as usual; she could not be persuaded to
come down—was, indisposed, her cousin had
said in apologizing for her. Burke insisted
on seeing her as he must leave early, but it
was of no avail; she had really been very
ill, and even the doctor himself dare not urge
her too far. Dinner was served as it had been
in Sir Edward's time, and though there was
some restraint in the manner of welcome, it
passed off without unpleasantness, and, after
some explanation concerning his journey, Mr.
Clairville retired to the apartments assigned
him. His benefactor's valet attended him, and
Miss Conway was left with the two gentlemen
alone, hoping that the mystery which envelop-

[Column 2]

ed this young man might be more satisfactor-
ily explained, yet dreading to inquire into any-
thing so enveloped in mystery. Finding her-
self de trop, she bade her visitors good night
and hurried to her cousin's room, who eagerly
asked concerning the new arrival.
	"What is he like, Jane, and how does he
carry himself?" "Is he—" and she paused a
moment, "is he anything like your uncle?" and
a great sob seemed to well up in her throat;
but she choked it down bravely. No, not at
all,  there is not the least resemblance; he
is very handsome, and a thorough gentleman—
pale and distingue; looks like a scholar, might
be a painter or musician."
	"Cousin Jane, will he assert himself as mas-
ter here, do you think, or make his presence a
dread to us?" "My dear, I cannot tell; he
spoke little, and seemed somewhat embarrassed;
his accent is peculiar, a sort of cross between
French and Italian."
	"Jane, why don't you ask about him; we
ought to know, now he has really come. I
never believed he would; I thought it would
turn out a farce of some sort, but alas! it is
serious enough; and, Jane, you look so sad too,
and I am not equal to all these changes."
Here the poor girl broke down utterly and the
maid was summoned to assist in putting her to
bed, while a sedative was administered to keep
her quiet. It was hours before she slept, and
then Jane stole away to her own room where
she lay dozing and half unconcious, not know-
ing what the morning would reveal, but deter-
mined, let what would come, she would pro-
tect and stand by her fragile, romantic cousin,
left orphaned and alone in the world.
	Early on the following morning she was
called down stairs to meet Mr. Burke, ere he
set out for London. He looked cross and wor-
ried as she entered the room, and his "Good
morning, Miss Conway," was decidedly im-
patient in tone.
	"I am compelled to return to town today;
Doctor Bland will make the needful expla-
nations. I only want to say, Monsieur Clair-
ville will remain here permanently now; I
shall be down again in a week's time and will
look after the settlements. You understand, I
presume, he is Sir Edward's son by an ill-as-
sorted marriage—a foreign actress, singer or
something of the sort. I'm not clear myself as
to his pedigree, but he's here to stay." This was
spoken with some irritability of manner as he
looked up and saw that Miss Conway had turned
very red in the face, and he brought down
his fist on the table at which he was seated and
nearly shivered the china, for his breakfast
had been brought in there that he might be off
hurriedly. It was scarcely light.
	Miss Conway made no reply, which angered
him exceedingly. "Zounds!" he exclaimed
"has'nt a man a right to his own inheritance,
let his mother be what she may? She's dead,
and can't trouble you any way!"
	By this time Jane recovered her composure
sufficiently to say, "When Doctor Bland con-
descends to tell us how matters stand, we shall
know what is best to be done."
	This enraged the lawyer beyond self-control,
and he declared women were always interfering,
where they had no business, and stalked out of
the room slamming the great, heavy door be-
hind him, and Jane sat stupefied, though she
distinctly heard him say to himself as he bang-
ed the door "these pestiferous women folks."
	Monsieur Clairville was a gentleman in all
his tastes and inclinations; even the servants
soon recognized his superiority, though they
were slow to acknowledge, or even to be civil
to the new comer, whom they looked upon as
no better than he should be, not having been
informed of his actual position. One need not
think it strange that Sir Edward had not
shown any affection for him, when he had not
even acknowledged his marriage to the boy's 

[Column 3]

mother. In fact, he had never seen him. The
young man was as much mystified as the young
ladies of the household, and really he was only
a boy, though tall and older looking than his
years. His mother had been dead many years
and he had never known aught of his father
save from his grandmother, who knew very lit-
tle herself, but insisted he was, "a wicked
English nobleman." She petted and indulged
the boy, and when he was sent away from her
to school she mourned for him as though he
were dead, for she realized he could never be
the same to her again any more than Marie his
mother had been after she went away among
great people. Money had been furnished reg-
ulary for the child's maintenance, through
other parties, and the name he bore was that
of the mother, assumed when she left the shel-
ter of home to go out as a singer into the great
world.
	The morning after Clair's arrival at the old
castle, he too arose early and went forth to
look at the place of which, during the last few
weeks, he had heard so much. He roved about
aimlessly, not knowing where to find the most
beauty (for he was an ardent admirer of the
beautiful,) and the morning was a glorious one;
the green fields and magnificent old trees were
charmingly luxuriant in flowers and foliage.
He could scarcely believe he had any part or
portion in this fine estate, so entirely different
from anything he had ever seen before. He
missed something though, for the country there
was somewhat level; though, the fine old woods
not far away made the landscape less tiresome
to one accustomed to the mountainous districts
where his life had been passed. How lonely
he felt withal, and he sighed as he thought
of the new scenes into which he must enter,
and tried to imagine how he ought to meet the
young lady (his sister) Mr. Burke had said,
he could scarcely believe it was true, though
he had been duly informed of the details; yet
Burke had represented her as such an aristo-
cratic creature, and, "mind you, young man,
she may not speak to you for months." These
were the exact words, so he did not anticipate
a very warm welcome from the ladies of the
household. It was late when he found his way
back to the house, for he had enjoyed the fresh
morning breeze and the songs of the birds, and
the freedom, of the out door scenes, and he
dreaded the drawing room and table etiquette,
and most of all the ladies of whom he knew so
little, especially ladies of rank. Again and
again he tried to decide what he should say
and how comport himself, but on this score his
mind was a blank. "If only Burke had re-
mained a day or two, or if the doctor would
come to my aid," but it was a hopeless case,
he must face it alone. He had already been
presented to Miss Conway, and he was inward-
ly thankful for that. He was so bewildered
he could scarcely find the way to his own room
where his valet was waiting, and vexed too
and he had to submit to such brushing and
polishing all of which seemed superfluous, and
at last he was told the family had been wait-
ing breakfast for hours. When he entered the
morning room where his cousin was he was
informed that Lady Anna was indisposed and
that she seldom came down stairs in the morn-
ing.  He ventured at last to ask "when shall
I see my sister, Lady Anna I mean; will you
have the kindness to introduce me, cousin Jane,
Miss Conway I should say?"
	"Certainly Monsieur Clairville, Hilliard,
pardon me Sir, we are such strangers and
scarce accustomed to each other's names as
yet."
	After the first few words exchanged between
them, these two conversed easily of this and
that; the young man was enthusiastic in regard
to the grounds he had seen, and Miss Conway
found him very entertaining. The day was not
so tedious to Clair as he had expected, and to-


wards evening he was formally presented to
his newly-found sister, who received him with a
cold indifference, yet when she learned that he
could sing with the guitar warmed towards
him considerably and begged him to give them
some music. The songs were magical as it
were, and the ice was broken.
	Dr. Bland, coming in later, found quite a
happy party, and the evening hours flew swift-
ly by; and when the time for retirement came
the good nights were reluctantly spoken. Mon-
sieur Clairville felt as though it must be all a
dream or a bewitching fairy tale.


thing; for it is written, "The proud and they
who do wickedly shall be as stubble and shall
be burned up." Pride being a delusive spirit
we may do wickedly before we are aware of it;
rather let us seek to be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of the Good Spirit which is a spirit
of love and confidence in good, also gives us
that peace of mind the world can neither give
or take from us.
	This being the important lesson of life, may
we learn it well, is the fervent desire of,
						M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	163


DIFFERENCES.
	TO SISTER ELVIRA, ON HER 60TH BIRTHDAY,
				MARCH 17, 1892.
"Not all alike!” Ah no! This world would be
	A stupid one, if we were all the same;
If on each point we could at once agree,
	Soon conversation would grow weak and tame.

One likes an apple best, and one a peach,
	Another still, prefers the luscious pear;
Important lessons these small items teach,
	When we can pause, and give them timely care.

For, as the mouth, so also is the mind;
	Strange differences control these heads of ours;
A grain of thought. keen, witty, or refined,
	One slights, another eagerly devours.

Some rise in grand sublimity aloft,
	The average mind of mortals far above;
And some like simple music, low and soft,
	Find comfort, strength and joy in quiet love. 

But oh! how bless’d the being in whose heart, 
	The Gospel key-note is for each attuned;
Who finds throughout God’s garden, in each part, 
	Rich fruits,though vines and trees are yet unpruned.

Who, with Eliza Snow, or Whitney soars,
	High heavenward, above all earthly towers;
With Emily bright inspiration pours,
	Or walks with “Emile” through fair, buried bowers.

With Zion's thousand poets offers praise,
	Or shouts heroic in the Truth’s defence;
Then joins with "Lula's” artless, childlike plays,
	In loving homage to sweet innocence.

Such is thy soul, Elvira, and today,
	I’ll close this Birthday tribute, I have pen’d,
By adding, I am bless'd, to feel and say,
	I claim thee as my sister and my friend.
							L. LULA G. RICHARDS.


OUTGROWN.

Nay, you wrong her, my friend, her love, has simply out-
	grown,
One can read the whole matter translating her heart by the
	light of one's own.
Two summers ago, when you wooed her, you stood on the
	self same plane;
Face to face, heart to heart, never dreaming your soul's
	could be parted again.

She loved you at that time entirely in the bloom of her
	life's early May.
And it is not her fault, I repeat it, that she does not love
	you today.
Nature never stands still, nor souls either; they either go
	up or go down,
And hers has been steadily soaring, but how has it been
	with your own?

She has struggled and yearned and aspired; grown purer
	and wiser each year
The stars are now farther above you in yon luminous
	atmosphere. 
For she whom you crowned with fresh roses, down yonder
	five summers ago,
Has learned that the first of our duties to God and ourselves
	is to grow.
Her eyes now are sweeter and calmer, but their vision is
	clearer as well;


Her voice has a tender cadence, but is pure as a silver
	bell.
Have you, too, grown purer and wiser as the months and
	the years have rolled on?
Did you meet her this morning rejoicing in the triumphs of
	victory won?

Nay, hear me—the truth cannot harm you; when today in
	her presence you stood
Was the hand that you gave her as white and clean as that
	of her womanhood? 
Go measure yourself by her standard, look back on the
	years that have fled,
Then ask, if you need, when she tells you that the love of
	her girlhood is dead.

She cannot look down to her lover—her love, like her soul,
	aspires;
He must stand by her side or above her, who would kindle
its holiest fires.
  Womankind.					JULIA C. R. DORR.


THE GOOD SPIRIT.

	Since we are told there is an opposite in all
things; how many of us are there who do not
feel the need of the Good Spirit to teach, and
give us light and intelligence on a subject of
so much importance.
	Our Saviour had the opposing spirit to meet,
all the days of His life; and do we expect any
thing less? No not if we learn the most im-
portant lessons of life.
	You will remember when He was baptized
and come up out of the water, that He saw
the Spirit of God descending like a dove and
lighting upon Him. And lo,a voice from heaven
saying, “This is my beloved Son in whom I
am well pleased.”
	Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted of the Devil. And
when He had fasted forty days and forty
nights He afterwards hungered.
	The tempter said, ‘‘If thou be the Son of
God command that these stones be made
bread.”—But He answered and said, “It is
written, man shall not live by bread alone, but
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God.
	Accordingly those who wish to become ac-
quainted with the Deity will search the
spriptures; and the good spirit will aid them
in their pursuit, and give them the joy and in-
telligence they desire if they do it in humility
not for controversy and dispute, but an earnest
desire to become acquainted with the spirit
that Jesus said He would send to comfort and
bless all who believe in Him.
	But wait a moment did He say all? Well
it is supposed that those who do believe will
keep His commands; for it is written in John
14th chp. and 15th verse, “If ye love me, keep
my commandments. And I will pray the
Father, and He will give you another Com-
forter, that He may abide with you forever;
even the Spirit of truth; whom the world can
not receive, because it seeth Him not, neither
knoweth Him but ye shall know Him for He
dwelleth in you, and shall be in you. 18th
verse, “I will not leave you comfortless; I will
come unto you.” 19th, “Yet a little while, and
the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, be-
cause I live ye shall live also.” 15th chap.
and 14th verse he said, “Abide in me and I
in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself except it abide in the vine; no more can
ye, except ye abide in me—I am the vine and
ye are the branches; he that abideth in me
and I in him, the same bringeth forth much
fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. If a
man abide not in me,he is cast forth as a branch
and is withered; and men gather them and cast
them into the fire and they are burned.”
	Does not this show that we may lose our
faith and become as a dead branch and of no
account.
	May we never boast of being proud of any


IN MEMORIAM.
	Union Square Hall was filled with friends
and members of the W. P. A., on Saturday,
April 30, the occasion being the memorial
exercises held in honor of our dearly beloved
friend and co-worker, Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst.
All that love and affection could do, was shown
in the perfect arrangement of floral gifts and 
tributes to the honored dead. The Hall pre-
sented the appearance of a lovely bower.
One table laden with delicate roses formed a
pretty frame for the photograph of Mrs. Park-
hurst, which seemed to throw light and peace
about it. Her empty chair heavily draped in
black stood near. After an organ prelude,
Mrs. N. B. Eyester, President of the Associa-
tion spoke in a few well chosen remarks
closing with a prayer. Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper
then rose and paid a feeling tribute to her who
had passed before. Touching were the 
thoughts she gave as she dwelt upon the many
noble qualities of Mrs. Parkhurst whom she 
had known and loved for twenty years, "Dead
she is not" said Mrs. Cooper, "only a thin veil
separates Emilie now from us; God has pro-
moted her to a higher work, but she still re-
mains among us guiding us in our various
duties." A number of pathetic poems written
in her memory were read. Among them the
best being those of Mrs. Emily Brown Powell
and Mrs. Hannah Neall. The latter lady has
been appointed to fill the chair left vacant by 
Mrs. Parkhurst. Letters of sympathy had
been received from all over the State. Tributes
of affection from those who knew and loved
her well. The music rendered was pathetic
and appropriate. The resolutions as adopted
were read and a copy was ordered to be sent 
to the bereaved family. Badges of mourning
were distributed to members, who were re-
quested to wear them thirty days. After the
audience singing "Nearer my God to Thee,"
the memorial exercises were at an end. None 
can express the deep sorrow that has befallen
not only the Association but hosts of admirers
and friend in this irreparable loss.
						ALMA ALDEN.
   San Francisco, May 4, 1892.


CURE FOR DIPHTHERIA.
	The Scientific American gives this remedy
for diphtheria: “At the first indication of
diphtheria in the child, make the room close,
then take a tin cup and pour into it a quantity
of tar and turpentine, equal parts. Then
hold the cup over the fire so as to fill the room
with fumes. The little patient on inhaling
the fumes will cough and spit out the mem-
braneous matter and the diphtheria will pass
off. The fumes of the tar and turpentine
loosen the matter in the throat and thus afford
the relief that has baffled the skill of physi-
cians.


The worthiest people are the most injured by
slander, as we usually find that to be the
best fruit which the birds have been pecking
at.—Swift.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1892.


FAST DAY MAY FIRST.
	The Fast meetings in the several wards in
this City on Sunday, the first of May, seem to
have been general seasons of rejoicing from the
reports and the spirit and feeling that has mani-
fested itself, and the liberality in giving for the
purpose designed. In most places there was
great freedom in speaking and the Spirit of God
was apparent. Large sums of money were do-
nated and there is no doubt but the Lord will pour
out a blessing upon his people proportionate to
the sacrifices made freely for the House of the
Lord, here in the center Stake of Zion. The poor
as well as the rich have part in this matter, and as
has been stated repeatedly by the Elders and
Bishops of the Church, the small amounts given
by them are as acceptable in the sight of the Lord
as the greater gifts from the abundance of the rich
and in this we have the beautiful illustration
of our Savior, in the New Testament where it is
written:
	“And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and
beheld how the people cast money into the
treasury; and many that were rich cast in much.
	“And there came a certain poor widow, and she
threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
	“And he called unto him his disciples, and
saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this
poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which
have cast into the treasury.
	“For all they did cast in of their abundance;
but she of her want did cast in all that she had,
even all her living,"
	We were strangely reminded of this in the re-
marks of President Cannon at the Priesthood
meeting when he said even the poorest among
our people who received support from the Church
should pay tithing of that which they received.
Those who give to the poor the Savior said
“lendeth to the Lord,” but there must surely be a
greater blessing when the poor give of their
scanty means.
	The circumstances under which this people
have built Temples are almost marvelous. In
Nauvoo many lived on potatoes and salt with
sometimes a little corn meal; and when they
could no longer subsist would leave for a respite
to go and work a few days for some one outside
who could afford to pay them, that they might
have support for their families while they were
laboring upon the Temple. One brother who
died recently labored there without remuneration
and so zealous was he to perform that work
“stone cutting,” that he fasted until he fainted at
his work. In Kirtland the sisters who had cows
that gave milk would never use butter upon their
own tables, but gave it all as a free donation to
the men who worked on the Temple; and many
other sacrifices the saints made in those early
days, that those of this generation know not of.
	If some of our young sisters now thought it

[Column 2]
needful, they might contribute of their abundance,
and surely the Lord would pour out blessings
more than recompense. Some young girls we
are aware have already given liberally; and their
names are recorded, and they will never regret
giving for such a noble purpose. Zion is to be
built up by the Saints, not altogether the rich but
the poor, the working people, those who earn
their bread by the sweat of their brow, and not
only men but women; they have their part to do
in the great Latter-day dispensation, and an active
part, though they do not preach the Gospel to the
nations; their testimony to the truth, their fidelity
and faithfulness are as necessary as that of the
Elders in Israel, and when the Temples are dedi-
cated and the work of redemption for the dead is
to be performed their help is just as essential.
	Already Zion is beginning to be the wonder of
the world, and the eyes of all nations are upon
her. There is much to be done and there need
be no idlers in the vineyard. The young people
have much cause for gratitude that their lines are
cast in pleasant places compared to those of the
early pioneers in the work; and if their oppor-
tunities are greater, more will be required at their
hands. The greatness and magnitude of the work
increases, and the need of superior talent is be-
coming more and more apparent. The arts and
sciences open up avenues whereby many things
can be ingeniously and skillfully, done that
formerly took years to accomplish in the old way.
In various ways the Lord is hastening his work-


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	This is the time of paying memberships for the
coming year for the Hospital, and all those who
feel like paying up dues, already left over will
confer a favor by coming forward with the means;
also those who pay regularly will please remem-
ber their membership expires with May 1892.—As
the Hospital is at present very much in need of
funds, favors small or large will be gladly well
comed.
	A benevolent sister interested in the welfare of
the sick and afflicted has recently made a very
acceptable and useful donation to the Deseret
Hospital, which the Board of Directors gratefully
acknowledge with thanks. The gift consists of a
complete bedroom set with bed and bed furnish-
ings bed linen etc., new and of good quality; the
lady also intends to replenish the bedding, towels
and other things when needful, from time to time;
that is to keep up this one bed etc. The ladies of 
the Board have for ten years now labored faith-
fully for this charitable institution, and any gift of
this sort is perhaps more fully appreciated be-
cause of the small resources available to keep up
the current expenses of the institution. Many
others of our sisters could well afford to do this
and would be conferring a blessing indeed upon
suffering humanity.
	We had the pleasure in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young of this City, of visiting on
Wednesday and Thursday of last week, Spring-
ville and Payson in the interest of the Relief
Society. Pres. Mary John and her Counselor
Marilla Daniels of Utah Stake had invited us to
go with them on this trip as changes were to be
made in the organizations. At Springville four
new branches were made out of the former one,
and at Payson two branches from the one; as
these large wards had been divided and new
Bishops set apart to preside, it became necessary
also to make these changes in the Relief Society.
We were everywhere cordially welcomed and the
meetings were well attended by both brethren
and sisters; the Bishops at each place mani-
festing special interest in the work of the sisters.
Sisters John and Daniels went on to Goshen to
hold meetings there on Friday, and Sister Young


remained over a day at Springville to visit her
brother, Oliver B. Huntington, while we returned
home Friday morning, well pleased with the visit,
fuller particulars of which will be given in our
next issue.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Thursday evening, May 5th, the home of
Brother and Sister Jos. H. Felt was invaded by a
host of their friends who had arranged to surprise
Sister Louie Felt on the anniversary of her birth-
day. A genuine surprise it proved to be, but
nevertheless the lady proved herself equal to the
occasion, and opened her parlors to the unbidden
guests. A very merry crowd they were, and the
evening passed pleasantly with songs and recita-
tions, good-humored jokes, and some graver
speeches and withal an excellent spirit.
	The first speech was by President Jos. E.
Taylor, who referred to the many good deeds of
the hostess, and testified of the power made
manifest in her behalf when she lay ill and given
up to die, by the physician and many of her
friends; said much calculated to comfort and en-
courage her, and warmly congratulated her on her
birthday etc. Brother Charles Livingston sang a
real old-fashioned Scotch song; Louie Felt, the
daughter, sang with piano accompaniment “Sing
me the sweet old songs,” and one or two others,
she has a fresh clesr voice; Miss May Anderson
and Miss Felt played a duet on the piano which
the lovers of instrumental music very much en-
joyed. Brother Charles Denney gave the “Rose
of Allandale,” acquitting himself well; and
Brother Elihu Barrell, also sang one of the
favorite ballads;  Mrs. Nellie Taylor recited in
her usual dramatic style “Her Letter,” President
C.W. Penrose, L. T. Freeze, B. H. Roberts and
E.B. Wells each made a few remarks; Brother C.
B. Felt recited very pathetically the poem “Too
Late.” Excellent refreshments were served dur-
ing the evening by the young girls present, and a
general good feeling animated all. Sister Louie
Felt responded to the call of Brother Penrose for
an expression of her feelings, in a few well chosen
words, testifying to her love for and appreciation
of her many kind friends, and Elder J. H. Felt
made the closing speech, thanking one and all for
this expression of affection and regard. It was
certainly an enjoyable evening calculated to cheer
the hearts of all who participated therein. Mrs.
L. L. Felt, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, and Della
Eardley were the originaters we were informed of
the demonstration. About sixty persons were
present.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Tuesday, May third,was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birthday of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, one of the most noted, and one of the best
known women in all Israel. She is the widow of
the late President George A. Smith, a cousin of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and for many years
First Counselor to President Brigham Young.
Sister Smith holds the honored position of Coun-
selor to Sister Zina D. H. Young, General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The party given in
honor of Sister Smith’s birthday was held at the
residence of her grand-daughter, Mrs. George
Horne, in the 19th Ward.
	The First Presidency of the Church were
present, Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon,
and Joseph F. Smith, and the Presiding Bishop,
Wm. B. Preston, also the Bishop of the Ward,
John Tingey, and Hon. C. W. Penrose of the
Presidency of this Stake, Patriarch Joseph Horne
and some other brethren among whom we noticed
Fred Taylor, M. D., son of President John
Taylor, who has recently returned from abroad.


There were, as a natural consequence in a party
of this kind many more sisters than brethren;
Mesdames Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Emma Woodruff, Harriet A.
Preston, Eliza T. Cannon, Priscilla Jennings,
Julina Smith, Bathsheba Merrill, E. B. Wells,
Sarah J. Smith, Maria W. Wilcox, Julia Pack,
Helen Smith, Romania B. Pratt, M. D., Elizabeth
Stevenson and others too, many to mention all
the names.
	It was a very pleasant affair, the company all
seemed to vie with each other in bestowing
merited praise and good words upon Sister Smith
the heroine of the occasion, and in truth a real
heroine, when one considers what she has en-
dured for the Gospel's sake. Many floral gifts
were presented and other pretty and appropriate
remembrances for friendship's sake.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Preston and short
speeches were made by President Woodruff and
President Cannon, Sister Kimball and Sister
Young and by President Smith; each of the
speakers referred to their long acquaintance with
Sister Smith and the pleasant remembrances of
the days gone by, as well as the trying scenes
through which they had passed together.
	Sister Smith made some very appropriate re-
marks appreciative of the good wishes and kind
feelings of her friends who had honored her, and
expressed her joy in the Gospel, her countenance
beaming with delight and satisfaction she looked
indeed beautiful with the crown of seventy years
upon her head, and the spiritual development to
which she has attained through a life of devotion
and sacrifice for the good of others. The bless-
ings pronounced upon her by the servants of God
during the evening, bore evidence of the high
estimation in which she is held and her purity of
life and character. Her example is worthy of
imitation by the daughters of Zion.
	Refreshments consisting of many delicacies,
were served to the guests in a dainty fashion by
the young ladies of the family, on small tables at
which a few could be seated and chat socially;
and time flew quickly as ever when old friends
meet, and finally the party dispersed, with many
congratulations and good wishes for the pros-
perity, health and happiness of the revered lady
in whose honor they had assembled.
	The EXPONENT adds sincere congratulations,
and may Sister Smith continue her labors of love
among the Saints as long as life is desirable, the
spirit of peace and love abide in her heart and in
her habitation forever.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Died:—At her late residence in the seventh
ward of Salt Lake City, Sunday, April 17th 1892,
of apoplexy, after an illness of five days, Mrs.
Jane C. Richardson, wife of the late Dr. Darwin
C. Richardson.
	The deceased was born in Lisbon, New Hamp-
shire, Oct. 15th, 1819. Arrived in this city Sept.
26th 1847, the same year as the pioneers.
	Whereas—our sister has been taken from us by
the remorseless hand of death, we feel that a
noble woman has fallen, we have lost an honored
and loved friend, and our Relief Society, of which
she has been Treasurer for the past twenty-two
years, an efficient and faithful officer, and the poor
a sympathetic, generous provider, therefore be it—
	Resolved—that we deeply mourn for one who
was in every way worthy of our love and highest
regard; that we will ever strive to emulate her
estimable qualities, and follow her noble and self-
sacrificing example.
	Resolved—that we sincerely condole with the
family of the departed, and lovingly commend
them for consolation, to one who doeth all things
for our good, and whose chastisements are ever
in mercy.


Resolved—that this heartfelt testimonial of our
sorrow and sympathy be presented to the be-
reaved family, also placed upon the record of our
Relief Society and published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.
			MRS. M. W. WILCOX, President.
			MAGGIE Y, TAYLOR,
			E. J. STEVENSON,
				Counselors.
			ELMINA S, TAYLOR, Secretary.


NURSES AND ACCOUCHEURS.

	On Thursday evening, April 29, 1892, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics and Nursing met
at her residence, to enjoy a few hours socially
after the winter's close application to study and
their recent examinations which were passed suc-
cessfully.
	A number of intimate friends met them, our be-
loved sister, Zina D. H. Young, joining in the
congratulations, and timely counsels to the ladies
just starting out upon their important labors of
love and kindly ministration among the sick and
suffering of their own sex.
	Those who passed successful examinations
are Mrs. Lena H. Jenkenson, Mrs. Margaret
Sharp, Miss Anna Hansen, Miss Hilda Forsburg,
Salt Lake City; Mrs. Emilie Jensen, Newton,
Cache County; Mrs. Ardell Allen, New Mexico;
and Miss Lillie Darnall, Ogden.
	Dr. Shipp will open another class soon at No. 34
South 7th East St.


[Column 1]

U. W. P. CLUB.

	The U. W. P. Club met at the EXPONENT
parlor, March 31, 1892. Prayer by L. T. Freeze,
minutes read and approved. First on the pro-
gramme, an original article entitled "Benefits of
the Club," by M. A. Freeze, brought out many
new points for consideration and improvement.
	Notes on the life and work of the author of
"The Course of Time" Robert Pollock, Lula G.
Richards.
	"Jean Vou Jean" by Victor Hugo, of whom it
has been said, "had he written nothing else would
have made his name immortal," feelingly recited
by C. L. Boyden. Miss G. L. Brown favored the
club with very sweet piano music.
	"Newspaper Women" an interesting article by
Di Vernon, a well known writer, was read by
Gladys Woodmansee, and the subject freely dis-
cussed by the members, thought it not necessary
that one should understand all the workings of
the printing press to be a newspaper woman.
Literary ability both natural and acquired the
predominant features. The manner in which
some reporters write up society women con-
sidered absurd, and to be frowned down by all
truly sensible women, especially when such
articles refer solely to personal charms, style of
dress, and the manner in which they serve their
dinners. Considered that intellectual attainments
and noble traits of character should predomi-
nate.
	By special request C. L. Boyden recited the
"Prisoner of Hungary," the enthusiasm of the
audience evincing both their taste for this refining
art and the superior ability of the artist.
	The Pres. suggested that we have a list of the
members and call the roll at each meeting, and
that certain members be appointed to prepare
articles for the next club meeting, and also thought
it advisable that each should have some article
in readiness in case of delinquency of those on
the programme, that our time might be well em-
ployed and that we might realize mutual benefit.
	The following programme was arranged for
April 30, 1892.
	Miss N. V. Davis to prepare an article on Wo-
man's Work.

[Column 2]

	S. Y. Gates and Josephine Spencer, Pen
Names. Song, Gladys Woodmansee. Humorous
Recitation, C. L. Boyden. Bellamy's "Looking
Backward" to be reviewed by the club.
	G. L. Brown, C. C. R. Wells and L. G. Richards
to discuss the subject of the book.
	Benediction by M. A. Freeze.
	Refreshments served and social chat indulged
in till a late hour.
		E. R. SHIPP, Sec.

U. W. P. CLUB.
	The U. W. P. Club met as per adjournment,
April 30, 1892, in the parlors of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. E. B. Wells presiding. Prayer by Dr.
R. B. Pratt. Minutes accepted as read. Letters
of regret for non-attendance were read from
Gladys Woodmansee and C. Louise Boyden.
	N. V. Davis read an original article on "Wo-
man's Work," after which followed an animated
discussion of the subject by members of the club.
The great question resolving itself in the one
idea, should remuneration for labor be based upon
intellectual culture and thought, or simple me-
chanical execution—or a happy medium between 
the two—namely, should a man receive the same
fee for an hour's work at the anvil, as the surgeon
for the length of time at the operating table?
	An original poem read by Ruth M. Fox, en-
titled "The Capstone."
	An article on "Nationalism" read by the author,
C. C. R. Wells.
	Musical selection by Olea Shipp.
	Dainty refreshments were served, and the bene-
diction pronounced by Phebe C. Young.
	Programme for May. One half hour for busi-
ness. Articles on "Woman's Work" by E. B.
Wells and Phebe C. Young; "Pen Names" by
Susa Y. Gates and Josephine Spencer; N. V. Davis
an article entitled "Are our Teachers Well Edu-
cated." Dr. R. B. Pratt, piano solo; Miss G. L.
Brown, original poem.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D. Sec.


ORDER OF EXERCISES OF U. W. P. C.

OPENING EXERCISES	.	.	Prayer	.	.    7.30 P. M.
ORDER OF BUSINESS	.	.	Unfinished Business,
									New Business.
LITERARY PROGRAM	.	.	.	.	.	.	. 8 P. M.
DISCUSSION AND REFRESHMENTS	.	.	.	. 9 P. M.
ADJOURNMENT	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	10 P. M.


SEVENTY-SECOND ANNIVERSARY.

	Chihuahua, Mexico, May 1st, 1892.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister Wells.—Just two years ago this
very evening, yourself in connection with
about three hundred other precious and choice
souls, met in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, to
celebrate the 70th anniversary of my mission here
upon this to me, a New World; and in concert
with our loved poetess, who has returned to God
our Heavenly Father from whence we came, this
I can say "inspiredly,"

	"For a wise and glorious purpose
	   Thou hast placed me here on earth,
	And withheld the recollection
	   Of my former friends and birth.

	This is my 72nd anniversary, and in Old
Mexico, far, far away, from loved ones; and now
I propose giving you a brief sketch of how my
72nd birthday was disposed of, in the City of
Chihuahua, Old Mexico, and also a discription of
this city and people, customs and mode of living,
or in other words my 72nd birthday in Mexico.
	At 5 a. m. as the grayest light of morn began
faintly to cast its shadows around, so I began the
new born year of my 73rd, with thanksgiving and
adoration for so successful a voyage over the


[Column 1]

ocean of life of the past 72 years gone, yes, gone,
never, no, never, to be recalled again.
	I also importuned God's mercy and blessing
for His continued prosperity not only until the
proximity of the 73rd but onward unto the 80th
anniversary, unto which yourself and that
numerous, yes happy company, were all invited to
celebrate in Salt Lake City. Indeed as a dream
it is so and surely one-fifth of the time has al-
ready elapsed.
	The 1st day of May falls on Sunday, and Labor
day, both holidays in this place, and I avail my-
self of the celebration by chance of the gala day as
the elite of the city will be out on the Pallisades,
and the best carriages and horses will traverse
the Alamada in the evening.
	Chihuahua has a population of 28,000, and an
altitude of 4,713 feet, and is situated about 250
miles Southwest of El Paso, Texas, on the Mexi-
can Central Railroad, to the City of Mexico, and
about 1,000 miles Northeast of Mexico City.
	Some mountains and dry peaks surround this
City, without a particle of vegetation, not even a
solitary tree is visible, everything is very dry
and a great scarcity of water, an aqueduct brings
drinking water about eight miles to the city, the
aqueduct is in some places 25 feet high, in one
place we counted forty arches, it looks very mas-
sive of stone; a few fountains of free water are
patronized by the poorer classes, one particularly
in a Pallisade near the Catholic Cathedral, here
two men carry a twenty gallon barrel suspended to
a pole, each man with the end of the pole on his
shoulder, and finds it a welcome over one-fourth of
a mile away for domestic purposes; another with
two five gallon oil cans attached to a shorter pole
and one man with the pole on his shoulder trots
away after filling them with a gourd; now comes
the many Rebecca's with their pitchers, a sort of
jug, on their shoulders or heads, I said to my
dear little brother, J. C. Bentley of St. George,
(and the only Utah companion in this place,) I
will go to that black haired, and dark eyed
Rebecca for a drink, she lifted her pitcher and I
drank, "lifted up my eyes" and thanked God that
our Rebecca's at home could get their water from
city creek by turning the tap at home in their
kitchens.
	After our walk on this lovely morning we stepped
into the Cathedral, where hundreds of poor
mostly devoted women are dipping and crossing
with holy water, bowing, kneeling, praying, count-
ing beads as	*	hugging a cross in some
corner, many for a whole hour are on their knees
while the Priest is offering incense and prayer,
consecrating sacraments etc.—Just at 8 o'clock
the bells and gong call the people together in a
rush, part of the day is spent in church but the
rest of the day is a holiday, where the Pallisades
are patronized and also the Allemanda; today is
of course extra, processions, bands of music,
speeches with cheers and enthusiasm, closing
with music in the Pallisades which are adorned
with walks and flowers. We saw more bonnets
and hats this evening than usually, nine-tenths of
the ladies wear no bonnets or hats, but their
glossy black hair, of which those women are so
proud, adorn their heads, some women and it is
quite common to, wear a light black shawl which
occasionally serves as a head covering falling
back over the shoulders. On the wide prome-
nade the ladies several abreast walk one way,
while the gents promenade in the opposite direc-
tion and on the outside generally.
	The houses are of adobies plastered, with flat
roofs; streets narrow, and the walls of the houses
or courts look much like the style of our old time
forts. But on the inside of these are flowers,
and shrubs, adorned so that the inside has more
attraction than the outside. In our Robinson
Hotel entrance from the street are heavy doors
about ten feet high with a small door where a
servant lies on a couch, so that at night the

[Column 2]

closed gates can be opened to let in the guests at
late hours, but during the day the gates are
opened; from the court is a stairway to the upper
rooms, for this Hotel is two stories high, from our
room we look into the court where are the apple
tree, pear and pomegranate trees,and also an
orange tree but it has been bitten by frost so that
it looks some like our peach and fruit trees of
1848 in Utah.
	The few windows are barricaded with bars and
a sort of open grate projecting a little into the
narrow side walk where often children and the
older ones sit on the window sill viewing and
sometimes conversing with those on the outside,
some of these courts are large and thousands of
of a variety of roses are very pretty with the
walks; bouquets of roses from those inside courts
were presented to me as a token of remembrance
of my 72nd birthday in Old Mexico; the day closes
with my 72nd behind, while my 73rd opens up
very pleasantly although in a strange land.
	With kind wishes and regards,
			EDWARD STEVENSON.
	P. S.—With this I send you a card speciman of
a Lamanite lady, there are in Mexico a variety of
them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK IN MEXICO.

	Colonia Juarez, Mexico,
		March 29, 1892.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since writing you I have had the privilege
of visiting all the wards in the Mexican Mis-
sion, and of meeting with the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary Associations and
found them all in excellent condition. There
are four of each of the above named societies
in the Mission.
	The scenery from Diaz to Juarez, some
seventy-five miles, is similar to that from Dem-
ing to Diaz, an open level country of vast ex-
tent with mountains and hills in the distance.
We can trace the windings of the Casas Grande
river by the lofty cottonwood trees growing on
its banks. We passed through the towns of
La Ascencion and Coralitos. The latter be-
longs to a mining and stock Co., who own a
large tract of land. Here was also the interior
guard of the Custom House. In the prin-
cipal street of Coralitos is a very fine avenue
of lofty cottonwood trees that make a cool
shade for summer. Here is also a store and a
carpet and cloth factory belonging to the com-
pany. There is a Concentrator used for the
separating of the metal from the rock. After
leaving Coralitos we passed through the ruins
of an old town called Boranka. There once
stood a church, grist mill, and quite a number
of houses. We now reach Colonia Dublan, a
settlement of our people, located on the banks
of the river. The houses are of lumber and
adobie. The farms slope from the road to the
river. A good sized adobe school house, nearly
completed, is being built which is a credit to
the settlement. Five or six miles from Dublan
is the town of Casas Grande (large houses)
named after some Montezuma ruins of large
houses, which still exist in the town.
	Colonia Juarez is situated in a canon on the
Piedras Verdie river, which is lined with trees
runs lengthwise through the town. It is a
thrifty, pretty little place, like an oasis in the
desert; a number of handsome brick and con-
crete houses adorn the town.
	They have a splendid school house consist-
ing of three large rooms, a handsome building.
There is also a good store and a grist mill.
Picket and lumber fences enclose orchards and
gardens. Trees are in full bloom, lucern and
grass are green. Every body is busy putting
in gardens, some have peas up two or three
inches high; the soil is sandy and all vegi-
tables grow in abundance. Some very good

[Column 2]

fruit was raised here last summer. It is
expected much more will be raised this
summer as the season is later than usual.
	Pacheco is thirty two miles southwest of
Juarez. The road through a canon is rich in
magnificent scenery. Would I could describe
it that my friends might enjoy it. Large
rugged rocks thrown together in every con-
ceivable shape towered above us in grand
majesty. Trees that appeared to grow out of
solid rock peeped out of the crevices. When
a child I wanted to see the timber that was
made into lumber, growing in the mountains
but never had the privilege until that day go-
ing to Pacheco, when we traveled for miles
through a very fine growth of timber. Pacheco
is surrounded by the pines that are always
green. The houses are made of lumber, it be-
ing plentiful in this country. They have a
comfortable school house, a saw mill and a
store. On Washington's birthday we had a
holiday. Quite a company of the good people
of Pacheco, and Cave Valley accompanied us
to the Caves, some seven miles from Pacheco
which we visited. We enjoyed our picnic
under the trees, by the river, in a lovely spot,
and spent an hour or so in songs, recitations,
music and speeches, and spent a day never to
be forgotten.
	The Caves are the works of nature but they
have been utilized by a race of people who
made rooms by putting partitions of a kind of
cement. The openings leading from one room
to another are very small indicating that small
people inhabited them. It was a curiosity to
us to see water drop, a drop at a time from the
top of the solid rock above us, at the mouth
of the cave, where it is presumed they retained
it for drinking, and household purposes. I
had many thoughts while exploring them and
gathering relics, wondering who the inhabi-
tants were, how long ago they lived there etc.
There are many dried corn cobs and pieces of
brown pottery to be found in them. I rejoiced
in having the privilege of visiting those
wonderful relics of the past.
	We returned to Juarez in time for the
Quarterly Conference of the Mexican Mission
which was held Feb. 27 and 28. We enjoyed
a most interesting time; the spirit of God was
felt in power to the encouragement and comfort
of the saints.
	A great many discouraging things are said
about the Mexican Mission but there are a
good, happy, contented people who are satisfied
to live here in spite of the disagreeable winds,
dust, and other features complained of. Come
and see us in this wonderful historic country,
you will receive a warm welcome and meet
many friends.
		M.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

	Sisters, do we realize the many privileges
that are coming within our reach for our im-
provement? Are we aware of how much will
be expected of us, for "where much is given
much is expected," (or required) and we shall
be expected to know something about the great
government under which we live, for there are
organizations being effected among us, and if
we make ourselves interested in the subject we
can learn something about the science of gov-
ernment and the position of citizens in this
great Republic, which will be much to our own
elevation and our influence will be felt in our
families and associations.
	Our government is said to be the best on
earth and I believe it is, but there are defects
in it. One very important one is that it does
not grant women any political privileges.
Think of the injustice of granting the slaves
and their wretched humanity from the slums
of the earth, freedom to the ballot, and it is
o nsidered a precious boon, and prohibiting


[Column 1]

men's wives, mothers, daughters, and sisters'
having any voice at all in matters they are
just as interested in and pertain to them just
as much as any.
	If governments derive their just powers from
the consent of those governed, what justice can
there be in withholding from a portion of the
intelligent citizens the right to give consent
when many of them are property owners and
earners and are required to pay the same per-
cent tax, which is taxation without representa-
tion, one of the main causes of the revolu-
tionary war. They also have to be amenable
to the laws, if they commit crime they have to
pay penalty but have no voice in making the
laws.
	There are great men and women at present,
who are making every effort possible to remedy
this evil in our government for it is surely
getting the nation in a dangerous condition. It
has caused the decay of other great nations
and it is time to guard against such a result,
and what we want is an amendment to the
Constitution of the U. S. putting women on
an equal with their husbands for it will elevate
them and thereby elevate the race.
	And now, we the women of Utah let us
lend them all the aid we can by informing
ourselves, understanding our position, and pro-
claiming the advantages of "Liberty to all,"
loud and long, wherever the opportunity is
afforded us, for liberty is dear, just as dear to
a mother as a father.
	I think the women of our Territory should
take hold of the suffrage question with zeal
and prepare ourselves to use our rights if they
are granted us, intelligently. There are a
class of men in our Territory who heartily
endorse the move taken in our favor, while
there are others who are narrow and say,
"they want their wives at home," simply
selfish. We know that home is a woman's
sphere and if she has a family her pride and
ambition is, and should be, to contribute every
thing that will tend to elevate the standard of
her home and the society in which she moves.
A home presided over by a virtuous, cleanly
and cheerful woman may be the scene of many
ennobling relations in life endeared to man by
many delightful associations; furnishing a
sweet resting place after labor, a comfort in
misfortune and a joy in prosperity.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself while His eye
watches her." This as a rule, I think, is true
and the argument used against it that "politics
are too dirty for women to dabble in," is weak,
for if politics are too dirty for women they are
too dirty for men and a reform is surely needed
and woman's influence is good.
	It is said that the first French revolution
presented one of the most striking illustrations
of the social mischiefs resulting from the
neglect of the purifying influence of woman.
The first Napoleon said, "The great want of
France is mothers." The character of the wo-
men had become depraved which is equal to
saying the race was depraved, and to correct
the evil the cause would have to be removed,
that means to educate and elevate the mothers.
	It is true we do not hear so much about
great women as great men. The greater part
of the influence exercised by woman in the
formation of character necessarily remains
unknown, they accomplish their best work in
the quiet seclusion of home, their greatest
triumphs, because private and domestic, are
rarely recorded, but she is not without her re-
ward, her influence lives and goes on propagat-
ing itself forever.
	However, let us wake up and labor with
interest for the great end in view, viz; perfect
education and elevation of woman to make her
a better companion for her husband, a better

[Column 2]

mother for his sons and daughters, and a better
laborer in society.
	May the difficulties be surmounted and
every effort be fruitful in good, to the enfran-
chisement of woman. There is no good argu-
ment against it. Statistics show, in places
where the right of suffrage has been granted to
women, fewer divorce cases, fewer insane, fewer
nmates of prisons and a better social condi-
tion entirely, proving that it does not break up
the peace of home nor degrade woman, and I
think that one great reason why some men do
not favor it is that,what causes the so called in-
fidel to not believe in the bible, because he
hasn't read it and does not know what is in it.
think if it is properly understood it will
meet a response in every heart.
		ANNIE E. WALDRON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LADY SOMERSET'S GOOD-BYE.

	Lady Henry Somerset says, in a pleasant
farewell letter to the Union Signal:
	It has been said that I am writing a book
concerning my impressions of America. Noth-
ing could be further from the truth. I found
it enough to breathe your air, to live your life,
to make myself a part of all I saw, without
aiming to enact the role of the typical Briton
on his travels. I came not to teach, but to
be taught.
	But, concerning my impressions, I may tell
you quite confidentially that the intelligence
and education of your wage-workers, the re-
markable acumen and versatile acquirements
of your women, the universality of the cold-
water dinner table, the freedom and courtesy
of the press, the progressive quality of men's
minds, so that they seem to take as a matter of
course that women are equals, the way in which
American men share with their wives the cares
of home and children, the independence of
young women in the general conduct of life,
and especially the pursuit of a vocation rather
than a husband—though not at all to the pre-
judice of their finding that husband—the good
comradeship between young men and women,
boys and girls; the almost universal sobriety
of women—these, with the boundless distances,
rapid transit, and the varied scenery, have im-
pressed me beyond any other characteristics of
this happy country of the Larger Hope.
	In some respects my own dear land excels
you, even in the particular that is your most
striking quality—progressive thought. I make
no plea for the superiority of our own govern-
ment, but I merely state that it has given us
far more rapid and accurate postal service, and
railways much less destructive to human life,
although they do not provide the comfort
and the luxury that I find in this country.
	The smoking car on your trains seems to be
a degradation. I have been obliged to pass
through it several times, and grieve to see that
card-playing is permitted—a thing strictly pro-
hibited on English railways. It is sad to see
how this demoralizing atmosphere has blinded
the occupants, so that the uncleanly floor and
the sickening air are not distasteful to them.
A stunted manhood must result from the na-
tional custom that this "black hole of Calcutta"
car illustrates.
	The fact that our telegraphic system is under
government control is of inestimable value to
our people. We can send twelve words for
twelve cents to any part of the United King-
dom. Our civil service, being wholly divorced
from politics, is in every way more satisfactory.
It is inconceivable to me that any people so
intelligent as the Americans should patiently
put up with changing every local postmaster
with every change of President. You are
ahead of us, however, in that your civil service
examinations are more widely open to women.
One of the differences between our countries

[Column 2]

which seems to me most in our favor, is the
far greater interest taken by English women
in politics, local and general. They under-
stand the questions of the day, and are by that
much better fitted to be the companions of their
husbands and sons. As a result of this do-
mestic aspect of political questions, men of
better class go into political life with us than
is, I judge, the case with you. In this there is
immense advantage to the well-being of the
country; and if I might make one suggestion
to those whose mode of life has been so el-
oquently suggestive to me, I would beseech
good women everywhere to give conscientious
study to these public questions in the mu-
nicipality, the State and the nation. For I
believe that, with the participation of women
in government, the good of the people (which
means the coming of Christ into the laws of
the nation) is inextricably blended. The
white-ribboners have served their country
beyond telling, by bringing these sacred ques- 
tions of human weal to the hearts and hearth-
stones of the people. It is my solemn con-
viction that with all this better understanding
as to the real mission of politics shall come
the greater and more Christian America for
which we hope and pray. Perhaps the Moth-
er Country may do you its greatest service by
proving that the participation of women in
government will be a surer solution of our so-
cial problems; for we are practically certain to
precede you in putting to a test on a large
scale the theories you have propounded. It is
well-nigh positive that within five years wo-
men will be as thoroughly enfranchised as men
throughout Great Britain.—Ex.


ECONOMY OF TIME.

	A very important lesson to be learned in life
is to economize our time. Some people value
their time as their estate, while others scarcely
learn its value, till it is too late. If habits of
carelessness and idleness are formed in youth,
they cannot be so easily thrown off as they are
formed. How necessary it is then in youth to
form habits that will be of benefit throughout
our lives. Lost knowledge may be regained
by study; lost health by temperance; but lost
time cannot be replaced. How often we hear
people say they would do this, or that, if they
"had time." Many who might be called selfish
excuse themselves from doing much, that
might be accomplished. Seek out those in any
community, who have done the most for them-
selves and helped no one in special, or tried to
soothe those in affliction, or seek to bless any
one, and you will find that they will be thought
an almost useless element in society. But on
the other hand a person who does all that he
or she can, for the general good of the people
you will find they are those who are always
active, and are always highly respected. This
class of people, no matter how pressed with
business, always seem capable of doing a little
	This class of people may ever be relied on
with more assurance than the idle class. It is
easier for one who is always doing something,
to do a little more, than for an idle person to
arouse himself to action. If you give a busy
person something extra to do they will soon
have it done; while an idle person will want
to put it off till tomorrow, or another time.
Too much leisure time proves a curse if we do
not make a proper use of it. A very good
motto is to try to build up what we can from
the fragments of time. It is said that the gold
dust is swept up from the floor and coined.
We should learn from this, the nobler economy
of time. Use all our spare moments in study,
something that will ennoble the mind. We
read of the greatest men of learning, how they
strove to improve their spare moments. Some
of them were so poor, that they had not oil to


make a light, and after their day's work was
done, they took their books and stood by a
lamp post, to see to read.
	The small stones used to fill up crevices in
the wall, are as essential as the larger rocks.
And so are the spare moments wisely used,
they contribute to the advancement of the mind
and all intellectual faculties.
		SARAH ANN HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


One of the sublimest things in the world is
plain truth.—Bulwer.
	Temptations are a file which rubs off much
of the rust of our self-confidence.—Fenelon. 
	Virtue alone outbids the pyramids; her mon-
uments shall last when Egypt's fall.—E.
Young.
	Loving kindness is greater than laws; and
the charities of life are more than all ceremo-
nies.—Talmud.
	Scratch the green rind of a sapling, or wan-
tonly twist it in the soil, and a scarred or crook-
ed oak will tell of the act for centuries to
come. So it is with the teachings of youth,
which make impressions on the mind and heart
that are to last through life.


WORLD'S FAIR NOTES.

	The women of Springfield and Sangamon
County, Ill., are planning to make an extensive
exhibit of Lincoln relics at the Fair.
	Prince George of Wales, who if he lives will
some day be King of England, will visit the
Exposition, a cablegram from London announc-
es.
	The World's Fair board of Santa Clara coun-
ty, Cal., has petitioned the supervisors for an
appropriation of $300 to defray the expenses
of making an exhibit from the Lick observa-
tory.
	Miss Alice Ridout, of San Francisco, has
been awarded the contract for sculptural work
 on the Woman's Building. She prepared the
designs some time ago. She will receive
$8,200.
	Mrs. Amy M. Beech, of Boston will prepare
an original musical composition to be rendered
at the dedication of the Woman's Building.
Theodore Thomas will conduct the present- 
ation and Prof. Tomlins will organize the
chorus of 400 voices.
	The Lady Managers are in communication
with Mrs. Humphrey Ward, requesting her to
loan the original manuscript of her novel,
"Robert Elsmere," for exhibition in the Wo-
man's Building. An effort is also being made
to secure the manuscript of "Ramona" from
the heirs of the author, Helen Hunt Jackson,
for exhibition in connection with the exhibit
of the Ramona Indian School of New Mexico,
now in process of arrangement.


[Column 1]

﻿OBITUARIES.

	At Kanosh Millard Co., Utah, Sister Char-
lotte Day, daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth
Skinner. "Born October 14th,1831,died March
15th, 1892. Sister Day embraced the Gospel
in South Africa, and emigrated here about
thirty-two years ago. She was among the first
settlers in this place and has been an active
member of the Relief Society here. She was
a very quiet woman and always willing to lend
a helping hand to the sick and needy.
		A. T.

[Column 2]

SARAH THORNTON COLEMAN.	
	Sister Sarah Thornton Coleman departed
this life March 1st, 1892, at 3,30 o'clock. She
was born at Little Paxton, Huntingtonshire,
England, June 11th, 1806; baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at
Honeydon, Bedfordshire, in June 1841.
	She was at Nauvoo at the time of the per-
secution of the Saints and emigrated to Utah
among the first settlers.
	Sister Coleman was president of the Relief
Society at Lehi for a number of years. She
lived a faithful saint to the end, and was
respected and loved by all who knew her. At
the time of her death she was aged 85 years, 8
months and 20 days. She had eight children,
seven of whom survive her, 68 grand-children
and about 105 great-grand-children to mourn
their loss. We hope our loss will be her gain.
		MRS. E. J. T.

	Died at her residence in Vernal, Uintah Co.,
of heart failure, Sarah, wife of Bradford Bird.
Sister Bird was born October 9, 1850, in Salt
Lake City. She was married to Bradford Bird
in December 1867. They moved to Ashley in
the fall of 1877, and in the following fall the
first Relief Society of this valley was organized
and she was selected as second counselor and
faithfully filled the office for six years, when
the Stake was divided into wards. In the
organization of the Relief Society in the ward
where they lived she was called to act as first
counselor which position she filled until the
disorganization in March 1888.
	Sister Bird had been for years the President
 of the Primary Association, and was greatly
beloved and respected by the children. She
performed a great labor among the sick and
suffering of her own sex and in preparing the
dead for burial. She was a woman that was
greatly respected by all with whom she was
brought in contact, was a firm Latter-day Saint,
and always bore a strong testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
		SADIE COLLETT.

	Death has again entered the fold and taken
from us our beloved sister, Jane Geither
Thomas, widow of the late Daniel Claybourne
Thomas. Our dearly beloved sister was
born in North Carolina on May 26th, 1824,
moved with her husband to Texas, where in
1847, she was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints. Came to Utah in
1850, lived for several years in Lehi, then in
Cedar Valley, then in Cache Valley, and for
over twenty-five years at Plain City, Weber
Co, where for many years she was treasurer
for the Relief Society; the duties of which place
she performed in the most faithful and satis-
factory manner until her death which occurred
here on Feb. 27th, 1892. She was a true
and faithful Latter-day Saint, a good neighbor
and a sincere friend. She leaves many loved
ones to mourn her loss. Two sons, one daugh-
ter and a host of grand children, unto whom
we the sisters of the Relief Society extend our
heart-felt sympathy in their sad bereavement.
Rest beloved sister rest in peace.
		ALMIRA RAYMOND, Pres.
		MARGARET SHOMAKER, Coun.
		RACHEL CARVER, Coun.
		M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec.


[COLUMN 1]

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
Will commence her Spring class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday May 9, 1892—at
her Office 18, S. Main St.

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.﻿

[COLUMN 2]

THE WOMAN’S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D.C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $l.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman’s Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

		THE
	Standard Gauge
		RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE. .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
	AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
	IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
	EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
	Free of Charge.
	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
	IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306. SALT EALK Cl Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of  the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

