VOL. 20		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1892.		NO. 22.


CONTENTS.

	Temperance—Phebe C. Young. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Wimodaughsis Letter—Ella M.
S. Marble. What Some Women Have Done.
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. W. S.
A. Reports. Woman's Voice—S. P. G. Nation-
alism—C. C. R. W. What to Teach Young Wo-
men—Rev. T. De Witt Talmage. Viavi Treat-
ment.
	EDITORIAL:—In and About San Francisco.
Editorial Note. A Delightful Gathering. Valu-
able Information Wanted—M. A. W.
	POETRY:—Gifts—Emma Lazarus. Dreaming—
Lucy. Reviewing the Past—L. M. H. May Day
—E. T.


GIFTS.

'O World-God, give me wealth!" the Egyptian cried.
	His prayer was granted; high as heaven, behold
Palace and pyramid; the brimming tide
	Of lavish Nile washed all his lands with gold.
Armies of slaves toiled ant-wise at his feet.
World-circling traffic roared through mart and street.
	His priests were gods, his spice-balmed kings enshrined,
Set death at naught in rock-ribbed channels deep.
	Seek Pharaoh's race today and ye shall find.

"O World-God give me beauty!" cried the Greek.
	His prayer was granted. All the earth became
Plastic and vocal to his sense; each peak,
	Each grove, each stream, quick with Promethean flame,
Peopled the world with imaged grace and light.
The lyre was his and his the breathing might
	Of the immortal marble, his the play
Of diamond-pointed  thought and golden tongue.
	Go seek the sunshine race, ye find today
A broken column and a lute unstrung.

"O World-God give me power!" the Roman cried.
	His prayer was granted; the world was chained
A captive to the chariot of his pride.
	The blood of myriad provinces was drained
To feed that fierce, insatiable red heart.
Invulnerably bulwarked every part
	With serried legions and with close-meshed code.
Within the burrowing worm had gnawed its home.
	A roofless ruin stands where once abode
The imperial race of everlasting Rome.

"O God-head give me truth!" the Hebrew cried.
	His prayer was answered. He became the slave
Of the idea, a pilgrim far and wide.
	Cursed, hated, spurned and scourged, with none to save.
The Pharaohs knew him, and when Greece beheld
His wisdom wore the heavy crown of eld.
	Beauty he hath forsworn, and wealth and power.
Seek him today and find in every land,
	No fire consumes him, neither floods devour,
Immortal through the lamp within his hand.
		EMMA LAZARUS.
	Ex.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	DREAMING.

		[Yet it is not all a dream.]
	I am dreaming, oh I'm dreaming,
		Of by gone sunny days,
	When a lover came to woo me
		With love's sweetest words of praise;
	Ah, those soft bewitching glances,
		They are beaming on me now,
	And the speaking eyes I fancy
		Still are telling love's young vow.


Those bright smiles of love's revealing,
	Have a charming magic gleam,
Passion's earnest voice is thrilling,—
	Ah, it is a happy dream!
A most brilliant, joyous dreaming,
	Fresh and pure as budding rose,
Fragrant incense borne from Eden,
	Solace sweet for cares and woes.
I am dreaming, I am dreaming,
	Of one brilliant Summer day
When with friends we took a ramble,
	Bidding them to lead the way.
But there seemed a reason mystic,
	Oblivious to define,
For the path they took we miss'd it—
	And sought not in haste to find.
So we talked of birds and flowers,
	Of the rocks, trees, flowing brooks,
And so quickly passed the hours,
	That no note of time we took.
On, on, over hills and valleys,
	Still straying we knew not where,
The sweetest flowers were gather'd
	Twined in wreaths most passing fair.
I am dreaming, surely dreaming,
	Of that bright glorious day,
How the stars came forth to greet us,
	As we turned our homeward way,
And I see an altar forming,
	Amid thoughts and dreams divine,
And I hear a voice calling,
	"Dear girl, you must be mine!"
All is pictured out before me,
	As bright meteors they gleam,
And the words, "I love, adore thee!"
	O, it is not all a dream!
Ah, how kindly to those  moments,
	My holiest thoughts reply,
In love's accents soft and tender,
	As balmiest zephyrs sigh.
With radiance pure and holy,
	Its light tinges every hue,
Would to heaven, after moments
	Had thus ever been as true!
O, break not the spell that binds me,
	Nor dispel this witching theme,
The glad light of love is round me,
	Yet it is not all a dream.
			LUCY.


[Column 1]

TEMPERANCE.

	The subject of temperance is one of great
importance to all, both old and young, because
it affects their well-being physically, mentally
and morally.
	"Let your moderation be known unto all
men," was the exhortation of the apostle Paul;
and there has never been a time in the world's
history when such an exhortation was more
needed than the present, because intemperance
in many things has become so common that it is
almost the author of all the evils from which
we suffer.
	Shall we speak of intemperance in dress?
How much better it would be for many if they
would in this respect study their health and
comfort instead of becoming slaves to the fool-
ish and oftentimes injurious customs of fashion.
	Then how much sin and sorrow is caused by
intemperance of speech. The apostle James
says the tongue is an unruly member, hard to
tame and sometimes set on fire of hell; and
truly when we hear men and boys swear and
take the name of the Lord in vain, when we
hear obscene and vulgar language on the streets,
we are compelled to acknowledge the truth of
these words. We should also be temperate in

[Column 2]

our passions and not allow angry feelings to
take possession of us. If we could only re-
member at all times that "a soft answer turneth
away wrath," and could also exercise sufficient
self-control to return a soft answer when angry
words are spoken; or, if we could do no better,
turn away until anger has had time to cool.
If this were always done how many fearful
crimes would be prevented, and how few
quarrels there would be, for we all know that
it is impossible for one to quarrel alone; and
oh! how often loving hearts are wounded by
unkind words, oftentimes thoughtlessly spoken,
but if they come from those we love, how deep
is the scar they leave! And there have been
instances where persons would have given all
they possessed if they could have recalled
words they had spoken in anger.
	There are many other things that might be
classed under the head of intemperance, but we
pass them by at the present to speak of that
bane of human health and happiness, the im-
moderate use of intoxicating drinks. This is
not only a great evil in itself, but leads to al-
most every other.
	I once read an old legend of a man who
was supposed to be perfect, and Satan, desiring
to obtain possession of him, obtained permission
to tempt him with three things, the least of
which was to get drunk. He being greatly
shocked at the magnitude of the first two crimes
presented to him, thought it would not be so
bad a thing to get drunk, and while in that
state committed both the other crimes, and so
the devil gained possession of him.
	We know that it would be impossible to
enumerate the evils that arise and the sin that
is committed through the use of intoxicating
drinks. Could we lift the curtain and look in
to those dens of iniquity where so many of the
youth are led astray, and take their first lessons
in vice; could we look into the homes that are
made desolate, and see the grief and tears that
intemperance has caused, I think it would be
enough to make our young men exclaim with
the wise man: "Wine is a mocker, strong drink
is raging; who so ever is deceived thereby is
not wise; at the last it biteth like an adder and
stingeth like a serpent."
	The question is asked by King Solomon,
"Who hath wo? Who hath contention? Who
hath babblings? Who hath sorrow? Who hath
wounds without cause? Who hath redness of 
eves?" And the answer is, "They who tarry long
at the wine cup," they that go to seek mixed
drink. How true this is, how many times do we
see the youth who was the pride of his father
and promised to be the comfort of his mother,
full of the strength and vigor of his young
manhood and yet how often are all these bright
hopes wrecked on the rock of intemperance and
the gray hairs of the parents brought down
with sorrow to the grave.
	We read in the 35th chapter of Jeremiah
an account of the children of a man by the
name of Rechab, who had promised their
father that they would drink neither wine nor
strong drink, they nor their sons nor their
daughters for ever, and the Prophet Jeremiah
was commanded to set pots of wine before them
to see if they would remain faithful to the
promise they had made, and they said, "we have
obeyed the voice of our father in all that
he charged us to drink no wine all our days, we
nor our wives, nor our sons, nor our daughters."
And because they were faithful to the covenant
hey had made the Lord was pleased with


them and made them a great promise that
though great calamities should fall upon the
wicked the house of Jonadab the son of
Rechab should not want a man to stand before
Him forever.
	The Latter-day Saints have especial teachings
on this matter. We have in the Word of Wis-
dom also a promise given in these last days
that if we will be temperate and abstain from
things that are hurtful, the destroying angel
will pass us by, and we shall obtain great
treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I think I
hear a young man say, "How shall I escape
from this great evil of intemperance, that has
become so prevalent that it assails us on every
hand?" By keeping out of the company of
those who would tempt us and whose ways
lead down to death.
	Said one of our great poets: "Vice is a mon-
ster of so frightful mein as to be hated, needs
but to be seen; but seen too oft, familiar with
its face, we first endure, then pity, then em-
brace." Thus we should shun the first ap-
proach of temptation and turn our backs upon
it; and we shall not only be rewarded with health
and length of days, but shall have gained the
greatest of all victories, a conquest over self.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIV.
	After the young ladies ascertained that Clair
could sing and play, was fond of sketching and
inclined to be literary in his tastes, they seemed
to forgive everything else and to consider him
one of the family. He helped them wonder-
fully in a way, not practically, but certainly
his tastes were elevating. He loved the ances-
tral home, and though he had been more than
contented in his own country, yet when he
found such grandeur and magnificence in the
place which was to be his inheritance in part,
he felt the pride of a great name and of honor-
able heritage, and his aspirations were noble,
and becoming his station; much more so than
those of his father, notwithstanding the ple-
beian blood that flowed in his veins from the
lineage of his mother.
	Lady Anna improved every day she passed
in the society of her brother. His ideas of
womanliness and of things in general, were of
the highest order, and his influence over those
around him tended towards advancement in
the highest cultivation. His cousin Anna had
never seen any one to compare with him in true
manliness, though in the best society he had
never mingled and scarce knew the customs
and manners of the class of people to which he
really belonged. He never cast any reflections
upon the name of his father, who had defraud-
ed him of his birthright as long as he lived
(and all because of a silly quarrel with his
mother); he seemed to be of a forgiving and
gentle nature, and through these beautiful and
estimable qualities he won friends and obtain-
ed influence, which gave him prestige wherever
he went, and made him a leader, although he
had not the haughty pride and bearing of an
English nobleman. His very simplicity gave
peculiar charm to his manner, that made him
more attractive than those who were accustom-
ed to the elegance and luxury of an aristocrat-
ic home.
	Lady Anna and her cousin soon found that
the elite of the neighborhood were anxious to
cultivate their acquaintance since Clair had
been introduced, for Mr. Burke, true to his
promise, came down a week after his abrupt
departure and informed the family and others
interested in the matter that Monsieur Clair-
ville was the son of Sir Edward Hilliard and
must be acknowledged as his father's rightful
heir, however reluctant the nobility might be
to receive him.
	The young girls were very glad to have such

[Column 2]

a chaperone; and even Miss Conway, staid and
practical as she was, loved to listen to his fine
voice, and never wearied of his songs or con-
versation. It was much better to have some
one to walk or ride or boat with them, and in
every place and under all circumstances, young
Clair seemed to fit in admirably. In time he
took in the whole situation of affairs, and with
wonderful tact managed to make himself use-
ful and needful to them all. Dr. Bland trust-
ed him with his attachment for Miss Conway,
and so did Maitland Walton, and as for his
sister and his cousin, he could read them al-
most perfectly. As he had no secrets of his
own, he was deeply interested in theirs, and
especially so in that of Dr. Bland and Miss
Conway, knowing how deep and intense must
be the devotion of such a man as the doctor.
It was not the love of a boy, but of a man of
mature years, whose affections could not have
been given lightly, and who had staked all
in the strength of this attachment.
	In numberless ways Clair helped the young
people; almost unconsciously he had the most
delicate perception of what was proper and
also of what would be agreeable, and his
plans nearly always succeeded admirably.
	Fishing and boating parties were his chief
delight for pastime, and the doctor was pas-
sionately fond of fishing. On the Hilliard
estate were fine ponds and brooks for these out-
of-door sports, and the young folks were not
slow in availing themselves of these opportun-
ities for out-door exercise. Such excursions
are always favorable for lovers and, now that
Clair knew Maitland Walton, he was generally
one of the party on all such occasions.
	At last Lady Walton consented to be intro-
duced to Clair; she had refused repeatedly, and
it was hard for these young folks to comprehend
why. Jane Conway knew well enough that it
was on account of an old-time fondness for Sir
Edward, but whoever, unless in the secret, could
be made to believe that a lady so refined, deli-
cate and sensitive as Lady Walton could ever
have been in love with such a man, or cherish-
ed through all these years a memory of the past,
that could not be stifled sufficiently to allow
friendly intercourse with his relatives. "To
think"—Lady Walton had said on one occasion
to an intimate friend, "to think that while we all
thought Sir Edward a single man, he had a
wife and child abroad. I can scarcely believe
it is not a hideous nightmare from which I
shall soon awaken to find it a dream."
	Mrs. Walton's pride was wounded, her inter-
view with Sir Edward had been very flattering;
to think through all the long years he had not
forgotten her; if her married life had been un-
happy, she could never have risen above temp-
tation, but she had recieved admiration and
attention almost amounting to adulation; and
it had been a sort of balm to her disappoint-
ment. Now she felt she never could mingle
more in the society to which she had been ac-
customed and where could she look for relief
from ennui! She was not a woman with
sufficient mental vigor to inspire a son like
Maitland to any high pursuit, or lofty ambition,
and his father simply allowed him to do as he
pleased.
	When Maitland learned that Lady Anna had
not been forbidden by her father's will to
marry him, he felt encouraged; he had not
much fear of his father's interference, as he had
no idea of the cause of estrangement between
the families. Lady Walton, Miss Conway,
and now Dr. Bland were the only ones who
knew the history. Miss Conway realized deep-
ly the peculiar embarrassment Lady Walton
would feel when it was positively known that
Clairville was the son of Sir Edward, but she
had supposed her capable of greater sacrifices
of feeling than she seemed prepared to under-
take. Miss Conway wondered in her own
mind if there were no other women in the

[Column 3]

world like herself, ready to sacrifice self for
the sake of others, good and happiness.
	Time passed, and young Clair grew every
day more familiar with the scenes among which
his future life was to be spent; and every one
connected with the household seemed attracted
to him, though evidently wishing to keep him
at a distance. He took them by storm irresist-
ably and they looked up to him, as they
had never done to his father, notwithstanding
their belief that gipsy blood flowed in his veins.
Lady Anna depended upon him for amusement,
as well as for an escort, and ere long confided
to him her heart's secrets. His tenderness for
her was like that one feels for a child, and he
determined she should not be thwarted in her
desires.
	"Do you not know Lady Walton?" he in-
quired one day when they were talking con-
fidentially upon the matter. "No, I have only
seen her once when she called on us after the
funeral, and she is so stately and grand, in
appearance, and I know so little of society, I
dare not venture to talk to her of Maitland;
he must do that himself," replied Anna. "But,"
interrupted her brother, "he does not seem to
have much success, and meantime the suspense
is preying upon your mind; let me see this
superb aristocratic fine lady. I will try to
bring about an understanding that will be per-
manent." And so it was agreed after some con-
sultation that if cousin Jane would consent,
Clair should seek an interview with Lady
Walton. Lady Anna was not so sanguine
as Clair himself appeared to be, both of them
knew so little of such matters, and it was
dangerous ground to venture on, yet unsophis-
ticated in the realities of these things they did
not hesitate as wiser and more cautious people
would have done. Before an hour had passed
Jane had been informed of the decision, and
contrary to her usual caution, had said to Clair,
"Go and try to obtain an interview, make some
excuse in regard to the estate, and you may
see her alone. I wish you success though in
such a hazardous enterprise." The fact was
Miss Conway felt it would be a relief to as-
certain more of Lady Walton's real feelings on
the subject and was willing to risk Clair's
visit thinking it could be no worse than waiting
to know all. Dr. Bland had spoken out
plainly and told her what her duty was, and
now perhaps Clair would learn whether she
had followed the Doctor's advice. The same
afternoon, mounted on one of the finest horses
about the place, and looking like a true court-
ier, Clair rode away watched by the admiring
eyes of the two young ladies, who felt he must
win the heart of Lady Walton, inexorable as
she might be, and so it proved.
	When Clair arrived at the entrance of the
grounds leading to Walton Hall the lodgekeeper
surveyed him from head to foot curiously,horse
and all, and then as he dismounted inquired,
"what can I render ye'se? in blunt English.
Clair addressed him in the most suave man-
ner with, "I have a message to Lady Walton
and must see her." "I can see ye'ze a foreign-
er; go up to the lane that winds between the
great elms and ye'll see the porter just there,
your face'll be yer passport." Thus directed
Clair wended his way along the pathway to-
wards the mansion, his only misgiving being
that he had no idea of the proprieties or maniere
usual on such occasions. A surly porter in
the doorway accosted him with, "Your name,
young man, and who do you wish to see, his
Lordship or the young master?" "Neither sir,
my business is with Lady Walton and it is
most important." "Be seated then, and I will
take your message to her valet." Very soon a
Frenchman with a pompous air appeared and
Clair, who spoke the language perfectly,
told his errand in the tongue most familiar to
him, which impressed him much more favor-
ably than if he had spoken in English. The


valet disappeared and in a moment returned
and ushered him into the library. Lady Wal-
ton with all the courage she could command
and querying who the stranger could be, intro-
duced herself by saying, “I understand you
have an important message for me, but having
observed the likeness to Sir Edward, turned
pale as death and added, “your name, young
man, you have not given it?” “I am Monsieur
Clairville Hilliard;” the last name came re-
luctantly. “I thought so,” replied the lady;
“and pray what can be your business with me?”
She shook with fear lest Sir Edward had sent
a message from his deathbed, and yet she had
heard that the Baronet had never acknowl-
edged him. It was not so easy to explain his
errand as Clair had fancied, he had never be-
fore seen such a magnificent, queenly woman,
and his manner was so timid and hesitating as
to cause anxiety on the lady’s part. She
helped him by saying, “What news do you
bring from the young ladies at the castle? Are
they well, and enjoying the fine Spring
weather?” Thus encouraged Clair found voice
to say, “Lady Anna is not well and I have paid
this visit solely on her account, and I beg you
to listen to me, and to promise me you will see
her and have some proper understanding of an
affair that seems now to become more and more
distressingly complicated.”
	“Your ardor in her behalf speaks well for
your affection as a brother, but might possibly
be misinterpreted.” “How could that be. It is
because of my sympathy for her melancholy
condition that I have come to you;surely there
can be no wrong motive attached to that?”
Clair was not skilled in the world’s methods
and it never occurred to his ingenuous soul
that people might think him anxious to get
her married that the estate might not be en-
cumbered to him she was the perfection of
beauty and delicacy, and his heart went out in
love and tenderness to her the first time they
met. He was deeply wounded by Lady
Walton’s insinuation, and felt to resent it, yet
knew not what to say,an therefore waited un-
til she resumed the conversation.
	‘‘Are you aware that Dr. Bland came here
on the same errand to teach me my duty, and
now this young woman is desperate enough to
send another messenger to question me. Surely
this is very impolite to openly avow her senti-
ments, and not the manner of girls of gentle
blood.”
	“My sister never sent any one to plead her
cause, she is too pure to cherish any but the
most sacred, womanly feelings. Your son has
won her heart and it is breaking because of
your cruelty.” And he strode out of the room
indignantly, the hot blood mounting to his
cheek as it had never done before since his
boyhood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			REVIEWING THE PAST.

	I have walked thro' the dust of ages,
		Half a century and more,
	With memory turning its pages,
		Reviewing its records o’er, 
	By the aid of her magic lanterns,
		Were retraced as erst of yore,
	’Till I stood once more in the dawning,  
		On the threshold of life’s door;
	When clouds from the years had rolled backward,
		Dusts from the long line effaced,
	I beheld in marvelous beauty 
		Wisdom and power of grace;
	I saw how His love had upheld me,
		All thro’ years that have fled,
	Over paths beset with temptation, 
		By heedless desire oft led.
	Oppressed by dread spirits of evil,
		Shadows of night coming on,
	A sweet voice called out to my grieving,
		"Wandering, weary one, come!"


From weird, troubled masses of darkness,
		Dispersing shadows of night,
	The voice of the Risen One brought me
		Out into marvelous light.
										L. M. H


MAY DAY.
        
It has rained all through the dark long hours,
An incessant pour, not in fitful showers,
Beneath the dripping lintel come no sunny gleams
With a promise that the day might fulfill the dreams
Of a happy, happy May day with the sunlight's beams.

I stand within the shelter’d porch
	Safe from dripping eaves,
Watching the sparkling rain-drops
	Falling on grass and leaves;
All across the meadows are little pools a-glimmering;
And adown the lane are little rivulets simmering;
A tiny birdling plumes itself within a sheltered nook,
And two shining black birds hop close with daring look;
The watch dog shivering near me gives a piteous whine;
Anon the blatant call of hungry calf, and low of waiting
	kine,
All add to the dreariness of this dripping, rainy day;
Forsooth ’tis dreary dreariness on this the first of May.

Tho' to the sodden meadow and the new-plowed field
The rain brings a promise of a heavy harvest yield—
To me it brings a sadness, for just the day before,
I had given promise the meadows to wander o'er.
The children in their rambles had found some blossoms
white,

Just above the duck pond, so mother must see the sight;—
They thought that on the Mayday
We all would have a gay day;
Dear hearts, they have not learned,
That happiness hard earned,
				Is not secure;
And that pleasures come through pain,
And that losses without gain
				We must endure.

And 'tis the Lord's day, and one of fasting and of praise
To Him that rules the Universe for sending better days.
But now this steady rain fall, we shall not be there I ween,
With the faithful worshipers, for there’s dreary miles be-
		tween.

The mountains towering white
	Are by the storm clouds kissed, 
Even the low hills near us
	Are hid by the rain-fall's mist;
There is no hope 'midst the dreariness
	That the sun will shine today;
When hark ! around and above us
	Trills the mead-lark’s bonny lay.
I know, though there is no break in the clouds, 
	The sky will soon be seen,
And through the rain's unceasing patter,
	I can see a different scene.
		*	*	*		*	*	*
True to the cheery bird’s promise,
	The clouds ere long drift apart;
But the mists still cling to the valley,
	Hugged close to the damp earth's heart;
Like the love of a mother for a wayward child.
	Holding it close in a loving caress,
Hoping and trusting for future good,
	Though often times chilled by its wilfulness.

But the warmth of Mayday Spring time,
	Scattered the silvery sheen;
And the glow of a waning sunlight,
	Tinged valleys and hills of green.

Though the day began with sadness,
Hope brought smiles and gladness,
Perhaps the dewy blossoms, should they grow another day.
Will increase in beauty for another day in May. 
										E.T.


No man or woman of the humblest sort can
really be strong, gentle, pure, and good with-
out the world's being better for it, without
somebody's being helped and comforted by the
very existence of that goodness.


WIMODAUGHSIS LETTER.

	Washington is pre-eminently a city of wo-
men’s clubs. Here was first organized and
established the Woman’s National Press As-
sociation, of which Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood is
president.
	Mrs Lockwood is commissioner at large up-
on the Board of Lady Managers for the Colum-
bian Exposition, and was recently appointed
chairman of the Press Committee by Mrs. Pot-
ter Palmer. She has just been elected for the
second time Historian of the “Daughters of
the American Revolution,” of which Mrs.
Harrison is President. Her recently published
work, “Historic Homes of Washington,” is a
wonderful volume, filled with most thrilling
historic facts never before published. This,
with her earlier published works, has given her
an enviable standing as a talented, versatile
woman, and the Press women are naturally
proud of their leader.
	This club meets regularly for the discussion
and study of literary work. Short paragraphs
on pertinent topics are frequently a part of the
evening’s program. These are afterwards
edited by some members of the club, and pub-
lished in Washington papers. This organ-
ization is not composed of newspaper reporters,
who flock to this city during “the season,” but
almost entirely of women, who are editors of
papers, authors of books, regular contributors
to newspapers and magazines, and all-around
writers.
	Lectures by prominent men and women are
frequently given, and a series of journalistic
talks by eminent journalists is a part of the
writer's plan. Literary women all over the
United States are cordially welcomed to mem-
bership upon the presentation of their name,
endorsed by two members of the society, the
payment of $1.00 and the submission of several
specimens of their literary work to the Cre-
dential Committee.
	Pro Re Nata is another and exceedingly
interesting club, composed entirely of women,
and organized for the study of Parliamentary
Law and extempore speaking. At some future
date I will give an account of its work, but
space forbids a detailed account now.
	The District Suffrage Association is a live
organization and its objects need not be
specified. The Queen Isabelle Associational-
so conveys its mission in its name.
	The Woman’s Anthropological Association
is banded together for the study of the science
which treats of the physical and intellectual
properties of man,—in a word—“human
physiology.”
	The Woman’s Collegiate Alumnae brings
together the college graduates and is in it-
self “a feast of reason.”
	But it remains for “Wimodaughsis” to bring
together “all classes and conditions of wo-
men,” and furnish them headquarters where
women can meet socially, educationally, for
business, or in clubs, where strangers and
friends may come for information in every
branch of women’s work, where a library is
gathering together women’s books, papers and
magazines, and where the pictures and busts
of those prominent in the history of reform
may be preserved.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw, the eloquent and
popular lecturer, is its president, and its earn-
est officers and members are doing all in their
power to dispose of the 40,000 shares of stock
which it is incorporated to sell at $5.00 a share,
thus enabling the women of the United States
to own National Headquarters.
				ELLA M. S. MARBLE,
						Financial Agent.
—Womankind.


If you want to feel right, do right.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1892.


﻿IN AND ABOUT SAN FRANCISCO.

	The National Editorial Association party ar-
rived in San Francisco Monday, May 23, accord-
ing to the programme published before starting
West on the excursion. Tuesday morning at
nine o’clock, nearly all the N. E. A. party with
a number of distinguished Californians went out
upon the bay in the steamer Ukiah. The ex-
cursion was arranged by the Examiner to give
the visitors an idea of the advantages of this great
City of the Pacific Coast. The boat put out from
the Tiburon ferry landing, Gov. Markham and
staff, Mr. and Mrs. George W. Childs, the Earl
and Countess of Meath, Dr. Alice B. Stockham
(who has just returned from a visit to Japan),
Examiner representatives, and other residents
of the City, among these were Mrs. Nellie B.
Eyster, President of the Pacific Coast Woman’s
Press Association, also of the active Committees
of that Association Miss Minna V. Lewis, Mrs.
Alice Carry Waterman and others. Miss Louise
E. Francis, editor and proprietor of the Castro-
ville Enterprise, the official organ of the P. C. W.
P. A. is quite young to manage and
edit a paper herself; she began at seventeen as a
contributor to the Santa Clara Valley, and was
afterwards connected with the San Jose Mercury;
she began as editor in Monterey, but soon moved
her paper to Castroville. Miss Mary Allen West,
editor of the Union Signal, is one of the dele-
gates of the Illinois Press Association; she is in-
tensely interested in the work of the W. C. T. U.
and is one of its ablest and most efficient champ-
ion s and organizers.
	On Monday evening a reception was tendered
her by the W. C. T. U. of San Francisco at the
headquarters of their Union, which was quite a
success. The handsome double parlors were
beautifully decorated with the most lovely flowers
of the season and trailing vines, the fragrance of
the roses and lilies filled the rooms. Mrs.Spencer,
the Cor. Sec. of the W. C. T. U., introduced most
of the guests, ladies and gentlemen, to Miss West
and others. Quite a number of the delegates
from the N. E. A. came in during the evening
though seemingly much fatigued with the journey.
Later in the evening Miss West responded to the
wishes of the Committee, in a brief address, giv-
ing a sort of sketch of the Temperance work in
foreign countries, more particularly mentioning
the Hawaiian Queen as having allied herself with
the work, and banishing from her table and en-
tertainments not only the wine and liquors but
disallowing the immodest dancing which had
formerly been one of the pleasures indulged in
and looked upon with favor by the late King and
court. She also referred to the work in South
Africa and the promise it gave of good results.
Mrs. Peak, President of the State W. C. T. U.,
made a few remarks upon the State work, and
Mrs. Skelton (a German lady) who had been

[Column 2]
traveling for some time, speaking generally three
times a day, spoke in a humorous vein. She was
introduced by some one with the comment, “the
woman who is never too tired to talk.” Mrs.
Nellie B. Eyster was the next speaker, afterwards
Miss Will, of Chicago, who is interested in the
Alliance work, and last on the impromptu pro-
gramme there was a recitation by Miss Mansfield
(a child about thirteen), “The Demon of Fire,”
illustrating the fiendish work of intemperance in
a very impressive manner.
	Dainty refreshments were served and after
more exchanges of welcomes and congratulations
the guests went their way, pleased with the
cordial greetings of those who had arranged this
happy meeting of people from a distance.
	This afternoon there is to be a reception for Dr.
Alice B. Stockham of Chicago and her daughter
Miss Cora Stockham, at the Palace Hotel, of
which we expect to give some particulars in a
later article. 
	This evening the N. E. A. Convention proper
will open in the Metropolitan Temple, when the
real work of the delegates will begin. As yet
one is not able to ascertain exactly what the
routine will be, the Press Association here being
as much at sea in regard to it as those else-
where.
	The programme for the Convention as thus far
arranged is as follows: Address, ex-President
E. W. Stephens. Address, Superintendent
Porter of the U. S. Census Bureau. Poem, Miss
Anna Cooper. “A non political View of the
Press in Relation to the Negro,” Colonel T.
Sambala Jones of Louisiana. “Cheapening our
Wares,” Hon. Matt. Parrott. “Electricity in the
Pressroom,” J. O. Moses. “Women in Journal-
ism,” Mrs. Sallie M. Moses. “The County Paper
from a Financial Standpoint,” W. H. Burrell.
‘‘Which Makes our Presidents, the Stump Orator
or the Newspaper?” R. M. Banks. Other topics
on which addresses will be delivered or papers
read are: “Circulation of Daily Papers in Interior
Towns and Cities.” “The Relative Influence of
the Metropolitan and Interior Newspapers.”
“The Home Weekly as an Educator,” “The
Practical Pressroom.” ,
	San Francisco, May 23, 1892.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	The statement in one of the Utah papers that
Miss Josephine Kellogg of Provo was the first
woman lawyer of this Territory admitted to
practice at the bar is not correct; years ago Miss
Georgianna Snow, daughter of Judge Z. Snow,
and now Mrs. Carleton, was admitted to the bar in
Salt Lake City, and there are we believe two other
young women who have graduated in the study of
law and been employed in the offices of their
fathers. One young lady, Miss Lee, it is expected
will soon apply for admission to the bar, if she
has not already done so, and if we are reliably
informed there are one or two in Eastern colleges
preparing for graduation in that science. The
well-known lawyer Miss Phebe Cousins was
also admitted to the bar here in Utah some years
ago.


A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	Tuesday evening, the 10th ult., the young ladies
of the Seventh Ward Y. L. M. I. A. held their
annual meeting in the ward meeting house, in
this City. The decorations were very artistic
and beautiful and the perfume of the apple
blossoms which had been used made the air
fragrant as a summer bower. There were many
lovely plants in blossom on the platform, and
elegant vases of a variety of flowers were ar-
ranged so ingeniously as to produce the most
charming effect.


The fair faces of the young women made the
picture the hall presented more interesting still,
and the programme was of special interest and
particularly well rendered.
	The President, Miss Sarah Eddington, was
absent, but her first Counselor, Miss Rose,
presided, assisted by the other Counselor, Mrs.
Carrrie S. Thomas. The meeting opened with
singing and prayer as usual, and at the roll call
each member answered to her name with an
original sentiment.
	First exercise was a letter from the President,
and then came the subject “Woman in all her Re-
lations," in four papers which were very ably
written and carefully read. First, “Daughter” by
Miss Rose Wallace; Second, “Sister” Miss Kate
Thomas; Third, “Wife,” Mrs. Alice Moyle;
Fourth, “Mother,” Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas. An
original poem by one of the members was then
read by Miss Alice McLachaln, the secretary; the
hymn, “O, my Father," was sung by the young
ladies and was followed by brief speeches from the
visitors present. Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall of the
Central Board was the first speaker; her remarks
were spirited and well-chosen and calculated to
inspire the young girls to noble efforts in the right
direction. Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor of the Stake
Board spoke feelingly especially of the subject
mother,that had been presented. The other sisters
who each occupied a few moments were E. B.
Wells, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The congregation sang “The
Spirit of God," and Bishop Wm. Thorne pro-
nounced the benediction. It was certainly one
of the most interesting meetings of the Y. L. M.
I. A. we have ever had the pleasure of attending;
it is very gratifying to see the improvement being
made by our young people in spiritual things.
	After the meeting was dismissed the company
all remained to partake of refreshments and join
in social converse. The time passed swiftly, the
young ladies favoring the company with some
sweet old songs, and after an hour or so we very
reluctantly bade good night. These social re-
unions bring us into communion with each other
in a way that promotes harmony and is produc-
tive of great good.


VALUABLE INFORMATION WANTED.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I desire through the medium of your valuable
paper to gain some information that I very much
wish to have. I am preparing a record of those
who died while crossing the plains—from 1847 up
to the time of the building of the railroad—and
in order to have this complete I need to com-
municate with my sisters and friends throughout
the length and breadth of the Territory, for I
would that not one name, of those dear faithful
ones, should be left out or found missing from our
list, as I know they will not be from the Angels'
record.
	Therefore dear sisters and friends, readers of the
EXPONENT, I ask you individually to please send
me what information you may have in your pos-
session regarding this matter, for soon all personal
knowledge will pass into oblivion, and history
alone can tell the story.
	Others may write of the present, but unto me it
is given to labor for the dead, that blessed host
who have kept the faith, and whose works will fol-
low them.

	"And should we die before our journey's through,
			Happy day, all is well;
	We then are free from toil and labor too,
			With the just we shall dwell."

	It is in their behalf that I make this request and
I trust to have a prompt response, that I may be
able to accomplish all that is in my heart to do in
regard to this work, and I will endeavor to report


my progress from time to time until the work is
completed.
	I should like the date of birth and death, the
place of birth, and as near as possible the place of
burial, which side of the road, the north or the
south, the cause of the death, the company they
were in, the captain's name, and any incidents of
the journey that may be remembered.
	I would also like a similar report of all those
who died after leaving Nauvoo and while crossing
the State of Iowa up to Winter Quarters.
	And not forgetting those who slumber in the
bosom of the ocean, there to rest until the sea
gives up its dead—let all their names be enrolled
with those whose feet are established in the tops
of the mountains, who are still toiling to win the
goal that they have reached.
	It has been suggested that this would be a good
opportunity to also collect the names and dates of
the births that occurred on these memorable
journeys and see how many are still living and
are residents of Utah.
	And,dear Pilgrims of former days, when you are
searching in the archives of your memory no
doubt many and varied scenes will arise in your
minds,but I trust that with me, in your hearts you
can swell the chorus, "All is well; all is well,"
with Zion.
	All communications on the above subjects ad-
dressed to M. A. Winters, Pleasant Grove, Utah
County, Utah, will find a welcome greeting.
								M. A. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WHAT SOME WOMEN HAVE DONE

	[Read at Miss Anthony's Birthday Party in
this City.]
	That a new and in some respects a distinct
era has dawned for woman, the world at large
is beginning to admit,—but that there is any
precedent for such a state of things few will ac-
knowledge; yet are we forced to the conviction
when we look backward;—that such conditions
were not general in the strict sense of the term
is well understood,—but the exception proves
the rule—and as this is the age when all things
are to be restored, woman too will be accorded
her proportion in the great drama of the
world.
	The subject I have undertaken, that of wo-
man's work, or what some women have done,
is so vast that I can only present a few facts.
I will not take you back to Eve,or to Deborah,
nor to any of the scripture women, you know
their record; doubtless you are all familiar
too with the history of Zenobia, Queen of
Palmyra, which tells us not only that she was
beautiful and pure, but was also remarkable
for her great courage, high spirit, and literary
acquirements, and spoke Latin, Greek and the
Oriental languages with fluency, and that in
the administration of government she com-
bined prudence, justice and liberality, so that
all the eastern provinces submitted to her
sway.
	It is a matter of history that 320 years B. C.
Martia, Queen of London, first promulgated
the principles of the English Common Law in
her judgments and enactments. Her Martian
Statutes or Code outlived the Roman, Anglo-
Saxon and Norse invasions, and we have it on
good authority that Alfred the Great revived
her Briton laws and enforced them among
Anglo-Saxons and Danes.
	Two centuries later they were re-enacted
under Edward the Confessor, and a century
after again by Stephen—therefore the earliest
laws of Great Britain which in substance have
been in force 2,200 years, were made by a wo-
man. Tacitus says of the Britons that sex
was ignored in their government. Cæsar says
that women had a voice in their councils and
power in their courts, and often commanded in

[Column 2]

war. Plutarch says that women among the
Britons took part in deciding on war and
peace, as members of the councils, and that
differences with their allies were decided by
the women. The Domesday book, compiled
under William the Conqueror, in 1070—
enumerated the inhabitants of each village who
were entitled by existing Saxon law to vote
for local officers, and included many women.
Women were chosen members of many Saxon
local assemblies and shared in authority.
	When the Barons wrested Magna Charta
from King John, one of the rights for which
they contended and forced him to grant was
the right of women to a vote in the House of
Lords. He was compelled to summon to that
House all earls, barons, and others who held
lands directly from the King, and he sum-
moned to the very first Parliament the Count-
esses of Pembroke and Essex. In the reign
of Edward I. ten ladies were summoned, en-
titled to seats. There is proof that during the
first three reigns after the existence of Magna
Charta women had a right to a voice in the
English government and exercised it.
	John Stuart Mill said "the list of women
who have been eminent rulers of mankind
swells to a great length when to queens and
empresses are added women regents and wo-
men viceroys of provinces." "It is a curious
consideration," he continues, "that the only
things which the existing laws exclude women
from doing, are the things which they have
proved they are able to do. That women are
not fit for power and cannot take part in civil
government seems to be the cunningly devised
law of men, and has created public sentiment
as the bulwark of the law; and yet it is a fact
that we have as examples, Queen Elizabeth,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa,
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria and
in our day the good Queen and Empress
Victoria. To tell in brief what good any one
of these great women has accomplished would
be to fill a volume."
	Women have been distinguished for learn-
ing too in the far distant past, though it must
have gone out of fashion in part, as we are all
aware.
	We know of eminent women in many
countries here and there in the days preceding
the era of our civilization who came into pos-
session of privileges and power; some of their
histories are delightful. For instance Aspasia,
who taught Socrates, is said to have been his
preceptress, the wife of the great Pericles of
Atheus, and the friend of the Greek philoso-
phers; when summoned for trial before the
Greek Areopagus she was charged with
"walking the streets unveiled, sitting at table
with men, disbelieving in the Greek gods, be-
lieving in one sole Creator, and with entertain-
ing original ideas concerning the motions of
the sun and moon." Aspasia was far in ad-
vance of her time, and her contemporaries
could not understand her.
	Hypatia (born between 370 and 380—died
415,) whose pathetic story we read, was another
exceptionally learned woman. Her father was
at the head of the Platonic school at Alex-
andria at the close of the fourth century, the
commentator on Ptolemy and the editor of
Euclid, adding to it here and there a demon-
stration of his own. He imparted to his daughter
all that he knew, and history does not tell us
that she was not capable of acquiring knowl-
edge, or that her brain was inferior to her
father's, but on the contrary Socrates, who was
her enemy, tells us that when she suceeeded
her father in the Platonic school and "ex-
pounded the precepts of philosophy" (in both
Alexandria and Athens) studious persons from
all parts of the country flocked to hear her,
and that she addressed both them and the
magistrates with singular modesty.
	Before she was 27 years of age, she had

[Column 3]

written a book on The Astronomical Canon of
Diophantes and another on The Conics of
Apollonius. Because she was suspected of
having an influence in public affairs, and was
deemed worthy to sit in the councils of Church
and State, she was brutally murdered by a
savage mob, who thought superiority in wo-
man an arraignment of inferiority in man.
	And yet there have ever been some noble-
minded men who were willing to admit wo-
man's equality. In the 16th century there were
books written upon these subjects by men
giving to women in some instances superiority
and also other vigorous writers of the day who
denied to women reason, and considered they
only excelled in iniquity.
	Aristotle and others of his school called
woman "a monster," an "accidental produc-
tion." The Hebrews pronounced her "an
afterthought of the Deity, and the mother of
all evil."
	When the councils of the Medieval church
came together to decide on the instruction
needful to the young, they hastened to count
women out and to declare them unfit for in-
struction, and kind-hearted nuns of the
Catholic church, who in defiance of this de-
cision established schools for girls, were pub-
licly stoned when they were met on the streets.
The early Christian fathers denounced women
as "noxious animals," "painted temptresses,"
"necessary evils," "desirable calamities" and
"domestic perils."
	From the English Heptarchy to the Refor-
mation the law proclaimed the wife to be in
all cases and under all circumstances, "her
husband's creature, servant and slave." Her-
bert Spencer, writing of English laws in his
Sociology says, "Our laws are based on the
all-sufficiency of man's rights, so that society
exists today for woman only as she is in the
keeping of some man." Daniel Defoe in 1696
declared his belief that if men were trained in
the same deplorable ignorance as women they
would be vastly more incompetent and de-
graded.
	In the 15th century there was a marked
tendency to recognize women 'on an equality
with men. In 1697—Mary Astell wrote a
letter in defense of the female sex which
passed through three editions; the same lady also
wrote, "A Proposal to Ladies for the advance-
ment of their true interests." It so wrought
on Lady Elizabeth Hastings,a very wealthy wo-
man of the nobility, that she immediately
offered ten thousand pounds for the establish-
ment of a college for women. At the time
Italy led all other nations in activity, and
was remarkable for her pride in learned wo-
men. Lucrezia Morinello of Venice wrote a
work entitled "The Nobleness and Excellence
of Women with the Faults and Imperfections
of Men;" these were some of the opening
wedges that paved the way for further ad-
vancement."
	The university of Bologna, which admitted
women as students and conferred upon them
degrees as early as the 13th century, elevated
them to professorships, taught them law,
philosophy, and anatomy.
	To the Roman civilization we owe a wonder-
ful development of law. The Roman code of
laws is today the basis of the jurisprudence of
the civilized world. We have only very little
of the survival of the Greek and Roman civili-
zation come down to us. The phenomenal
dark ages set in, and for a thousand years after
the life of the "Eternal City" was crushed out,
the world groped in ignorance and darkness,
and very little progress was made in any direc-
tion.
	Four great events of world-wide importance,
each following its predecessor, caused the
divine in man to assert itself, and there came
into the world a quickening spirit.
	These events have been mentioned as occur-


ring almost simultaneously—the revival of
classical learning, the invention of the art of
printing, the discovery of this continent and
the Reformation begun by Luther. During
the Elizabethan era the great ideas were born
which underlie our present civilization. With
the history of American independence we are
all more familiar,but the condition of women
in this country has been after all one long
struggle for education,opportunity and political
equality.
	In the early colonial days, provision was
made for boys’ schools, and Harvard College
was established; but girls were not included in
any of these privileges, and even in Massa-
chusetts, which boas s perhaps more than any
other state of its educational advantages, and
where the Pilgrims first landed, the town of
Northampton, now a famous seat of learning,
voted in 1788 “not to be at any expense for
schooling girls.”
	Later, in the town of Hatfield, an influential
citizen whose children were girls, appealed in
town-meeting for the privilege of sending them
to the public school which he helped to support
by his taxes. An indignant fellow townsman
sprang to his feet and exclaimed, “Hatfield
school she’s! never!” Yet it was Miss Smith of
Hatfield, one of the sex and probably one of
the girls contemptuously denied a common
school education, who afterwards founded and
endowed at Northampton a college for girls.
There was a bitter prejudice against educated
and literary women in the early days of our
American history, strange as it may seem. 
	Although school privileges were denied them,
their education proceeded through the very
logic of events, and we who live in Utah have
had a similar experience. In laying the
foundations of the new government all ques-
tions were discussed that touched human in-
terests, not only publicly but privately, from
the pulpit and around the fireside. Women
listened and took part in them, and yet when
Mary Woolstencraft wrote her famous book,“A
Vindication of the rights of women;” which
was published in London in 1790, it was un-
sparingly condemned in American circles.
Such thiugs prove that the world has always
stoned its prophets.
	To later times the more recent developments
through the noble efforts of such grand women
in the United States as Lucretia Mott, Lucy
Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and our hon-
ored President, Susan B. Anthony, of the
National American W. S. A., whose anniver-
sary we celebrate today, we who live in this
Republic are greatly indebted for the privileges
of political liberty. In twenty-three states we
have school suffrage, in Kansas municipal
suffrage, and in Wyoming women enjoy equal
political rights with men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

	MESA CITY P. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items in regard to the Pri-
mary Association of Mesa City would be inter-
esting,  I herewith, at the request of Sister
Harriet Burton, President of the P. A., send
the following:
	It is presided over by Harriet Burton with
Laura Rapleye and Anna Phelps as Counselors.
The children take a great interest in their
meetings, which Sister Burton manages to make
very interesting. She has the faculty of win-
ning hearts, and so arranging the exercises
as to make them entertaining as well as in-
structive. A Primary Fair was held last sum-
mer or fall, which was very creditable to the
children. An account of it was sent to the
EXPONENT, but never appeared, much to the
disapointment of the officers and members of

[Column 2]

the Primary Association. It was the request
of the authorities of the Stake that funds be
contributed to assist in the completion and
furnishing of the Salt Lake Temple. The
Primary Association felt ambitious to take part
in such a noble work. They therefore inaugu-
rated an entertainment, which was a success
in every respect, and from the proceeds of
which they donated $15.00 for the Temple,
which is a credit to their heads and hearts.
They also have an interest in our Relief
Society Hall, furnishing a fine chandelier,
which is quite an ornament to the building.
Hoping you will make a little note of this in
the EXPONENT, and let the readers know that
Mesa is not a whit behind, in their Primary
organization, I remain your friend,
		S. M. POMEROY.

	IONA.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT—
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from
this part of our much favored land might
not be amiss, I submit the following:
	This place is inhabited mostly by young 
married people. By "young" I mean those
born and reared in Utah, to which fair land
some would fain return, but we feel mostly
that we have a mission here although not hav-
ing been called. There are, I should judge,
about sixty families; all, with perhaps one or
two exceptions, belonging to the same faith.
We have all of the different organizations and
in good running order considering that so few
live in town, most of the people being still on
their ranches. There seems a great desire to
have the children educated, not only in book
learning but in the principles of the gospel, as
there are a great many of us that took but
very little part in religion until we came to be
isolated as you might say from the leaders of
our Church and from our fathers and mothers,
who had taught us the principles of life and
salvation. Our worthy President of the Ban-
nock Stake, Brother Thos. E. Ricks, is a good,
kind father to us all, and we love to see his
smiling face as he makes his tours among us.
	Our Relief Society Jubilee was a great suc-
cess, and seemed to be enjoyed by all, and we
had a time of rejoicing long to be remembered.
Our program was similar to those I have seen
published. The EXPONENT is very valuable
to me and in reading it over I can see that
our Utah sisters are far ahead of us in the
cause of suffrage. I am one of those who once
enjoyed the right of franchise, and I hope to
see the day when we will again have all our
rights and privileges, never more to be taken
from us.
	I have been very much tied in the house this
winter, but I hope as the weather gets warmer
I will be able to go about, as I wish very
much to canvass for the EXPONENT, as I
would love to see every mother in Zion sub-
scribe for it, especially the young mothers, as
I believe it to be almost indispensable. In re-
calling the happy hours I have spent in read-
ing it, I would like to see my sisters also enjoy
it.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main yours in love,
		ELVIRA C. STEELE.


W. S. A. REPORTS.

			S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeting of Salt Lake
County W. S. A. was held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms, May 16th, 1892, Vice Pres.
Louise K. Spencer in the chair.
	Opened by singing, "Columbia's Daughters."
Prayer, Vice Pres., Phebe C. Young. Sing-
ing "Song for Equal Rights." Roll called,
minutes of meeting held March 15th 1892,read

[Column 2]
and approved, minutes of meeting held April
19th 1892, read and approved.
	A programme was rendered as follows:
Reading from The Woman's Manual of Parlia-
mentary Law, by Ardella Eardley. Reading
of a poem, "Martha Washington," by May B.
Talmage. Song, "In Old Madrid," by Maggie
Bassett. Reading, of "The first code of senti-
ments read at a convention held forty years
ago in Seneca Co., New York," by Mrs. Del
Felt. Reading of speeches of Isabella Beecher
Hooker and Miss Susan B. Anthony,by Maggie
Bassett.
	Elizabeth Price read several articles by emi-
nent writers on Equal Rights, and made some
remarks on them.
	Mrs. E. McFarlane read a few clippings on
the advancement of Woman's cause.
	Dr. E. S. Barney made a few remarks.
	Sarah A. Howard, President of the Bounti-
ful Association, made a few pleasing and in-
teresting remarks on Equal Rights.
	Ter. Pres., S. M. Kimball, said she had been
much pleased and edified with all she had
heard during the meeting, and was proud to
see so many young women take an active part
in the programme. Referred to the progress that
woman is making; encouraged the ladies to
press forward in this great work.
	Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in June, at the same time and place.
		MARGARET A. CAINE, Ass't Sec.

			OGDEN W. S. A.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Ogden
Woman's Suffrage Association was held in the
Fifth Ward Institute, April 26, 1892. A
goodly number of members present.
	Regular and miscellaneous business being
promptly disposed of, the president, Harriet
Brown, in an earnest and forcible manner ex-
pressed herself in favor of the enfranchisement
of woman. She should work to be set free
from oppression. Taxation, under which many
of her sex labored without representation, was
bondage, a species of despotism and slavery,
from which woman must be set free. The
equality of woman with man was not for a
special few, but designed to benefit womankind
in general. Mrs. Brown advised the reading
of the Woman’s Column,-the Woman’s Journal,
and other works treating on woman’s rights
and privileges.
	Mrs. Canfield, Mrs. Sarah Richards, Mrs. E.
Y. Stanford, Mrs. L.  B. Farrand, Mrs.  Jane
Richards, each in turn addressed the meeting.
Their speeches were to the effect that it was
woman’s duty as well as her right and privilege
to use her influence for good, and to bring her
ntelligence and talents to bear on all questions
affecting the social relations, the moral con-
dition of society, and the whole life and being
of the human race in every department thereof,
and as they apply to both sexes.. To do this
she must set herself industriously to work to
read up on all public questions, to inform her-
self on civil government and the Constitution
and laws of hej own country.
	An interesting select reading was given by
Mrs. L. B. Farr, also one,on the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. Y. Stanford,
which were listened to with marked attention.
	The meeting closed with a unanimous vote
that each one present canvass her neighbor-
hood and bring two other ladies with her to
the next monthly meeting, to participate in the
work and be prepared to share in the good
time coming.
		LIZZIE M. STANFORD, Secretary.


Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the
temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, sub-
dues pride; it bridles the tongue, restrains the
hand, and tramples upon temptations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	The following extracts from a private letter,
I feel sure, will be interesting to many of
your readers. The writer is a widow with five
young children.
							L. L. G. R.
			*	*	*	*
"DEAR BROTHER AND SISTER:
	I received your very kind and welcome let-
ter a week ago. I should write to you oftener,
but it seems as though every moment of my
time is necessarily employed. We often talk
about you, and wish we could see you all.
Even little John remembers your coming to
see us, and bringing the baby. He talks of it,
and how good the baby’s father is for sending
us the Juvenile Instructor with such pretty
stories in. There is no other amusement he
takes so much comfort in as listening to read-
ing.	*	*	I know you must be kept very
busy with your family of boys, but what a
comfort children are to their parents. There
are trials for all of us to pass through, but our
trials are so much easier if we trust in the
Lord and acknowledge his hand in all
things.	*	*	*	*
	The money you so kindly sent me was grate-
fully received, and was quite a surprise. The
Sunday before it came, I went to meeting, and
the Bishop said that all the tithing of every
kind must be paid before next Saturday night.
I owed five dollars in due bills, for my earn-
ings and a calf; and I had it on hand, for I 
had saved for that purpose. But I was tempt-
ed not to pay it, and to use it for something
else. I overcame the temptation, and paid
the five dollars; and after I had done so, I
felt so rejoiced to think I had overcome. And
at night I received your letter and the money
you sent; then I felt ashamed of having doubt-
ed that The Lord would provide. I thank you
both, and the Lord also, and pray Him to
bless and keep you always.”
		*	*	*	*	*	*
								S. P. G.


[Column 1]

NATIONALISM.

	The subject of Nationalism, upon which I
have been appointed to write (or something
akin to it, but under another name) has for
many years, been, to me, a very interesting
one; but unless my mind shall be enlightened
by the Holy Spirit, I shall not be able to do
justice to even my ideas upon the subject.
	Nationalism, as I understand it, is the con-
solidation of the interests of the people of a
nation, and I believe that a person who can
conceive of the beauty and shape the ideal of
such a system as Edward Bellamy has, in his
"Looking Backward," much to some extent be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Such a system
could not be carried out without unity,and unity
is a principle, or the effect, of obedience to the
Gospel; and it has been said, "No man
knoweth the things of God, but by the Spirit
of God."
	Mr. Bellamy says that by the practice of the
system which he so nicely portrays, all incen-
tives to dishonesty are taken away; but there
is always a space, between the theory and the
practice of every new system, in which some
preliminary steps have to be taken to get it
into working order. First, then, would come
conversion to the theory; then implicit faith in
the author of it. Lastly, but not least, a will-
ingness to sacrifice all of a person's worldly
possessions to establish it; for without a spirit
of prophecy no one could know that any thing
would succeed until it had been demonstrated
by actual practice.
	What the world calls nationalism (the

[Column 2]

essence of it, if not the method as described by
Mr. Bellamy) the Latter-day Saints call a
United Order, an order which must prevail,
among the Saints at least,when the will of God
is done on earth—as it is done in heaven. But
like all correct and righteous principles, it
takes righteous people to establish it—those
who can love their neighbor as themselves,
impart freely of their substance, and labor for
the good of all.
	We have on record several instances of a
system such as this having been in operation,
but at no time, as far as I know, except as a
result of obedience to the Gospel, unless the
Quakers and perhaps some other communities
of a like nature might be classed among that
order, but which according to my understand-
ing run in too narrow a groove to be classed
either with the nationalism of Mr. Bellamy or
the United Order of the Latter-day Saints.
	I will try in my feeble way, to present some
of the instances to which I have referred:
	It is recorded in the 1st chap., of the Acts
of the Apostles that Peter and the rest of the
Apostles were preaching the Gospel in Jerusa-
lem, subsequent to the death and resurrection
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and that
their hearers were pricked in their hearts and
said, "Men and brethren what shall we do?"
Peter replied, "Repent, and be baptized every
one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for
the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the
gift of the Holy Ghost; and in one day there
was added to their number about three thous-
and souls, and they continued steadfastly in
the Apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in
breaking of bread, and in prayers; and all
that believed were together and had all things
common, and sold their possessions, and goods,
and parted them to all men, as every man had
need."
	We find recorded also that at this time they
enjoyed the gifts of the Gospel; the sick were
healed, the blind were made to see, the deaf to
hear, the lame to walk, and the dead were
raised to life; and every man heard the Gospel
in his own tongue, whatsoever his nationality,
and the people rejoiced exceedingly in the
Holy One of Israel.
	In the 19th chap., of Matthew, we find that
a young man asked the Savior what good
thing he could do that he might have eternal
life. Jesus told him to keep the command-
ments, but the young man answered, "All
these things have I kept from my youth up;
what lack I yet?" "Jesus said unto him, If
thou wilt be perfect,go and sell that thou hast,
and give to the poor, and thou shalt have
treasures in heaven, and come and follow me,
But when the young man heard that saying,
he went away sorrowful for he had great pos-
sessions. Then said Jesus unto his disciples,
Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall
hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Let us now turn to the Book of Mormon,
and see what transpired upon this continent
after this time. In the book of Nephi, the son
of Nephi, who was the son of Helaman, we find
that, "there was a great multitude gathered
together of the people of Nephi, round about
the Temple which was in the land Bountiful,"
after the terrible storm and earthquakes which
had taken place at the time of the crucifixion of
our Lord and Savior at Jerusalem, when many
notable cities were overthrown and many
swallowed up in the depths of the sea, and the
whole face of the earth was changed. "They
were marveling and wondering, one with
another, and were showing to one another the
great and marvelous change which had taken
place, and they were also conversing about
Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given
concerning his death. And while they were
thus conversing, one with another, they heard
a voice as it were out of heaven, and it spoke
to them, even the third time, and they under-

[Column 3]

stood it, and it said unto them, Behold my
beloved son, in whom I am well pleased, in
whom I have glorified my name, hear ye him."
"When Jesus descended among them, and after
convincing them that it was he that had been
crucified, he taught them the gospel, ordained
twelve apostles and taught them many things
which he forbade them to write; and Jesus
blessed them as they did pray unto him and
his countenance did smile upon them, and the
light of his countenance did shine upon them
and behold they were as white as the counten-
ance and also the garments of Jesus; and be-
hold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the
whiteness,yea even there could be nothing upon
earth so white as the whiteness thereof," and
he taught them for three days, "and after that
he did show himself unto them oft" and did
break bread oft, and bless it, and gave it unto
them. He healed all their sick,and their lame,
opened the eyes of their blind, unstopped the
ears of the deaf, raised a man from the dead,
and opened the mouths of babes, and they
uttered marvelous things, and the things which
they did utter were forbidden, that there
should not any man write them. "And the
disciples whom Jesus had chosen began from
that time forth to baptize and to teach as many
as did come unto them  And as many as were
baptized in the name of Jesus were filled with
the Holy Ghost, and many of them saw and
heard unspeakable things, which are not law-
ful to be written, and they taught and did
minister one to another, and they had all things
common among them, every man dealing justly,
one with another. And he told them to take
upon themselves his name, for they were
founded upon his gospel, and by his name
they should be called at the last day."
	I will make only a brief extract from the
"Pearl of Great Price,"as my article is getting
already too lengthy: "And the fear of the
Lord was upon all nations, so great was the
glory of the Lord, which was upon his people,
and the Lord blest the land, and they were
blest upon the mountains, and upon the high
places, and did flourish, and the Lord called
his people Zion, because they were of one heart
and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness;
and there was no poor among them;	*	*	and
lo, Zion in process of time was taken up into
heaven."
	I will now quote from the Doctrine and 
Covenants from a revelation given to Joseph
Smith, the great Prophet of the 19th century,
April 23, 1834:
	"For it is expedient that I the Lord should
make every man accountable, as steward over
earthly blessings which I have made and pre-
pared for my creatures. I the Lord stretched
out the heavens, and built the earth as a very
handy work, and all things therein are mine."
	"And it is my purpose to provide for my
Saints, for all things are mine. But it must
needs be in mine own way; and behold this is
the way, that I, the Lord, have decreed to pro-
vide for my Saints, that the poor shall be exalted
in that the rich are made low. For the earth is
full, and there is enough and to spare; yea I
prepared all things, and have given unto the
children of men, to be agents unto themselves.
Therefore if any man shall take of the abund-
ance which I have made, and impart not his
portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto
the poor and the needy, he shall, with the
wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in tor-
ment."
	Now, in the light of the evidence which we
have upon the subject, it appears to me very
plain that the Lord designed that all His chil-
dren should share alike in the blessings of the
earth, and that when He comes whose right it
is to reign,it will be so arranged; and as "com-
ing events cast their shadows before," many
thinking people will solve the problem, "in
their minds;" but a perfect system of National-


ism, or United Order, will never be established
until every man can recognize in his neighbor
a friend or brother, and all have come to a
unity of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
						C. C. R. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WHAT TO TEACH YOUNG WOMEN.

   A mother writes:  “What shall I teach my
daughters?”  This one important and tremend-
ous fact: That there is no happiness in this
world for an idle woman.  It may be with
hand, it may be with brain, it may be with
foot; but work she must, or be wretched for-
ever.  The little girls of our families must be
started with that idea.  The curse of our
American society is that our young women
are taught that the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, tenth, fiftieth, thousandth
thing in their lives is to get somebody to take
care of them.  Instead of that, the first lesson
should be how, under God, they may take care
of themselves.  The simple fact is that a ma-
jority of them do have to take care of them-
selves, and that, too, after having, through the
false notions of their parents, wasted the years
in which they ought to have learned how suc-
cessfully to maintain themselves.  It is inhu-
man and cruel for fathers or mothers who pass
their daughters into womanhood having given
them no facility for earning their livelihood.
Madame de Stael said:  “It is not these writ-
ings that I am proud of, but the fact that I
have facility in ten occupations, in any one
of which I could make a livelihood.”  We
should teach our daughters that work of any
kind, when necessary, is a credit and honor to
them.  It is a shame for a young woman be-
longing to a large family to be inefficient when
the mother and father toil their lives away for
her support.  It is a shame for a daughter to
be idle while her mother toils at the washtub.
It is as honorable to sweep house, make beds,
or trim hats, as it is to twist a watch chain or
embroider a slipper.
			REV. T. DE WITT TALMAGE.


Leave aside all power of a woman's influence
over a man's life if you will, and consider his
helplessness. A man doesn't know how to take
care of himself. He is not quite as helpless as a
ship at sea without a compass, but the simile
can almost be truthfully applied. The absence
of a wife from home has demonstrated to many
a man how large and important a part she is
of it, and of him. The right kind of a wife
knows better what is essential to her husband's
comfort than he does himself—far better. He
waits for illness to come, and then combats it,
frequently when too late. But the wife sees the
symptoms and uses preventives. Her keen in-
sight tells her that her husband is unwell when
sometimes he is not conscious of it himself.
Leave a man alone, and he will sit for hours
in a pair of wet shoes, or wetter clothes. Not
so when a woman is near. Women, we are
told, know little of business, yet when business
troubles come to a man what a comfort a good
wife can be. When he despairs, she is hopeful.
By her efforts, more, perhaps, than by what
she actually accomplishes, she brings new hope,
new courage, and points the way to a new be-
ginning. How often women have been the
means of averting business disasters or mul-
tiplying failures with further implications the
world will never know, but there are men who
know it, and they are the men of whom to ask,
"Is woman a failure?"
				The Ladies Home Journal.


Although the British House of Commons
voted down the woman suffrage bill on April
27, which after Gladstone’s change was hard-


ly to be wondered at, still the vote stood 152
to 175, showing a large number in its favor.
Ex.
	The welcome to Lady Henry Somerset on
her landing at Liverpool, was so general and
enthusiastic that Association Hall could not
hold all who assembled, and an overflow
meeting of nearly seven hundred was held.
The mayor also gave her a reception at the
Town Hall. Ex.


A cheerful heart is the richest of all human
treasures; for even gold shines more brightly
in the smiles of the sun.
	
	There are three things which ought to be
considered before some things are spoken—the
manner, the time, and the place.
	
	We judge ourselves by what we feel capable
of doing, while others judge us by what we
have already done.


OBITUARY.

	Coombs.—In Mauston, Sunday evening, Jan. 24, 1892,
at 10 o'clock, after a brief illness of pneumonia.
	Mrs. Coombs was one of the first settlers of this city,
having resided here about 35 years. She was born at
Vinal Haven, Me., Oct. 11, 1812. Deceased was a lady
esteemed and respected by all who knew her for the many
excellent traits of character and uprightness which marked
her life. She was a true Christian, a constant Bible reader
and followed its precepts as nearly as it is possible for any
one in this world to do. Grandma Coombs belonged to
 hat kind, faithful old fashioned class of people whose
death leaves a vacancy not easily filled. Her only child,
Mrs. H. G. Penniman, of this city, suruives her. They
have always lived together and the kindly presence of
grandma in the home will long be sadly missed. The
 uneral was held at 2 o'clock p. m., on the 27th, from the
esidence of H. G. Penniman. Of the relatives present
were the grandchildren, H. H. Penniman, of Minneapolis;
Col. and Mrs. B F. Parker and daughter, of Milwaukee.
Rev. H. Goodsell, pastor of the M. E. church, officiated
at the funeral, which was attended by a large concourse of
sympathizing friends.

	The lady whose death we record here was bap-
tized many years ago into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Wilford
Woodruff, now President of the Church, who was
then on a mission to the Eastern States, particu-
larly Maine,in 1837. She has been in the habit of
paying her tithing and donations to the Temple of
late years, since having been rebaptized by Elder
Miles Romney when he was on a mission to the
Northwestern States. She was desirous of
gathering with this people, rejoiced in the testi-
mony of the truth and died full of faith and of
hope in the resurrection.—Editor.


VIAVI TREATMENT.

	Among the new discoveries of science is the
treatment known as viavi, which some of the 
medical journals of the day speak of in the
highest terms. It is a simple remedy, not dan-
gerous or disagreeable, and does not require
personal examination; the patient can attend to
her own case. It is a local remedy with a two
fold action, constitutional and local.


[column 1]
	OFFICE of the VIAVI COMPANY; Ladies in
poor health please call on Wednesday and
Saturday afternoon Room 533, Constitution
Building.

	MRS. M.E. VAN, M.D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
[column 2]
THE  WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D.C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year.  Trial Subscriptions, five
			weeks for 10 cents.
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed.
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E.  FIRST SOUTH STREET,
				Three doors west of Theatre.
R.K. THOMAS

26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY
	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
			THE
		Standard Gauge
			RAILWAY!

		THROUGH THE
	ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
		
	Choice of Three Distinct Routes
			AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
		IN THE WORLD.

	Two Fast Express Trains Daily
		EACH WAY BETWEEN
	OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.

ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
		Free of Charge.

	Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
			IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE,	 A.E. WELBY,	J.H. BENNETT
  Genl. Mgr.			Supt.			G.F. & P.A.

		DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
		DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

