VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1892.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS.

	Letter From Mexico—M. N. A. W. S. A. Con-
vention—A. S. B. Resolutions of N. A W. S. A.
Party at Centerville—Mary Rockwood. Memoir
of Catharine R. Woodbury—E. B. W. Letters
—L. L. Greene Richards.  Utah W. P. Club—E.
R. Shipp.  R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A. Re-
ports. Notes and News. Rest a Little.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam. Editorial Notes.
Example is Better Than Precept—S. M. P. Faith
in Prophecy—R. M. F.
	POETRY:—Saint Valentine's Day—L. S. D.
On Finding Some Flowers Under the Snow—M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh. The Ministry of Sorrow—
Elizabeth Lyle Saxon. Parting—E. R. S.


SAINT VALENTINE'S DAY.

WRITTEN FOR THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A kind old saint, is Saint Valentine
	Traveling over land and ocean deep
Kindly meeting friend and foe alike,
	Gaining from each a secret to keep;
Locked in the treasury of his heart
	Until another glad Valentine's day,
When to each, the other's secret he'll impart,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A generons old saint, is Saint Valentine
	Remembering alike, the rich and the poor.
From mansion to cottage he goes
	Wending his way to Poverty's own door,
A message true he leaves to each
	To some, scarcely knows what to say.
To all, lessons of love he would teach,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A sad old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	When his kindness is turned to hate,
Saddening some kind gentle heart,
	Like a message of love sent too late;
Throwing a shadow of sorrow and pain
	Over the sunshine of their day,
Or leaving on fair names a stain,
	That is not, Saint Valentine's way.

A happy old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	Wandering about, over hill and dale,
Like trusting youth, meeting youth,
	Telling to each, of love, a wondrous tale,
Bringing to each fair cheek a blush,
	Fair, as the fairest blossoms of May,
Whispering their love in a voice hushed,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

A glad old saint, is Saint Valentine,
	Stealing a peep,where none is allowed,
Seeing two gray heads, growing gray together,
	Over his missiles of tender love bowed.
The lines of love shine bright as ever,
	The paper now yellow with age and decay
Grows to each heart, dearer and dearer,
	That is Saint Valentine's way.

			L. S. D.
Feb. 14th 1892.


ON FINDING SOME FLOWERS UNDER
THE SNOW.

	This morn I brushed the snow away
		From where last year the violet grew,
	And there a tender blossom lay
		Of perfume rich, and violet hue.

	I raised its modest drooping head
		With gentle hand, and wondering mind,
	Why ere the snow and frost had fled,
		I should this gem of spring-time find.


A farther search revealed to view
	Two purple pansies,bright and rare,
Beneath last Autumn's leaves they grew
	And bloomed,and nestled snugly there

Burn's saw "within the harebells eye"
	The proof that nature had a God,
The violet showed me God was nigh
	And used his power beneath the sod.

I read a lesson from that flower
	A lesson old, yet ever new,
A proof of the Creator's power
	That can from death,young life renew.

I watched the plants at close of year
	And marked them wither, fade, and die,
And yet before the spring is here,
	They're looking upward to the sky.

So shall immortal spirits rise,
	From earthly gardens here below
To bloom 'neath heaven's eternal skies
	And through an endless summer grow.

There, guided by a Father's hand,
	And tended by His watchful care,
They'll live and progress in the land
	And life, immortal, with him share.

Thus, when we lay our lov'd ones down
	Beneath the snow clad cheerless sod,
We know they'll rise and wear a crown
	Fashioned by theirs, and natures God.

Oh, tiny flowret, sweet and pure
	I fain would linger at thy shrine,
Nor let one mundane care allure
	From works of love, and thoughts divine.

		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
Meadow, Jan. 20, 1892.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM MEXICO.

DEAR SISTER WELLS: 
	Knowing the interest you have in the well-
fare of the saints, I send you a few lines that
you and the readers of the EXPONENT may
know how we fare in this far off land of Mexico.
While you are having severe weather and are
enjoying sleigh-rides we are having beautiful
warm sunny days. The ground is dry, birds
are singing and it is like a beautiful May day
in Utah. We have had some severe weather
and two or three little scuds of snow but it
lasted but a few hours. Very little rain fell
during the summer, in consequence crops were
light and provisions are "high," butter 50cts.
potatoes 4 1/2, flour 7, dried fruit 30 cents per lb.
	Though times are hard the spirit of improve-
ment is not dead, but is manifesting itself in
the building of comfortable cottages, and ad-
ditions to houses. We are building a large
addition to our school house, when finished it
will be used for an Academy, having four
rooms, and will be a blessing to us for we are
in need of it. We are blessed with many
bright children who gave much credit to their
Teachers in two exhibitions they have had this
winter.
	The holidays were spent pleasantly and
quietly. There was a meeting in the morning
on Christmas and a programme of songs,
speeches and recitations. In the afternoon the
children enjoyed a picnic party, and in the
evening there was a dance for adults. On New
Year's it was much the same with the excep-
tion of a fellowship meeting in the morning,
in which an excellent spirit prevailed. Many
nteresting testimonies were borne showing the
remarkable manner in which our Father

[Column 2]

answers the prayers of and provides for his
children. During the Christmas week the
"Home Dramatic Club" played "Foiled" to
full houses, and did very well. One of the
"Club" painted all the scenery which was very
creditable.
	In our quiet little town there is not much
news to write to our friends, and some of us
were wishing a few weeks ago that something
would happen to break the monotony. Some-
thing quite unlooked for did happen that
caused great excitement, uneasiness and dread
of what would follow. There had been an
Election in La Ascension and through some
irregularity the votes had been cast aside and
men who were not popular with the people
had been appointed. A mob gathered and
the Presidentee, or Mayor, his Secretary, and
his brother-in-law were killed. The majority
of the residents of the town seem to have been
in sympathy with the rebels, so that there were
not men sufficient on the other side to protect
Government property. A call was made upon
our settlement for help, many of our brethren
responded, and guarded the property, but they
did not want to shed blood unless they were
obliged to do so in self defense.
	The Jefe Politica and troops from Paso Del
Norte came to quell the uprising and on their
arrival,the men who had been under arms at the
mill, dispersed and went to their homes where
some supposed ring leaders, were afterwards
arrested without further bloodshed. We had
been praying for this, for if there had been
fighting our brethren would have had to take
part.
	The President and his brother-in-law were
friends to our people,who feel very bad about
their death and sympathize with their families.
	Some of the leading brethren paid them a
visit and comforted them and expressed their
sympathy, told them of our belief concerning
deathand the resurrection. They appeared to
appreciate their visit very much. The dead men
lay in state, dressed in black dress suits with
their arms folded over their breasts. Burn-
ing candles with bows of black ribbon on them
stood at each end of the Catafalque. They
were buried quietly, no demonstration what-
ever at the funeral.
	Several officials from Paso Del Norte and
from Ascension visited our Sunday School and
afternoon meeting on Sunday the 17th inst.
The children rendered an impromptu pro-
gramme very creditably. At the afternoon,
meeting they heard the first principles of the
Gospel, and a powerful testimony of the truth
of the same.
	A lawyer present, who was one the party,
said it was a very philosophical discourse.
They seemed well pleased with us and what we
had done, and it is hoped much good will re-
sult from their visit.
	The lawyer wanted a hymn book for his
wife who speaks English, and the Jefe wanted
a Book of Mormon, both of which they re-
ceived.
	Thus another opportunity was afforded to
sow the good seed, which "Like bread cast
upon the waters," let us hope will bo found
after "many days."
			M.
	Colonia, Diaz, Mexico, Jan. 24, 1892.


Give what you have; to some one it may be
better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


N. A. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The twenty-fourth annual convention of the
National American W. S. A. was held in
Washington, D. C., Jan. 16—21. It was, of
course, a small gathering as compared with the
large assembly called together last year by the
Woman's National Council; the report of the
committee on credentials showed 71 delegates
present from 26 different States, and the meet-
ings were earnest, animated and interesting.
	The convention sermon was preached on
Sunday afternoon, Jan. 17, in the Church of
Our Father, by Rev. Mila F. Tupper, of Grand
Rapids, Mich. After the opening prayer by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Tupper, a young
and graceful woman, spoke with earnestness
and pathos from the text, "Think on these
Things."	*	*	The meetings which followed
were all attended by interested audiences, in
spite of the weather—true suffrage weather.
*	*	Little yellow flags bearing the names
of States marked the seats of the different
State delegations, and the large flag of Wyo-
ming, with its one star, hung conspicuously
of the wall. The loss of the old headquarters
at the Riggs House, with the cordial and
generous hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Spofford,
was much felt- But the Cochran, which had
been selected as the substitute for the Riggs,
is very conveniently situated, near both the
church and the Wimodaughsis, and it proved
to be a new hotel, clean and handsome in all
its appointments. The new quarters of the
Wimodaughsis are a great improvement upon
its former habitation. The present house is
opposite a park. The building is cheerful,
roomy and tastefully furnished, and the parlor
rented by the National American W. S. A. has
been prettily fitted up by the District of
Columbia W. S. A., and the furnishings pre-
sented to the mother association. It is im-
possible in this hasty sketch, written while the
convention is still in progress, to give more
than a hint of the earnest discussions, the fly-
ing to and fro of jokes across dinner tables till
the air fairly scintillates with wit, the swarm
of yellow ribbons fluttering on the breasts of
their excited wearers, like butterflies rocking
on flowers swayed by a lively breeze; the in-
terest of comparing notes; the pleasure of
making new friends and of meeting old ones.
Those who have been at suffrage conventions
know all about it; and to those who have not,it
would be hardly possible to describe it.
	The Programme Committee had done their
best to meet the wishes of the Convention as
expressed last year, by allowing ample time
for the transaction of business; but two Con-
gressional hearings were unexpectedly ap-
pointed for two of the mornings on which our
business meetings were to be held, and all other
less important business had, of course, to give
way to this. The hearings were on a petition
for a sixteenth amendment to the U. S. con-
stitution to forbid disfranchisement on account
of sex. On Monday morning, the House
Judiciary Committee was addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Miss
Susan B. Anthony. and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. On Wednesday morning, the Senate
Committee on Woman Suffrage listened to
brief speeches from a large number of women,
one from each State being chosen at the suf-
frage convention by the delegation from that
State. The hearings were regarded as emi-
nently satisfactory, and in spite of this en-
croachment upon the time allotted to our busi-
ness meetings, the Association managed to get
through with a great deal of work, as will be
seen when the detailed report of the
proceedings is published.
			A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal.


The innocence of childhood is sacred.


[Column 1]

﻿RESOLUTIONS OF N.-A. W. S. A.

	WHEREAS, "Political power inheres in the
people," and women are people; "Taxation
without representation is tyranny," and women
are taxed; "Governments derive their just
powers from the consent of the governed," and
women are governed, and the only form of
consent known in a republic is the ballot,
therefore,
	Resolved, That we base our demands for wo-
man suffrage on political justice and the ad-
mitted principles of republican government.
	Resolved, That in deciding the political status
of women, we must consider the rights, duties,
and responsibilities that belong to them, first
as individuals, second, as citizens; third as wo-
men; and fourth as wives, mother, sisters and
daughters, incidental relations of life, which in
some cases women may never assume.
	Resolved, That the energy and enthusiasm of
women should be centered in the attainment of
their own political freedom, for until they
have a voice in making the laws and electing
the rulers of their country, they can have no
power to right the wrongs of society and no
direct influence in government.
	Resolved, That the World's Columbian Ex-
position will afford great opportunity for ad-
vancing the woman suffrage movement, there-
fore we urge the friends of this reform in the
different States to raise all the funds possible
in order to supply suffrage literature to be
sown broadcast at that time, and to do such
other work as the Association in its judgement
may deem wise.
	Resolved, That we again urge each State
suffrage society to petition its State legislature
for a thorough revision of its laws regulating
the marriage relation, so as to secure to wives
and husbands equal personal and property
rights, to mothers and fathers equal rights to
their children, and to widows and widowers
equal inheritance of property.
	WHEREAS, Article 2, Section 1, paragraph
2, of the United States Constitution, ordains
that "each State shall appoint in such manner
as the Legislature thereof may direct, a cer-
tain number of Presidential electors," and,
	WHEREAS, President Harrison in his re-
cent message has proposed to Congress to sub-
mit a constitutional amendment curtailing and
restricting this now unrestricted appointment
by the State Legislature, therefore,
	Resolved, that we recommend the friends of
woman suffrage in every State whose Legisla-
ture is now or soon will be in session, immed-
iately to petition that body to enable the wo-
men of that State to vote in Presidential elec-
tions upon such terms and qualifications as the
Legislature may see fit to prescribe.
	Resolved, That the general officers of this As-
sociation address a memorial, enclosing a copy
of the above resolution to each of the eleven
Legislatures this year in session, with the con-
sent, in each case, of the vice president from
the State in question, and ask for a hearing on
the same, and that the National American
President and the President of that State be a
Committee to secure speakers for these hear-
ings.
	Resolved, That a fund be raised by this As-
sociation to defray the expenses of the speakers
in visiting and addressing these or other Legis-
latures in behalf of Presidential suffrage for
women.
	Resolved, That we deplore the partial nulli-
fication by the Illinois courts of the woman's
school suffrage law as a defeat of the Legisla-
ture and as a wrong inflicted upon women.
	Resolved, that we favor the Australian
Ballot at all elections, believing it a move-
ment for a more honest and intelligent vote.
	Resolved, That we request all societies
friendly to our cause to designate a time in
their annual meetings for the discussion of
	n suffrage.

[Column 2]

	Resolved, That in the name of American
womanhood, we declare that our National
honor cannot be maintained by resorting to
the barbarisms of war; that the killing of
hundreds or thousands would not restore to
life the three sailors who were killed by a mob
in Chili; and that the difficulty should be
settled by agreement or arbitration.
	WHEREAS, Believing that women as a part
of the people, and therefore citizens of the
United States possess the right to vote for
members of Congress, therefore,
	Resolved, that the National American Wo-
man Suffrage Association urges upon Congress
the passage of an act to protect women in the
right to register and vote for the members of
the National House of Representatives.
	Resolved, That the school suffrage for women
now established in twenty-three States and
Territories, municipal suffrage in Kansas, full
suffrage in Wyoming, give assurance that wo-
men will eventually be recognized as the politi-
cal equals of men.
	Resolved, That in the six Territories not yet
admitted as States, we will make strenuous
efforts to secure full suffrage by statute in ad-
vance of their admission.
	Resolved, That we urge our women's clubs
and societies to use all the power they indi-
divually possess to make their influence felt
politically in the on-coming election.
	Resolved, That the circulation of woman
suffrage papers is the most efficient method of
creating and sustaining suffrage sentiment, that
every member of a local suffrage association
should be urged to take some one paper in
order to keep well informed of what women
are doing.
	Resolved, that the thanks of this Association
are due to the Rail Roads for courtesies ex-
tended, to all newspapers for full and fair re-
ports given, to Wimodaughsis for its kind at-
tentions and helpful courtesies, and to the
citizens of Washington for their generous hos-
pitality.


PARTY AT CENTERVILLE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	On the 13th day of January was our worthy
and esteemed Relief Society President's birth-
day, Sister Margaret Randall of Centerville,
she has held that office 20 years and is honored
by all for the faithful and noble performance
of her duties. She was 69 years old, and her
life has been full of hardships and sacrifices,
but father time has been good to her and she
carries her age lightly; the Society members
united with her family in getting up a sur-
prise which was successfully carried out.
While she was at her daughter's they took pos-
sesion of her home and tables were spread
and filled with the good things of this earth;
she was then sent for and was much pleased
with what had been done; after supper was
partaken of a few hours were spent in songs,
conversation, and some excellent speeches full
of good advice and counsel to the sisters were
given from Brothers Porter, Randall, Woolley
and Randall. After wishing Pres. Randall
many happy years of usefulness, the company
dispersed well pleased with their efforts to
honor their President.
			MARY ROCKWOOD, Sec. R. S.


Mrs Harriet Taylor Upton will be at the
suffrage parlors at the Wimodaughsis, 1328, I
Street, Washington, D. C., on two mornings of
each week, and on the other days some other
member of the Congressional Committee of the
National-American W. S. A. will endeavor to
be there. Any letters of inquiry relative to
Congressional work should be addressed to
Mrs. Upton, at 1328, I Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MINISTRY OF SORROW.

I once thought grief and pain were cruel things;
And human hearts, were thus like bruised wings
Of poor hurt birds, made all too weak to fly.
It is not so; pain fits a heart for flights so high,
That human ken can never more its way pursue,
Until its hurt is surely healed, by heavenly dew
From its own bitter anguish fiercely wrung,
And this healing dew, on many another heart is flung.

Be patient then, oh wronged and weary one,
Be patient still. nor wish the wrong to thee undone;
For somewhere in a lone, far distant day,
A lamp in God’s own hand will light thy way,
And thy vision then will to thee plainly show,
That thus alone, can love to his full statue grow.
Not love alone for some fair, smiling face,
But love that helps and heals the human race.
ELIZABETH LYLE SAXON.


PARTING.

This life has many varied scenes
Of joy and peace of grief and pain,
To-day we meet tomorrow part,
Perchance to never meet again.

How oft we part from those we love
In sullen angry thoughtless mood.
And think that we'll soon meet again
Adown life's shining,sunny road.

Bnt days and weeks and months go by,
Yes even long and weary years
Before we see the brightening eye
Last seen in sullen angry tears

And oftentimes it is the last
Of mortal parting on the earth,
And we will only meet again
At our sublime celestial birth.

Then let us live and part in peace
With those we love and all around,
So fellowship and love’ll increase
And not a vain regret be found.

Oh never let the parting sun
Go down upon our childish wrath;
Forgive,forget the wrong that's done
And walk the loving peaceful path.
	E. R. S.


MEMOIR OF CATHARINE R.
WOODBURY.

   Sister Catharine R. Woodbury who died
November 1, 1891 in the 76th year of her age
was the wife of Counselor Thomas H. Wood-
bury of the 7th Ward of this City.
	Sister Woodbury whose maiden name was
Haskell was of Puritan descent on both the
father and mother’s side; the Haskells and the
Maynard’s (her mother’s name before mar-
riage) were among the early settlers in New
England. Catharine was the eldest daughter
of Samuel Haskell and was born in North New
Salem Franklin Co., Mass., July 6, 1816.
When the Gospel was first preached in that
place, she believed and was shortly afterwards
baptized, Nov. 1841, the only one of a large
family, who obeyed the Gospel, though they
were very favorably disposed. The next May
she was married to Elder Thomas H. Wood-
bury and almost immediately left for the
gathering place of the Saints, Nauvoo, Ill.
There her first child a little daughter very
bright and attractive was born, and died. This
seemed a sad blow to the fond mother for such
she has ever been. Other children were after-
wards born to her, but she never forgot her
first born, left in the lonely grave, when in
common with others, she was forced to leave
her home in that beautiful city and journey
westward to seek a place of refuge.
	Sister Woodbury was always a genuine
Latter-day Saint, never faltering in obedience
to the faith she had embraced and for which
she had forsaken father, mother, brothers,


sisters and friends, and the comfort and plenty
of a home, where she had known only love
and tender solicitude.
	Sister Woodbury came to the valley in 1847
enduring the privations incident to that period
living in the Old Fort and passing through the
trying ordeals of those early pioneer times.
Later in life their circumstances greatly im-
proved and Sister Woodbury could enjoy more
of the pleasures and comforts to which she had
been accustomed in former days; which no
doubt she fully appreciated, though she had
never complained, or seemed to think her lot
was hard, while she had her family around her.
She was a most affectionate and devoted wife,
a fond and tender mother, a kind neighbor
and true friend.
	Sister Woodbury was a faithful member of
the Relief Society of the seventh ward and
was early chosen a teacher which office she
filled most efficiently until her health would no
longer permit of her going out.
	She suffered a great deal for a long time but
was very patient and full of faith. She will
be greatly missed and sincerely mourned  by
her co-laborers in the Society. The deceased
leaves a husband and three children, one
daughter, two sons, and several grand children
to mourn her loss. Sister Woodbury has
brothers and sisters in the Eastern States, two
brothers in the West one in Kansas and
another in Iowa, influential men, and a maiden
sister in Hartford, Conn.
	She has lived a consistent life as a Latter-
day Saint and has gone to her rest to await
the morning of the first resurrection. Her
funeral took place from the seventh ward
meetinghouse and was numerously attended.
May our Heavenly Father comfort those who
mourn, that they may have the consolation of
the Holy Spirit in this their sad bereavement.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord
from henceforth they rest from their labors
and their works do follow them.”
						 	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
LETTERS.

   Dear Aunt Em:—Believing these communi-
cations may be interesting to others as well as
the writers, I send them to you.—Lula.
	Jan. 3, 1892.

MRS. L. L. G. RICHARDS,
Salt Lake City.
DEAR SISTER LULA:
   While I have been reading the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and musing on its contents for
Christmas, I have been impressed to pen a few
of my thoughts and feelings to you. While
doing so, I hope I shall not be intruding on
your time and patience.
   I would like to tell you a little of my ex-
perience as a friend and sister in the Gospel
of Christ, thinking you may be able to explain
some things which I cannot understand.
   Often I am led to wonder why it is that 
some of our people, who were once my friends,
who came from the same country, and were
poor like myself, have now become rich, and
live in palaces; and because I have not
chanced to be favored in like manner, although
I have always worked very hard, they pass me
by and do not even recognize me. I wonder
too, if it was as hard to endure poverty here,
when all were poor, as it is now when some
are so rich and great.
   We hear a great deal about looking after
the poor among us. But I sometimes think
there is a great lack in seeking to find out the
downcast, and making them happy, I could
mention several instances of this kind which
have come under my observation. There is
too much party feeling exhibited among us as

[Column 2]
a people; and too little friendship and kindly
interest in one another, it seems to me.
   Please take this in the spirit it is given, and
answer as the Good Spirit may suggest to you.
If I am wrong, I look to you for correction. 
My desire is always to improve and grow
better.
   Hoping the present year may be to you a
happy and prosperous one,
		I am your sister in the Gospel.
M. A. 
S. L. City, Jan. 14, 1892.
DEAR SISTER M. A.
	In reply to your favor, I will say that I too
have been interested in the holiday number of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
   Next. Why should we pause to wonder at
the changes produced in some people, because
of changed circumstances? Do we not know
that only a small portion of our Father's
children possess the true independence which
keeps the heart as warm and generous under
the varied exciting influences which accompany
wealth, as it would be in the more calm and
quiet ways the poor must follow in? If we
have friends who are liable to be overcome
by the snares which riches bring, it is our duty
to breathe especial prayers for them. Our
feelings towards them should be those of pity
not of envy.
   We should ever cherish that spirit of true
moral courage which will enable us to rise
above any despondency which might come to
us because of personal slights, offered by
thoughtless or ignorant people whoever they
are.
   Our sisters of the Relief Society who are
especially engaged in the good work of looking
after the poor and needy have always much on
their hands which must be attended to. And 
if some less imperative cases seem at times
have been overlooked, there are, doubtless,
some features connected with them which
upon investigation, would render the seeming
neglect quite pardonable.
   If we know any who are cast down and in
sorrow and loneliness, it is the duty of any
of us who are numbered among the Latter-day
Saints,to cheer and comfort all such who come
to our notice.
   And now, dear sister, I will give you a few
of my thoughts, concerning the best way of
cheering sad hearts.
   We must look about us, and call to mind
how many blessings have been bestowed upon 
us; how much every one who has faith in the
Lord, Jesus Christ, has to be thankful for; the
darkness and doubt we have been rescued
from; the goodness of God made manifest in
our behalf every day, and the glorious hope
we are looking forward to. No one can con-
template these things understandingly, and be
cast down and unhappy, no matter what the
surrounding circumstances may be. And with
this view of things reflected in mind and heart,
one is ready to speak comforting words to
others.
   We must cultivate peace and good will in
our own hearts: then we shall find happiness
in life, and always have something good to im-
part to our fellow creatures.
   I shall be pleased to hear from you again
and hope for a more cheerful letter next time.
Remember the words of the wise king and
prophet.
	“A merry heart doeth good like a medi-
cine."
	May you always be blest.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


Florence Nightingale is so exhausted by an
attack of la grippe that her condition is 
reported as critical. She is about 72 years
old.


116
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B.WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Clast Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - FEBRUARY 15, 1892.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Smith Kimball,
who departed this life on Monday morning Feb.
1, 1892 was born in Watertown Jefferson Co., New
York, September 7, 1810. Her life has been 
written in the columns of the EXPONENT up to
1882, so we shall only mention a few of the most
important events. 
	Sister Kimball was the widow of Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Her parents were direct descendants
 of the Puritans and on the paternal side from 
Simon Huntington the noted Puritan who came 
over to America in 1633, and Samuel Huntington 
one of the signers of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, Governor of Conn., and President of the
Continental Congress, was of the same family. 
Her mother was a New Hampshire woman grand
daughter of a celebrated physician who traced his
lineage from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. The Huntingtons
intermarried with the Lathrops, another famous 
New England family from which Presendia gets
the name Lathrop as one of the representatives of 
the family. 
	Presendia Huntington is said to have been the
exact counterpart of Eliza Huntington, who is
given in the geneological book of that family as
the type of race. She had a commanding
figure and was really what one would term a 
magnificent woman physically; spiritually she 
was wonderfully endowed with those gifts and
graces that surround one with a pure at-
mosphere and help to lift humanity to a higher
plane of thought and emotion. Although Aunt
Presendia, the name by which she was best known
was decidedly of a spiritual temperament, yet she
was thoroughly practical and particularly well
balanced between the two. She was a model 
housekeeper and manager, economical and far-
seeing; in her early life had been taught those 
domestic pursuits that fitted her admirably for her
later pioneer work in new countries. 
	Miss Huntington was married at the age of 
seventeen years to Norman Buell a young man 
of industrious habits and integrity and her first 
child a son called George who is still living in St. 
Joseph, Mo., a man of considerable influence,
was born in Mannsville, Dec. 12, 1828.
	Mrs. Buell's second son Silas was born Dec.
25, 1831. and on the 13th of Nov. 1833, he met 
with a terrible accident, and was so badly burned
that he died thirteen hours after. Mrs. Buell 
was in delicate health and the shock to her sys-
tem was so terrible that it brought on severe ill-
ness, during which time her third son was born 
March 8th, 1834, the child died the same day;
they called him Thomas Dymick. 
	Afterwards they moved to Pinbury in Lewis Co.
and there they first heard the Everlasting Gospel 
as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and also 
of the Book of Mormon. This occured in 1835,

[column 2]
her mother bringing the intelligence when she
came on a visit. Soon after the Buells sold out
and the following spring moved to Kirtland Ohio, 
where Sister Presendia was baptized on the first 
of June 1836 and confirmed by Oliver Cowdery,
and her husband was baptized on the 9th of the 
same month.
	After receiving the Gospel her health was re-
stored and she was again more cheerful than
ever before since the unfortunate and untimely 
death of her little boy. September 8th, 1836, 
another son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Buell
whom they named Chauncey D. this little one
only lived a short time expiring on the 1st day of
October about three weeks old.
	In Kirtland Sister Presendia received
strong testimonies of the faith she had
embraced and saw many wonderful things, she
was one of those who heard the heavenly music 
in the Kirtland Temple, and who saw the angels
clothed in white upon the top of the Temple
seemingly walking to and fro; this was in broad
daylight in the afternoon. There was a great out-
pouring of the Holy Ghost in the Temple on 
that occasion, which was like a baptism of fire,
for every one seemed to partake of the spiritual
gifts and blessings. It was a peculiar season of
rejoicing, Sister Presendia describes one of the 
meetings in the Temple in her own language
thus.
	"The whole congregation were on their knees
praying vocally for such was the custom, at the 
close of these meetings when Father Smith pre-
sided, yet there was no confusion. The voices of 
the congregation mingled softly together. While
the congregation was thus praying, we heard
from one corner of the room above our heads, a
choir of angels, singing most beautifully. They 
were invisible to us, but myriads of angelic voices
seemed to be united in singing some song of Zion
and their sweet harmony filled the Temple of 
God."
	At another time there was what they called a 
pentecost, on that occasion the Holy Ghost filled
the house to such a degree that the congregation 
was startled not knowing what it was; to many it
seemed as though the roof was all in flames;
even Father Smith exclaimed, "Is the house on
fire?" Do you not remember your prayer this
morning Father Smith? inquired a brother.
Then the patriarch, clasping his hands exclaimed
"The Spirit of God, like a mighty rushing wind!"
	The Huntingtons and also Mr. and Mrs. Buell
went up to Missouri in the same company with 
Joseph and Hyrum Smith and their families; they 
settled in Clay Co. Mo. where they were living 
at the time the Prophet and other brethren, Wm. 
Huntington, Presendia's brother being one of the
number, were imprisoned in Liberty Jail, where
Sister Presendia had the opportunity of visiting
them, the first time with Father Huntington, 
Heber C. Kimball and Alanson Ripley; this com-
pany had the opportunity of taking dinner with 
the brethern in prison. Sister Presendia made 
a second visit to the prison with Frederic G. 
Williams; it was after that the Prophet addressed
a letter to Sister Presendia which she has pre-
served in the Prophet's own hand writing as a
precious memento dearer far than gold. 
	Mrs. Buell had a child born in Missouri while
 they were living on Fishing River in Clay Co., in 
a very humble home, there on the 24th of April
1838 her first daughter was born; she called her
Adeline Elizabeth; but this child born under the
most trying circumstances, was not destined to 
live, the hardship had in all probability been too 
great and the excitement of those days when the
country was full of mobs and armed men, was the
cause of many deaths; the child only lived four 
hours. 
	The persecution from various causes that Sister
Presendia endured in Missouri during those
dreadful times of affliction seem almost im-

[column 3]
possible to believe; and through it all she dis-
played the most heroic courage, although her
husband failed in his faith, yet she maintained
the same unflinching integrity and unfaltering
fidelity to the Gospel she had embraced, willing
to forsake all and die if neccessary.
	In the Spring of 1839 the Huntingtons were
obliged to leave Far West and Sister Buell was
left without one Latter-day Saint in that vicinity.
She never saw her mother again, for on the 8th 
of July following Sister Huntington died of the
hardship and fatigue consequent upon the perse-
cution and driving. 
	On the 31st of Jan. 1840, another son was born 
to Mr. and Mrs. Buell whom they called Norman
Oliver. In the fall of that year they moved to
Illinois and settled between Quincy and Nauvoo. 
Here they were living when the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch took place. Alone and in 
sorrow Sister Presendia mourned, who can de-
scribe her grief, no mortal being can tell the
anguish of her soul when the shocking news 
came. 
	Sister Presendia through much tribulation had
the opportunity of receiving the ordinances of the 
House of the Lord in the Nauvoo Temple and
escaped with the Saints taking her little boy
Oliver, through the assistance of her eldest son
George and afterwards assisted by friends, 
through severe hardship and suffering, she at last
reached a place of safety, this was during the
severe mobbing and driving of the Saints in 
Nauvoo. She succeeded through struggles, pri.
vations, and numerous trials and difficulties in 
arriving at Winter Quarters on the Mo. river; she
was very ill, almost unto death, and just about this 
time her father died at Mt. Pisgah. 
	In Winter Quarters Sister Presendia had
especially wonderful experiences of various kinds
many of these are related in the sketch of her life
published in volumes 11 and 12 of this paper. 
	Sister Presendia came to the valley in 1848,
having been previously married to Pres. Heber
C. Kimball. Sister Presendia drove her own 
team a good part of the way across the plains ar-
riving here on the 22nd of September, and settled
down in the Old Fort. Jan 6, 1849, Sister Kim-
ball had a beautiful little daughter born to her, 
whom she called Presendia Celestia, and indeed
she seemed more spirituelle than as belonging to 
to this earth. 
	In the beautiful month of May the year follow-
ing this little one was accidentally drowned in City 
Creek. This was a terrible blow to the afflicted
parents; the little one had endeared herself to all
the family, Sister Vilate Kimball designated her, 
"The flower of the flock." This sad circumstance
came near being the death blow to Sister Pre-
sendia, who had already passed through so many
trying ordeals. 
	When the work of giving endowments began 
in the old Council House, Pres. Brigham Young
called upon Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Presen-
dia L. Kimball to officiate as Priestesses in the
ordinances of the House of the Lord; there she
labored in connection with Sister Whitney until
the fall of 1851. On the 22nd of Dec. 1851 her
son Joseph Smith Kimball was born. Sister Pre-
sendia looked upon him as a gift from the Lord
and has often made the remark, "He is to me an
Isaac indeed."
	After the death of Pres. Kimball even more
than previously, Sister Presendia gave her time al-
most entirely to ministering and comforting the 
sick and sorrowing, and visiting the organizations
of the Relief Society in the several Stakes of 
Zion, wherever and whenever she was called to 
go. She also held the office of Secretary in the 
16th Ward. 
	Sister Presendia was called to officiate in the
Logan Temple at the time the work was started
in that sacred edifice, and remained some weeks
after the dedication, until she was released to re-


tnrn home.  To attempt telling all Sister Presen-
dia’s labors for the good of the daughters of Zion
in blessing and instructing would be impossible,
but she has finished her earthly mission and has
no doubt received the plaudit “Well done good
and faithful servant.” She made great sacrifices
for the Gospel and remained steadfast through all.
	Her last illness was not very long, she took a 
severe cold and coughed a great deal, suffered
some from acute rhumatism but there is little
doubt that the ailment to which she succumbed
was la grippe.  Loving hands and tender, min-
istered to her wants and were ready to anticipate
her wishes from the time she was taken sick.  Her
sister Zina Young and her son Joseph were with
her constantly, and there was no lack of skillful
help for she was very greatly beloved by the 
sisters.
	Sister Kimball passed away peacefully at last
just as though falling asleep, at seven o’clock on
the morning of Feb. 1, 1892, with family and
friends around her.  It was certainly a beautiful
death, if death it can be called.
	The funeral of Sister Kimball was held in the
Assembly Hall in this city Feb. 3, the body
lay in state from nine until eleven at which 
time the services began; the stands and pillars
were draped in white with trailing smilax en-
twined and the most beautiful Bermuda Easter
lilies, emblems of purity, in vases covered with
white drapery ornamented the stands.  The 
casket was pure white and very elegant, and 
covered with flowers in various artistic wreaths,
stars, pillow etc.  But the calm and pleasant face
of the sleeper within was the grandest of all.
	There was a large concourse of people in at-
tendance and upon the stand were Presidents
Geo. Q, Cannon and Joseph F. Smith of the First
Presidency and some of the Apostles and other 
leading men.  Of the Presidency of this Stake
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor and Pres. C. W. Penrose.
Pres. Jos. E. Taylor presided, the singing was by
the Tabernacle choir under Prof. Evan Stephens
and was excellent, the first hymn was
	‘‘Farewell all earthly honors.’’
	The opening prayer was offered by Bishop O.
F. Whitney, singing the beautiful hymn,
	“When first the glorious light of truth.’’
	Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the congrega-
tion in a very interesting manner, referring to the 
condition of spirits after death, reading concern-
ing these things from the Book of Doctrine and 
Covenants.  Pres. Jos. F. Smith followed, after
reading some extracts from the Book of Alma,
he spoke upon the resurrection and the conditions
hereafter.
Much good instruction was given, after which the 
choir sang
	“Rest, rest for the weary soul.’’
	The benediction was pronounced by Apostle
John Henry Smith, a long cortege of carriages
followed the remains to the cemetery; the grave
was dedicated by Apostle F. M. Lyman, thus
closed the funeral services, for our departed
sister, and she was laid to rest with the beautiful
snow all around her, emblematic of the purity of
a higher life beyond, whither she has gone, to
meet a host of loved ones.
	Her son George Buell who resides in St. Joseph
Mo., arrived in time to attend the funeral, though
too late to see her again in life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In future the address of the President of
the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D. H. Young will be
No. 146. 4th St. Salt Lake City, Utah.
	On account of the sketch we publish in this
 issue of Sister Presendia L. Kimball, and some
other important matter, the story, "In Rural
England,"--is crowded out, but will be continued


in the next issue of the paper. We have on hand
several notices of deaths of our good sisters who
have gone, resolutions of respect etc., also Relief
Society reports that await publication, but will
use them as soon as practicable.
	On Thursday Feb. 4, in company with Mrs. E.
Howard we went to American Fork to attend an
annual meeting of the Relief Society of that place.
A report of twenty-four years work was presented
which made a magnificent showing of what had
been accomplished in that time. Mrs. Mary S.
Hindley who has presided over that Society from
the date of its organization, and has been a most
efficient and really executive manager, was un-
able to attend the meeting on account of having a
severe cold and cough, consequently her first
Counselor, Mrs. Ellen Clark, presided. Mrs.
Mary John, Pres. R. S. Utah Stake and Mrs.
Emily G. Cluff her Counselor were present from
Provo, and there was an excellent attendance at
both meetings afternoon and evening. Bishop
Geo. Halliday manifested great interest in the
sisters labors and spiritual work. The subjects
treated upon were the general work of the Relief
Society, ministration to the sick, the needy, and
the sorrowing, the elevation and advancement as
well as enfranchisement of woman, the care and
training of children, the mother’s influence,
proper and healthful amusements, hygiene and
physiology, and the coming Jubilee on the 17th of
March, also preparation for exhibits at the
World’s Fair in 1893. The visit was a very
pleasant one, and the sisters and in fact the
brethren as well, all seemed to appreciate the
benefits and blessings to be derived from the or-
ganized work and influence of women. The only
drawback to the pleasure of the meetings was the
absence on account of illness, of the honored and
venerable President.


EXAMPLE IS BETTER THAN PRECEPT.

	The truthfulness of this saying has been proven
a great many times. We cannot put confidence in 
a person who is continually breaking the rules he 
prescribes for others.
	We may consider the counsel good and see
that it would do us good to carry out these pre-
cepts, but unless the person lives up to the pre-
cepts he inculcates himself,(or herself as the case 
might be), it does not come with so much force.
Then how necessary it is for each one to set a
good example, and not by our acts cause others
to do wrong, thereby bringing a double weight of 
condemnation upon ourselves. If we would all
strive to exert an influence for good, with our fel-
low creatures, we would not listen to evil reports
concerning a brother or sister. We would have
the spirit of charity and not judge hastily or 
rashly, for “charity covereth up a multitude of
sins.” Let us be so filled with a desire for the
good for others, that we will have no room for
the indulgence of those evil traits, envy and
jealousy. The Spirit of God cannot dwell in the
hearts of those who give way to these spirits,they
cause us to look with an evil eye upon the char-
acters of our associates. We cannot see any
good in them, their acts are turned to evil. But 
to return to our subject ‘Example is better than
Precept,” our teaching would have but little force
were we continually breaking the rules, we were 
trying to enforce upon others.
	How can we impress it upon the minds of
others that slander is a terrible sin, if we indulge
in the habit of vilifying our neighbors onrselves,
would they not throw it in our teeth and say
‘‘practice what you preach.” If we are con-
tinually breaking the Word of Wisdom, which 
the Lord has revealed for our guidance, how can 
we show to others the benefits to be derived by
the disuse of those articles mentioned in the 
Word of Wisdom, we could not have the influ-


ence that we would have, were we strict in the 
observance of these requirements.  We would
lose the spirit of the Gospel, and be classed with
hypocrites, and what is worse than a religious
hypocrite, they are despised by the honorable,
and upright wherever they are found.
								S. M. P.


FAITH IN PROPHECY.

	I have been one of the many that have looked
forward to the year 1891, for something of un-
usual importance to occur; for some scene to be
wound up, for that is what the prophecy states
that was uttered on the 14th of February 1835,
and I claim to have faith in God and in His 
servants and therefore I believed that if any 
prophecy ever came true that one surely would,
as it must have been uttered by the Spirit of God;
it could scarcely be otherwise at such a time
when the Twelve Apostles were being blessed
and set apart to prune the vineyard for the last
time, (even 56 years should wind up the scene)
and while nothing happened seemingly as I
thought it should yet it did not shake my faith for
the Lord says though the heavens and earth
should pass away not one jot or tittle of His word
should fail, so I was willing to believe that al-
though I could not see it this prophecy had
actually been fulfilled, and that if I would wait in
patience the day would come when I shonld know
it. I was thinking about these things one day
when lo! it struck me like a flash. What about
the scene of peace? surely is not peace taken
from the earth? Is not the whole world in com-
motion? Do we not hear of wars and rumors of
wars, are not the wicked slaying the wicked, are
there not earthquakes and famines and pestilence
in divers places, and dreadful accidents by sea
and by land? And have we not had judgments in
the house of the Lord, are not some of us even
now being sorely tried, and have we not as a peo-
ple passed through some very dark days in the
last ten years.
	And while some assert that our own land is in
a state of peace yet in the year '91, we were fight-
ing with the Indians, I was satisfied with this
explanation. What a picture the world would
present could it pass before our eyes like a pano-
rama with its scenes of distress, its strifes, and 
its turmoils I think we should exclaim as the
Prophet Joseph said we should, "O Lord shut out
the vision!" and yet the Savior says that these
things should be but the beginning of sorrows.
Thene where Oh, where will it all end? How
truly thankful we should be that we are numbered
with the people of God, that we are gathered out
of the world into His holy mountains where He
can and will take care of us- If we are faithful
notwithstanding we may have to endure many
trials we know they will be for our purification
and the Lord has said according to our trials so
our strength should be, if we would but trust in
Him.

	Then Lord to thee our hearts we'll raise
	In songs of everlasting praise;
	That we are numbered with the blest,
	Where we may live in righteousness,
	Where we may dwell till strife is o'er,
	Then reign with thee for evermore,	
								R. M. F.


UTAH W. P. CLUB.

	U. W. P. Club met at the parlors of Ruth
M. Fox Jan. 30th 1892 Pres. E. B. Wells in
the chair.  Exercises opened with prayer by
Susa Y. Gates.  Minutes were then read and
approved with one amendment.  Committee
on by-laws  nominated and sustained as follows
Julia A. McDonald Ellis R. Shipp and


Caroline C. R. Wells. Moved and seconded
that these by laws be prepared by the Com-
mittee and submitted for consideration at the
next meeting.
	The Pres. said she had a communication
from Washington in reference to uniting with
the International Federation of Press Clubs
of the women of all lands, which she would 
state for the consideration of the Club; thought
there were many advantages to be gained by
so doing, would be more conversant with other
club work and have greater opportunities, at
 the World's Fair. A motion was made and 
carried that we obtain the money and join the
federation as soon as possible.
	Susa Y. Gates said she had a blank to
which she would like signatures to a petition 
to Congress, to make manuscript postage as
cheap as printed matter. She also offered a
suggestion that all original articles be put in
the hands of a good reader,without signatures
with the object of improvement, thought this
should be included in the by-laws. Miss Davis
suggested that certain ones should be appoint-
ed to prepare original articles for each meet-
ing.
	An interesting original article entitled
"Prophecy fulfilled" was then read by Ruth
M. Fox. A little poem "Parting" read by
Ellis R. Shipp, A poem from the facile pen of 
E. B. Wells entitled "A Fragment" was most
expressively read by our popular elocutionist
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, selected article on the 
"Ideal Woman's Press Club" read by Miss
Davis who also suggested that we vary our
programme by reviewing the New Publications
of Women.
	Susa Y. Gates suggested that writers should
take the Home Journal and Writer. The 
President then read an article entitled "The
admission of members to Press Clubs,,. The
doors should be guarded against adventurers
of all kinds. In large cities all candidates
should have their vouchers. Various ad-
vantages in having social communion and
refreshments. "Eating together warms the
heart and loosens the tongue" a true
exemplification of this fact then followed
through the courtesy of Treasurer Ruth M.
Fox.
	Five new members were then proposed and
unanimously sustained as members and meet-
ing adjourned till Feb. 26th 1892: Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sarah White.
			E. R. SHIPP M. D. Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A.
REPORTS.

SANPETE.
	Dec. 19, 1891, Relief Society Conference of
the Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in Manti.
Pres. M. A. P. Hyde presiding, choir sang
"How pleased and blessed was I." Prayer
offered by Pres. C. Peterson.  Choir sang "Be-
fore Jehovah's glorious throne."  Pres. M. A.
P Hyde expressed her pleasure in having the 
opportunity of meeting with the sisters in con-
ference, she felt to rejoice in this day although
we have trials of a different nature than we
have had in former times.  "The work of the 
Lord is progressing and it is necessary that we
should have a testimony of the Gospel so that
we will be able to prove faithful to the end of
our lives.  Reports were then given of the
Relief Society of Gunnison, Manti, Mayfield
and Ephraim.
	Coun. Elizabeth Allred spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva Snow said she felt just as
young in her spirit as she did 40 years ago.
Do we appreciate the blessings we enjoy in 
having the Priesthood with us?  Seek first the

[column 2]

kingdom of God and its righteousness and all
other things shall be added unto you.
	Sister Matheni testified that the Lord would
hear and answer prayers; said woman's work is
great in her sphere.  Be humble and prayer-
ful continually that you may not be led away
from righteousness.
	Sister Tuttle, "I have spent nearly all my
life in this Church.  My heart's desire is to do
good and help in redeeming the dead.  She
then spoke in tongues which was interpreted
by Sister Casto.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson spoke at some length
in regard to the storing of wheat and fast
offering. Other sisters spoke encouraging us
to go on in the work of the Lord. Pres. M
A. P. Hyde spoke of the improvement of the 
sisters in the last few years.  Also of wheat,
famine, diseases and earthquakes.
	Coun. John Maiben encouraged us to per-
severe in well doing.
	Pres. Peterson said we should look after
the young people as they are more apt to go
astray than the older ones.  Choir sang "God
moves in a mysterious way."  Adjourned for 
three months.
	Mary Ann Frantzen, Sec.

MARICOPA.

	Report of the Maricopa Stake Conference
held at Mesa Dec. 12th 1891, Pres. S. M.
Pomeroy presiding.
	There were present C. I. Robson, Bishop
Passey and others of the leading brethren and
sisters.  After the usual exercises, Pres. S. M.
Pomeroy said she regretted the small attend-
ance, thought the extreme cold weather (for
this climate) might be the cause.
	Pres. Barbara Lang said the report of the 
Mesa ward was about the same as last confer-
ence, thought they were moving along towards
the right but some were careless.
	Melissa Hunsaker was surprised at being
called upon to report the Alma ward thought
there must be some good reason for Sister Klei -
man not being present, as she was at her post
when possible, had held their meetings regu-
larly.
	Pres. Susan Savage said the Papago ward
were doing a little better than at last report.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw had a band of good
faithful sisters to labor with in the Nephi ward
with the help of the Lord were doing their
duty.
	Lehi ward not reported.  S. M. Pomeroy
had visited all the wards and found things
moving along well.
	M. A. Hakes rejoiced to meet with the 
sisters,felt that the plan of salvation was broad
enough to take in all honest hearts.
	S. A. Robson, C. Averett and Lovina Brim-
hall made a few timely remarks.
	Brother Noah Brimhall and George F.
Wilson gave some good advice to the sisters as
well as to the saints in general.
	Pres. C. I. Robson was an advocate for short
spirited meetings, said we have had a good 
time together spoke briefly upon the plan of 
salvation and its benefits to the human family;
after singing meeting adjourned for three
months, benediction by N. Brimhall.
						F. E. ROBSON, Sec.

	BEAVER.

Editor Exponent:
	Having had a desire, ever since the union
of the two branches of the R. S. of Beaver
City, to see all the sisters together and think-
ing the anniversary of the first organization of
the R. S. in Beaver (City, Jan. 11, 1868,) an
appropriate time, we accordingly assembled in
the L. D. S. meeting house at 11 o'clock.
	There were present about one hundred and
fifty brethren and sisters, On the stand were

[column 3]

Stake Presidents Charles D. White and M. L.
Shepherd, also Wm. Fotheringham Stake Pres.
of S  S., and Bishop Geo. Mumford, Stake
Pres. Lucinda Howd, local presidency of R. S. 
and portions of Stake presidency of Y. L. and 
Primary Associations.  Pres. R. Tyler presid-
ing; after opening exercises Pres- Tyler stated
the object of the meeting in a few opening re-
marks.  Minutes of first organization and
synopsis of rise and progress of the Society
was read by Sister S. M. Dell.  Addresses by
Sisters M. A. Tanner, L. Howd, D. M. Cox,
H. Fotheringham, J. Bickley and R. W. 
Tyler in their respective positions as the 
different local presidents were next in order.
	An elegant and substantial lunch was next
served after which we were addressed by Presi-
dents White, Shepherd and Fotheringham,
Patriarch D. Tyler and Bishop Mumford.  All
spoke highly of the Society, the good it had
done and was still doing.  The disbursements
for charitable purposes during the last six
months being something over one hundred
dollars.
	Songs and music were furnished by our ever
genial friends Brother R. Stoney and W. G.
Bickley, assisted by May Bickley as organist,
and a string band composed of young men all 
of whom kindly lent their assistance to make 
the occasion an agreeeble one.
	During the lunch and between exercises
kindly greetings were exchanged, and after 
benediction by D. Tyler all dispersed to their
homes feeling they had spent an enjoyable
day.  R. W. Tyler, Pres. Mary A. White and 
Jane Bickley, Counselors; Alice M. T. Tanner
Sec. Louisa Jones, Assist. Sec.

	WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of Wasatch
Stake was held at Midway Sept. 24th, 1891
Pres. Emma Brown presiding.  Conference
commenced at 10.30 with singing by the 
Midway choir "O, awake my slumbering
minstrel." Prayer by Bishop N. C. Murdock
singing "God moves in a mysterious way."
The roll was called 14 Officers present, minutes
of last conference were read and accepted.
Pres. Brown said the Lord has blessed us in
many ways, for while destruction is abroad in
the earth we are blessed with peace and plenty.
The Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society that it might be a blessing to the poor
and needy both temporally and spiritually.
Heber East Ward was then reported by 
Sister Margaret Muir, she said they
had many good sisters in the ward who were
up to their duties, while some were rather
backward; felt thankful to the Lord for health
sufficient to be able to come to conference,
desired the blessings of God to continue with
 us. Sister C. Foreman in reporting Heber West 
Ward said they had testimony and sewing 
meetings and she knew they were blessed of
the Lord, thought she could see a little improve-
ment, felt well in this work and to see so many
present.  Said we should endeavour to instil
principles of truth into the hearts of our
children and try to live so that when the winds
of adversity blow upon us we may be able to 
stand firm and faithful. Wallsburg was re-
ported by Sister Meacham said she esteemed
this a grand privilege to meet with the sisters
in conference, and we should show that we
appreciate the blessings we enjoy by attending
strictly to our duties as members of the Relief
Society; said there were not many that came
to meeting as a rule, but those that do come
have a good time generally; we should set an
example before our children and the world
that is worthy of imitation, if we prove faithful
the Lord will not forsake us.  Conference
adjourned till 2 o'clock.  Benediction by
Elder Robert Lindsay.

	Conference continued at 2 p. m. by singing


[column 1]

﻿"Arise O Glorious Zion,” Prayer by Elder
John Morton, singing "Once more we come 
before our God.” The Stake report was read 
by the Secretary and accepted. Sister 
Guerney in reporting Midway said they had
good meetings and some very instructive read-
ings, some are on hand to do all the good
they can while some others are quite neglect-
ful which she felt to regret; she felt proud to 
be numbered amongst the daughters of our
Father in heaven,desired the Lord to bless us
all and especially our President Sister Brown.
Sister Melisa Murdock reported Charleston
said they hold one meeting at Charleston and
the next at Baysville and they generally have
good attendance and a good time; bore a 
testimony to the truth and expressed a desire
to be counted amongst the faithful. Center
was reported by Sister Cluff; said they have
good meetings and good attendance and some
are on hand to do good while others do not
seem to realize what they lose by their
negligence. We all like to have our homes
fixed comfortable, but we must also attend to 
our duties, the responsibilities of the children
rests upon the mother, so it stands us in hand
to live faithful and set an example before them 
worthy of imitation.
	Sister Brown was pleased with the reports,
advised the sisters to continue in such a good 
cause; was afraid that those who neglected the
golden opportunities offered would be like
the foolish virgins when the Master appears;
we should visit among those who are weak
and tried,and try to do them good; if all were
to attend who are enrolled what a congregation
would be here. It behooves us to be energetic
and alive to our duties that we may obtain the
blessings promised to the faithful. The follow-
ing brethren and sisters then made some very
appropriate remarks and bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the work we are all
engaged in Bishop N. C. Murdock, Sister Ann
Murdock, Sister Greene and Elders Morton,
Lindsay and Raymond. Pres. Brown felt to 
thank all who had taken part and the choir
for the good music rendered after which
conference adjourned to meet in Heber the 
last Thursday in May 1892. Singing
“Beautiful Zion”. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Brown.
HANNA HARBOR, Sec.
____
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The R. S. Conference of the S. L. Stake was
held in the 14th ward Hall on Friday Dec.
18, 1891. Pres. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
Opened with singing “O happy souls who
pray etc.” Prayer by Mrs. Jane Silcock.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice etc.” Roll called
18 Presidents, 8 Counselors and one teacher
responded. Minutes of former conference
read and approved. Pres. Horne made some
excellent remarks, and encouraged the sisters
to persevere in doing good. The wards were 
reported, S, J. Cannon, Farmer’s Ward Sarah
B.Gibson,Sugar House, Emma Terry, Draper, 
E. J. Bodell, Herriman, W. Olson, Sandy,
Agnes Cutler, West Jordan, Jane Silcock,
Riverton, M. E. Porter, Granger, M. A.
Hazon, Brighton, Counselor.------------Bluffdale.
	The meeting was then addressed by Pres.
Jos. E. Taylor, he spoke upon true charity and
benevolence, thought the teachers should look
diligently after those in need; earnestly
beseeched the sisters to exercise faith for the 
sick and afflicted, to inspire them with faith
and confidence, keep the word of wisdom, if 
you do this the sick will be healed by faith,
urged mothers to look  after the purity of 
their boys. Wherever the young mothers
have babies they should take care of their 
children first, then their meetings and instruct-
ing their families.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young entreated the sisters to

[column 2]

cultivate faith, spoke much upon the gift of
healing, and not employing Doctors, trust in 
the Lord He will help us said many other 
good things. Pres. Horne made suitable
closing remarks; singing, ‘‘Our God we raise
to thee etc.” Benediction by Pres. Jos. E.
Taylor. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, Pres. Horne presiding.
Pres. Z. D. H. Young, Counselors Jane S.
Richards, and B. W. Smith, of the general 
presidency of the Relief Society were present
on the stand, Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos.
F. Smith of the First Presidency, also other
ladies upon the platform, Pres. Horne, Coun.
E. S. Taylor, E. Howard, Sec., M. W. Wilcox
Cor. Sec. of the Stake—Sarah M. Kimball,
Sec. and E. B. Wells Cor.Sec. of the Central
Board, and other women prominent in the 
work of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Praise to the
man etc.” prayer by Bathsheba W. Snith'
singing,“We thank thee O, God for a prophet.”
Pres. Horne was very happy to have Presidents
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith present,
and announced that they would speak to the
congregation.
	Pres. Cannon then addressed the meeting
dwelling upon the objects of the organization,
the benefits arising from such institutions,
said when the sisters meet together it is their
privilege to enjoy the spirit to exhort,
admonish, and to help each other to bear the
burdens incident to this life; we had been
called out from the nations to become a united
people, that we might not partake of the 
evils and sins of the world, we are designated
the people of God, only one here and one
there has received the Gospel, the majority of
the world have rejected it; the Lord will
gather out of this people, a people who will 
bear off this kingdom. Look at the great
responsibility that rests upon the mothers to
teach the children; many years of my life have
been spent abroad, therefore my children 
know very little of my influence only thro’ the
influence of their mother. True it is not
always the mother if the father's influence is
wholesome and proper and both are united 
their life and example will influence the
children; upon our children will rest the great
responsibility of carrying on this work, the
time will come, when it will be said, “Let us
go up to Zion to the House of the Lord,” and
that time is coming rapidly; the destiny of 
this work is upward and onward. Our 
children are our hope and though they wander
He will call them back to Him again and
they will be more easily molded to His will
than we are; they will be the expounders of
the truth.
	It will not be possible to bring all men into
the unity of the Gospel until he comes whose
right it is to reign. It is good to have zeal,
zeal in the right direction. It is now nearly 
fifty years since this organization was estab-
lished a great deal of good has been done, by
the sisters in guiding the young,  controling
the fashions, refining and improving society,
in economizing the means that the Lord has
blessed them with, try and teach those whose 
wants you supply to employ their minds to 
take care of themselves, teach them wisdom,
look after the ignorant and the careless, let
your children draw inspiration from you, to
serve God, to be honest, virtuous, pure and
true. This is but a brief synopsis of his
remarks. 
President Jos. F. Smith, “Woman’s sphere
is more important than women know of them-
selves it is only a short time ago that her
position was understood, and her influence on 
the rising generation; on the parents depends
what kind of people the next generation will
be. Mothers influence has been felt by men
to the last of their lives, either for good or
evil; in the majority of cases among us the

[column 3]

mother’s influence is for good; the speaker 
remembered his mother’s teaching him not to
partake of stimulants; mothers should teach
their sons to abstain from these things; and 
should teach her sons virtue and to be pure in
thought it will have its effect on all their after
life, mothers cannot be too careful in example
and precept. Look at the example of 
Helaman the faith of those young men with
him inspire such faith in your children; and
not only your own but it will extend further,
it will have its influence abroad even in
foreign lands,there are many that need a help-
ing hand; there is a wonderful field for you to
work in for culture and advancement, for re-
finement and purity, let us not set our hearts
on riches, and think you are better than those
who have not as much as you, if you use
means wisely, it will prove a medium of do-
ing a great work in educating those who are 
willing to be taught in many ways. Sisters
make your influence felt in the different
associations, yours is a fine mission, there is no
limit to it, you can find the amplest oppor-
tunity to do great things, help in the govern-
ment of families, educating the children is a 
great art, too much indulgence is wrong,
obedience should be taught as a duty to our
children. We have a fine body of children
good, virtuous,and God will bless such a race;
teach them to love virtue more than life; teach
such lessons to your children that if they ever
go astray you will have the satisfaction of
knowing it is not your fault. God bless you 
in all your labors for the good of Zion.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards occupied a short time
in speaking upon the duties and responsibil-
ities devolving upon the members of the
Society and the teachers particularly, gav
good counsel.
	Pres. Horne made a few remarks felt the
presence and teaching of the brethren was en-
couraging, hoped we would take a new start,
urged the sisters to buy wheat with the money
they had on hand donated for that purpose.
	Pres. Cannon added a few words in which 
he said have high ideals before you and bring
yourselves up to them.” Conference adjourned
for three months singing Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Pres. Jos. F. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		119


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	A woman suffrage petition with ten thousand
signatures has been sent into the Parliament
of New Zealand.

	Catherine Cole (Mrs. Field) has in the New
Orleans Picayune an excellent and suggestive
article on "The New Womanhood."
	
	One branch of the Virginia Legislature has
passed a bill authorizing or directing the
appointment of women physicians on the staff
of all insane hospitals where women are among
the patients. This is a humane and sensible
measure, which has been adopted in several
other States.

	The Congressional Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has taken up its headquarters in the
suffrage rooms of Wimodaughsis. Hereafter
Wednesday and Saturday mornings some
member of this Committee will be at work and
will be glad to give information concerning
suffrage work in general or that of their Com-
mittee. All letters in regard to Congressional
or press work should be addressed to Harriet
T. Upton, Wimodaughsis, Washington, D. C.

	"Dr. Mary J. Safford who died recently left
two hundred dollars to the Women's Educa-
tional and Industrial Union of Boston."
	Dr. Safford called at our sanctum in 1857
when on her way to the Pacific Coast and to
visit her brother, who was at that time
Governor of Arizona, and we had a most


interesting interview on general questions
pertaining to woman's advancement, and also
upon the situation in Utah, political, social,
moral and religious. We had the pleasure on
that occasion of introducing her to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and several of the leading men of the
Church, Gen. Wells among others in the
President's office. She was quite a remarkable
woman, specially enthusiastic at that time on
the subject sf dress reform; and believed
intensely in woman's total enfranchisement. ED.
	Miss Kate B. Sears, a young girl who, not
many years ago, came from her home in
Kansas to Boston to study modeling, has origi-
nated and developed a new idea in creamic
art. After her study in Boston, she went to
the potteries in Trenton, N. J., to experiment
with modeling as applied to pottery. She
conceived the idea of carving a design into the
dry ware before it was fired. As there were
no tools to aid in the process, she used a pen-
knife, and has carved several pieces. It was
not easy to touch firmly enough to cut the
ware and yet not to crush it, for in that state
it is fragile as a bit of hollow chalk. Each
time the success was more distinctive. The
effect of the work when done and fired,
especially when the pieces are lighted from
within, is that of moonlight falling on the ob-
jects represented. The character of the figures
portrayed is admirably adapted to this treat-
ment. There are cupids and fays and delicate
up-springing figures that are part flowers and
part fairies. And so great is the artistic suc-
cess of the new work that Miss Sears' name is
already spoken of as the designer of a distinc-
tively new and original piece of pottery.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REST A LITTLE.

	Good mother, maker of numerous pies,
mender of numerous hose, overseer of a great
province—a household, rest a little. Have a
chair by the stove, and when you peep into
the oven, sit while you look, yea, even a
moment after; you will work all the faster
for the short change of posture. While mend-
ing have your chair in the coziest corner
where good light will come in and let the sun
strike upon you if possible, so that you may
get the strengthening, health-giving influence
of it. Drop your hands occsasionally and let
them rest. Let your eyes wander out through
the window glass as far as possible, and rest
your eyes by looking at something interesting
out of doors. Don't rule all the time. Drop
the reins of household government for a little
while, unbend yourself and sit down on the
rug and play with the children, and as it were
become again a child.
	Economize your strength. Sit when you
can. Do not hold the baby when it can rest
and grow just as well in its crib. By resting
when you can, by planning the work to be done
and by being systematic and orderly in all
things a woman's work at home is more easily
done.—Living Issues.


A party in honor of Susen B. Anthony's
birthday will be given in this City tonight.


[column 1]
MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
OFFICE.—324, 325 Third Floor, Constitution Building
HOURS.—8 to 10 a. m., 4 to 6 p. m.
	
[column 2]
THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE,
Edited and published weekly at Washington,
	D. C., by CLARA BEWICK COLBY.
Price, $1.00 a year. Trial Subscriptions, five
	weeks for 10 cents. .
The Woman's Journal, of Boston, and the Woman's Tri-
	bune, of Washington, D. C., will be sent to one ad-
	dress for $3.00 per year.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

THE 
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. O. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.		Supt.		G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	DAVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


GONE TO REST.

	On the 18th of Nov. 1891, we were called to lay in the
silent tomb our much esteemed sister Amanda Dana,
whose death was caused through typhoid fever.
	She was the daughter of Morris and Sarah Phelps was
born in Utah Apr. 27th 1854.
	On the first of Nov. 1869 she was married to Bro George
C. Dana, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was, for several
years, an energetic laborer in the Primary Association, and
a faithful teacher in the Relief Society at the time of her
demise.


She was a devoted mother, a loving wife and a true
Latter-Day Saint.
	She was the mother of eight children, five of whom are
living and, with their father and a large circle of friends
mourn her loss.
			MARY E. B. FARR
	St. Johns, Ariz.


LOIS HAMBLIN BURK.

	To the memory of Lois Burk who died at her residence,
under very painful circumstances, in Alpine Apache Co.,
Arizona, Aug. 1891. She was the daughter of the late
Jacob and his wife Rachel Hamblin, and the wife of
Hubert R. Burk; and was born in Tooele Co. Utah June
15, 1851 aged 40 yrs. 2 mon. and 15 days at the time of
her death she was the mother of ten children, six of whom
preceded her to the "better world." The last, an infant
daughter, sleeps sweetly with its mother.
	Sister Lois was a true wife and mother and consistent
Latter- Day Saint. She was an active worker in the
Sabbath School, and Relief Society having held the office
of counselor in the Society for a number of years.
	In short she was a true woman, and bore her many
trials with meekness and fortitude.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from our
midst our esteemed sister, therefore be it
	Resolved—that in her death, we the members of the
Relief Society recognize the loss of a faithful and zealous
co-worker.
	Resolved—that we extend our sympathy to the bereaved
husband and children, who have been deprived of a
devoted wife and tender mother.
	Resolved—that a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the sorrowing family, also published in the EXPONENT
and a copy be placed on the records of our Society. 

Dear Lois on earth your sufferings are o'er,
You've met the the lov'd ones on the "Beautiful Shore",
While bereaved ones repine, Oh sweet be thy rest
Father help us to bow to Thy righteous behest.
			JANE NOBLE.
			VIOLA HATCH.


TO THE MEMORY OF LOUISA SMITH
PARK.

	Sister Park departed this life Oct. 26th 1891. She was
the presiding teacher of the Relief Society of the 2nd Ward
in Provo City.
	Our beloved Sister after a life of toil and usefulness, has
paid the debt of nature, and gone to her rest in the great
beyond, we acknowledge the debt to be the wise decree
of the Almighty upon all in our probation here, and while
we do not regret the change on her part, as she was fully
prepared, by her well spent life, still we miss her kindly
presence and influence at our meetings.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore be it;
	Resolved—that while we feel sad in our loss by this
separation from our sister,—We remember her wise
counsels and practical faith in her religion and her God,
which has so often in its manifestation brought joy to our
hearts. Her words of comfort and exhortatfon with their
prophetic fire still fill our minds with admiration for this
our good and well beloved sister.
	Resolved—that we strive to emulate her faith, her good
works, and follow the good, example of her active and
well spent life.
	Resolved—that we congratulate the sons and daughters
of the deceased on the pattern of a noble life that their
mother has left them, and bid them follow on in the path
she trod.
	Resolved—that these resolutions be spread upon the
Records of the Relief Society of the 2nd Ward and also
published in the Utah Enquirer, Despatch and EXPONENT.
			SARAH HONES,
			JOSEPHINE LOVELESS,
			ELIZABETH D. BROWN,
			SARAH ANN JONES,
				Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

