VOL. 20.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1892.	NO. 24. 23


CONTENTS.

	A Day In Heidelberg—A. W. C. In Rural Eng-
land—A Story. Courtesy—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
Anniversary at Pleasant Green.	Something
About Voting—Annie C. Hindley. "Will Ye Go
Away?"—Mary Y. Corby. Woman's National
Council—Rachel Foster Avery. 	Compensation.
Gleanings. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—This, That, And The Other.
The Men and Women We Met, In San Francisco.
Editorial Notes. Interesting Letter—Florence
Balgarnie. An Interesting Journey.
	POETRY:—Wild Flowers to Sarah—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. In Memoriam—Emily Browne
Powell. Spring—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. If
Mother Would Listen—Margaret E. Sangster.


WILD FLOWERS TO SARAH,

		AN INVALID FRIEND.

	Heart's beloved ! to you I send
		Greeting from the canyon's shade,
	Gathered where the branches bend
		And streams with light o'erlaid;
	Where the birds in sweetest chorus
		Sing their message with my heart,
	And the flowers baeathe their kisses
		In sweet odors for their part.

	All the waters, rippling. leaping,
		In their haste and in their calm,
	Fresh as life and bright with sunbeams,
		Send to you their healing balm;
	All the silence, like sweet prayers
		And the mountains' sense of might,
	With the strength of pine and cedars,
		All, their spell of health unite.

	Could I bring you to their presence,
		Surely, Nature might surpass
	All the feeble skill of science
		And your lips would smile at last,
	For the moment all forgetting
		Present pains and tender fears—
	You would live with eyes and senses
		That belonged to childhood's years.

	Close thine eyes, beloved and wander
		In thy fancy where once grew
	Leafy arch, and flow'ry meadow,
		Bending. blooming, all for you;
	When your heart knew nothing grayer
		Than sweet childhood's duties small,
	And thy world's thy life's fair ranges
		Were within thy mother's call.

	Questions great thou hadst not pondered,
		Trials had not met thee then,
	Yet thy life was fair as morning—
		As though ills had never been,
	Now, o'er all the time and distance
		And its record, thou may'st smile,
	As in childhood, for God's angels
		Have been with thee all the while.

	Though thy bloom of youth hath faded,
		In their stead thy soul hath raised
	Graces that will live forever
		And in memory be praised.

	Take my off'ring small and lowly,
		And perhaps thy soul may hear
	All the sounds and all the whispers
		That are gathered 'round us here.

	Leafy branches proffer shelter
		From the wind and from the sun,
	And the green sward calls your footsteps
		Where the brightest waters run;
	
[Column 2]
	Creeping vines and berry branches
		Send you word of what they'll bear,
	And the flowers would smile to wither
		In your hands so slight and fair.

	Would this little page might bear thee
		All the beauty spring bestows,
	Where the mossy rocks are shaded
		By wild cherry blooms and rose;
	Would I might divide my freedom
		In these rambles, dear, with thee,
	And thy steps with mine discover
		All there is to hear and see.
	
	Until then, I will bear with me
		Thoughts of what thy lips would say,
	And with poet's own delusion
		Be thy guide along the way.

	When thy hands and eyes are weary
		And thou turnest to thy sleep,
	Let one thought for gift and giver
		Place amid thy dreaming keep.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, May, 1892.


A DAY IN HEIDELBERG.

	In all things, music, art, fiction, tragedy,
poetry, history, and religion, there is a grand
climax. This acme is advanced and receded
by many ways, byways and channels, all
pointing to the one grand center, with their
trills and variations, their mellow tints, lights
and shades; their descriptive and romantic
scenes; their intrigues and ambitions; their
metaphors and gentle rhyming; their sorrows,
trials, labor and their gallantry; their prayers,
faith and convictions. How beautiful is the fact
that one attains this acme by gentle and fasci-
nating approaches, then it charms. How sad
if the grandest height came suddenly upon
one, it could only terrify. The sublime
symphony that pervades an oratirio through
its introduction,recitatives,airs, solos, choruses,
thrills and enchants the soul until one is pre-
pared to appreciate and delight in the grand
finale. Just so by gentle approaches and by
ways the writer decided to appreciate and en-
joy the quaint and historical city and castle of
Heidelberg. 'Twas a warm, pleasant day in
March as we left Karlsruhe, the beautiful
capital of Baden, and traversed the pretty
country shaded by the hills and mountains of
the Black Forest. The fields were green, the
orchards were assuming their Spring time
garb of leaves and sweet blossoms, women and
children were working in the vineyards
straightening and uncovering the vines. The
ride was enchanting, passing now and then a
pretty village with its white church steeple
towering above the houses and pointing to the
heavens as a signal of hope, and past the silent
green grave yards, where some beloved ones
are sleeping for ever more, even past the grave
of Fredrika Brion, Goethe's early love, past
many ruins and castles each with its own
peculiar legend, along miles of country skirted
by the Black Forest and the great mountain
Feldberg looming like a monarch above them
all. Approaching Heidelberg along the historic
Neckar viewing castles ruined and restored,
one is almost prepared for the solemn and
magnificent spectacle of the quaint and
crooked city guarded by the grandest ruin in
the German empire; but first gaze on the
gently sloping hills on the opposite shore
where large trees with their expanding boughs
shade the memorable path known as the philo-

[Column 2]
sophers' way; how many great minds have
conned their lessons, and composed their life's
work while treading that beautiful path. At
length when the handsome old bridge con-
structed more than a century ago by Charles
Theodore is reached, then we turn our faces
to the right and behold the grandest sight of
all-the castle-the climax of the day is
reached and for moments I stood apart breath-
less, silently admiring and devouring the scene.
'Twas early evening and the sun's last rays
were tinting the rounded towers with a golden
glow. All else lay in the shade, a gloomy
massive pile, barren of all ornament save the
ivy vines and slender ferns that cling tenderly
to its dark and sombre walls. A monument
on the hillside commemorating ages of daring
deeds, of chivalry, of romance and of splendor.
The city streets are narrow and crooked, the
buildings tall and old and dark,and so shading
the streets that it is a positive relief to enter the
principal promenade, the Anlage where the
walks and drives are broader, and there among
the border shrubs and trees are pretty rustic
seats where one can watch the fashionable
ladies, the children with their nurses, the
pretty girls with their staid chaperones, and
the gaily attired students strolling, riding,
bicycle riding. One almost shudders at the
sight of the scarred faces of the students and
wonders how so dreadful a practice as dueling
can be so popular among intelligent men, and
yet the students were none of them very young
and of course must be learned to belong to the
great university Ruperto Carola of Heidelberg,
known as the Cradle of Science of Germany,
and the third oldest in the empire.
	The city assumed a quiet aspect as night
came on and the great stone pile on the hillside
seemed more sombre and gloomy than ever,
and yet in the days of its glory, when the
home of kings and queens,how lovely it must
have appeared at night with its brilliant lights
shining through the hundreds of windows.
'Twas then as a sentinel guarding the city.
'Tis now but a monument of the past. In the
early morning as the sun just kissed the moun-
tain peaks, and the birds their matins sung, we
were leisurely walking up the long, narrow
path by the outer wall,—a path densely
shaded with grand old trees on one side and
the high massive wall hung with ivy on the
other. Reaching the castle grounds a winding
path leads to the entrance facing the town-
where from the terraced grounds one can view
the entire city with the majestic heights sur-
rounding it, and beyond, the vast plain watered
by the Rhine. Reaching the castle the elegant
palace of Frederic IV. confronts one. It re-
sembles in design work of the Renaissance,
though it was built in the sixteenth century.
Between each of the mullioned windows are
niches each of which contains a statue; this is
the best preserved outer part of the whole
castle and was the finest and most elaborate,
and the interior was finished in the same style,
but now the walls are all barren of ornament,
only occasional fragments of sculpture to be
seen. Wandering through low arched halls,
stopping occasionally to look through the
windows into the gardens and over the city
now assuming a brighter, busier appearance
with the advance of day, we reached the
castle court yard where broken statues and
silent fountains sadly tell of past beauty.
The front of the Otto Frederick castle, facing
the court is finer than the outer wall and


the stone steps before the entrance still
though somewhat broken retain some of their
elegance.  From the tower of this palace the
view is enchanting, extending far over the
Rhine Valley.  Through long halls and rooms,
round and square, large and small,all alike in
their barrenness,we reached the English palace,
which was built for the Princess Elizabeth,
daughter of James the First and Anne, and
wife of the Winter King, Frederick, Elector
Palatine.  This poor princess had many sor-
rows and afflictions though she was so beloved 
by her friends as to be called the “Queen of
Hearts.”  The rooms to this wing are smaller
and the windows are long and pleasanter than
in other parts of the castle, and the apartments
when furnished must have been more home
like to an English Princess.  In the corner of
this wing is a round massive tower known as
the Dicke Thurm, (Thick Tower), its walls are
twenty-seven feet thick along the upper walls.
We walked to the corner where the broken
tower forms now the most picturesque part of
the castle.  When Melac the French com-
mander tried to blow up the castle, after
several attempts all he succeeded in doing was
to break in half this massive tower, and now,
more than two centuries after, one part stands
erect as ever while the other lies on its side in
the moat below covered with beautiful ferns
and clinging ivy.  Some rooms in the castle
in the front overlooking the city are well pre-
served and inhabited, and in the large halls
are kept relics of the castle, pictures, vases,
swords, et cetera.  Among the relics are
pictures of the life of the young student Sand
who drew the fatal number to kill Kotzebue, a
professor who had displeased the students by
some of his writings. Sand was taken to
Mannheim, tried and beheaded for this deed.
	Reluctantly, yet with a sensation of relief
from the oppressive sadness of the old castle,
we turn again into the gardens and from
different positions view the sombre structure.
The paths and the walks are winding and en-
chanting, and the views obtained from the 
heights are beyond description.  The rays of
the setting sun shone on the ramparts and the
shadows lay dark and dense around the
vaulted walls as we again entered the shaded
path, this time with the castle behind us.
Thus ended a day in Heidelberg.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XV.
	With a champion like Clair, Lady Anna
was not likely to be neglected without its be-
ing resented, and Clair felt not only a sincere
affection for his sister, but he was determined
that Maitland Walton should be left without
excuse.
	After his departure from the interview with
Lady Walton she reviewed the past, as she had
been much in the habit of doing especially since
Sir Edward’s death; she was not particularly
amiable in the strict sense of the word, and
she had been left so entirely to herself during
her married life and had been such a favorite
in society, that she had not taken many lessons
in self-denial; indeed she had indulged in the
idea, that because she had made one great
sacrifice, (and that from compulsion) nothing
more ought ever to be required. Therefore
she had floated along with the current of
pleasure and of fashion, until her son, the idol
of her life, had confided to her his secret, which
had fallen on her like a thunderbolt, when
she ascertained that the girl be loved so wild-
ly, was the daughter of one, who had jilted her
and been the cause of her secret sorrow; she
knew not what course to pursue though much
of it came from wounded pride; now and again
she reflected within herself as to what was to

[Column 2]
be done, for to whom could she go how could
she tell her husband that Maitland had fall-
en in love with the daughter of his old enemy;
would he not at once conjecture that there had
been some association between the Baronet and
herself that had led to it, and without his
knowledge; whereas she had never by word
or deed, or in thought been false to him; until
Maitland had forced her almost to go to Sir.
Edward that night to plead his cause, she
had not looked upon his face; and had not fate
done this; was it her fault? and so she sat
wondering what course to take until the
silence seemed to her unbearable,still she was
unresolved, why should this boy, come into
her life, and speak to her with so much im-
petuosity, why had these chldren of Sir Ed-
ward’s forced themselves as it were upon her
notice what curious train of unknown causes
had produced this effect? was her life so
mysteriously interwoven with that of Sir Ed-
ward’s that though he was dead, she could
not rid herself of the past, nor of the living
present; of his children, for whom he himself
had never cared or manifested even ordinary
affection, scarcely acknowledged?
	These were the self questionings that passed
through her mind, and indeed it does seem
sometimes that there is a mysterious weaving
together of fine spun lines that entangle us, or
an under current that flows into certain lives
and draws them unconsciously to each other,
and who shall declare that this is not true?
	Lady Walton was restless, dissatisfied with
herself, she could not bear to have her hus-
band think ill of her for a single day, “Mait-
land shall speak for himself,” she exclaimed
aloud, as her husband entered the room un-
observed, repeating the words she had uttered,
“and about what, and to whom my dear, you
seem very much disturbed, what means this
agitation?” Lady Walton lost her self control
momentarily, and the hot tears coursed down
her cheeks.
	“What has our boy been doing now to cause
your unhappiness, it is not his delicate health
this time, he seems robust and well
since his return from Italy, is it a love affair,
speak out Helen surely you can have no
concealments from me!”
	“YesHenry it is a love affair of a very seri-
ous nature, and the boy cannot be persuaded
to give it up.”
	“Who is this girl or woman then that you
do not approve of the boy’s choice?” “I have
not said I did not approve of it, you know how
young Maitland is, and we had not expected
him to choose without our knowledge.”
	“Boys will be boys, and this is possibly a
mere fancy, I will talk to him; if the girl is
of good family and accomplished, even if she
is not a beauty, it may be all right, but tell me
Helen who is she, what are her special at-
tractions, and where did this fastidious boy
of ours meet her?”
	“I scarcely know myself how or where he
first met her, it seems to have been his fate, he
must have seen her accidentally somewhere
and fallen in love with her at first sight.”
	“But Lady Walton,” said her husband,
“you are evasive tell me her name? surely you
know it, he has no secrets from his mother I
warrant me,he makes youhis confidente no doubt.
	“Her name is Anna Hlliard,” replied the
lady, knowing there was no escape from the
questioning, by the imperative manner in
which he last addressed her. Lord Walton
looked at his wife a moment in silence, she
sat perfectly quiet, “and do you know this
girl?” he asked. ‘‘No I have met her only
once, I called as was my duty I thought upon
the family after the Baronet’s death.” “Is that
all you have to say, were you aware then that
Maitland was in love with the girl? Tell me
frankly Helen was this what took him to the
continent?”

[Column 3]
	Lord Walton made this last inquiry in a
milder tone, calling his wife by her given
name indicating a softer manner.
	“I think so.” You knew it undoubtedly;
then it was love-sickness ailed the boy;—men
do not die of that, you need not have been
alarmed, but I will see to this matter, lucky I
came in, when you were soliloquizing; how
long then was I to be kept in ignorance of my
son’s doings? until some neighborhood gossip
reached me I presume. Our lives do not seem
to run very close together of late”—“Whose
fault is it?” retorted Lady Walton,“when have
you confided anything to me, or even cared to
tell me where, or how you spent your time
when away” and then she broke down utter-
ly, and her maid was summoned; Lord Walton
walking off in a towering passion, to think she
should have reproved him in the least, and all
the time deceiving him about his own son; and
as he went he muttered between his clenched
teeth, “in love, with that rascally old man’s
daughter, my son, and the heir of Walton
Hall, and these fine estates; by Jove I’ll see
what the girl is like before I sleep,’’and hasten-
ing along he called to a groom to get his horse
ready for a canter across the fields.
	Once on horse back in the exhilarating air
of a fine summer day his passion subsided,
and he enjoyed the ride as he took his way to
the enemy’s fresh fields, new to him, for it had
been many a year since he had entered the
grounds he was now approaching; he did not go
as an intruder, however, but boldly as one
with a purpose in view. Coming in sight of
the castle along the highway, who should he
meet but Dr. Bland riding at a rapid pace,
and as he came near he reined in his horse,
and spoke though he scarcely had a speaking
acquaintance. The Doctor knew Lord Walton
well by sight and guessed something of his
errand and was therefore willing to be
questioned. After exchanging salutations Lord
Walton asked the doctor if he would return
to the castle and introduce him to the family.
The doctor consented notwithstanding he had
been on the way to visit a patient, he could
wait awhile, this was a duty he felt, for Lady
Anna was far from well and she too was a
patient of his as well as his ward, and he knew
Lord Walton to be a man of fiery temper and
unscrupulous in character. As the two gentle-
men rode along, Lord Walton said, “by the
way Sir Edward has a niece at the house, I am
told, who is a most clever and sensible young
person, very unlike other women; quite a re-
markable character, she must be a very ex-
cellent companion for Miss Hilliard, you I
suppose are well acquainted with her:” “I am
the guardian of her cousin, and as business
takes me to the castle often, and also the
practice of my profession, I have seen the
young lady to whom you refer quite frequent-
ly.”
	“The fact is Dr. Bland I would like to
speak to Miss Conway (I believe that is the
lady’s name) my business is with Miss Hill-
iard, but I might manage it better through
her cousin.”
	“I could advise you better if I knew the
nature of your errand,” replied the cool head-
ed doctor.
	“Well I may as well tell you as you are her
guardian it is right you should know, she’s in
love with my son, and as we have never been
on friendly terms with Sir Edward for more
than thirty years its a very awkward affair.”
	“But Sir Edward is dead” replied the doc-
tor, with his usual self-possession not adding
any other explanation.
	“Of course he’s dead but we could never
think of uniting the two families by marriage,
think of our never having spoken for a whole
generation.”
	“If he were living you would not have call-
ed I presume?” Inquired the doctor looking


C. W. P. A. and exchange ideas and be mutually
benefitted. It was really an enjoyable affair and
we were much interested in meeting for the first
time the talented and attractive Miss Keith (Di
Vernon) of whom the papers have had consider-
able to say of late, which proves she is worth
talking about. Another lady editor who drew
out our sympathy as well as our sincere admira-
tion was Mrs. Laura E. Foute of San Antonio,
Texas. She is one of those sweet-mannered,
highly polished and attractive Southern women,
that call out your tenderest affections, and make
you feel akin. Her magazine is The Gulf Messen-
ger, and withal she has a great ambition, which is
to make it the magazine of the Gulf states, and
with all our heart we wish she may succeed in do-
ing so.
	Mrs. Virginia Lull was really the centre of at-
traction of the evening,all things considered, and
as she lives in Chicago and has been doing news-
paper work there for a number of years, we were
all delighted to hear her talk. She is well posted
in all the questions of the day and her witty man-
ner of telling things was very amusing.
	Miss Minna V. Lewis seems to be the pet of
the association, and she is very charming,a sensi-
tive, delicate, little creature with bright eyes and
an expression of tenderness in them, as though
she could “weep for others’ woes;” but she must
have place in another article, also Florence
Mathesen, who is the daughter of the celebrated
Elizabeth Akers Allen of poetry, song, and story
fame, who wrote many years for Godey’s Lady’s
Book and other popular works,but who is beloved
everywhere through the well-known song,

	“Rock me to sleep mother, Rock me to sleep.”

also Mrs. D’Evelyn, Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, and
her Sunday Bible Class and Mrs. Hannah Neall,
and others. 
	The drive to the beach and the Presidio too
will come in at another time, and the visit to our
quarters, the office of the EXPONENT, of some of
the returning editorial party. Quite a number of
the people we met, men and women, are not yet
mentioned and we shall take great pleasure in
writing them up for the delectation of our read-
ers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

		EMILIE TRACY Y. PARKHURST.

"My name is Life," a radiant angel said;
	"I bring the sacred bliss of motherhood;"
Then turned to go his Heavenward way, when, lo !
	Another angel on the threshold stood.

Before the awful glory of that face,
	The bright first comer bowed his shining head.
"The smiles that welcomed me must melt in tears,
	Since thou art here, O, Brother Death!" he said.

'Mid twilight's gathering gloom Death entered there;
	Whispered, "The Master calls thee 'Come up higher.'"
Closed to all earthly things, the earnest eyes;
	And set his seal upon the lips of fire.

"She is not dead, but sleeping," saith the Lord,
	But tears are falling like the summer rain
For her, who, wearing woman's crown of love,
	Sank 'neath the weight of woman's cross of pain.
							EMILY BROWNE POWELL.
	The Californian Illustrated Magazine.


SPRING.

	M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

The meads are clad in verdure,
	The woods resound with song;
The air is filled with perfume
	By zephyrs borne along;
The pink tipped, star eyed, daisies,
	Ope at the morning’s glow,
And the bubbling brook asks softly,
	"Why don’t you Maying go?”
  
The cowslip shakes her golden bells
	Beneath the hawthorn's shade,
And every blushing floweret tells
	How Flora decks the glade.
Listen! each shrub and bramble, 
	Are asking us to come,
And 'mid their wild haunts ramble,
	Or on the hill sides roam.
The blue bell nods her azure head
	With every fluttering breeze,
And Columbines in glowing red,
	Bask neath the tamarack trees,
The gay wild Prairie beauties,
	Their dainty charms disclose
When May resumes her duties
	And heralds in June's rose,
Then larkspurs rear their purple heads,
	And butter-cups in gold array
Smile on the blue forget me not,
	And whisper “This is joyous May.’’


IF MOTHER WOULD LISTEN.

	BY MARGARET E. SANGSTER.

If mother would listen to me, dears,
	She would freshen that faded gown;
She would sometimes take an hour's rest,
	And sometimes a trip to town.
And it shouldn’t be all for the children,
	The fun, and the cheer, and the play;
With the patient droop on the tired mouth,
	And the "Mother has had her day !"

True, mother has had her day, dears,
	When you were her babies three,
And she stepped about the farm and the house,
	As busy as ever a bee.
When she rocked you all to sleep, dears,
	And sent you all to school,
And wore herself out, and did without,
	And lived by the Golden Rule.

And so your turn has come, dears, 
	Her hair is growing white:
And her eyes are gaining that far-away look
	That peers beyond the night.
One of these days, in the morning
	Mother will not be here:
She will fade away into silence;
	The mother so true and dear.

Then, what will you do in the daylight,
	And what in the gloaming dim?
And father, tired and lonesome then,
	Pray, what will you do for him?
If you want to keep your mother,
	You must make her rest today
Must give her a share in the frolic,
And draw her into the play.

And, if mother would listen to me, dears,
	She'd buy her a gown of silk,
With buttons of royal velvet,
	And ruffles as white as milk:
And she'd let you do the trotting,
	While she sat still in her chair:
That mother should have it hard all through,
	It strikes me isn’t fair.


[Column 1]

﻿COURTESY.

	We have frequently heard the question
asked, "What is Courtesy?" and have been
surprised, at first, to hear the query put, but
on farther study, our surprise has vanished.
We have found it mistaken for politeness, and
vica versa. And yet how simple, and distinct
its definition. Courtesy is the destinctive
mark of a refined and cultivated mind, it is
the attribute by which we may recognize the
true lady,or gentleman. It is the characteristic
of the well bred, and kind hearted of all
nations, tribes and people, it is the true index
of a good mind. It is the oil in the machinery
of social life. It is necessary for comfort, and
tends to foster happiness. Courteous words
sweeten life, and a courteous demeanour en-
hances its pleasures. It hides many imperfec-
tions and protects the possessor from many
dangers. Courtesy is calculated to win hearts
and the lack of it to lose them; and the closer
one’s intimacy with a person is, the more need-
ful does the exercise of tact, and courtesy be-
come. Courtesy is never the result of a school
education. It springs from an innate purity
of soul. Pure courtesy is often met with in
those who are entirely uneducated, these are
natures noblemen, and women.
	We have read, and heard, of highly edu-
cated and gifted men, who seemed unable to
be courteous to any one, and they were voted
as boors in society. And yet it can be, and
often is, cultivated, and those in whom it is
found either as a product of their nature, or
as an acquired quality, are the gems and orna-
ments of society, while they who are without
it, are but little sought after, and are often

[Column 2]

shunned. Courtesy is never a burden to its
possessor, and will help to make life's path
easier to travel than any other virtue, except
honesty and truth.
	Of all poverty stricken contradictions the
person who does not possess the quality of
courtesy is the poorest.
	Without courtesy the best actions of our
lives are not appreciated, because the manner
of performing them is not in keeping with the
actions. The courtesy of the heart is allied to
love, from it springs the purest courtesy in the
outward behavior. As the best metal is the
most flexible, so the truly generous hearted,
are the most courteous to inferiors, and those
who are courteous to all, receive much more
honor, than those whom they honor. 
	Again, there are studied courtesies in which
sincerity and truth, have no part, and these
tend to break up, and eliminate every element
of true friendship.
	There are people who profess to be too inde-
pendent to study even the smallest courtesies
They will enter a room or a public place in
an abrupt manner, sit in the rudest attitudes,
pay no apparent attention to those who may
be speaking, and in conversation themselves,
show no respect to those around them. They
do not understand, that there is not one of our
attributes, one of our employments, nor one of
our states of mind which is not as significant
could we interpret it, as holy writ, though not
as instructive. To each of us God has given
talents to be improved by cultivation,and care,
nothing that comes from him can be ignoble
or small, nothing worthless if cultivated as his
gift. This is one of the most helpful thoughts
we get of ourselves, and should teach us how
necess[--] it is to cultivate every grain of the
beautiful seed that nature has given us, then
thoughts will break out into leaf, feelings into
blossoms, a single day may make the whole
heart like a woodland, when the foliage of
sweet and refined thought first appears, the
weeds will not be seen amid the flowers. We
may never be called to leave the sacred pre-
cincts of home, yet there we should cultivate
every grace, and talent, so that we may shed
brightness, and joy upon our nearest and
dearest.
	It is a blessed thing to feel that we are
wanted in life, that we are not like a solitary
speck of sand, upon the great Sahara of the
world, but are a part of a great and glorious
whole, where each individual soul has its own
appointed place, and which we are expected to
perfect ourselves to fill; to devote ourselves
to the bliss of the Divine life by the beautiful
apostolate of kindness, and courtesy. Courtesy
is a fortune in itself; a courteous man often
succeeds in life where men of much greater
ability fail. The history of every country
furnishes instances where courteous manners
have made the fortunes of lawyers, divines
physicians, politicians, and indeed, individuals
of all pursuits. Of two men equal in all other
respects, the courteous one has twice the ad-
vantages, and by far the better chance of mak-
his way in the world.
	Our first introduction to a stranger, their
affability or the reverse, creates a preposses-
sion in their favor, or awakens unconsciously
a prejudice against them.
	Courtesy is a general passport to favor a
letter of recommendation written in a language
which every person can read and understand.
		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


Miss. Louise Francis, of Castroville, Cal., has
a valuable piece of property in her daily news-
paper, the Enterprise.  Miss Francis is tall,
rather slim and has beautiful hair and eyes.
Her work is marked by common sense, ac-
curacy and a complete knowledge of her sub-
jects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
           		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1892.


THIS, THAT, AND THE OTHER.

	The national editorial party has left the Pacific
Coast, some of them going in one direction and
some in another; a part of the excursion go to
Salt Lake City; some of them via Portland and
the Northern country, and others, in a more
easterly direction, expecting to take in the various
sights and wonders, and look up the Great West
generally.
	Here in San Francisco the weather is pleasant
and the air delightful, with the fragrance of buds
and blossoms.  One can scarcely express the ad-
miration awakened by the floral beauties of this
garden of the world.  It is necessary to see for
one's self in order to believe, for no description
given can do justice to the subject.  Poets may
write, and artists may paint in glowing colors, but
"seeing is believing," for none of these however
clever can approach the reality.
	After going out to the beach and spending a
day there, which is the only relaxation we can
take time to indulge in, then we will turn home-
ward not from choice, for there is much still to
be seen that would be very desirable, only editors
must be at their post of duty and not away float-
ing with the tide of pleasure, or of circumstances.
One gets much material for use even in a short
trip to this Coast, for there is so much that is
new and suggestive and the newspapers, if one
can but take the time to glance through them, O,
dear,—the startling newsey news.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association
is what interests us most of all here, and the
ladies are doing good work in many ways.  The
President' Mrs. Nellie Blessing Eyster, the new
Cor. Sec'y Mrs. Hannah Neall, the Recording
Sec'y. Mrs. F. W. D'Eveyn, and the Treasurer
Mrs. Florence Percy Mathesen with the Ex. Com.
all seem to be very efficient and full of hope, as
well as abounding in energy, and with such able
women as Mrs. Alice Carey Waterman and Miss
Minna V. Lewis, Miss Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
and others associated in their work, they must
make a success of any laudable undertaking.
They are warm-hearted, generous, and hospitable,
clever, witty and amiable. Mrs. Mathesen was a
Maine girl and talks of her native state enthusi-
astically.  She is arranging to issue very soon a
volume of poems of Pacific Coast writers, which
promises to be an interesting work.  The lady is
a poet herself as well as a story writer and writes
for Phila. Saturday Evening Post, Leslie's Illus-
trated Weekly, Portland Transcript, Wide Awake,
Metropolitan and other journals.
	Miss Lewis is a correspondent of the Business
Woman's Journal, N. Y. Newspaperdom, Kate
Field's Washington, Harper's Bazar, Californian
Illustrated, and the Home Maker. Mrs. D'Evelyn
(Kate Mc'Bride) writes for the Victoria College
Magazine, and Chicago Womad's News. Mrs.


Emily Browne Powell writes for the N. Y. Tri-
bune, Boston American Union, Ladies Home
Journal, of Phila., Springfield Daily Union,
Californian Illustrated, and local papers.  Mrs.
Waterman keeps her own counsel in regard to
her newspaper work and we have not yet ascer-
tained what papers she contributes to, but she is
a wide awake, earnest young woman, very inter-
esting in conversation.  Mrs. Maggie Downing
Brainard, of San Jose, is a typical Southern wo-
man, reminds one very much of Mrs. Willmirth
East, is from Mississippi and decidedly clever,
she is Ass’t editor of Santa Clara Valley Monthly,
correspondent to Clarion Ledger, Raymond Gazette
and Natchez Banner, (all of Mississippi.
	San Francisco, May 27, 1892.


[Column 1]

﻿THE MEN AND WOMEN WE MET.

IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	On the afternoon of Tuesday May 24, Dr. Alice
B. Stockham and her daughter Miss Cora Stock-
ham tendered a reception to the ladies engaged
in the Kindergarten work, the Pacific Coast Wo-
man's Press Association, and the visiting ladies
of the editorial party at the parlors of the Palace
Hotel. Miss Stockham is a lovely young woman,
her very presence is like an inspiration and one
can readily believe what Mrs. Stockham has
stated that her daughter was her inspiration in
preparing her work on Tokology. This valuable
work has been widely circulated in Utah; and
is the most complete work of the kind we have
ever examined.
	We had the pleasure of going to the reception
with Mrs. Waterman, Miss Lewis, Mrs, D'Evelyn,
and Mrs. Mathesen of the P. C. W. P. A. Miss
Stockham received the ladies in the most graceful
and charming way, though her mother had not yet
returned from her trip around the bay with the
editorial party, but came in later, looking very
weary, though in excellent spirits and full of ani-
mation. Mrs. Eyster, of San Francisco, Mrs.
Sarah Wilder Pratt, of Chicago were with her,
also some others; Mrs. Pratt is not only a writer
for the press, but is an ordained minister of
Christian Science and fills several important
positions in Women's Clubs etc., all the ladies
were rather tired as they had been traveling so long
and seeing so much.
	Dr. Stockham had just returned from a trip to
Japan and of course every one was anxious to
hear of that wonderful far-off country; she has
brought with her many interesting curiosities, as
well as a great deal of information, which she will
disseminate for the benefit of the women of her
country, as she is a very pleasing and interesting
writer and story teller.
	The same evening the Convention of the
National Editorial Association opened in the
Metropolitan Hall opposite the U. S. Mint build-
ing. A very fine looking audience assembled,
though the larger part were the visiting delega-
tion. The Chairman of the reception committee
of the California delegation, read an address of
welcome which was very complimentary to the
visitors, and set forth in the most glowing terms
the advantages of California in every respect, its
present prospects, and its great possible and
probable future.
	The President, Mr. W. S. Capeller, made the
address of the evening which was very able and
admirably delivered. These two addresses were
the principal features of the opening meeting.
	One of the most notable men of the Conven-
tion and of the editorial association is the Cor.
Secretary, Mr. J. M. Page, of Jerseyville, Ill.,
editor of the Democrat, he has filled the office he
holds eight years in succession. He is to the N.
E. A. what Rachel Foster Avery is to the N.-A.
W. S. A. has the same soft of wonderful tact and

[Column 2]

talent to grasp the situation of affairs and to not
only make a success of what he undertakes but
to do whatever is best for the Association to the
perfect satisfaction of all concerned. To manage
a large party of men and women, look after the
transportation and see that everything goes right,
at the same time to do the secretary's work and
answer every one's questions in the most polite
and gracious manner as if it were a pleasure, is
what but few people are capable of doing.
	There might be a great deal written of the do-
ings of the Convention, but as it is quite impos-
sible to "tell it all" especially at one time in a
small paper, we will leave some things to the
imagination, and some to use at another time in
these columns,
	One of the best articles read at the Convention
was (in our estimation) "Women In Journalism"
by Sallie A. Moses, and read by Mrs. S. W. Pratt
who gave good expression to the subject, modu-
lating her voice well and altogether rendering it
in a clear and forcible style,which was very pleas-
ing to her hearers.
	On the last day of the Convention, there was a
great deal of unfinished business to be disposed
of and the officers for the ensuing year were to
be chosen, and altogether with arranging trans-
portation and bringing matters to a close there
was a good deal of a "hubbub." However the vot-
ing went on pretty well until some one suggested
a woman for third Vice President; on this ques-
tion, there were a variety of opinions. Some
members holding that Mrs. E. Jeanette Abbott a
Chicago lady, the nominee, was not eligible, and
some gentlemen were anxious to convince those
around them that it would be impossible for a
woman to preside, one man near where we were
sitting said imagine a woman presiding over such
an assembly as this?"
	Sure enough, we thought, for even the Presi-
dent, Mr. Capeller, who is trying his best to main-
tain order, and declaring aloud he would "have
harmony if he had to fight for it" could not pos-
sibly preside with dignity, but if a woman had
been seated in the chair men would have behaved
better. Miss Anthony, Miss Willard, or Mrs.
Sewall and other women we know could have
kept just as good order as Mr. Capeller with all
due deference to the gentleman, his dignity, and
self-possession and his well-trained voice.
	Some of the members were loud in their praise
of Mrs. Abbott and she had a large number of
votes, but the tide of popular opinion was in favor
of the other nominee and so he was elected. Mrs.
Abbott seemed to be very popular with the
llinois delegation and with many others. She
conducts the Elite News, and is the Assistant
Cor. Sec'y of the Illinois Woman's Press Asso-
ciation and is said to be a very charming woman
porsonally. It would have been a very graceful
thing to have elected her, and a sort of a tacit ac-
knowledgement of woman's ability. To make
some sort of reparation or as a compliment to the
ladies, Miss Louise E. Francis was nominated as
Assistant Recording Secretary, and again an ob-
jection, this time that the Constitution made no
provision for such an office, Mr. Capellar declared
her elected any way, and whether she is really a
bona fide officer or not she may know, but we are
not at all sure. Miss Frances is a very competent
young person, has a great deal of independence,
and carries on her own business as a newspaper
editor and proprietor. She is a Californian by
birth and has been educated in her own state.
Her paper is the Castroville Enterprise and is the
official organ of the Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association. At some future time we hope to
tell our readers more about these bright, plucky
California newspaper women.
	On Manday evening, May 30, there was an in-
formal reception at Mrs. Eyster's in order to bring
together some of the ladies who had not yet left
he city and have them meet members of the P.


Walton full in the face, "I don't quite under-
stand your meaning Doctor Bland.  Do you
insinuate that I am a coward to come into my
enemy's house after his death, to call on a
matter of importance?"
	Dr. Bland did not desire to reply and Wal-
ton rode on in silence until they reached the
courtyard.  Both gentlemen dismounted and
as the Doctor was familiar with the place he
escorted Lord Walton into the house and they
were shown into the library.
	"Tell Miss Conway a gentleman wishes to
see her on business," said the Doctor to the
servant, who soon returned saying Miss Con-
way would be down in a few minutes.
	Jane Conway wondered when summoned by
the servant what had brought a fine gentleman
to see her, for the serving man had described
him as a "foine big man," and she could not
imagine who it could be.  She was not long
in ascertaining, for coming into the room she
was introduced by the doctor to Lord Walton
and she knew at once he was Maitland's father
and suspected the rest.  The interview was not
a long one, and when it was over Lord Walton
insisted upon being presented to Miss Hillard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	This is the first time in the history of the
United States that women have been made Dele-
gates to a Presidential Convention, but Wyoming
true to the principles of her Constitution elected
one lady, Mrs. Theresa Jenkins and one alternate
Mrs. Georgianna Carlton, the last named lady
Utah has some honor in claiming as she spent
most of her life here, and all her early education 
and training she received in this Territory.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
stake will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City Friday June 17.  Meetings will
commence as usual at 10 a. and 2 p.m. The
President is desirous of a good attendance of the
members from the wards of the city and from all
parts of the county.  As this is not the time of
year for reports it is expected the Conference will
be of an interesting character.  A cordial invita-
tion is extended to the brethren and sisters in-
terested in this benevolent institution and especi-
ally the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles,
the Presiding Bishops, the Presidency of the
Stake and the Bishops of the several wards. By 
order of the President, M. Isabella Horne.

	The terrible calamities that have been chroni-
cled in the newspapers the last few weeks are
indeed terrifying; while famine rages in one part
of the earth, and war is threatened in another,
floods, cyclones,  storms,  whirlwinds,  raging
torrents, explosions, fires, and disease and death

[column 2]
all these with the destruction of human life and
property seem almost to overwhelm one with
the sickening record; and involuntarily one con-
templates—what is and may be yet to come to
pass. The prophecies of the Scriptures are being
fulfilled in the sight of the people.  Here in these
peaceful vales there is plenty and comparative
quiet, surely there is reason to rejoice and be
grateful that all is as well as it is with this peo-
ple here in the valleys of the mountains.
	The Republican Convention at Minneapolis has
had rather a lively time; after considerable de-
bating and delay, O. J. Salisbery and Frank J.
Cannon were admitted to seats in the Convention
and also Messrs. Goodwin and Varian with each
side one vote.  While the Convention was in pro-
cess of organization, some radical changes took
place in the political atmosphere of the country,
Blaine's resignation as Secretary of State causing
some people to look upon him as almost a traitor
to the President and Cabinet—however this may
be viewed it was doubtless a disappoinment to 
many of his ardent admirers, who have heretofore
looked upon him as the greatest man of his party.
That it will somewhat lessen his influence and his
fame seems more than probable.  At present, in-
dications point to a more turbulent state of the
political affairs of the nation than there has ever
been at any presidential election.  Bitterness in
the two factions of Blaine and Harrison men is
lamentable when one considers the welfare of the 
country is at stake.  On the 10th, the dispatches
announced Harrison's nomination on the first
ballot;  also Whitelaw Reid of New York, for
Vice President; this ends the contest so far.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Solomon Thatcher of
Chicago, to Utah, was a very pleasing affair, as
well as beneficial in the interests of the Columbian
Exposition. Mrs. Thatcher is a very gifted and
brilliant woman, and intensely interested in the
woman's department of the World's Fair; of
which she is one of the Executive Committee.
She addressed the people of Logan, Cache Co.,
while there on a visit to Hon. Moses Thatcher
and family, and had a large audience in the Logan
Tabernacle. On Sunday evening she spoke in
this City, in the large Tabernacle, to the largest
congregation she has ever had the honor of ad-
dressing at any time. She has a fine presence, a
clear manner of expressing her ideas, and holds
her listeners spell-bound with her sympathetic
eloquence.  We shall publish her speech in our
next issue of the paper, therefore we do not desire
to make any extracts, to spoil the effect. Mrs.
Thatcher was introduced to the audience by Miss
Keogh of this city in a few well-chosen words.
While here Mr. and Mrs. Thatcher were the
guests of Presiding Bishop Preston.  We had
an opportunity of meeting the distinguished lady
previous to her departure from this City, and
found her exceedingly interesting in conversation,
and well posted on all general matters pertaining
to women, as well as those directly connected 
with the World's Fair work.


INTERESTING LETTER.

	We publish extracts from a letter received
from Miss Balgarnie, dated May 19, 1891, which
we feel sure our readers will be interested in, as
well as to know that she arrived home safely
after her visit to America. Miss Balgarnie is a
most valiant young woman in the field of work in
Great Britain. While in this country she made
a tour of the United States and Canada, looking
up on many vital questions especially those per-
taining to woman’s status, and particularly wages.
Her ideas on the great questions of the day are
very practical and she knows how to express her
views clearly, as well as eloquently. We shall
ever regret her not being able to speak in this


city, for her manner is so attractive that many
opposed to the question of woman's suffrage and
kindred topics would certainly listen to her be-
cause of her eloquence, and might thus be in-
fluenced against their previous prejudices.—ED.
		*	*	*	*	*	*
	"I would have written before, but I was far
from well for a fortnight after landing, having
caught cold on the boat. I am all right now, and
in the midst of work; this week we have had the
Women's Liberal Federation meeting presided
over by Lady Aberdeen. I spoke on Woman's 
Wages, and told of what I had seen amongst
women Factory inspectors in your country—I
hope ere long we may have them here. One
has already been appointed in Nottingham, and
there are here three women acting as Sub-com-
missioners for the Royal Commission now investi-
gating the Labor question. It is very nice to find
my country women so alive, and immense strides
have been made while I have been away. In
this year the suffrage has advanced more than
during ten previous years."
	"I had a pleasant trip, the Sea was calm; but
amongst all my recollections some of the most
interesting and pleasant are of the day spent in
your hospitable city, amongst all your kind
friends. I do thank you all and you especially
for all you did to make me happy. You will be
seeing Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs.
Richards and others,—please give them my very
kindest remembrances.
	I hope if you are ever here that you will come
to see me.
			*	*	*	*	*	*
				Yours Very Sincerely,
						FLORENCE BALGARNIE.


AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Monday night the 11th of April, in company
with Pres. F. A. Hammond, Sister Elizabeth
Howard and Mary A. Freeze, left the City by way
of the D. and R. G. R. R., to visit San Juan
Stake in the interest of women's organizations.
Sister Howard has given a description of her
journey for the EXPONENT, she says, "We en-
joyed the delightful scenery on the train by
moonlight, rather than sleeping, reached Thomp-
son's Springs the following morning, where a
carriage was in waiting to take us to Moab, arriv-
ing at that place about 4 p. m. We held meetings
the next day at 10 a. m., with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p. m. with the Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
mained there until the next morning, when
Brother Holyoak and wife went with us on our
way having fitted up a team with every conveni-
ence for traveling. After driving about 15 miles
we stopped to rest our horses etc., and lunched
at Kane Spring's; resuming our journey we
traveled over fearful gulches and dugways finally
coming to a lovely place, very grand, we camped
for the night, made a great fire of pine trees, pre-
pared supper and after singing and prayer—we
retired, slept well in the open air and felt refresh-
ed when we rose early in the morning; break-
fasted and pursued our way; arrived about noon
at Petersen's hill where we lunched; on our trip that
day we passed between the La Salle and Blue
Mountains far, far apart, and arrived at Monticello
at five p.m. where several of the sisters of the
Relief Society came to visit us at Bishop Jones,
whose wife is President of the Relief Society at
that place.
	"Next day, 16th, held meeting with the Relief
Society, had a large attendance; after dinner,
Young Ladies meeting, the house filled with
young men and young women;—this place is
7,500 feet above the level of the sea, a large level
tract of land, they raise good wheat and have ex-
cellent fruit; this locality is a grand site for the


[Column 1]
building of a magnificent city; looking over the
country one can see an immense distance around
the horizon;here we held a meeting of the Primary
Association at 7 p. m., stayed and attended pub-
lic Sunday services, meeting at ten in the meet-
ing house, Pres. Hammond gave a graphic des-
cription of the cap stone services at S. L. City
on the 6th of April; with which the people were
greatly delighted, as were we also. Sister
Freeze and myself both addressed the congrega-
tion a short time by special request.
	"Brother Geo. Adams came well prepared and
took us to our next camping place Alkali Springs;
we had a delightful drive, passed in the distance
the Elk mountains, when between 30 and 40 miles
on our journey we saw a hundred miles in the
distance, standing alone in a vast plain, a mag-
nificent structure of stone, which resembles a
large castle called "Cathedral Rock"-it stands
1,000 feet high and is one of the most striking
pictures of that wonderful country.
	"We camped for lunch that day on the bank of
Recapture river, which has some sort of tradition
of Indians, Spanish, etc., passed Comb-Wash
Rocks, prominent and steep very noticable, this
ledge is 30 miles long; afterwards we passed
Cotton wood wash a sort of gulch twining in and
out for 40 miles-over rough rocks and down
Cow-Canon one of the grandest places I have
ever seen-it was solid rock, the road had been
blasted, and cut, and dug through here at im-
mense expense and labor;-this canon ushers us
into the beautiful valley where Bluff city is situ-
ated on the San Juan river, where we arrived safe
on the 18th at the residence of Pres. Hammond
and there met his amiable wife and lovely
daughters. Tuesday we held the Young Ladies
meeting; on Wednesday held a meeting of the
Relief Society, and the same evening an informal
meeting of the officers of the several organiza-
tions R. S., Y. L., and P. A. at Sister Josephine
Wood's which we enjoyed very much, conversing
with these good sisters who live so far away from
the centre Stake of Zion.
	"The next day Mrs. Decker, Mrs. Hammond,
and Mrs. Freeze and myself ascended a very
high and steep hill, evidently the remains of some
ancient and immense ruin; it bore every appear-
ance of it;-on the top after our climbing and
clambering on and over the rocks we were per-
fectly delighted to find, and we picked up broken
pieces of ancient pottery, interesting curiosities
probably from utensils of the ancient inhabitants;
at the extreme end of this lofty eminence, is the
cemetery for Bluff, and to reach it the road winds
round and round a long distance, though we had
climbed up the other way.
	"The same afternoon, Thursday, at 2 p. m. we
organized a Woman's Suffrage Association for
San Juan County, with an efficient corps of
officers; considerable interest was manifested on
the subject and no doubt there will be quite an
awakening among the women of the vicinity.
	"Friday at 2 p. m. a general meeting of the
brethren and sisters, at which instructions were
given in all departments of woman's work and
improvement.
	"Saturday there was a Primary meeting well at-
tended; children orderly, and a fine programme
well carried out. Sunday School on Sunday
morning where both of us spoke, and afternoon
meeting where we both addressed the congrega-
tion by invitation.
	"On Monday we left Bluff early in the morning
Sister Hammond joining us, and traveled by
several Cliff Builders dwellings,which were great
curiosities and very interesting; Sister Freeze
went into one of them, was helped up one narrow
step after another in the rocky way by Brother
Burton, until she reached the opening, and had
the opportunity of going inside through the
window as the door was inaccessible. We rest-
ed at Montezuma Wash and lunched there under

[Column 2]
some very grand old trees. We traveled over an
extraordinary formation of art called Corduroy
hill; at the foot of which there are millions of
marbles formed by the elements as hard as rocks.
We crossed Mac’EImo’s Wash, a very hazardous
exploit, then we came to a trading post where
there were a number of Indians, it is named Peak
City; that night we camped out again and indeed
the making of our beds of the pine tree boughs at
our camping places was something quite ro-
mantic
	"Tuesday morning we crossed the line into
Colorado, we lunched in camp and soon came to
the Mancos river where we had supper on the
banks, the river was so high and rapid that Pres.
Hammond was anxious to know the depth of the
water before we crossed, and called to a stalwart
young Indian on the opposite side of the stream,
who wrapping his blanket around him, strode
through the stream, and thus finding it safe to
cross we drove over, the water reaching the edge
of the carriage, but toiling up the other side was
difficult; immediately after we crossed the river
we saw large flocks of young lambs and kids,
beautiful and white, feeding and playing about,
it was a very pretty sight;these all belonged to the
squaws in that vicinity; we rode to a ravine where
we camped over night; we traveled on in the
morning and breakfasted in a grand canon, a
most romantic place, and Mrs. Freeze and I
climbed the hills and picked up more pieces of
pottery and curiosities; we arrived in Olio in the
afternoon. The next day in the afternoon we
held a meeting of the Relief Society at Brother
Geo. Burnham's, and in the evening in the meet-
ing house where there was a large assembly, not
only of our people but other denominations.
	"Next day we paid a visit to an Indian trading
post, to reach, which place we crossed the San
Juan river in a ferry boat which is a wide turbu-
lent stream; we had a very nice visit with the
trader's wife and family.
	"We also visited Mrs. Abagail Stevens and
family, and at her house we held a meeting of the
Relief Society; Saturday we held a general meet-
ing in the meeting house not only attended by our
own people but other denominations as well.
	"Sunday being the general fast day observed
throughout the several stakes of Zion, we at-
tended the meeting, there were people from La
Platta as well; at this meeting every one present
bore their testimony young and old which was a
spiritual feast indeed. In the evening of the same
day the sisters held a general meeting of all de-
nominations, and it was a very interesting time.
	"Monday we spent the time in visiting,Tuesday
morning Brother and Sister Hammond started
off early; later in the day we left in company
with Bishop Burnham; we traveled to La Platta,
the scenery was grand all the journey; traveled
by the La Platta river and reached the town of
La Platta in time to hold meeting in the evening
at Brother Roger's, had a good attendance.
	The next morning May 4, we went to Sister
Lydia Taylor's and as she had a large and
spacious room suitable to convene an assembly,
the funeral of Axel Swan was held at her house
he was a promising intelligent young man, who
had died the day previous. Our arrival was
timely for the parents were grieving inconsolably
as it were,and we were enabled to comfort them in
a measure and soften the terrible blow that
seemed to have fallen upon them so heavily. In
the afternoon we held Primary meeting and the
children acquitted themselves very creditably in-
deed. All the Primary Associations seemed to
be well regulated and the children under good
training. Our journey has been delightful in
many ways, and as we were not hurried we had
excellent opportunity to familiarize ourselves with
the people and understand things much better
than in a hasty trip.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY AT PLASANT GREEN.

	The sisters of Plasant Green Relief Socity
met at the ward house on Thursday, May 19,
1892, to celebrate the anniversary of their or-
ganization. There were present on the stand
from Salt Lake City the General President
Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Bath-
sheba Smith, and President M. I. Horne of the
Salt Lake Stake; of the ward authorities
Pres. Alvira S. Hirst, Counselor Ann C.
Bertoch, Bishop L. N. Hardman, Counselors
H. T. Spencer and John Hirst.
	Pres. Alvira S. Hirst presided. After the
usual exercises Pres. Horne addressed the
congregation in a very encouraging and in-
structive manner. Sister Smith then addressed
the assembly in a very pleasing manner, then
the beautiful Jubilee song was sung, entitled
“The Daughters of Zion, the Friends of the
Poor.” Pres. Zina Young occupied the stand
and exhorted the sisters to diligence and to
learn and know the will of our Heavenly
Father. Bishop L. N. Hardman exhorted
the sisters to faithfulness and to be diligent
in all things. Counselor H. T. Spencer ad-
dressed the sisters in a pleasing manner.
President Charlotte Nealson of Hunter ward
addressed the assembly in a brief but pleasant
manner. Counselor John Hirst exhorted the
sisters to be faithful and press forward.
Counselor Ann C. Bertoch said she was
thankful to have our beloved sisters in our
midst and asked God to strengthen us. Pres.
Alvira S. Hirst urged the sisters to treasure
up the good things that they had heard and
profit by them, for we had indeed had a time
of rejoicing and a feast of refreshing. Meeting
then adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the after-
noon for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association. Pres. Hirst presiding; after the
usual exercises were over, Pres. Zina Young
with the assistance of Pres. Hirst, proceeded
to organize a Primary, which was effected.
The following named officers were sustained,
Mrs. Fanny S. Brown, President; Mrs. Sarah
H. Coon and Miss Maggie Hardman Coun-
selors; Miss Maud Spencer, Secretary; Master
Lott Hancock, Cor. Sec.; Master William C.
Bertosh, Treasurer. After the organization
was completed Pres. Zina Young addressed
the little people in her pleasing motherly way.
Bishop Hardman, Counselor John Hirst, Coun-
selor Ann Bertoch, Mrs. M. J. C. Auer all
addressed the little people in a pleasing and
instructive manner. Pres. Fanny S. Brown
and Counselors expressed their willingness to
labor for the upbuilding of the Primary, God
giving them strength. Pres. Alvira Hirst
made a few closing remarks asking God to bless
us one and all, that we might be found worthy
to be numbered with his chosen sons and
daughters.
	ALVIRA S. HIRST, President.
	FANNY H. JENKINS, Secretary R. S.


SOMETHING ABOUT VOTING.

	Mrs. President, friends and members of the
Association: it has fallen to my lot to write
something for our suffrage meeting, I have en-
deavored to do my best, and I trust that it
will be interesting and benefical to my hearers;
this is not a religious assembly, but for all that
we need the Spirit of God to direct us, we as
ladies and sisters should work together in
union and strive to have the approval of our
Heavenly Father.
	Why should men fear us at the polls? is it
because they themselves are so corrupt? There
is no mother, wife, daughter, or sister, but that
will vote for an honorable man instead of those
that seek the overthrow of good men; a
mother has the interest of her children at heart


and she desires the company in which they
move to be pure and upright.
	No matter how degraded a woman may
have become herself, she wishes not only to
see her own sons and daughters virtuous, but
also those with whom they may associate.
Men do not give women the credit of being
smart enough to vote. If the mothers are
capable of rearing sons that can vote, why not
her daughters, you would not see a lady reel
up to the Ballot Box, and not know for whom 
she was voting as you will some men, and
you would not see a mother selling her vote
for liquor or a meal,a drunken father is allowed
to vote while a good mother cannot say who
shall govern her sons and daughters; why
even tramps have been allowed to vote.  For
whom do they vote?  Men of the best and
finest type? no, that was not the object of their
vote, it was to get board and lodging.  Would
you find women doing such a degrading thing?
I think not, they would do their best to get an
honest meal; you will not find them tramping,
begging for something to eat from persons that
are sober and industrious.
	Some men do not think that the wife has
time enough to vote, but I think women can
make time for that, it does not take long to
deposit a ballot, that is a very poor excuse.
She needs a rest from sweeping and dusting
and looking after domestic affairs, the mother
would not spend the same time in voting as
her husband would; after she had cast her
vote, you would see her returning to her home 
and to her family, to look after their welfare;
not going away to places for drink, or loafing
on the street cornors.
	Some tell us we are likely to be insulted if
we go to vote; why need we fear anything of
the kind? why not go arm in arm with our
husband or brother? if a woman has property
she is forced to have the time to pay her taxes
and it would not take her any longer to vote
than to pay taxes, and she meets the same
class of men at the one place, as she does at
the other.  If we are to be taxed the same as
men why are we deprived of the right of say-
ing who shall tax us? it is time we were awak-
ing, and asking for our rights; for it is our
right and not a privilege.
	Some argue that for women to vote would
cause family trouble, why should it? man
should not be selfish enough to want his wife
to vote the way he does, the wife has the same
right to use her own judgment as the husband
has; for she will lend her influence in the
right direction nine cases out of ten.
	Let us educate ourselves in these matters that
when we get our franchise we may appreciate
its full value and not abuse it.  Let us honor
it as a God-given right is the desire of one of
your number. 
					ANNIE C. HINDLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


"WILL YE GO AWAY?"

	No, Lord we have loved thee too long and
too ardently to go away from thee!  Away
from thee?  Our best friend—our brother—
our advocate with the Father, thou who hast
put away our sins by the shedding of thy heart's
blood, who hast died to purchase for us the
bliss of heaven, in whose name alone we can be
saved?  We are constrained to say in the language
of St. Peter, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou
hast the words of eternal life.  And we believe
and are sure that Thou art that Christ, the
Son of the living God."
	Noble Peter—we cannot help loving him for
his boldness and courage in confessing his
Lord.  We are also drawn to him by intense
sympathy which springs from common weak-
ness.  So often we stumble and fall, that we
turn with a kind of relief to him whose steps
faltered even as ours and sometimes as sadly


went astray.  And yet there is something so
interesting and profitable in the story of Peter,
that we turn again and again to study it with
ever increasing delight.  But like us, Peter
was human and his self-reliance caused him to
fall.  This was preceded by the "following afar
off;" had he kept close to his Lord, he would
not have fallen.  Those who have reached
three score and ten, or fourscore years, can on
looking back see many times that they have fol-
lowed afar off until there has come again and
again a gentle reminder, a tender look which
has caused us to weep bitterly, and it is this
experience which forces us to look forward a
few years, with sorrow of heart, when the
young people of this community, will begin to
see the emptiness of worldly pleasure and will 
wish they had not thrown away so many gold-
en opportunities.
	Oh! ye young Latter Day Saints, many of
you have professed to receive the gospel﻿ in
your native land, you have been baptized into
the Church of Christ, you have crossed the
ocean in order to live with the Saints in the
land of Zion, but how is it now?  Many of you
prefer the sinful pleasures which are provided
by the Gentile world on the Sabbath for your
overthrow.
	Others prefer novel-reading to meeting with
the Saints to listen to the instructions of God's
servants.  Does reading a novel increase your
relish for the Bible, Book of Mormon, or any
other sacred book? Does it help you to culti-
vate the spirit of prayer, while your seat in
God's house is vacant? No, it does not.  A
novel reader is seldom a reader of sacred books.
Many and various are the traps set by the
world for your unwary feet, and when you fall
into them, they say in their hearts, “Ah! so
would we have it.” Then comes the sting for
every sinful pleasure is provided with a sting,
ready to pierce you as soon as the gratification
is over. Well will it be for you if the Lord
should give you such a look as He did Peter,
which will cause you to weep biterly. Re-
member you will be called togive an account of
every idle word and every unholy act in the
day of judgment. Let us take the advice of
holy writ which says—“take with you words,
and turn to the Lord, say unto Him, take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously;”
and He will do it,but His Spirit will not strive
with us for ever. Your Redeemer is asking
you in tender pity, “will ye also go away?”
Oh! let your answer be,“Lord to whom shall we
go?  Thou hast the words of eternal life.”
					MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

Editor Woman’s Journal:
	The annual business meeting of the Nation-
al Council of Women was held at Chicago,
May 9, 10.
	A report from the Committee on Equal
Wages for Equal Work, from its Chairman,
Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, was read by the
Corresponding Secretary. It reported progress
in the work of presenting to and urging upon
Congress a bill to secure to government em-
ployees equal wages for equal work, regardless
of sex.
	The President and Secretary were directed
by the meeting to send to the General Confer-
ence of the M. E. Church in session at Omaha,
Neb., in the care of Bishop Fitzgerald, a let-
ter on the admission of women as members of
the Conference. The following letter, signed
by these two officers, was sent:

To the General Conference of the M. E. Church,
	Care Bishop Fitzgerald, Omaha, Nebraska.

	Honored Friends:—The National Council
of Women of the United States, representing
at its last annual meeting sixty-two separate
national societies of women, in all depart-

[Column 2]
ments of beneficent effort and from all parts
of the nation, respectfully congratulate the
General Conference of the great church repre-
sented by your assembly on the majority vote
of ministers and laity in favor of the equal
participation of women in the councils of the
church wherein they form two-thirds of the
membership. We believe this action repre-
sents the most intelligent public opinion of the
present  time, and we, as women workers,
await with earnest expectation the forward
movement in one of the world’s greatest
churches as the forerunner of such universal
action on the part of all churches as shall
realize the New Testament declaration, "There
is neither male nor female, but ye are all one
in Christ Jesus.”
	On behalf of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States,
	Yours, with high esteem,
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, President.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.

	The Corresponding Secretary was directed
to write to the Secretary of the National Di-
vorce Reform League, Dr. Samuel Dike,
Auburndale, Mass., stating the desire of the
Council that women be placed upon the Board,
and that the Council has already appointed a
committee to urge this point with the League
	An interesting discussion was called out by
the report of the Dress Reform Committee.
It was decided to have the Symposium on
Dress, which has been prepared by this Com-
mittee for the Council, appear in the Arena.
	The following resolution, offered by Mrs.
E. B. Grannis, President of the National So-
ciety for the Promotion of Social Purity, was
unanimously adopted:

	Resolved, That it is the sense of the Execu-
tive Council of Women of the United States,
that the Health Boards of Hungary and Aus-
tria have set a true key-note for the dress-
reform by urging that legislation be had to
prevent the wearing of long skirts upon the
street, in view of the fact that such skirts gath-
er up poisonous material from the filth of the
streets, and thus endanger the public health.

	The President of the National Council, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, gave a most encouraging
report of the progress of the Council movement
in foreign countries. As a result of the great
meeting of the French women held in 1889,
the inspiration to which was given by the In-
ternational Council at Washington in 1888, a
National Council of the Women of France
has been formed, and is ready to act in con-
junction with the National Council of the
United States, through the International
Council of Women. In Finland the
national bodies of women are federated through
the effects of Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg,
the representative of that country in the In-
ternational Council of 1888. The three Scan-
dinavian countries, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark, have lately formed a Scandinavian
Council of Women. In Italy, a sort of Na-
tional Club of women has been formed, with
Queen Margherita as its leader and chief of-
ficer.
	Mrs. M. R. M. Wallace, President of the
Illinois Industrial Reform School for Girls,
member of the National Council, informed the
meeting of a convention of Industrial Reform
Schools which was held in Chicago, May 25.
Mrs. Wallace expects the result of this meet-
ing to be a national association of such schools.
In case of the formation of such an association,
if it shall enter the Council, Mrs. Wallace
thinks the school of which she is a representa-
tive would yield its place to the national society
representing the same idea.
	On Tuesday morning, Mrs. Frank Stuart
Parker, a member of the Council’s Committee
on Dress, gave some interesting information
on the subject, spoke of the large Dress Re-


form Association existing in Chicago, of the
approaching publication of a valuable work
on artistic dress, and promised that her own
contribution to the Symposium would be ready
within a week. Mrs. Parker said that she
could get photographs of some of the dresses
which would be described in her article. She
was instructed to do so, that they may be used
to illustrate the Symposium. On motion of
Miss Willard the resolution,on dress passed at
Washington, D. C., was passed again by the
Executive Meeting, with some slight changes.
	A discussion of headquarters followed. Mrs.
M. R. M. Wallace, Miss Anthony, Miss Wil-
lard and the President urged the importance
of permanent headquarters on the Fair
Grounds, and suggested the advisability of
other headquarters in the city before the
dedicatory exercises of the Exposition in Oc-
tober, 1892. It was decided that the Council,
having been invited by Mrs. Palmer, President
of the Board of Lady Managers, to make its
headquarters in the Woman’s Building, pre-
pare to occupy said headquarters during the
entire time of the Exposition. The Secretary
was directed to notify all national organizations
of women not already members of the Council
that they are invited to enter it, and that all
its members shall have desk room in its head-
quarters at the World’s Fair.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Avery reported
their informal talk with Mr. Bonney, President
of the Auxiliary Congresses of the Columbian
Exposition, and his expression of welcome to
the Council of Women; also that he thought
it would be possible to arrange that the Coun-
cil should have free use of the auditoriums
and some committee rooms of the Art Palace,
where the Congresses are to be held, yet re-
taining the entire management of its own meet-
ings. It was resolved that the application of
the Council be sent to President Bonney for
the gratuitous use of two audience rooms and
five committee rooms, day and evening, for one
week, and that the Council ask for such use of
the Art Palace for one week immediately pre-
ceding the meeting of the World’s Woman’s
Temperance Union.
	Tuesday afternoon it was decided, on mo-
tion of Miss Willard, that the Council provide
for a list of “Patrons of the Council.” Any
person whose name is acceptable to the gen-
eral officers may become a patron by payment
of $100 to the Council.
	The resignation of Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer
from the position of vice-president of the Coun-
cil, on account of poor health, was accepted
with regret.
	The following resolution was passed:

	Resolved, That we commend to the general
officers of the Council, with power to act, the
desirability of carrying out the plan proposed
by the first President in her address at Wash-
ington, D. C., in 1891, in regard to holding
a legislative congress of women at the Nation-
al Capital during the session of Congress, to
act on measures touching the welfare of wo-
men,and recommend the same to the consider-
ation of Congress.

	The President announced her intention of
spending the summer in Europe working in
the interests of the Council, and received the
unanimous approval of the meeting upon her
plan of dividing her time between England
and Germany.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
					Cor. Sec. N. C. W.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


COMPENSATION.

	[Extract from an essay by Ralph Waldo
Emerson.]
	And yet the compensations of calamity are
made apparent to the understanding also, after


long intervals of time.  A fever, a mutilation,
a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss
of friends,seems at the moment unparalleled loss
and unpayable.  But the sure years reveal the
deep remedial force that underlies all facts.
The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover,
which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat
later assumes the aspect of a guide, or genius;
for it commonly operates revolutions in our
way of life, terminates an epoch of infancy, or
of youth,  which was waiting to be closed,
breaks up a wonted occupation, or a house-
hold, or style of living, and allows the for-
mation of new ones, more friendly to the
growth of character. It permits or constrains
the formation of new acquaintances, and the
reception of new influences, that prove of the
first importance to the next years; and the
man or woman who would have remained a
sunny, garden flower, with no room for its
roots and too much sunshine for its head, by
the falling of the walls and the neglect of
the gardener, is made the banian of the for-
est, yielding shade and fruit to wide neighbor-
hoods of men.”


GLEANINGS.

	Culture does not exist for its own sake, but
for the sake of added power in all the relations
of life.—Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown, New
Jersey.

	Every woman’s club is a continual post-
graduate course for every woman in it, and
for the husbands at home as well.—Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Indianapolis.

	Literary clubs must be progressive, but not
aggressive.—Mrs. Etta S. Osgood, Portland, Me.

	The object of the woman’s club is to make
every woman’s life more useful to her family
and sweeter to herself.—Mrs. Mary Jameson
Judah, Memphis, Tenn.

	God’s truths always make enthusiasts when
properly understood.—Mrs. J. M. Crouse,
Chicago, Ill.

	Man has been so afraid for his rights that
he has lost the greatest of his rights—the in-
telligent help of woman.—Dr. Sarah Hackett
Stevenson, Chicago.


Margaret Manton Merrill is meeting with
great success, reciting in London. She has
made a hit in George Sutton’s "Pint of Fizz."
Mrs. Merrill, it will be remembered, has done
excellent newspaper work on the New York
Herald.
	English women are very active in politics.
The Women’s Liberal Society, at the head
of which is Mrs. Gladstone, numbers now fully
100,000 members, and the Primrose League,
which is an older organization, made famous
by such women as Lady Randolph Churchill,
is even larger.—Ex.


OBITUARIES.

	Sarah Mulim Hill Mc Kendrick, born April
1st, 1862 in Ogden, Utah, died March 24,
1892 in Wellington, Utah.  She leaves a
family of small children, the youngest nine
days old; she was a faithful member of the
Relief, Society.
							COM.

	At Round Valley, Gila Co.  Arizona,
on May 5, 1892, the Death Angel carried
from our midst Lenore Gibson, aged 2 1/2 years,
daughter of Joseph and Ruth Gibson. She
had been a cripple since Sept. last, but was
improving slowly, when she was taken with


inflammation of the stomach. On May fifth
she was carried across that “Silvery Water,”
where she will await the coming of her loved
ones. No pure or more patient child ever liv-
ed. Too good and pure to live in this sinful
world.
						COM.
	The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 10th of April
1892, our beloved Sister Maria Stevenson,
wife of William Richardson, aged 65 years.
	The deceased was born at Doncaster, Eng-
land. Was baptised into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints in 1847. Emigra-
ted to Utah in 1888. Came with her husband
to Plain City, and stayed with her nephew
Bishop J. W. Bramwell until they bought a
home, where they have lived until her death.
She was always patient in her sickness, suffered
much from liver and kidney disease which
caused her death. She was an affectionate and
loving wife and mother, a true and noble Lat-
terday Saint, for whose loss her bereaved hus-
band and her devoted sister M. A. Bramwell
with a host of loving nephews and nieces, and
her sisters of the Relief Society all are left to
mourn; but with the assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
		M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec. R. S.
	[Millennial Star please copy.]

	Our beloved sister M. A. Humphry Miller,
beloved wife of Brother Stephen Miller, died
at her residence in Plain City on the 1st of
April, 1892. Deceased was born in Heathfield,
Sussex Co., England in 1812, was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Nov. 1854. Emigrated to Utah with
her husband and family in the year 1862; lived
in Wellsville Cache Valley four years, moved
to Plain City in 1866 where she has lived un-
til her death.
	Dear Sister Miller was a great sufferer all
through the last winter from a complication
of complaints, sciatica lung and heart disease,
terminating in pneumonia. She was a faith-
ful member of the Relief Society for many
years, and was an earnest worker as a teach-
er in the south district for a long time.
	She leaves a most loving husband, two sons,
and one daugh er to mourn her loss. Dear
Sister Miller was a true Latter-day Saint, an
affectionate wife and mother; in all her fearful
suffering she was never heard to complain.
One singular thing in her experience is that
in 1862, when she crossed the plains, her
health was so bad that all thought she would
die, and that she was too weak to bear the
journey in her then delicate condition, yet so
great was her faith in the power of healing,
that she was better in her confinement than
with any of her former children; although she
was then over 50 years of age.
	Rest, dear sister, in peace!
	M. A. W. SPIERS Sec. 	R. S. Plain City.


R. K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K.THOMAS

