[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 108 | Special Feature | Protect Your Whole Family From | Heart Disease]
Protect Your Whole Family From Heart Disease The American Heart Association Heart disease is a twentieth century epidemic. More than half of us will die of this dread disease! Hope is on the horizon, research holds answers that will save thousands of lives. The answers from research are hard to get and nature gives up her mysteries slowly. While we support this multi-million dollar research program, there are many things we can do for our families to gain protection from heart disease.. Dr. Paul Dudley White, in his appearance at the Tabernacle in September of 1967, enumerated many things we as families can do to improve against heart attacks. Dr. White says that those who have had heart attacks had one or more of these conditions or living habits: high levels of cholesterol or other fatty substance in the blood, overweight, high blood pressure, lack of exercise, cigarette smoking, and a family history of heart attacks in middle age. It appears that any one of these conditions or habits increases the chances of a heart attack, and that a condition of two or more factors multiples the risk. All of these habits or conditions may be averted or lessened by establishing good family habits. Habits usually begin in early childhood, with living patterns learned from parents. Children begin early in life to overeat and to develop a taste for fattening foods. Some children do not take part in sports or get enough other exercise. The smoking habit often begins in the teens or earlier, especially if the parents smoke. You can help your family by carefully choosing a nutritional and well-balanced diet, planning some type of program for regular exercise, and encouraging your child not to smoke by precept and example.. The home is the ideal place to begin to develop good habits—good habits pertaining to your heart. Your life will be healthier, happier, and longer. Protect yourself and your family and help support your Heart Association in the fight against America's Number One Killer—Heart Disease.