[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 98 | Fiction | The New Neighbor | Mabel Harmer]
97 Oe mae The New Neighbor a Mabel Harmer = Celia Mott stood by her livingroom window watching the man unload the furniture from the moving van into the house next door. She believed that her concern was entirely legitimate. She wanted to know as soon as possible if there were children in the family. Not that she minded children, she dearly loved her own grandchildren. She just didn't want any next door—not after the dose she had had with the Markham boys. As Henry had said after an unusually rowdy session, "Well, boys will be boys, you know." Celia agreed. She just didn't want them next door. There had been nothing vicious, or even mischievous about the Markham boys. It was just that their balls had a special affinity for her back yard, and 98 they leaped or climbed the fence to retrieve them. She had just now been able to get the trumpet vine into shape again after the many beatings it had endured during the climbs. The basketball hoop on the garage door had provided another cause for annoyance. The ball banged first against the door and then onto the cement below, early in the morning and late at night. The dog had never been allowed out of the yard, except on leash, but it had barked at the sound of every siren, no matter how distant. It seemed to hear them especially well in the middle of the night. No, Celia sincerely hoped that there would be no boys in the new family next door. A car had driven up now and a woman got out. At first glance, Celia thought she must be quite young. She was slender, very quick in her movements and wore a dirndl skirt. In addition, her hair was piled high on her head with a bow at the back. A second look showed that she wasn't really so young, after all, just trying to look and act it, Celia decided. The woman began taking things out of the rear of her car. There were bright cushions, lamps and—of all things—a lemon tree. Now why would anyone want a lemon tree in her house? The furniture the men were carrying in was also decidedly on the bright side. The chairs and divan were covered in gay, flowered chintz. There was a dresser that had been painted a bright red. Painters had been over working on the house for the past week. Celia was sure they were needed very badly after the knocks those rough Markham boys must have given the house. Celia turned from the window and went into the kitchen to make some cookies. She always greeted new neighbors' with freshly baked cookies. It gave her a good chance to get acquainted, and they were always very much welcomed in the stress of moving day. She baked her favorite whole-wheat with ground raisins and nuts. It was midafternoon before Celia decided to take them over. That would have given the new neighbor a chance to get at least a few things into place. The neighbor came smiling to the door, "Oh, do come in!" she exclaimed. "How good of you to greet me on moving day." "Thank you," replied Celia. "I The New Neighbor thought you might be able to use these. I daresay baking isn't the first order of business. My name is Celia Mott, and I live right next door south." "How nice,' was the reply. "Tl'm Kathy Andrews and my husband is Don. He has just been transferred from Columbus. I think it's exciting to move to a new city, don't you?" Celia was a bit nonplused. Actually, moving to another city was the last thing in the world she would have wanted. But she nodded and agreed, "I daresay it would be exciting all right. It's an experience I haven't had." Kathy moved a pile of clothing from a chair and said, "Do sit down. I'll make us a glass of lemonade to go with the cookies. I'm almost starved. I hadn't even thought of eating." She went out into the kitchen and Celia sat down. The room was in a turmoil, but that was to be expected. She noted that the walls had been painted an apple green and the chintzcovered chairs in bright colors gave the impression of a garden. In one corner stood the lemon tree. What was surprising was that the floor was almost covered with pictures and snapshots that had obviously been removed from a packing box. When Kathy returned with the lemonade and cookies, she cleared another chair for herself. Motioning to the litter on the floor, she said, "I was just going over these pictures. I haven't looked at them in years and it was more fun. They go back to my high-school days and that was twenty-five years ago." 

99 February 1968

 "Indeed." Quick figuring by Celia placed her neighbor's age in the late forties. "I hadn't supposed you were that old." Kathy shrugged. "Oh, yes. One of these first years I'll be fifty. That should be quite a milestone. Half a century sounds terribly old. But then—as long as I don't feel old...." She picked up a pile of snaps from the floor. "These are our grandchildren. There are four of them. That was the only bad part of moving. Now we can't see them every day or so. But they'll come often to visit, and I can go back there. Do you have grandchildren?" "Yes, but only three are in the city. We have a son living here and two daughters who live in other cities." "It's lovely that you have one here. We also had a son. He died in Korea." "Oh, what ashame!" exclaimed Celia. It seemed terribly inadequate, but she didn't know what else to say. "Yes it was," said Kathy quietly. Then she brightened and asked, "Would you care to see the rest of the house? Of course, nothing is straight, but we think we're going to like it very much. Would you like to see the kitchen?" "IT would, indeed," replied Celia. The kitchen was a bright yellow, and turquoise appliances had already been installed. Each of the other rooms was almost startling in its gay colors. One bedroom was pink walled with raspberry carpeting. Celia quickly decided that she would not care to live in such a rainbow. When she went back home, 100 the order of her always well-kept house was restful and doubly impressive. For a brief moment it did look rather dull, but she told herself that was simply the contrast with so much color. And a very pleasing contrast, she added to herself. She went into the living room and moved Henry's chair over to another place. The carpet under the spot where he put his feet was beginning to show a tiny bit of wear. If this went on it would soon be very noticeable, and the next thing, they would have to buy a new carpet. All for one worn spot that could just as well be avoided. She knew that Henry liked his chair where it had been, as he claimed it was the only place in the room where the light was good, but that was simply a notion. He could move a lamp over and see perfectly well. Celia went outside and picked some marigolds to put in a bowl for the kitchen—something she hadn't done for a long time. There were artificial flowers in the front rooms. They were so much less work and didn't drop petals around. Besides, now that they were in perfectly good taste she was glad to use them. It was a few minutes after five when another car came into the driveway next door. The master of the house stepped out and Celia noted that he, too, was slender and quick in his movements. She was certainly not prepared however, to see Mrs. Andrews rush out of the back door and throw herself into his arms. He kissed her, then lifted her off her feet and swung her around. They must have been separated for rather a long time, thought Celia. That can't be an everyday welcome. When Henry came in a few minutes later she was vaguely irritated with him. In his usual stolid manner he hung his hat in the closet and settled down with the newspaper he had picked up on the way in. Why, in the name of goodness, was she irritated? Celia asked herself. This was the way he came home every night. Did she suddenly expect him to lift her off her feet and swing her around? Hardly. It would have been the most unlikely event of the year. He could say something, however. Anyway, she could. She stopped in the doorway to ask, "Did you have a good day, dear?" "Um—about as usual," he replied, without glancing up from his paper. Her irritation increased, but she went back to the kitchen and took it out in mashing the potatoes. The table was set in the dining room, although there was ample space in the kitchen for the two of them. Henry would just as soon have eaten there. In fact, he thought there was something cozy about it. But Celia wasn't going to slide into such slovenly ways as long as she was able to carry food and dishes that distance. When they had sat down and the blessing had been said, she remarked, "The new neighbors moved in today. I went over and took some cookies." "Oh. That was nice. What are they like?" Henry's tone showed The New Neighbor that he was really much more in-_ terested in his steak. "Rather strange,' answered Celia. "She dresses like a schoolgirl, but she's over forty. The house is an absolute riot of color —everything from yellow to raspberry. But the oddest thing about her was that instead of putting her furniture in place, she was sitting in the middle of the floor looking at snapshots." "Well, maybe it was her best chance before she put them away again," said Henry quite unreasonably. "Nonsense! She could always remember where she put them. Anyway, I'm glad for one thing. They don't have any boys." "What's wrong with boys?" Henry demanded. "I seem to remember that you have some grandsons of your own." "I didn't mean it that way. Of course there's nothing wrong with boys. But you know full well what a nuisance it was to have those Markham boys always coming into the yard after their balls and yelling like savages any time, day or night." "Speaking of boys—we ought to have ours to dinner this Saturday. We've been going to their house for months now." "Yes, we should," Celia agreed. "I've asked Marcia a number of times, but she thinks that the boys worry me, for fear they'll break something in the house or spill on the carpets. She says she would rather we would come out there." "Well, it isn't right. We ought to have them here sometimes. You call tomorrow and say that we insist. I'll get something special. Steaks, for instance." 

101 February 1968

 The next morning Celia called her daughter-in-law to insist that they come to dinner. Marcia hesitated and then said, "All right, if you'll have it out on the patio. Charles can bring his grill and the men can take over. I'm not going to risk having Tony spill root beer on your carpet again." "As you say," Celia agreed, actually with a feeling of relief. She, too, was not anxious to have Tony spill root beer or anything else on her beige carpeting. "How do you like your new neighbors?" was Marcia's next question. "All right," answered Celia. "They're quite different...." "Different from what?" "Oh, sort of gay...." "You mean night parties?" "Oh, no!" Celia hastened to say. "They only moved in yesterday, and I haven't even met the husband. It's just that the house and furniture are all bright colors and she dresses to match." "That doesn't sound too bad," said Marcia. "No. And, anyway, they don't....' she was about to add "have any boys," but with Marcia's three that wouldn't sound right. So she finished with "have a dog to bark any time it hears a siren." As she dusted, later in the day, she noticed that Henry had left his chair where she had put it. A couple of times he had moved it back again. She guessed that it was just a notion that he couldn't see as well in that light. All he needed was to get used to it. That evening as they were eating dinner, they heard the strumming of a guitar next door. "That 102 sounds peppy," said Henry. "It's a Mexican dance tune. I wonder if my old guitar is still around." "No, it isn't," answered Celia. "We gave it to one of the girls years ago. This is the first time since you've ever mentioned it." "I guess you're right." After dinner Henry went outside and over to the fence. "Hi," he called. "T sure like your music." "Good," answered Mr. Andrews. "Come on over and [ll play your favorite." Henry went over and Celia could hear them laughing and playing the guitar. When she looked out, Henry had taken the instrument and was trying his hand at it again. She hoped that he wouldn't get so engrossed that he would want to get himself another one. After all—at his age—a man should settle down. Well, come to think of it, Henry certainly had_= settled down. This was the first time she had heard him "carrying on" like this in years. T he next morning she was awakened by one of the Andrews' cars driving out at dawn. Later, she called Kathy to say, "I hope that nothing was wrong this morning. When I heard you driving out I thought there might be an emergency." "Not at all," Kathy answered breezily. "We just drove up on the hillside to watch the dawn. It's a marvelous sight. Especially at this time of the year." Celia Mott spent the morning polishing silver. What an outlandish thing to do, anyway, she couldn't help thinking, to get up in the dark and drive out to watch the dawn. It didn't make sense, no matter how you looked at it. When Marcia, Charles, and the children came on Saturday she had set two small tables on the patio, one for the boys and another for the adults. She would have put them together, but she knew that the boys would much rather eat by themselves. She was rather glad _ that Henry and Charles were broiling the meat because she was tired from going around the block on the Red Cross drive. When Henry had suggested that she ask Kathy to help, she had replied, "That scatter-brain! She would probably forget all about it and spend the day making rose petal sachet. That's what she did yesterday." After dinner the boys were sitting around, clearly waiting for time to go home, when Kathy called over the fence, ''Hi, fellows! Would you like to borrow my bow and arrow set?" "Oh, Boy! Tl say!" cried Jimmy, while Matt and Tony all but leaped the fence in their eagerness. Kathy brought it out and Henry set up the target in the rear of the yard. As Celia was gathering up the dishes, she was half provoked at herself for not thinking of some amusement for the boys and half at Kathy for thinking of it in her place. When the time came for the boys to go home, they thanked her most profusely for the good time they had had. Celia assured them that she had enjoyed it, too, and vowed inwardly that she would have a bow and arrow set for them the next time they came-or something as interesting. The New Neighbor During the next few days she saw Kathy dancing, what seemed to be a tarantella, to the music of the radio. She came over and asked for some nasturtium leaves to scatter on their sandwiches, and she climbed to the top of her house and fastened a weathervane to the roof. So Celia was not too much surprised to see her show up at the front door with four of the Pysklo children from down the street. They were looking more grimy and unkempt than usual —if that was possible. Kathy smiled brightly at Celia and said, "The children's mother has gone to the hospital and they are all alone. I'm trying to find places for them to stay. Mrs. Watkins has taken the baby, and Mrs. Radcliff the two-yearold. I thought that if you could take the eldest two, then I could manage the ones in between." For a moment, Celia could only stand there aghast as she thought of her exquisite spare bedroom with the blue satin spread and tufted pillows. Then 

103 February 1968

 she said, "I just don't see how I can. My house isn't in shape for little boys. But I'll be glad to do something for them—cook a meal or do some ironing. Maybe there is someone else who can take them?" "Thank you very much," said Kathy. "No, there isn't anyone else in the neighborhood. I've tried them all. Mrs. Jenkins has a headache, and the woman next door has company coming—
