[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 142 | Lesson | Spiritual Living The Church and Its Purposes | Roy W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 88—The Church and Its Purposes Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates. INTRODUCTION When the Holy Priesthood was restored in the last days, the organization of the true Church upon the earth was effected, on April 6, 1830. One of the confirmatory evidences of the Lord's instituting his Church, in 1830, is its name. Despite the fact that hundreds of "Christian" churches were organized before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, yet that Church is the only one which carries the full name of the 142 Founder of the Christian religion. THE NAME OF THE CHURCH The word of the Lord, as given in Section 115 of the Doctrine and Covenants, made known the name by which his Church would be known from that time forth: And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my church in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, scattered abroad in all the world; For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus 'Christ of Latter-day Saints. (verses 3-4.) While ministering among the Nephites, the resurrected Savior gave the most complete information concerning the reason for his Church being named for him. His disciples asked him what name should be given to the Church which he was organizing among them. The Lord reminded them that they should take upon themselves his name and those who remained faithful to the end would be saved. Then this message was given to them: Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my sake. And how be it my church save it be called in my name? For if a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel. (3 Nephi 27:7-8.) LATTER-DAY SAINTS The' Savior then promised his disciples that since it was his Church, if they prayed for the Church in his name, the Father would hear them. (3 Nephi 27: 9-12.), Appended to the title, The Church of Jesus Christ, is the important name Latter-day Saints. Because this Church was organized in the last days, it carries this name. As Elder James E. Talmage points out, the word "Saint" has a very special meaning in this title. The word means "holy" when used as an adjective, but as a noun it means "a holy one." Therefore, members of this Lesson Department Church profess to be holy ones. This definition does not mean that the member of the Church is without blemish or blame, but it does mean, as one definition suggests, that "holy" applies to exclusive service in the cause of God. (Conference Report, April 1922, page 72.) As the saints are set apart from the world by a covenant of baptism, so they are a chosen generation, a holy nation, and a peculiar people, upon whom rests the responsibility of living in accordance with gospel truths. (1 Peter 2:9.) Theirs is the responsibility to learn to live in unity, to be of "one accord, of one mind." (Ph. Pa 2) Latter-day Saints are not peculiar because of dress, looks, or other characteristics, but, rather, due to their religious beliefs and practices based upon those beliefs. Elder John A, Widtsoe once pointed out the differences which make this people peculiar as follows: (1) the belief that the Church was founded on direct revelation from God; (2) the Church is the only true Church upon the earth possessing the Holy Priesthood; (3) the body of doctrine and beliefs constitutes a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ; (4) the truth that gospel principles must be applied in one's life; (5) the members of the Church have the courage to live its teachings. (Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 41-45.) THE GOSPEL AND THE CHURCH In the scriptures the words "gospel" and "Church" are syn- 'onymous as to their purpose. 

143 February 1968

 The gospel consists of principles and ordinances by which salvation may come to the believer. The Church, on the other hand, is the organization of these believers. For all intent and purposes when one speaks of the gospel as the means of salvation, he might also say that the Church is the means by which believers in the gospel receive salvation. Without the gospel there would be no Church, and without the Church there would not be the means by which the gospel could be administered. When the Priesthood is on the earth, the Church is the instrument through which that authority functions. The Priesthood makes it possible for men to receive salvation ordinances. (D&C 84:19, 26, 27.) In this lesson we will consider that when the scriptures speak of the gospel or the Church, they are the same for, as pointed out, the one without the other will not bring salvation. A DIVINE COMMISSION After giving the Church its full name, the Lord gave a charge to his Church and its members as follows: Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations. (D&C 115:5.) To every member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints the Lord has given this responsibility. Each one is instructed to exert his influence among men that the accumulative hght of all members of the Church may be a standard for all people. 144 It is destined that the gospel of Jesus Christ should be a light to the world—the means by which the nations would receive direction in governing their people in the ways of security and peace. In addition, the gospel is a standard or guide fo the members of the Church, and also for the nonmember that may seek it. (D&C 45:9.) Class Discussion Specifically, how may a woman member of the Church contribute to the goal of her light being a standard for others to follow? PURPOSES OF THE CHURCH The scriptures reveal that there are three major responsibilities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect the lives of the members of the Church; (3) to make it possible for the member of the Church to save his dead. There are other purposes for the restoration of the gospel, but they may be included in the three major ones mentioned above. If the member of the Church is to let his light shine forth that others may be influenced by it, then it would seem that his covenant obligation would be fulfilled through these purposes. Not just one of the programs of the Church, but all of them are necessary for salvation. PREACH THE GOSPEL Throughout the dispensation the Church has promulgated the gospel through a unique missionary 'program. The contribu- tion of thousands of missionaries to making the gospel known among the nations of the earth, has produced an energetic and devoted leadership in the Church that has helped the work progress. If the member of the Church is to fulfill his covenant with the Lord, he will accept the inspired statement of President David O. McKay: "Every member a missionary." All members of the Church do not have the opportunity for a formal mission, but each member may perform missionary work in these ways: (1) respond to mission service, stake or foreign, if eligible; (2) induce nonmembers of the Church to accept the opportunity to hear the missionaries; (3) live an exemplary life that the fruits of the gospel may be known for what they are intended —a happy and worthwhile life; (4) develop a family life that will shine forth, in parents and children, that is beyond reproach; (5) plan that family members may serve in the mission field. Class Discussion Take each one of the five foregoing opportunities and ask this question: Is this privilege attainable in my life and, if so, what may I do to bring about this desirable objective? PERFECT THE LIVES OF MEMBERS The second major purpose for which the Church has been restored is to assist the member of the Church to bring his life into harmony with the principal objective of the gospel—the perfection that will eventually Lesson Department bring eternal life in God's presence. (Matt. 5:48; 3 Nephi 12:48; Moses 1:39.) Wherein does the gospel provide the means by which the member. Of the Church may perfect his life? By baptism, by both water and Spirit, there is provided the gift of the Holy Ghost that brings innumerable helps to continue along the way to perfection. Prominent among these are the gifts of the Holy Ghost which are to be sought for after baptism that one may not be deceived. (D&C 46:7-26.) Organizationally through the Church, manifold opportunities are provided whereby the person may (1) have fellowship with fellow members; (2) find strength from and fellowship with Christ through partaking of the sacrament worthily; (3) receive opportunities for service to others through teaching and leadership positions. Class Discussion Show wherein the foregoing three privileges help the Relief Society member of the Church to perfect her life. - LEARN THE GOSPEL How can a member of the Church shine forth that his hght may be a standard for his family and associates without knowing how to make or improve that light? From the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, we find ways in which the revelations have affected for good the lives of those who sought perfection. (D&C 1:24-28.) In order to relate these points to the commandment to study the gospel, perhaps we could put these 

145 February 1968

 ideas in question form: (1) How does one know when he errs or makes mistakes which are contrary to what the Lord has revealed? (2) Unless one knows what it means to observe a commandment, how will one learn of what he is to repent? For example, do you know what the Lord requires of his people in the observance of the Sabbath day? (D&C 59:5-24.) (3) May a person be truly humble without an understanding of the principle of humility, as God requires humility? (4) How will one receive knowledge, from time to time, without seeking for that knowledge? Furthermore, will revelation be received for individual guidance and blessing unless the conditions are met that entitle one to revelation? The Lord has blessed his people with the institutional means by which they may perfect their lives. Class Discussion Am I reading the spiritual] living lessons in The Relief Society Magazine, and failing to study the Doctrine and Covenants itself? TO SAVE THE DEAD The final major responsibility of the Church is to provide the means whereby the members may fulfill their covenant obligation to their kindred dead. Without the Church there would not be the means whereby the dead might be saved. First, the keys of this work are in the Church, and without them there could not be a valid ordinance performed. Second, the physical facilities for baptisms for the dead, endowments, and sealings are pos- 146 sible through the Church. Third, a rich storehouse of genealogical data is in the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that:... Those Saints who neglect it [baptism for the dead] in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. (DHC IV:426.) IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints belong to a Church which is God-organized and God-directed. They have taken upon themselves sacred covenants that they will live to merit the name "Saint." It is their objective to assist in making the Church independent above all things under heaven. They know that this is possible if they individually and collectively seek to unify their efforts to build Zion upon the earth. When they read the scriptures, they learn how to live to fulfill their purpose in life. Since Latter-day Saints are citizens of God's kingdom, they know they have privileges and opportunities which are possible because the gospel and_ the Church have been restored to perform three major functions: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect their lives; (3) to work for the salvation of their kindred dead. Their lives must be a part of these for they know it is the sure way to salvation here and in the eternal worlds. Their hearts rejoice in contemplation of the Lord's promises, such as this one: Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church. (D&C 100:15.)