[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Devereaux]
Price of a Hair-do Ruth I. Devereaux [' was a blustery afternoon and Neil seemed to carry part of the atmospheric condition in with him. Not only in the way he bounded into the house, but also in the way he blurted out, "Gee, Mom, do you think I could?" "Do I think you could, what?" his mother answered, "and please close the door before the house is full of dust." "You remember," Neil continued hurriedly, "what we were discussing last night about my taking private trumpet lessons and you said, we'd see." He paused for an answer, but as none was forthcoming he anxiously tried another angle. "I found out that Mr. Mayes does teach privately, and he just lives through the block and he only charges $2.50 a lesson!" His enthusiasm had reached its peak, and he nervously viewed his mother's face. The answer was still pending, but now Mother was actually thinking.... And Neil continued, "I thought maybe if I had a few lessons I might be able to make first chair in the band this year." His voice drawled out into a pleading tone, and his forehead acquired that odd little wrinkle above one eye which was characteristic of trying to be grown up over a situation about which he wanted so much to burst into tears. And Mother was really thinking. She knew how much he had wanted to be first chair trumpet. She knew how he always wanted to be first in everything. She also knew that the teacher was a good one and was a neighbor, but what Mother was really weighing in her mind was the $2.50 item. How could she manage it? That much more out of the food budget and they'd be practically living on beans. It seemed that there had been so many things lately, the new roof had cost more than they had planned, school would soon be starting, and there were clothes to buy for all three children... And then it came to her! Oh, no, not that! For years she had dreamed of the time when she could go to the beauty parlor to have her hair done. This was an extravagance she had never afforded before, but she had finally convinced herself that she just couldn't do anything with her hair; that she owed it to herself; and so on.... Her weekly appointments had begun two months ago, and it had seemed like heaven to go and relax while someone else did the task she had dreaded each week. But as she weighed the item in question with the fervent plea of a son with music in his heart—gradually the scales favored the request and Mother graciously replied, "You may call Mr. Mayes and see if he has a time for you." "Gee, Mom, you're swell," Neil beamed. Ill call him right now, and I promise to practice hard." He gave his mother a quick squeeze and a kiss on the cheek before dashing into the other room to telephone. That all happened six months ago. School began, and just as Neil had promised, he practiced hard. In fact, he practiced so hard that occasionally it seemed that the walls of the house might give way under the volume, and, at times, his mother felt as if her ears could bear no more. However, she quietly concealed her feelings and gradually, day by day, the notes became softer and sweeter, and, before long, tuneful melodies filled each crevice of the house. At school, Neil had gained his coveted position in the band. But tonight, his being first chair trumpet seemed to have lost its significance. Discordant notes were long since forgotten. Here in the crowded chapel on Christmas Eve, Neil raised his gleaming trumpet to his lips. His father proudly played the organ interlude, and the majestic tones, "Hark, the herald angels sing, glory to the new-born King," were echoed throughout the building. Deep in Neil's mother's heart, nothing else seemed to matter now. No sacrifice could have been too great, least of all... The price of a hair-do. Page 836 From The Field =e ww Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ada S. Van Dam NETHERLANDS MISSION HANDICRAFT DISPLAY — A MISSION-WIDE EVENT Standing at the left: Ada S. Van Dam, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society. Standing at the right: Maria S. Schippers, Secretary, Netherlands Mission Relief Society. In commenting upon this lovely display, Sister Van Dam reports: "Each Relief Society in the mission submitted a few of its choicest articles of handwork for this exhibit. 'The workmanship was of the finest, and the quality of material was excellent— resulting in each article bemg an outstanding item. We were extremely proud of these articles which were made by our Netherlands Relief Society sisters." Page 83/7 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Myrle B. Johansen EMERY STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, April 21, 1955 Seated, second row, second from the right: Mary E. Allen, eighty-seven years old, who has been a visiting teacher for sixty-two years. Seated, fourth row, at the left: Surelda C. Ralphs, former president, Emery Stake Relief Society. Seated next to Sister Ralphs: Irene Zwahlen, literature class leader. Many of the teachers in this group have served fifty years. All the visiting teachers who had served twenty years or more were especially honored at the convention, each teacher receiving a ribbon telling the number of years of her service. Myrle B. Johansen, President, Emery Stake Relief Society reports: "The day this picture was taken, I looked over the audience during the program, and I am sure I have never seen a more beautiful group of sisters. Their faithfulness and sincerity are portrayed in the picture. I am sure Sister Ralphs loved them and felt their sustaining influence in her Relief Society work." Photograph submitted by Elsie B. North GRANITE STAKE (UTAH), WELLS WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR ELEVEN YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Eva Heiner; Florence Wright; Augusta Dietz; Edith James, First Counselor; Isabella Brooks, Second Counselor; Clara Richins, President; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 839 Florence Wallis; Emily Davey; Maud Child; Bertha Wagner; Gertrude Johnson; Margaret Borg. Second row, standing, left to nght: Mary McDonald; Eulalia Dorius; Stella Widdison; Marvel Peterson; Maize Roberts; Ina Grant; Eva Rotzler; Laura Thompson; Bada Hess; Charlotte 'Tea; Lileth Smith; Alene Smith; Mary Millward; Lena Heagun; Betty J. Layton. Third row, standing, left to right: Esther Johnson; Ethel Foote; Fern Rasmusson. Back row, standing, left to right: Phyllis Thygerson, chorister; Thelma Brimley; Joy M. McDonald, Secretary; Maud Truman; Bessie McClelland, member, stake Relief Society board; Hazel Radley; Georgetta Pay; Leone Carstenson, member, stake Relief Society board; Joyce Timmerman, member, stake Relief Society board; Genure Yeates, organist; Stella Rhoads; Agnes Jones; 'Thel Sweat. Leone G. Layton, member of the General Board of Relief Society, stands in the center at the back. Elsie B.