[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
Work ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Vegetable Cookery Part I Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 13, 1956 EW foods contribute more to the eye appeal of a meal than do garden-fresh, properly cooked and attractively served vegetables. No meal need be lacking in color interest if vegetables are part of it. Cooking them the right way and for the minimum time intensifies the natural coloring of most vegetables, and even seems to improve the delicate flavor of many kinds. Cutting Vegetables Before Cooking If vegetables are left in such large pieces for cooking that the cooking time is prolonged, a loss of color, flavor, and nutrition value results. Vegetables cut into half-inch strips may be cooked quickly and with very little loss, in either a regular saucepan or a pressurized pan. Cutting vegetables too fine results in flavor, color, and nutritive loss, if they are overcooked. However, if they are cooked just until tender and served immediately they are superior in every way. Carrots, beets, and parsnips are delicious when, after peeling, they are shredded on a salad grater that makes shreds about the size of a pencil, then put in a heavy saucepan with a close fitting lid. One or two tablespoons of water is all that is needed if the heat is just high enough to keep steam forming. No more than about five minutes cooking time is needed. Stir at least once for evenness of cooking. Vegetables cut in this way also may be panfried. Add two tablespoons butter or meat drippings to the pan for each quart of vegetables. When the fat is melted, add the vegetables, cover the pan tightly, and cook about five minutes over heat just high enough to keep steam forming. Green beans cut into _ strips lengthwise shorten the cooking time and add variety and interest to this frequently served vegetable. The color is a bright green when they are cooked just until done. Removing the stems from spinach, and the stems and heavy mb sections from chard, cuts the cooking time almost in half. Stems of these vegetables are comparatively low in food and nutritive value. If you use them, cook them separately or until they are practically done before adding the leafy portion. LESSON DEPARTMENT Amount of Water Onions, if cooked in a fairly large proportion of rapidly boiling water, are more palatable to the taste of many people than when cooked in a small amount of water. With some vegetables it may be worthwhile, for improved flavor, to sacrifice the loss of some nutrients, which results when a large amount of water is used. However, strong flavors in most vegetables come only after they are overcooked. Length of Cooking Time Overcooking is one of the worst destroyers of color, the sweet natural flavor, and the healthful nutrients. Some vegetables, when overcooked, become flat and insipid or, worse still, strong and unpleasant with an odor to match. The green pigment in vegetables is rapidly destroyed by heat and acid. Both of them have a chance to do their damage when vegetables are overcooked. The acid which causes the trouble comes from the vegetable itself, but it will do no damage if the vegetables are cooked just until tender. Most soft water is alkaline and is, therefore, good for vegetable cookery. Adding just the right amount of salt for flavor to the water in which vegetables are to be cooked, improves the color of green vegetables and helps to prevent vitamin loss. Utensils for Cooking Vegetables There are two general methods of cooking fresh vegetables. One is in a regular saucepan, and the other in a pressurized pan. When using a regular pan, select one that has a close-fitting lid. Add about one- 847 fourth inch water and the desired amount of salt. Experiment until you find a quantity of water that is needed so there will be not more than one-half cup of liquid in the pan when the vegetables are cooked. When the water boils, add the vegetables, then place the lid on the pan. Let it remain there except for a few seconds at the beginning of the boiling period. Lifting the lid at that time allows some of the volatile acids to escape in steam. If retained in the pan, they dull the fresh, bright color of green vegetables. Use only enough heat to keep the water boiling and cook the vegetables just until tender. The pressure saucepan is being used more and more for vegetable cookery. 'The temperature reached is sufficiently high to shorten cooking time enough so that the color remains good, in some cases even better than in the open kettle. Precautions must be taken not to use more than the prescribed amount of vegetables for a given size of saucepan. If the amount is too large, the cooking period is prolonged and some of the natural color is lost. When using a pressure saucepan, it is especially important to check cooking time; a minute or two more than is required, may defeat all advantages gained in the use of this kind of pan. Follow explicitly the prescribed instructions that come with your cooker as to the amount of water to use, cooking time, and releasing of pressure. Vegetables that are properly cooked need very little seasoning added to make them appetite appealing. However, seasoning does add interest and variety to frequent- 848 ly prepared vegetables. Next month we will talk about more of the interesting ways vegetables may be prepared. Suggestions to Class Leader 1. Demonstrate the different methods RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 of cooking vegetables as presented in the lesson. 2. Discuss using the liquid in which the vegetables have been cooked. 3. Discuss loss of vitamins through improper storage of fresh vegetables, peeling, delayed cooking, and _ serving. 4. Discuss frozen and canned vegetables. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article '""Vegetables — A Different Way Every Day," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 826 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine.