[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Vegetables | Author: Gardner]
[Vegetables — A Different Way Every Day — Part I Rhea H. Gardner]
Uegetaoies  -  v^x    ^Jjifferent   Vl/ay^    iovery   Ujai/ 
Part  I 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension  Service  Home  Management  and  Furnishings  Speciahst 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
npHERE  are  so  many  different  kinds  of  vegetables  and  so  many  different  ways  to  serve 
-■•       each  kind,  there  need  never  be  any  monotony  in  the  vegetable  part  of  the  dinner 
or  luncheon  menu.    Authorities  in  the  field  of  health  and  nutrition  recommend  that  we 
eat  at  least  three  vegetables  each  day. 
Variety  in  the  kinds  of  vegetables  selected  and  the  methods  for  preparing  them 
make  the  task  of  the  cook  more  interesting  and  meals  more  appealing. 
Vegetable  greens  are  available  in  most  areas  the  year  round.  They  are  particularly 
abundant  in  the  springtime,  both  at  the  fresh  vegetable  market  and  on  the  farm. 
Dandelion  greens  are  among  the  first  wild  greens  to  pop  through  the  ground  in  the 
spring.  Gather  them  before  buds  or  blossoms  appear,  if  possible.  When  cutting  them, 
extend  the  knife  down  into  the  ground  almost  to  the  root,  before  cutting  through  the 
plant.  The  white  part  below  the  soil  Hne  is  the  least  bitter  and  most  tender.  If  some 
buds  have  already  formed,  check  the  greens  very  carefully  to  remove  each  tiny  bud  for 
they  are  very  bitter.  Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  lifting  the  greens  up  out  of 
the  water  after  each  washing.  Kale,  young  turnip  tops,  beet  tops,  spinach,  and  chard 
are  other  greens  that  are  delicious. 
Cook  the  greens  quickly  in  an  uncovered  kettle  in  a  small  quantity  of  salted  boiling 
water.  As  soon  as  the  greens  are  tender,  drain  and  chop.  For  each  2  cups  of  cooked 
greens  add  1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  delicately  browned  in  2  tablespoons 
butter.  Add  one  tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  onion  juice,  or  2 
tablespoons  minced  onion  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  at 
once.    Garnish  with  shces  of  hard-cooked  eggs  and  strips  of  broiled  bacon. 
Potatoes  are  truly  an  American  food.  Because  they  are  a  year-round  vegetable  and 
fairly  inexpensive,  good  cooks  will  prepare  them  often  and  in  a  variety  of  ways.
