[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: The One Hundred Twenty-Sixth Semi-Annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp]
Historical celebrity, the Queen of the West —Editorial 4 ARE WE WORTHY? Yes, this is the question that often arises in my mind; now since we are called Latter-day Saints, are we worthy of this name?... I well remember that after I believed this Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught, and could see plainly it was the same in every respect, I was about to accept it with all my heart, I was asked if I could afford to be called a Saint. I replied ''No, indeed!"" I would not dare to be called a Saint. That would imply one who was holy and had arrived at perfection.... Then I was told by accepting the Gospel and obeying its laws I would thereby arrive at that state, and become a Saint, just as the former day Saints did. She (Balance of Life I fear no more the coming years What they may bring. Days will be sunless, nights bereft of stars; Mayhap the brightest blossoms of the spring Shall first be bound with winter's icy bars. But still beyond the cloud is always light, The stars are in the sky all night, And deepest snows are they which hide the bright Green heart of spring. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY IN WILLARD, BOX ELDER COUNTY: Our Relief Society was organized on the 12th of August 1895, with our aged President, Sister M. A. Hubbard, (nearly eighty years of age) still acting as president, she has been our president from the first, and her trusty counselors and members feel to try and make her responsibilities as light as possible, and are trying to do all the good they can. There have been some severe cases of typhoid fever here this fall, and some of a lighter form, but all are getting better now.... Praying God to bless all who labor in the good cause. —Bethiah T. Wells, Sec. HELEN KELLER; Helen Keller is said to have the sense of touch so marvelously developed that she can recognize a person's emotions by simply placing her hand upon his or her face, even although the play of feeling is so subtle that the ordinary observer would not detect any change of expression. —Selected. Page 814 Me: FLORA AMUSSEN BENSON was presented the award ions League. Wife of Ezra Taft Benson, a met ber of the Council of the Twelve of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and Secretary of Agriculture in the Cabinet of Presi dent Eisenhower. Mrs. Benson, mother of six children, was presented the award by Mrs. Florence Friedlander, President ot the League, at a special meeting In Washington, D. C. M®: CALVIN COOLIDGE, a former teacher and president of the board of the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts, was recently appointed director of the centennial fund-raisthis institution. Was a member of the Coolidge, husband, and, later, President of the United States. M®: ZADDIE R. BUNKER, of: California, 4 Woman's Sphere Ramona \W. Cannon test to gain a license to pilot multiengined planes. CELIA LARSON LUCE, Provo, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has collaborated with her husband Willard Luce in writing the book Utah — Past and Present, a geography and history of Utah for young people. Beautifully iHustrated with scenic and __ historical photographs, the book portrays the achievements of a courageous people in their mountain home. BiRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Ann Catherine Milne, Murray, Utah, 1073 Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Salt Lake City, 102; Mrs. Amanda Sanderson Jones Pritchett, Fairview, Utah, 101; Mrs. Hilda Erickson, Grantsville, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Lydia Snow Cluff, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Miss Johanna H. Sprague, Salt Lake City, ~ Minerva Richards Young, Salt Lake City, ninetythree; Mrs. Martha Hardy McKaig, California, ninety; Mrs. Christina Graham Ericson, Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Rodabeck Young, Tooele, ninety; Mrs. Emily Cooley Wells, Orem, Utah, ninety. Page 815 QD EDITORIAL 2 VOL. 


 She One Hundred Swenty-Sixth Semi-Annual Church Conference T is a glorious privilege to be able to attend a general conference of the Church — a privilege for which hearts yearn in the lands and isles of the world where the gospel has been established in the souls of men. At the One Hundred 'TwentySixth Semi-Annual Conference of the Church which was held on September 30, October 1, and 2, 1955, these longings were especially significant as General Authorities reported on world-wide happenings of the Church among the far-away peoples whom they had visited since the last April conference. Another highlight of the conference was the report of the recent tour of the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle Choir to Great Britain and the Continent of Europe. Never up to now had the reality that the gospel will be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people been more evidenced. Thousands in the western United States who were unable to attend the sessions personally, were able through broadcasts originating with station KSL to hear the conference proceedings, including the Saturday night Priesthood meeting, by special wires to fifty-seven centers where members of the Priesthood were assembled. 'The Sunday morning sesPage 816 sion of the conference was viewed by a great unnumbered audience by television stations outside of Utah, originating with KSL-I'V. Each conference, the proceedings reach an increasing number of our Father's children. All the General Authorities of the Church were in attendance at the conference, although Elder Benson was absent from the early sessions, as he was called to Washington to attend a Cabinet Meeting convened as the result of the illness of President Dwight D. Eisenhower. It will be of interest to Relief Society members to know that, in the absence of the 'Tabernacle Chotur, the music for the two Sunday sessions was furnished by a combined Singing Mothers Chorus from some of the stakes in Idaho and Wyoming, with Sister Florence J. Madsen as conductor. In his opening and closing addresses, President McKay declared: I feel grateful and happy this morning for so many evidences of the goodness of the Lord, that I wish I could strike a note of optimism that would reverberate to the uttermost parts of the Church. There are so many things for which we should be thankful.... First, loyalty and devotion of the presiding Priesthood of the Church. Second, the vitality and EDITORIAL growth of the Church. Third, the success of the choir on its recent tour in Europe. Fourth, the dedication of the [Swiss] Temple. Fifth, the happiness we may secure by obedience to the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. By example and precept, children should be impressed with the inappropriateness of confusion and disorder in a worshiping congregation. They should be impressed in childhood, and have it emphasized in youth, that it is disrespectful to talk or even to whisper during a sermon, and that it is the height of rudeness to leave a worshiping assembly before dismissal. If there were more reverence in human hearts, there would be less room for sin and sorrow, and more increased capacity for joy and gladness. To make more cherished, more adaptable, more attractive, this gem among brilliant virtues is a project worthy of the most united and prayerful efforts of every officer, every parent, and every member of the Church Truly, it is fitting to give thanks to the Lord, and to talk of all his wondrous work; and in doing so, we must include the greatest of all of his blessings—the sending of his Only Begotten Son, to give to all our Father's children redemption, and to those who will listen and obey the Gospel, salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of our Father. Obedience to the principles of the Gospel brings happiness, and happiness is what all men seek Now, here is a final appeal at this conference for us to go home, to go back and set our homes in order. God bless you in so doing, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. N_ speaking of the missionary work, President Richards affirmed: The first specific item which I shall mention is the need for more people to serve in these missionary callings. Young men are well adapted to missionary service. They have the physical 817 strength and stamina; they have the mental alertness; they have the adaptability and the buoyancy of youth, and when properly conditioned for the service, they have the spiritual receptiveness to bring them a firmness of conviction and testimony that becomes contagious to those whom they serve We extend our appreciation for the good offices of this State's Representatives in Congress and their friends in bringing about a Congressional Historical Record in the legislation extending the Draft Act, which clearly recognizes in the interpretation of the statute the exemptability of our missionaries as ministers of religion We can use young women of eligible age, health, and spiritual qualifications in the missionary service. 'They have performed an outstanding work in foreign and local missions. We have need for married couples in the missions—men and women of maturity and experience whose families have been raised, who can go into the missions and not only proselyte but teach to branches of the mission the great principles of self-government In the stakes and wards of Zion the Lord has caused to be set up divisions of his kingdom. God grant that the Latter-day Saints in these divisions may have the courage, the vision, the devotion, and the strength of character to make these divisions of the kingdom effective and impressive background for the proclamation of this Gospel by his missionaries. RESIDENT Clark, in speaking on the need of Church members testifying on the divinity of Christ, asserted: Today, the great Christian world are retreating from their early and true belief in Jesus as the Christ. 'They are explaining him in different ways. They are taking away from him his divinity We of our faith know that Jesus of 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Nazareth is the Christ. This is our knowledge. We must proclaim it at all times and under all circumstances. Jesus of Nazareth was the one who was chosen before the world was, the Only Begotten of the Father, to come to earth to perform this service, to conquer mortal death, which would atone for the fall, that the spirit of man could recover his body, so reuniting them. We frequently are told and understand that not alone did Christ atone for the "original sin," so-called, but that he atones for our sins, generally. As I understand it, so far as the resurrection is concerned, the overcoming of mortal death, he did atone for our sins. That is to say, no matter what we do here on earth, even though we commit the unpardonable sin, yet the atonement of Christ will for that purpose and to that end atone for our sins, and so will bring about our resurrection. But after the resurrection, then we have to be judged according to the deeds of the flesh, good or bad. On the judgment day we will receive our rewards or punishments; we must pay for our own sins. So, as I conceive it, we must stand adamant for the doctrine of the atonement of Jesus the Christ, for the divinity of his conception, for his sinless life, and for, shall I say, the divinity of his death, his voluntary surrender of life. He was not killed; he gave up his life. It is our mission, perhaps the most fundamental purpose of our work, to bear constant testimony of Jesus the Christ. Only those who have the light of the gospel to illumine their lives and their every action can appreciate the meaning to Latter-day Saints of the great privilege of partaking of the blessings accruing from a general conference of the Church, a blessing, moreover, which is available to saints through the printed word. The opening note sounded by President McKay of gratitude to the Lord for blessings touched a reverberating chord in the hearts of the saints to harmonize in their souls until the next conference, with the fervent prayer that each may live to be worthy of those blessings. —M. C. S.