[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: What Should Cox]

eping, but never again really living, until her days, too, should be finished. She entered the gate, and weary from her walk, but more weary from the meanderings of her mind, she seated herself on a rustic bench built artistically between two shade trees.
There was no need to hurry in.
Inside there was nothing for her to do. It was always, 'No, Grandmother, you sit down and rest. We'll soon be through."
They meant to be kind. And perhaps it was for the best that she be kept from heavy house-work. For her legs were stiff from rheumatic pains, and her hands were quite unsteady. Before Ira's death, they had lived alone together, the two old people. She had cooked and washed and mended for the two of them quite the same as she had always done, and people had been wont to remark how spry she was. But since Ira had left her, something had happened to her. She felt broken in body and spirit. She wished she might have gone, too. Why must she go on living? She was not needed here. Her children were all self-sufficient, grown, married, some of them with married children of their own. But still she must live on, a burden to herself at least, if not to the children who, she knew, loved her devotedly, and wished to care for her in their homes and make her life as happy as possible. But a mother's joy is not in being served, but in doing for her children, and when she feels she can no longer do for them, then for her at least life has lost its meaning. So it was with Susan Abbey.
Since there seemed to be no future for her to think about, she must needs recreate the past. She had been a pretty girl when she was young, slender and graceful. She looked down at her hands, wrinkled and gnarled. It was hard to believe they could ever have been young.
What a priceless thing youth is!
Much too precious to be bestowed upon the young who take it so for granted, who never stop to think that it will pass one day. She sighed with the weariness of age. At least it was nice to remember she had been pretty. And Ira! So tall, so straight, so upright.
They had been ideally happy together to the very end. She thought of her children one by one, the six in their order and the wee one they had laid away in a tiny grave before its life had scarce begun.
What glory, that memory of chubby arms about her neck, of baby laughter, of rollicking, pattering THE GRANDMOTHER youthful feet. And then the emptiness as each one had married and they had been left alone, a middle-aged couple growing daily older. But at least they had had each other, and all these things, the sadness and the joy, had welded their hearts into one. And now he was gone. No wonder she felt only half alive. No wonder life seemed empty, aching. For the sake of her children who were good and kind, she had tried to be brave and smile. All her life she had felt that each human being had enough troubles of his own without being made miserable by another's whining. All her life she had hidden the aches her heart had been called upon to suffer. But now it was almost too hard. For a brief moment she gave herself to the cruelest of all things, self-pity. How she longed for a return of the days when her little brood had been around her.
When there had been sticky hands to wash, grimy necks and ears to scrub, hungry little mouths to fill, sleepy eyes to lull to rest. But now her children were doing these things for their children and she was no longer needed. She was in the way, and useless. BRISK steps upon the walk caused her to look up and strain her near-sighted eyes for recognition. It was Emily, her granddaughter, who had been married less than a year. She did not live very far from her mother so it was no matter for wonder to see her come lightly through the gate, for her visits were very frequent. Nonetheless, the old lady was surprised that the young girl walked straight to her before going into the house. Not so much by that fact perhaps, for all the grandchildren were affectionate toward her