[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 46 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Marie J. Maher]

By Marie J. Maher THE custom of having Old Folks' Day, I am told, started back in '76, or thereabouts. It happened this way: Mr. McCune and Mr.
Savage were walking along a street of Salt Lake City, nodding and smiling in a friendly manner to all whom they met.
Finally they turned in at the home of one of their old friends to bid him the time of day, only to find none of his family home except the real little ones, who were being cared for by their grandparents. "When do you take your outing?" inquired Mr.
Savage of the grandmother. "Oh," she smiled, "Our days for good times are over. If we get enough to eat, a fire in winter to sit by, a cradle to rock, we have our pleasure." The two men walked on down the street to find many other cases where the old folks were taking care of their grand-babies while the parents were away.
There were no complaints from these elderly babytenders.
They were cheerful and happy about it. "Seems to me," said Mr. McCune, "these old folks should have their day, too." "You are right," said Mr. Savage. "We must see that they have an outing, also!" UNLIKE so many generous ideas that are talked about but never materialize, this one went through, A DAY FOR THE OLD FOLKS for these two men gathered others together, and planned the first Old Folks' Day. All the old people met in a grove that first year, and they have met one day each year ever since in all the towns of Utah, on the most convenient day for the individual communities. ON Thursday, the eighteenth of June, 1936, Ogden honored her old folks, and nearly two thousand of them gathered in Lorin Farr Park. No attention was paid to nationality or religion: the only passport needed was Old Age. The honored guests must have seen at least seventy years.
Seventy and eighty years were given a red badge, from eighty to ninety a blue one, and a few proudly wore the white badge, showing that they were ninety years old or more.
This was my first Old Folks' party, and my friends and I arrived early. At ten minutes to eleven there were a few workers on the grounds, setting up cookstoves and refrigerators, and arranging the easy chairs and sofas for the infirm. The leaders of the different wards were there, and committee women hurried to and fro.
Then it was eleven o'clock and cars began rolling into the grounds, from long shining cars down to little shaky one-ton trucks, all disgorging old people.
Some of them were straight and sprightly, some leaned on others for support, a few were carried in on stretchers.
Wheel chairs were common, One man came in staring straight ahead of him, looking neither to the right nor left. We thought he might be too aristocratic for the common herd, but found later that he always stared straight ahead of him from necessity.
Those between - 425 FORTY tables, each seating about that many people, were laid under the shade trees, and without benefit of place cards one found oneself (miraculously) seated beside some old friend one had loved but had not seen for years.
Dinner was served promptly at twelve, and no one who ever sat at one of those tables will ever forget it.
Baked ham such as no Kentuckian ever excelled; fried chicken —huge platters heaped with goldenbrown, delectable portions which were pressed upon us until we felt like crying, "Help!"
Every variety of vegetable was represented at that dinner.
Then the tables were cleared, and dark and white layer cake was passed; and when white layer cake is good it is a family tradition. To top the feast, we were served strawberries and ice cream. HAPPY from plenty of good food and congenial company, the grandmothers and grandfathers, with a liberal sprinkling of great grandmothers and fathers, wandered in clusters of twos and threes from ward to ward assemblage, greeting old friends. ENTERTAINING programs were now put on for the guests; the songs they had loved long ago were sung again. As I passed one group a strong young voice was singing a humerous song and the old people beating time with their feet.
Walking on, I found the scene changed.
This ward was_ sentimental; the old folks seemed to enjoy themselves immensely being sad.
Some were even wiping their eyes as they sang, "In a corner obscure and alone, they have whetted a slab of the granite so gray, and Sweet Alice lies under the stone." 426 At another place "Roll Along, Prairie Wagon, Roll Along," fairly shook the ground. IN some parts of the grounds the guests were just visiting.
There was no one here to frown on grandma when she held the center of the stage, telling about her infirmities.
Home remedies were freely discussed, and the days recalled when there were no hospitals and the midwife brought into the world the future statesmen, lawyers, and doctors. One pioneer with flowing beard and dimmed eyes recalled the time when he was camping by a road in Idaho, and a young Indian and his squaw came along: "The woman appeared very ill. I invited them to come and eat, and gave them bread, coffee and bacon.
Pretty soon the young squaw, without comment, got up and went off alone into the sagebrush. We hitched up our teams and prepared to clear camp, but before we drove on the young Indian woman came back carrying a tiny, new red papoose in her arms. The Indian women are 'heap strong'," he observed. "Another time," this pioneer related, "a band of my mules got away from me, and joined a herd of wild Indian ponies, up in the Reservation north of Pocatello, Idaho. I asked some Indians to try to get my mules back for me, which they did. As a reward, I gave each one of them a red shirt which pleased them mightily, and for a long time afterwards a red shirt was not an uncommon sight on an Indian." "Those were the days of quick shooting," observed another old. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE timer, "Many of the pioneers carried forty-five calibre revolvers. The cost of them was about fortyfive dollars in Salt Lake City. We used to practice shooting, never taking aim, but just shooting by instinct. I could drive a tack at three rods with one of those six-shooters." Next I paused to listen to two old ladies exchanging reminiscences of the early days: "I was sent to a neighbor's to get a candle mold, and delayed to play with the children instead of starting for home at once. At last I noticed the sun had set, and grabbing the mold. I lit out for home. I had to go through some timber, and I heard wolves howling somewhere in it. I was so scared that chills chased each other up and down my spine. I imagined I saw long gray shadows through the trees. The most welcome sight of my life was my brother coming on horseback to meet me, yelling like a Commanche Indian." The other old lady said, "When we need a paper of pins now we order them from the store, but I mind the time when my sister and I picked long thorns off'n the gooseberry bushes. And they made good pins, too. And do you recall how we forked potatoes out from the hills of new potatoes with a table fork? If we didn't have any luck, there was no supper that night." THE busy committee ladies were helping the old folks up to the tables for their second meal that day.
They were growing weary from so much talking and excitement. But sound sleep would visit their couches that night as a result of their glad day spent in the open. Happenings