[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 54 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson I Some Mormon CoNTRIBUTIONS TO AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE LIFE AND TEACHINGS OF CHRIST N this and the following lessons there are pointed out a number of distinctive Mormon contributions to Christ's life and work. In many respects the point of view of the Latter-day Saints is entirely different from that of the world.
Those who desire to further pursue their studies as here indicated, and who have library facilities, may do so by comparing points of view expressed in the following list of books. The starred books are Mormon publications. Smith?*Gospel Doctrine. Smith?*The Way To Perfection. Talmage?*Jesus The Christ. Talmage?*The Articles of Faith. Gray?Critical Introduction to the Old Testament. McFadyen?Introduction To The Old Testament. Scott?Literature of The New Testament. Dana?New Testament Criticism. Klausner?Jesus of Nazareth. Case?E-xrperience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times. 1. The Time of Christ's Birth ?
Many scholars have attempted to determine precisely the date of Christ's birth. However, we shall not here presume to point out the various lines of reasoning and methods used by those who have sought to fix this important mile post in world history.
Suffice it to say that very able scholars disagree upon the year of our Savior's birth. The results range all the way from B. C. 1 to B. C. 9 with B. C. 4 being in all probability the most acceptable mean date. Dr. Joseph Klausner in his book, Jesus of Nagareth, is of the opinion that Jesus "was born in the reign of Augustus two to four years before the Christian era." Now two of our modern scriptures enable Latter-day Saints to more precisely point out the time of our Lord's birth. The Book of Mormon has several helpful references.
Nephi definitely shows that "even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews?even a Messiah, or in other words, a Savior of the world." (1
Nephi 10:4; compare 1
Nephi 19:8; 2
Nephi 25:19.) The Nephite scripture records the fact that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave Jerusalem "in the commencement ot the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah." (1
Nephi 1:4, 2:2-4.) Zedekiah's reign must have commenced, therefore, about three years earlier than ordinarily supposed. The fulfilment of the Nephite prophets' predictions are recorded in 3
Nephi 1:1-21. One should read also in this connection the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite. (Helaman 14:2-7.) The Nephite people were given a marvelous sign of Christ's birth which occurred according to our reckoning in the year B. C. 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (20:1) seems to point out even the day of Christ's birth. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in LESSON DEPARTMENT the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." The exact date of Christ's birth is thus set on April 6, B. C. 1. Some people may feel this contribution to be of little importance. We feel that any contribution made to our knowledge of the Christ is of value. The consecrated labors of thousands of scholars are a testimony to that opinion. 2. The Problem of the Virgin Birth?lIn times past comparatively few people doubted the simple straightforward stories of the birth of Christ as related in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. While there have been those through the centuries who have been doubters, it is within comparatively recent times that the scepticism has become so pronounced. From some recent books on early Christian history one would almost glean the idea that the Palestinian of Christ's day, indeed most of the peoples of the Mediterranean world, were living in a fool's paradise of supernaturalism. Examples are cited from the literature paralleling practically every miracle mentioned in the New Testament, including Christ's miraculous birth. The conclusion we are supposed to draw is that the gospel stories simply reflect the naive and crude thinking of the day. We doubt not the individual examples brought forward to sustain this point of view, but we do very seriously doubt that Christ's followers were much less stable in their views of life than we are today. The chances are that they were very much like ourselves. Even if this were not so, there is no definite proof that Christ was not born in the manner stated by Matthew and Luke. Aside from all this we have the assurance of the Book of Mormon that 455
Christ was born in the manner mentioned by the gospels. Nephi's vision in which he was shown a virgin "bearing a child in her arms" leaves us with little doubt in the matter. (1
