[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 50 | Category: Article | Title: Article by James Whitcomb]

By James Whitcomb Riley. Copyright 1914.
Used by special permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company. SONNET By Alice Lee Eddy "Earth turns no beaten wanderer from her breast But heals him with her sunshine and her rain." She comforts him with hills and fields of grain, Refreshes him with lake and mountain crest, Soothes him with snows, and perfumed winds Spring-blest. No bleeding prodigal has sought in vain The solace of her silences, or lain Upon her verdant bosom without rest. She strengthens him with discipline of toil, Renews his courage with the marching years.
Some primal alchemy in warm black soil Blots out the bitterness of dismal tears. No one so vile but night can hide his scars, And none so low he cannot know the stars. The Great White Throne By H. R. Merrill AMONG the wonders of Utah two that are widely known are the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and the Great White Throne. The one is in Salt Lake City, the other in Zion National Park, more than 300 miles away.
Many interested people have dreamed of getting the two together. Obviously, the Throne could not be moved; therefore, it became necessary, if the miracle was to be worked, to transport the great choir to the Throne.
Many agencies cooperated and on May 30—Memorial Day—the great choir with its officers, conductor, and accompanist went to Zion to broadcast from the foot of the Great White Throne.
Though it scarcely ever rains in Zion National Park, it did on Decoration Day, adding to the difficulties to be overcome. It was a lovely day, however, for the artist, the musician, and the poet.
Zion was in one of her lovely moods.
Long before time for the services to begin the automobiles rolled into Zion to be on the spot when the great choir should get into action.
Thousands wanted to hear the melodies of Zion fill the City of Zion.
They wanted to hear the melodies roll up Angel's Landing and reverberate back against the mighty walls of the Great White Throne. WE HAD spent our night at Bryce, going over to Zion in the early morning. It was raining when we entered Long Valley and continued to rain as we approached the portals of Zion. It was lovely, however. The rain made the green greener and washed the world clean, leaving only sweet fragrances of joyful growing things. The pines and the cedars filled the air with incense. As we drove down toward the tunnels our joy increased.
Rain had washed the cliffs absolutely clean until every seam and fissure and crack could be seen.
Those great stone mountains were transformed into beautifully sculptured and ornamented pieces of architecture. Flowers— great white and pink penstemons— were everywhere clinging to the crevices where there was a spoonful of soil. All were in bloom making the place a lovely fairy garden whose massive walls disappeared into the over-hanging mists. Out of this fairy land we slipped into the matchless tunnels through whose wide portals we could catch glimpses of the great stone city towards which we were making our way.
From the tunnels we glided out onto the bean-stalk roadway that "hitchety - hatchetied" down the mountain side. AS WE entered Zion we found ourselves a part of a great parade of cars. It was now raining rather hard and CCC boys stood beside the road in their nor'westers and slickers and looked a bit bedraggled and chilly—but cheerful.
Rows of cars were parked about the lodge. We were urged to go on up the canyon and did so. At that time everybody expected the rain to stop in time for the broadcast. At the public campground, the main highway was blocked and we were directed into a parking area where gobs of mud like gobs of hasty 434 pudding stuck above the red water that was as thick as milk.
Having had little breakfast, while it rained and the cars assembled, we sat in ours and ate some things we had provided. As 9:30 a. M. Approached, we noted a truck pass with the loud-speaking equipment in it and the word got around that the first site selected for the broadcast, on account of the rain had been abandoned. We followed the cars that immediately began rolling out of the parking places and soon found ourselves on the highway some distance from the lodge where the choir had assembled and our way blocked. Not liking our position, we decided to go up to the Temple of Sinawava and there, while we enjoyed the temple and the Great White Throne, listen to the choir by means of the radio in our car.
Since the road had been blocked RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and we were able to get by only by means of an important piece of paper we carried, we were practically alone in the great Temple.
Mists rose partially obscuring the Great White Throne and from every cliff cascaded waterfalls, many of them nearly 2,000 feet in height. It was lovely, but we soon discovered that what we had heard is true—radio reception down in the deep streets of Zion, is nil.. AFTER enjoying the cliffs and waterfalls for some time, we returned to the lodge where we sat and listened to the choir and to President Heber J. Grant's fine Memorial Day message. The loud speakers picked up the choir voices and sprayed them upon the canyon air. It was thrilling despite the rain to stand there in the awful presence of the Spirit of Zion canyon at THE GREAT WHITE THRONE ON MEMORIAL DAY, 1937 THE GREAT WHITE THRONE the foot of the Great White Throne and hear the great choir sing. The miracle had been worked.
Four hundred choir members, their officers, conductors, and accompanists, had been picked up in Salt Lake City and transported to the foot of the Great Throne from which their music was broadcast to all the world. It sounds easy, but it was not easy. Imagine 400 people arriving at a railroad terminal in the early morning nearly one hundred miles from the spot from which they were to broadcast. Of course, they could not have reached that broadcasting station had not careful plans been laid. One hundred cars from Cedar City and the two Dixie stakes were awaiting the train.
These cars had been gathered by hard-working committees whose love for Zion and the choir was so great that nothing could daunt them. Dr. D. Eldon Beck, chairman of the St.
George committee, said the job was a big one, but after it was all done and the men were back home again there was a general feeling of satisfaction because all felt that they had done a big thing for art as well as for the state of Utah and the Church. AFTER the broadcast in Zion, the choir was taken to St.
George where a sacred concert was sung. 435
Many visited the temple and made the day one long to be cherished. We listened to the choir and to President Grant and then while the rain still fell and the mists still hid the towers of Zion, we rolled out of the silent city on our way home. We felt that we had been in a holy place and could easily imagine we had heard angels sing, their voices like silver bells among the cliffs. President Grant was at his best. His magnificent voice was filling the canyon until all who were there could hear his message. The rain hampered but did not spoil the undertaking.
Some day it will be repeated, for a thing as fine as that should not be allowed to become only a memory. We went to Zion poorly prepared for rain. Not content with sitting in the car, I tied a tablecloth around my head, wrapped myself in a blanket, and strolled about taking pictures. As I passed close to an auto I heard a man say to a lady in his car: "It isn't an Indian; it is only H. R. Merrill."
Despite the cold, despite the rain, despite the disappointment at not being able to use our radio, it was a grand occasion for those who actually went to the canyon to worship among the cliffs. A QUILT