[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 39 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]
Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH WE hear much about what men in the Church have done, not much about the activity of women.
This does not mean, however, that the part performed by women is unimportant. The contrary is the truth. The work done by the women of the Church has been of the utmost value, and their faith and devotion to the Church have often been greater than that of their men folk.
Very high praise is justly due the women for their loyalty and service. In the following lessons a consideration will be given to the life activities of five very worthy women.
Their lives were lived largely in the quiet and retirement of the home.
These women were not exceptional? they were and are typical of many thousands of other worthy women in whose lives are found exemplified in full measure the high qualities that go to make genuine nobility of character?the type of nobility most pleasing to God. The lives of these women may be studied with great profit by other women.
They moved in humble walks of life where the very great majority of women move.
Their fidelity, heroism and success cannot fail to be a lofty inspiration to all other good women who are striving to live acceptably to our Father in Heaven.
Lesson 1 MARGARET BACH HUEFNER Born in Alsace-Lorraine GOD'S children live in every land and clime. His Gospel?the plan of salvation?is universal, designed for all His sons and daughters wherever they have lived or may live. On hearing the Gospel message some choice souls of many different lands have accepted it.
Among those who 466 did this was Margaret Julia Bach, born July 17, 1881, in Sarreguemine, Alsace-Lorraine. She was a quiet girl and deeply interested in religious matters. In her early girlhood she read the Bible a great deal and through the influence of one of her brothers became acquainted with various denominational groups. At the age of twelve she was convinced that the Lutheran Church (to which her parents belonged) did not comply with the teachings of the Bible.
About that time the Lutheran minister sent her from his class saying, "I will not have a Baptist in my class." She had attended the meetings of the Baptists but was not a member, although several members of the family had joined that denomination.
When she was fifteen, she joined the United Brethren and enjoyed their discussions and gatherings, but she was not satisfied because there were some of their teachings that did not seem to agree with the Bible, and there were many questions concerning religious doctrine which they could not answer.
Four years later, while she was walking along the street, a young man walked up to her and handed her a leaflet. She felt singled out and looked at the leaflet and found that it referred to an unfamiliar religious group, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At home the tract was read several times, and Mother Bach decided to ask a neighbor for more information concerning it.
This neighbor was a Latter-day Saint, and in answer to the inquiry of Mother Bach, she sent her husband and a missionary to the Bach home.
After several months' investigation, Margaret, her father, her mother and a sister accepted the message of the Mormon missionary, and they were baptized. Now the persecution RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE began; the minister of the Lutheran Church delighted to persecute the Bach family in the market place while they were trying to sell the produce grown in their truck garden.
Many slanders were circulated about them, and they were continually disturbed no matter where they went. In the Spring of 1903
Margaret left her home in Sarreguemine and came to America. She arrived in Salt Lake City on May 22, 1903, in good health and feeling happy. She was met by friends who made her welcome, and she immediately felt at home. On the Sunday following her arrival, she attended the German meeting where she met further friends, among whom was Brother Frederick Huefner, who had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. A week after her arrival, she obtained work in a home in the Eighteenth Ward. She attended the various meetings there and found a host of friends among the young people of the Ward. She regularly visited the German meetings each Sunday and found full satisfaction in her Church membership and the assistance given her by her friends. On December 23, 1903, she married Frederick G. F.
Huefner in the Salt Lake Temple.
They bought a home and were very happy together.
During the first year, before the oldest son was born, she very often went to the Salt Lake Temple to perform ordinance work for the dead.
After the first baby was born, her attendance at the Temple was less frequent because the duties of the home required her attention.
They were blessed with four children, three boys and one girl. Her husband was very active in his Church duties, and she assisted and accompanied him whenever possible. On New Year's Day, 1912, her husband suddenly died. He had left LESSON DEPARTMENT the house in apparent good health to check on some matters pertaining to his daily work and was stricken with a fatal heart attack. However, Sister Huefner's testimony was that all was well in the providence of God and that the Lord would provide for her and assist her in the rearing of her children. Brother Huefner had often remarked that he felt that he would be called upon another mission, and she felt that this was the call for him to perform work in the spirit world. He had done most of the ordinance work in the Temple for his ancestors, and it was now necessary for him to minister and preach unto them. She was left alone with the four small children; the oldest son was seven years of age and the youngest was eight months old. But with full faith in the Lord she set about to rear her children as she and her husband had planned together. She found that the Lord was with her more than ever, and she was able to care for and rear her family as she desired. She took care of the home, went out as a seamstress to earn money, directed the school activities of the children and carefully guided them in their religious duties. She sewed all of their clothes and made most of their playthings.
With the help of her boys she kept the home in proper repair.
During those years she came to fully appreciate the teachings of her parents who had taught their children to be frugal and to be good managers.
