[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson I Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ IN this and the following lessons there are pointed out a number of distinctive Mormon contributions to Christ's life and work. In many respects the point of view of the Latter-day Saints is entirely different from that of the world.
Those who desire to further pursue their studies as here indicated, and who have library facilities, may do so by comparing points of view expressed in the following list of books. The starred books are Mormon publications. Smith?*Gospel Doctrine. Smith?*The Way To Perfection. Talmage?*Jesus The Christ. Talmage?*The Articles of Faith. Gray?Critical Introduction to the Old Testament. McFadyen?Introduction To The Old Testament. Scott?Literature of The New Testament. Dana?New Testament Criticism. Klausner?Jesus of Nazareth. Case?Experience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times. 1. The Time of Christ's Birth ?
Many scholars have attempted to determine precisely the date of Christ's birth. However, we shall not here presume to point out the various lines of reasoning and methods used by those who have sought to fix this important mile post in world history.
Suffice it to say that very able scholars disagree upon the year of our Savior's birth. The results range all the way from B. C. 1 to B. C. 9 with B. C. 4 being in all probability the most acceptable mean date. Dr. Joseph Klausner in his book, Jesus of Nazareth, is of the opinion that Jesus "was born in the reign of Augustus two to four years before the Christian era." Now two of our modern scriptures enable Latter-day Saints to more precisely point out the time of our Lord's birth. The Book of Mormon has several helpful references.
Nephi definitely shows that "even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews?even a Messiah, or in other words, a Savior of the world." (1
Nephi 10:4; compare 1
Nephi 19:8; 2
Nephi 25:19.) The Nephite scripture records the fact that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave Jerusalem "in the commencement of the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah." (1
Nephi 1:4, 2:2-4.) Zedekiah's reign must have commenced, therefore, about three years earlier than ordinarily supposed. The fulfilment of the Nephite prophets' predictions are recorded in 3
Nephi 1:1-21. One should read also in this connection the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite. (Helaman 14:2-7.) The Nephite people were given a marvelous sign of Christ's birth which occurred according to our reckoning in the year B. C. 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (20:1) seems to point out even the day of Christ's birth. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." The exact date of Christ's birth is thus set on April 6, B. C. 1. Some people may feel this contribution to be of little importance. We feel that any contribution made to our knowledge of the Christ is of value. The consecrated labors of thousands of scholars are a testimony to that opinion. 2. The Problem of the Virgin Birth?In times past comparatively few people doubted the simple straightforward stories of the birth of Christ as related in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. While there have been those through the centuries who have been doubters, it is within comparatively recent times that the scepticism has become so pronounced. From some recent books on early Christian history one would almost glean the idea that the Palestinian of Christ's day, indeed most of the peoples of the Mediterranean world, were living in a fool's paradise of supernaturalism. Examples are cited from the literature paralleling practically every miracle mentioned in the New Testament, including Christ's miraculous birth. The conclusion we are supposed to draw is that
northward They press as they sing and toil.
Before them a new isolation, A strange and uncharted land?
Scarce a fire or a friendly furrow Greets their weary, plodding band. Yet over the trail roll their wagons As their fathers had rolled before, Strong men who loved their homeland Yet loved they duty more.
North to the Land of the Blackfeet, This their appointed goal? A Camp of Israel guided By a great and Godlike soul. And the wheels of their wagons bear them To the heights of the Great Divide: On the east the rippling prairie, Hills to the westward side; And beyond the hills the mountains, on Old Chief and the snow-crowned peaks Where rise the lordly rivers And the gentle, willowed creeks.
They halt on the soil of Canada, Break the fruitful, virgin sod, And caught in the spell of the silences; They find the peace of God; And above them arch the heavens With their banners wide unfurled, And their eyes are bathed in the sunlight And fanned by the Winds of the World. And the promise of things to follow, Of the world that is to be, Homes, cities, a Temple holy With its gifts of eternity Gladdens the hearts of the pilgrims, And their courage never wanes As God gives a wondrous increase To their Zion of the Plains.
Thus they build, they sow and harvest, And strength for each new day springs Fresh in the hearts of the exiles And their songs of praise take wings. And beyond the seas of bunch grass And the trails of the buffalo The West of the Future is calling And its destiny they know. And Peace shall abide, and plenty, No more shall their children roam; Here they shall build for Tomorrow And in love they shall make it Home. ~O Address ADDRESS BY HON. ELBERT 'D. THOMAS, OF UTAH, AT THE THIRTY-SECOND _ INTERPARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE IN BUDAPEST ON JULY 4, 1936 AM asked to speak for America. This I cannot do, for under our Constitution the American people speak for themselves, and they alone can speak for America. Nor can I speak for my colleagues in the Senate of the United States, because under the rules of the Senate there is unlimited debate which implies that each Senator will speak for himself.
Those rules are obeyed?quite differently from the way in which the limited debate here has been obeyed. You see, we get obedience by having no limit. We tell a Senator he may speak on to the end of the session, and in that way we get obedience! (Laughter.) I have noted in the speeches and also in the report of our secretary a spirit of discouragement concerning the affairs of the world. As students of history, if we remember the past, there is nothing in the present to be particularly discouraged about, for throughout history conditions in the world have been always, as it were, in a state of flux, and never has the ideal been found. I know of no time and of no place when and where men have lived in a state of bliss and conditions have been such that there has not been concern.
Discouraged as we may be, I know of no time in the whole history of the world when so many men, women, and children were living quite so well as they are living today. That, gentlemen, is something. We have talked about the League failure. We should not talk about the League's failure or the League's success.
Those are words which have no place in the growth and development of institutions. It is the League's development or the League's retrogression that we should think about. Iam sure that I cannot contribute much to the great deliberations here, but I may suggest a thought, and I give it to you from my heart: The idea that nations shall meet and discuss their problems before the whole world is greater than any organization established for that purpose; the idea behind the Inter-Parliamentary Union is much greater than the union itself; the idea of the League is very much greater than the League itself; the idea behind the great American Constitution is much greater than the Constitution itself. For an American to lose faith in international cooperation would be for him to lose faith in the greatest fact of the American governmental history, for in the United States of America there are 53 separate and distinct parliamentary organizations, and 49 of them represent sovereign entities, absolute, except for powers reserved in the people, in their own spheres. It is out of these experiments, it is from these experiences that we have become what we are. We know how far the Federal idea can go. We know the bounds in which the whole may speak and the curbs it may place on any one of its parts. The theory behind that which international organization now calls a sanction we placed in our Federal Constitution. We know both its strength and its weakness.
From our experience we know how far to go and when to stop. The American Federal Govern- 442 ment guaranteed in our Constitution a republican form of government in every one of the various States, but never once has the Federal Government attempted to do anything about it. Why?
Because we knew, from the very experiences which we underwent when we organized and wrote our Constitution, that once an attempt were made to coerce a State, the Union itself might be destroyed. BELIEVE I have caught the spirit of the delegates here; I do not know whether I can reflect it, but if so I should like to in what I shall now say. Mr.
Rockefeller has restored great monuments at Versailles. Are the French people whom the present French Republic today comprises resentful that a monument which represented a theory of government no longer prevailing and contrary to present theory is to be made to live in stone? No; because they see something more vital than the theory, something finer than the past it represents.
France does not wish to return to that past, but she may cherish the beauty it produced.
There is no compromise there.
That which is good she preserves.
That which is bad had no place in the restoration. Her pride is not touched that an American contributes to a perpetuation of the beauty of her past.
France does not resent that the world rejoices with her in this monument to her culture. If the world can unite in appreciation of beauty, it may unite in appreciation of other accomplishments.
That desire of nations is with us today, for as I turn from one delegation to another I am reminded of the spirits of their pasts. First, as I face the Greek delegation, my thoughts turn to ancient Greece and I remember what
Sophocles caused his Antigone to say, "It is easy to join for hate and for evil-doing, but it is hard to join for love and for peace." Is that not our struggle today?
Inspired by the presence of our Japanese friends I select a Hokku poem which, it seems to me, reflects the idea and the spirit of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The poem gives us this picture: There are many roads that lead to the top of the mountain, But when once the summit is gained the same moon is seen.
Speech after speech from far-off corners of countries represented here reflect the Japanese poet's dream, no dream to us who have climbed the mountain! The moon and the ideal it represents are ours! I fancy a picture of the striving of nations, I can feel the spirit of those nations, and I note that there has been expressed here, time and time again, in very deed, the long-prayedfor "desire of nations."
Whether that desire will be fulfilled or not depends upon the way in which the people of the world accept the responsibilities of the present day.
Shall we act like the ancient Hebrews who patted themselves on the chest and were proud, and claimed they were the chosen people of the Lord, or shall we be like the thoughtful of those ancients who realized that only those were entitled to be called God's chosen people who first of all chose to be God's chosen ones? We can behold the moon of world unity only if we climb the road that leads to the summit. We can be that which we seek to be only by striving in harmony with the fulfilled purposes of our hoped-for ends. If good will is to come to us, we must reflect good will. If the world is to be made a place of peace, we must learn and must live the way of peace. Music Department By Professor Frank W.
Asper of our music, the most necessary requirement is that the instruments have the best of care and are kept in good condition.
With our pianos the following points should be observed: Extreme care should be used to keep them covered as much as possible so that the dirt will not get inside the case.
Moths always congregate where there is dirt and it is possible for the moth to completely destroy the felt and hammers used on pianos, They should also be made inaccessible to mice. A piano should never be placed against an outside wall but should be inside the room in order to guard against extreme changes in teniperature?the ideal way would be to keep the room at a constant temperature.
Then too, it will be found that there will not be so much dampness against the inside wall as against the outside. Our houses and auditoriums are all very dry, and this is especially true during the winter when there is very little humidity in the air, and makes the likelihood of the wood cracking very great, and for this reason it is very often advisable to keep one or two plants very close to the piano. The evaporation from the leaves cf the plants will keep the air sufficiently moist to avoid any trouble in this way. To keep them in a damp basement is also bad for them.
Avoid drafts as this will tend to check the wood and will cause undue expansion and contraction in the piano wires. The piano wires are very delicately strung.
Until the last few years the wires were attached to pins which I N ORDER to make something were cylindrical in shape and driven in the pin-block and if the wood was not of the proper kind or grain or seasoning, they would slip.
There are many of these old pianos now and it is almost impossible to keep them in tune as there is nothing to stop the tuning pin from turning. In our more modern pianos, however, the tuning pins are tapered, thus enabling the one who takes care of the instrument to drive them further into the wood and in this way hold the piano up to pitch. PIANO should be tuned twice a year, if possible in the spring and fall and usually at the same pitch as the building is heated, generally about seventy-two degrees. If you are particular about your instrument you will insist that they are always tuned to A-440 or C-523.25.
During the course of the year, due to the terrific strain on the wires, a piano will drop one or two vibrations. If they are not pulled up to pitch at least ofice a year, it is only a matter of a short time until they will be so low that it will be impossible for any other instrument to play in tune with them, and any attempt a tuner might make to bring it back to pitch will result in broken wires, sheared tuning pins and possibly a split pin-block. NOTHING is so repulsive as playing on a piano if sweaty or dirty fingers have been over it. The keys should be wiped off with wood alcohol, but always use the utmost care not to allow any of it to get on the finish or it will turn it white. In polishing the case, the best method is to use castile or Ivory soap in warm water. Dip a piece of soft 444 cheese cloth in warm suds and wring it out, then wipe with a moistened cloth.
After this wipe with a dry piece of cheese cloth. The many kinds of polish are also quite satisfactory, as well as the better brands of furniture wax, providing they are rubbed off as much as possible.
All of these suggestions as to temperature, etc., are applicable to the reed organ as well. In addition the 'performer should always take care that the stops are pushed in when not in use. This will avoid any difficulty that might be encountered with dust entering the wind chest. ELIZA L. ?.