[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Great White Merrill]

en, she who, but a few hours ago, had thought her life hopelessly empty. 411
She saw now that a mother's duties must never end, no matter how old and bent she may get. As long as she lives and breathes there are children to be watched over, grandchildren, and soon a great-grandchild. No. There was no longer dirty faces to wash, but there were gloomy spirits to brighten and angry passions to subdue. There were no longer hungry mouths to feed, but groping souls to nourish with the counsel and wisdom of age. And no matter how old they might be, there would be tears she could dry, not with a hanky as in days past, but with words of consolement and prayers of faith. How busy must a mother be all her days! "It is not only that I need them now as never before, but they still need me," the Grandmother breathed triumphantly. "And sleep, the sleep of peace and a new purpose in life, brought rest to eyes which so shortly before had wept in mourning, but now would be dried henceforth by the calm patience of courage. HOME By Susan T. Jennings Home need not wear a polished mien, Nor bear a studied grace To mark its hospitality And make it choice of place. But all its charms and attitudes, Its welcomings should be As kingly cloak to garb therein A fine sincerity. I care not for its class or cast, Nor for its warp and woof; For home is where the heart throbs true Beneath whatever roof. What Should Mothers Do?
By Jean Cox THIS is written from the outside looking in. In a recent article in Scribner's entitled "The Modern Woman Goes Home," by Mrs. Ralph Borsodi, a clever analysis is given o
f the importance that production still plays in the homes of today. In this she questions the net earning capacity of married women outside the home as compared with the women whose major job is homemaking. She has convinced herself that there is both happiness and economic satisfaction in the home production of food, clothing, and laundry. It is the conclusion of Mr. And Mrs.
Borsodi that the average woman who cooks, cans, preserves, bakes, and launders at home for her family produces more wealth than she could produce by earning money. Her own hourly earnings on home work have been so large that she believes that the same sort of cost analysis for nursing, music teaching, and entertainment would prove that the value of her economic contribution within the home would be substantially equ