[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a continuation of the old native customs, and I am sure there will be no one in want of food and clothing as long as others of the Saints have any. They are very wonderful to help one another and scarcely ever ask for money from the Relief Society to do it with. I am sure they are blessed for their goodness." TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead— She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers.  
First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Marcia K. Howells Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Amy Whipple Evans Mary Connelly Kimball Rae B. Barker Rosannah C, Irvine' Janet M. Thompson Nellie O. Parker Nettie D. Bradford
Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXIV JULY, 1937. No. 7
Editorials Difficulties With the coming of July 24 we think of that sturdy band who pioneered the West and of the hardships they endured. We pity them that they went through such trying experiences, but hardships are not wholly undesirable.
Through overcoming difficulties there comes a courage and fortitude that makes for the strongest character.
Facing difficulties brings strength that an easy life never develops.
Pioneering brings out latent resourcefulness. It makes for brotherhood.
Each feels the other's difficulties and tries to lighten the burden. All share in the joy that comes.
