[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a conThey are very wonderful to help tinuation of the old native customs, one another and scarcely ever ask and I am sure there will be no one for money from the Relief Society in want of food and clothing as long to do it with. I am sure they are as others of the Saints have any. Blessed for their goodness." 1 Sy2??__$~?> TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead? She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Inez_K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Marcia K. Howells Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Amy Whipple Evans Marv Connelly Kimball Rae B. Barker Rosannah C, Irvine' Janet M. Thampson Nellie O. Parker Nettie D. Bradford
Editor - - -: - - - - - - - where Connelly Kimball Manager -: - - -: - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager -: - -: - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIV JULY, 1937. No. 7
Editorials Difficulties With the coming of July 24 we that were far too good for them. We think of that sturdy band who deprived them of all trouble and pioneered the West and of the hardmade learning as easy and pleasant ships they endured. We pity them and painless as going fishing.
Because they went through such try- "We told them there were nice ing experiences, but hardships are little jobs awaiting them just around not wholly undesirable.
Through the corner with a nice wife and a overcoming difficulties there comes a mink coat and a nice house and a nice courage and fortitude that makes for mortgage, nicely handled by a nice the strongest character.
Facing diffibank.
Culties brings strength that an easy "As long as America had stoad for life never develops.
Pioneering hardships, for pioneering, for fightbrings out latent resourcefulness. It ing one's way through the wilderness makes for brotherhood.
Each feels ?as long as there had been adventhe other's difficulties and tries to ture and uncertainty in the American lighten the burden. All share in the scheme of things?we had a definite joy that comes.
Many people have and concrete American philosophy been dwarfed, the best in them never of life and nobody dreamed of imdeveloped because they have been porting from abroad what we could shielded from every hard thing.
Find so infinitely better right here at Hendrix Willem Van Loon, noted home." historian, said at the National EduIsn't there a great deal in this arcation Association convention in raignment? Are we not all shielding New Orleans: childrentoo much from difficulty and "During the last three generations trying to make everything so easy we have done nothing but give in to that they do not develop the strength, our children. We gave them schools sturdiness, fortitude, that meeting EDITORIALS hard tasks gave to their parents?
Much as mothers realize the strength that comes from battle, the fortitude that results from overcoming difficulties, yet they ever seek to shield their children and make life as easy as possible for them.
Fortunately they are not able to wholly do this, otherwise their children would be very much weaker than they now are.
Psychologists are telling us that we should all do something we don't An F all the notifications that our Magazines have failed to reach their destination we think the loveliest message we have received was written by Rose M. Hardy. She said: "Dear Relief Society Magazine. For some reason you have failed to greet me with your messages of love 453 want to do every day, that we should attempt difficult tasks for the strength that will result. It is well known that the furnace fires free the metal from the dross, and so it is no wonder that the Pioneers developed such strong characters.
They had to face difficulties!
They had to develop their ingenuity; they ad to stand together, helping each other to overcome difficulties and to bring victory out of seeming defeat. Art and cheer this month.
Needless to tell you how lost I am without you, especially when I have to present the lesson in the Theology Department. You know how much I need you, so please get here as soon as you can. Affectionately." It's an art to be able to do things in such a sweet way as this. Magazine To Be Larger WE are glad to announce that henceforth our Magazine will be increased four pages in each issue.
This will give us seventy or more pages of reading matter, according to the number of ads carried in each number.
This is quite a growth from the size of the first issue, which had forty-four pages of reading matter. SousRer7>1. SAGE SONG By Martha Ball I love to stand on yonder hill And gaze out o'er the great expanse Of purple, tufted, scented, sage, After the storm, after the dance?
After the dance of the sparkling rain, Whose tiny feet spread sweet perfume On every tuft of silver sage, On every quivering virgin plume. I stand alone on yonder hill, A soul bereft of a home-spun age.
Seeking sweet peace in the solitude, Finding release in the primitive sage.
many jobs outside the home require.
Family building is the biggest responsibility that a woman can have.
Success in establishing satisfactory cooperation and harmonious relationships with other members of the family elevates the job of homemaking to a composite one of skilled worker, executive, and teacher.
This combination is seldom listed in employment ads. Be sober and temperate, and you will be healthy.—Franklin. Joy, temperance, and repose, slam the door on the doctor's nose.— Longfellow. It is better to be neat and tidy than tight and needy.—"Cobbers."
Alcohol is the pick-me-up that lets you down.—''Cobbers." Growing Old Gracefully