[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 48 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Edith Young]

By Edith Young Booth "How dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood, When fond recollection presents them to view! The orchard, the meadow, the deeptangled wildwood, And every loved spot which my infancy knew." HOW often have these lines struck a responsive chord as I recall my impressions of the dear old Lion House in my childhood. At that time my Grandmother, Harriet Elizabeth Cook Young, occupied six rooms of this historic mansion. Her kitchen and dining room were on the ground floor, on the west side of the second floor she had her parlor and one bedroom, across the hall east was her guest chamber, and a portion of the third story she occupied as a combined library and storeroom. In the latter, popular magazines of that period, Peterson's, Family Herald, Bow Bells, and Perry's, as well. As the local church publications—Woman's Exponent, and the Juvenile Instructor were piled up by years to be read during her leisure time. The door to this room was locked, and only on rare occasions were any of us permitted to enter.
Because of frequent searches during the "raid" by United States deputy marshals, my father was invited to bring his family to live in some of Grandmother's and Aunt Twiss's rooms for about a year. I vividly recollect the cellar room in the southeast corner of the ground floor, and the laundry room in the west center of the same floor where were found such conveniences as running water, tubs and a stove with large brass kettles, etc. The green door shutters, the long dark halls, the wide staircase, always filled me with delight, mingled with awe. Once I dared suggest that I slide down the banisters, but Grandmother very sternly told me not to do this, stating that Grandfather Young would never have approved of such an undignified action. Likewise, when I swung on one of the huge doorknobs, she immediately stopped me with the same admonition. I knew very little of the great pioneer's life at that time, but I received the deep impression from her, that whatever he disapproved of, I should refrain from doing. Before Grandfather's death it was the custom of the family on going out at night to take their own lamps and place them on a table in the hall near the front door while they were away. As each one came in, he took his individual lamp to his own room and the last one in locked the door for the night. GRANDMOTHER was aristocratic in appearance and nature, and although she lived by herself, she never once ate a meal without a clean white tablecloth. In fact her table was "laid" with a castor in the center containing salt, black and white pepper bottles, vinegar, mustard and oil, plate, knife, fork and a goblet, with her napkin in a silver ring, ready to be used at the next meal.
These she covered with another white cloth.
That was always my impression of the table when I visited her alone, after our family had moved back to the farm.
Although just a tiny girl, RECOLLECTIONS OF THE LION HOUSE this appealed to me as a very sensible thing to do. I thought, with a sigh, how easy setting the table would be if we at home could just put the dishes back on the table, and avoid the trouble of taking them out of the cupboard again.
Then it seemed so nice and quiet for a change to have the two of us eating together instead of our noisy ten. And the things we had to eat!
Bakers bread, or "store bread" as it was then called, was practically unknown to us, and to have Grandmother give me a dollar, and send me to Scrace's Bakery (oh that name, how many happy recollections it recalls) and buy bread, cakes and pies indeed gave to an eight year old girl a thrill that has never been equalled. A SORT of religious feeling came over me whenever I sat on one of her Mohair chairs, or the settee in the parlor.
They appeared so grand, and the bright parlor carpet, which was of a large red and green pattern, made me even more appreciative of the fact that Grandmother lived in Salt Lake, or as some of the country folk called it then, "The City." My oldest sister, Rose, stayed with her for three months one winter, and I remember very well visiting them for a few days. How I loved to sleep in those beds with the high backs, and how the washstands, yellow like the woodwork, and woodboxes near the fireplace added to the coziness of the bedrooms. IN each of the bedrooms was one of the Lion House parlor chairs, the most comfortable to sit upon I have ever tried. One of these priceless heirlooms is in my possession. THE thrill which my sister Stella and I received by being permitted to sit on the lion in front of the 429 house is one still bright in my recollection. My father, Oscar B. Young, explained the significance of the lion's being placed on this home. In Vermont his father's birthplace, all well-to-do farmers had a symbol on their dwelling, and these were known far and wide.
This tradition was perpetuated in both the Lion and Bee-hive Houses.
Grandfather had always greatly admired the lion's bravery and majestic appearance, and the industry of the bee. How I loved to go through the high rock wall in front of the Lion House, and the huge wide gate with the heavy iron latch. TRIPS to the tithing office store were another interesting feature.
Produce both of the farm and shop, and merchandise were all received as tithing in those days. Eggs, meat, butter, could be obtained at this church institution. The barns at the rear of the Lion House were used by us as playhouses, particularly the hay loft, as there were very few animals kept there in those days.
Large lawns were laid out on the west side of the building, on these my brothers and sisters also spent many happy hours in play.
There were small porches or tiny balconies on the west of the Lion House upstairs, where I used to love to stand and gaze at the Angel Moroni, and the glorious Salt Lake Temple. No Hotel Utah obscured my view then, and how reverent I felt, and often wondered if I would ever be privileged to enter that wonderful building, and be married for time and eternity, and do work for the dead.
Such were the thrills and happiness for the blessing of knowing my Grandmother, and being in the Lion House when it was used as a home! Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? BANNERS Take Time For Loyalty