=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

CONTENTS
One of the Tombs of the Kings Frontispiece
Ere the Roses Bloom Alveretta S. Engar 177
The Christ of the Book of Mormon John Henry Evans 179
Flowers Sarah Leggett Phelps 190
A Visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission May Booth Talmage 191
Dr. Emmeline B. Wells 199
Charity Elva P. Bushman 202
Editorial—The First Editor's Birthday 203
The Memorial Theatre at Stratford on Avon 204
The Purchasing of the Hill Cumorah 205
Cooperation from the Northern States Mission 206
Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Visits Utah 206
President Williams Expresses Appreciation 207
The Abundant Harvest Mary Hale Woolsey 208
Soil for Potted Plants Dr. Thomas L. Martin 216
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 218
Guide Lessons for June 221
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XV APRIL, 1928 No. 4 The Christ of the Book of Mormon By John Henry Evans Jesus Christ is the outstanding historical figure in our annals—greater than Confucius, or Buddha, or Aristotle, or Mohammed, or Moses, or Shakespeare, or Luther, or Washington or Lincoln. And these were the foremost men of their time. Yet, largely as they bulk against the horizon, each in his individual setting and work, these figures shrivel into insignificance when we mention their names in the same breath as that of the mighty Galilean. His influence is felt more or less in every good thought we think and every good deed we do today after nearly two thousand years, and that influence promises to be greater in the coming years. Any document, therefore, that can help us to visualize more clearly this greatest character among men, is valuable beyond estimation. Now, the Book of Mormon does this very thing. It gives us a closer and a fuller view of the Jehovah of the Old Testament, and during a longer period than does the Old Testament. It supplies us with fresh, first-hand, and some extremely picturesque details of his ministry on earth. And it brings into greater clearness what is merely hinted at or vaguely suggested in the Hebrew Scriptures respecting his relation to us and the world. I purpose, then, in this article to assemble the ideas and scenes, now scattered throughout the Nephite Record, which bear in any way on the subject of the Christ, whether before or during or after his appearance in the flesh, so as to show what light that volume throws upon the personality and work and position of Jesus in the history of this planet. Of course, such a presentation can hope to be nothing more pretentious than a sketching in of these newer-details. But it will serve to show that the Book of Mormon has something of real worth to contribute to our picture of the Master. 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I His Pre-earth Life—The Bible And first let me speak of the light which the Nephite Record throws upon the pre-earth life of our Savior. Clear as is the idea in the mind of the informed Latter-day Saint that Christ had a spirit-existence before he tabernacled in the flesh, yet the clearness of this notion comes, not from the Hebrew writings, but mainly from the Book of Mormon. The Old Testament, as a matter of fact, is all but silent on the point. In the biblical account of the creation the word "Elohim" is used, which is plural. This fact implies—but it is only an implication—that there were more than one person taking part in that event. Who were they? For an answer to this question we must go to John's Gospel. One of them was Jesus, for he is there spoken of as having been with the Father "in the beginning." But we should never have come by this light from the account of the event in Genesis alone. That is about as clear a reference as we have in the Old Testament of the ante-mortal existence of Christ. It is true, also, that we have the name Jehovah employed constantly by the writers of the Old Testament as the title of the God of the Israelites. But here again it requires the application of other passages before we can conclude that this is Christ, not to speak of the difficulty of inferring how he could have existed before he was born! Hence we are justified in saying that the pre-mortal life of Jesus is only vaguely hinted at in the pages of the Old Testament.. That existence is clearer, but not much clearer, in the New Testament. The passage in John's record of Christ's life I have already called attention to. The exact wording of that passage will show just how clearly the idea is set forth. "In the beginning," John says, "was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. * * * All things were made by him. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. * * * And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth." This, as we shall see later, is not the clear, direct statement that we find in the Book of Mormon. Yet it is the clearest we have in the New Testament, if we except the one we have by the Son of God himself, in which he prays for the glory he had with the Father "before the world was." These two references are by far the most specific and positive, made quite incidentally of the pre-earth life of the Christ. His Pre-earth Life—Book of Mormon Contrast these with the record of incidents and the THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON | 181 positive declarations on the subject in the Nephite Record. The first reference comes from the account of Ether in that volume. Moriancumer, the brother of Jared, is in need of some means of lighting the eight barges he has made under divine direction for crossing the ocean. He ends by taking sixteen small stones, 'white and clear and transparent as glass, up to a mountain. These he prays for the Lord to "touch with his finger and prepare them that they might shine forth in darkness."' When the Lord does so, the "veil is taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he sees the finger of the Lord, that it is as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and blood. And he falls down before the Lord, for he is struck with fear." "Why hast thou fallen?" inquires the Lord. "Because," answered Moriancumer, "I saw the finger of the Lord, and I feared lest he should smite me. For I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood." And the Lord said, "Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood. Never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast. For were it not so, thou couldst not have seen my finger. Sawest thou more than this?" "Nay, Lord. Show thyself unto me!" And "the Lord showed himself unto him," saying, "Because thou knowest these things, thou art redeemed from the fall. Therefore thou art brought back into my presence, and I show myself unto thee. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. I am Jesus Christ. In me shall all mankind have light and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name, and they shall become my sons and daughters. * * * Seest thou that thou art created after mine own image? This body, which thou now beholdest, is the body of my spirit. Man have I created after the body of my spirit. Even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit, will I appear unto my people in the flesh." It is clear from this luminous incident, first, that Jesus Christ existed before his incarnation in the flesh and his appearance on the earth in a physical body; secondly, that the form in which he existed was the same as that which he took in the fleshly tabernacle, only it was spirit instead of flesh; and, thirdly, that he created man in spirit-form, the same form that his own spirit bore, and the form, moreover, of which man's physical body is the counterpart, leaving us to infer that man also, as to his spirit, had a pre-earth life. This incident, therefore, throws a spotlight upon what has hitherto been a very dark area. 182 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Another striking passage, almost as luminous and equally clear and definite, is from the account in the Book of Mormon of the predictions of the Lamanite prophet Samuel and their fulfilment. Those who are acquainted with the circumstances will recall that Samuel went to Zarahemla for the purpose of preaching to the Nephites there, who were fast dwindling in their religious faith, and that, failing to regain entrance into the place, he delivered his message in a picturesque fashion from the ramparts that surrounded the town. In five years, he told the people, "the Son of God cometh to redeem all those who shall believe on his name." And he gave them a sign by which they might know that Christ was born across the waters among the Jews. It was that. There should be "one day and a night and a day as if it were one day, without darkness between daylight, that is, for a period of about thirty-six hours. Also a new star should appear, one that had not been seen before, with "many signs and wonders in heaven." As the time approached for the sign to appear, and it did not appear, the unbelievers scoffed and threatened, and the believers, on their part, became alarmed for their very lives. At this time a prophet named Nephi, "cried mightily unto his God" in behalf of the faithful. He was answered by the voice of the Lord—'"Lift up your head and be of good cheer, for, behold, the time is at hand. On this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. Behold, I come unto my own, to fulfil all things which I have made known unto the children of men, from the foundation of the world, and to do the will, both of the Father and of the Son; of the Father because of me, and of the Son because of my flesh." No language could be clearer or more definite and specific as to the pre-earth existence of the Christ than this passage and the passage from the Jaredite record, previously given. The fact of that existence is stated beyond all possibility of quibble or misunderstanding—which is not the case, as we have seen, in the Hebrew Scriptures. To be sure, one may dispute the authenticity of the assertion itself for the divine inspiration claimed for it, but one may not deny its clearness, or its positiveness, or its definiteness of utterance. II The Book of Mormon also throws a flood of light on the deityship of Jesus Christ. And, as in the case of his antemortal existence, the value of this additional light is not that THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON _ 183 it gives anything altogether new but that it brings into relief and greater plainness what is rather suggested than asserted in the New Testament. Christ's Godhood—The Bible On this subject of the godhead of Christ there are only implications in the Old Testament—the use of the word "Elohim" in the account of the creation, for instance, and of the word "Jehovah" as the designation of the God of the Hebrew people. Nor is the New Testament altogether unambiguous on the point. Christ speaks of himself as greater than Abraham and Moses, but one need not infer from this that he was divine in the accepted sense. Also John, as we have seen, declares that "the word was God" and that "all things were made by him." And Jesus says after his resurrection, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." These passages, and others not so clear, are interpreted to mean that Christ is God. Nevertheless, there have been devout believers all down the ages since our era began who understood these statements as not asserting Christ's Godhead. Beginning in the fourth century after his birth, Arianism in one form or another has been in existence—that is, the denial of Christ's divinity, without a denial of his greatness, his creative powers and work, and his teachings. And there have been sects established on this theory of his humanity. The Book of Mormon, however, is not susceptible to this double meaning when it speaks on the subject. On the contrary, its declarations on the point are clear, distinct, and emphatic.. Christ's Godhood—Book of Mormon. On the fly-leaf of that volume is the statement that -"Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself unto all the nations." Indeed, to "convince" both Jew and Gentile of this fact, that Christ is very God, is specifically declared to be one of the purposes in revealing the Nephite Record to the world in this age. — Says Abinadi, one of the early prophets of the Nephites, "God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people. And: because he dwelleth in the flesh, he shall be called the Son of God, having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father." The first Nephi tells us that "the God of our fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, yieldeth himself as a man into the hands of wicked men, to be lifted up and 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crucified and buried in a sepulchre." Lehi speaks of the Jews as the only people who would crucify their God. Benjamin, who was both a king and a prophet, declares, "the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power the Lord omnipotent, who reigneth, who was and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth among men, working mighty miracles—healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases." These men—Abinadi, Nephi, Lehi, and Benjamin—all lived before the Christian era. But the passages to be found in the Book of Mormon after Christ are equally specific and positive on the point under consideration. Jesus himself, when he appeared among the Nephites after his resurrection, told them, "I am the God of Israel and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the whole world." And Moroni speaks of Christ as distinctively the God of the land of America, whom its inhabitants must serve if they would not be destroyed. Referring to the land we now call America, he says, "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage and from captivity and from all other nations under heaven—if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." Again, the truth of these statements may be called in question, but not their clearness or their positiveness. He who runs may read and understand the import of them. It is impossible to twist them into a double meaning or to involve them in a cloud of mist. They are either true or not true in the meaning they bear on their face. Attributes of God Ascribed to Christ Not only is Jesus Christ expressly called God in the Nephite Record, but the character and attributes ascribed to God in the Hebrew Scriptures are applied to our Savior in the Book of Mormon. He is declared to be omnipotent. Says King Benjamin, "I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God omnipotent, may seal you his." Christ is specifically termed in the Book of Mormon a "God of miracles." Also he is called Creator. "There is a God," says Lehi, "and he hath created all things, both in the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon." That Lehi understood this creative act to have been THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON _ 185 performed by Jesus is evident from another passage a little later on, in which he says, "Thus saith the Lord, when the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ," and so on. Jesus himself said to the Nephites after his resurrection, "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father in the beginning." Several of the Nephite writers during the national existence of that people speak to the same effect. So, then, there can be no misunderstanding the Book of Mormon that Jesus Christ is omnipotent in the sense that it is usually applied to God in sacred literature. The Nephite Record also ascribes other attributes to our Savior, such as are applied in the Bible only to God—self-existence, justice, holiness, unchangeableness, goodness, grace and mercy, and love. King Benjamin declares that Christ "exists from all eternity to all eternity." Says Lehi, "O the wisdom of God! His mercy and grace! For, behold, if the flesh should rise no more, our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the eternal God, to rise no more." Another writer, Jacob, the son of Lehi, importunes his readers to 'remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel," whom he elsewhere calls "that. Holy God," and also to bear in mind that "his paths are righteous." The first Nephi represents Jehovah as saying, "Behold, I am God; I am a God of miracles; and I will show unto the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever." To quote again from Jacob, "O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monster, death and hell!' In a word, every attribute that in sacred literature is ascribed to God, the Nephite writers apply to Jesus Christ, both before and after his incarnation in the flesh. III And so we come now to those incomparable scenes where Jesus Christ in person, after his resurrection, ministered to the people on the American continent. It is unnecessary here to do anything more than recall to mind the impressive spectacle which preceded that appearance of the Master—the furious storms, the thunderings and sharp lightning, the upheavals and sinkings of the earth's crust, the destruction of entire cities, the carrying away of men and women in the whirlwind, the agonized cries of the survivors, and finally the voice from the heavens that pierced into the hearts of those who had gathered to exchange horrified feelings and words over what had taken place, a "small 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE voice," indistinct at first as of an approaching sound, but becoming clearer, till the astonished multitude understood it. Said the voice: "Behold my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name. Hear him." Chist Appears to Nephites Casting up their eyes again toward heaven, whence came the words, they beheld a man descending out of the air, clothed in a white robe. This man came down and stood in the midst of the people; "the eyes of the whole multitude," says the historian with the evident air of a spectator, "were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another," because "they wist not what it meant," believing, it to be "an angel that appeared unto them." The man "stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified should come into the world. I am the light and the life of the world. I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in which I have suffered the will of the Father from the beginning." The whole multitude "fell to the earth" in adoration, for they remembered the prophecies concerning the Christ. "Arise," said Jesus, "and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my. Hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel arid the God of the whole earth." ' So "the multitude went forth," the narrative goes on, "and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet, going forth one by one. Until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes, and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety, and did bear record, that it was he of whom it was written by the prophets that he should come."  This done, they cried out in one voice, ''Hosannah! Blessed be the name of the most high God!" And they fell down at his feet and worshiped him.: ~ Nephi, one of the prophets who had spoken of Christ's appearance and who had "departed out of the land" a little before this, was in the crowd. He "arose and went forth and bowed himself before the Lord and kissed his feet." Main Teachings Reiterated Jesus then taught the people the main doctrines he had already proclaimed among the Jews. For some reason—most THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON | 187 likely because he found the Nephites more believing and sympathetic than the Jews—he spoke with greater freedom and plainness than he appears to have done in Palestine. He taught them concerning baptism. "Ye shall go down and stand in the water," he said, 'and in my name shall ye baptize. And ye shall say, calling them by name, 'Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, | baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen!' Then shall ye immerse 'them in the water, and come forth again out of the water." This was to be done only in the case of those who repented of their sins and who desired to be baptized in the name of Christ. And these explicit directions were given, Jesus told them, that there might be "no contentions" among the people. For whoever had the "spirit of contention," he explained, was not of Christ, but of the devil, "who is the father of contention," because he "stirreth up the hearts of men to contend in anger one with another." "It is not my doctrine," he further said, "to stir up the hearts of men in anger, one against another. But this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away." A luminous statement, when you come to get at the heart of it, and a distinct contribution to the utterances of the Christ. There are not many difficulties known to man that do not have their root in a "stirring up of the heart in anger" one way or another. This idea of peaceableness, coupled with the teachableness of a little child, after one has had faith, has repented of his sins, has been baptized for the remission of them, and received the gift of the Holy Ghost, Christ declared to be his doctrine. "Whoso buildeth upon this, buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against him." Here is epitomized the puzzling variety of things we are required to do in life—a codification, so to speak, of the laws and statutes of religion. As members of the Church everything depends on our being uncontentious and teachable.
A Unique Scene
Also more plainly than too the Jews he spoke about the law of Moses. "I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel. Therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfill the law—therefore it hath an end. Not all the covenant which I have made with my people is fulfilled, but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me."
After repeating the teachings which we have in what is
188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
known as the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus told the multitude that his "time was at hand" to go to the Father and also to show himself "unto the lost tribes of Israel." And "the people were in tears" at the thought that he was going to leave them! They looked at him "steadfastly" as if they would ask him to stay a little longer. Perceiving their desires, he said, "My bowels are filled with compassion and mercy towards you." Then, "Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Or any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or withered, or deaf, or afflicted in any manner?" Thereupon "all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick, and their afflicted, and their lame, and their blind, and their dumb, with all that were afflicted in any manner. And he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him. And as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears."
Then he commanded that their little children be brought to him. And when they had been brought, he "sat them down upon the ground round about him, and he stood in the midst of them," the multitude giving way till all the children were together. He commanded all the people to kneel down upon the ground. When they had done so, "Jesus groaned within himself, and said, Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the House of Israel.
"And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt down upon the earth, and, behold, he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him." So powerfully were the people affected by what they had heard in that prayer, that they "were overcome." On rising from his knees, he bade them rise also, after which he said, "Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now, behold, my joy is full." And he wept. Then he took the children, one by one, and blessed them. And prayed to the Father in behalf of them. And he wept again. "Behold your little ones!" he said. As the people looked, they saw the heavens open, and angels descending in what appeared to be fire, and ministering to the children, who were themselves encircled by fire. After this unparalleled scene there "came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude, that they could not see Jesus.
THE CHRIST OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 189
And while they were overshadowed, he departed from them, and ascended into heaven."
IV
Just what is the value of this additional light thrown upon the Christ by the Book of Mormon? In what way and to what degree is Christian theology advanced by these new ideas and the greater clearness given to old ideas that were vague?
But first let us summarize this information. The main and subordinate points we have already considered are as follows:
Main Points Summarized
First, Jesus Christ had a conscious existence before his incarnation in the flesh—an existence, that is, in which he was able to think and to feel and to act.
Secondly, he existed in a form that, although spiritual in substance, is the same as the form we have come to know as the human, with all the organs and dimensions that the physical tabernacle of man has in mortality.
Thirdly, he was very God in that state of existence, having all the nature and characteristics which the race from the beginning has ascribed to the Power that created man and the world and that governs the universe.
Fourthly, he now has, since his incarnation and death and resurrection, a body of flesh and bone, the same in effect that was crucified and afterwards laid in the tomb in Palestine.
These, all, are main propositions, stated in a way which it is impossible to misunderstand. There are numerous and important corollaries, also, such as—that Jesus was the Jehovah of the Old Testament, watching over and directing the destinies of the Hebrew people, impelling them by means of bitter experiences and keeping them in line for a specific purpose; that he was with the Father in the beginning, creating the earth and man with everything pertaining thereto; that he hears with infinite patience and love, the same patience and love he manifested in the flesh, for the salvation of all mankind, irrespective of color or conditions in life; that man too had a pre-earth life, a life of the spirit, which, in form, is the exact counterpart of the physical body that we see in mortality; and finally, that life as we know it here is but a section, a very small section, of life as it is, and was, and will be. These ideas take us up, as it were, to the top of a high pinnacle, from which we may view mortality in its relation to the illimitable stretch of life both before and after this.
190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Value of This New Clearness
And we need this outlook very much indeed. Life proves to most of us a very perplexing thing. There is so much of it! And it is so intricate, so complex! It is a great ocean, on which we are afloat, not to say adrift, and we are unable by ourselves to swim into any of those powerful undercurrents that would sweep us onward to a Somewhere. It is a giant forest, in which we are, all of us, lost, with no halo to lead us out of its shadowy depths into the clearing. We hear, it is true, an occasional "Lo here!" and "Lo there!" But these are vocal mirages, which only add to our bewilderment. Not the greatest philosophers have been able to reduce the multitudinous and confusing events and facts of life to anything like a simple and orderly process working towards a goal. And so we must look outside our own thought for a plan that will show the general push of life, that will relate one thing to another, that can bring into full view the "one increasing purpose" running through the ages. Such a plan, such a view, we have in the revealments of the Book of Mormon, where it speaks of the Christ. In its white light a new meaning is given to such traditional phrases as "divine guidance," the "love of God," "obedience," and many others. And we are helped in our faith and trust in him.
Flowers By Sarah Leggett Phelps
The following tribute to flowers was written by Mrs. Sarah Leggett Phelps, a woman 82 years of age, who has been an invalid for fifteen years, from paralysis.
Place them by my bedside so that I may see their display of beautiful colors and their sweet faces. What great power they have! They soften and make the heart glad. They brighten those who are lonely and sad. They make one feel the influence of the giver, who arranged them so artistically in their beds that they might go on their joy-giving journey. Although far away, you feel near by the sweet message the flowers bring. They make me feel that I would like to see the kind face of the giver and gently take her by the hand. They make me happy to know that somewhere someone is thinking of me. Although flowers fade, they leave a sweet remembrance behind that lasts forever.
A Visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission By May Booth Talmage
It was not until near the close of our third year in Europe that the opportunity came for me to visit the Relief Societies of the French Mission. Most tourists would feel a sense of keen disappointment if a trip to the Continent failed to include France, but the very spirit and genius of missionary service is found in going when and where one is sent and in coming when called; and thus it was that other missions, some far more distant, were visited during the earlier years.
It may not be definitely known to all magazine readers that the headquarters of the French Mission are not located in France at all, but in Geneva, Switzerland—the city now famous as the home of the League of Nations, situated on beautiful Lake Geneva. The Mission as a whole, takes in France, Belgium, and the French-speaking part of Switzerland; thus in visiting our Branches in that mission, one meets three distinct types of people even though their language is the same.
Urgent mission duties had taken President Talmage to Scandinavia in early August of 1927, and as it was found advisable to convene a Conference of Mission Presidents and their wives in Dresden during the first week in September, word was sent to Liverpool for me to join President and Sister Rossiter of the French Mission and visit the Relief Societies in Belgium while we were all enroute to Dresden.
Leaving London on the evening of August 19th, I found myself in a compartment with two English college girls who were to spend their vacations in Switzerland; two French women, one of whom was going home after some years of absence from her mother, the other returning from a vacation spent in England; and the sixth occupant was, like myself, an American. The group furnished a most interesting character study for me until we took boat at New Haven for Dieppe. Theretofore, when traveling by boat to Ireland or to Rotterdam, we had gone on board at bedtime and landed on the following morning. The sensation of going to bed under ordinary conditions and getting up at 2 a. M. in a strange country, listening to an unknown language and using unfamiliar coin was most unusual. The waiting train conveyed us to Paris before sunrise, but President Rossiter was already waiting at the station with a cordial welcome. We were soon with Sister Rossiter and several missionaries and other friends from Utah.
192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The sights and scenes of the great French Metropolis have been too often and too ably depicted by pen and screen to justify amateur effort. In all the world there is but one Louvre with its myriads of art treasures; and all the descriptions of all the experts fail to bring the thrill one gets in looking even for a few moments at the Winged Victory, Venus de Milo, or Mona Lisa. One of the most difficult things for me when traveling is to convince myself that I am really seeing the objects about which I have read with such keen interest, but which seemed so far removed. One gets such vivid mind pictures at times about people and places, that when the reality comes, even though it be more striking or pretentious, it is different, and one has to keep adjusting the mind to the new object instead of the old one. On the other hand, there are some places and things that seem like old friends because of their familiar aspect.
The few days of our stay in Paris were filled to the limit with worthwhile experiences, most of which exceeded my expectations; but I confess to a feeling of disappointment over the lack of smartly-dressed women. One's conception of Paris is likely to be that each woman will be wearing—not exactly an "imported" gown, but rather, a "creation" from the hands of Worth or Lucille or Jenney, direct, but our conclusions were that many American cities could furnish better examples of well-dressed women. However, we were informed that the ones we saw were tourists and that the real Parisienne takes a taxi and is seldom seen parading the streets—so much for casual impressions!
One entire day we spent in going over the Battle Fields; the Marne, Belleau Woods, Soissons, Chateau Thierry, etc. The ever-recurring cemeteries with their myriads of crosses seemed to give new meaning to the terms; and the great War became a thing of hideous reality, such as had never been experienced through reading printed page or listening to masterly addresses. One's very soul cried out for a civilization that would outlaw war.
But all of this has no relation whatever to our visit to the Relief Societies of the French Mission. From Paris the Rossiters and I proceeded to Liege, which is the headquarters of the Belgium District. All that has been written in our previous articles concerning the warm welcome and delightful hospitality extended by the people of the missions heretofore visited, could in turn be repeated concerning those in the French Mission in so far as their conditions would permit. Whether in Belgium, in Switzerland or in France, it mattered not. We were made to feel thoroughly at home; and however strange the spoken word, its meaning was made quite clear through tone and gesture. Nothing but love unfeigned, born of the true Gospel spirit, could have given us the assurance of sincerity and the genuine heartglow that was constantly rekindled as we journeyed from place to place, and met new groups of missionaries and new assemblages of Saints.
President Joel H. Bowen and all the traveling missionaries of the District were untiring in their courtesies to us personally, and in their efforts to make the meetings successful. The same thing was true of all the missionaries in all the Districts and we wish it were possible to mention each one in turn and tell of their many kindnesses, for which we have such deep appreciation.
Relief Society Conferences were held in Herstal, Seraing, and Liege, with additional officers' meetings, M. I. A. Gatherings, and Sunday Sacrament services. At all of these there was shown a spirit of keen interest and earnest devotion, that gave assurance of increased and progressive activity. Our sympathies were deeply enlisted in behalf of three missionaries who were in hospitals through illness, and therefore unable to be at our gatherings. Two of them were found cheerfully hopeful of soon being out again; but the stringent rules of the other hospital permitted only President Rossiter to visit the third one, who had typhoid fever. We were glad to learn later that the lives of all were spared.
The Relief Society in Brussels was disorganized; but Sister Rossiter and I visited an earnest little Bible class and spoke to the members concerning our work, and soon thereafter the Society was reorganized and working enthusiastically.
Enroute to Dresden we spent a few pleasant hours in Cologne with District President Leon B. Linford and some of his colaborers. We found them busy and happy in their labors and eager to show us such places of interest as our time would permit. The Cathedral at Cologne with its more than eight thousand carved figures, ranks among the finest of the cathedrals of the world.
Upon our arrival in Berlin we were delightfully surprised to learn from District President Christiansen, who met the train, that President Talmage had arrived from Scandinavia a few hours before. In ten minutes we were with him at the hotel, and soon were joined by officials from Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, who were going to attend the Conference in Dresden, and also by President Valentine of the German-Austrian Mission.
A meeting with the missionaries of the Berlin District on Saturday proved to be a spiritual feast for all of us. On Sunday morning we were assigned to visit three Branches in Berlin, where various auxiliary organizations held officers' meetings preceding the regular Sunday School sessions. I was thus fortunate in being able to meet with the Relief Society Sisters,
194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to join in their testimony meeting and enjoy the splendid spirit. At Sunday School and at the Fast Day service we found everything giving evidence of excellent work being accomplished in that vicinity. A joint gathering of the six branches in Berlin was held in the evening and the large hall filled with members and friends. Musical numbers of a high order delighted the visitors. We were again the recipients of the same type of generous hospitality and warm welcome that had been so liberally extended on our visit two years before.
On Monday, September 5th, it was my great privilege to go for the first time to Leipzig with my husband and President Valentine, where our little meeting hall was dedicated by the former at the gathering held for that purpose, in the evening. It was an occasion long to be remembered. There was just time before the meeting for us to visit the wonderful Denkmal or monument which is so justly famous. An entire article could scarcely do it justice, but a picture may give some faint idea of its colossal magnitude.
As an account of the Mission Presidents' Conference in Dresden, covering a period of four days, has been given elsewhere, we shall only emphasize here its importance as a source of mutual helpfulness, encouragement and blessing to all who participated. At its close the group separated to go their widely divergent ways. President and Sister Cannon had a convention scheduled in Hanover. Presidents Talmage and Valentine proceeded to visit the northern Districts of the German Mission and the one in Austria, after which the former continued on through Bulgaria and Constantinople to Syria, Palestine and Egypt—but that is another story.
Before going to Geneva, Sister Rossiter and I went to Besancon, France. I think there will always remain in my memory the picture of our arrival at this quaint fortified French city not far from war-famed Verdun. The dear little President of the Relief Society, Sister Artaud, awaited us with two huge bouquets of flowers and a look of genuine joy that went straight to my heart. Branch President Stewart Wright and his companion missionary were on hand to give all assistance and a hearty welcome. As the Relief Society had been organized with but five members only a few months before, it was as surprising as it was gratifying to find the hall crowded and extra chairs needed to provide accommodations for those who came. The people who came to all these meetings were not Relief Society members only, as the meetings were for the public generally, that men as well as women not of our faith might learn of the wonderful scope and achievements of this great organization. Among the distinguished people present at Besancon was a director of education and two high school teachers. After a statement of the facts concerning the history, purpose, and achievements of the organization, there were several new applications for membership. We were informed that through the enthusiastic zeal and unceasing efforts of the Relief Society President, she had been instrumental in bringing twenty-two members into the Church.
Many and quaint were the places visited during the all too few hours at our disposal, in this interesting city that is honored in being the birthplace of Victor Hugo.
To one who for more than half a century had thought of a foreign country as a place of magnificent distances to which one might some day be privileged to go, it was somewhat breathtaking and decidedly confusing to find oneself changing countries half a dozen times in as many days. Saturday we were in Germany, Sunday in Czechoslovakia, Monday again over the border in Germany, Tuesday in Switzerland, and Wednesday in France. Each time money must be changed into the kind in current use; but one must guard against getting too much, as the laws forbid taking silver out of one country into another; if the regulation is infringed, the money is subject to confiscation.
Within four hours after boarding the train in Besancon, France, which we were loath to leave so soon, we found ourselves in a little progressive town among the Swiss Mountains, La Chaux du Fonds by name. Here President Leonard D. Robbins and his associates vied with their co-workers in other cities in making our visit successful and pleasant. A good musical program lent interest to the meeting held here, displaying, as it did, the splendid talent of the members participating. The following morning President Robbins succeeded in obtaining permission for us to go through the world-famed Movado Swiss watch factory. Our guide was most courteous and explained all the intricacies of the most delicate mechanism with illuminating results. Some of the wheels are so tiny as to necessitate the hand-glass being used by the workers who separate them into proper receptacles. A highly specialized expert showed the
RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE FRENCH MISSION 197
method used in detecting flaws in tiny cogs of these tiny wheels. The wheel is placed on a disk and magnified 100 times, the shadow being projected onto a brilliantly lighted screen, where the slightest irregularity is at once detected and corrected. Also we were shown the method of making the watches proof against extremes of temperature. What we saw will always give an added interest to watches in general and to Swiss watches in particular.
At Neuchatel we were favored by the presence of President Rossiter again, who, because of urgent mission business, had been obliged to go direct to Geneva. Here, Branch President George Young Jarvis directed the preparations for the very successful evening service. An excellent program given by the members, preceding the addresses by the visiting officers, was deeply appreciated and gave evidence of keen interest and willingness to serve.
This little town, made famous through the cheese that bears its name, has much else to make one wish to linger; but a meeting was scheduled in Lausanne the next night, so we were forced to be content with the few delightful hours we had before our train was due to leave.
There seems to be rather more indifference than prejudice toward the Latter-day Saints in the French Mission; and, as in most Continental countries, we found our members occupying respectable, comfortable halls. In Lausanne, the place of meeting, was a splendid structure and the assembly room was an inspiration with its beautifully polished woodwork and floors. A special feature of our meeting here was an elaborately constructed chart showing the vicissitudes of the Relief Society since its beginning. The increase in activity and achievement within the past two years seemed nothing short of phenomenal, and gave us much encouragement. We feel that great credit is due to Sister Rossiter, under whose able supervision the work throughout the entire mission has made such rapid strides. Elder Parker Pratt Warner was in charge of the spirited meeting of the Relief Societies held on Saturday night in Lausanne. We had time only for a tantalizing glimpse of this lovely town with but an hour or so between our arrival and time for meeting, but we made a choice between seeing and eating in favor of the former. At its close we proceeded to Geneva by late train.
We were made to feel the same delightful sense of freedom in this mission home that we had felt at other mission headquarters, and we are thoroughly convinced that this "homey" feeling is quite a characteristic of such places of abode among our people.
In Geneva, on Sunday afternoon, four members were added to the Church. A simple yet very impressive service was held preceding the baptisms, and at its close, the candidates stepped
198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bravely down into the waters of Lake Geneva and came forth with deeply grateful hearts, unto a veritable newness of life. The evening service was devoted largely to Mutual Improvement topics. All were delighted to have as one speaker the Editor of the Deseret News, Brother Harold Goff who, as a guest of the Carnegie Endowment Fund for International Peace, had enjoyed the splendid opportunities afforded to visit different countries.
Several weeks of preparation had been made for the Relief Society gathering held in Geneva on Monday night. The musical numbers, under the direction of Branch President Cope, were excellent; the dramatization of "The Ten Virgins" by members of the Society, was very commendable, as was indeed the superior work of the Society as a whole, as set forth in the carefully prepared report of its Relief Society Branch President.
On Tuesday, Sister Rossiter and I traveled to Lyons, France, where the final Conference was held in the evening at the attractive home of Sister Barthemeuf, with district and branch presidents Harold S. Cole, and S. Hensley Cortez, in charge. Though the membership is not as large as in most other places visited, there was a wonderful spirit and the meeting was one long to be remembered. Preceding the meeting we had a magnificent view of Lyons, from a high tower, which is in size and importance foremost among the cities of France. It is a great industrial center for silk manufacture, and its marvelous products are sent throughout the civilized world.
After the meeting, Sister Rossiter and the devoted corps of missionaries who labor in that District, accompanied me to the station to wave adieu as long as the train was in sight; and thus ended another delightful chapter in my book of rich experiences.
To President and Sister Rossiter, for their efficient and devoted efforts, to their daughter, Betty, and to all the missionaries and members who were so thoughtful and helpful, and so generous with flowers and other gifts, I shall always feel deeply grateful.
After a few days in Italy, I reached England in time to be at the Norwich Conference while enroute to Liverpool, and among the messages brought from headquarters was the cablegram telling of our release and the appointment of Brother and Sister Widtsoe. There was much joy in the thought of an honorable release, and of the home-going, but mingled with the joy there was a tinge of regret at facing the prospect of permanent separation from our numerous warm friends; but as was said in the beginning, missionaries who labor in the Master's service are subject to call, whether to go or to return—grateful always for the blessed privilege and opportunity of being among the ones who are "called."
Dr. Emmeline B. Wells Memorial
A most unique and truly significant occasion was the impressive ceremony of the unveiling of the statue of Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, which occurred Wednesday afternoon, February twenty-ninth, at the State Capitol, marking the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Mrs. Wells. The statue was the gift to the state from the women of the state, in loving remembrance of Mrs. Wells's outstanding service to humanity, especially to women. "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, was one of the great women of the century, known far and near as the unfailing advocate and the undaunted champion of every movement calculated for the advancement of her sex and the betterment of the human race. She loved all things that were good—youth, intelligence, beauty, virtue, art and nature, and was herself the epitome of all the charm and virtues of womanhood. She gave of her unusual gifts freely and unselfishly to mankind, and the beautiful tribute now erected in her honor not only perpetuates in human memory the charms and attainments of a distinguished woman, but expresses for the thousands who contributed to it the affection and admiration felt for one who to them typifies their highest ideals.
The movement for the tribute started in November, 1927, when Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, a dear friend and admirer of Mrs. Wells, remembering that the one hundredth anniversary of her birth was close at hand, invited a number of friends to meet and consider how best to celebrate the occasion. There was a gratifying response to the invitation, and after many of those present expressed their love and appreciation for Aunt Em, many giving personal reminiscences of her helpfulness, it was decided that the day should be commemorated not only by a gathering of friends with fragrant memories, but also that it should in some appropriate way mark an epoch for women in the state. It was then and there decided to have a marble bust of Aunt Em executed
200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by Cyrus E. Dallin, one of Utah's gifted sons, and to present it to the state as a gift from the women. At this meeting the Emmeline B. Wells Centennial Memorial Association was organized with Dr. Jane W. Skolfield as chairman; Mrs. F. S. Richards, first vice-chairman; Mrs. Sol Siegel, second vice-chairman; Mrs. E. O. Howard, third vice-chairman; Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, fourth vice-chairman; Mrs. Mary Kelly Pye, secretary; Mrs. Ernest Bamberger, treasurer; and Mrs. Alonzo B. Irvine, assistant treasurer; Mrs. Georgiana Marriott of Ogden, chairman of the advisory committee; and the names of many prominent women as patrons. Thus was the campaign launched, and under the able direction of the chairman, Dr. Skolfield, it was brought to a most delightful and satisfactory completion.
The plan was to reach all the women of the state regardless of position in life, religion or any other condition, and to give them all an opportunity to become identified with the project. To this end chairmen were appointed in all the counties of the state, and these chairmen reached the women through their various clubs and organizations. Weekly meetings were held by the central committee to hear reports and attend to the many details that claimed attention from time to time. The committee had the hearty assistance of the state officials, notably the Board of Examiners, consisting of Governor George H. Dern, Secretary of State H. E. Crockett, and Attorney General Harvey H. Cluff, with whose permission and under whose direction the proposed statue was to be given a place in the State Capitol. As finally located, the bust of Mrs. Wells occupies the northwest niche in the rotunda; the first statue to be placed in Utah's hall of fame.
On the occasion of the unveiling, an assemblage of several hundred people, including many in high positions in Church and state, filled the rotunda, the stairs, and galleries. The exercises were presided over by Mrs. C. E. Maw, president of the state federation of women's clubs, who in a brief address extolled the work and life of Mrs. Wells. The Ogden chorus of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers in pioneer costume sang "Our Utah Pioneers," after which President Heber J. Grant gave the invocation. "Our Mountain Home So Dear" was then sung by a quartet under the direction of Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris. The words of this lovely little hymn were by Mrs. Wells, while the music was composed by Professor Evan Stephens, who was present and played the accompaniment. Following a beautiful selection by a string orchestra under the direction of Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, in a tender and touching manner, presented the statue to the state. Addressing the Governor, she told of the
DR. EMMELINE B. WELLS 201
fine service of Mrs. Wells through the long years, her culture, her motherhood, her literary attainments, mentioning that she was the first person in the state to receive an honorary collegiate degree from a local educational institution when at the advanced age of eighty-four she was thus honored by the Brigham Young University—with the degree of doctor of literature. Dr. Skolfield spoke of Aunt Em's remarkable personality, drawing a picture of her as thousands present might remember—her frail, slight, almost ethereal figure in soft silks and pastel shades, threading her way among friends with all the grace and dignity of a queen.
Mrs. Emmeline C. Martineau, a granddaughter and namesake of Mrs. Wells, then unveiled the statue by drawing aside the gorgeous silk curtains which had concealed it, and there was an intense and breathless moment preceding the Governor's response, as all gazed on the beautiful likeness in its classic, marble setting.
Governor Dern, in accepting the gift for the state, said that he saw in these ceremonies an example of how the people still loved to honor a life and character so endowed and so well employed as Mrs. Wells had been; for she measured up well to the standards of greatness to which the people all yield their homage. It is significant, he remarked, that the first statue to be placed in Utah's pantheon should be that of a woman—this bespeaks the high estate which woman holds in this commonwealth and is notice to the world that nowhere is a good woman held in loftier esteem than here. The speaker declared that Mrs. Wells deserves the unique distinction accorded her; for she typifies the pioneer woman whose character always excites unstinted admiration, enduring hardships in transforming the wilderness from the rude state to a civilized community of homes; that she was a pioneer woman of the intellectual type also. Her interest extended beyond the state, and national leaders acknowledged the value of her help in forward looking movements for the welfare of womankind. Governor Dern then accepted the gift in behalf of the state and gave assurance that it would always have a place of honor in the Capitol, where it will serve as an inspiration to future generations. In conclusion he expressed gratitude to the committee and others who had aided in perpetuating the memory of so distinguished and lovable a woman.
After the reading of some of Mrs. Wells' verses by Mrs. Don C. Coray, and an expression of gratitude from the family, by Mr. Junius F. Wells, the exercises concluded with the singing of "America."
The rotunda of the Capitol was made attractive with potted palms and plants. A beautiful silk national flag was near the statue, while the state flag hung back of the speakers. Red and white roses in an antique vase were on the piano, over which was
202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
draped "Aunt Em's" familiar Paisley shawl. The curtains used in the unveiling were the portieres made for the woman's building at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893. They are of Utah silk embroidered in sego lilies, and are now one of the rare historic possessions of the state.
It is gratifying to contemplate and to commend the vision and devotion of the women who have made this memorial a glorious fact. Not only have they honored the memory of a great woman; they have in this act honored all women. They have enriched their own state with a beautiful work of art by a master hand; and they have marked out a luminous path that other states may well follow in perpetuating in pure, imperishable stone, the loftiest, holiest ideals of womanhood.

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

42 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah of  CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS 28 years experience specializing in high grade investments. Send for our list of recommendations. Edward L. Burton & Co 160 So. Main Wasatch 866 Salt Lake City, Utah  SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home. For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. It has the flavor of fresh berries. Kitchen King Jam Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GUAGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking?a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway 7, What is FLAVOR ZONE Electric Cooking  See the WESTINGHOUSE Automatic Electric Ranges in our store?and let us tell you all about it. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service ?When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE NEW FAST ROTAREX Gyrator Washer SPEEDY AMAZING Smooth, Silent LOW PRICE Performance These Features STURDY in the NEW CONSTRUCTION ROTAREX HANDSOME Will Astonish You APPEARANCE EASY TERMS THE UNEXCELLED ROTAREX WASHING ACTION The "dome-like"' agitator ( in center post), with its washing paddle and clothes-pusher, semi-turns in a half-circle movement 62 times a minute, imparting a rotation of the clothes being washed, and giving proper attention to every garment or other piece. In from five to eight minutes a six-pound batch of laundry may be beautifully and cleanly washed. There is a minimum of wear in the Rotarex washing action and the daintiest things may be intrusted to it without fear of their being damaged. The absence of a center 2 post eliminates the wrapping of clothes and = strings. FOR FREE HOME TRIAL Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 43-69 East 4th South DISTRIBUTORS Phone Was. 354 Wedding Bells Always Ring in June Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS HANNAH POU 475 N MAIN BRIGHAM CITY UTAH INVESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Below 50 Baby?s milk should be kept below 50 to stop growth of harmful bacteria Electrice SelfDe-frosting BEFORE INVESTING, INVESTIGATE ElectrICE can guarantee greater efficiency with far less power consumption. There are only two moving parts. ElectrICE was TESTED for wear and loss in efficiency, after operating continuously for over 26,000 hours, and came through 100%. This is equal to 12 years' actual service in your home. Can any other Refrigerator show such a record? ElectrICE is the product of the greatest manufacturing combination in the world; Belding-Hall and American Radiator Companies. Let us PROVE to you that there are certain features, which are absolutely necessary in maintaining perfect refrigeration, and also that these great advantages are only found in the? SELF DEFROSTING ELECTRICE GUARANTEED TO BE THE MOST EFFICIENT?THE MOST ECONOMICAL ELECTRICE SHOP REFRIGERATION SALES CORPORATION ?Distributors? Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine IN VESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Phone Wasatch 7083: 135 East Second South Merit Bread q Best Quality and Full W eight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery LINES EY Sere ? Special Round Trip Summer Fares VIA SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS ? AQ, 00 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $47, 50 direct or route reversed...Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY?MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST. _ SALT LAKE CITY \ PHONES WAS. 3008?3078 ?? ? _ Nobody can stop loss. Everybody can avoid it through ad INSURANCE | When you" come here for insurance you get it, coupled with attentive experienced service. This is an agency of the Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. UTAH -~HOME-FIRE INSURANCE CO., | HEBER J. GRANT , General Agents, Salt Lake city, Utah; C? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine via SAN FRANCISCO An Overall with a Classy Appearance MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flower Mill Operator, the '. Dairyman, the 5 Garage Man, the Teamster. None Too Large None Too Small, Are You Satisfied With Your Old Furnace? BUY A FURNACE THAT IS GAS AND SMOKE PROOF Install the FAMOUS ROUND OAK FURNACE and save cleaning and doctor bills. The health and comfort of your wife and children is determined by the kind of furnace you install in your home more than anything else. We have Furnaces for all size buildings. Let us figure the heating system for your Chapel or Amusement Hall. Free estimates as to cost of installations. Modern Furniture Company "Trade With Your Friends" J. B. Sharp, Vice President When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 7187 E. E. Jenkins, President Wasatch 6205 E.E. Davey, Manager LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS At Factory-to-Customer Prices
The following numbers are made in old or new style for either Men or Women
1 Ribbed light weight cotton, with Rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number (new style only)................$1.25 2 Ribbed light weight cotton. Our standard summer weight (old style only)....$1.25 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton bleached. Our all season number...............$1.75 4 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton. Our double back number...........$2.25 5 Part wool, ribbed, unbleached. Our best selling wool number...............$3.00 6 High grade Rayon Tricot silk. For particular people.....................$3.50 7 Pure worsted wool with Silkine Mercerized cotton. Our best medium winter number.....................$5.75 8 Ribbed heavy weight, unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number........$5.75 9 Ribbed medium weight, wool and cotton. Our light weight, winter number......$4.75
In ordering be sure and specify whether Old or New Style Garments, three-quarter, or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure and height and weight to insure a perfect fit.
Mail Orders Filled Promptly
THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 28 Richards Street 1 Block South of Temple Gate
Briant Stringham, Manager
L. D. S. GARMENTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years.
No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new style.........$ .75 No. 74 Lt. Weight combed........ 1.15 No. 64 Medium weight............ 1.45 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle........ 1.45 No. 62 Medium heavy............. 1.70 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight............. 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, ? wool...... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, ? wool.... 3.85
Please state whether for men or women?new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash?Cash Pays
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight....$.95 264 Rayon Silk.............. 3.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes...... 1.65 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.25
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt....... 1.45 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt......... 2.50 108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt... 1.85 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.......4.00
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M. GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine