Emmeline B. Wells, in the hall of fame, at the Utah State Capitol, should also contain the story of Mrs. Richards' seventy-ninth birthday. These two women first met at a dinner given by Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde. They were the only guests. When Mrs. Richards turned to the duties of her home life it was Emmeline B. Wells who assumed the responsibility of editor. Long life is a blessing extended by our Heavenly Father to both these gifted women whose names must ever appear in the spotlight whenever the periodicals of the Relief Society are discussed.
We congratulate our first editor on having reached her seventy-ninth birthday, enjoying the vigor of mind and body which is hers. We trust there are other joyous years ahead of her; and that she may each day partake of a full measure of our Father's blessings.
The Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon
For a number of years American students and lovers of drama have been reading a play by George Middleton called "Nowadays." The plot of the play is concerned with a young woman who has artistic ability and who enters a contest for a statue which is to be placed in the city hall in her home town. The heroine wins
EDITORIAL 205
first place because her sketch, all things considered, is the most desirable. In the selection of the plan for the new Shakespearean Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, we have the realization of this story. Miss Elizabeth Scott, who is the "daughter of a Bournemouth doctor," is only twenty-nine years of age. In accepting her plan the committee seemed to feel that it incorporates more desirable features than does any other plan submitted. In fact, George Bernard Shaw, the dean of English playwrights, stated that Miss Scott's was the only plan that had "theatre sense." He meant that she had grasped the essentials of the interior of a theatre as well as those of the exterior.
Women everywhere will feel proud of Miss Scott's achievement. Women are lovers of the stage, and among outstanding dramatic stars there are many women. Shakespeare's women stand out conspicuously; the mere mention of them will bring to mind those who have successfully played Shakespearean roles. The names of Ellen Terry, Lady Tree, Laura Cowey, Julia Marlowe, Genevieve Hamper, and Jane Cowl will suggest others who, in England and the United States, have starred in Shakespearean roles. It may suffice to say Miss Scott's achievement is exceedingly pleasing to women, many of whom will look forward to visiting the new Memorial Theatre at Stratford on its completion.
On the Stratford stage at the present time one may see the best talent of London; since it is possible for the foremost English players to put on a performance in Stratford in the afternoon and return to London in the evening in time to fill an engagement in the city theatres.
The Purchase of the Hill Cumorah
We hear a great deal at the present time about doing things at the psychic moment. Certainly the Church is to be congratulated on having selected the psychic moment for the purchase of the Hill Cumorah. It is quite the custom to select the centenary of an event in which to do some outstanding thing in commemoration of the event; and to commemorate the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon the Church elected to do the one thing appropriate and satisfying above all others. Any other act in connection with the event might have fallen short of imparting the same satisfaction. As it is, a deep-seated desire of the Latter-day Saints has been fulfilled. Thousands of them have already visited the hill, and it is safe to say that the desire to visit this place will increase. As interest deepens in the Book of Mormon, so will the feeling for the sacredness of the place from which the plates were taken. To the Latter-day Saint this place can never be other than a hallowed spot.