BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	On Thursday, January 31st, at 3 p.m., a party
of ladies assembled, by invitation, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, to celebrate the 
birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, who, on
that day, reached the 68th anniversary of her
birth.  The party had been arranged beforehand
by Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beattie, two of the 
daughters of the late Brigham Young, and to
whom Sister Young has been a mother in very
deed; their own mother, Mrs. Clarissa R. Young,
having died while they were children.  Mrs.
Dougall's elegant parlors were thrown open and
were well filled with guests, the invited friends
and co-laborers of Mrs. Young, in whose honor 
this goodly company had been called together.
Congratulations were in order and the conversa-
tion was general until about 5 p.m., when a delic-
ious lunch was served in dainty style, by young
ladies, whose charming appearance gave zest and
tone to the sumptuous collation.
	When all had partaken of the bounties prepared
for their delectation, Mrs. Dougall, the hostess,
proposed that the party resolve itself into a
meeting, and Mrs. M. I. Horne, was unanimously
appointed to preside.
	The meeting opened by singing the favorite
hymn "O My Father," etc., Prayer was offered
by Sister M. A. Freeze.  Sister Horne made a
few opening remarks, appropriate to such a
gathering and such an occasion and congratulated
Sister Zina in having so successfully labored in
the interests of Zion and so forth.  Sister Sarah
M. Kimball and other ladies followed in the same
or a similar strain, and Sister Zina responded in
grateful acknowledgement of the honor tendered
her and gave some items of experience and ex-


pressed fervently her good wishes for all present.
Subsequently songs of Zion were sung <in ton> by some
of the sisters and also the interpretation given,
and it was a time of rejoicing, a spiritual feast to
all who participated therein. 
	Sister Jane S. Richards came in during the
meeting and very happily responded to the invita-
tion of Sister Horne to say a few words, although
she had not been present during the first part of
the evening.  It was the the birthday anniversary
of Sister Richards as well as that of Sister Young 
though the former lady is two years younger. 
Sister Richards had been to Ogden by special in-
vitation of her children to spend a part of her
birthday with them.  But in response to the invi-
tation of Sister Young’s daughters, came in to
show her appreciation and friendship, and join
with the other sisters in congratuations and re-
spect to Sister Zina, who now fills the place of
honor in the Relief Society of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, viz. the
Elect lady.  Sister Jane S. Richards is her first
Counselor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith her
second Counselor.  The party was indeed a very
enjoyable one in many respects, and a sweet spirit
of love and harmony pervaded every breast.
There were several of the widows and of the
daughters of the late Pres. Young present.  At the
close of the meeting the Doxology was sung and 
a benediction pronounced by Sister M. W.
Wilcox.
	The EXPONENT offers its sincere congratula-
tions to Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister Jane
S. Richards, wishing for them many happy re-
turns of the day, with renewed prosperity and
joy in their labors for the welfare of Zion.


