BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held in Rexburg, Nov. 17, 1888, Prest Tem-
perance Hinckley presiding. Meeting opened 
by singing. Prayer by Coun. Rigby.
Singing. Roll was then called, and minutes 
of previous conference were read and approved.
 The Stake and local officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Stake Prest.
Temperance Hinckley was pleased to meet the 
sisters of the Relief Society; would liked to 
have seen more present. Exhorted all to 
come to their meetings. “If you feel deter-
mined to come, you can, for ‘where there’s a
will there’s a way.’” Earnestly advised the 
mothers of Zion to be prayerful and humble.
“Attend to your secret prayers, for much good
is derived from secret prayer. If you are de-
pressed in your feelings, if you will kneel 
down and pray God will help you, and your
burden will seem light.” Advised the mothers 
to bring up their children in the fear and ad-
monition of God; too much cannot be said on 
this subject. “The teachers of the Relief So-
ciety should be very diligent, and seek for the 
Spirit of God to help them to perform their 
duties in a right and acceptable manner, for a 
great responsibility is resting on them. You 
should visit the sick, and see that the poor are 
cared for.” Asked the blessing of the Lord to 
be with us to aid us in the truth and all good 
works.
	Stake Coun. Sarah A. Gunnel bore a strong 
testimony to the truth of this work; made some 
good and timely remarks; spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. “Although you have 
many things bearing upon you in body and 
spirit you should not give up; remember, ‘No
cross, no crown,’ and press forward with re-
newed diligence.”
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm spoke with 
power; exhorted the mothers to inculcate good
principles in the bosoms of their children.
“You should teach them to be pure, virtuous 
and chaste, even as our Father in heaven and 
His son Jesus Christ are. Should we curse 
our enemies? No; we should pray for them; as 
Jesus said, when nailed to the cross, “Oh, God!
forgive them, for they know not what they
do.” We should pray for the missionaries 
who are laboring for the work of God, and 
those who are pleading for us in the halls
of Congress. We should live pure lives,
so that when we are called to lay down our 
bodies we can rise crowned heirs in the king-
dom of God.” Asked for the Spirit of God to
rest on all the branches of the Relief Society 
in Zion.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes bore her testimony 
to the truth of this work. “If any one of 
you do not have a knowledge for yourselves 
that this is the true kingdom of God, take 
the Doctrine and Covenants, Book of Mormon 
and Bible and study them carefully, and it is 
so plain any one can have a knowledge, if they 
will seek with prayerful hearts. I feel that a 
large portion of the Spirit of God has been with 
us; we have heard many good things, and we 
should try to remember them and put them in 
practice. The counsel in regard to bringing 
up our children is good and from God.” Asked
God to bless us and help us to do right.
	Stake Coun. W. F. Rigby exhorted all to 
faithfulness in keeping the commandments of 
God. “We are living in a wicked world, for
many curse God, and it behooves you as 
mothers in Israel to be very prayerful, for un-
less you seek the Father you will not be able 
to keep your sons and daughters from the con-
taminating influences of the outside element.
I realize that a great responsibility rests on the
mothers of Zion; you each have a mission to
perform; if you can bring up your children to 
be honorable and to be saved in the kingdom 
of God, you have done a great work. Visit 
the homes of the sisters; encourage them, and 
invite them to come to meeting.” Gave many 
good and timely instructions. Asked God to 
bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks addressed the conference;
expressed his approbation of the work of the 
Society. Said he was more than pleased with 
the remarks of the speakers; advised the sis-
ters to prepare in time for the next conference,
and be there, “and you that are here will feel,
when you go home, that you have been richly 
repaid for coming, for a large portion of the 
Spirit of God has been here. You should be 
strict in every word and act, so you can gain 
confidence in each other; cultivate a spirit that 
will bless and comfort your sisters; when any 
one is cast down cheer them up. I think we 
are as free from talking about our neighbors 
as any place I was ever in.” Gave many 
good instructions, which sank deep into the 
hearts of all present; also spoke of the good-
ness of the Lord unto us. Asked God to bless 
us in all we are called to do.
	Prest. T. Hinckley said she was well pleased 
with the meeting; thought we had been well
repaid for coming, “and I have been highly 
pleased with the good instructions we have 
received from Prest. Ricks and Coun. Rigby.
I thank them for their kind remembrance.
	Conference was then adjourned for three 
months.  Closed by singing, ‘'Glorious things
of thee are spoken.” Benediction by Telitha
J. Helm.
