		    EMINENT WOMEN.
	Distinguished women of the past are a study,
as well as men of mark.  Though they have
been fewer in number, and have had more
hindrances in the way of their progress, yet,
recorded in the annals of history, are the
names of some illustrious women, who deserve
to be held in honorable remembrance, for the
service they have done the world in education,
science, art and literature.  We recall their
names with a mingled degree of just pride and
pleasure, and we are gratified to remember
them as holding rank among the noble bene-
factors of the human race.  Some we cannot
help loving, though we find them very imper-
fect in character, and faulty in their lives.
Yet we must recollect their peculiar condition
and surroundings, the age in which they lived
with all its bigotry and prejudices, and make
due allowance for human weaknesses.  Often
we have a lingering tenderness for those of
whom we read; they appeal to our sympathies
and call out the emotions of our affectional
nature, and stimulate us through these, to
deeds of kindness, and noble exertions to be-
come worthy a similar place in the hearts of
our contemporaries.  Others only excite our
admiration; yet candor compels us to acknowl-
edge their power as a lever in the social struct-
ure; albeit they do not touch our hearts, or en-
list our affections.  We should not be forgetful
of those who have labored to better the condi-
tion of their fellow-beings, though they have
passed on to another stage of action.  Mankind
are reaping the benefits of their works and
their books, through the effect their lives and
sentiments have had upon education, laws,
governments and public opinion.  There is
much to be learned from the lives of individu-
als.  But we can only study those of a past
age, who have made themselves known to the


public. Many have died, who have been bet-
ter in their day and generation, and more ca-
pable perchance of noble deeds, yet had not
the moral courage and the stamina to come
forward and brave the ridicule and censure
the world heaps upon those who enter the arena
of public life.

"Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
	The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
	And waste its sweetness on the desert air"

	Bitter taunts and withering sarcasms are
almost invariably aimed at women who step
aside from the common, beaten track of every-
day life. Opprobrious epithets, the severest
criticisms and actual persecutions have, in
many instances, been literally heaped upon the
envied possessors of genius or talent who have
launched forth unheralded into the world of
literature, or sought to maintain with strength
of character and firmness of purpose, their
original views and opinions in the face of op-
position. Jealousy and unprincipled ambition
for honor, or success, even at the expense of
others' downfall, sometimes points with
poisoned malice the winged arrows of hate
and scorn, which hurled at the innocent and
unsuspecting wound terribly in secret, though
the brave hearts quail not, nor betray any out-
ward sign of agony. He or she who can live
above these trials, or pass unscathed through
such ordeals, surely deserve this meed of praise,
for they are the heroes of a series of life's
battles, hard indeed to be endured and difficult
to run against the fearful odds of ignorance,
envy and superstition.

	"He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there's not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest."

	In recalling to mind the subject of eminent
women of the past, and linking therewith some
names well known to the world, my mind
rested casually upon the two Montagues. I
believe they are sometimes confused in the 
mind, as they have both given to the world a
series of letters, and not remembered as two,
but one. Lady Mary Wortley Montague was
the first woman Montague known as a litera-
teur, and although she was not born a Monta-
gue, is known only by that name as a writer,
She was the daughter of Evelyn Pierrepont,
Luke of Kingston, and was born at Thoresby,
Nottinghamshire, in the year 1690, and is said
to have been a very "clever and beautiful
child." She received a liberal education, but
being eager for a more thorough knowledge,
she taught herself the elements of Latin, and
became well versed in the Greek and Latin
languages. She was of a sportive tempera-
ment and brilliant and lively imagination,
which is noticeable through her "famous cor-
respondence." She was an exquisite dancer,
and in one of her letters she says: "I taught
the Viennese some new country-dances, they
only knowing half a dozen, which they had
been practicing over and over again, during a
period of some fifty years."
	She considered it "as scanalous for a woman
not to know how to use her needle, as it was
for a man not to know how to use a sword."
She was quite distinguished for vivacity, wit,
love of anecdote and "large general energy."
She disliked sorrow, and maintained that sor-
row for the dead is teh vainest form of feeling.
Yet she carried through all her literary pro-
ductions a firm thread of sound common
sense.
	She was married at twenty-two to Edward
Wortley Montague, grandson of the first Earl
of Sandwich. It is said of her that she was
insensible to tenderness, her heart cold, lifeless
and umimpressionable. "She held romantic
sentimentalitv in comtempt." In one of her
letters addressed to her intended husband, she

[Column 2]

thus expresses herself: "I can esteem, I can be
a friend, but don't know whether I can love.
Expect all that is complacent and easy, but
never what is fond, in me." Her husband, it
is said was as destitute as herself of romantic
sentiment. He was a diplomatist, distinguished
himself in Parliament, and was the intimate
friend of Addison.
	Lady Montague accompanied her husband
in 1716 to the court of Constantinople, whither
he went as ambassador, and during her sojourn
there wrote an interesting description of that
wonderful city in letters to her friends. A
surreptitious edition of these letters was pub-
lished in 1763. They were so well received as
to pass through several issues and to be trans-
lated into many languages. A genuine edition
of these and her other works was published
under the authority of her son, the Marquis of
Bute, in 1803.
	There is a circumstance connected with her
life in Constantinople, which has caused her to
be remembered with gratitude by all classes of
people. She learned from the villagers of the
practice of inoculation for the small pox, and
performed the operation herself upon her son,
and by this means and through her influence
inoculation was introduced into the West of
Europe. After Lady Mary's return to Eng-
land, she resided at Twickenham, where she
"formed an intimacy with the celebrated poet,
Pope." Sometime after, the friendship was
broken off, and "the poet was ignoble enough
to write satires against her talents and reputa-
tion," which he afterwards denied.
	In 1739 she went to Venice, on account of
her failing health, where she lived twenty-two
years, then returning to England, died in the
following year, 1762. Her great-grandson,
Lord Wharncliffe, published a complete edition
of her writings in 1836, under the title of
"Letters and Works of Lady Mary Wortley
Montague."
	This celebrated lady is said to have been a
keen observer of human character, and her
literary productions are spoken of as well-
polished mirrors, wherein might be discerned
the social condition of England in the seven-
teenth and eighteenth centuries, respectively.
This lady was proud rather than vain, and
prided herself on her social and literary dis-
tinction. She was not what would be styled
"popular." It has been said that "it is doubt-
ful about her ever being loved and respected
for herself." She was at one time elected a
"toast" by the Kitcat Club, an association of
literary people, whose friendship she enjoyed,
and yet says one who has written of her, "It is
very problematical if she ever actually secured
what Aristotle styles a friend "for virtue's 
sake." Let us be lenient to Lady Mary's
faults, remembering the peculiarity of her time,
and the sensuality that marked the reign of
Charles II. Here is an extract from one of
her poems. It reveals a true picture of
woman's estimate at that period, even by one
of her own sex.

"While thirst of praise, and vain desire of fame,
In every age is every woman's aim;
With courtship pleased, of silly titles proud,
Fond of a train, and happy in a crowd."

