WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y.  L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the St. Joseph Stake of Zion convened
at Thatcher, November 31st, 1888, President
Willmirth East presiding. On the stand, of
the Stake authorities, Prest. Christopher Lay-
ton and Counselors. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "Once more we come before Thee, Lord."
Prayer offered by Patriarch Philemon Merrill.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved; also the Stake and local reports.
	After the presidents had reported their
various wards, Bro Merrill, by request, gave a
brief report of the St. David Society, there be-
ing no lady representative of that ward
present.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransome spoke a short time
on the duties of mothers in training their
children in the principles of the Gospel. "We
should be more diligent in teaching them to
attend the Primaries,” etc.
	Meeting adjourned till 2. p.m. Benediction
by Coun. Wm. Johnson.	
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing and
prayer. Prest. East said: “It is the manifesta-
tions of the power of God that has gathered
us from the nations of the earth, and it is left
with us to be subject to the priesthood of God
that is placed upon the earth to guide us; it is
only the faithful that will stand the tests, etc;
it is therefore necessary that we seek diligently
for the Spirit of God to lead us in the paths of
right and rectitude. I am proud to represent
the women of Zion, and pray that I may ever
be found faithful in the performance of my
duties.”
	The Stake and local officers were pre-
[Column 2]
sented before the conference and sustained.
Prest. C. Layton and Patriarch Merrill occu-
pied the remainder of the afternoon, instruc-
ting the sisters in their various duties; were
pleased to know that the poor were cared for;
wished the different branches of the Society to
lend all the aid they could in assisting the
Indian missionaries in their labors. Among
other remarks said: "We should be humble
and prayerful at all times, that we may wield
an influence for good over our husbands and
sons. We are left to ourselves, and in conse-
quence of this, many are flaunting in the pomp
and pride of the world; it is therefore necessary
that we seek diligently to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may gain an inheritance
in His kingdom.”		
	The presidents of the various branches were
instructed to keep on hand material for cloth-
ing the dead. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop John Taylor.
