		   ILMA DI MURSKA

	Many of our theatre-going citizens have a﻿
pleasant remembrance of the visit to our city
of Maurice Strakosch and his opera company
in 1875, and how the beautiful voice of Ilma
Di Murska charmed and electrified them. It
was a time when little of the legitimate opera
was known in Salt Lake, and few opportunities
[column 2]
had been afforded the music-loving of hearing
the classical notes or trained voices of renown.
True some famed and wonderful singers, among
whom were Parepa Rosa and Anna Bishop
had honored us with a visit and delighted us
with concert singing; and we remember how
eager we were to compare the wonderful voice
of Mme Bishop with the beautiful and ex-
quisite voice of our own Mrs. Careless, and
what exultant pride we felt in the comparison.
Then, also once, only once before had we the
privilege of hearing real opera; what a feast it
was, when Hess brought to us his English
Opera Company with Carleton, Castle, Maas,
Conly, Annie Beaumont, Seguin, and others
equally renowned. The people were hungry
for music, and every night the large theatre
was filled with a charmed and enthusiastic
audience. We were not critical then for our
knowledge of music was about as limited as
our opportunities.
	Since those days we have watched with some
interest the career of these early artists, their
rise or fall, their fame or fate. Carleton has
 visited many times since, but no more as the
baritone in heavy opera, but as the Prince of
opera comique; Castle, they say has lost his
beautiful tenor voice, but still insists in appear-
ing before the public on the concert stage in
remote towns in the East; Maas, poor Maas,
how lovely his voice rang out in that one act
from Rigoletto and thrilled us until we could
scarcely keep our seats, but felt like rising to
our feet and cheering him, and, he right at the
zenith of his glory died in London; Conly with
his magnificent bass voice visited us once again
in company with Mme. Kellog and he, alas!
was drowned; Seguin has retired; of Beaumont
we never hear; of Di Murska the late despatches
from, Munich tell us she is dead, died in great
poverty and her daughter, heart-broken, poi-
soned herself; the remains of the two were
taken to Gotha and cremated, and on the Urn
containing their ashes, one may read: “These
ashes are all that remains of a nightingale.”
Mme. Di Murska’s career was bright but brief;
at her death she was only in her forty-sixth
year and her public life lasted scarcely eighteen
years. She was born in Croatia in 1843. She
studied the art of song at Vienna and at Paris
under Signor and Mme. Marchesi. In 1862
she made her debut in opera at the Pergola
Theatre in Florence and was kindly received.
Three years later she accepted an offer to sing
at Her Majesty’s Theatre in London, at that
time the Mecca of Italian opera singers, the
part of Lucia in Donnizetti’s familiar opera,
and was a pronounced success. From that time
her star was in the ascendant, and her fame
was widespread. Between 1873 and 1876 she
visited this country, Australia and New Zealand;
at that time her voice was perfect. Two years
since, when she again visited this country, her
old admirers found the sweetness and quality
of her voice gone, and, feeble in strength, she
was unable to fulfil the duties either of concert
singer or instructress, and returned once more
to Europe, where she has since lived in retire-
ment.
	It is sad to think that one so bright, so much
admired and so successful should die in poverty,
but such is often the fate of greatness. It was
meet that one, who had charmed the world with
her song should die at Munich and be cremated
at Gotha, two cities so famed as musical centres.
The very mention of these names brings to
mind thoughts of song and melody; they are
places all lovers of the divine art long to visit,
and it seems most fitting for one whose soul so
wedded to the art should die in such a place.
							A. W. C.


