			BOOKS. 

	If you want good work done in science, or
art, or literature, you must endow people, it is
said; with the means of giving their whole
time to it. There is a certain a priori plausi-
bility about the demand which often persuades
an unthinking mind of its truth. But as a
matter of fact it is opposed to the lessons of
experience, and even to the laws of human
nature. Indeed, the "Endowment of Re-

[column 2]
search” would, we verily believe, be the best
possible way to ensure the worst possible results,
both in quantity and quality: In quantity,
because the pressure of other occupations is of
itself a spur to intellectual activity—so much
so that it has come to be almost a proverb that
the busiest men have always the most time to
spare. And in quality, because removal from
the “rough-and-tumble” of the work-a-day
world distorts a man’s judgement and narrows
his vision—so much so that mankind at large
always feels some deserved contempt for the
“armchair” writer.	
	On the other hand, the history of literature
is full of examples which show the bracing
and the broadening effects of their other work
upon authors who have been busy men.  Aris-
totle and Plato did not clamor, like our modern
University dons, to be relieved of the “drudg-
ery” of teaching; but rather found, like so
many of the Great German Professors, their best
stimulus in their disciples Bacon(who, even
if he did not write Shakespeare, wrote quite
enough on his own account) was busier than
bustling Lord Halsbury. Cicero was a politi-
cal barrister. Grote was a London banker.
Mill, like Charles Lamb, was a clerk in the
East India House—a form of “slavery” in no
way consistent either with the depths of philos-
ophy or the sparkle of belles-lettres. The
Greek tragedians were proud no doubt of their
iambics, but even prouder of their general-
ship. Shakespeare was a stage manager, and
Goethe a Geheimrath. Even in the domain of
the fine arts, it may be doubted whether the
greatest masters have not been those who had
most else to do besides painting. Certain it is
that Leonardo thought far more of his skill as
a civil engineer than of his grace as a designer,
that “the painter Rubens amused himself as
Ambassador,” and that the Prince of gold-
smiths, Benvenuto Cellini, spent as much time
in fighting and traveling as in beating gold or
moulding clay.
	And to skip now to our own time, who is
the first of living English scientists ? Why,
Professor Huxley, who has also been one of
the busiest of men. Sir John Lubbock is
another man who has combined high general
culture with original scientific research; and
he is a politician with hobbies, and a financier
with ideas ! No better work has been done in
the domain of pure literature during this gen-
eration than that which Matthew Arnold did
in the intervals of his daily tasks and common
rounds as a school inspector. His namesake,
Sir Edwin Arnold, who finds time to go out
into the by-ways of foreign literature, is a
working journalist. Mr. William Morris,
though in his verse “the idle singer of an
empty day,” is in his life the busy spender of
full days indeed.
	The omission of the greater poets of the
day from the list is not so much an exception
to the rule as it looks. For the spontaneity,
which is the essence of great poetry, makes
the pressure of any other spur unnecessary.
So again Darwin, who was a man of independ-
ent means, is almost the exception that proves
the rule, for his devotion to scientific research
was altogether exceptional. And as for the
evil effects of a purely literary avocation, the
open “secret of Carlyle’s life,” is that be pined
for political employment.—Pall Mall Gazette


Miss Catharine T. Simonds, of Boston
has been a teacher for fifty consecutive years
all but two of them in the Franklin School.

	The Indian Princess, Winnemucca, who
attended Wellesley College, and has written
stories under the nom de plume of “Bright
Eyes," is now teaching an Indian school.


