SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the San Juan Stake 
held their conference at Bluff, Nov. 27th, 1888,
Prest. Jane M. Walton presiding. Choir sang,
“The Coming Day.” Prayer by Prest. Ham-
mond. Singing, "Devotional Hymn.”  A
goodly numbor of the brethren were present,
including Prest. F. A. Hammond and Coun-
selors, and the Bishops of the Mancos, Burn-
ham and Bluff Wards, Prest Moiselle M. Halls 
and Mary N. Jones, of the Stake Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A.; also Prest. Julia Butt,
Stake Prest. of the Primary.
	Prest. Walton hoped to be dictated by the
right spirit while she endeavored to address 
the conference. Considered it a great blessing
to have the privilege of holding Relief Society
conference. It made her heart feel warm to 
see the sisters; felt that the Spirit of God had
been with us during our conference so far.
Knew of a surety that every principle of the
Gospel was true; would rather die than deny the
truth.	
	Minutes of the former conference were then
read and accepted.
	Prest Abigal Stevens of the Burnham Ward,
said it gave her pleasure to report her Society.
The sisters felt well and united: they held one
testimony and two work meetings each month.
Desired to continue faithful and true to the
end.		
	Sister Neilson reported the Bluff Ward So-
ciety. Said the sisters had done as well as
could be expected, owing to their few num-
ber. "If we will listen to the teachings and 
instructions of those in authority we will be
blest; realized there was a great mission for the
sisters to perform.
	Prest. Walton then resigned her position as 
Prest of the Bluff Ward, as she had moved
from that place. Prest. F. A. Hammond
honorably released her, and them made a few 
needed explanations.	
	Coun. Moiselle Halls reported the Mancos,
Society; said the sisters felt more united than
at last conference; held testimony and work
meetings regularly; were storing up grain.
"The teachers are very diligent.” 
	Bishop Nielson felt to return Sister Walton 
a vote of thanks; knew she had done a good
work, and had been very kind to the sick.
The Society at Bluff was then organized as
follows: Kisten Nielson, President; Agnes
Allen and Eliza Redd, Counselors; Jennie Al- 
len, Secretary; Ordella Allen, Treasurer.
Prest. Hammond moved that Sister Kisten
Nielson be honorably released from  acting
First Counselor to the Stake President. Martha
Hammond was then sustained as First and
Josephine Wood as Second Counselor to Prest.
Jane Walton.
The general and local officers of the Relief


[Column 1]
Society were sustained. Coun. Martha Ham-
mond spoke a few minutes, giving good coun-
sel. 
Coun. Wm. Halls said his advice to the sis-
ters was to devote themselves to their office 
and calling. Prayed God to bless all who 
had been called to fill the different positions.
	Prest. Hammond felt to endorse all that had 
been said by the sisters. Prest Walton ad-
journed the conference. Choir sang, “Improve
the shining moments.” Prayer by Bishop Geo.
Halls.
SARAH J. ROGERSON, Stake Sec.

