 BY ELSIE ADA-FAUST.

	In all his writings Shakespeare has probably
never presented  to us two characters which
would do more to earn for him the name of a
versatile writer than those of Desdemona and
Portia. So different, and yet so peculiar to
the positions which the writer makes them
occupy.
	In Portia we find the most intelligent and
intellectual woman that Shakespeare has
created. In Desdemona a creature fitted only
to grace a position of affection and dependence.
While in Portia we find tenderness and
womanly affection to a high degree, it is tem-
pered by her pride and reason. Desdemona's
reason is not great, and her pride is as noth-
ing, for Brabantio tells us:
	"In spite of nature, of years, of country,
credit, everything," she fell in love with what
she feared to look upon. To her love came as
a whirlwind, sweeping all former duties and
principles from her path; carrying her beyond
the love and obedience to her father, and lay-
ing in waste the condemnation of customs, the
sneers of enemies, the counsel of friends, every-
thing, that she might consecrate her thoughts
and life to the moon.
	To Portia love came only as a summer breeze,
fluttering softly her heartstrings; swaying her
thoughts to the rythmatic tune of hope; rip-
pling the surface of her calmer actions; sug-
gesting a treason to her father's wishes; and

[Column 2]

brushing aside a portion of her modesty to al-
low her to say:

"I pray you, tarry; pause a day or two
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong
I lose your company; therefore forebear awhile;
I here’s something tells me, but it is not love,
I would not lose you, and you know yourself
Hate counsels not in such a quality."

	She could make her love subservient to the
trial her father imposed upon the man who
was to win her. And, no doubt, although she
asks, "Is it not hard, Nerissa, that I cannot
choose one nor refuse none?" Had the hardship
been imposed upon her of accepting either the
Prince of Arragon or the Prince of Morroco,
she would have bowed submissively to her fate
with a sort of dignified indifference, and pro-
ceeded to be happy.
	How different Desdemona, who took her
marriage into her own willful hands with so
much disregard of her father's wishes, that he
must learn from a stranger of the event to
which he was so much opposed!
	In her only act of firmness, that of loving
Othello in spite of everything, she displays
her extreme weakness; she shows how plastic
is her nature, and how she is governed by her
strongest impulse.
	The one act usurps all the strength of
which her nature is capable, and in taking all,
appears like a column without a pedestal, the
greater it grows the weaker it becomes.
	All Portia's calm speculations about her
marriage, her witty criticism on the traits of
her many suitors; her hesitating to let Bassanoi
choose; while weaknesses in themselves, be-
tray a strength of character unknown to Des-
demona. They mean in her a determination
to be firm in her duty in spite of her inclina-
tion, to put aside all her own wishes, that she
might fulfill those of her father, and to ac-
cept the inevitable with all possible grace.
	As we cannot imagine Desdemona conceiv-
ing and carrying out the plan of the court
scene that Portia did, so it would be as hard to
think of Portia submitting to a jealous man's
frenzy enough to be quietly smothered with a
pillow.
	With Desdemona's narrowness of intellect
it would have been impossible for her to devise,
as did Portia, a plan to free her husband from
the debt to Antonia, nor can we contemplate
her preparing with a mixture of humor and
seriousness to carry out that scheme, and much
less think of her as successfully and bravely
performing her work so that all difficulties are
cleared away. Desdemona, when she says,

"So that, dear lords, if I be left behind, 
A month of peace, and he go to the war,
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
And I a heavy interim shall support
By his dear absence. Let me go with him."

shows how hard it would have been to substi-
tute Portia's words of,

"O love, despatch all business, and be gone!"

How difficult for her to have tricked her hus-
band as did Portia; to have received that ring
with Bassanio's words,

	"Alas! it is a trifle;
I will not shame myself to give you this,"

as indifferently as did Portia. She very likely
would have sought in some timid way to at-
tract his attention and perhaps cried when she
found he treated a gift from her so lightly.
	And Portia, with her strength and independ-
ence begging to an unreasonable husband:
	"Kill me to-morrow, let me live to-night,"
would certainly be a strange picture. We can
paint her as being far more apt to calmly wave
him aside, while she deliberately went for
assistance, leaving him to digest a few bitter,
well chosen words.
	And as we have noted a difference in charac-


ter and of the events of their lives so far, so
we must take our leave of them in a different
way. Of Desdemona, dead through tamely
submitting to the wrath of a jealous being
whom she loved beyond everything, and to
screen whom she died with a lie on her lips.
As we leave this martyred creature, of whom
Emelia says,

“Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor,”

we leave Portia surrounded by friends who
dearly love her, and by all that money can buy.
This creature of whom Jessica says:

“Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match,
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
And Portia one, there must be something else
Pawned with the other, for the poor, rude world hath not


