		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion. These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, so as to
enable her to compile them in time for General
Conference on April 6th. The secretaries of the
several Stakes are therefore desired to send
promptly to Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South
Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
﻿plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	"FREEDOM'S CONQUESTS" is a wonderful show-
ing of facts and figures in relation to the spread
of Woman Suffrage in America, Africa, Europe,
Asia and Oceanica.. The book is by Hamilton
Wilxoc, New York City, an able worker in the

[Column 2]
suffrage cause, and one who has always spoken
without prejudice of the suffrage in Utah. The
story is briefly told, and one might say the whole
is alphabetically and mathematically arranged,
for the writer has given the number of square
miles of islands and countries, and the number of
inhabitants, and so forth. Mr. Wilcox says,
"The cold facts are as usual beyond the greatest
achievements of fancy." "The figures are all
from the latest officials returns and estimates."
We shall be pleased to make some extracts from
the pamphlet at some future date.
	THE annual meeting of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association of the Seventeenth
Ward was held in the upper hall of the ward
meeting house, Tuesday evening, January 29th,
Mrs. Julia C. Howe presiding with ease and
dignity. There were quite a number of young
ladies present and several visitors from other
wards; and the Bishop's Counselor, Alonzo Hyde,
was on the stand. After the usual opening
exercises minutes of the last annual meeting were
read and accepted, and the President announced
the reading of a manuscript paper, entitled, "The
Quarterly Review." Miss Lucy Woodruff stepped
forward and read in an easy and graceful manner,
the editorial, "Stray Thoughts," and other con
tents of the paper, "The Gifts of the Gospel,"
Sketch of Gen. Geo. Washington; also of the life of
Jared from the Book of Ether, and a Correspond-
ence between Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Miss
Ella Dallas, in which there was much food for
reflection and comment. During the intervals
between the reading of each article short speeches
were made by the sisters present—Sisters E. S.
Tayor, M. I. Horne, R. B. Pratt, and E.
B. Wells. After these exercieses were concluded,
Coun. Hyde occupied a few minutes in speaking
to the young ladies. Programme for the next
meeting was read by the Secretary, and the meet-
ing closed with singing and benediction, which
was pronounced by Sister B. W. Smith. This
Association we consider a very progressive one,
and a pattern in many respects for others to
follow. The young ladies of the ward have ac-
quitted themselves creditably on several occasions
in special meetings and entertainments, and have
shown that they were really engaged in the
cause of improvement, mentally, morally and
spiritually.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Nancy Broadbent Folsom, wife of Hyrum P.
Folsom, after suffering thirty-one days with pleuro
pneumonia, died at 1:50 p.m. January 12, 1889, in
this city, at her residence in the Nineteenth Ward,
near the Warm Springs; aged 46 years, 7 months
and 24 days. Deceased was born in Hursh, Ash-
ton, Underline, Lancashire, England, May 18, 1842. 
She was a devoted wife and mother; a friend to
the poor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and 
many will mourn her loss. She leaves a family of
six children, four sons and two daughters, the
youngest four years old. 
	On January 15th, as previously announced, the
remains left the family residence, arriving at the
Nineteenth Ward meeting house at 11 a.m., which 
was crowded on the occasion. Appropriate and 
consoling remarks were made by Elders Joseph
H. Felt, Edwin Frost, Martin Lenzi, Bishop Geo.
Romney and Robert Smith. The funeral cortege
was one block and a half long. 
	In connection with her demise we have received
the following statement, which is somewhat re-
markable: 
	"As Sister Broadbent was getting in the car-
riage to go and see the remains of Mrs. H. P.
Folsom, her daughter, she received a telegram
from Terra Haute, Indiana, that another daughter
of hers, Mrs. C. M. Daggett, expired at 7:45 p.m.
There was thus only about three hours difference 
[Column 2]
in the time of the death of the two daughters. It
is also a remarkable fact that Sister Broadbent
dreamed ten days ago that her daughters were
both dead, and that Sister Folsom died first, and
so it happened." 
	Adding to this singular coincidence, the funerals
of the two sisters were conducted at the same 
hour and day, although two thousand miles apart.
	
