WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah 	Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 			
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
				Salt	Lake City Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City,					February 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The Twenty-first Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association convened
in the Congregational Church, Washington, D. C.,
on Monday, January 21st, at 10 a.m., Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the Chair.  After some appropriate
opening remarks by the venerable Chairman, on
the anniversary and so on, she introduced the
Hon. A. G. Riddle, another veteran worker in
the cause of the enfranchisement of women.  His
speech was full of good logic and withal abound-
ing in humor, and it is to be regretted we have
not space to reproduce it in full, but we give here
some extracts, which we consider exceedingly in-
teresting, and which are out of the usual routine of
the speeches generally made on the subject.
	"You remember, you have heard, it may be, of
the Grimke sisters.  You have not?  If you go
down the street to a bookstore in this city and ask
for Mrs. Birney's Life of Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, you will get one of the best books, I de-
clare to you.  It is one of the best bits of Ameri-
can biography that has been given to the public
in these later years.  You will see the beautiful
lives of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, born on the
one side of Hugenot parentage, in South Carolina,
and on the other of ancestors who served in the
old revolutionary war—rich, wealthy slave-hold-
ers.  They belonged to the order of Friends; but
Sarah grew weary and sick of the home customs,
and escaped from her native city to Philadelphia;
and Angelina followed her.  The Friends have
always permitted women to speak, at least in their
meetings—they do not call it a church—though
they did afterwards cut off the Grimke sisters be-
cause they spoke to mixed audiences—mainly,
they said, because Angelina married Thomas
Wells.  Well, they didn't both marry him— but
they were both cut off.  Angelina was much the
younger.  They were the first to give the call for
the emancipation of the slave. They became the
first connected with the abolitionist societies; and
mark, it was proposed, curiously enough, that
women were to be enlisted in the emancipation of
the slave from physical bondage—the victim of
the auction block and the whipping post.  But no
matter about that, although it stirs my rather
elderly blood to think of it.  Women were to be
interested.  They were to pray.  Women always
were permitted to pray.
	"Ultimately it was supposed that pious women
might be enlightened by their fellow women, and
the call was made for the "parlor meetings," and
Sarah and Angelina conducted them.  Angelina
was a born orator.  She was preaching the Pente-
cost.  So they met in the parlors, and Sarah and
Angelina talked to the women, and it got talked
about outside.  Sarah was less gifted in speech,
but, if anything, more fiery in temperament.
[Column 2]
Then a Baptist clergyman proposed to give them
the session room of his church.  It was larger
than a parlor, and they held an anti-slavery meet-
ing to be addressed by the Grimke sisters.  The
minister kindly condescended to open it with
prayer.  Then he started down the aisle and
found an intermeddling abolitionist sitting back
where he could hear some little of the drippings,
and he took him by the shoulder and pushed him
out of the door. Men were not going to be permit-
ted to hear women speak.  Finally it went on
until they were invited to another session; and
then it was found that a few men had stolen in,
and these men went off and told of everything
that happened—as some men do about women—
and the matter became talked about and got into
the newspapers, and there was reprobation.
	"Finally, it went so broadly on that a church
could not be found in one neighborhood large
enough, and they held a great mixed meeting of
nearly a thousand people in a barn, and a
reverend gentleman opened it with prayer.  Then
he deliberately went out, saying that he would as
soon be caught robbing a hen-roost as remaining
to hear a woman make a speech.  And he was a
clergyman!  And the wonder is that the world is
infidel!  Great God! was he afraid that she was
going to unsex herself right there in the barn?
Ladies, if there is anything that is more abhorent
and obscene, and more obscenely abhorent to me
than any other form of speech I ever heard, it is
that woman could unsex herself.  Did you ever
hear of a man's unsexing himself? (laughter).  I
saw one of them here the other afternoon or
evening standing by a mild punch bowl—I am
glad to think that the punch was very mild—and
two young ladies were feeding him with a spoon
(continued laughter).  He was a dude.  He would
be a young lady if he could, and as he cannot, he
does all he can to show to the world that he is not
a man.
	"Unsexing!  Why God stamped sex not alone
upon the woman's figure.  Her heart, her soul,
her intellect—everything that pertains to her—is
of her sex.  Whether for good or for ill, whatever
she does, she does as a woman.  Was there ever
an instance in the world where woman has been
enlightened, has been taken along any line or
channel of improvement, that she has not become
more womanly?  Whatever she does do, suppos-
ing she does all the things that a man does, she does
not do them as a man does, but she does them as
a woman does them; and she could do them in no
other way—good, pious, Doctor Dix to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	"But I was dealing with these Grimke sisters,
and I might as well follow that subject a little
further.  Do you know that they were questioned
not only by the outside, jeering world whom
everybody wants to be jeered by, but even their
own friends began to question them; and Sarah,
in response to the criticisms, began to assert the
right of a woman to make speeches.  That is
where Woman's Right was born.  Their right to
speak was questioned; their right even to speak
to women; and boldly their right to address mixed
audiences was challenged, and Sarah replied
fearlessly.  Ah, she was a born reformer.  When
God gets ready to do a thing, or to have it done,
there is always somebody somewhere to do it;
and it is usually the most unexpected person in
the world.  It usually comes from the most unex-
pected quarter of the world.  The Messiahs have
all come that way—and they have all been rejected,
every one of them; and those that have been re-
ceived you may rest assured they do not come of
God. The genuine Messiahs have all come
stamped with suffering and martyrdom."
	Mr. Riddle's speech throughout was full of
witticisms, making a pleasing variety, and there
were many others equally logical, but not so
abounding in fun.  The suffrage ladies were
highly favored in having Senator Blair address
[Column 3]
the Convention, as it is a strong point gained
when men of national reputation come forward
on the platform of a woman's convention and
speak favorably and forcibly upon the subject of
woman's enfranchisement.
	We shall make some extracts from the speech
of Senator Blair in our next issue of the paper,
and shall publish in full the address of the Utah
Delegate, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who spoke
upon the disfranchisement of the women of Utah
and was very favorably received and several
times greeted with warm applause.
	One of the best results of the Convention has
been the probable uniting of the two great wings
of woman suffrage into one body, viz., the National
W. S. A. and the American W. S. A. both of
them striving for the same end—the enfranchise-
ment of all women, but holding apart on account
of some seemingly rather immaterial differences
in methods of procedure and other unimportant
matters, that might, one would think, be easily
harmonized.
	We heartily rejoice in this proposed consumma-
tion, believing it will be for the best and most,
permanent good of all women, and of the entire
nation, and that this union will strengthen the
cause and hasten the day when woman every-
where throughout this goodly land will attain
political, social and religious freedom guaranteed
as much to her as to her brother man.
	"The name of the united society will be the
National American W. S. A.," neither Associa-
tion being willing to give up its own name, there-
fore the decision arrived at by the Committee
was to unite the two old names.  The new con-
stitution which has been proposed provides that
the Association vote as a delegate body, instead
of as a mass meeting.  Men and women will be
admitted on equal terms, and both will be equally
eligible to office.
	The Boston Woman's Journal says:  "The
union may now be regarded as almost a settled
thing.  Its formal completion is in all probability
only a question of a few weeks."


