[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Cannon Ward was held on Friday,
August 8, at the residence of the president,
Sister Caroline Y. Cannon. The parlors
and large hall were handsomely decorated
for the occasion with beautiful flowers.
After singing, the opening prayer was
offered by Patriarch Williams, and Mrs.
Willard T. Cannon sang a solo, “Consider
the Lilies How They Grow.” Minutes
of the meeting in 1901 were read by the
secretary, Sister Martha T. Cannon, and
some statements made in regard to work
accomplished during the year. Brief re-
marks were made by the president and by
the former president, Sister Sarah J. Can-
non, also by Sisters Sarah Davey, E. B.
Wells and Phebe Y. Beatie. After the
closing exercises delicious refreshments
were served and a social hour was enjoyed.
Mrs. Cannon is a fine presiding officer and
a genial hostess.
	Conferences attended and Stakes visited
since the July number of the paper
was published are Davis, Big Horn, Sum-
mit, Fremont, Teton, Bingham, Millard
and Uintah. Weber Stake was omited
in the last list published. Those who have
visited are President Bathsheba W. Smith,
First Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
M. Isabella Horne, Counselor Sarah J.
Cannon, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Julina
L. Smith, Emma Woodruff, Elizabeth J.
Stevenson, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe
Y. Beatie, Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D.
Alder, Harriet Ann Badger and L. L.
Greene Richards. This makes forty Stakes
visited so far this year since the April con-
ference. Besides these Stakes, Counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry has visited the
branches of the Relief Society in the Cali-
fornia mission, and it was anticipated that
Sister Susa Young Gates would visit the
Relief Society in Copenhagen, and if time
would permit other branches of the society
in the Scandinavian mission. The work
is growing rapidly and there is great need
of younger women who are better able to
travel in the interests of the organizations.
The labor of ministering to the needy and
caring for the sick and unfortunate should
commend itself to all the young women in
the Church to lend a helping hand.


[Column 1]
