[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE. | Author: Unknown]

A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE.
	Sarah Newton Jones, born December 20, 1840,
at Hale Forting Bridge, England, died May 10,
1902, at Union, Salt Lake Co. She was second
vice-president in our Relief Society.
	A faithful woman has left us, a wise counselor,
an active worker and an efficient teacher for a
number of years. An embodiment of all that was
good and virtuous, she never was blest with chil-
dren of her own, but was a noble woman and a
true mother to her husband’s family.
	She embraced the Gospel with her father’s
family in her girlhood, but was the only one of
her family that came to Utah and gathered with
the Saints. She crossed the plains in Captain
Warren Snow’s company and arrived in Salt Lake
City October 4, 1864. She was married to Brother
Daniel Jones the same year.
	She was taken sick at the East Jordan Stake
conference May 4. Her sickness was of short
duration but very severe. All that loving hands
could do for her was done by her husband and his
family, who mourn her loss. She was cheerful to
the last and we know of no one more fitted for the
change that awaits the faithful.
	The funeral took place on May 12. There were a
number of speakers from different parts of the
Stake who testified of her love and integrity for
the Gospel. We mourn her absence but rejoice in
her rest, for we know she will receive the reward
of the faithful.
		M. A SMART, Pres.
		MARY ANDERSON, 1st Vice-Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FLAG NOT PROPERLY PROTECTED.
	Notwithstanding the fact that the Star
Spangled Banner is the oldest flag of all the
civilized powers, there is no national law.
to protect it from desecration. This flag of
the thirteen colonies of North America was
adopted when at war with the mother
country in 1777. The yellow and red flag
of Spain came out in 1785: the French tri-
color in 1794; The red English emblem,
with the present Union Jack, dates from
1801; the Italian flag was first unfurled in
1848; the present German in 1871; and the
Russian tricolor is quite a recent affair.
	These countries have laws to punish
desecration of their national flag: 
	Italy.—Law of June 30, 1889, Articles
15, 115: “Whoever with intention of con-
tempt should take same, destroy or insult
in a public place, or in a place open to the
public, the flag or any other emblem of the
state, will be punished by detention from
three to twenty months.”
	Austria-Hungary.—The Hungarian
criminal law 50, 1879, paragraph 37, says:
“No more than two months’ arrest and
not more than three hundred florins fine
should be inflicted upon any one....
who, with intent to insult, defiles, damages
or tears down the flag or coat of arms
publicly, used as the insignia of either
civil or military authority.”

[Column 2]
	Germany.—Articles 135, 303, inflict a
fine up to three hundred thalers or punished
with imprisonment up to two years.
	Greece.—Act 141 of the penal code pro-
vides imprisonment and prosecution by the
district attorney of the place in which the
outrage of the flag is committed, with in-
carceration for three months maximum.
	Russia.—Penalty is two to nineteen
years in jail.
	Brazil.—Article 100 of penal code, for
desecration of national colors, has a
penalty of imprisonment for not less than
six months to one year. Decree No. 3,346
of the fourteenth of October, 1887,
places the penalty of insult to the flag, one
hundred to five hundred dollars.
	Mexico.—Has a legal provision against
the desecration of or insult to the national
colors.
	China.—Punishment under one of the
laws relating to the desecration of
insignia.
	Spain.—The penal code provides a penal-
ty for insult to or desecration of the nation-
al flag.
	Portugal.—Penal code, Article 424,181,
six months to one year’s imprison-
ment.
	France.—Desecration of the national

[Column 3]
flag punishable under Sections 257, 379 and 
75 of penal code. 
	Great Britain.—Outrage to the national
colors can be dealt with under the laws
dealing with sedition or treason.
	Chili, Peru, Bulgaria, Roumania, Bel-
gium, and all other foreign governments
which have no special legal provisions can
“bring an action before either the civil or
military tribunal for any injudicious use of
its national flag under a general provision
of the code.”
	In the United States there are state
laws, New York has one, so has Illinois
and Massachusetts.
	Several flag bills have been introduced
in the United States Congress, the first by
the late S. S. Cox in the seventies;
Twelve years later another bill passed the
House, but was rejected by the Senate.
Representative W. E. Barrett, of Massa-
chusetts, presented a bill and a petition
with 100,000 signatures, of no avail.
There is an American Flag Association,
Col. Ralph Waldo Prime, of New York,
president. Solidly organized, with com-
mittees of thirteen members each, repre-
senting various patriotic societies, it is
hoped that sufficient pressure will be
brought to bear to win national legislation.
	State legislation has been sought, eleven
falling into line.—Patriotic Review.

[written under an image of female students in the center of the page]
Laura Young		Jennie Taylor		Naomi Unger	Lydia Weston	Lizzie Emery		Martha Wilkinson	Afton Rampton
Jennie Burnham	Iris Reed				Ardella Romney		Elizabeth Cannon				Stella Paul
				Addle Cannon					Josephine Spillsbury				Maud Baxter

	This group of faces of the girl students at the L. D. S. University speaks volumes of itself to those who are care-
ful observers of the fruits of the Gospel. In this picture there are possibly, and indeed probably those who will be
teachers of the youth of Zion and the future mothers of Prophets and Apostles. Something of the destiny of Zion
lies with them. There is great need of strength of character and of superior ability, and these young students look
as if they might possess both. Let us hope that some of them will be writers, poets perhaps, and that they will
distinguish themselves in art, science and religion, above all true religion. The Savior said, “Where much is given
much is required,” and great things will be expected of the women of the future, and assuredly our girls
will be endowed with those virtues that are the peculiar adornment of true and refined womanhood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
[-]econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1 & 15, 1902.


