[WomansExponent | Vol31 | 1902 | Unknown | Issue: 1 | Title: FIRST YEARS OF CHILDHOOD. | Author: Unknown]

FIRST YEARS OF CHILDHOOD.
	Those mothers are few who do not understand
that the well-being of after life depends largely
upon the care a child receives during infancy and
early childhood, Nevertheless, while many real-
ize the responsibility which this fact imposes upon
motherhood, there are doubtless many well mean-
ing mothers who do not sense how much these same
years make for the child’s intellectual growth.
Colonel Parker said, “In no years of a child’s life
does it learn so much as during the first six years.”
The parents attitude towards the child can either
give zest to this growth, or can crush and limit it.
	Infancy is the period when the child acquires
consciousness of its five senses, through which it
gains a knowledge of the things of the world.


1. The Cultivation of the Five Senses:
		(a) The child puts out its little hand
	to feel whatever comes in its way, and
	usually puts it in its little mouth.
	What senses are being cultivated in this
	manner?
		(b) Bright colors attract attention.
	Why? Tell how the senses and what
	senses may be cultivated by giving the
	child a bright colored ball, with which
	to pound the floor?
		(c) Do proper toys assist in the
	child’s development?
		(d) Will the mother, who constantly

[Column 2]
	takes from the child everything it puts
	its hands on, retard its intellectual
	growth? If the child cannot be per-
	mitted to play with all things, what
	can it reasonably demand of the parent?

2. Learning to Talk: As soon as the child
	begins to talk, the mother cau give
	much aid.
		(a) She can assist it in acquiring
	words and forming sentences. How?
		(b) She can aid it in the pronunci-
	ation of words. How?
		(c) She can correct improper usage.
	How?
		(d) By reading good books the child
	is assisted in the art of expression.
	How and why?

3. Asking Questions: Every normal child
	asks questions. This impulse is heav-
	en born. It is one way in which the
	child gets knowledge.
		(a) What will be the attitude of the
	wise mother in respect to the child who
	asks questions?
		(b) The mother who ignores the
	child’s question, or scolds because the
	child asks so many questions will re-
	tard the child’s intellectual growth.
	Why?
		(c) What do you think of telling a
	child that it should be seen and not
	heard?

4. The Child’s Love for Stories: The great
	desire of the child for stories is another
	wise provision of nature, meant to as-
	sist in its mental culture.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN O[-]R NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Has returned to Salt Lake City, and
located permanently at 713 Second
St., where she will be pleased to
meet her old friends and patrons, and
will resume the practice of her pro-
fession. The Doctor will also teach
Classes in Obstetrics and Nursing.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.


