May 6—Music—Indian music of the early days of the Indians in this country; Negro Spirituals and American Composers. May 7—Pan American sessions devoted to the interests of councils representing Pan American countries. Presiding Officers, Lady Aberdeen and Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt (Mrs. Catt will speak on her South American visit). Address of Welcome, Dr. L. S. Rowe, Director Pan American Building; Address of Welcome in Spanish, Mrs. Henry Redmond of Corpus Christi, President of the Texas Federation of Women's Clubs. May 8—Ambassadors Evening, when the Ambassadors will be received 'by the constituents from their countries. The Secretary of State has assured Mrs. Moore that letters will be sent to the Ambassadors of all countries in which there are National Councils asking them to give all possible assistance to National Council delegates. ) The entire program is not yet available. It will include the names of a number of the most promiment men and women in the world. Practically all of the Washington branches of national organizations in the Council will have "Open House" and various affairs for the representatives of their organizations and other guests. There will also be many luncheons, receptions, teas, and dinners arranged by Washington hostesses for the delegates to the conference. The Utah life patrons, which have been either enlisted or named by the affiliated societies of Utah are: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Martha Tingey, Miss Clarissa A. Beesley, Mrs. W. W. Riter, all of Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Mary L. Hendrickson, of Logan. The Relief Society and the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, the two national societies with headquarters in Salt Lake City, have named representatives to attend. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams will attend as president of the Relief Society and as state quinquennial chairman. At the invitation of Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council, Mrs. Williams will attend a breakfast on May 5, given in honor of the International officers and the state chairmen. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general secretary of the Relief Society, will be one of the official National Council delegates representing the women of the United States. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, will represent the Relief Society and the state Service Star Legion, of which she is president. President Martha H. Tingey of the Y. L. M. I. A. Will represent her society. Mrs. Ruth May Fox, counselor to Mrs. Tingey in the Y. L. M. I. A., will attend as an officer of the NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 229 National Council of Women of the United States, of which she is auditor. Other Utah women who are expecting to be in attendance are: Mrs. W. W. Riter, a member of the finance committee of the National Council; Miss Florence Kimball and Mrs. M. K. Forrester of the League of Women Voters; Mrs. Eliza F. McFarland, superintendent of the Bee Hive Home, a home for girls conducted by the Y. L. M. I. A.; Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, and daughter. Mrs. John Y. Rich; Mrs. L. W. Lund, Mrs. M. I. Cowley, Miss Bae Williams and Miss Marion Cartwright. It is expected that other Utah women will be in attendance. In the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.