Teachers' Topic for July Recreation 1. Play is nature's method of effecting growth and development.. 2. Recreation is conducive to good health. A. For children. B. For adults. C. Parents and children should play together. 3. Play is the spirit of wanting to do. 4, The swing, the sliding board and sand pile in the back yard or porch are excellent for strengthening the child's body and making him happy. 5. Mothers are missing supreme joy by not taking their little children on a day's picnic to some nearby stream or grove of trees or even in their own shady back lawn. 6. Latter-day Saints have always felt it a duty to provide suitable recreation for both old and young. Baby's Skies By Abbie R. Madsen Baby's skies are mother's eyes; Don't you, know 'tis true, Don't much matter What their color, Brown or azure blue, Just so long they sparkle, twinkle With a love divine, You will see that adoration From baby's eyes will shine. Baby's skies are mother's eyes; Don't you know 'tis true? And it matters, If there passes Just a cloud or two, Very soon a wee lip quivers Then you see a tear, Now you've blotted out a sunbeam From one you hold most dear. YOUR GARDEN BULBS PLANTS SEED Now is the time to plant Dahlias, Cannas, Gladiolus and all annual Bedding Plants and Seeds. The most complete stock in the Mountain States awaits your selection. Get Free Catalog PORTER-WALTON CO. 42 W. 1st So. Salt Lake City  A Half Hundred Courses National Summer school Each an Event NCLUDED in this rare educational opportunity are courses by such celebrities as McCollum on nutrition, Miss Wilkerson of New York on costume design and home furnishing and Miss Binzel of Columbia on child psychology and habit formation. Teachers, mothers, nurses, doctors and others will find a rich selection of courses in the Second National Summer School. Graduate or undergraduate courses for term of 6 weeks or full quarter. Your choice of 28 famous educators. Utah Agricultural College Logan, Utah 1st Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: quarter. July 27 to Aug. 29. Tuition fee: $25 for 1st term: $35 for quarter. Write for Catalog. ARE YOU HAVING The Relief Society Magazine Bound They are a valuable asset to any library. We can supply you with index for 1921-1922-1923-1924 at 15c each. Each association should have their volumes bound for reference. 
 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ?Is Kitchen Work Tiresome? Eye-strain is responsible for a very large share of the blame for woman's weariness. Working in poorly lighted kitchens makes every task harder by far than it need be. Eye-strain too often leads to nervous irritation that has serious consequences. The remedy is the DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT. It drives away the shadows and brings good cheer to the kitchen. During April you may try this wonder light at our expense in your kitchen for 15 days?then if you do not want it tell us and we will remove it. $6.50 if you keep it?75c a month. Phone our nearest office for the man to call with the Great White Light. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair...$1.50 Box of Three Pairs$4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine XII  NOW ON THE MARKET A full pound for only 25c. Kitchen King Cocoa has real quality. TRY IT?COMPARE IT If you are not satisfied the grocer will refund the full purchase price. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine