The Relief Society Magazine - October 1968, Vol. 55, No. 10

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1968

Hold Autumn Marilyn McMeen Miller There is a pause in October... A sigh as though earth breathes One golden breath of forever Into the gathering sky. The oak turns And there is a magnificent heather Turned sun... And all becomes one Late testimony Of beauty Before death takes what seems like Its one solemn duty... The toll of winter. Above all the harvested grains And the flash of red in the hills That touch heaven, There is that one last sigh That is seven Times seven springs driven. The magnificent all-consuming pulse For life hard-put-out. The flame Before the smoke Has risen.

The Cover: Brown and Gold in Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I cannot express fully the joy and appreciation I received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I thank Sister McKay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. I read this article often, and it cheers me up when I am blue, and makes me feel that I can do better.

Marian del Valle Abbeville, Louisiana

I thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), I find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature I have ever read.

Sally Cheney Santa Rosa, California

I cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content. I watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although I regret parting from my sisters here, I know that I will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors.

R. May M. Foote Billingham, Teeside, England

This is my second year for receiving regularly The Relief Society Magazine. Like so many wives in this day and age, I must work outside the home, and like all of these women who receive the Magazine, and who cannot attend the regular meetings, I feel closer to all the sisters everywhere. After reading the Magazines I pass them on to a very good Methodist friend of mine. She, in turn, uses the copies in her Sunday School, whenever possible, as well as in her church meetings. These lessons are received with pleasure, for there is much to be gained in spite of the difference in religious beliefs.

Ruth E. Sanford San Francisco, California

I am humbly grateful to find my poem "The Maker of Hills" in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. To have it illustrated in such a beautiful manner, with a picture of hills, gives me much pleasure. I am happy to be featured on the page with Helen Mrovka, where her fine article "The Song of the Hills" appears.

Annie C. Esplin Orderville, Utah

How thrilled and proud I was to read in the July 1968 issue of the Magazine (page 558) that one of my mother's poems ("Rain Song," January 1962) is going to be reviewed in the cultural refinement lessons. She is the same Bernice Burton Holmes who won second place in the Relief Society Poetry Contest in 1962. Her daughter-in-law Carol Crane Holmes feels especially honored because, as the cultural refinement class leader in the Woodland, California Ward, she will be privileged to be teaching this lesson when it comes.

Trilby Priest Holmes Brea, California

I can hardly believe it! When I read "Aunt Elly's Mirror," (July 1968, by Mary Alice Moore), it was like a reflection on my own life. I get so lonely, and sometimes the phone won't ring for days. I came from the city, and we now live on a ranch with our three busy children. We recently remodeled the old family home with a large picture window, and I have been willed an old picture frame. I have now decided to rejuvenate the frame and make a mirror out of it for our "new home." Thank goodness for The Relief Society Magazine to keep me busy.

Renie Moore Hibbert Otto, Wyoming

722

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.