[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Fruits of a Living Faith | Author: Clifford E. Young]
ERY little has been written about the devotion and faith of the early women of the Church. 'They suffered with their husbands and children. 'They were driven from their homes. Many times persecution was greater than it would seem they could bear, and yet they never faltered. President Clark has paid FRUITS OF A LIVING FAITH a beautiful tribute to those of whom little has been written or of whom little is known in the founding of the Church and its establishment out here in the West. His talk given at the October 1947 Church Conference, published under the title, To Them of the Last Wagon, is a fitting tribute to the forgotten man or woman who was always willing, if necessary, to give his all for the benefit of the Church. It is not my purpose in this article to attempt to write what has already been written so impressively but I do want to call attention to two rematkable women who _ represent thousands of such whose lives were devoted to the Church. I refer to Brother Widtsoe's mother. Here was a woman who was born and reared in Norway under a_ beautiful culture, a woman refined in every way, very spiritual, deeply rooted in the traditions of her people; and yet when the gospel found her and the witness came to her soul, she was. Willing to give up everything. She had previously lost her husband; so that she, with her two boys, were left alone to fight life's battles as best they could, and under these conditions the gospel message came to her, and she accepted it. Her sister was likewise impressed, and she, too, joined the Church. 'These two heroic women decided to come to Zion; and packing what belongings they could, they, with the two young boys, neither of them yet in his teens, came to America and on to the West to settle in Cache Valley. The life of Sister Widtsoe reads almost like a fairy tale. Independent in her thinking and always devoted to the Church, she gave her two 503 boys a spiritual background that was to be reflected in their later lives, one of them, Osborn J. To be taken in his young manhood, but not-until he had left a lasting impression for the true and beautiful upen the students who were blessed to come under his charge in the old L. DS. University. The other one, Dr. John A. Widtsoe, was destined to become one of the great leaders of the Church, and one of its great thinkers and interpreters of the truth. In the founding of Nauvoo by the Latter-day Saints under the leadership of the Prophet Joseph, there were drawn to the Church some well-to-do families from the vicinity of Westchester, Pennsylvania—Pennsylvania Dutch these converts were called. Among these was the family of Bishop Edward Hunter, who for many years was the Presiding Bishop of the Church. Bishop Hunter sold his farm for a substantial sum, and with his wife and family, came to Nauvoo. On meeting the Prophet, Brother Hunter donated all the money he had to him for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God. Another of these families was the Levi Riter family. His wife, Rebecca, was a Quaker. Her mother, Eliza Dilworth, was deeply religious; and Rebecca and her sisters grew up in the traditions of the Quaker faith—refined, cultured, and devoted to God as they understood bis will. One day Mormon missionaries came to their home. 'They did not at first accept the message of the missionaries, but, after reading The Book of Mormon and _ after several weeks of careful thought and study, they were convinced that the 504 missionaries had given them the truth. When the mother of Re becca Riter was to tell her husband, Caleb Dilworth, of the new-found truth, he issued an ultimatum that they could either denounce it or get out. It was a great decision for them to make, but the mother finally said that if that's the way it had to be, they would leave; and they packed their belongings and, leaving a good home, emigrated to Nauvoo.

FTER the martyrdom of the Prophet, this Quaker family, with the rest of the saints, loaded their belongings into wagons and set out for the West. Had two boys. Levi Riter, the husband of Rebecca, was a strong character and a man of faith, but he could not quite see the wisdom of leaving their home in Pennsylvania and going West, they knew not where. So one day on the plains of Iowa before they reached Winter Quarters, he suggested to his wife, Rebecca, that they go back to their old farm.. He felt that it was a mistake to subject the two boys to the hardships which now faced them. No argument, however, could change the mother. A call from the leader had been a call from God, and he had said they were going to the Rocky Mountains; and to the mountains they were going. Finally, after this question had been argued back and forth, the mother suggested a compromise. In_ her quaint Quaker way she said to her husband, "Thee can go back if thee wants to, and when II get out to the West and have established a home, thee can come on." When the matter was discussed with the boys The Riters - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 as to which they would rather do, go back to Pennsylvania to the old farm with their father or go on with their mother to the West, they chose the old covered wagon. Here may I add that culture and refining influences do not stem from material things, excellent libraries, musical instruments, or the modern gadgets of today. 'They are found in the inner feelings of the heart, the expressions of the soul, just as they were found in that old covered wagon in which lived a great mother whose influence on her children transcended all the so-called cultures and refinements of our modern age. Later on it was learned that a little child was expected, and the following June in a wagon on the banks of the Missouri River, a baby girl was born to this couple, and three days later the mother informed her husband that she was ready to go on, and on they came. Never again did the father suggest going back. At Haun's Mill the brethren, fearing that the mob was coming and learning that it was the brethren whom they were after and not the women, fled into the woods, and the women were left to defend themselves as best they could. One of the heroines of that tragic event was Jane Bicknell Young, wife of Joseph Young, who stood in the door of her little cabin with her little three-year-old boy tucked under her apron to shield him and her year-old baby clasped tightly in her arms and defied the mob to enter her cabin. It is this type of faith, this devotion, this loyalty that have made our Church what it is today. 'These FRUITS OF A LIVING FAITH women were faithful supporters of the men in their ministry, and they suffered persecutions and hardships equally with their husbands. Women were driven out of their homes with their children, experiencing immeasurable anguish of soul and body; and someday, perhaps, we shall erect a monument to the thousands of women whose names are not heard of, whose faith and devotion made possible the establishing of the Church. I close this rather incomplete and unsatisfactory narrative by paraphrasing a few words written by the late Franklin K. Lane as a tribute to the pioneers of the West. Mr. Lane was a native of California, a 505 graduate of Stanford University. Early in his administration President Woodrow Wilson appointed Mr. Lane to his cabinet as Secretary of the Interior, where he served throughout President Wilson's administration: They trekked through the yielding, treacherous snows; fording swift running rivers; creeping painfully through rocky gorges; clambering up mountain sides; daring the limitless land without horizon; grinding their teeth upon the bitter dust of the desert; fainting beneath the heat of the raw and ruthless sun, starved, thirsted, fought; were cast down, but never broken. They never turned back.
