[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "But If Ye Will Nourish the Word, Yea , Nourish the Tree as It BeginnetLhe o nteo G Or. o w J"a cobs]

They were also emaciated from lack of food and water and from other afflictions, but were patient in their sufferings. Ammon and Lamoni_ returned from Middoni to the land of Ishmael, where King Lamoni helped Ammon to spread the gospel. They RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 built synagogues and encouraged the people to meet together often to worship God. Lamoni told them they were a free people, free from the oppressions of his father, the king, and free to worship the Lord. The people were zealous in keeping the commandments. Questions on the Lesson 1. Why was Ammon willing to sacrifice so much to build the kingdom of God among the Lamanites? 2. What are some faith-promoting incidents in the life of Ammon? 3. How did the converted Lamanites reveal their faith? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 26—"But If Ye Will Nourish the Word, Yea, Nourish the Tree as It Beginneth to Grow, by Your Faith With Great Diligence, and With Patience, Looking Forward to the Fruit Thereof, It Shall Take Root; and Behold It Shall Be a Tree Springing Up Unto Everlasting Life" (Alma 32:41). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 2, 1954 Objective: gain life everlasting. HAT a beautiful parable is here given us — beautiful in language and glorious in context! Truly there is no more important message to be presented to mankind. Alma describes the requirements for growth of the good seed into the tree and shows how the "word" also must be nourished if the rich harvest is to be garnered and enjoyed. It is an apt comparison, as at every point it corresponds to the growing To point out that faith and great diligence are required in order to process of the "word of God" in one's life. Alma urges us to make the expetiment by planting the seed in our hearts, to see if it will swell and grow within us. If it does begin to swell and sprout or, in other words, if it begins to enlarge the soul and enlighten the understanding, then we can be sure that that seed is good, for those are the signs. When the seed is proved to be good, as it grows LESSON DEPARTMENT into a tree it must be nourished with great care, that it may take root and be strong enough to put forth branches and bear fruit. 'l'aking root is very necessary, for unless a tree is firmly anchored, the winds and the storms may uproot it. When the fruit has finally ripened, it will be all that one could desire. Alma promises that the fruit is most precious, and is sweet above all that is sweet, and one may feast upon it until he is filled and shall never more hunger nor thirst. Likewise, unless the word of God is firmly anchored in one's life, the adversities which beset mankind and the buffetings of Satan may shake it from its moorings. The tree, and likewise the "word"? Must not be neglected for any length of time, for no matter how promising a start is made, it must have continual nourishment and care or it will wither and die. It must be nourished 553 by "faith with great diligence, and with patience." Some people receive the word of God, but do not long continue its care or nourish it to maturity. 'They may be turned aside by criticism or prejudice or by worldly pursuits until their interest wanes. 'There are those who show initial interest in the "word" and. Then, as time passes, they do not put forth much effort in study and practicing the "word" to giv e it a fair trial. Finally they say, "It does not impress us. We are no longer interested." 'The best things do not come to fruition without effort and care. We must nourish the word of God tenderly and continually, with faith, with study, with prayer, and with good works, as long as we shall live. Surely life eternal is worth working for! Life everlasting is the prize— the highest reward that can come to man.