[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Washington | Author: Morris]
[Washington State Wonder — Soap Lake Marijane Morris]
Institution  in  Washington,  D.  C, 
and  my  desire  to  create  the  inaug- 
ural gowns,  displayed  there  on  life- 
size  models,  was  greatly  stimulated. 
I  had  with  me  a  booklet  which  con- 
tains photographs  of  these  women, 
and,  as  I  looked  at  the  real  dresses 
I  noted  every  detail  and  wrote  it 
down  by  the  respective  photographs. 
If  anything  was  left  out  of  the  book- 
let I  knew  I  would  have  it  first- 
hand right  there  on  the  margin." 
Being  an  expert  seamstress  and 
interested  in  designing  clothes,  Mrs. 
Whiting  had  confidence  in  her  abil- 
ity to  duplicate  the  beautiful  in- 
auguration gowns.  First  of  all,  she 
knew  she  would  need  the  models 
to  dress.  She  confided  her  desires 
to  her  aunt  and  neighbor.  Miss  Zina 
Johnson  who  is  also  a  hobbyist,  be- 
ing skilled  in  the  art  of  ceramics. 
Miss  Johnson  immediately  offered 
to  make  all  of  the  dolls  for  Mrs. 
Whiting  to  dress. 
"I  was  happy  to  do  it,"  said  Miss 
Johnson.  "We  stimulated  each  oth- 
er, and,  through  our  combined  ef- 
forts, we  were  able  to  feel  the  thrill 
and  satisfaction  that  come  from 
doing  truly  creative  work." 
The  little  models  made  by  Miss 
Johnson  are  eight  inches  high.  She 
Page  506 
made  one  basic  mold,  then  added 
more  clay  to  the  green-ware  with 
which  she  could  shape  the  arms  and 
hair.  In  this  way  she  could  shape 
the  arms  differently  and  vary  the 
hair  styles,  all  of  which  she  has  done 
with  amazing  skill.  After  finishing 
the  figures  in  this  way,  she  baked 
them  just  once  in  her  own  kiln. 
There  are  thirty-five  of  these  bisque 
mannequins,  each  representing  a 
White  House  hostess.  Most  of 
them  represent  wives  of  the  Presi- 
dents, but  some  are  sisters,  daugh- 
ters, daughters-in-law,  and  even 
nieces,  who  acted  as  hostesses  for 
the  Presidents  of  the  United  States. 
"I  could  almost  feel  their  person- 
alities as  I  molded  their  arms  and 
styled  their  separate  coiffures,"  said 
Miss  Johnson.  "You  see,  I  could 
add  or  detract  with  the  clay,  and  I 
tried  to  catch  the  spirit  and  physical 
characteristics  of  each  First  Lady." 
Both  Mrs.  Whiting  and  Miss 
Johnson  are  students  of  art.  Miss 
Johnson  taught  English  and  art  in 
high  school  for  several  years.  Both 
of  these  women  have  studied  the 
lives  of  the  First  Ladies  and  have 
greatly  enriched  their  own  lives  by 
so  doing. 
"These  historic  women  seem  like 
personal  friends  to  me.  Each  one 
has  her  own  individual  appeal," 
said  Mrs.  Whiting.  "Some  of  the 
dresses  were  much  harder  to  make 
than  others.  For  instance,  it  took 
me  four  hours  just  to  sew  the  seed

COSTUMED  MODELS  OF  THE  FIRST  LADIES 
507 
THREE  STAGES  IN  MAKING  THE  MODELS  OF  THE  FIRST  LADIES 
Left  to  right:   Mannequin  as  it  comes  from  the  mold;  finished  mannequin  ready 
to  be  dressed,  hair  and  arms  added;  dressed  figure. 
pearls  clown  the  front  of  the  dress 
worn  by  Mrs.  William  McKinley, 
but  Mrs.  Warren  G.  Harding's 
dress  was  the  most  difficult,"  she 
added,  "because  I  couldn't  use  a 
basic  pattern.  I  just  had  to  drape 
and  cut.  The  dress  worn  bv  Mrs. 
Harriet  Lane  Johnston,  niece  of 
James  Buchanan,  was  the  most  elab- 
orate one  of  all." 
Mrs.  Whiting  is  now  beginning 
the  work  on  the  dress  Mrs.  Truman 
wore  at  the  1949  inauguration  fes- 
tivities. The  description  of  this 
dress  was  sent  to  her  by  Mrs.  Tru- 
man's secretary. 
These  fashions  in  miniature  ac- 
curately reflect  the  period  in  which 
they  were  worn.  ^Iartha  Washing- 
ton, in  her  soft  pink  colonial  gown 
and  bonnet,  makes  quite  a  contrast 
to  the  American  Beauty  short  formal 
worn  by  Mrs.  Calvin  Coolidge. 
Then  there  is  the  shapeless  narrow 
dress  worn  by  Mrs.  John  Q.  Adams, 
in  contrast  to  the  slender  bodice  and 
full  o\'er-skirt  of  yellow  satin  worn 
by  Dolly  Madison,  wife  of  James 
Madison. 
Mrs.  Whiting  is  the  wife  of  a 
busy  husband  and  has  four  children 
to  care  for.  She  is  also  active  in 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  in  the  civic  af- 
fairs of  her  community.  Her  hus- 
band designed  the  clever  carrying 
cases  for  the  dolls.  These  cases  are 
indispensable  in  caring  for  so  many 
fragile  pieces  of  art.  Mrs.  Whiting 
can  safely  take  the  dolls  with  her 
when  she  is  in\ited  to  share  with 
others  the  products  of  her  work  and 
study.  She  has  shown  these  dolls 
in  their  beautiful  gowns  to  more 
than  sixty  gatherings,  and  each  time 
she  tells  about  the  life  of  each  First 
Lady  to  her  enthusiastic  audiences. 
She  received  an  all  expense  paid  trip 
to  Detroit,  Michigan,  as  a  guest  of 
a  large  department  store  there.  She

508 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1954 
displayed  the  dolls  in  that  store  in 
the  week  before  the  inauguration  of 
President  Eisenhower. 
''The  best  things  about  a  hobby/' 
concluded  Mrs.  Whiting,  ''are  the 
people  you  meet  and  the  interesting 
letters  you  receixe." 
She  has  receixed  letters  from  doll 
collectors  wanting  to  buy  the  dolls, 
and  many  congratulatory  notes. 
Among  her  most  prized  ones  are  the 
warm  friendly  notes  she  has  received 
from  Eleanor  Roosevelt  and  Mamie 
Eisenhower. 
The  consummation  of  this  proj- 
ect in  the  home  of  Mrs.  Whiting 
has  had  an  educational  effect  on  all 
of  her  family,  and  one  can  be  sure 
that  certain  phases  of  the  history 
of  this  great  country  will  have  a 
greater  meaning  for  them  now  and 
in  the  future. 
Ralph  Snelson,  Springville,  Utah 
COSTUMES  OF  FIRSl^  LADIES  OF  OUR  LAND 
At  left,  standing,  Marie  Whiting,  who  made  tlie  costumes;  at  right,  Zina  Johnson, 
who  made  the  models. 
First  Ladies,  in  the  foreground,  left  to  right:  Mrs.  James  A.  Garfield,  in  purple 
satin  gown,  with  ruffled  train;  Mrs.  Abraham  Lincoln,  in  purple  velvet,  with  gored  skirt 
and  puffed  slee\es;  Mrs.  Benjamin  Harrison,  wearing  plum-colored  brocade,  with  train; 
Mrs.  John  Ouincy  Adams,  in  white  satin,  with  shirred  trim  around  a  narrow  skirt;  Mrs. 
George  W'ashington  (center,  seated)  in  hand-painted,  apricot-colored  gown.  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington wears  a  bonnet  and  carries  a  bag  which  she  made;  Mary  Harrison  McKee,  daugh- 
ter of  Benjamin  Harrison,  in  tan  dress,  with  redingote  effect;  Mrs.  Cahin  Coolidge,  in 
red  \'el\et  gown,  sleeveless,  w ith  flounces;  Angelica  Van  Buren,  daughter-in-law  of  Mar- 
tin Van  Buren,  in  deep  blue  velvet,  with  train  and  fichu;  Mrs.  William  McKinley, 
wearing  white  satin,  with  train  and  beaded  front  panel. 
Standing  in  second  half  circle,  left  to  right:  Mis.  Rutherford  B.  Hayes,  in  white