[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: New | Author: Tournear]
[New Light Lucile Tournear]

I had been only a few weeks since then, and Jane was proud of what Steve had accomplished. 'Tonight they were celebrating; not the way that Steve had planned, but at home with the children, and all dressed up. 'That is why Jane was wearing her new, blue silk print; it was Steve's favorite. "Hi, hon, how about a date for — dinner tonight, at the Sunset Inn, or maybe we should go dancing?" Steve's voice had been bubbling over with happiness when he called her that afternoon from the office. "Steve, are you all right?" There was surprise in Jane's tone. She remembered how they had wrestled with their account book last might for hours, trying to figure how to make ends meet until payday. "Really Janie, I'm serious. I want to celebrate. I just got my first big case for the firm, all on my own. A big shot from the ridge walked in and asked for Steve Martin, and that's I, darling. I've been pulling hard to bring that oil case our way." Jane had loved the sound of his 511 voice; the sureness of it, after all his doubts, but they must wait awhile to celebrate. "Listen, Steve, dear, you remember last night, well, the budget doesn't balance any better today. We'll just have to wait awhile." "Guess you are right, Janie," he said, but his voice had gone flat. Jane almost hated herself for letting the old Dependable Jane crop up. It would almost be worth spending their last dollar, but she said, "You see, there would have to be a girl to stay with the children, too, and, Steve, I'd love fixing something special and celebrating here." She knew her own voice sounded deflated. "O. K. Pll see you at five-thirty." Steve had tried to keep his voice bnght. Jane was glad that Steve seemed to feel really gay at dinner, and she was sure that they both ate more than they would had they gone to the Sunset. Sitting in the living room after dinner, Steve said, "It's a good thing I have you, Janie, to keep me from going overboard. You're the one who has taken the raps all along. With me first in the army, then im school, you had most of the responsibility of the children, too." Steve drew her close as he spoke. "You are so dependable," he finished. Jane straightened suddenly, and sat silently for a moment, her lips set in too tight a line for Janie's. "Please don't say that word here, Steve," she said. "Down at Brentville, I was always Dependable Jane, and that meant I was the town lacky; to head the committees on fund dinners, to sub for a teacher, to hurry down to the Red Cross one center, or fill in at a party on a moment's notice." Jane saw the surprise in Steve's eves at her outburst, and he said, "To me you are just my Janie, but by those who called you Dependable Jane it was meant as a big compliment. Everyone in Brentville loves you, Janie, just as they will here when folks get to know you." Steve tweaked her ear and tried a grin at her, but her face was still solemn. "Why did Mother and Dad have to name me for Aunt Martha Jane, anyway? Everyone, including Aunt Jane, expects me to be like her, always good and dependable; at least up here she can't always be quoting her aphorisms at me. 'A stitch in time saves nine,' if a button is off. 'Wilful waste brings woeful want.' 'Birds of a feather,' and "Water always seeks its level, and all the others." "Aunt Martha Jane was reared on pioneer rations, Janie, but, in spite of it all, she is an old dear." "I'm sorry, Steve. I've spoiled the evening, and this was supposed to be a celebration," Jane said sincerely. We must get acquainted with our neighbors. You'll soon have lots of friends here, and with our Church activities, I'm sure we will like it fine," Steve said. HIS reminded Jane that the Relief Society president had asked her to teach the literature lessons for the coming year, and she had made all kinds of excuses. "I have the children, and they take their nap in the afternoon," she had said. "We have a nursery, and an excellent girl to care for the children; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 and there are so many fine women, I'm sure you'd enjoy mingling with them," the president had persuaded. Jane had finally refused, but not without a twinge of conscience. 'To herself she had reasoned, surely one deserves a rest after doing all I have done for so long. Yet she knew that Steve would be hurt if he knew, so she had decided not to tell him. "Oh, I forgot to tell you," Steve said. ""Ihey have asked me to work with the Scouts this fall; so I will be right back in the old groove." Tis eyes shone bright with pleasure. Jane thought of all the time that Steve used to spend with the Scouts down at Brentville, and how he would be now, with a troop of boys walking over her rugs, and twisting about on the new chairs and livingroom set. She saw that Steve was looking at her, waiting for her comment. "Do you think you will like that job here? It takes so much of your - time, and with your work, you've just got to make good," she said uneasily. "Tm still a boy at heart, Janie, and the boys have to have someone to look after them. You know our Michael is going to be a Scout one of these days," Steve spoke thoughtfully. Jane felt a bit uncomfortable, and changed the subject. "One of the neighbors called this afternoon; the lady that lives in the red brick house a few doors down," she told him. "What is she like? You'll like her I hope." "Her name is Mary Carson, and she's. A nice person; nice—and dependable." 'Then, noting Steve's sly look, she added, "Like me." She wrinkled her nose at him, and DEPENDABLE JANE smiled. "She brought a plate of cookies for the children. She has two children, a boy and a girl." "I like her already," Steve said, looking pleased. '"'And isn't there one cookie left for me?" Jane brought the remaining cookies, and they munched them together as they talked. She was glad that Steve's enthusiasm returned as they spoke of his work. A few evenings later, Steve came from work, and found Jane bubbling over with excitement. "What do you know, Steve?" she exclaimed starry-eyed. "Mrs. Darcy has asked me to be a guest at her club next Tuesday. Her husband owns the biggest department store in town; and Mrs. Cline, the banker's wife, will be there, and Mrs. Lane, she operates a travel bureau. I've just been dying to see inside the Darcy house," she ran on breathlessly. "Hum my little Janie, with all the elite of the town," Steve said, but with less enthusiasm than Jane had wished. "I hoped if I met the right people it might bring business your way,' she confessed earnestly. "These women are the social arbiters of Avondale." "We don't want to try too hard for business,' Steve answered, and Jane felt that there was a note of reproof in his voice, as well as a serious, puzzled look on his face. Jane's face flushed with disappointment. She decided to try another topic, one she knew Steve would be interested in. "David Graham has just returned from his mission to England, he is to be the speaker in Church next Sunday," she told him. England had been Steve's mission field, too. 513 N Church on Sunday as Jane watched Steve's shining eyes as they listened to the missionary, she thought, Steve will never change; his Church will always be first, and a deep love filled her. "They were the most wonderful years I ever spent, those two and a half I spent in the mission field," the elder was saying. They all say that. Steve said those very same words, Jane said to herself. "It is serving others that brings happiness, and serving God brings the greatest happiness of all," David Graham went on, then he said, "serving in the Church is not a labor but a privilege." Jane was quiet and thoughtful as they drove home. "Serving in the Church is not a labor, but a privilege." Impatiently she tried to push the words out of her mind, but they kept coming back. Why should my conscience keep nagging at me? I've worked in the Church all of my life. Steve seemed to be lost in his own thoughts, too. When he spoke his voice was vibrant with emotion. "Elder Graham says that the whole Lester family joined the Church soon after I came home, and they told him I was the one who converted them. There are several others who have joined that I contacted while there. Oh, Janie, it makes me feel wonderful to think I have helped a few to see the light." A full moon was peeking over the tall hills to the east of them, and cottony clouds floated about in the sky. There was the spicy tang of autumn coming to them from the foothills, where the oaks and maples 514 were beginning to show bright coloring. Jane looked over at Steve; the moon shone bright on the tip of his nose. She moved close and laid her hand on his arm. A smile curved his lips, and there was a look of contentment and peace on his face. N Tuesday afternoon, Jane saw Mary Carson drive by on her way to Relief Society meeting. Her two small children were tucked in the seat beside her. Jane knew Mary would be giving the lesson today, for she had told her that she taught the theology lessons. Jane recalled vividly one of the lessons she had heard last spring, down at Brentville. It was, "Lehi, Man of Visions." © It had given her such a wonderful feeling; especially the vision of the tree, which represented the love of God; and the rod of iron that led to the tree. This rod was the word of God. Jane had felt, then, that she would always cling fast to the iron rod and follow the narrow path, so she would not get lost in the mists along the way. Jane looked at the clock. She must hurry. In a few minutes a girl would be coming to take care of the children while she went to Mrs. Darcy's club. Now she tried to push the thought of the vision out of her mind. All forenoon she had been so anxious to meet Mrs. Darcy's friends and see her home, but now a scared feeling settled in the pit of her stomach. She arrived a few minutes early. She thought she had never seen anything so lovely as Mrs. Darcy's house. It was ultra modern, the long, windowed walls, the unique planter boxes, the rare pictures and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 lovely draperies, and the fine furniture. It was all so convenient and beautiful. She wanted to stand and admire everything. Then a sick feeling went through her as she noted there were ash trays on the tables in the living room. She knew that in hers and Steve's home, no one could expect to use an ash tray. Mrs. Darcy was friendly, but asked to be excused to finish preparing the refreshments. She said the lady that was to come to help her had been detained on account of an accident to one of her children. "Let me help; I'd be glad to," Jane offered quickly, then thought, there I go with my Dependable Jane assistance, at my first party in Avondale. "Oh, I would appreciate it so much. There are just a few things to finish," Mrs. Darcy said, and Jane followed her into the kitchen. Jane helped set out the food on pretty glass trays. 'There were dainty canapes, and crisp salads, then tiny frosted cakes, and a drink in sparkling crystal goblets. Jane listened to the women chatting as they ate their food, and the certainty came to her that she could not be one of them. She was in a hurry to get home, but she would have to stay it out. She thought of Steve's look when she had told him she was invited here. She thought of Mary Carson and her Relief Society lesson. She thought, too, of Aunt Martha Jane. Aunt Martha Jane thought social clubs were an utter waste of time, at best. As she reached home, she saw that Steve's car was in the driveway. Panic filled her. Had something happened to one of the children? It was not time for Steve to be DEPENDABLE JANE home. She wondered if the girl had called him from his office. She hurried up the steps, her legs weak and shaky. Steve met her at the door. "Is something wrong?" she asked Steve's smile told her things were all nght, but he did not answer her question; he led her into the house. But her relief in finding the children all right was quickly displaced by dismay, for there in the big gold rocker, in the corner of the room, sat Aunt Martha Jane. OR a moment Jane stood speechless. Of all the inopportune times for Aunt Martha Jane to come, it was this moment. Finally, Jane gasped breathlessly, "Why, Aunt Martha Jane!" Then, realizing that her face must be revealing her feelings, she tried to smile. "Aunt Martha Jane called from the station, and when you were not here, she called my office," Steve explained, noting Jane's discomfort. Had Steve explained to her aunt where she had been? Jane wondered. And another thing, what could she rake up in a hurry for dinner? She had planned on just serving leftovers tonight. At any moment she expected Aunt Martha Jane to come out with some prov- 515 erb, such as, "A virtuous woman looketh well to the ways of her household." But, instead she was hurrying toward her with a big smile on her face. She kissed Jane on the cheek. "I've missed you, no end, Jane. Everyone in Brentville has missed you both," she said, and her eyes were moist. Jane gave her aunt a pat on the shoulder, and found herself saying, "I've missed you, too, Aunt Martha Jane; I've missed you all," and there were tears of happiness and real homesickness running down _ her cheeks. She stood back and took a good look at her aunt. What she saw in her face was true goodness and dependability, and at that moment Jane decided that to be like Aunt Martha Jane would be wonderful, after all. Jane looked over at Steve, expecting to see amusement on his face, but he looked at her proudly, and very seriously. "Oh, Janie," he said, "the Relief Society president called a few minutes. Ago, and wanted to talk to you. She said something about she hoped you had changed your decision." Without explaining, Jane said, "I have changed my decision. Ill call her in the morning." Son Flowers Louise Morris Kelley Dance under wild plum's windblown froth; Dream where the dogwood grows. With orange blossoms plight your troth Or serenade a rose; Wear orchids—but son flowers for me. Plucked by a boy of half-past three! Washington State Wonder—Soap Lake Marijane Morris OME fifty-two miles south of the gigantic, man-made dam, Grand Coulee, in the State of Washington, lies a small lake, 1073 feet above sea level, three miles long and one mile wide, that is right out of our dreams. Not the kind of dream, however, that pictures moonlight and music and romantic waters; but the kind of dream that sometimes borders on the ridiculous, like walking barefooted down Main Street. We could, in this dream, bathe Courtesy, Bureau of Reclamation Ephrata, Washington in a lake of soapy appearing water. We could frolic on sun-bathed beaches in "soapsuds" to our knees. Then we could make our dream come true, for such a lake does exist. Its name—Soap Lake. To be more specific about its location, it lies at the southern entrance to the Grand Coulee in north-central Washington, 165 miles east from Seattle; west from Spokane, 120 miles; north of Pasco, 110 miles. Long years ago it must have been DRY FALLS, NEAR COULEE CITY, ONCE A HUGE CATARACT IN THE COLUMBIA RIVER Page 516 WASHINGTON STATE WONDER—SOAP LAKE Courtesy, Bu Ephrata, Washington SUDS ALONG THE SHORE OF SOAP LAKE, WASHINGTON a delight to the Indians who first discovered its remarkable powers. They had great respect for its wonders. 'They called it "Smokiam," which has a literal meaning of "healing salts." The area itself is unusual and unique. It is exciting country, almost pre-historic with its somber basalt cliffs. 'To the scientist it is a treasure of geological information written in the rocks. It is sometimes referred to as "the Eighth Geological Wonder of the World." Part of the immediate section surrounding Soap Lake is Dry Falls. Once tremendous cataracts in the Columbia River thundered over 517 these falls during the last ice age. In the vicinity of Soap Lake and on its sunny beaches during most of the year unequaled sunshine prevails. 'The atmosphere is desert in nature in that it is free of dust and allows a superabundance of ultraviolet rays to reach the earth and the mineral water of the lake. The chemical content of the lake is interesting. It goes like this: oil, silica, sulphate, carbonate, —bicarbonate, chloride, organic nitrogen, nitrite, nitrate, phosphorus, fluoride, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, iron, copper, tubidium, and lithium, with sodium and carbonate having the highest per cent solids. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1894 "For THE RicutTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" ADVANCEMENT: The ladies who have recently graduated from Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's School of Obstetrics are Mrs. Matilda Swenson, Mrs. Mary Ann Hamlin, Mrs. Leona Benson, Mrs. Marina Hansen, Mrs. Eliza Smith, Mrs. Mary Midgley, and Mrs. Sarah Vance. 'These ladies have shown marked integrity in their studies, received certificates of proficiency and we believe go forth to extended spheres of usefulness, and will in their respective localities fill a long felt want.... Truly their mission is one of the most grand and noble! One filled with daily and homely self-sacrifice, one to call into action the better part of their natures, their stern energies, and their soft and tender emotions.... This knowledge should be a component part of every woman's education. Let the minds of our daughters be cultivated and adorned with all the beauties of art, music, and literature, but let domestic science with the care and nursing of the sick, become an essential, aye an indispensable part of their accomplishments. —H. MEDITATION And forever, and ever unfailing, Is the wealth of that infinite love, Through all life and all being pervading, 'Which proceeds from our Father above, But the life-giving means is the marvel The mystery, past knowledge and skill, No man can the secret unravel, It abideth in God, at His will. —E. B. W. NOTE FROM TEASDALE, WAYNE COUNTY: Although we are far away from your beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yct we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meetings, and we are trying to do our duty and adhere to the counsel given to us, in storing up grain, and studying the Lectures on Faith and storing our minds with good and useful knowledge, and trying to live as becomes Latter-day Saints and mothers in Israel. —Mary E.. Adams, President, Teasdale Relief Society ADMISSION OF UTAH: Another star is to be added to our flag by the admission of Utah as a State. Utah... Has a record of industry, unequaled by any other state in the union. From dry, desert wastes, to fertile farms, it has been changed by industry in the space of but forty-seven years. —Louis. Granger A REMEMBERED EXHORTATION Hold up your heads! My Sisters! Speak! And sing! 'That you may be heard! Watch the swelling throat and open beak Of the joyous little bird. —L. L. Greene Richards Page 518 ELDORA MAUGHAN, Preston, Idaho, a Latter-dav Saint mother of seven JOHNSON MP. Children, was selected as "Idaho Mother of 1954.' A devoted Relief Society worker and active in other Church work, Mrs. Maughan accompanied her husband on a mission to New Zealand and taught school at the Maorn Agricultural College. She has served in many civic positions of responsibility, including vice-president of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, and delegate to the Umited Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural departments. RS. PHILIP F. La FOLLETTE, wife of former Governor La Follette of Wisconsin, has organized in Madison, a Womans Service Exchange, especially to help older women to find jobs where their particular experience and abilities will count. Women up to sixty, or older, some without high school education, ex-teachers, and 'office workers find employment which can fit in with their special home situations. ESTA P. CRAWFORD, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, was presented with a distinguished service award from Bngham Young University on Alumni Day, June 5, 1954.