[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: FEATURES | Author: Williamso]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Bed Jackets Elizabeth Williamson]
560  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST    1954 
Questions  on  the  Lesson  3-  ^^'hy  does  Ruskin  forsake  artistic  for 
"^  social  criticism?     How  are  the  two  iiiter- 
1.  WHiat  in  Ruskin's  childliood  do  you       rckited? 
feci  desirable?  Undesirable?  ^.  \\']u^  did  Ruskin  so  violently  opiX)sc 
2.  For    Ruskin    what    is    the    origin    of       industrialism,    mass    production,    and    the 
beauty?  assembly  line? 
(boctal  (Science — The  Constitution 
of  the  United  States 
(It  is  recommended  that  each  Relief  Society  member  read  the  text  of  the  Constitution 
relating  to  eacli  lesson  as  printed  before  the  lesson) 
Text  of  Article  I  [C.  of  U.  S.  pp.  271-275) 
Section  1.  All  legislative  Powers  herein  granted  shall  be  vested  in  a  Congress  of  the 
United  States,  which  shall  consist  of  a  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives. 
Section  2.  I'he  House  of  Representatives  shall  be  composed  of  Members  chosen 
every  second  Year  by  the  People  of  the  scxcral  States  and  the  Electors  in  each  State  shall 
have  the  Qualifications  requisite  for  Electors  of  the  most  numerous  Branch  of  the 
State  Legislature. 
No  Person  shall  be  a  Representative  who  shall  not  have  attained  to  the  Age  of 
twenty-five  Years,  and  been  seven  Years  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall 
not,  when  elected,  be  an  Inhabitant  of  that  State  in  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 
Representatives  and  direct  Taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among  the  several  States 
which  may  be  included  within  this  Union,  according  to  their  respective  Numbers,  which 
shall  be  determined  by  adding  to  the  wliole  Number  of  free  Persons,  including  those 
bound  to  Service  for  a  Term  of  Years,  and  excluding  Indians  not  taxed,  three  fifths  of 
all  other  Persons.  The  actual  Enumeration  shall  be  made  within  three  Years  after  the 
first  Meeting  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  within  every  subsequent  Term 
of  ten  Years,  in  such  Manner  as  they  shall  by  Law  direct.  The  Number  of  Repre- 
sentatives shall  not  exceed  one  for  every  thirty  Thousand,  but  each  State  shall  have  at 
Least  one  Representative;  and  until  such  enumeration  shall  be  made,  the  State  of  New 
Hampshire  shall  be  entitled  to  chusc  three,  Massachusetts  eight,  Rhode-Island  and 
Providence  Plantations  one,  Connecticut  fi\e,  New-York  six.  New  Jersey  four,  I'enn- 
sylvania  eight,  Delaware  one,  Maryland  six,  Virginia  ten,  North  Carolina  five.  South 
Carolina  five,  and  Georgia  three. 
When  \'acancies  happen  in  the  Representation  from  any  State,  the  Executive 
Authority  thereof  shall  issue  Writs  of  Election  to  fill  such  Vacancies. 
The  House  of  Representatives  shall  ehuse  their  Speaker  and  other  Officers;  and 
shall  have  the  sole  Power  of  Impeachment. 
Section  3.  The  Senate  of  the  United  States  shall  be  composed  of  two  Senators  from 
each  State,  chosen  by  the  Legislature  thereof,  for  six  Years;  and  each  Senator  shall  have 
one  Vote. 
Immediately  after  they  shall  be  assembled  in  Consequence  of  the  first  Election, 
they  shall  be  divided  as  equally  as  may  be  into  three  Classes.  The  Seats  of  the  Senators 
of  the  first  Class  shall  be  vacated  at  the  Expiration  of  the  second  Year,  of  the  second 
Class  at  the  Expiration  of  the  fourth  Year,  and  of  the  third  Class  at  the  Expiration  of  the 
sixth  Year,  so  that  one-third  may  be  chosen  every  second  Year;  and  if  Vacancies  happen 
by  Resignation,  or  otherwise,  during  the  Recess  of  the  Legislature  of  any  State,  the  Ex- 
ecutive thereof  may  make  temporary  Appointments  until  the  next  Jsleeting  of  the 
Legislature,  which  shall  then  fill  such  \'acancies. 
No  Person  shall  be  a  Senator  who  shall  not  have  attained  to  the  Age  of  thirty 
Years,  and  been  nine  Years  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall  not,  when  elect- 
ed, be  an  Inhabitant  of  that  State  for  which  he  shall  be  chosen.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  561 
The  Vice-President  of  the  United  States  shall  be  President  of  the  Senate,  but 
shall  have  no  Vote,  unless  they  be  equally  divided. 
The  Senate  shall  chuse  their  other  Officers,  and  also  a  President  pro  tempore,  in 
the  absence  of  the  Vice-President,  or  when  he  shall  exercise  the  Office  of  President  of 
the  United  States. 
The  Senate  shall  have  the  sole  Power  to  try  all  Impeachments.  When  sitting  for 
that  Purpose,  they  shall  be  on  Oath  or  Affirmation.  When  the  President  of  the  United 
States  is  tried,  the  Chief  Justice  shall  preside:  And  no  Person  shall  be  convicted  without 
the  Concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  the  Members  present. 
Judgment  in  Cases  of  Impeachment  shall  not  extend  further  than  to  removal  from 
office,  and  disqualification  to  hold  and  enjoy  any  Office  of  honor,  Trust,  or  Profit  under 
the  United  States:  but  the  Party  convicted  shall  nevertheless  be  liable  and  subject  to 
Indictment,  Trial,  Judgment  and  Punishment,  according  to  Law. 
Section  ^.  The  Times,  Places,  and  Manner  of  holding  Elections  for  Senators  and 
Representatives,  shall  be  prescribed  in  each  State  by  the  Legislature  thereof;  but  the 
Congress  may  at  any  time  by  Law  make  or  alter  such  Regulations,  except  as  to  the 
Places  of  chusing  Senators. 
The  Congress  shall  assemble  at  least  once  in  c\ery  Year,  and  such  Meeting  shall  be 
on  the  first  Monday  in  December,  unless  they  shall  by  Law  appoint  a  different  Day. 
Section  5.  Each  House  shall  be  the  Judge  of  the  Elections,  Returns  and  Qualifica- 
tions of  its  own  Members,  and  a  Majority  of  each  shall  constitute  a  Quorum  to  do 
Business;  but  a  smaller  Number  ma\'  adjourn  from  day  to  day,  and  may  be  authorized 
to  compel  the  Attendance  of  absent  Members,  in  such  Manner,  and  under  such  Penal- 
ties as  each  House  may  provide. 
Each  House  may  determine  the  Rules  of  its  Proceedings,  punish  its  Members  for 
disorderly  Behavior  and,  with  the  Concurrence  of  two  thirds,  expel  a  Member. 
Each  House  shall  keep  a  Journal  of  its  Proceedings,  and  from  time  to  time  pub- 
lish the  same,  excepting  such  Parts  as  may  in  their  Judgment  require  Secrecy;  and  the 
Yeas  and  Nays  of  the  Members  of  either  House  on  any  question  shall,  at  the  Desire  of 
one  fifth  of  those  Present,  be  entered  on  the  Journal. 
Neither  House,  during  the  Session  of  Congress,  shall  without  the  Consent  of  the 
other,  adjourn  for  more  than  three  days,  nor  to  any  other  Place  than  that  in  which
