[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
COSTUMED  MODELS  OF  THE  FIRST  LADIES 
507 
THREE  STAGES  IN  MAKING  THE  MODELS  OF  THE  FIRST  LADIES 
Left  to  right:   Mannequin  as  it  comes  from  the  mold;  finished  mannequin  ready 
to  be  dressed,  hair  and  arms  added;  dressed  figure. 
pearls  clown  the  front  of  the  dress 
worn  by  Mrs.  William  McKinley, 
but  Mrs.  Warren  G.  Harding's 
dress  was  the  most  difficult,"  she 
added,  "because  I  couldn't  use  a 
basic  pattern.  I  just  had  to  drape 
and  cut.  The  dress  worn  bv  Mrs. 
Harriet  Lane  Johnston,  niece  of 
James  Buchanan,  was  the  most  elab- 
orate one  of  all." 
Mrs.  Whiting  is  now  beginning 
the  work  on  the  dress  Mrs.  Truman 
wore  at  the  1949  inauguration  fes- 
tivities. The  description  of  this 
dress  was  sent  to  her  by  Mrs.  Tru- 
man's secretary. 
These  fashions  in  miniature  ac- 
curately reflect  the  period  in  which 
they  were  worn.  ^Iartha  Washing- 
ton, in  her  soft  pink  colonial  gown 
and  bonnet,  makes  quite  a  contrast 
to  the  American  Beauty  short  formal 
worn  by  Mrs.  Calvin  Coolidge. 
Then  there  is  the  shapeless  narrow 
dress  worn  by  Mrs.  John  Q.  Adams, 
in  contrast  to  the  slender  bodice  and 
full  o\'er-skirt  of  yellow  satin  worn 
by  Dolly  Madison,  wife  of  James 
Madison. 
Mrs.  Whiting  is  the  wife  of  a 
busy  husband  and  has  four  children 
to  care  for.  She  is  also  active  in 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  in  the  civic  af- 
fairs of  her  community.  Her  hus- 
band designed  the  clever  carrying 
cases  for  the  dolls.  These  cases  are 
indispensable  in  caring  for  so  many 
fragile  pieces  of  art.  Mrs.  Whiting 
can  safely  take  the  dolls  with  her 
when  she  is  in\ited  to  share  with 
others  the  products  of  her  work  and 
study.  She  has  shown  these  dolls 
in  their  beautiful  gowns  to  more 
than  sixty  gatherings,  and  each  time 
she  tells  about  the  life  of  each  First 
Lady  to  her  enthusiastic  audiences. 
She  received  an  all  expense  paid  trip 
to  Detroit,  Michigan,  as  a  guest  of 
a  large  department  store  there.  She