RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
poems I like best there are two others that ought to be included?Bill and Joe and The Last Leaf. I think these are among my best."
"What is the history of The Chambered Nautilus?" Edward asked.
"It has none," came the reply, "it wrote itself. So, too, did The One-Hoss Shay. That was one of those random conceptions that gallop through the brain, and that you catch by the bridle. I caught it and reined it. That is all."
Holmes was undoubtedly right in regarding The Chambered Nautilus as his most finished poem. In this estimate, Whittier joined by remarking that the poem was "booked for immortality." The last stanza of the poem maintains the New England tradition that a poem is of little worth unless it teaches some moral lesson. But the nobility of its conception and the beauty of its expression, makes it one of the most pleasing stanzas as well as one of the most quotable bits in all of our American literature.
THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS
This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main,? The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair.
Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed,? Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed!
Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.
Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:?

"Your name may flaunt a titled trail Proud as a cockerel's rainbow tail, And mine as brief appendix wear As Tam O'Shanter's luckless mare; Today, old friend, remember still That I am Joe and you are Bill.
"You've won the great world's envied prize, And grand you look in people's eyes, With HON. And LL.D., In big brave letters, fair to see,? Your fist, old fellow! Off they go!? How are you, Bill?- How are you, Joe?"
The three stanzas included will give a definite idea of the spirit and trend of the poem. We suggest, that if time permits, the entire poem be read to the class.
The Old Man Dreams was written in 1854. The assumption is that the responsibilities of life are cast off and an hour of youthful joy indulged in. We also include this poem that you may feel the youthful soul that permeates it.
"Oh for one hour Of youthful joy! Give back my twentieth spring! I'd rather laugh, a bright-haired boy, Than reign, a gray-haired king.
"Off with the spoils of wrinkled age! Away with Learning's crown! Tear out life's Wisdom-written page, And dash its trophies down!
"One moment let my life-blood stream From boyhood's fount of flame! Give me one giddy, reeling dream Of life all love and fame!
"My listening angel heard the prayer, And, calmly smiling, said, 'If I but touch thy silvered hair Thy hasty wish hath sped.
"'But is there nothing in thy track, To bid thee fondly stay, While the swift seasons hurry back To find the wished-for day?'
"Ah, truest soul of womankind! Without thee what were life? One bliss I cannot leave behind: I'll take?my?precious?wife!
"The angel took a sapphire pen And wrote in rainbow dew, The man would be a boy again, And be a husband too!
GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER
"And is there nothing yet unsaid, Before the change appears? Remember, all their gifts have fled With those dissolving years"
"Why, yes;' for memory would recall My fond paternal joys; 'I could not bear to leave them all? I'll take?my?girl?and?boys.'
"The smiling angel dropped his pen? 'Why, this will never do; The man would be a boy again, And be a father too!'
"And so I laughed,?my laughter woke The household with its noise,? And wrote my dream, when morning broke, To please the gray-haired boys."
THE BOYS
Has there any old fellow got mixed with the boys? If there has, take him out, without making a noise. Hang the Almanac's cheat and the Catalogue's spite! Old Time is a liar! We're twenty tonight!
We're Twenty! We're Twenty! Who says we are more? He's tipsy,?young jackanapes!?show him the door! "Gray temples at twenty?"?Yes! White if you please; Where the snow-flakes fall thickest there's nothing can freeze!
Was it snowing I spoke of? Excuse the mistake! Look close,?you will see not a sign of a flake! We want some new garlands for those we have shed,? And these are white roses in place of the red.
We've a trick, we young fellows, you may have been told, Of talking (in public) as if we were old:? That boy we call "Doctor," and this we call "Judge;" It's a neat little fiction,?of course it's all fudge.
That fellow's the "Speaker,"?the one on the right; "Mr. Mayor," my young one, how are you tonight? That's our "Member of Congress," we say when we chaff; There's the "Reverend"? What's his name??don't make me laugh.
That boy with the grave mathematical look Made believe he had written a wonderful book, And the ROYAL SOCIETY thought it was true! So they chose him right in; a good joke it was, too!
There's a boy, we pretend, with a three-decker brain, That could harness a team with a logical chain; When he spoke for our manhood in syllabled fire, We called him "The Justice," but now he's "The Squire."
And there's a nice youngster of excellent pith,? Fate tried to conceal him by naming him Smith; But he shouted a song for the brave and the free,? Just read on his medal, "My country," "of thee!"

gone the demoralizing strain of a long period of failure and misfortune. This process of losing health and hope and friends is usually a gradual and insidious one, brought about by a sequence of disheartening events. Therefore, the building-up process, the renewing of the physical and mental powers cannot be accomplished in a moment. Because of the growth of the desired positive values is slow, and often meets with apparent failure for a time, superficial treatment cannot be effective. Intensive and tireless and prolonged effort is needed to effect the desired changes in individuals and the forces that influence their development.
It is impossible, of course, to outline a general plan of treatment for certain types of social ailments. The plan to rehabilitate delinquents, for instance, cannot be the same for each one. What course is advisable to follow must be determined by the individual personality, his physical and mental and emotional make-up, his background, his capabilities, and the resources that the home and the community have to offer. Just such information and understanding is needed also to guide the future of any person who is in difficulty?whether he is one who has failed economically or one who evades the responsibility of caring for his family. Because treatment cannot be administered by a prescribed formula, the task of aiding people who are not succeeding is extremely difficult. It is possible, only, to indicate certain ends that may be attained, and a general method that may be used in accomplishing these ends.
It is essential in planning a course of social treatment to determine, quite definitely, what achievement is possible in a particular situation. Serious thought must be given to both the handicaps, or liabilities, that have stood in the way of normal adjustment, and also to the potentialities, or assets, that indicate possibilities for growth and development. The handicaps should be removed, if possible, and if not, they should be understood as permanent disadvantages to the individual. At the same time the potentialities of the situation should be developed. The individual should be restored to health if he is ill, should be trained for suitable employment if he has met with industrial disability, should be made to assume responsibilities if he has been evading them, should be relieved of worry and strain if the burden he has been carrying has been too heavy, should be connected with friends and relatives and church if he has become estranged from them during his period of distress. The process of treatment is the elimination of undesirable elements in the situation and the fostering and strengthening of the powers and traits and connections that are desirable.
Perhaps the treatment administered in the following simple illustration will show the processes involved. A woman who had
been ill for some time, was sure that she would not recover, so wanted to place her eight-year-old boy in a good home, so that she would have no further worry about his future. After some study and interpretation and treatment, the child was kept with the mother, but only after certain handicaps had been removed and certain possibilities for adjustment had been created. The handicaps to be removed were the mother's ill health; her discouragement, and her strong conviction that her plan was her only recourse. The assets in the situation on which the treatment was based, were the assurance, given by the physician, after an examination, that the mother's health could be restored, her willingness to be guided by what would be best for the child, and her strong desire to have him with her. So her consent was finally gained to have the boy placed temporarily, instead of permanently, and with renewed hope she submitted herself to medical treatment which resulted in a gradual recovery of health and courage, and later in her economic independence.
Questions and Problems
1. Explain in some detail the three processes used in solving a social problem.
2. Why is treatment the final test? Why is it often discouraging?
3. Why is the treatment of a juvenile offender likely to be more successful than the treatment of an older offender?
4. Why is an understanding of the mental and physical and emotional make-up of a person necessary, when treatment is being planned for him?
5. Show how the plan in the incident might have failed, if the person interested in the mother had not been skillful in changing mental attitudes.