[Vol11 | July 1924 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: National and International Councils of Women Amy Brown Lyman]

National and International Councils of Women (Quinquennial Meeting, Washington, D. C., May, 1925) Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.
In May of 1925 the greatest meeting of women which the United States has ever known will be held in Washington, D. C. This meeting will be under the auspices of the International Council of Women, which is a great federation or league or council representing the organized women of the world?thirty-six million refined, educated thinking women, belonging through their own national organizations to this great Council.

The International Council is composed of National Councils or groups, thirty-four in number, representing the women of the various nations or countries; and these National Councils are in turn made up of local national associations, societies and federations.

The International Council of Women will be 37 years old in April, 1925, having been formed in Washington, D. C., in 1888, at a great gathering of women called for the purpose by the National Woman's Suffrage Association of America.

This conference was well planned and was wonderfully successful.

It covered a period of seven days.

Nearly one hundred addresses were given by women from seven different countries, and representing fifty-three national organizations.

In addition to organization reports there were nine general or major subjects discussed, including temperance, philanthropy, education, health, industries, political conditions, etc. The sessions opened on Sunday with religious services; and it is a source of pride to women to know that these services were conducted by three ordained women ministers who were just as capable as the men ministers of the day.

They were Rev. Antoinette B. Blackwell, Rev. Olympia Brown, and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw.

At this first great organization meeting, the National Woman's Relief Society and the National Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association were invited to send delegates, which they did, and these delegates with others, reported the work of their respective organizations.

The objects, purpose and policy of the International Council of Women are set forth in the Preamble and Constitution, from which the following is quoted: "We, women of all Nations, sincerely believing that the best good of humanity will be advanced by greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and of the INTERNATIONAL COUNCILS OF WOMEN 353 State, do hereby band ourselves in a confederation of workers, committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule to society, custom, and law.

That we may successfully prosecute the work, we adopt the following constitution.

This Federation shall be called the International Council of Women.

This Council is organized in the interest of no one propaganda, and has no power over its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sympathy; therefore, no National Council voting.

To become auxiliary to the International Council shall thereby render itself liable to be interfered with in respect to its complete organic unity, indepertdence or method of work, or shall be committed to any principle or method of any other Council or to any utterance or act of this International Council beyond compliance with the Constitution." At the same time and place that the International Council was organized, in 1888, the National Council of Women of the United States was organized, with the same aims and purposes, and it was the first of all of the national councils to federate with the international organization.

It was soon followed, however, by the National Councils of Canada, Germany, Sweden and Great Britain, and later by others, until now there are thirty-nine national organizations belonging to this great league, and the women of China, Japan and India are planning now to join.

Among the ? charter members of the National Council of the United States were the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. These organizations still belong and enjoy taking part in its deliberations, and profit greatly by the contact such affiliation affords.

In contemplating the great International Council, the question naturally arises, What prompted its origin?

How was it conceived?

What were its.

Beginnings?

In answer, it might be explained that the Council idea was conceived in the brains of Amer- 'can women who had been working forty years for woman suffrage.

These women felt that they had accomplished a great deal, and at the end of forty years they thought it would be a good idea to.

Get the women of the world together in a reunion to talk over the progress made by women and the many human problems in which women are naturally interested.

The International Council came really as a process of growth, as an evolvement from other organizations.

It represented the great women's movement of the day and was the climax thereof.

So, in order to get an idea of how the Council came to be we must go back to the movements which preceded it, and which led up to it.

The Council was the child of the suffrage movement, the object of which 356. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A very interesting feature, in connection with the meeting next year in Washington, D. C., is the fact that the women of the United States will meet the women of the world for the first time as full-fledged American citizens.

Arrangements for the meetings have already begun, The National Daughters of the American Revolution have offered the use of the Memorial Continental Hall, and the use of the Pan-American Building has been secured.

The sessions will be most interesting.

The first evening will be the formal opening when Mrs. Moore will present the President of the United States, the Secretary of State, and the President of the National D. A. R. There will be addresses of welcome in English, French, and German by three of the vicepresidents.

Lady Aberdeen will respond to the welcome.

The second evening will be a musical, the program to be made up of the Indian Music of the early days, Negro Spirituals, and music of American composers.

The National Council of Women, as hostess to this great gathering of women, is most anxious for this meeting to be a success.

The president, Mrs. Moore, and her capable officers, including our own Mrs. Ruth May Fox, are doing their utmost for its success; and standing squarely behind these officers are the women of America.

We appeal now to the women of Utah to do their mite.

It has been decided by the National Council to organize the women of each state, and a chairman for the state of Utah has been appointed in the person of our own dear President Clarissa S. Williams, to help make preparations for this great event.

Mrs, Williams has accepted this appointment and I am sure will feel very responsible, and very anxious for the women of Utah to do whatever they may be asked to do to help out.

With this gathering.

I am sure that the women of Utah will support Mrs. Williams in whatever she is asked to do, and will help her to carry forward any plan that the National president may ask of her.

I pray that the Lord will bless us and accept our labors, and.

Accept our thanks for the wonderful opportunity He has given to women. ? Mrs. Ruth May Fox 'Member of the General Presidency of the Y. L. M. 1. A., and auditor of the National Council, indorsed the remarks of Mrs. Lyman and spoke of the great international meeting which is being arranged for by the National Council, which is composed of ten million women.

Mrs. Fox stated that it is her desire that all Utah women will be so interested in the coming quinquennial that they will assist in making it a success; and that if any are contemplating a trip to the eastern states 'within a year or two, they will keep in mind that in May, 1925, will be held this great meeting. 389 Two of the girls have taken advantage of this privilege and are doing work for the dead.

"We have been fortunate this winter in joining with the three year girls in morning devotional exercises, and in hearing some of the most distinguished speakers in the city at their Monday night theology classes.

We are also invited to join in all their social activities.? "We wish to express our gratitude to a number of the doctors who have so willingly given their time in lecturing on subjects pertaining to our work, and for their kindness and attention in times of sickness.? We are also desirous of expressing our appreciation to the hospital authorities and the General Board of the Relief Society for the improvements which have been made in our home, making it more comfortable and home like.

We have very much enjoyed the monthly visits of the members of the General Board of the Relief Society and the valuable advice and instructions given us.

"Nearly all of the girls who take this one year Relief Society training course come from parts of the country where medical skill is scarce, and to them will fall the responsibility of caring for the sick and afflicted.

We hope to hear the same good reports of them, and their work, that we have of members of former classes.

In their work in the hospital, these girls have been diligent, conscientious and energetic and have been a help to one another in their studies and home life.

As their supervisor I can say that I have enjoyed their association and feel a personal responsibility for each one.

They have been loyal and respectful and have supported me in every way, and I hope they will go from our institution with a full determination in their hearts to relieve pain and suffering in their respective communities; seeking divine aid at all times, coupling faith with their works and applying the knowledge they have gained for the good of those with whom they come in contact, remembering always the golden rule, Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.

What Our Training at the Latter-day Saint Hospital Has Meant to Us was the subject of the paper presented by Miss Winona Hill of Sunnyside, Utah, from whose address we quote the following: - "There is no profession which develops the character more than a nurse's training.

In addition to caring for the physical needs of the patient, we have the opportunity of bringing into our work that God-given gift, the touch of human kindness.

With- "out it our work becomes mechanical and we find no joy or satisfaction in our labors.

"The further we advance in our work, the more seriously we 360. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE realize the importance of caring for our own health, and we feel that by living up to those high ideals which our training has taught us we shall be better prepared to care for ourselves and our families in whatever circumstances of life we may be placed.

"Our training has taught us to render greater service to our fellow men, to our Church and to our God, and we hope to belong to that class of nurses who are always ready to heed the call of duty and say with Kipling: 'And none but the Master shall praise us, And none but the Master shall blame; And no one shall work for money, And no one shall work for fame; But each for the love of the working And each in his separate star Shall work out the thing as he finds it, 279 For the love of things as they are'. 'After the reading of the paper two solos were sung by Miss Abigail Merseberg, of Honolulu, a member of the graduating class, accompanied by Miss Mildred Bird and Mr. And Mrs. Mathias Nelson.

The address to the graduates was made by Bishop Charles W. Nibley of the Presiding Bishopric.

Bishop Nibley stated that he recognizes the importance of such classes and believes that yet some way and means will be found whereby they may be continued.

This preparation will benefit the girls as it not only prepares them to help others, but also prepares them for marriage.

He encouraged the cultivation of the quality of patience.

Love of work is essential, but the virtue of great patience must be added.

This great profession is an outgrowth of only recent years.

It's beginning was at the time of Florence Nightingale.

The importance of nursing was demonstrated in the recent world war.

It's importance may also be seen in our daily work.. The spirit and inspiration of the Almighty are needed always.

It may be secured by prayer, chastity.

And the living of pure | lives.

The Spirit of God will not prompt where these are not present.

Holiness is necessary to true success.

Another quality needed is good sound sense.

A nurse must also have a realization of her duty to her fellow men.

Common sense is needed for the guidance of the world; common sense in place of so much theory.

Judgement, skill, patience, and a reliance upon God will bring success.

"Seek the Lord and he will guide you.

Man cannot be guided by sight alone, but must also have faith." He advised the girls always to be in a position to learn.

The wisest have only begun to learn.

There is much to learn in the medical field.

"What a piece of work is man!" Many fields as yet are only scratched.. 362, ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that was not their right.

She recalled the fact that this newly graduated group had become a new unit of a much larger group, who had gone forth comforting and blessing and helping to restore to health the sick, and that in that larger group were to be found a goodly number who had become noted in the profession.

"Always feel that you are children of the Relief Society and that the Relief Society is your mother.

Your responsibility is to aid the Relief Society in aiding those who cannot afford to pay." She asked God's blessings upon the girls.

Acknowledgement was made to the Civic Center for the instruction of dietetics given by Mrs. Henrietta Burton.

Appreciation was also extended to the following physicians: Dr. Geo.

W. Middleton, Dr. S. H. Allen, Dr. A. L. Brown, Dr. T. F. H. Morton, Dr. J. Z. Brown, Dr. A. C. Callister, Dr. W. Christopherson, Dr. E. L. Skidmore, Dr. F. S Hatch, Dr. J. F. Sharp, and Dr. F, M. McHugh.

Doxology was the closing song.

Prayer was offered by Sister Emma A. Empey.