[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: One of | Author: Coles]
[One of the Best by Christie Lund Coles]

MO OK OK Oe A gangling boy, with a bored look on his countenance, sauntered into the schoolroom, minutes late the following morning. At sight of a new teacher his shoulders straightened, then, as if he were thinking, she'll be no different, he resumed his slouch and took his seat at the back of the room. "So you're Charles Moffitt." Connie Ziebarth smiled. "Just call me Chuck," he mumbled into his shirt. "We missed you Chuck." "Had to get the spring grain planted Miss...." "Tm Mrs. Ziebarth, Chuck. I used to live on a farm, years ago. I like farms. Do you have most of your spring planting done now?" "I finished last night.'"' He smiled triumphantly, yet shyly. "Good work, then you'll be able to attend quite regularly for the rest of the term, Chuck?" "Well, it's hard to say. If nothing goes wrong at the ranch... Perhaps." Then he looked up and queried, "You going to teach the rest of the year?" "Mr. Conklin asked me to." The morning progressed beautifully. English, spelling, arithmetic, science, took their respective places. Chuck Moffitt participated in every class, but with an abstract attitude. His vocabulary was outstanding for the seventh grade. Connie thought, he's much too mature for this group. Yesterday, 360 That's why he lacks interest. She wanted to talk more with Chuck, compliment him on his fine poem, and offer to lend some poetry books she had, and to ask him if he had written other poems besides the peach-tree poem. When the noon bell rang, Connie made a point to be at Chuck's desk. "Chuck, can you stay a moment? I'd like to speak to you." Connie halfway expected him to bolt and run with the others. "Okay," he mumbled, as he watched the others leaving the room. "Do you raise peach trees on your farm, Chuck?" "I've been babying one along, just outside my bedroom window. It bloomed this year, just like the poem says." Well, Connie thought, we've arrived at the subject of the peachtree poem much quicker than I had anticipated. "Of what does a peach tree remind you, Chuck?" "Why, Mrs. Ziebarth, just like the poem says, it reminds me of a ballerina dancer, as it shimmers and sways. Mom and I once went to a dance festival and a tiny slip of a lady danced the ballerina. Our peach tree is dainty like that, Mrs. Ziebarth." "Thanks for staying and talking with me, Chuck. Want to make a run for the cafeteria and get in line with the others in the class?" "T sure am hungry." He smiled broadly and was gone. Alone at her desk, Connie chided herself. Why didn't you ask him right out if he wrote the poem, instead of hedging? Connie never remembered coming in contact with anyone just like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Chuck Moffitt before. Yet she had to admit he was a challenge. No wonder the former teacher suddenly decided to get married in mid-term and quit teaching. TAL same evening, in the quiet of her own room, Connie Ziebarth went over the seventh grade poems for the final judging. She must be fair about this. Again Chuck's poem stood out far better than any of the others. It was beautiful in feeling and full of imagery, and the best in accent, rhythm, and thyme. Yes, she must admit it, the poem seemed too good to be Chuck's. Yet Chuck wasn't an ordinary boy. He was alone much of the time in the fields, he could study nature, he had an imagination, a vocabulary. He just might have written it, but could she be sure? She must know before the school assembly next week. She must not make a mistake, giving the prize to someone undeserving of it. Connie shut her eyes, only to see a blossoming peach tree. P've spent more than enough time judging verses, when I see them with my eyes closed. I believe I'll ask one of the other teachers to help judge. Perhaps I have been partial. For relaxation before bedtime, Connie picked up the latest issue of a magazine and started thumbing through, reading the poetry at the end of each page. 'Toward the back of the magazine she stopped short, "The Peach Tree!" 'There it was in black and white. Her eyes traversed the ten short lines. It was the same, not a single word had been changed! What was the word for literary theft? Plagiarism! 'To PEACH-TREE POEM commit plagiarism was equal to stealing. Slowly Connie withdrew the peach-tree poem from the others. Her impulse was to tear it into shreds. But what good would that do? This boy must be told. This time she wouldn't hedge about her duty. She picked up her pen and wrote across the bottom of the page: plagiarism. "This poem, as you very well know, was copied verbatim from a current magazine. Borrowing written work from another is called plagiarism, which is one form of stealing." "Well, that settles it. The prize will go to Mike 'Teerlink for his verse 'My Dog Mitzy!'" Connie Ziebarth slipped off her robe, turned out the light, and crawled into bed. She couldn't remember when she had ever been so tired. No, this thing she felt wasn't tiredness. It was deep-down disappointment, which shriveled — her heart. 'Try as she would, she could not dismiss the thought of the boy living up in the Cove, doing a man's work and taking care of his widowed mother and five little brothers and sisters. He had looked her straight in the eye and had told her he had a peach tree, and that it bloomed, and reminded him of a ballet dancer. Had he lied about these things, too? 'Tomorrow was Saturday and she would drive up the Cove and check on a few things. % 7K Ke Xe ts THE day dawned clear and bright. Spring was scented with lilacs, and laden with bridal wreath... A perfect day for a ride, but Connie dreaded the task before her. Yet before she left, she must clear her 361 conscience. She withdrew the peach tree poem. She had been harsh, overwrought, and disappointed last night. Words on paper were cold and cruel and lived long in the memory. What she must do she would do verbally. Carefully with scissors, Connie trimmed her note from the bottom of the peach-tree poem. Connie backed her car from the garage and drove straight toward the Cove. 'The car itself seemed eager for the drive and purred merrily and mockingly. At this early hour even the bird calls held a rhythm, a bit of poetry in each throated sound. 'lhe Cove seemed to wear a blossom on every stem. Ordinarily, Connie would have been compelled to stop and gather a bouquet of wild flowers growing along the wayside, but she must not stop. She had a job to do, and loathsome as it was, she must see it through. She tried to decide just how to handle the problem. Would it be best to tell the whole sordid story to Mrs. Moffitt? A mother should know of her son's doings, hus stealing. Or would it be best to speak to Chuck himself? What if the mother and the boy met her at the door? My it's a long way to the Moffitt ranch. No wonder Chuck comes late so often, with cattle to feed and cows to milk before he comes. Connie's car rounded a curve in the road, and a hidden valley opened before her. A man on a tractor was plowing in the field. Why it wasn't a man, it was Chuck himself! 'This was his environment, here on his own farm he drank true harmony in the fields he loved. Yes, it was best to put the question to him here 362 and now. He was too much the man to tattle to his mother. His mother's heart must never know the hurt her own had known last night. She stopped the car. Chuck, seeing her, waved, turned off the tractor, shook the dust from his hat, dusted his face with his handkerchief, and walked through the freshly plowed field to the fence, then like a deer sprinted over, and up to her car. "Nice of you to drive up, Mrs. Ziebarth. We don't have much company here in the Cove. Mother would like to have you stay for dinner. I believe she's cooking some friers and rhubarb pie." Connie had steeled herself to speak openly to a seventh grader, but this man of the field, who had invited her to dine at his table, how could she call him a thief to his face? Perhaps the note at the bottom of the page was best after all. "You will stay won't you, Mrs. Ziebarth?" he repeated his invitation. "Chuck Moffitt, you're tempting me!" Connie laughed in spite of herself. She had to admit Chuck was pleasantly interesting. But she must she simply must state her problem. She could not live with it a moment longer. "Chuck, I was reading in a magazine last night. I came upon the peach-tree poem." "You did, Mrs. Ziebarth! You liked it, too, didn't you, Mrs. Ziebarth?" His voice was enthusiastic, with never a trace of guilt. "Chuck, the poem contest was for original poems. Didn't you understand?" "I knew we were supposed to write a poem of our own. 'Teacher RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 gave us some time in class. I could hear the kids all around mumbling about turtle and Myrtle, Mitzy and ritzy, a horse of course, and cats and bats. 'That's not réal poetry, that's jargon. So I just looked out of the window and "thought about how pretty the Cove is, and about beautiful poems I have read, then the time was gone." "Why didn't you take your assignment as homework?" "I did figure to, honest I did, but when I finally finished the chores it was so late, and I was too tired to think." "Chuck, I guess you know signing your name to someone else's poem is a form of stealing.' To look Chuck squarely in the eyes now, was most painful. HUCK looked her squarely in the eyes when he gave his reply. "I didn't sign my name. I didn't say I wrote it. I just handed it in as an assignment, with my name in the upper left-hand corner. 'Teacher said if we didn't hand in a poem by morning, we would get a failing grade in English. I just have to pass. I can't stand seventh grade another year." "When I talked to you yesterday, you said you had a peach tree growing in your yard." "That's the truth, I have a peach tree. It's in bloom, Pll take you up there this very minute." "That isn't necessary. I do believe you, Chuck. You must read lots of poems or you wouldn't appreciate one like the peach-tree poem." "Oh, I like poetry all right, real poetry. I get books from the library. I read Milton's Paradise Lost, and I especially like Scott's PEACH-TREE POEM Lady of the Lake, and Tennyson's Idylls of the King." No wonder this boy was bored with cat and bat rhymes. "Chuck, do you like school?" "Well, I can't say I honestly do, Mrs. Ziebarth, though it's been lots better since you came. 'Those lessons bore me so much. I'm always glad to stay out and work on the farm." "How would you like to be in high school?" "I want to get in high school, but the teacher told me that I probably wouldn't be promoted, I didn't come enough, and didn't pay attention." 363 "Chuck, I think I could arrange for you to take the eighth grade examination this year. If you pass, and I'm sure you will, you could start high school in the fall. Would you like that?" "Would I like it?" Then his face faded. "But what if I don't pass?" "PIl tutor you this summer, and you can take the test again before school starts." "Do you really mean it?" "I really mean it." "Say, you know those first little peaches from my tree, well, they're yours, Mrs. Ziebarth. They will be little peach poems of my own creation." —> Lilac s Yourney Lula Walker She cherished it like miser's gold Across the plains through heat and cold, As wagons wound the tortuous road; Nor tossed it out to ease the load— This lilac root for her new home. She hoped to find some rich dark loam To pamper it. Her faith was strong Though westward trek be cruelly long, That sometime, in her cabin room, She'd catch the scent of lilac bloom. Steadfast she'd hold, keep root alive Against the day they should arrive To set it out, this fragile thing— Reminder of an Eastern spring. Sixt Y Years Ago Excerpts 'rom the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Att NATIONs"' QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY: 'Torrents of rain ushered in Queen Victoria's birthday.... Windsor, where a general holiday is being observed, was decorated with flags and the church bells were rung... A serenade by the Windsor and Eton choral societies was given....