[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Parsons]
She had often told her friends, after losing her husband, that there was nothing like good, hard work to help relieve the tensions that build up inside a person. Having finished her cleaning, Amy began to ice the cake, when she heard a rap at the door. "Why, Dougie, hello there; what are you doing with the cat?" Dougie looked up at her with twinkling blue eyes and a winning little smile that turned Amy's heart. Her son used to look at her like that, and Dougie's hair was blonde and curly as 'Tim's had been. "Tessie was in the road, Mrs. Willis; I thought she would get runned over,' Dougie replied as he gazed curiously into the house. Oh my, Amy thought, the little rascal just wants to come in and look around. But then he is just a little boy. Amy opened the door. "Thank you so much for bringing Tessie back. I surely wouldn't want anything to happen to her. You're a good little boy, Dougie. I guess that I should have you tend Tessie for me, shouldn't I?" Dougie looked past Amy to the table where she had been icing the cake. "Mommy never bakes cakes," Dougie said with his blue eyes twinkling again. "Why, Dougie, would you like to clean out the frosting bowl after I 384 finish icing the cake? Then, Ill cut you a piece of cake, and you can have a glass of milk, okay?" MY recalled how 'Tim had always loved to climb up on the old stool and watch her ice a cake. Chocolate cake had been his favorite. "Chocolate cake is my favorite, Mrs. Willis,' Dougie said, intruding into Amy's thoughts, as he climbed up on the stool by the table. He chatted to Amy about his pet bird, the fact that his Daddy was never coming home any more, and many things which Amy doubted very much that Lullic Jessop would want to be known. Amy couldn't help but smile at herself. If only adults could be as honest and outright as a little child, the world would be a much more pleasant place in which to live. It was so pleasant to have Dougie with her that Amy dreaded to send the little boy home. She would have enjoyed having him spend the day with her so much. "Maybe you had better go home now, Dougie; your Mommy will be worried about you." She helped the little felloy down from the stool and watched him walk assuredly to his home. After Amy had had her lunch she decided to lie down for a few minRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 utes, and when she awoke and went out into the living room, there lying on the couch with Tessie in his arms, both sleeping peacefully. Was Dougie. He stirred slightly, opencd his eyes and smiled at Amy. "IT was tending Tessie for you," he said. Amy smiled back at Dougie and I sat down on the couch beside him. Without warning Dougie suddenly threw his arms about her, saying, "I love you Mrs. Willis, and I want you for my Granny." Tears of happiness welled up in Amy's eyes as she gently held the little boy in her arms. "Of course, Pll be your Granny, Dougie. Now we had better take you home." "Okay, Granny, but Pll come back tomorrow," Dougie assured her as he marched triumphantly out of the house, stopping only long cnough to give Tessie an affectionate pat. Amy had never been happier, as she followed Dougie to the door. Rr4 ° Yes, Dougie, you come back tomorrow; Granny will be waiting."

[The Silver Leash—Chapter 6 by Beatrice Rordame Parsons]

People passing through Applegate would consider it a typical small town, that is, if they bothered to consider it at all. 'Fo Amy Willis, however, it was her town and her people. And Dougie, she thought, had called her Granny! & rratum Recipe For Bortep RAIstn CAKE In the recipe for Boiled Raisin Cake, page 176, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1959, the amount of flour should be 24 cups instead of % cup as printed.