[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hymn of | Author: List]
—> Hymn of the Mlonth—Annual List July 1959 — June 1960 The Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of The Deseret News.. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1950 through June 1960: SS) No. July Savior, Redeemer of My Soul Wutrnry-DEAN 155 August Hail to the Brightness HasTINGs-PaRRY 182 September Oh Hark! A Glorious Sound Rosinson-AsreR 134 Is Heard October Welcome, Welcome Sabbath Bairp-BEESLEY 190 Morning November Stars of Morning, Shout DuruaM 164 for Joy December With Wondering AWE — eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeetseeceeereees 209 1960 January God of Power, God of Right Brnnrert-CANNON 36 February Redeemer of Israel Puevps-Lewis 195 March Truth Eternal PRATT-SCHREINER 189 April Prayer Is the Soul's Sincere MoNTGOMERY-CARELESS 220 Desire May Sing Praise to Him SCHULTZ 158 June Zion Stands With Hills KELLY-SMYTH 212 Page 368 Surrounded More Precious, han Rubies Tlore Precious Shan Rubies VIRTUOUS young man pledges his love and fidelity to the girl of his dreams with a precious stone a diamond. And the happy girl treasures the gift as she would her life, promising, in return, her own fresh, virtuous love in marriage. The ring — with its precious gem — becomes a symbol of fidelity for the engaged couple... And a reminder of the priceless value of virtue in them both. Solomon said it centuries ago: "A virtuous woman... Her price ls far above rubies...." For man it is equally true. Page 369 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 A latter-day hymn writer composed these beautiful lines: Cherish virtue! Cherish virtue! God will bless the pure in heart. Cherish — how beautiful and meaningful the word: to hold dear; to trust or keep with tenderness. And virtue: integrity of character; uprightness of conduct; chastity. The Prophet Mormon, in his last affectionate message to his son Moroni, called virtue and chastity "the most dear and precious of all things." Modern prophets have reaffirmed this eternal truth. So, young people of the Church, if you would deserve the confidence of the clean young man or young woman you someday hope to marry — if you would enjoy the fullness of happiness which belongs only to the pure in heart, be clean, be chaste.