EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Relief Society Nurses' Class will
open in the L. D. S. University Building
on Monday, September seventeenth Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts Instructor, Emma A.
Empey Superintendent, Phebe J. Beatie
Secretary and Treasurer. Circulars hav-
ing been sent out early this year there
should be a large attendance, for it is a
well-known fact that there are not nurses
enough to supply the demand for skilled
help.
	We have at this office “A Brief History
of the Grain Storing by the Women of
Zion” prepared by a Committee appoint-
ed by General President Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith, it is issued in pamphlet form,
and sells single copies 10 cts. or at the
rate of 12 copies for $1.00. It is a brief
resume of the entire work to date, and
contains two letters from the First Presi-
dency of the Church. We have a Primer
of the Peace Movement sent by Lucia
Ames Mead, Chairman of the Woman’s
Peace Movement in the National Council
of Women, and these Primers, and a
larger book Patriotism and the New Inter-
nationalism are sold 25 cts. for the two
or 10 cts. for the Primer, and 25 cts. for
the larger book, if sold separately.
	We are anxious to get the amount given
by the L. D. S. Relief Society in the se-
veral Stakes, and forwarded to the San
Francisco sufferers at the time of the great
calamity that befell that city, through the
earthquake and fire. The secretary would
like to have full account of all from each
Stake to report at the annual Business
meeting of the Society to be held in this
City, Monday October 1, 1906, in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, commencing at 2
p.m. Please send the report to Mrs. E.
B. Wells, General Secretary Relief So-
ciety, Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The semi-annual Conference of the L.
D. S. Relief Society will be held in the


Salt Lake Assembly hall in this city on
Thursday October 5, 1906, commencing
at 10 o’clock and at 2 p. m. as heretofore.
It is desired that each Stake be represent-
ed by one or more of its Stake officers
and that there should be a goodly attend-
ance of members of this large and flourish-
ing organization. We are hopeful of the
largest Conference that has ever been
held. A cordial invitation is always ex-
tended to those interested in womens’
organizations to come and hear the teach-
ings given at these general Conferences
of this prosperous Society that aims to
bless and elevate all connected there with,
in this and other lands.


