	“Mlle. Monod. president of the French
Council, then called for a few words from
the representative of India, and Madame
Rustem Cama of Bombay, in picturesque
East Indian garb, in a charmingly simple
and at the same time dignified manner,
said, in English: ‘I feel that the one thing
we all ought to work for is to get the right
of suffrage for women. In my own coun-
try we are under foreign rule, and neither
men nor women can vote. We have had,
for the last twenty-one years, a large po-
litical union, and in it men and women
both are delegates. We want the right
of suffrage for women as well as men, for
we have seen, in all countries where men
are freed first and leave the women be-
hind, that it then takes many generations
to bring the women up to an equality with
the men. So we in India have started to-
gether. We want justice for women, and
the right to vote.’
	“The men of Finland, even when their
own rights hung in the balance, were wil-
ling to demand equality of rights for their
countrywomen, and thousands of East In-
dian men associate women with them in
their work for political recognition, and
ask that the women shall come with men
into the kingdom of political freedom.
	“Think of that, American men, who
claim to regard American women so high-
ly, yet are willing to allow your mothers
and sisters to be classed politically with
idiots and criminals!”


[Column 1]
		NEWS ABOUT WOMEN.
	A new line of work is opening for trained
nurses. Many of the big transatlantic
liners are now carrying a pair of trained
nurses on each trip, and it is said that
they make such a good thing out of it that
others are sure to follow.		Ex.
	The international conference in Den-
mark, if it accomplishes nothing else, will
open the eyes of Europeans to the aggres-
sive nature of the movement to give to
women a legal, political, educational and
social statuts equal to that of men. The
time has gone by to deride that move-
ment. In spite of numerous defeats, it is
surely gaining ground.—Anaconda (Mont.)
Standard.
	The large number of Whitehall women
who went to the polls yesterday and re-
gistered their choice for school trustees
was a step forward and an advance in ci-
vilization. It forcibly reminds us that the
time is coming when woman will be al-
lowed the use of the ballot at any elec-
tion, and that she is step by step severing
the disfranchisement which an unfair cus-
tom has thrown around her.—Whitehall
(N. Y.) Times.
	In the State of Washington, the hus-
band still has the legal right to will the
children away from their mother. He
can thus bequeath even a child that is un-
born at the time of the father’s death.

[Column 2]
Less than three years ago a husband willed
an unborn baby away from its mother,
because his religious belief differed from
hers, and the child was taken from her
arms at two weeks old. Nor is this law a
relic of barbarism handed down from the
remote past. It was enacted in 1896. Yet
the opponents of equal rights assure us
that the laws are “more than just to
women.”					Ex.
	We had the pleasure, of meeting Lady
Laurier and her distinguished husband
when they visited Salt Lake City about
two years ago, and as many of our people
reside in Canada, we are very glad to
know that Lady Laurier favors woman’s
speaking in public, and has herself opened
the way in the British domain, according
to the following note which appeared in
one of our exchanges.
	“Lady Laurier, the wife of the Premier,
is the only woman who has delivered a
speech in the Canadian House of Parlia-
ment. She was discovered at a reception
at the foot of the throne, and at once a
demand was made for a speech. She was
at first abashed, but ascended the steps
and made what was described as “a pretty
oration.”
	The Czar has signed Finland’s Woman’s
Suffrage bill. This is a great victory for
the women of that little island. Baroness
Alexandra Gripenberg gave a most inter-
esting account of the causes that led to
the recent victory of equal suffrage in that
country, and now that the Czar has signed
the bill it is indeed a triumph. The Ba-
roness has been long associated with the
International Council of Women, and has
been an active worker for the political
freedom of the women of her native land.
She was a representative of Finland at
the Congress of Women at the Columbian
Exposition in Chicago in 1893.


