WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	21


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				II.

	Saturday morning, June 19, 1880, Presi-
dent John Taylor, at that time President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, met with the sisters in the
Salt Lake Stake Conference in the As-
sembly Hall, in this city, and after ad-
dressing the cengregation for a few min-
minutes, mentioned he had brought with
him the book called “The Law of the
Lord,” and requested Brother L. John
Nuttall to read from the book. Brother
Nuttall then read concerning the organi-
zation of the Relief Society in the Lodge
Room, Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
when Mrs. Emma Smith was appointed
president, and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleyeland
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney her coun-
selors.
	After Brother Nuttall had finished read-
ing as directed, President Taylor made
explanatory remarks concerning the or-
ganization and the powers and duties it
gave to women. He stated that Emma
Smith had been previously ordained to
expound the Scriptures, probably by the
Prophet Joseph himself, but he did not
know, however he (President Taylor) said
he was present at that time and was
called upon by Brother Joseph to ordain
Sisters Cleveland and Whitney, Emma’s
counselors. It was then moved and sec-
onded that President Taylor publicly ap-
point Sister Eliza R. Snow president of
all the Relief Society. President Taylor
stated that Sister Eliza had been secre-
tary of the first organization of Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and he then nominat-
ed her for president, and she was sus-
tained by the conference.
	Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors, who were then nominat-
ed by President Taylor and sustained by
the conference. Also, Sister Sarah M.
Kimball, secretary, and Sister M. Isabella
Horne, treasurer. It was then stated
that those sisters form a central organiza-
tion for all the Relief Society of all the
stakes and missions of Zion.
	At a meeting of the Senior Retrench-
ment Association held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms, Saturday, July 17, 1880,
President Taylor came according to prom-
ise previously made, and being invited to
address the sisters said, “I was not aware
until last evening of this, meeting, at least
I had forgotten it, and had arranged to
leave the city this afternoon, going north
to attend meetings at Ogden. I under-
stand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Re-
lief Society that were elected at your con-
ference held on Saturday, June 19, 1880,
at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.” Presi-
dent Taylor in his remarks repeated in
substance what he had said at the confer-
ence previously held on June 19th, and
also said, “As I stated at that time I was

[Column 2]
called upon by the Prophet Joseph and
did then ordain Sisters Whitney and
Cleveland, and blessed Sister Emma and
set her apart. I could not ordain these
sisters to anything more or to greater
powers than had been conferred upon
Sister Emma, who had previously been
ordained to expound the Scriptures, and
Joseph said at that time, that being an
elect lady had its significance, and that
the revelation was then fulfilled in Sister
Emma being thus elected to preside over
the Relief Society.”
	President Taylor set apart the Relief
Society officers as follows:
	‘‘Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my
hand upon your head in the name of
Jesus, and by the authority of the Holy
Priesthood, I set thee apart to preside
over the Relief Society in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I
confer on thee power and authority, and
ordain thee to this office that thou mayest
have power to expound the Scriptures
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity and zeal
in the interest of thy sisters. He has
blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever,and I
bless thee with all thine heart my desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all
former blessings conferred upon thee by
the Holy Priesthood, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	“Zina Diantha Young Smith, I lay my
hand upon thee in the name of Jesus and
by the authority of the Holy Priesthood,
and ordain thee to be First Counselor to
Eliza R. Snow. Honor thy calling which
is an honorable one, sustain and assist
thy president and thou shalt have joy in
thy labors; thou shalt be a wise counsel-
or; the Lord is well pleased with thee
and will sustain thee, and no man shall
deprive thee of thy blessings; thou shalt
have the gift to heal the sick, and thou
shalt be blessed in time and in eternity;
in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Elizabeth Ann Smith Whitney, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the
virtue of my office and calling in the
Holy Priesthood, I bless thee and set thee
apart to be Second Counselor to Eliza R.
Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee
and thou shalt be blessed in thine old age;
and thy name shall be honored through
all generations. Thy heart shall be filled
with peace and joy, and thou shalt be a
wise counselor in thine old age. Thou
shalt continue to be esteemed as a moth-
er in Israel, and thou shalt continue to
be blessed as thou has been; and when
thou shalt have finished thy labors, thou
shalt have a place in the celestial king-
dom of God with thine husband. Thou
shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this office and
calling, in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by
virtue of the Holy Priesthood, I set thee
apart to the office of Secretary of the
Relief Society of Zion; to record im-
portant events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a
ready writer. Seek more earnestly for
the Spirit of the Lord, and thou shalt be
blessed more than thou hast ever had
power to conceive of. As thou hast been
preserved in life, thou shalt contine to be
preserved. I seal upon thee thy former

[Column 3]
blessings, and thou shalt be honored in
time and in eternity, and have a seat in
the celestial kingdom of God, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President Taylor then said, “God bless
the Treasurer, Sister Horne, and bless
her with every blessing that her heart de-
sires in righteousness, and Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith, and God bless all the faithful
who love Israel and keep God’s com-
mandments, do this and every promise
heretofore made you shall be fulfilled,
and more than now has entered into
your hearts to conceive of.”
	The President then took his leave to
go by afternoon train to Ogden.
	As this was a most extraordinary meet-
ing it certainly should be recorded in
chronological order in connection with
other important facts.
	This was the first general organization.
It will be noticed the others were wards
and stakes, and as Sister Eliza R. Snow
expressed it there was a body but no
head.
	According to the best information ob-
tainable there were twenty stakes organiz-
ed in a Relief Society capacity when the
Central organization was effected by Pre-
sident John Taylor.
	The Eastern Arizona Stake comprised
all the branches of the Society that had
been organized in wards in that Territory
up to that date. That Stake was organiz-
ed about one week after the General So-
ciety officers were appointed.
	Cache Stake which was organized May
19, 1878, should have come in the first
Chronicle but the date was in doubt until
after the paper containing the article was
issued.
	At the Jubilee Conference of the Church
which was celebrated in April 1880 fifty
years after its organization, the women of
this Society had a conspicuous part in the
offerings made to the poor. They gavethe
wheat that they had stored in granaries
and held in reserve for emergencies, and
against a day of famine, to the farmers for
seed; it was a free-will offering pure and
simple, and the sisters were first asked to
vote separately on this question. The
brethren gave of the Church cattle one
thousand cows and five thousand sheep
to widows and the destitute, and half the
debt due to the Perpetual Emigration
Fund was also canceled. These things
made it a memorable Conference in his-
tory, not so much a time of celebrating,
but more a solemn assembly though all
rejoiced in the growth and increase of the
work of the Lord, in the first half century
after its establishment in these last days.
	On the 24th of July following this Ju-
bilee Conference there was a Jubilee ce-
lebration. This was just about a month
after the appointment of the General of-
ficers of the Relief Society, and the event
was then elaborately and appropriately
celebrated, and the Society had the pri-
vilege and pleasure of participating in the
exercises and in the grand street parade
in the City,
	A very large banner was made of home-
spun silk and handsomely embroideaed in
colors. The name of the Society and the
date of its organization, helped to make
the banner quite a historical feature. The
banner is really an expensive one and is
only displayed on great occasions. The
Relief Society at that time the represen-
tative organization of all the sisters was
notified that “A Sentiment From The


[Column 1]
Women Of Utah” was desired among the
exercises. Sister Eliza R. Snow the Presi-
dent selected Sister Emmeline B. Wells
to prepare and read the “Address” for the
women of Utah on that occasion.
	The first report statistical and financial
given of the General Society was at the
April Conference in 1881, and included
Bear Lake, Box Elder, Davis, Juab,
Kanab, Millard, Morgan, Parowan, Salt
Lake, St. George, Sevier, Summit, Tooele,
Utah, and Weber.
	Those Stakes organized that were not
reported were Beaver, Cache, Eastern
Arizona, Panguitch, Wasatch and Little
Colorado. Little Colorado had been or-
ganized since the General officers were
appointed and made twenty one in all,
only fifteen reported.
	Statistical—Total membership 12,288.
Meetings held 1,532. Average attendance,
3,884.
	Financial—On Hand in the several
wards and Stakes one year previous,cash
$3,342.21 cts. Property $24 099.23 cts.
Wheat 9 859 bushels. Reecipts during
the year, cash $3 468.31 cts. Property
$3,513 20 cts. Wheat 670 bushels.
	Disbursements—To the poor $3,468.31
cts. Emigration $210.43 cts. Temples
$1,214.11 cts. Home industries $689.97 cts.
Books $143.13 cts. Missionary $98.70 cts.
Buildings $1,617.47 cts. Indians $66.75 cts.
	Totals on hand cash, property and
wheat $36,822.34 cts.
	President George Q. Cannon passed a
high encomium on the neat and compre-
hensive report the ladies had presented
and the good of the Relief Society and felt
the work should be appreciated by the
people.
	Sandwich Islands, This mission was not
behind in organizing branches of the Re-
lief Society among the sisters in different
parts of the Islands. In a communication
received from there Sister Margaret Cluff
stated at the October Conference held at
Laie, 1879 she had been chosen to take
the Superintendency of all the branches
of the Society in these islands and that
Sisters Sarah Dean, Nellie Alexander and
Gundy Anderson and two native sisters
Kaahamie and Kealohamie were chosen
to assist her in that capacity. These sist-
ers made a tour around to the islands in
the little steamer James McKee. The two
native sisters were not able to accompany
them on account of having small children.
This organization was formed previous to
the appointment of Sister Eliza R Snow
and her assistants; during this visit they
organized in some places where there was
no Society. The Relief Society in the
Sandwich Island mission has always kept
up in complete reports of its work annu-
ally and it has been considered one of the
strongest and best in the Church.
	In a letter to the Secretary, Sarah M.
Kimball from Elder T. C. Griggs he sends
a sort of summary of the Relief Society
in the London Conference, stating there
were three branches. The White Chapel
branch organized March 7, 1879 Elizabeth
Young President, Susan Whitpen and
Susan Waterfall, Counselors, Eliza James,
Secretary.
	The North London branch organized
February 1875. President Avis Cross,
Frances Cornell and Mrs. Frankland,
Counselors, Lovina Cross, Secretary and
Angie Cross, Treasurer. 
	Lambeth branch organized January 9,
1877. President Mrs. Beeching, Emma

[Column 2]
Brown and Emily Ryan Counselors,
Nellie Armitage, Secretary, Jane Hill,
Treasurer.
	Elder Griggs wrote “I send as an item
of interest the first minutes recorded in
the White Chapel Society record; he then
states this Society was organized by Pre-
sident R. T. Burton of the London Con-
ference.
	The next Relief Society organized
abroad was in Liverpool England De
cember 29, 1879 Elder Wm. Budge, Pre-
sident of the European Mission and Elder
James L. Bunting, President of the Liver-
pool Conference were present. Mrs. E.
F. Johnson was elected President, Mrs.
Bennett and Mrs. Scott Anderson, Coun-
selors. Mary Jane Anderson Secretary.
These sisters were then set apart for their
labors. This report for the first year was
a very good one, they had held weekly
meetings, had visited all members, and
distributed tracts from house to house in
their vicinity and taken care of the sick
and poor. The report was signed by the
President and Secretary.
	The Canterbury Relief Society in the
island of New Zealand was organized in
November 1879. Elder N. H. Groesbeck
was present at the meeting reported to
the writer of this article which was signed
by Johanna Larson President and Elida
Larson, Secretary.


