THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE.
	These are days of travel; journeying
to and fro, and seeking new places, new
faces, new amusements, and in fact al-
most anything in the way of diversity.
There seems to be no longer any real
tranquility or restfulness. Activity at the
present time is the attitude of the world
and its inhabitants. The world moves,
we are quite sure of that, and even
the earth itself is not quiet, as we have
abundant testimony of late, "earthquakes
in divers places," and volcanoes are a part
of the incesant activity that is apparent
in this war of elements that is being
waged here below, and that is increasing
a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty
prevailing in the world, and especially
with those of little or no positive faith.
	The old-fashioned homes exist no lon-
ger; one would imagine houses were
not built for people to live in permanent-
ly; at any rate, not from generation to
generation, an abiding place for the chil-
dren to inherit. Traveling here and
there, shutting up the house and going
abroad, is one of the fashions, and one
might say, in many instances one of the
follies of the age.
	This year particularly, people have
gone away on summer vacations, more
than ever before in this part of the world;
and judging by the number of tourists
and strangers that come within the
gates of this city, it is so elsewhere. Uni-
versal commotion prevails, and this
state of things is not conducive to health
or comfort; at any rate not to "all the
comforts of a home." To what does this
tend, and how has it been brought about?
These are problems that present them-
selves to the thoughtful individual. Pos-
sibly it is due to the great increase of
wealth through mines and commercial
values.
	Deceive ourselves as we may, these
conditions are not good for the rising
generation. It is not a healthy atmos-
phere to raise children in; and if our chil-
dren are not physically and morally
strong, what then? What will avail the
accumulation of wealth. There are many
causes for all these changes in the way
of living, and doubtless many forces
working unseen that one is not aware of,
as these are days of "new thought" and
higher living. Simplicity has gone out of
fashion and real, homely, home-making is
almost a lost art in the present day. Ev-
erybody travels we hear flippantly stated,

[Column 2]

as though it was the most common-place
thing imaginable. But there must be
money to travel with, if one goes here
and there, and somebody sacrifices un-
doubtedly to procure this money so lav-
ishly expended.
	Every man has not made a fortune in 
mines, or even in business, and although
things cost less than formerly, they are
not as substantially made, neither do
they last as long or wear as well. We
will agree, most of us at any rate, that
this is an extravagant age, and the ten-
dency in that direction is startling, to say
the least,
	Too much of this sort of thing tends to
ruin. The mad race for pleasure in the
way of amusements, such as theatres,
operas, and worst of all, the various
"sports" that were frowned down wholly
by our progenitors, not so many hundred
years ago, are held to be respectable by
the general public. If this were even so
(which the writer does not countenance
or think it in the interest of morality), the
company that young people are thrown
among in such places has an evil effect,
the contagion is in the very atmosphere
and surroundings of the places where
these "fast people" congregate who in-
dulge in what may well be termed "games
of chance;" although many respectable,
moral and educated people do coun-
tenance them, and at any rate speak
lightly of the matter, if they do not par-
ticipate in them.
	The season's pleasure grounds and re-
sorts have been overwhelmingly crowded
this year, and the effect upon the young
people especially, cannot be uplifting, so
much hilarity and in many instances up-
roariousness is injurious to both body and 
soul.
	Surely Latter-day Saints will use their
utmost influence to keep their children
from such extremes of gaiety and fashion.
As a people, the Latter-day Saints have
always been moderate. Moderation in
dress and in living has been one of the
virtues with which they are accredited,
even by their enemies.
	Home-making and colonizing, subdu-
ing the waste places is a part of the mis-
sion assigned them, and one which the
fathers and mothers of the present gen-
eration have been faithful in accomplish-
ing. It is to be hoped that owning one's
own home will still be the ambition of our
children. The scriptures deal much with
inheritances, and the pioneers in coming to
these mountain vales established homes
on a permanent basis. It has been the
laudable pride of this people to own
their homes and make them neat with
flowers and trees and furnishings, such as
tend to comfort and true happiness.
	But the custom now of building hotels,
flats and rooming houses, such as are the
fashion in very large cities where land is
expensive, seems to be growing here.
There is room enough in this great west-
ern land for all the children of Zion, to
have homes of their own and to make
them really abiding places. Children
reared even in very lowly homes invari-
ably turn to the home of childhood in
after years as the dearest spot on earth.
Home life is the haven of rest to the wea-
ry toiler; and however far one may wan-
der in search of wealth or pleasure, or on
business bent, or on missions for the Gos-
pel, instinctively the heart yearns for the 
home, be it cottage or mansion.

[Column 3]

	Above all, our sisters should encourage
home making, and use their utmost influ-
ence to keep the home sacred from all
influences that would tend to mar its sanc-
tity. It should be a house of prayer, of
peace, of unity, and all that is holy and
uplifting in spirit and in reality.


