		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Pioneer Stake Relief
Society Conference, held July 13, 1906,
in the Stake Hall. After the opening ex-
ercises, reports from the various wards
were given. President Annie W. Cannon
expressed her pleasure in meeting with
the sisters and was gratified in hearing
reports from all the wards.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth of the General Board
were present, and after all business had
been attended to, Sister Wilcox addressed
us; words of love and instruction were
conveyed and all enjoyed the Spirit of
the Lord that accompanied the words of
the speaker.


President A. W. Cannon explained
about our Mothers’ Work for the benefit
of our visitors, and made closing remarks
—meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.

	Afternoon session. President Annie W.
Cannon presiding. After the opening ex-
ercises, Sister Pettit gave a brief report
of the branches throughout the stake,and
closed her remarks with a blessing on all
Relief Society workers.
	Sister Gertrude Sampson, secretary of
the Seventh Ward Relief Society gave a
talk on “Patriotism.” Reference was
made to our people when they responded
so nobly to the calls that were made in
early days in the valley. “Our Father has
said we must serve Him with our might
mind and will, and in obeying the com-
mandments which he has given us we are
patriotic to the laws of the land.”
	Sister Farnsworth said this was her
first visit to us, and she had enjoyed
hearing the reports and also Sister Samp-
son’s talk on patriotism; referred to the
noble response made by the sisters of
Pioneer Stake when the call was made
for aid in behalf of the California suffer-
ers; was much pleased to know we were
gathering grain; urged the sisters to send
able women to the Nurses’ Class, and
hoped we would continue to sustain our
President and her counselors; prayed that
the time should come when we should
stand at the head of all women in the
world, and that we might ever be blessed
in our work. Amen.
	The officers and General Board of
the Relief Society and officers and mis-
sionaries of Pioneer Stake Relief Society
were read and unanimously sustained by
by vote. Mrs. Eva Richardson rendered
a piano solo very beautifully.
	President William McLachlan desired
the Spirit of the Lord to rest down upon
him while he addressed us.  “The work
of the priesthood is to fill missions where-
by they obtain testimonies. The sisters
may gain testimonies by their faithful
work in the Relief Society.” Urged us
to put all hatred out of our hearts, and
cultivate a feeling of love one for anoth-
er. The necessity of observing the Sab-
bath day and keeping it Holy was forcibly
told. When the Lord speaks He de-
mands our attention. Let us give it and
He will bless us.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert gave a brief
outline of her recent travels abroad; was
very proud of our young men who are in
the mission field; reminded the young
mothers that they had a great mission to
fill in properly rearing their children.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon regretted
she was unable to attend our morning
meeting but had enjoyed what she had
heard greatly; agreed with previous
speakers that great responsibility rested
on mothers; but thought quite as much
depended on fathers if they did their
duty; prayed for all who were interested
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon reminded
the sisters that on the 19th of July the
four stakes were to go to Saltair. Hoped
for a good attendance.
	Conference adjourned until December
9th, 1906; singing “Come, Come Ye
Saints;” benediction by Sister Pettit.
	CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
	Secretary.
