		OBITUARY AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	A most distressing calamity occurred in the fam-
ily of President W. Lunt, when the wife and
mother was summoned by the messenger of death.
Sister Lunt pave birth to a pair of twins on the
morning of July 24. Unfortunately she was on
her mountain ranch when the illness came, and
in only one short hour her spirit took its flight.
	All was done for this dear sister that could be
done under the circumstances. Her remains were
brought to town on the evening of the 24th, which
cast a gloom over the entire community, as she
was loved for her kind and gentle disposition. She
was a faithful wife, a loving mother, and a good
kind friend to all who were brought in contact
with her.
	Mrs. Catherine Gib[-]on Lunt was born Decem-
ber 13. 186[-], was the daughter of David and
Ca[-]her neGranger Gibson, She leaves a husband,
eight children, and a mother, besides a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	We, the sisters of the Cedar City Relief Society
convened and resolved:
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call her from us, that her husband has lost a
faithful wife, her children a loving mother, and
her mother a dutiful daughter.
	Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter and faithful friend and member of our Relief
Society.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and pray our Hea-
enly Father to let the comforting influence of his
Holy Sp rit lead them in the path of truth and
righteousness that they may meet their dear mo’h-
er in the great hereafter.
	Resolved, that a copy of the resolutions be
placed in the Record that one be sent to the fam-
ily, and that one be sent to the Woman's Exponent
for publication.
	AMY W. LEIGH, Sec’y Cedar City R S.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Caro-
line Skousen DeWitt, daughter of Patriarch James
N. and Mary Cecil Skousen and wife of Abel A.
De Witt, who departed this life, February 18,
1906, at Eager, Apache Co., Arizona.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His alw'se
providence has seen fit to call from our midst our
beloved sister, Caroline De Witt, secretary and
treasurer for many years of the Relief Society of
the Eager Ward in the St. John’s Stake,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death, an
able, efficient and devoted saint and au earnest
worker in our Relief Society.
	Resolved that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with her bereaved husband, children rel-
atives and friends.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and re-
gard her many virtues as worthy of imitation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record, also that copies be furnished
the bereaved family, and the Exponent for pub-
lication.
	Nettie Hunt Rencher, Selina Brown, commit-
tee.


The convention (at Copenhagen) shows
that the movement is more widespread
than most people suspect from the talk
one hears of equal suffrage, in this
country, where the movement receives
but indifferent recognition from the gen-
eral public. That it is destined to grow
everywhere seems certain.—Lancaster
(Pa.)


