		WAYNE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held at Loa, July 14,
1906. President Bathsheba W. Grundy
presiding. Besides the Stake officers of
the Relief Society, there were present on
the stand The Stake Presidency and Sist-
ers Ellis R. Shipp, MD. and Priscilla Smith
from General Society. After the usual
opening exercises President Grundy wel-
comed those present and told some of the
conditions of the branches in the stake.
Felt they were a noble band of sisters in
Wayne Stake and looked after the poor
and needy and were trying to do their
duty. Most of the wards had a represen-
tative present and all reported favorably.
	The Conference was addressed by Sist-
ers Shipp and Smith. Presidents Bastian,
Eckersley and Stewart and Patriarch
Blackburn, besides others of the brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Priscilla Smith spoke on the duties
of Relief Society workers. We were to
look after the needy that none might suf-
fer. We should also store our minds with
useful knowledge, and be able to teach
the principles of the Gospel. Encouraged
the sisters to take up mothers work, and
told of the great benefit it would be.
Quoted from President Smith in regard to
mothers keeping the word of wisdom, that
their children might follow their example.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp made some very
interesting and timely remarks. Said that
the Latter-day Saints had always been in
the lead. That when the Relief Society
was organized the Prophet Joseph said,
the key was turned for suffering women,
as the Relief Society was the first organ-
ization of women on the earth. Thought
we hardly appreciated our surroundings
and the gospel, that every thing good,
true and beautiful belonged to the Gospel,
and we should not forget the Giver of our
blessings. Spoke on the Word of Wisdom
and the necessity of mothers teachiug it
to their children and said that in keeping
it the Angel of death might pass them by.
Advised mothers to keep a smiling face,
and their homes would be happy always,
and love the ruling power; alluded to the
power of prayer, and of placing our trust
in our heavenly Father, and He would
sustain us in all of our trials.
	During the noon hour dinner was prep-
ared and tables set, by the sisters of the
Loa Society, in one room of the building,
for every one present at the Conference.
	The tables were loaded with the good
things of life, and all seemed to do ample
justice to the same. Good Cheer and hand
shaking, was one of the principal features,
and a splendid good time was the result.
In fact all voted it one of the best and
most successful Relief Society Conferen-
ces ever held in Wayne Stake; and all left
with a desire in their hearts to continue
in well doing, serve the Lord and keep
His commandments, that they might have 
his spirit to be with them always.
				ORILLA SHEFFIELD
								Secretary.
					Secretary.

