WOMAN’S VOICE.
My Dear Sister:—
	In response to your kind note of May
25th I felt that I must take time to tell
you of our latest movements as Relief
Society workers, in this stake; I believe


in all the wards the sisters are doing fair-
ly well, in the larger towns particularly
so. In the Parowan ward the Relief So-
ciety is making a mighty effort to build
themselves a commodious and respectable
building; we have purchased a building
spot, and last evening closed the contract
for one hundred thousand brick, which
are to be ready by the last of July. Next
Sunday at 2 p. m. we hold our conference
at Cedar City, we do not expect a repres-
entative of the General Board this time,
but at the best convenience of all will
call special meetings for our visitors.
Our Mothers work has given the hap-
piest results, beside attracting, the organ-
ization seems to be toned up, and is re-
garded as an institution of greater impor-
tance. On Thursday a sister will lecture
on Self Improvement, and I am to treat
upon the subject of “The higher ideals of
the home.”
	We held our Peace meetings May 27th,
were satisfied with the results; at Cedar
City I hear the meeting was one ever to
be remembered. Prof. Maybe of the
B. N. S. was the chief speaker and his
hearers were enrapt with his soul stirring
eloquence, and thoroughly endorsed his
plea for peace.
	Tomorrow our ward president, sister
S A. Adams with three of her daughters
leave for a three weeks trip to Los An-
geles, sister Mary A. Smith Wimmer (the
first counselor) is very poorly and is go-
ing to visit Salt Lake City, that she may
go to the temple and be baptized for her
health, I do hope she can go, she is a
noble character and has been called upon
to suffer much.
	Bishop Richards just stepped in, I de-
livered your kind message, he wishes to
be kindly remembered and prays that you
may have good health; Sister Adams said
she would write you: at our meeting on
Thursday and Sunday I will give your
loving sentiments to the sisters. I ap-
preciate your sisterly wishes for me and
mine, I feel we need to support each other
in this way, it gives us greater strength
and encouragement.
	I am very busy in many ways, but I
have enjoyed this indulgence of a pen chat
with you.
	May the best gifts of our Father’s be
yours,
		Lovingly,
			E. CRANE WATSON.
July 9, 1906.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		“He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer departed this life July
3rd, 1906, aged 72 years, at Cannonville, Utah.
She was the wife of George Spencer, who de-
parted this life 1872. She was the mother of nine
children, four only survive her. Among them is
her oldest daughter, Emily, who married Prof.
Miles, now of Idaho, and Julia, who married Wil-
ford Woodruff, Jun, oldest son of the late Presi-
dent Woodruff, she died some years ago.
	The last years of her l[-]fe were sp[-]nt at Cannon-
ville, where she was an earnest worker in the
Sunday School, also secretary for the Relief
Society. She was beloved by all the sisters of the
society, and is greatly missed. She possessed the
gift of po try, and wrote many verses, most of
which have been published She was very strict
in keeping the Word of Wisdom, using neither
pork nor drinking hot drink-: she was widely
known in Southern Utah. Her nature was angelic
and especially to those that were cast down; her
religion was to her the dearest thing of her life;

[Column 2]
she retained her bright and noble mind to her
death; her memory was remarkable, also her eye-
sight, never using spectacles; she was one of the
most remarkable of women; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, and her light
will shine before her children both in time and
eternity. Her genial disposition won for her the
love of all with whom she was associated; God
grant that all may strive to emulate her.
				LETITIA M. SPENCER.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Almighty in His unbounded and
infinite wisdom has s[-]en fit to take from our midst
our beloved sster, Amanda Stowell Butler, who
was Pres[-]dent of the Trenton Relief Society, for
twelve years, from July, 1894, until February,
1905, when she was honorably released on account
of the sickness which ended in her death; and
	Whereas, she has ever been a faithful worker in
the Lord’s vineyard, a minister to the poor, the
needy and the suffering, now, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers of the Trenton
Relief Society of the Benson Stake of Zion do ex-
tend to the family our sincere sympathy, and
pray that they will follow and emulate the ex-
ample of their noble and beloved one; and be it
further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
recorded in the Trenton Relief Society Record,
and that a copy also be sent to each member of
the family.
	Mary B. Bingham. Margaret Benson, Mary Ann
Rawlins, Presidency of the Trenton Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Louise Eddins Hales, wife of our esteemed
and veteran citizen George Hales, departed this
life on Tuesday, April 17, of general debility and
old age. She was born at Cradley, Herefordshire,
England, June 1st, 1834, arriving at Nauvoo the
same year. Here the family remained until the
exodus from that city in 1846. They remained in
Florence, Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they proceeded on their journey,
reaching Salt Lake the same year.
	Mrs. Hales was married to George Hales about
1852, since which time she has been a resident of
Beaver. Sister Hales has endured many trials
and priv[-]tious since the early settlement of Utah,
and has ever remained true to the faith she
espoused; she was a kind and loving wife, a de-
voted mother and a good citizen. She was the
mother of eleven children, five of whom survive
her, she has twenty-four grandchildren and six
great grandchildren living.
	Funeral services were held in the L. D. S.
chapel, Thursday 19th inst. at which consoling re-
marks eulogistic of the life and character of the
deceased were made by Elders John Lang, George
Pace and R Maeser.—Beaver Weekly Press.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Annie
M. Rouche by the Relief Society of the Melville
Ward
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our beloved sis-
ter. and
	Whereas, the members of this association do
feel a personal loss in the death of our beloved
secretary, Annie M. Rouche, and regret that she
should be called home so soon.
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and as beau-
tiful as was her living, as she honored God, hon-
ored His holy priesthood, and so honored herself
and enjoyed to the fullest degree the spirit of her
ca ling, so frail, and yet so powerful in defence
of right, therefore be it
	Resolved that we strive to emulate her unwaver-
ing faith, her fidelity to purity and truth and her
devoti n o her home and religious duties and her
humi ity and respect and obedience to proper
au hority.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympa-
thy and love to the bereft husband and children
and all other dear ones and sincerely pray our
Heavenly Father that He will fill their wounded
souls with the comforting influence of His Holy
Spirit that they may realize that she has only
gone before to enjoy the rest and reward of a
well sp[-]nt life That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the esteemed husband one to be sent
to the son “Les” who is fulfilling a mission in
New Zealand, one to the Womans Exponent and
one to be placed on our record.
	One less at home The charmed circle broken.
A dear face missed day by day from its accus-
tomed place. But purified and perfected by grace,
one more in heaven.
	President E. A. Farr, Counselors A. P. Ander-
son and M. A. Anderson, Assistant Secretary
Olive Scott.


