JOURNEY ACROSS THE SEA AND PLAINS.

It is just fifty years ago today,
	Since we left home and native land,
To gather to Zion and to obey
	The true and Latter-day command.

In company with my Sa[-]nted mother,
	Three sisters and a little brother,
Six weeks in a sailing vessel we came,
	The good ship Thornton was its name.

	It was a rough voyage; we had a terrible storm,
but we felt that God was at the helm and we were 
safe in His care. 

When we arrived at the New York shore,
	We were thankful to see land once more.
Thence we traveled by train to Iowa;
	And six weeks there we had to stay,
Until they fixed the hand-cart train;
	So we could start to cross the plain.
Ah me! how much to us that word con-
		tain,
	The great and dreary desert plains.

	It was the fifteenth day of July before we could
start upon our overland journey; and for five 
weeks we traveled on without cessation.

Never even stopp’d for rest on Sunday,
	We were in the buffalo country.
Most of our cattle stampeded one night,
	Leaving us in a dreadful plight.

	For five days the men were out searching for 
them, but it was of no use, they were lost indeed,
and it was beyond our power to recover them. 

It was of no use, men searched in vain,
	And then the camp marched on again,
But afterwards our good Captain Willey thought
	We’d keep the Sabbath as we ought.

	The few cattle that remained were yoked up
with the cows, and every handcart carried an
extra hundred pounds of flour, but our rations
fell short.

To these Pilgrims cold and hunger came,
	But we travel’d on just the same,
Strong men failed, for it was very hard
	To walk all day, and at night stand guard.
Many died martyrs, but they are all right,
	Bravely and well they fought the good fight,
God will remember them; I know what I say,
	They’ll come forth in the Resurrection day.
I remember one day, feeling so sad—
Mother was sick, and look[-]d very bad,
Others were dying, and she might die too,
	And I wondered, if so, what we would do;
I wept at the thought, she saw me and said
	“Dinna greet, but pray to him overhead, 
Who tempers the wind, to the shorn lamb;
	I’ve prayed and I’ve promised to never com-
		plain,
Whatever the trials we have to pass through,
	If our lives are spared we’ll be faithful and
		true.”
She kept her word and my eldest brother,
	Robert A. Bain, met us at Green river,
With teams and supplies, and no mo[-]e starv-
		ing. 
Mother could lie down and rest herself, saying,
	“I’m thankful as if in the kingdom of
		heav’n.”
We arrived safe the last of November, 
	A day of rejoicing that we all remember.
Four now have passed over to the other side. 
	Faithful and true they lived and they died.
Boys, this is the path your mother has trod
	I pray you hold fast to “the iron rod,”
And follow the path that will lead you to God,
No earthly riches can ever compare
	To the reward reserved for the faithful
What joy and rejoicing when we get where
	Our loved ones and all the righteous dwell,
And as the song says, in my heart I say,
	“The trials of the road will be as nought,
When we get to the end of the way,”
	And partake of the blessings they’ve brought.
			BETSY SMITH GOODWIN.
Beaver, Utah, May 2, 1906.


