AN INTERESTING ENTERTA1NNENT.

	On Saturday evening, August 25th,
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave a few of her
friends the pleasure of listening to a ren-
dition of her travels through the Holy
Land; it was a rare occasion; but few
women could have given verbally in such
a delightful way so good a description of
the historic land over which she journeyed
together with the sea-voyage on the
Mediterranean as this speaker did, with-
out references or notes.
	The handsome parlors were softly
lighted seemingly in keeping with the
dreamy oriental style, which was quite
effective.
	After the guests had assembled, the
dining room doors were thrown open and
the hostess led the way to the table.
President Anthon H. Lund, the most
distinguished gentleman present, was
seated at the head of the table, and was
asked to pronounce the blessing.
	The table presented an elegant appear-
ance in its snow white linen, delicate
china, cut glass and silverware. The
repast was delicious and beautifully served
the hostess being assisted by her daughter
Miss May Alder. After partaking of the
sumptuous banquet, the guests repaired
to the parlors and the opening prelude to
the evening talk was that most appro-
priate hymn for such an occasion, “Bab-
ylon, etc.,” rendered with piano accom-
paniment by Mr. Charles Pike, whose
voice is specially adapted to sacred music
and the hymn was charmingly sung.
	Sister Alder’s opening remarks were in
reference to events that led up to her
taking the second voyage across the sea,
and the prophecies that had been made
with regard to her visiting Jerusalem.
She wore a soft white gown and remained
standing while giving the entire descrip-
tion, which occupied over an hour,
only resting when Mr. Pike sang. After
the speaker had gone over the country to
Jerusalem, Mr. Pike sang “The Holy
City,” and one felt almost as if one were
transported to that land of mystery and
lost delight.
	Again after the speaker had taken us
to the Mount of Olives, the city of Naz-
areth, the Sea of Galilee, and so vivid
was the description that we felt almost
as if we were ourselves wandering round
the very  places where our Savior had
travelled in his sojourn on earth, Mr. Pike
rendered sublimely, in sympathetic voice,
the one hymn above all others most in
keeping with the subject, “Galilee, O
Galilee.” To one with spirit attuned to
these lofty themes, the evening’s program
was uplifting in an unusual degree. It
was certainly an intellectual and inspiring
feast; one felt as if brought in contact
with the very scenes and associations so
graphically portrayed.
	Sister Alder invited President Lund to
speak to us, as he had also, some years
since, visited the land of Palestine, and
he gave a brief summary of a few of his
own impressions of the places he visited


mentioning some of the women associ-
ated with the scenes, coming to the well,
for instance, as the women of Biblical
fame did, to fill their earthern jars, with
water; even so they do to this day pre-
serving their ancient customs.
	It was surely an evening long to be re-
membered, and our sincere thanks are
due to the hostess who entertained us so
delightfully.


