VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
Stakes visited by missionaries sent from
the General Board of the Relief Society,
during the month of August, 1906.
    San Luis Stake, Monday, August 6,
Conference at Manassa, Colorado, Sis-
ters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Harriet B.
Harker. Morgan, Tuesday, August 7, in
Morgan City, conference in Stake meet-
ing house, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
    Union, Thursday, August 6,  confer-
ence at La Grande, Oregon, in Stake
meeting house, Counselor Ida S. Dusen-
berry and Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
The sisters also met with the Ward Re-
lief Society in Baker City, Oregon and in
Emmet, Idaho. 
    Bingham, Thursday, August 23, at 
Idaho Falls, Idaho, conference in the
meeting house, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
    Jordan, Monday, August 27, conference
at Riverton, in Ward meeting house,
Sisters Ellis R. Shipp and Isabel M. W.
Sears. This visit was made by invita-
tion of the Stake president, as Jordan
Stake had been visited officially in May


As was announced last week by dispatch
from Helsingfors, August 19, the Czar has
confirmed for Finland what he refused for
Russia. He has signed an act granting
universal suffrage, without distinction of 
sex, and specially permitting women to
become members of the Finnish Parlia-
ment, and to occupy any position under
Parliament from Speaker downwards.
    Madame Jorgenson, a leader of the
Finnish equal rights movement, predicts
that many women will stand as candidates
at the first general election. She says:
    "Women will support female candi-
dates until such time as all the legal dis-
abilities of women are repealed. We ex-
pect to have nine or ten women members
in the first reformed Parliament, which
will open every profession to women.
    "The army we do not want to enter and
expect no candidates for the police. But
there is no reason why we should not 
command ships. On the lakes in the far
North many women run small steamers.
    "We have met practically no opposi-
tion from men, and that in my opinion 
gives Finland a right to claim a higher
status in civilization than any other
European country.”—Ex.


