		LIBERTY STAKE.

The semi-annual Conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened in the 2nd
Ward meeting house, Salt Lake City, 
June I, 1906, President Annie S. Musser
presiding.
	Commenced by prayer and the usual
opening exercises, and reading of annual
report of 1905.
	President Musser made a few opening
remarks.
	A solo was rendered by Sister Eva
James.
	Counselor Zerviah G. Eardley made a
few remarks on the Peace meeting, and
urged the sisters not to neglect the Tem-

[Column 3]
ple work and to observe order in that holy
building.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson spoke of
the Relief Society excursion to Saltair,
on July 19th, and urged all to attend.
	Sister Emily S. Richards of the general
board said that we were the next organiz-
ation to the Priesthood, and a great re-
sponsibility rested upon us. Mother is the
central figure of the home, and should
endeavor to preserve a spirit of love and
peace there at all times, and cultivate
faith; related many incidents of healing
by faith.
	Part of the branches of the stake were
reported in a prosperous condition by the
following sisters: Counselor Sarah Hilton,
1st ward; Secretary Hazel White, 2nd
ward; President Emily Weiler, 3rd ward;
and President Sarah Jane Chamberlain,
8th ward.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp of the general
board felt that we have much to be thank-
ful for, and great opportunity to do good.
	Adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing and
benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Continued by singing “Redeemer of
Israel,” etc., with customary exercises.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board; all were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Lottie P. Baxter said that she
considered the Relief Society the crown-
ing auxiliary organization of the Church;
read passages from the scriptures, and
quoted poetry, to encourage the teachers
in their labors, and referred to the unsel-
fish work of the Savior.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt that the gos-
pel was beyond price, and we should seek
to set an example to the world, and bring
a knowledge of the gospel to them. Let
us have the spirit of love, humility and
patience in our homes; draw nearer to
our children, gain their confidence in all
things, and at all times and live to do
good to others, for kind words are never
lost, and we will have joy ourselves.
	Sister Clara E. James spoke encour-
agingly to the teachers; do not lose sight
of the little things, for we may gain bless-
ings by performing them.
	Sister Emily S. Richards urged us to be
united, and harmonious in all our under-
takings and continue to progress.
	President Musser made a few closing
remarks.
	Adjourned for six months by singing
“The time is far spent,” etc.
	Benediction Sister Lizzie Woolley.
			Lizzie Robbins, Secretary.

