RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
at Pleasant Grove July 20th, 1906, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. We
were again honored with the presence of
our beloved General President Bathsheba
W. Smith and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, also nearly all our Stake board
and presidents of wards. Meeting opened
at 10 a.m. After the opening exercises
President Standring expressed herself
highly honored in the attendance of our
leading sisters to day. Reported Alpine
Stake in good condition, advancing and
improving. Felt we were much blest to
day and congratulated the sisters of Pleas-
ant Grove on their beautiful new meeting
house.
	Lehi 1st ward reported by President
Mary A. Anderson; Lehi 2nd ward, Presi-
dent Kate Allred; Cedar Fort President
Margaret Bennett. President B. W.
Smith said she loved Relief Society work
better than anything except the Temple.
Felt it was good to meet together, it
strengthens and helps us. Wanted the
young mothers worked into the Relief
Society. Thinks we will meet and rejoice
together when we pass away from this
earth. Had received her endowments in
the days of the Prophet Joseph and had
associated in temple work ever since,
when that work was being done; before
we had Temples here officiated in the En-
dowment House. Felt very happy to be
here and to see the sisters so united; pray-
ed the Lord to bless us with means to
carry on the work.
	Singing by the Choir. “The time is far
spent” etc.
	Brother Jas. H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency felt always to appreciate these
meetings. “We have a good part of the
strength of the Church among these sist-
ers, and there is a very nice representation
here to day; many of you have had long
experience and if you could impart these
experiences to the younger portion of the
sisters how much good you could do,
though in some cases perhaps your ad-
vances would be repulsed. Our children
should be trained while they are little
tots, for when they get into their ’teens
it is almost impossible to manage them
and they are liable to get away from us if
they have not had proper training in
childhood. We are a progressive people
and we are raising a generation who do
not fear anything, but if we can teach
them to fear God, they will not go far
astray. The sisters are an important part
of this Church and there is a great re-
sponsibility resting upon them. How this
work is increasing and how our hearts en-
large and how much cause we have to re-
joice. The Lord has blest Sister Smith,
she is a representative of the first organi-
zation of this Society in Nauvoo, and we
are proud to see her and hear her testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
are like children and we will grow and
develop until we are fit to associate with
our Father in heaven.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells declared she
was very happy to be with us to day.
Loved the mountains and liked to seem
so near to them. Had been delighted
with Brother Clarke’s remarks on the
training of children. It is necessary to
keep a strong guard over our children.
Called attention to Sister Smith as the

[Column 2]
only representative of the Society in Nau-
voo, she stands pre-eminent as the first
woman in the Church. We are doing
greater things now than in early days; if
we were to be put back fifty years we
should find a great difference; we have
been looking forward to something great.
President Woodruff used to say that when
Joseph F. Smith became President of the
Church we should see great things, and
since Sister Smith has been President
great things have been done in the Relief
Society work. Pesident Joseph F. Smith
in his remarks at Conference said the Re-
lief Society stood next to the Priesthood
in representation among the auxiliaries
of the Church. Sister Wells loved the
sisters of the Relief Society. There is no
such women in the world, they are trained
to speak from the heart, they have a
testimony of the gospel and are able to
bear it before the world.
	Singing. Benediction. Adjourned until
2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: Conference re-con-
vened 2 o’clock. President Standring pre-
siding. After the opening exercises some
of the wards were reported. President
Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant Grove;
Linden, President Cordelia Thorne; Ame
rican Fork 4th ward President Alice T.
Steele. The reports were given in a spirit-
ed manner, all seem to be enjoying their
labors and are in good, flourishing con-
dition.
	Sister Sina Chipman expressed her
satisfaction in being privileged to be home
again among her friends after her travels
in Europe. Appreciated her mountain
home, and to love the gospel more than
ever. Had been inquired of in Scandi-
navia concerning friends who are here.
The saints in the old countries are long-
ing to hear from their friends in Utah.
They would give much to just meet and
shake hands with the President and Apos-
tles. This work is a great work and it is
growing and advancing. We have much
before us and it will require our best
efforts to keep pace with the times. We
know nothing of poverty in this land,
there is plenty of it in the old countries,
had seen more in London than in other
places. Had found over one hundred
people of her kindred and felt thankful to
meet and get acquainted with them.
	Solo by Miss Driggs.
	General President B. W. Smith was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith and was the only remaining member
of the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety. The last words she had heard the
Prophet say were, that he wanted to preach
a sermon on baptism for the dead for he
had received a revelation on that subject,
but he never had the opportunity to preach
again. “The endowments were given in the
Nauvoo Temple when it was in an unfinish-
ed condition and were just the same as they
are now, and every one who was with in
reach received them, but the work had to
be rushed because the mob were upon us
and we were driven out in the frost and
snow.” Sister Smith buried her mother
and her baby on the road after leaving
her home in Nauvoo. Desired the boys
and girls should get a testimony of the
gospel for it is worth more than riches
and some day the Prophet Joseph will
meet with us and bless us in our labors.
	Song. Miss Halliday.
	Sister E. B. Wells hoped the sisters

[Column 3]
would remember what Sister Smith had
been speaking about, because she had told
them of the Holy order and we should im-
press these things upon our children for
they are greater than anything the world
can give, our ordinances are very sacred and
should be held so by our sisters, and they
should keep their garments sacred and
not cut them off here and there, but keep
them as they were received in the Temple.
Thought there must have been a good
spirit here today to draw out the remarks
of Sister Smith for these are things she
seldom speaks about. Many of our little
boys hold a portion of the Priesthood and
we should bear that in mind. We want
our mothers to make their homes attrac-
tive and not allow the children to be neg-
lected.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi felt to appre-
ciate being here to day and to hear the
teachings of these sisters who have been
members of the Church so long, the world
ought to be converted to the truth in the
testimonies of these noble women.
	President Standring had enjoyed the
remarks of the sisters, the instruction is
something we should all remember; and
mothers should impress upon their child-
ren the importance and the sacredness of
our Holy Temples. Hoped the remarks
of to day would be indelibly impressed
upon us all, and may the peace and bles-
sing of God rest and abide with us con-
tinually.
	Singing. “We thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Closing prayer Counselor
Annie C. Hindley. Conference adjourned
for three months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

