[Vol21 | July 1934 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Grandmother Looks Steele]
GRANDMA PILLING Grandmother Looks Back By C. Frank Steele HEIR ranks are thinning, these mother and grandmother pioneers.
They have known the joys and the sorrows, the reverses and successes, the dreams and the disappointments connected with the "Winning of the West" and now as the years pass one by one we love and honor them with an increasing devotion. It was an eventful day, the ninetyfifth birthday of Grandma Pilling of Cardston, Alberta. Her children to the fourth generation were there and though her eyes were somewhat dimmed with tears they were tears of love and gratitude. She had no complaints regarding those years of pioneering, first in Utah and then in Canada; she has no complaints now.
Somehow in Grandma Pilling one sees embodied the courage, strength and faith of the western pioneer women and it was a profoundly moving story she told her family that night, the night of her ninetyfifth birthday. The simple eloquence of her recital as she looked back over the way will ever remain in the memory of the Pilling family, one of the pioneer families of "Mormon" settlement in Alberta. T seems only yesterday," said this pioneer mother and grandmother, "that I was a little girl crossing the plains in one of those early pioneer parties. Well I remember the occasion of meeting your father and grandfather. While Richard and I were living in our little home the Lord blessed us with ten wonderful children.
These brought joy to us in our modest but happy home in Layton, Davis county, Utah. GRANDMOTHER LOOKS BACK "Richard was a real pioneer and when we heard of the beautiful land in Canada we decided to sell our home in Utah and go there..
Shortly after crossing the Canadian border we came to a spot on the St. Mary's river where we set up our winter quarters, and commenced the building of a new home. "It was while building this new home in the north that we diverted the water of the river from its natural channel and used it for irrigation purposes. It is now recorded in the government files at Ottawa that the Pilling family was the first family in Canada to divert water for irrigation purposes. The joys and pleasures that we had in that little home probably none of you under present conditions could understand. It was at our place that succeeding pioneer parties always stopped and crossed the river. It was a stopping-place for everyone, no matter who they were or where they came from. We had a welcome for all alike.
When those tired parties used to stop at our home we nearly always cheered them with some lively music and dancing. "Our social activity in those days was of the variety that we ourselves could furnish. In our neighborhood we had a fiddle, mouth organ, Jew's harp and accordion and these furnished lively music for our entertainments.
Everybody lived as one big family, and we had lots of good fun. "In those days we all trusted each other, we loved each other and lived for each other. The signing of a note, the making of a mortgage or the breaking of a promise were unknown.
When a baby was born the nearest neighbor usually volunteered her services as a nurse and I was called to welcome the youngster into the world with no thought of 415 charging for my services, of course. It was perhaps here that I became known far and near as Aunt Catherine or Grandma Pilling. "Those, my children, were the happy days! "Our ranch buildings and home were located on a beautiful flat on the banks of the river, sheltered in the winter from the north and west winds by a high sloping hill which was truly the home of the wild rose while wild fruits of every description were abundant.
With the exception of one individual, Old Beauty, our stock was not allowed to disturb this 'Garden of Eden.' Yes, Beauty, my favorite cow, at my call would come running from the herd on the hillside and always seemed to understand she was a privileged character. "Although we had many, many joys in those days we also had our sorrows. However, we always tried to see the silver lining. Out of the sky one day came your grandfather's illness and death. It was surely a sad parting and all nature seemed to join us in our mourning. "Though I have suffered much during my declining years my vision is good and as I look ahead I am wondering if you in the hundred years that may be yours will see the progress it has been my privilege to witness.
