[Vol21 | July 1934 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: From Tepee to Engar]
From
Tepee to Tabernacle 
By Alveretta S. Engar VERY unusual assemblage of Lamanitish people, descendants of Father Lehi, was brought together in the great Latterday Saint Tabernacle by the Genealogical Society of Utah, on the evening of Friday, April 7, 1933. The evening program proved to be intensely interesting and unique. On the stand, occupying the choir seats, were seen native Indians, some of whom were dressed in Indian regalia. Other people having part ~ Indian blood in their veins were asked to take their places in the seats of honor. The Hawaiian and Maori races were also represented. A choir of Mexican natives rendered INDIANS ATTEND CONFERENCE AT WASHAKIE, BOX ELDER CO., UTAH 424
Latter-day Saint hymns in their own tongue. The Hawaiian and Maori contingent gave several numbers of their own native songs and music, accompanied by guitars. FROM Canada, came a very intelligent Indian who told how he became converted to the Gospel. He declared that life had not been especially happy for him because of his birth, for, being part white the Indians did not have much use for him and being part Indian, he was shunned by the whites. However, through the influence of his white wife, who is a devout Latter-day Saint, he was led to investigate the Gospel.
Through reading the Book of Mormon and through being RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE brought low in illness, he became acquainted with God's will concerning him. He related several wonderful manifestations in which his ancestors who had passed beyond appeared to him, preaching the truths of the Gospel and admonishing him to follow them. THE whole evening's proceeding was a significant demonstration of the fact that God is remembering his promises to these people that they should accept the truths of the Gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and receive it as a divine record or history of their forefathers and finally become a white and delightsome pepole.
