[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 916 | The Home | Red | Ribbon Tree]
from old cards or made from paper should have a small hole punched in the top end for threading through a strong loop, ornament book, or wire, for attaching to the tree. In addition to paper decorations, each child's collection could also include small silver bells, candy canes, small packages of raisins, little colored paper sacks containing sugared cereal, nuts, or other Christmas treats. When the decorations are complete, they are safely tucked away in the boxes which were painted earlier. Each child can decorate and personalize his own box as desired. Now for the best part. Trim the tree with as many pieces of candy, raisin boxes, cereal bags, etc., as there are days till Christmas times the number of children. Then — every day — each child gets to exchange one decoration from his box for one goody on the tree. Christmas Eve, the last exchange is made, and Christmas is finally here! When the holidays are past, strip your tree of its seasonal - items and save for that preschooler who keeps asking, "How many days till my birthday?" 909 %. 69% AY Ts tant whem Lauretta Wells Craner, Burley, Idaho, lives on a farm and enjoys the beauty of fields and flowers, her garden, and her home. She has won many awards at the county fair for her cooking, sewing, and flower arrangements, but she is bestknown for her remarkable skill as a quilter and a designer of quilts. One of her quilts, exquisitely made, tells the Story of Lauretta's marriage to John Craner and the events of her later life. Another quilt features an arrangement of tulips in rich and glowing color. Her patchwork quilts, she says, are stitched with memory. Her appreciation for beauty and order is evidenced in her well-kept home, where pillowcases, dish towels, and handmade aprons exhibit the art of a devoted homemaker. 'Il want to keep my home always beautiful," she says, '"'and especially at this time when my husband, who is ill, needs encouragement and cheerfulness around him." Mrs. Craner has been active in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church. All of her married life she has been either a visiting teacher or a member of the ward presidency of Relief Society. Now, at the age of seventy, she is president of the Star Ward Relief Society. For many years she has kindly ministered to the sick and the bereaved, and has opened the doors of her home to those in need. She is the mother of nine, grandmother to forty-two, and great-grandmother to fiftyfive. 910 I I I I FESTIVE "SAND BAKELS" FOR THE HOLIDAYS Hjordis Skollingsberg Kearns North Stake, Utah As a feature of the Kearns North Stake, Utah, visiting teacher convention, the theme of "Around the World With Relief Society" was effectively presented by the sisters of the stake who were born outside the continental United States. Hjordis Skollingsberg, who was born in Norway, made some of her famous "Sand Bakels" for the refreshment table. The "Bakels" are tasty and very attractive. They have a special appeal for parties and for the holiday season. "SAND BAKELS" (Fancy Tarts) Preheat oven to 350° For crust: 2. Add: Mix: lc. And 2 tbsp. Butter 3c. And 3 tbsp. Flour 1 ce. Sugar (add more flour, if dough is too sticky) 1. Add: 1 egg 3. Add: 1 big tbsp. Heavy or whipping 1 tsp. Almond extract cream Beat well together Press dough into tart forms or tart tins (muffin tins or individual metal jello molds can be used) and bake. The dough should be about 4% to \% inch thick. Bake until golden brown. Fill with whipping cream. (In Denmark the tarts are filled with vanilla pudding.) Then put a layer of strawberries or strawberry jam, then a layer of whipping cream, and a cherry on top. Where? Ruth G. Rothe Where, oh, where Has the time gone? People wonder every day. Perhaps they should be told The truth, that— Time has slipped—AWAY! 911 or two to sit beside, Where Io ve and faith a bide, i ree, » ane he Chorus Stilled so And One Ss To lend a Sp Hal Rume! I I Fr _ rich Ir ariel A New Version of an Old Game Verda F. Burton Member, General Board of Relief Society (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 1965) Model: Dora Z. Fotheringham, Holladay Stake The skirt was made from an old sheet dyed orange, and decorated with brightcolored pockets cut with pinking scissors from scraps of printed material. (For directions, see continuation on page 931) 914 = =. ®. ' 3 ' ou - I ors 7 a Se eke EYE Ce ae ha ey eats ties TS EEE We o Hal Rumel aoe I '«? 5. Made by Susan S. Curtis, Bonneville Stake, and Jane N. Sheffield, Monument Park Stake. A graceful evergreen tree (pine, fir, spruce, juniper, cedar) sprayed a glistening white, and adorned from top to bottom (in the center), with a streamer of pink roses makes an unusually lovely Christmas tree. The tree in the picture, in addition to the trimming on the tree itself, has a garland of roses trimmed with pearls, arranged on a crescent of greenery, to form a ''frontage,'' and to make a place for stacking the Christmas presents. A tree sprayed in pink or pale blue could be trimmed with pale yellow or white roses, or a plain evergreen tree might wear garlands of roses—red or pink or yellow. 915 Hal Rumel decorated with red velvet ribbon bows Allen seated Ponderosa pine tree, inexpensively and attractively and pine cones. The Don B. Allen home, Salt Lake City, Utah; Christopher in the chair.