[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The General Procession James H. Anderson]

The General Procession James H. Anderson _ Greece and Turkey were engaged in big battles near Constantinople, at the end of August. The British government began the construction of a railway from Jerusalem to Bagdad in August. Railway disasters, shipwrecks, and mine casualties in August claimed more than 2,000 lives. The heaviest rainfall in fifty years drenched Washington, D. C., on Sept. 2, doing much damage ito property. Mr. Malfield, Democratic Ku-Kux-Klan candidate for U. S. Senator in Texas, received the State nomination at the primary election there in August. Fifty thousand people were killed in a typhoon and flood at Swatow, China, on August 2, and 100,000 others were rendered homeless. Austria as a nation seemed on the verge of a definite collapse at the end of August, owing to no finances to run the government. Presbyterians in Washington, D. C., decided on August 23 to erect in the National capital a temple to cost $10,000,000. The coal miners' strike in the United States, which began April 1 and ended August 31, cost the American people in wages and business losses more than the cost of any year in the great war, A gliding machine, that is, an airplane which can rise without a motor against a 15-mile-an-hour wind, and travel for three hours has been successfully demonstrated in Germany. Confidential U. S. Government agents, returned from Germany in August, express the opinion that within ten years Germany will be better prepared for war than she was in 1914, France and Great Britain were greatly at loggerheads all  during August, over Germany. A compromise suggested by Belgium finally was adopted, smoothing: matters for the present. Air battles were declared by British experts, in August, to be the prospective decisive conflicts of the future, hence Great Britain is laying plans for the greatest airship fleet in the world. Michael Collins, president of the Irish Free State, was assassinated in August, and disastrous guerrilla warfare was carried on between Free State troops and rebels, generally to the advantage of the former. On August 17-22, United States government officers arrested many I. W. W. Members in Michigan and IIInois, for syndicalism, or engaging in a movement to overthrow the present form of the American government. Violence in the railway shopmen's strike, by which people were being killed, property destroyed, and mail and other transportation seriously interfered with in August, caused the government to secure injunctions in Chicago on September 1, against the whole railway department of the American Federation of Labor. Samuel Gompers and other labor leaders became violently defiant at this action. U. S. Attorney H. M. Daugherty, in behalf of the American government, on September 1, announced the government's attitude toward labor union strikers who persisted in murdering non-strikers and destroying property, as follows: "When the unions claim the right to dictate to the Government, and to dominate the American people, and deprive the American people of the necessities of life, the Government will destroy the unions, for the Government of the United States is supreme and must endure." WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING Women voted in Tennessee for the first time, in August. Zelda Sears, a former Michigan milkmaid, is now the brilliant play author. Mrs. Gatling, a New York woman, has started an English newspaper in Jerusalem, Palestine. In eighteen states of the Union, women are still deprived of the full elective franchise given to men. 540 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Martha Riley is the Democratic candidate for Congress from Madison, Wisconsin. The women's vote in Ohio, August 8, was the chief cause of the prohibition victory at that election. Alice M. Robertson, present member of Congress from Oklahoma, was nominated in August, by the Republican party, for re-election. In Holland, women 25 years and over may vote, and in August exercised the franchise generally for the first time. The Grand Duchess Marie of Russia has opened an embroidery store in Paris, employing Russian refugee girls. Their work is in great demand. Mrs. Ilma C. Olson, of Minneapol's, is the Socialist party candidate for governor of Minnesota at the coming November election. New York women have gone into court with a protest against policemen stopping them smoking cigarettes on the streets there. Miss Edith Picton-Turkerville of Wales is a labor party candidate for election to the British House of Commons, at a coming election. Madame Ganna Walska, famous Polish grand opera singer, became the wife of Harold F. McCormick, Chicago multim'llionaire, at Paris, France, August 11. American Gentile Protestant women in Texas formed an organization somewhat similar to the Ku-Klux-Klan on August 23. The non-Jewish, non-Catholic membership goes into the thousands already. The palace at Susa, in which Queen Esther of Bible fame held converse with King Ahasuerus concerning the wicked prime minister Haman, has been uncovered by archaeologists, with remarkably interesting relics. Thirty pajama-clad girls, hustled out of their beds by fire at Lakeside, Michigan, on August 8, formed a bucket brigade, and by energetic work, saved a number of bu'ldings. GENERAL PROCESSION. — 541 Mrs. Blanche Rivers in charge of the W/sconsin welfare division of the state board of health there, advocates a prohibition law for suppressing the coffee habit among children. Mrs. Bertha Ward, woman marshal of Deslacs, Wisconsin, resigned her office on August 19, because drunken men merely laughed at her when she sought to induce them to cease disturbing the peace. Nashel el Abed, a talented Arab girl, prominent in the recent Syrian rebellion against the French, and who recently escaped from a French prison, says the cause of the revolt was the occupation of Syria by black troops, and the tyranny of French officials. Miss Hilda Jones, an English girl aged 17 years, broke the world's 300-meter swimm'ng record at New York on August 5. Miss Hilda Reggin was eight feet, and Miss Ethel McGary a feet behind her at the finish. The two latter are New York girls.