[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON I - Theology and Testimony - MIRACLES OF THE LATTER D]

Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS "Mormonism" has become "a marvelous work and a wonder" in the eyes of the world, but to the Latter-day Saint it is a progressive miracle. Without Divine interposition and delegated authority and individual testimony (a faith that is a gift from God) this Church could never have been an institution fulfiling prophecy as it has. It is predestined to triumph with the sword of truth and to dominate by rendering Christian service. "Mormonism" had its Beginning in a Miracle. Joseph Smith's first vision was no human day-dream, it was a revelation as far above man's imagination as is the sun above the arc light. The grove, made sacred by the miracle, was a sanctuary for the first Latter-day Saint (an innocent truth-seeking boy); it was a temple blessed with the presence of God. The Father and his Son, the Redeemer of the World., Both were seen, each spoke, and was heard, the Father introducing his immortal, resurrected Son in a manner that showed: the kindest consideration of the one and the most tender affection and highest approval of the other. ''Joseph, this is my beloved son, hear him." Then follows the question addressed to both the Father and the Son. It was answered by the Son, who supplemented his reply with instructions. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, II, 8-28.) This miracle had behind it the word of the Lord in the form of prophecy. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:7-16.) It had behind it also a human family need. The true God idea had become so distorted by false teachings that nothing short of a direct revelation of the personality and character and relationship of the Eternal Father and his Son, the Redeemer, could form a safe foundation for the dispensation of the fulness of times. 'Darkness covered the earth." The true and living God had been argued out of existence in the minds of men. The miracle in the grove brought back the lost truth. It was "The dawning of a brighter day." There was now one person on the earth who had more than a knowledge of God, he had an acquaintance with God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that acquaintance was increasingly lasting. All who know of the fidelity of Joseph Smith to the reality of the first vision can say for him what Paul said of himself, 'I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." The Book of Mormon a Miracle. The second great miracle of "Mormonism" was the appearance of the angel Moroni. This messenger from heaven, who had been the guardian of the plates for more than a thousand years, showed that he was no stranger to the new seer, for he calls Joseph by name. This miracle has the remarkable distinction of being three times repeated. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smah, Ul, 29-47.) In preparing Joseph for the possession and translation of the plates, several miracles were performed, and one of them was of a nature that put Joseph on the failure list. He, however, with an honesty not characteristic of either frauds nor hallucinated persons, makes record of his error. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, 11, 52-54.) The delivery of the plates to Joseph and the placing upon him of the responsibility of their care and use was a striking miracle. This miracle was in fulfilment of the miracles of knowledge recorded in Psalm 85:11 and Book of Mormon, Mormon 8:16. An immortal being, who could enter and leave a room with openings closed, as the resurrected Jesus did, hands those plates, earth material, over to Joseph; in this miracle is indicated the marvelous versatility of the power of re-embodied or resurrected beings. The translation of the plates was one of the most extended miracles of record. The visions of Moses and the revelations of John the Revelator are short in comparison with the production of the Book of Mormon, a work which required the aid of the superhuman at every step. As conclusive evidence of the helplessness of human beings to make progress alone in the task, one needs but to read Doctrine and Covenants, Section 3, where again is seen the honesty and humility of Joseph Smith. With dauntless courage he gives to the world the word of the Lord that almost pitilessly puts him under condemnation. Impostors do not publicly condemn themselves. (See Doctrine and Covenants 10:1-4.) Testimony of the Three Witnesses a Miracle. The three witnesses whose testimony is published with the  ! Book of Mormon were partic: pants in a miracle. They witnessed a presentation of the plates by an angel of God, who came down from heaven, and they heard the voice of God declaring that the translation was by the gift and power of God. All this was superhuman evidence, knowledge unobtainable by any mortal means. And these witnesses never varied from their testimony; it was with them unchanged through life and held to at death. The testimony of the eight witnesses, while of an unimpeachable character, does not reach over into the realm of the superhuman, The miracle element entered into the making of the Book. Of Mormon history. The historians were men of God, inspired and prophetic. The guardianship and the delivery of the plates, and the profitable reading of the book is close to, if not within, the field of the miraculous. President Heber C. Kimball is quoted as having prophetically promised that a three-hours' honest-hearted reading of the Book of Mormon by a believer would cure any case of the "blues." The spiritual experiment has been tried many a time and no case of failure has been reported. The Book itself makes prayerfulness a prerequisite of a profitable reading of it. (See Moroni 10:4.) Heart-prayer is spiritual honesty, and how can anyone consistently expect to find truth from an untrue point of view? It is as impossible to find God's ways without God as it is to find nature's ways without nature. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein is every revelation from God a miracle? 2. Describe the first miracle of "Mormonism" as it appears to you; (a) the place, (b) the time, (c) the events. 3. What needs were there for the first miracle of '""Mormonism'? (a) on earth? (b) in heaven? 4, What facts did the first miracle establish? (a) as to the reliability of the scriptures, (b) as to the prevailing idea of God, (c) as to the quality of existing religious institutions. 5. In the first miracle what was done that indicated the Father's acquaintance with Joseph Smith? 6. How did Moroni give evidence of knowing Jpseph before Joseph knew him? 7. In what particular was the second miracle of "Mormonism" an exceptional one? 8. Wherein was the translation of the plates a miracle? 9. Show that the possession of the plates was beyond the reach of human power.  10. Describe the miracle upon which the testimony of the three witnesses was based. 11. How may we account for the fact that some fair-minded persons speak of the Book of Mormon as good ethics while they discredit the manner of its coming forth? 12. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." What one thing more could be said of a good painting of the Sacred Grove in a Latter-day Saint home?