Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Session) THE COURSE OF STUDY (Social Service) Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board "The health, happiness and efficiency of the adult man and woman depend to a very large extent upon the type of habits they acquire from their training and experiences during early life. Any information which gives the interested parent a better idea of the mental life of the child, methods that may be utilized in developing desirable habits, and suggestions for overcoming undesirable habits, may be considered well worth while."—Douglas A. Thorn, Director of Habit Clinic, Boston. 
 Owen Lovejoy, the president of the National Child Welfare Association, says: "I feel intensely that those who are devoting themselves to an effort to improve the surroundings, the conditions, the opportunities of child life, are tackling the problem of the future at its fountain head." It was in accord with these ideas of the importance of child study and care and training, both to the individual and to society, that this subject was chosen for study in the Social Service department. Dr. Wile, who has had twenty years' experience in dealing with children, and whose book, The Challenge of Childhood, forms the basis of the lesson work in this department, divides the subject into four problems of childhood, the physical, the mental, the emotional, and the social. He gives examples or cases of children who have come under his supervision. Throughout the study, he carries the idea that many of the social ills, diseases and maladjustments of adult life might be avoided if these prob-° lems of physical health, mental health, and social health were properly understood and treated and rectified in childhood. He shows how these problems have been successfully treated in the cases he cites. The general trend in the treatment of all social problems today is toward prevention. The public health programs are placing the emphasis on childhood as the best time to lay the foundation for physical health, and to prevent ill health in adult life. This is evidenced by our baby clinics, our pre-school child clinic, our school nurses, and health education in our schools. There is at present a corresponding emphasis placed upon mental health, or mental hygiene—upon the forming of correct habits, right attitudes toward life, home, parents, school, church, etc. It is thought that much of delinquency and crime come from mental ill health; that often childhood fears, doubts, anxieties, angers and despairs, are the beginnings of unwholesome attitudes. It is the individual (child or adult) with wrong attitudes who finds it difficult to make the necessary adjustments to life. Life is a series of adjustments which begin as soon as a child is born. He has to adjust to the physical world, to rules, to other members of the family, etc. As he grows older he is constantly meeting new conditions and situations. Things are always changing for all of us. We all have our adjustments to make. Dr. Wile says that intelligence should be measured in terms of capacity for making adjustments to new situations. The lack of ability to adjust causes much trouble. Tt is more difficult for childrento adjust now than when we were young. Our social life is much more complicated now. So many more desires have been created, life has taken on a swifter pace, with the telephone, auto, radio, airplane, etc., none of which existed in my childhood. Perhaps it is this complexity of life and the difficulty in making adjustments that causes so much delinquency among the youth of today. By far the great majority of the. Inmates of prisons are young people. Criminologists say that too much has been spent on cure and not enough on prevention. George W. 'Kershway dean of criminology at the New York School of Social Work, places his hope for the future on the proper understanding of the needs and the training of childhood—that plastic and formative period when good habits are easily formed and bad ones more easily corrected. The establishment of child guidance clinics is a modern development. These clinics are for the study and treatment of children whose behavior is out of the ordinary, who have temper tantrums and nervousness, who are cruel, extremely sensitive and seclusive, who lie and steal and who have difficulty in school, either in reaction to discipline or in making ordinary progress. These are all common examples of extraordinary behavior. Such behavior is an expression of difficulty in social adjustment; the child may be called maladjusted The function of the clinic is to study the physical, mental, emotional and social problems presented in these childfen and to prescribe treatment. The clinics are usually composed of a psychiatrist who is a specialist of nervous and mental diseases; a physician who deals with physical diseases; a psychologist who determines the child's mental abilities and educational requirements; and a social worker who considers the home and social factors involved, and who helps to carry out treatment prescribed. A complete study of the personality of the child is made from a scientific and sympathetic viewpoint. Dr. Wile, in the Challenge of Childhood follows the plan of these child guidance clinics. He treats the physical problems from the viewpoint of the physician and shows that many instances of maladjustments are due to physical causes. The mental problems are taken up from the viewpoint of the psychologist and we are given an insight into the mental abilities and disabilities of children which affect their ability to adjust. The psychiatric viewpoint is given in the emotional problems of children. The social problems are given from the standpoint of the social case worker, who studies the environment and background of the individual with a view of assisting him in making his adjustments. Dr. Wile warns us that he separates these problems only for convenience. The child is a complete personality composed of its emotional, mental, physical and social make-up. The aim of this study is to give an understanding of the personality of the child to those who are trying to guide, influence and assist him to secure physical, mental, emotional and social health, or to attain a mastery of the greatest of all arts, the art of living. 
 SOCIAL SERVICE Dr.