EDGAR LEE MASTERS By Katherine B. Palm From the four corners of the earth great persons have come to visit Utah. Many have praised our scenery and our industry, our sculptors and our painters, our musical and our stage celebrities; for it is admitted that more natives have attained artistic renown in proportion to the state's population than has been remarked elsewhere. ' Lightning did not strike any of these who came "for to see and for to admire."' It was not until the famous author of Spoon River Anthology, Edgar Lee Masters, praised the culture of Salt Lake City residents that a bolt flashed out of the Middle West. In his article, "The American Background," which appeared in the August 26 number of The Nation, 1925, Mr. Masters said: "When the 'Mormons' were trekking across the West in search of a haven beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, the war with Mexico had come on; and the 'Mormons' were pressed into service in that war, thereby winning FOR THE UNITED STATES, the very land to which the 'Mormons' were marching in order to. Get away from the government. 'When they arrived in Utah the American eagle, having preceded them, was perching on the peaks of the Wasatchs. BUT THEY STAYED AND BUILT SALT LAKE CITY, AND MADE THE VALLEY OF THE LAKE A VAST EXPANSE OF WHEAT AND GRASS, OF FRUIT AND FLOWERS. Coming out of New England—for there both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young were born—how was it that they built a theater at once, laid at once the cornerstone of the present temple, and began to cultivate music and dancing so that today the city is excelled by none in America for intelligence and love of art? For myself, if I were cribbed and confined in some village of Tennessee, I should go to Salt Lake City rather than to Sussex or Normandy." It was this frank appreciation from the powerful pen of a great man which generated Bernard De Voto's shocking magazine article in which he not only maligned all the past and the present citizens fo the state who had had the good fortune to have been born in one-roomed log-cabins, but inferred also, that Mr. Masters had fallen into the hands of "Mormons"; had been entertained by them; and had formed his opinion of the culture in Salt Lake City from their hand-picked group. All of which is very silly. I regret the time I must consume in telling you the truth of this matter when there is so much information about Masters' literary work which would be far more valuable to you. But a statement from Bernard De Voto, a native of Utah, and himself a descendant on the distaff side of Utah pioneers, such as was published, is misleading even to our friends. 
 I affirm that no Latter-day Saint entertained Mr. Masters.: He came here under the auspices of the Extension Division of the University of Utah, one afternoon in March, 1925, and delivered a lecture in the Assembly Hall that same evening. Because he wished to see something of the city and its environs, he refused all invitations to speak at clubs or luncheons. Neither would he make any social engagements until he knew how much time he should need for sight-seeing. He wished to visit Bingham, Emigration Canyon, and if possible, Big Cottonwood Canyon. His knowledge of the Utah Pioneers and the subsequent events in the valley was more extensive than that of any other person I know except a professor of Western History. His knowledge was embarrassing to me, for in spite of my twenty odd years in Utah, I was not familiar enough with local history to answer Mr. Masters' intensive questioning. Because of a very heavy snowfall, and Mr. Masters' limited time, it seemed as if the trip to Bingham might have to be abandoned. Only a very powerful automobile and a skilful driver could plow through a snow-hidden road to Highland Boy Mine at the head of Bingham Canyon and back again in one afternoon. And the only person who dared to drive sixty-five miles over a dangerous road was the sheriff. So it was the sheriff who drove Mr. Masters to. Bingham and back, with a Roman Catholic and a Unitarian doing the double service of ballast and ballyhoo. © That Saturday evening Mr. Masters was our dinner guest; and I noticed that the tenderest spring lamb remained untouched on his plate. I suspected the Unitarian. I learned later that he had ordered liver and onions in a Bingham joint for the party. Like a good scout and an admirable guest, Mr. Masters had been a good trencherman there, and had no appetite left for my lamb. When it Had developed that Mr. Masters could spend the evening at our home, I hurried to the telephone and invited some University-and some town friends in to meet him. Everyone I asked scrapped his engagements for the evening and begged to bring along, JUST ONE MORE. Some friend who knew MITCH MILLER, SPOON RIVER, and so on. So crowded were my living-rooms that the younger men sat on the floor while Mr. Masters, very generously, read to us. Like all really great men, he was very unaffected and kind. Everyone in the presence of the poet who could see into the graves in Spoon River had the courage to be himself, and Mr. Masters responded genially to the conversation of the group. There were women present who knew many of Mr. Masters' friends in England; there were also present some old neighbors from Springfield, Illinois. Mr. Masters was interested when I told him that about half the-number of friends I had presented to him that evening were Latter-day Saints. But he did not care to know which judge, doctor, professor, engineer, lawyer, business man social acquaintance, was 'Mormon,' Catholic, Presbyterian or Unitarian. Sunday afternoon, in company with a young writer, I called at the Hotel Utah to take Mr. Masters to Emigration canyon. In the lobby I met a friend, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, who was going to his brother's funeral. We also chatted at the hotel with President and Mrs. Grant. At the Pioneer Mounment, near Emigration Canyon, Mr. Masters seemed to withdraw from us; he walked about alone. My friend made me a sign for silence. We did not look at Mr. Masters for some time. To have done so, we felt, would have been like spying. Whether he was seeing that band of weary men in search of liberty to practice their religion or not, I do not know. Unless he voices his inner vision of that day in his great historical poem which he may publish under the name of 'Atlantis,' I shall never know. But if Edgar Lee Masters does write of that band of pioneers, he will: do them justice. For he is a sifter of the hearts of men. Sunday evening, Professor and Mrs. Frederick Reynolds gave a dinner for Mr. Masters at the University Club, at which were present: Governor and Mrs. Dern, President and Mrs. Thomas of the University of Utah and several other University men and women. On Monday, we visited the Capitol, Temple grounds, and lunched at the Alta Club with a mining engineer, his wife and a friend who knew English literary friends of Mr. Masters. 4 Now, if taking Mr. Masters to see the Utah Copper Company's Camp in Bingham canyon, if presenting him to a crosssection of Salt Lake City residents at an informal gathering, if showing him the Pioneer Monument, the Temple Grounds, and the Capitol constitute "Mormon" propaganda, then with these REAL FACTS, Mr. De Voto can concoct yet another magazine article, provided the editors are still so gullible. But the very best refutation of De Voto's personal phobia is a poem by Edgar Lee Masters, published in 1924, in his New Spoon River. This was one year, you see, before the alleged seduction of the great poet in Salt Lake City. I shall quote a part of this poem 'Meredith Phyphe: "Come now, you supercilious detractors of America As a land of aridity, without stories and myths, Without romance, without epic material: Did not Brigham Young found as good a religion as Henry VIII? And build a greater city?" Possibly no other writer in America has had so much written about him this past year as Edgar Lee Masters. The most critical magazines, The American Mercury, and The Century, published last December long articles about him from the re- 
 spective pens of Benjamin De Casseres, and Carl Van Doran. The New York Herald-Tribune, also, in December, contained a long article by David Karstner in which he reviewed his acquaintance with Mr. Masters when he was the law partner of Clarence Darrow at the time of his publication of Spoon River Anthology. This book, in 1920, had the circulation of eighty thousand copies, an unheard of success for poetry. It has been voted one of the ten greatest books in the last hundred years. Some facts about Spoon River will enable you to understand why Masters stands out so eminently in American Literature and why English critics rate him so highly as a great poet. Spoon River Anthology is NOT in line of descent of any previous book, American or otherwise. It is not the story of the village, but it is the village used to make a universal picture. Through his law practice Masters grew to know types and came, through his social contacts, to compare characters.. The plan of making a portrait of life everywhere in America, and through this to trace the streams of liberalism, and conservatism, democracy and aristocracy, and to show as many tragedies, or comedies of life as he had characters. Spoon River is his life since it came to him through what he had seen and lived." In Benjamin De Casseres articles, in the December Mercury, Masters is discussed under the heading, "Five Portraits of Galvanized Iron." In this article the critic says: "IT do not know of any poetic fiction that gives me such an odor of reality, such a raw, rank taste of broken hearts and battered brains, such a sense of inexorable fatality. Masters does not describe, he creates, and his only ethic is the ethic of all great creators, pathos and irony, which are explicit in the picture he evokes like overtones between the lines. "The formula of Masters is the formula of life itself. His creations rise from their graves as we rise out of the womb, tell their story, as we enact ours, and then return to their sleep, as we shall return to ours. * *; "The Spoon River Anthology is one of the most original pieces of imaginative literature that I know of. Implacable ironist and realist, Masters, Prospero of a Middle Western graveyard, struck with the wand of creation upon the lidded skeletons of the dead and made them tell, (as all things must out) their secrets to the world. "Yoricks, Hamlets, and Ophelias, Hulots, Cousin Bettes and De Rastignacs, Quilps, Micawbers and Lady Deadlocks, Bovarys, Moreaus, and Saint Anthonys, Raskolnikoffs, Karamazoffs and Bazaroffs, Romeos, ° Don Quixotes and Long John Silvers, Lorna Doons, Becky Sharps, and Maud Mullers exist externally in flesh and blood wherever a thousand people live and weave and interweave their passions, dreams, loves and ambitions. They all live in Spoon River under the names that Masters has given them, and his great art consists in portraying their lives, their tragedies and comedies, and the vast inutility of it all, in the most con-- densed and vivid form conceivable. "T know no man who has put so much into so little as Edgar Lee Masters: has in Spoon River Anthology." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ESS I am so sorry I shall not have time to read you something from both Spoon River and Doomsday Book, or to tell you of his novels of pioneer life. His novels are of especial interest to us. For he knows so well how to use historical material. His latest novel, Kit O'Brien, is just off the press. The cover on this book relates that it is a marvelous story of the magic boyhood and has the charm of people who have passed on. Kit O'Brien has two distinct qualities: literary and social. The prose in this book equals that of George Moore's; and since the idiom is purely American, it is a valuable record of our own speech. To you women the problem of the boy who stole a piece of pie will be interesting. For your society has succored a goodly number of children from the jeopardy of courts. I know, since I have obtained your aid for myself. Had I not studied the social treatment of crime in Chicago University and visited the very institutions so graphically described in the story, I should not | dare to introduce this sociological phase. I might have thought it exaggerated. This novel is the best study of our own responsibilities as citizens. You should not fail to read it for its wholesomeness as literature, its profoundity as sociology. Lest I frighten you with this sociological comment, I better add that you won't discover the sociology while you are reading the book because of the author's genius. It is THE STORY first, and last. And all the time that will hold you.- ' My favorite poems in Spoon River are: "Fiddler Jones," "Anne Rutledge," "The Hill," "Robert Fulton Tanner," "Editor Whedon," and "Archibald Higbie." De Voto's own experience in Harvard as he related it in his article, places him in Archibald © Higbie's dilemma: ARCHIBALD HIGBIE I loathed you, Spoon River. I tried to rise above you, I was ashamed of you. I despised you As the place of my nativity. And there in Rome, among the artists, Speaking Italian, speaking French,; I seemed to myself at times to be free Of very trace of my origin. I seemed to be reaching the heights of art, And to breathe the air that the masters breathed, And to see the world with their eyes. But still they'd pass my work and say: "What are you driving at, my friend? Sometimes the face looks like Apollo's, At times it had a trace of Lincoln's." There was no culture, you know, in Spoon River, And I burned with shame and held my peace. And what could I do, all covered over 294 REGGEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And weighted down with western soil, Except aspire, and pray for another Birth in the world, with all of Spoon River Rooted out of my soul? In the New Spoon River: "Meredith Phyphe," "Howard Lamson," "Angela Sanger," "Conrad Herron" and "Gottfried Fruchter."; "Silence," from Doomsday Book is now included in his volume of Selected poems, published 1925, as are selections from Spoon River, old and new, Songs and Satires, and his other various volumes of poetry. The 1926, Selection of Best American Verse, for that year, contains his marvelous poem, "Contentment," which, I believe, was first published in the Mercury. Now if you are afraid of life, do not read Masters at all. He will not soothe you. But if you want to know what great poetry is, what irony and pathos can do for you, how you can develop your own soul, then read Masters again, and again, and yet again.: