Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WAYNE STAKE: The Relief Society conference was held in the Thurber Relief Society hall. Meeting was called to order by Counselor Mary E. Hanks... Said she desired to see the young people step forward in the Church and prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors. Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were represented by their respective presidents. 'Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were also reported by their representatives.... Stake President Jane S. Coleman was pleased with the reports given and felt to thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.... At our meetings we should make choice of elevating subjects, such as virtue, charity... Also to see that our records are kept in good condition. Spoke in very appreciative terms of what the Thurber Relief Society had accomplished.... Through their energy and the assistance of the brethren they have built a fine brick building. —Annie QO. Coleman, Sec. CLARA BARTON: Clara Barton has started for Cuba again with an army of women. 'They carry food for the starving, clothing for the naked, medicine for the sick and succor for the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red Cross women deserve to be voters! —News Note MOTHERS CONGRESS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.: The dispatches bring news of the Mothers Congress now in session in Washington and to which four... Utah women are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson, Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B. Harker, Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo. —News Note MARTIN LUTHER Yet this brave and gifted leader Was tender in his love, In his care for wife and children He was gentle as a dove, In his character was mingled The stern, the fierce, the kind, Defiant when beset by wrong, Yet graceful and refined. —Mary A. Freeze DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION: Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons and daughters with the love of liberty and unity which are the greatest blessings vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study the divine institutions of our country. To make ourselves familiar with the history of our country and with the lives of our great men and women —Clarissa L. S. Williams QUEEN WILHELMINA: A date in mid-September, 1898, will probably be the day upon which Queen Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take the oath of succession to the Dutch throne. No one could have shown more tact in managing affairs of state during her daughter's minority than the Queen Regent, who, like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a person of singularly unpretentious manners. —News Note Page 304 BOXARO OVERSTREET is coauthor with her husband, Harry, of an excellent new book, The Mind Goes Forth. It calls for greater compassion, understanding, and patience toward our fellow human beings. It also comments on the tendency in colleges even in the scientific and technical schools — toward giving the liberal arts an important place in the curriculum. BETsY SNITE, famed skier from Norwich, Vermont, won the women's slalom in the Mont Lachaux trophy meet at Crans-surSerre, Switzerland. She was victorious over Madelaine Chamot-Berthod of Switzerland, the 1956 Olympic women's downhill champion. NANCY LALLY, of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, is the top teenage crocheter of the United States, according to the judges of the 1957 national crocheting contest. She was awarded a prize of $500. Her entry was a set of ten crocheted dolls. UTH MONTGOMERY, a reporter for the International News Service, won the 1957 George R. Holmes award for excellence in reporting. Mr. Holmes was a famed INS Washington Bureau chief, who died in 1939.