[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: The Official Round Table]
young  babies — in  the  tenement  districts,  however — and  these

ROUND  TABLE  103 
mothers  constitute  a  very  large  proportion  of  patrons  at  de- 
partment stores  and  movies  up  in  Harlem  and  on  the  west  side. 
So  enterprising  storekeepers  and  movie  directors  have  estab- 
lished rooms  where  qualified  caretakers,  nurses,  and  doctors 
also  in  attendance — care  for  the  baby  for  fifteen  cents  an  af- 
ternoon.    Can  you  imagine  it? 
Columbia  University. 
Has  just  offered  a  special  short  course  to  train  directors 
of  recreation,  in  co-operation  with  the  National  League  of 
Women  Workers.  One  wonders  if  we  will  need  trainers  by- 
and-by  to  teach  us  how  to  wink  the  eyes. 
Woman  Stage  Manager. 
The  first  woman  stage  manager,  who  is  Mrs.  Lillian 
Trimble  Bradley,  has  made  good  in  New  York. 
Women  Census  Takers. 
Portland  will  have  237  women  and  42  men  census  takers 
this  winter. 
Miss  Mary  Garret  Hay. 
A  long  time  suffrage  worker  has  been  chosen  by  the  Re- 
publicans of  New  York  state  as  a  delegate  for  the  National 
Convention  of  1920,  the  other  two  delegates  being  United 
States  Senators. 
Women  in  Los  Angeles. 
Were  denied  a  place  on  a  jury  in  December.  We  still 
have  some  battles  to  fight.  But  just  why  some  women  should 
want  to  serve  on  juries  is  a  mystery  to  other  women.  We  do 
claim,  however,  the  right  to  do  that  or  anything  else,  or  not 
to  do  that  or  anything  else.  When  women  get  the  full  right 
of  choosing  what  they  will  do  and  what  they  will  leave  undone, 
then  they  will  quietly  swing  back  into  their  rightful  place  and 
the  world  will  move  on  in  its  usual  circles. 
Kamas  Relief  Society  Women. 
A  recent  tribute  in  the  "Deseret  News"  to  the  fine  work 
done  by  the  Kamas  Relief  Society  women  refers  to  the  clean- 
up campaign  instituted  there  by  these  women  who  began  by 
painting  up  their  own  fine  hall,  cleaning  the  lot  on  which  it 
stood,  repairing  the  fence  and  grading  and  gravelling  the  side- 
walk. We  suggest  that  here  is  a  wide  field  for  our  sisters  to 
enter  in  the  stimulation  of  clean-up  campaigns  in  the  districts 
where  they  live.    What  has  been  ^one  can  be  done  again.

104  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD. 
Eastern  States  Mission. 
Miss  Marie  J.  Haselman  has  just  returned  from  the 
Eastern  States  where  she  has  performed  a  splendid  mission  for 
the  L.  D.  S.  Church,  and  where  she,  in  addition,  presided  over 
the  ReHef  Societies  of  the  mission.  She  reports  the  various 
branches  in  good  condition,  and  greatly  interested  in  all 
phases  of  the  Relief  Society  work.  Miss  Haselman  had  the 
pleasure  of  visiting  all  of  the  thirteen  branches  where  she  gave 
detailed  information  and  instruction.  Miss  Haselman's  work 
was  greatly  appreciated  by  President  George  F.  McCune,  of 
the  Eastern  States  mission,  and  by  the  General  Board  of  Re- 
lief Societies. 
Hawaiian  Mission. 
A  Relief  Society  was  recently  organized  at  Kokoike,  Ko- 
hala,  by  Elder  Joseph  D.  Daynes,  and  the  members  of  this 
branch  have  presented  a  beautiful  mat  to  the  Honolulu  Mis- 
sion Home.  Mrs.  Naomi  C.  Bliss,  an  L.  D.  S.  graduate  nurse, 
who  is  laboring  in  Honolulu  with  her  husband,  is  assisting 
very  greatly  in  the  Relief  Society  work. 
California  Mission. 
A  Relief  Society  has  been  organized  at  Sacramento,  and 
much  enthusiasm  is  shown  by  the  members  of  this  branch, 
who  greatly  enjoy  the  opportunity  of  meeting  together  in  a 
common  cause. 
During  the  summer  vacation  members  of  the  Long  Beach 
Relief  Society,  under  the  direction  of  the  president,  Christina 
Larsen  and  counselors,  assisted  by  Mrs.  Louisa  W.  Jones, 
president  of  the  Relief  Societies  of  the  California  mission, 
were  busily  engaged  in  sewing  articles  for  a  bazaar,  the  pro- 
ceeds of  which  were  to  be  donated  toward  the  building  fund  of 
the  new  L.  D.  S.  chapel  in  Long  Beach.  Weekly  sewing  meet- 
ings were  held  and  were  the  means  of  bringing  out  many  of 
the  younger  women  who  had  heretofore  not  been  affiliated 
with  the  Relief  Society,  and  who  became  very  enthusiastic  in 
the  plan.  A  program  was  given  in  connection  with  the  ba- 
zaar which  was  very  greatly  enjoyed.  $200  was  realized  from 
the  sale  of  quilts,  aprons,  rugs  and  various  articles  and  from 
the  sale  of  refreshments.  In  addition  to  the  splendid  results 
financially  the  occasion  was  greatly  enjoyed  from  a  social 
point  of  view.  ,
