[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Jedediah M. Grant]
PRESIDENT  EMMELINE  B.  WELLS 
29  Feb.,  1S28 — 29  Feb.,  1920

PRESIDENT  JEDEDIAH  M.   GRANT 
Born,    21    February,    1816;    died,    1    December,    1856.      First    Counsellor    to 
President  Brigham  Young.

I 
THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  VII  FEBRUARY.  1920  No.  2 
What  Do  We  Know  of  the  Other  Side? 
(Yes;  what  do  we  know  about  the  World  beyond  the  grave?  We 
know  a  great  deal,  and  the  world  knows  very  little.  In  this  article  we 
have  grouped  a  number  of  well-authenticated  descriptions  from  our 
Church  leaders.) 
PREST.  JEDEDIAH  M.  GRANTS  VIEW  OF  THE 
SPIRIT  WORLD. 
A  Memorable  Incident  Recalled  to  Mind 
by  L.  Lula  Greene  Richards 
With  the  several  eventful  days  of  the  present  month, 
February,  the  21st  may  be  noted  and  remembered  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  as  the  birthday  of  one  of  their  early  heroes. 
President  Jedediah  Morgan  Grant,  he  having  been  born  on 
that  date,  in  the  year  1816.  And  on  March  21,  1833,  sixteen 
days  before  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
was  three  years  old,  that  valiant  and  fearless  advocate  of  the 
principles  of  the  restored  gospel  was  received  into  its  sacred 
folds  by  baptism  and  became  a  most  energetic  and  powerful 
teacher,  both  by  word  and  example,  of  the  plan  of  salvation,  as 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Jedediah  M.  Grant,  the  father  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  who  now  presides  as  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  and 
president  of  the  Church,  after  his  baptism  strenuously  de- 
voted his  whole  remaining  earthly  existence  to  the  building 
up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth  and  the  salvation  of 
God's  children. 
In  1854,  when  a  vacancy  was  occasioned  in  the  first  presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  in  Utah,  by  the  death  of  the  second  coun- 
selor. Elder  Willard  Richards,  Brother  Grant  was  chosen  as 
Brother  Richards'  successor. 
A  beautiful  and  enduring  tribute  and  testimony  of  the  love 
and  confidence  with  which  President  Brigham  Young  regarded

66  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
his  counselor,  President  Grant,  was  evinced  in  the  fact  that 
two  sons  of  the  former  were  named  for  the  latter,  but  they 
both  died  in  childhood. 
All  students  of  the  early  history  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  more  or  less  familiar  with 
strikingly  interesting  and  faith  promoting  anecdotes  and 
stories  wherein  Jedediah  M.  Grant  became  noted  for  the 
prompt  inspiration,  brilliant  wit,  and  masterful  logic  with 
which  he  always  succeeded  in  confounding  and  putting  to 
silence  those  who  opposed  his  message  of  truth  as  a  "defender 
of  the  faith."  It  is  not,  however,  the  purpose  of  this  article  to 
reproduce  any  of  those  richly  entertaining  narrations.  Yet, 
the  desire  is  to  recall  briefly  an  account  of  the  most  remark- 
able of  all  President  Grant's  earthly  experiences,  as  related 
by  himself  to  the  brethren  and  his  family,  a  few  days  previous 
to  his  death  which  took  place  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Dec.  1, 
1856,  when  he  was  forty  years  old.  This  last  wonderful  story 
was  repeated  at  President  Grant's  funeral  by  President  Heber 
C.  Kimball  from  whose  discourse  the  following  abridgment  is 
made: 
President  Kimball  told  of  having  visited  Elder  Grant  a 
short  time  before  his  death  and  said,  "He  could  not  speak,  but 
shook  hands  warmly  with  me.  I  laid  my  hands  upon  him  and 
blessed  him  and  asked  God  to  strengthen  his  lungs  that  he 
might  be  easier;  and  in  two  or  three  minutes  he  raised  him- 
self up  and  talked  for  about  an  hour  as  busily  as  he  could  tell 
me  of  what  he  had  seen  and  what  he  understood."  He  said  to 
me,  "Brother  Heber,  I  have  been  into  the  spirit  world  two 
nights  in  succession,  and  of  all  the  dreads  that  ever  came  across 
me,  the  worst  was  to  have  again  to  return  to  my  body,  though 
I  had  to  do  it.  Oh,  the  order  and  government  that  were  there ! 
When  in  the  spirit  world,  I  saw  the  order  of  righteous  men 
and  women;  I  beheld  them  organized  in  their  several  grades, 
and  there  appeared  to  be  no  obstructions  to  my  vision ;  I 
could  see  every  man  and  woman  in  their  grade  and  order.  1 
looked  to  see  if  there  was  any  disorder  there,  but  there  was 
none,  neither  could  I  see  any  death,  nor  any  darkness  or  confu- 
sion. The  people  were  organized  in  family  capacities,  grade 
after  grade,  in  perfect  harmony.  Why  it  is  just  as  Brother 
Brigham  says  it  is ;  just  as  he  has  told  us  many  a  time.  The 
righteous  gathered  together  in  the  spirit  world  and  no  wicked 
spirits  among  them.  I  saw  my  wife,  Caroline,  who  was  the 
first  person  that  came  to  me.  I  saw  many  that  I  knew,  but  did 
not  have  conversation  with  any  but  my  wife.  She  looked 
beautiful  and  had  our  little  child  that  died  on  the  plains  in  her
