[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
GUIDE  LESSONS  61 
resulting  loss  of  sleep  and  rest ;  since  it  is  a  well  known  fact 
that  digestion  is  seriously  affected  by  low  body  tone. 
Forms  of  Malnutrition. 
It  will  be  understood,  of  course,  that  the  term  malnutri- 
tion, is  not  of  absolutely  fixed  meaning  as  various  degrees  of 
wrong  nourishment  are  recognized,  ranging  from  small  ab- 
normalities to  actual  disease  such  as  marasmus,  rachitis,  scor- 
butus, etc.  In  making  physical  examination  of  school  chil- 
dren in  New  York  City  there  has  been  adopted  a  system  of 
grading  on  the  basis  of  condition  of  nourishment.  By  this 
system  children  are  divided  roughly  into  four  grades;  the 
first  including  those  considered  very  well  nourished;  the  sec- 
ond, those  considered  fair  or  normal ;  the  third,  those  requir- 
ing nutritional  supervision ;  the  fourth,  those  requiring  medi- 
cal attention.  The  first  and  second  grades  require  no  special 
attention,  but  every  effort  is  being  made  to  bring  grade  three 
up  to  normal,  and  grade  four  as  near  to  normal  as  may  be 
possible. 
In  Utah  communities  the  commonest  form  of  malnutri- 
tion falls  in  grade  three — the  form  which  may  be  remedied  by 
careful  supervision ;  however,  anemia,  one  of  the  nutritional 
diseases,  is  by  no  means  unknown.  In  the  cities  of  the  east, 
particularly  in  the  foreign  quarters  such  diseases  as  marasmus, 
rachitis  and  scorbutus  are  very  common. 
Distribution. 
Naturally,  one  associates  the  idea  of  malnutrition  with  the 
child  whose  parents  are  unable  to  procure  for  it  enough  whole- 
some food,  but  ignorance  and  indifference  are  as  great  ene- 
mies to  right  nutrition  as  is  poverty,  and  perhaps  harder  to 
vanquish,  so  we  find  various  degrees  of  malnutrition  existing 
among  all  classes  of  children.  Any  child  whose  diet  is  not 
intelligently  supervised  is  in  grave  danger  of  becoming  a  vic- 
tim of  bad  nourishment.  A  short  time  ago  a  professor  in  one 
of  our  large  universities  found  his  fourteen-year-old  son  fall- 
ing behind  in  his  school  work ;  listless,  indolent,  and  irritable 
around  home.  An  expert  was  called  in;  the  diagnosis,  mal- 
nutrition, was  a  distinct  shock  to  the  parents  whose  table  was 
always  set  with  plenty  of  wholesome  food.  Doubtless  the 
mother  was  one  of  those  foohshly  fond  parents  who  says,  "I 
won't  make  my  children  eat  what  they  don't  like,"  disregard- 
ing the  fact  that  one's  likes  and  dislikes  are  often  the  result 
of  wrong  training  from  the  beginning  or  of  entire  lack  of  the
