[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — Homemaking, a Creative Calling Ariel S. Ballif 774]
ology,  literature,  and  social  science  a  single  choral  group.  This  first  in- 
lessons,  the  work  meeting  discus-  ternational  chorus,  composed  of  200 
sions,  and  the  visiting  teacher  mes-  singers  from  England,  Scotland,  Ire- 
sages.  Recordings  will  be  sent  free  land,  Wales,  and  fifty-seven  singers 
to  any  sightless  person  desiring  from  Utah,  was  formed  at  the  direc- 
them.  It  should  be  noted  that  these  tion  of  the  First  Presidency.  The 
records  are  for  the  use  of  the  sight-  chorus  had  as  its  conductor  Sister 
less  only.  Requests  for  them  should  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  with 
be  made  to  the  Society  for  the  Aid  Dr.  Frank  Asper  as  organist,  and 
of  the  Sightless,  47  East  South  Zesta  Geisler  as  pianist.  It  provided 
Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  music  for  the  dedication  of  the 
Utah.  beautiful  new  Hyde  Park  Chapel  in 
London,  which  was  a  distinct  recog- 
Work  Meeting  nition  of  the  Society  by  the  First 
Once  again  the  work  meeting  was  Presidency.     It  also  gave  a  series  of 
the  second  best  attended  meeting,  concerts  in  seven  large  cities  of  Great 
which  is  indicative  of  the   interest  Britain,  beginning  with  a  concert  in 
of    the    sisters    in    improving    their  the  Royal  Albert  Hall  in  London, 
homemaking  and  housekeeping  prac-  As  a  choral  effort  the  tour  was  emi- 
tices.     There    were    approximately  nently  successful.     As  a  missionary 
656,000  articles   completed  in   this  effort,   which    President   Henry   D. 
meeting,    478,000    of    which    were  Moyle  promised  the  sisters  it  would 
sewed  articles.     Variety  of  activity  be,  it  was  an  impressive  accomplish- 
should  enter  into  your  planning  for  ment.    You  have  already  heard  this

REPORT  AND  OFFICIAL  INSTRUCTIONS 
731 
morning  the  Utah  group,  augmented 
by  a  few  of  the  Enghsh  singers. 
At  the  close  of  i960,  Rehef  So- 
ciety had  3,052  Singing  Mothers 
choruses,  seventy-four  fewer  than  the 
previous  year.  There  were,  however, 
approximately  49,500  singers  as  com- 
pared with  approximately  46,000  in 
1959;  that  is,  we  had  about  3,000 
more  women  singing  in  seventy- 
four  fewer  choruses.  Let  us  main- 
tain our  choruses  strong  in  both  the 
number  of  choruses  and  in  the  num- 
ber of  singers. 
At  this  time  mav  I  suggest  to 
mothers  the  desirabilitv  of  giving 
children  music  lessons.  There  seems 
to  be  a  dearth  of  good  organists  for 
Church  use  in  many  areas.  Organ- 
ists cannot  be  trained  for  this  im- 
portant Church  service  overnight. 
They  must  begin  their  study  in 
childhood.  Mothers  are  the  most 
important  influence  in  bringing  this 
about. 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
At  the  close  of  i960,  The  Reliei 
Society  Magazine  subscriptions  to- 
taled 171,002,  an  increase  over 
1959  of  8,196.  There  were  284 
stakes  and  twenty  missions  on  the 
Honor  Roll.  The  South  Los  Angeles 
Stake  again  attained  the  highest  per- 
centage, 210  per  cent,  with  the 
Western  States  Mission  being  high- 
est among  the  mission  organizations, 
with  a  percentage  of  125  per  cent. 
The  Magazine  is  an  excellent 
medium  whereby  we  may  interest 
non-Latter-day  Saint  women  in  the 
organization  with  a  view  to  enroll- 
ing them  as  members.  In  most 
wards  the  subscription  potential  is 
far  in  excess  of  the  Relief  Society 
membership. 
A  question  has  been  referred  to 
the  General  Board  as  to  whether 
Relief  Society  funds,  as  such,  may 
be  used  to  purchase  Magazines  for 
gifts  to  missionaries  and  others.  The 
General  Board's  position  is  as  fol- 
lows: 
The  general  funds  of  the  local  societies 
are  acquired  for  the  general  operating  ex- 
penses of  the  Society.  Certain  allowances 
are  made  in  the  Handbook  of  Instructions 
of  the  Relief  Society  for  their  limited  use 
in  the  purchase  of  gifts.  The  General 
Board  feels  that,  in  addition  to  those  uses 
listed  in  the  Handbook,  the  occasional  use 
of  general  funds  in  making  a  gift  of  a 
Magazine  subscription  to  a  member  who 
might  be  aged  or  homebound  and  unable 
to  purchase  her  own,  or  to  a  sister  newly 
converted  to  the  Church  as  a  means  of 
acquainting  her  with  the  work  of  Relief 
Society,  or  to  others  who  might  be  in 
need  of  considered  attention  by  the  So- 
ciety, is  justified.  Further,  it  is  the  opinion 
of  the  General  Board  that  the  purchase  of 
a  Magazine  subscription  from  Relief  Society 
funds  for  an  officer  or  a  class  leader,  who 
otherwise  could  not  have  it,  is  justifiable. 
Where  stake  Relief  Society  presidents  have 
felt  that  special  activities  might  be  en- 
gaged in,  without  hardship  to  the  sisters, 
whereby  funds  could  be  acquired  for  giving 
gift  subscriptions,  and  where  the  sisters 
participating  are  fully  apprised  of  the  pur- 
pose for  which  the  funds  are  to  be  used, 
the  General  Board  has  not  discouraged 
the  activities.  We  are  influenced  in  this 
by  the  proselyting  value  of  the  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  by  the  \'aluable  use  to 
which  gift  subscriptions  are  put  b\-  the 
missions,  and  by  the  steady  flow  of 
expressions  of  gratitude  which  reach  us 
from  mission  presidents. 
Sisters,  we  remind  you  that  with 
the  discontinuance  by  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  use  of  the  fast 
Sunday  evenings  by  the  auxiliaries, 
except  the  Primary,  ward  Relief  So- 
ciety conferences  will  be  held  onlv 
as  directed  bv  the  local  Priesthood 
authorities,  from  whom  directives, 
also,  will  be  received  as  to  the  pro- 
gram to  be  followed.    No  programs

732 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER    1961 
will  be  issued  hereafter  and  no  direc- 
tions will  be  given  by  the  General 
Board.  No  record  will  be  made  of 
ward  Relief  Society  conferences  in 
summary  tables  of  the  Ward  Record 
Book  or  in  the  Annual  Report,  since 
these  meetings  will  no  longer  be 
held  at  the  direction,  or  under  the 
supervision,  of  the  General  Board. 
Of  course,  where  a  ward  Relief  So- 
ciety Conference  is  held  in  connec- 
tion with  a  Relief  Society  meeting, 
minutes  would  be  kept  as  a  part  of 
the  minutes  of  that  meeting. 
Hmidhook  oi  Instructions 
The  General  Board  contemplated 
issuing  a  revised  edition  of  the 
Hmidhook  oi  Instructions  oi  the 
Reliei  Society.  The  fast  growth  of 
our  Relief  Societies,  with  an  increas- 
ing number  of  stakes  in  foreign 
lands,  as  well  as  other  circumstances, 
have  caused  us  to  withhold  the  re- 
vision for  the  time  being.  We  an- 
nounce this,  feeling  that  you  who 
may  have  been  holding  off  on  the 
purchase  of  Handbooks  in  the  hope 
that  the  revised  edition  would  be 
ready  soon,  may  now  wish  to  obtain 
them. 
ReJiei  Society  Meeting  Day 
We  call  your  attention  to  a 
change  from  the  recommendation 
in  the  Handbook,  page  75,  related  to 
the  day  and  the  hour  for  holding 
the  regular  ward  Relief  Society  meet- 
ings. This  recommendation  has  been 
modified  by  action  of  the  General 
Board  and  is  as  follows. 
The  day  and  hour  for  holding  the  regu- 
lar weekly  ward  meeting  for  the  general 
membership  may  be  set,  in  consultation 
with  the  bishop,  on  a  day  and  at  an  hour 
most  convenient  for  the  greatest  number 
of  women  within  the  ward  or  branch 
eligible  for  membership  in  the  Society. 
It  is  not  required  that  this  be  uni- 
form within  all  wards  of  the  stake. 
The  statement  in  the  Handbook 
related  to  Sunday  meetings  remains 
the  position  of  the  Board. 
Generally  speaking,  we  note  the 
funds  of  stake  and  local  Relief  So- 
cieties are  adequate  to  meet  the 
general  operating  expenses,  with  the 
possible  exception  of  newly  created 
stakes,  particularly  those  in  foreign 
countries.  We  suggest  to  presidents 
of  these  stakes  a  careful  reading  of 
the  section  on  "Funds''  in  the  Hand- 
book, pages  111-114. 
We  note  a  growing  tendency  for 
Relief  Societies  to  enter  into  ar- 
rangements with  commercial  institu- 
tions to  promote  their  programs  or 
products,  with  the  Society  receiving 
some  financial  compensation  for  so 
doing.  We  call  your  attention  to 
the  instructions  in  the  Handbook, 
'Tarticipation  in  Advertising  Pro- 
grams," page  108.  Relative  to  this, 
I  repeat  instructions  given  in  Gen- 
eral Conference  in  1949  as  follows: 
Relief  Societies  are  occasionally  ap- 
proached by  commercial  institutions  or 
by  individuals  for  the  purpose  of  having 
them  sell  their  product  on  a  commission 
basis.  Such  an  undertaking  should  be 
weighed  carefully  and  the  counsel  of  the 
Priesthood  should  be  sought.  Care  must 
be  exercised  to  make  sure  that  Relief  So- 
ciety does  not  become  a  selling  agent  for 
a  commercial  institution,  that  it  does  not 
appear  to  be  promoting  one  product  over 
a  similar  one  of  another  company,  and 
that  people  or  institutions  are  not  solicited 
in  the  name  of  the  society  to  the  point 
where  the  society  becomes  subject  to 
criticism. 
We  have  recently  had  reports  that 
Relief  Societies  are  again  being  so- 
licited by  commercial  companies  to 
enter  into  contract  with  them  to 
engage  in  the  publication  and  distri- 
bution of  a  cookbook  or  calendar.

REPORT  AND  OFFICIAL  INSTRUCTIONS 
733 
Some  of  our  Relief  Societies  have 
had  unfortunate  experiences  with 
such  projects,  being  bound  by  a  con- 
tract to  guarantee  certain  fees  or 
payments  to  the  company,  or  to  so- 
licit business  houses  in  the  name  of 
Relief  Society  with  the  commercial 
company  being  the  main  beneficiary. 
We  advise  all  ward  Relief  Societies 
not  to  sign  any  such  contract  with- 
out first  consulting  the  stake  Relief 
Society  president  who,  in  turn,  is 
requested  to  refer  the  matter  to  the 
General  Board. 
Conclusion 
In  conclusion,  sisters,  may  I  thank 
you,  on  behalf  of  the  General  Board, 
for  vour  devoted  and  capable  service 
to  Relief  Society.  Continue  to 
build  Relief  Society  by  enlisting  the 
support  of  the  thousands  of  capable, 
gifted,  virtuous  women  who  should 
be  active  members.  Build  within 
these  sisters  a  positive  faith  in  the 
basic,  eternal  principles  of  life. 
Teach  them  the  divine  plan  for  their 
happiness  and  eternal  w^ell-being. 
Help  them  to  live  each  day  eagerly, 
courageously,  and  happily.  Place  on 
ever-higher  planes  the  devoted  serv- 
ices we  were  organized  to  carry  on, 
and  the  Lord  will  bless  your  efforts. 
You  have  the  love  and  confidence  of 
the  General  Board  in  your  respon- 
sible callings.
