[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Madsen]
In addressing Relief Society, President McKay declared: The responsibility of the Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the Kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no one way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home building (Relief Society Magazine, January 1936, page 10). In these words President McKay enumerates four areas in which Relief Society has responsibilities, not one of which is outmoded. The first responsibility which President McKay lays upon Relief Society is "to aid the Priesthood in establishing the Kingdom of God." One means by which Relief Society fulfills this assignment is in giving service to the Welfare Plan as it has been adapted today to meet today's needs. Working under the direction of the Priesthood, Relief Society presidents visit sisters in the homes where there is need, but all members of Relief Society are expected to give service in sewing and canning. Relief Society also gives service in fund-raising activities for welfare, such as in cooking dinners. Countless hours of hard work are contributed willingly and cheerfully by Relief Society members in this field. Another way in which Relief Society is aiding is in raising money for the erection of meetinghouses. Many times in visiting stakes we are told, "We want to do everything we can to help with our building program. We want a beautiful chapel for our children, and we are working hard to contribute." Upon our return, two or three years later, what joy 722 shines in the sisters' faces as we meet in a new building and with what pride they show us around. The second responsibility which President McKay outlines is "in relieving the suffering and_ giving succor to the poor." Have you ever spent a few days in two homes — one in which the mother was not a member of Relief Society and one in which she was an active member? The world looks quite different from the two homes. 'There is time in the first home for a round of entertaining. After the family is cared for, the remaining time is reasonably free for pleasure and enjoyment. Then recall your visit in the Relief Society home. 'The entertaining is sandwiched in as the mother goes visiting teaching, calls on the sick, and attends her weekly meeting with you as a captive visitor. You overhear her promising an officer to give additional help after her guest has left. Her family also is cared for, but in addition, her days are filled to overflowing — and even some evening hours as she goes about doing good. Relief Society today relieves suffering and gives succor on a wellorganized, well-directed basis, with sisterly solicitude for the poor in worldly goods, the poor in spirituality, and the poor in health. A third responsibility President McKay gave to Relief Society was "in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world." I feel that the public relations of Relief Society members, situated in over fifty countries of the world, are a force in contributing peace and happiness in the world. I believe our own President Spafford is the outstanding example in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 regard. She has visited many countries and, under the direction of the Priesthood, she has established and nurtured good relations with innumerable women outside the Church. Her friendliness, astute judgment, and rectitude are recognized. If a woman does not, at first, meet President Spafford halfway, President Spafford does not withdraw, rather she intensifies her good will and wins the woman over, engendering and establishing peaceful, happy relationships. 'These opportunities have come to President Spafford through Relief Society. They come to every member of Relief Society as the work carries her among her fellows. While a member may not travel widely herself, others will travel to her. I wish each Relief Society member would emulate the example of President Spafford. In concluding his statement, President McKay declared, "In no one way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home building." Sisters, no matter where or how far our Relief Society work extends, we always come back to the crucial, basic question, "Am I excelling in home building?" Note that President McKay did _ not say, housekeeping or homemaking, but home building — building a home which will develop into a celestial home. Relief Society teaches and trains women to be home builders. It recognizes that a testimony of the gospel is the foundation, and it strengthens testimonies, teaches truth, trains a woman in homemaking skills, imparts wisdom to train RELIEF SOCIETY TODAY NEEDS YOU her children — all to strengthen and fortify the member to be a home builder. If we agree that Relief Society is still needed in the four areas that President McKay delineated, then may we ask the question, "What women are accomplishing this work which expands as the Church expands?" Where the work is so arduous, time-consuming, and vital to the well-being of Latter-day Saints, surely every Latter-day Saint woman is rendering her full assistace.,, "Oh," says one, "but so many women are working today, they cannot attend the Relief Society meetings." 'That is a true statement and reveals a regrettable situation, for those sisters lose much priceless association with the sisterhood and individual progress gained through the wealth of knowledge and joy gained from attendance at the weekly meeting; but is Relief Society synonymous with the meetings, is it only at the weekly meetings that Relief Society aids the Priesthood in establishing the kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, in contributing to the peace and happiness of the world, in excelling in home build- 723 ing? Are all these things accomplished at the meetings? The answer is obviously no. Any employed sister can give service to Relief Society as her circumstances permit and make a real contribution to Relief Society — bringing eternal joy into her life through such service. She can grow closer to the sisterhood by reading The Relief Society Magazine and studying the lesson work. As we visit in stakes, we are sometimes told, "So much is expected of Relief Society that many of the sisters won't join and some husbands don't want their wives working so hard." Well, sisters, those who do not belong and actively support Relief Society, what is the reason for not joining the greatest woman's organization on the face of the earth, divinely inspired and called to serve the Priesthood of God? Perhaps some may answer, they haven't been invited. Here is an invitation to every nonmember, to the newest convert, and to every other virtuous woman. Work awaits you, earnest work. And joy awaits you, everlasting joy, here and hereafter. Joy that comes through serving under a motto, "Charity Never Faileth."" Won't every sister accept the invitation? November Afternoon Dorothy ]. Roberts Beauty leaves no land or heart Forsaken and bereft, But faith will find a remnant and Some sign of promise left. Relief Society — A Bulwark for Women Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961] recent issue of a prominent A women's magazine contained a portfolio of paintings with text delineating the suffrage-forwomen movement. The formal beginning of the movement took place in upstate Seneca Falls, New York, on Wednesday and Thursday, July 19 and 20, 1848. Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton were the two chief leaders who arranged this noteworthy convention. The article states that by carriages and farm wagons, the first American suffragettes assembled, and that Mrs. Mott's husband had to preside, because no woman knew enough parliamentary procedure to preside. More than six years before another group of women had met in a momentous meeting and heard the Prophet of the Lord state, "I now declare this society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usage." He taught them a form of parliamentary procedure for conducting meetings, which procedure is still characteristic of Relief Society meetings. "From that very hour on the Thursday afternoon of March 17, 1842, began the advancement in privileges, rights, and material comforts which women now enjoy" (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14). From that very hour there existed a society to Page 724 which women could look for guidance, for uplift, in which they could give service, upon which they could depend to be well taught in various fields, and from which they could gain assurance and peace of mind. The society has not experienced the ups and downs and final dissolution that have come to most organizations which had their beginnings in those early days. It has not been driven nor wind-tossed, but has had the guidance of prophets of the Lord who have from time to time given instruction which they felt it should have. It could well be imagined that in every generation someone had said words to the effect that "These are the times that try men's souls." Surely, there was never more truth in this statement than now. The people search for security and long for peace. Some think they can be found only in the acquisition of material things. Others think they can be found only in preparedness for great emergencies. Some think security can never be found. But the Lord has given us this comforting assurance, "Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (D & C 6:34). Relief Society is a guidepost to wom- RELIEF SOCIETY — A BULWARK FOR WOMEN 725 en in helping them direct their own lives so that they can cling to his rock. Relief Society is a bulwark to the women in this time when godlessness is rampant in the world, when the disciples of evil are proclaiming their wicked doctrines and endeavoring to entice and convert to their way of life those who are unwary and who have not built upon the rock, nor learned to do good. Disturbing news comes to us of the efforts made by some women in the world to infiltrate into established women's organizations in an attempt to gain leadership and unrighteous power over other women. How fortunate we are in Relief Society. Our officers are chosen by the power of the Priesthood, under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. No one can assume leadership in our organization but those who are called and set apart by those in authority. Relief Society women are safeguarded from false doctrine because those whom God has chosen, members of the Priesthood, approve the lessons. Every sister can rely completely upon Relief Society and can have absolute assurance that activity in this society is activity in righteousness. Nothing in the world gives peace in one's innermost heart and the sincere sense of well-being that living the gospel brings. HE sisters of Relief Society have always been courageous women. The resources of courage spring from a basic philosophy of high ideals. Courageous people, as a rule, have faith, a firm conviction of the tightness of their cause, and a spirit of responsibility. They have purpose in their lives. The world needs courageous women, unafraid to live as the Lord would have them live, unafraid to stand firm against all evil, unafraid to fight for the right. The sisters of Relief Society will always be courageous women. As the colors of a kaleidoscope constantly change with each tiny movement, and endless variations of pattern appear — so does the world appear to many who see only the changes and do not recognize the firm foundation of things that are changeless. 'There is constancy amid change. Constant are the laws of God, constant are his commandments, and ever constant his love for his children. Constant is the need for faith, for righteousness, and for serving God through service to his children. Constant are the goals and purposes of Relief Society, and constant it stands as a bulwark for the women who come under its influence. G Lift My &yes Gladys Hesser Burnham I lift my eyes from sunset-shrouded hills, The last blaze fading into somber gray, Unto a bnilliant, golden cloud Still hugging last of sun's bright ray, To know that just beyond our fading sight Is promise of a brighter day.