[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bib | Author: Breeze]
[Bib Made From a Terry Towel Janet W. Breeze]

He had gathered the fireplace stones from his land, choosing them carefully. He had cut each one neatly in half, and placing one half on a side of the fireplace, he had put the other piece in a corresponding place. On the other side. It was a real work of art when it was completed. Vic had a way with him in working with wood or stone. "It's a gift, Vic. A real talent," Ruth had told him. "When you build our house it will have the most beautiful finishing work of any place around." "I know it is a gift," Vic had answered modestly, "and you know, Ruth, if I had my choice of all the talents in the world, this is the one I would choose. I have no desire to be a great musician, painter, or anything of the like, but to make things of wood — that's the thing he did when he was here." "He?" asked Ruth, puzzled. "Jesus. Ve always wondered what his masterpiece was, what was the most beautiful thing he ever made. I know just how the wood felt, smooth and good to his touch. Of course," Vic added, "his real masterpiece was his life and the pattern he set for the rest of us to follow." Ruth Ann had known when she married Vic of his deep faith in God and of late she had sensed a change in him. It seemed to be a more personal kind of faith, as of now. Sometimes when he spoke of Jesus, it seemed that he was talking about a personal friend. She knew his attitude was in some way connected with his daily reading of The Book of Mormon, and it gave her a vague sense of uneasiness. 756 It was late when Vic returned to the cabin. Ruth knew it was well past midnight. 'To avoid any discussion or argument, she pretended to be asleep. I HEN the blow fell, Ruth felt as if she had been expecting it, without actually knowing what it was to be. Vic had gone into the village three nights in a_ row. 'Through the intervening days, Ruth had forced herself to be civil, but she had made no attempt to break through the barrier they both felt growing between them. Then, on the fourth morning, he put down his fork at the breakfast table and looked at her. "Ruth, I must tell you something. I'm going to be baptized and join the Mormons. 'They have the true gospel of Christ, with authority to teach and baptize, just as he did." The words fell on Ruth's ears. She wasn't sure yet just what they meant. "Well," she said, "I guess you may as well join them. You're spending most of your time with them anyway." "You must understand, Ruth. It doesn't mean just becoming a member. It means moving to Kirtland, Ohio, and joining with the other Mormons there." Ruth was stunned. "You can't mean it, Vic. Leave your land? Go farther west? Leave here when youre getting started so well? You've done so well in this little time. Next year we can build another room and. " Ruth stopped. Looking across the table at Vic, she saw the muscles move along the line of his jaw. Vic was deadly serious. Ruth arose and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 left the cabin, walking out to the edge of the clearing where she sat down on a fallen log. Strange, she thought, that I am defending this place when at one time I so dreaded the thoughts of living here. Vic's words came back to her as she had heard them on the first night they had stood here together after their marriage. 'Virgin land, it is, Ruth," he had said. "It is mine and I must clear it myself. With God as my partner, I will grow the finest crops in the country." Ruth remembered again how proud she had been of his determination and strength. She disliked feeling that she had held him back, yet she knew that, without her, he would have pushed on to the edge of civilization. A new realization of his great love for her had been almost overwhelming. NLY now did it occur to Ruth what it must mean to Vic to go. This land had seemed almost a part of him. Surely the force that drew him away from it was strong. She didn't know where Kirtland was, but it sounded as if it were a long way. There would be the task of trying to move her things by wagon, taking care of them through rain and mud, dirt and heat. Vic would have to find a buyer. Mrs. Walker had spoken only last week of wanting to buy Ruth's house and of a brother who wanted a farm. She looked up as Vic sat beside her. "Tm sorry, Ruth. I appreciate what I'm asking you to do, but I cannot live and do otherwise. This means more to me than my life. You don't want to hear it from me, but BECAUSE OF THE WORD if you would only listen to the missionaries, Ruth, I'm sure they could make you understand how I feel.", "I've seen it before, Vic, when a new idea almost took possession of you. It seems that this one has. How do you know you won't be over it by next week?" "My whole life won't be long enough to help others to see and understand the truth as I do. I have to go. Will you come with me, Ruth?" "Yes, Vic," answered Ruth. "Didn't I marry you for better or worse? I'm not at all sure which this is going to be, but I am not backing down on my bargain." Ruth had seen Vic many times intent on his own purposes, but she had never seen him make plans with such urgency. She was glad that he delayed leaving until he had disposed of their property, yet a little dismayed that he would go without receiving payment. Although he had an agreement with Mrs. Walker to collect the payments and send them on to him, Ruth felt it a little impractical to leave without getting the money. "Tm not really worried about getting paid for my place," Ruth told him. "Mrs. Walker and her brother both will pay as they can. But you sold to a total stranger. How you can leave your land in his hands with that small down payment, is more than I can see. What if he never pays the rest?" "I have confidence in him, Ruth, and yet, somehow, it doesn't seem to matter really whether he does or not. The important thing for me right now is to get to Kirtland and to get there as fast as I can." 757 "It isn't like you, Vic, to do impulsive things." "T confess, Ruth, I don't understand it myself. 'There is a force that seems to be driving me, as if I were needed there. I know that sounds foolish, but I confess I am almost powerless to fight against it, and the strange thing is, I have no desire to do so." IC busied himself in seeing that the wagon, harnesses, and horses were ready and Ruth started the packing. She was taking her bedstead, though there was not room for much of their furniture. She had Vic help her wrap the few pieces in quilts and pieces of wagon covers to get the furniture there in as good condition as possible. The biggest problem was the set of china Quinton had sent for her wedding present. "What can I wrap these in, Vic?" she asked. "I don't mind so much about my other dishes. But these, they're all I have to." Vic looked at her strangely. "All you have to remind you of the life you could have had. Ruth, I've been such a disappointment to you. Don't think I am unaware of it. Do you think about Boston a lot?" "Of course not," Ruth replied quickly, turning away. "It is just that these are expensive dishes and I don't want to break them in moving. Sometime I will have a house to match their beauty." "I could take your old wooden trunk and fill it a layer at a time with oats, a layer of oats and a layer of dishes. I believe we can get the whole set to Kirtland that way, that is, if we can find enough pasturage at night for the horses and do not have to feed them the oats." 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 It amazed Ruth that her heart was so heavy in leaving the little cabin and her own farm that had often been a burden to her. As the miles fell away behind their wagon, her characteristically good nature rose, and she entered into the spirit of the trip, determined to enjoy it. Contrary to her fears, the weather was beautiful and the moon almost full for the first few nights out. As they sat around their campfire, listening to the sounds of the night and the contented munching of the horses, the strain between them vanished, and Ruth felt closer to Vic than she had for a number of days. Yic tried, as he had many times, to tell her more about the beliefs of the Mormons but, as always, Ruth found herself changing the subject. One evening she inadvertently brought up the subject herself, when she mentioned her stay with her aunt in Palmyra. "Palmyra?" cried Vic, completely startled. "I knew you had visited an aunt, but you never mentioned Palmyra. You actually stayed there all that time?' Vic turned to her and grasped her arms firmly. "Ruth, did you see the hill?" "Vic, you're hurting me," said Ruth, loosening herself from his grip. "Did you see it, Ruth? You've actually been there where the Prophet found the' golden plates? Tell me!"' "Cumorah? Yes, Aunt Marintha and I went out there several times. You know, people still come and try to find gold on it. The once side is quite broken up with digging." Ruth laughed. "We didn't bother to take our shovels along." "Did you go to the grove, Ruth?" "The what?" "The grove. The place where the Father and the Son actually appeared to the boy, Joseph. Ruth, you must tell me. Did you stand on that ground, too? And if you did I fail to see how you can remain uninterested in the gospel message." Ruth looked at the face she knew and loved so well, his eyes bright with concern. At times Vic almost frightened her by his intensity. "No," answered Ruth. "Aunt Marintha didn't bother to take me there. She took a kind of joking interest in the story of finding the gold plates, but she said she didn't hold with stories about angels and visions and the like." She watched Vic's strong, handsome face so earnest in the firelight. "You say you can't understand how I can remain uninterested. Well, what I fail to see is how you can get so fired up over an Indian tale." "Ruth, this book is much more than an Indian legend could be. It tells of Jesus in his resurrected, glorified body, appearing to the people nght here on the American Continent. I treasure this truth above all the riches of the world. Why, I would not trade the knowledge I have found for the most beautiful farm in the country." "Nor for me," said Ruth. Vic moved close and took Ruth in his arms. "I could never give it up now. At last I have found men who truly have authority to minister in holy things. My hope is not to ever trade you for it, Ruth, but to share it with you." (To be continued) Lesson LESSON DEP. DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 37 — "Those That Seek Me Early Shall Find Me" (Proverbs 8:17) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 48 and 54) For Tuesday, February 6, 1962 Objective: To realize that everyone is acceptable to the Lord through obedience to his commandments. Introduction Will the great increase in Church membership in Ohio which was initiated by missionaries sent to the Lamanites, and with the prophesied movement of our people to the frontiers of the United States, as early as December 1830 the Lord commanded his people to gather to the Ohio Valley. (See D & C 37:3.) The promise of the "Law to the Church" was made at Kirtland, Ohio, at the beginning of 1831 (Ibid., 38:32). The revelation concerning James Covill (Ibid., Section 39) contained a promise to the saints that "Inasmuch as my people assemble themselves at the Ohio, I have kept in store a blessing such as is not known among the children of men, and it shall be poured forth upon their heads" (verse 15). Subsequent events revealed that this promise was fulfilled in the wonderful endowment poured out upon the Church in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood (Ibid., Sec. 110). As the spirit of gathering took hold of the saints, they began to gather in Ohio in the spring of 1831, not long after the arrival of the Prophet Joseph Smith in Kirtland (Ibid., Section 41). Because of this gathering, the people in Ohio were concerned as to where these immigrants would locate permanently and also as to how land would be obtained for them. Section 48 As a result, the Lord made known his will to the Prophet as recorded in Section 48. The saints already settled in that area were to keep their land and not, at that time, move farther west, for the location Page /59 760 of the City of Zion had not been revealed. 'They were to save their money, however, that an inheritance might be obtained in Zion when they received the command to gather at that place. (See I[bid., 48:1, 4, 5, 6.) In the meantime, as the members of the Church arrived from the East, the Ohio saints were to divide their lands with these newcomers. If this was not sufficient, other lands were to be purchased in nearby places. (See Ibid., verses 2-3.) Law of Consecration According to Section 51, Bishop I; dward Partridge was appointed to assign the saints to their lands and to organize them as commanded. Fach person was to receive his portion according to his needs; that is, "every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs" (D&C 51:3). The surplus above the family's needs was to be put into a storehouse for the use of the poor and needy of the Church under the direction of the bishop as the needs of the people demanded. In this way the law of consecration was partially put into practice as a preparation for the time when the City of Zion was to be built. The Colesville, New-York, Branch of the Church moved to Thompson, Ohio, at this time, and the Lord extended to them the "privilege" of organizing under the United Order or the law of consecration. (See D & C 51:15.) As the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary points out, it was not a command, but some day the saints will be required to live the law of consecration (page 300). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 Trouble at Thompson, Ohio These saints from New York State, with some who were already in 'Thompson, Ohio, found themselves in difficulties because some of them did not keep the covenant of the United Order. As Elder B. H. Roberts observed, "It is difficult to determine with exactness in what the transgressions of the Saints at Thompson consisted; but it is evident that selfishness and rebellion were at the bottom of their trouble, and that Leman Copley and Ezra Thayer were immediately concerned in it" (D. H. C. 1:180). Brother Roberts quotes Newel Knight's Journal that a man by the name of Copley had a considerable tract of land in Thompson which he offered to let the saints use in agreement with a contract drawn up for this purpose. Leman Copley, however, broke this agreement. Thereupon, Newel Knight represented the saints at Thompson in consulting the Prophet at Kirtland concerning these difficulties. Section 54 From these circumstances the Lord, in answering the prayer of his Prophet for guidance, recognized the faithfulness of those who, in good faith, endeavored to live by the covenants which they had made. Among these was Newel Knight who was to keep the assignment already given to him. (See D&C 52:32.) As always, the faithful are promised blessings commensurate with their deeds; and so, those who kept the covenant at Thompson should "obtain mercy." (See D & C 54:0; Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 315-316. ) On the other hand, the rebellious LESSON DEPARTMENT — covenant-breakers in this case — were to know that "Wo to him by whom this offense cometh, for it had been better for him that he had been drowned in the depth of the sea" (D & C 54:5). 'This reminds one of the same truth uttered by Jesus concerning those who would offend his children. (See Luke 17:1-2.) Newel Knight was informed in this revelation that "If your brethren desire to escape their enemies, let them repent of all their sins, and become truly humble before me and contrite" (D & C 54:3). In speaking of the enemies that the Latterday Saints should fear, President Joseph F. Smith has said: For my part I do not fear the influence of our enemies from without, as I fear that of those from within. An open and avowed enemy, whom we may see and meet in an open field, is far less to be feared than a lurking, deceitful, treacherous enemy hidden within us, such as are many of the weaknesses of our fallen human nature, which are too often allowed to go unchecked, beclouding our minds, leading away our affections from God and _ his truth, until they sap the very foundations of our faith and debase us beyond the possibility or hope of