LESSON I. Theology and Testimony.
First Week in January.

The Bible clearly teaches the principle of vicarious salvation or the truth that men after death have an opportunity of hearing the gospel and accepting the same. This truth is taught in that sacred volume by reference to the principle itself and by illustrations of the doctrine. It was thoroughly understood by the Jews and was moreover so holy and sacred a subject that the details of this symbolic ordinance were kept secret in their written books for general use among the people. The Bible is a store-house of truths, principles, and historical facts. If it were silent on the principle of salvation beyond the veil, wonder would arise in the mind of the student concerning the reasons for this silence. Bible testimony proves the universality of God's love and saving grace; but the knowledge of its application to the dead was lost after the Savior's crucifixion through the apostate period that followed that event.

In the Old Testament times, Moses evidently understood the endowment ceremonies, although it is probable that only a portion thereof was delivered to Aaron and his sons. The Lord tells him, Exodus, chapter 28, how to proceed with Aaron and his sons. He says, "Take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, * * * And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, for glory and for beauty. * * * And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate, and ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and girdle; and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office." (Chapter 29:5.) "And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod. * * * And put the bonnets upon them, then thou shalt take the anointing oil and pour it upon his head and anoint him." (Leviticus, Chap. 8.) "And Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water, and he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head and anointed him, and Moses brought Aaron's sons, and put coats upon them and girded them with girdles and put bonnets upon them."

The sacred garments and robe of pure white linen were covered with the richly embroidered and matchlessly beautiful coat and ephod to cover from sight the sacred garments of the Priesthood. The linen bonnet itself was covered with a rich mitre or crown, which likewise hid the sacred covering from eyes of the multitude. This custom has survived as a remnant of tradition in the crown and clothing of the pope of Rome, and most of the crowned heads of Europe at their coronation.

When the temple was built in Jerusalem, Solomon erected an immense font of brass supported by twelve colossal lions which was drained every evening and filled with water every morning by machinery. This was not the lavers which were used for the cleansing of the priests and for the preparation of the sacrifices. There were ten of these lavers which were moveable and which were kept within the porch of Solomon. In our own temples a similar font for baptismal purposes both for the living and for the dead has been instituted. President Young and Orson Pratt are authority for the statement that this font was no doubt used for the baptism of the dead amongst the Jews as referred to by Paul in the First Corinthians 15:29.

The vicarious nature of the gospel was understood by the ancients. David cries out, "Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell;" while Isaiah declares that the Lord through the Messiah "shall open the blind eyes, bringing out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house." Obadiah prophesies that saviors shall come upon Mt. Zion; while Malachi closes the canon of the old scriptures with a most remarkable testimony concerning this principle. He tells us that the Lord will send Elijah before the last great day of the Lord, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and of the children to the fathers. To this day every Jew, in his observance of the Passover season, opens the door at a certain part of that service for the entrance of Elijah; and strange to say at the period in the very night when this service was being enacted on the third day of April, 1836, Elijah himself came to the temple in Kirtland and restored the keys of this principle of vicarious salvation to the prophet Joseph Smith.

The New Testament contains a number of references which prove the familiarity of the Jews, and especially of the disciples of Jesus, with this principle. John tells us in 5:25, "the dead shall hear the voice of Jesus," and John 11:25-26 asserts that believers after death shall live; while Peter describes to us in chapter 720 . 3:18-20 how Jesus preached to the spirits in prison and refers in 4:6 to how they shall be judged; while Paul asks the Jews in Corinthians 15:29 how they can doubt the resurrection when they themselves are baptized for the dead.

Life's affections would be severed and progress would be stopped without this eternal and glorious principle. The responsibility of daily life rests upon each individual, who accepts the gospel, to take practical steps for the fulfillment of our belief in salvation beyond the veil.

1. What is the Bible?
2. What do you understand by vicarious salvation?
3. How does redemption for the dead prove the universality of God's love and saving grace?
4. What does the Old Testament say concerning this principle? (Exodus, Chap. 28, Leviticus, Chap. 8, Numbers, Chap. 20, First Kings 7:23-40.)
5. Read chapters 3 and 4 of Malachi.
6. What can you say of Peter's reference to the spirits in prison?
7. Describe, if you can, the burial service in the Episcopalian church as given in the common prayer book. What do Christian ministers understand concerning the sentence they thus read at every burial service?
8. What is your attitude in practical life towards this principle?

Note: The practical labor for this month may be the emphasizing of the Relief Society Annual Day in the temples.

LESSON II. Work and Business.
Second Week in January.
LESSON III. Book of Mormon Lesson
Third Week in January.
"And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more" (II Nephi 12:4).

"And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost; and if they endure unto the end, they shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountain shall they be" (I Nephi, 13:37). Through such passages, as we have quoted, we are made conscious of the fact that the peoples of this continent had a vision of that peace which is to come, just as the people of Bible lands had a like vision. A fact often reiterated in these lessons is that God works on natural principles to bring about his righteous purposes in the earth. Every great cause has its forerunners, its champions, those who make tremendous sacrifices that eventually a great ideal may become a reality. Let us call to mind, for an instant, those who have toiled on and sacrificed for such causes as prohibition and woman suffrage. When the day of perfect peace shall arrive, no man knows, but that it will come none doubt who have faith in the holy scriptures. It would seem that there are forces at work in the world today that may mark the beginning of such a blessed culmination. At any rate, many in the seats of the mighty, as well as the more humble walks of life, have exerted their utmost power to bear tidings of peace. Let us review for a brief paragraph or two some of the efforts that have been made towards the establishment of peace. The forerunner of the war-like preparations that we have witnessed of late (particularly in Great Britain and the United States), was most intensive work for peace. Men and women were wrought upon in many ways to work for it. Theodore Roosevelt, while yet president of the United States, did much towards negotiating peace between Russia and Japan. Presidents Taft and Wilson have each in their respective administrations made peace an issue of first importance. To turn to Great Britain: Edward VI was signalled as the Peace King; Sir Edward Grey, Britain's great foreign secretary, at present minister from Great Britain to the United States, had peace on the lead in his policy of state. Mr. Edwin Ginn placed much of his large fortune on the altar of peace, financing the work of David Starr Jordan on the lecture platform, and Mrs. Fanny Fern Andrews in the school. Much of the fortunes of Andrew Carnegie and of Henry Ford has been expended for this same purpose. Nor have women been silent. The International Council of Women, led by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, held annual peace meetings under its auspices, and passed peace resolutions. Every state had its peace committee of influential citizens. The voices of such women as Lady Aberdeen, Jane Addams, Mrs. Philip North-Moore, and Ida Tarbell, have swelled the chorus; and, be it remembered, that the last public utterances of Dr. Anna Howard Shaw was a plea for the establishment of peace. In considering this subject we must not forget that in the beautiful forest of the Hague stands a palace that is known to all the world as the Peace Palace of the Hague. The climax of all this effort is a plan for a League of Nations. William Penn, the good Quaker brother, had conceived such a plan many years before. The plan before the world at present was brought into being at the Peace Conference that recently sat in Paris. It has been adopted by the parliaments of three great nations, and is at present being debated by the Senate of the United States. All this effort must point somewhere. When God inspires men in different lands and in different climes towards the same end it has usually been deeply significant. Are we justified in thinking that the effort put forth for peace will be an exception to this rule? It will be recalled that two men, one in America and one in France, conceived the idea of the electric telegraph at about the same time. Much to the chagrin of the French, Mr. Morse got his instruments constructed and working before the Frenchman was ready, and that marvelous message, "What hath God wrought?" was flashed around the world. But the French never forgot it, and gave evidence of their displeasure in a cartoon that appeared in a French paper somewhat later. Morse, the inventor, visited Great Britain, where he received the Maltese Cross from the British government. A French paper published the artist's sketch of Morse with the Cross upon his bosom, and under it placed these words, "In elder days they placed the thief upon the cross, now they place the cross upon the thief." One of the very fascinating lines of investigation that any student may carry on, is a line of study that may lead him to discover how frequently in the progress of this world the same idea has suddenly come into being in lands and climes often remote from one another, and in the hearts and brains of persons of different tongues and vastly different modes of life. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Where in the Bible may the passage of scripture be found saying that they shall beat their swords into plough-shares, etc.? 2. When are we to believe that we shall have a thousand years of peace? 3. Do you think it likely that such a condition could be realized all at once, or must it be of gradual growth? 4. Have the movements for prohibition or suffrage come instantly or have they been of slow growth? Illustrate. 5. Name some persons who have championed suffrage. 6. Name some persons who have championed prohibition. 7. Name some of the prominent advocates of peace in Great Britain and the United States. 8. By what name do we call the peace plan recently presented by the Peace Conference in Paris? 9. What three national parliaments have adopted this plan? 10. At this writing, the United States Senate is still debating the peace plan. When the debate is finished, tell what disposition was made of the plan by the United States Senate. LESSON IV. Social Service HEALTH. Fourth Week in January. Never in the world's history has the universal interest in health education been so keen as today. In times past adenoids, diseased tonsils, bad teeth, defective eyes, disease of the skin, food values, malnutrition, fresh air, relationship of weight to health, nervous affections, germs, etc., received little, if any attention. The physical condition of the child and of the adult was measured chiefly by his ability to walk or talk. The awakening today is due to several reasons, among which are: (1) the humanitarian spirit of the times; (2) the advancement in the field of medicine; (3) the great world war. This is a great humanitarian age.

The foremost leaders in religion, science, health, education, recreation, industry, and social welfare work have for many years been directing their attention to practical improvement along those lines which are most helpful in giving each human being the right to a normal life and the fundamental things which go to make a normal life. One of the most important of these fundamentals is good health. As far back as 1850, Charles Dickens, in his vivid and interesting novels, draws attention to the social evils of the time, and he sets the world to thinking along lines of human improvement and child welfare work. In our own Church there has always been a plan to give humanitarian service, and health education has had a prominent place. Early Church history records that under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith Neighborhood Nursing was introduced into the Relief Society as soon as it was organized. Of Brigham Young's Council, in August, 1846, at Winter Quarters, the following is recorded: "I said that I intended to propose to the councils of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to take care of it." As soon as the pioneers were well established in the Valley the need of health education and nursing service were felt. The companies of immigrants who poured into the Valley were oftentimes afflicted and helpless. Some well-directed and orderly effort at nursing was needed. Dr. Willard Richards, first counselor to President Brigham Young, and himself a physician and the son of a physician, set to work to remedy as well as might be in these pioneer conditions this social need. His wife, Susannah Liptrot, was a graduate nurse from England, and they two organized and taught a Council of Health through a series of courses, first in the old Fort and later in the Fourteenth Ward school house just then built. Almost continuously since that time the Relief Society has maintained a nurse class for both educational and practical purposes.

Recent progress in the field of preventive medicine has intensified interest in the preservation of life. This progress has been brought about by the persistent work of a few leaders in the world of science and medicine, who have recognized the superiority of prevention over cure, and the movement has been popularized by groups of social workers who have felt that information of this kind should be brought to the attention of all the people. Through the discovery that certain mosquitoes carry the germs of yellow fever and malaria, these diseases have been decreased to a minimum, by the destruction of these insects; the discovery that vaccination would prevent smallpox, and antitoxin prevent diphtheria, has taken away the terrors of these diseases; the discovery that typhoid is absolutely preventable by proper sanitary measures is another constructive contribution toward health; the present intelligent crusade against tuberculosis, teaching people that the most important thing to do is to build up such strong resistance that they will not be overcome by this disease, is bound to bring good results; the systematic fight against venereal disease, based on new discoveries with regard to infection and the terrible results that follow infection, as well as regarding treatment, is sure to bring about in the world improved conditions morally as well as physically.

This universal awakening to the importance of health and physical welfare was probably focussed through the great World's War, and it has given added impetus to reform measures. It was appalling to discover that one-third of all men examined by the draft boards were physically unfit for service. The statement of the army surgeons that most of the physical defects for rejection could have been corrected in childhood directed public attention anew to the period of childhood and youth as a golden opportunity for the correction of physical defects. Other statistics that startle one are, that one-half of babies that are born die before they are one year old; that one-third of babies born never get old enough to go to school; and that one-half of those born never live to be forty years of age.

Incident to the war was the dreadful scourge of influenza which swept over the world like a great conflagration, bringing terror into every American home regardless of race or color, wealth or poverty, taking men, women, and children by the thousands. Perhaps it took just such a force as the war to act as a climax in bringing to our realization the fact that physical fitness with all that it involves is the great goal to be sought as a foundation for human efficiency.

At the last session of the Utah State Legislature a new health law was passed which is recognized as being in advance of most of the present-day health legislation and places Utah in the front rank of states which are interested in the welfare of the children who are to be the future citizens of this great country. Our General Board favored this bill because of the far-reaching benefits which it would bring to the children of the whole state, by providing for a comprehensive program of health education in the schools. In addition this bill gives boards of education and superintendents the right to spend school funds, in reasonable amount, to safeguard the welfare of the children of pre-school age and to instruct parents in matters of child welfare work.

We are proud of the part played by Relief Society women in securing this wise law which is so universally appreciated. Our Church Schools early recognized the need of health education and in the eighties the B. Y. U. had medical lectures for both sexes. So important is the Utah health program to all Utah mothers, and so educational is it, that we feel sure that Relief Society women throughout the Church will be greatly benefited by a knowledge of the plan and will be able to make good application of it in their homes and in the community.

Mothers who have reared their own children should study child welfare work for the benefit of all the children in the community, some of whom have no mothers to be interested in them. Following are some of the details of the plan: The general plan includes (1) provision for the physical examination and medical inspection of all school children at least once a year; (2) a system of "follow up" for the purpose of correcting the defects discovered by the medical inspection; (3) the inspection of school buildings and grounds and the maintenance of satisfactory sanitary and hygienic conditions; (4) the protection of the school population from contagious diseases by daily inspection and exclusion of incipient cases; (5) careful instruction in personal, household, and public hygiene; (6) systematic physical training as a means of promoting normal physical growth.

A physical and medical examination of all school children at least once a year is a most desirable thing.

Many children go through life with defects that can easily be corrected providing they are early brought to the attention of the parents. This examination in a preliminary way will be made by the teachers without exposure of the child or the mentioning of defects to other children. All children found by their teachers to need a more careful medical examination will be examined privately by the health supervisor, and parents will be notified of the defects discovered. The correction of these defects is a duty and responsibility of the parents which must be attended to if they would give the children a fair chance in school for promotion, and in life for success. It is not the business of the school to say who shall be employed to correct children's defects but simply to notify parents of the existence of their defects and to urge that they be corrected for the sake of the children's future.

It is a fact that some children are held in the grades two years longer than the regular time because of diseased adenoids and tonsils. The sanitary inspection of school buildings and grounds is a serious responsibility of boards of education and superintendents, because when children under a compulsory attendance law are required to spend a larger part of each school day in a house other than the home, that house should be a clean, sanitary building, in which their physical welfare will be properly safeguarded. So many contagious diseases are spread by the school, that it is very necessary to take special precautions to protect the school population from contagion.

Teachers should know and be able to recognize the very beginnings of acute health disorder, in order that children having such signs can be taken out of school and kept at home as long as may be necessary to protect the other children in the school; and parents should feel enough interest in the general welfare that they will co-operate sympathetically with the school authorities in carrying out such quarantine or other instructions as may be needed. The training of children in the art of health is of such vital importance that it will require the united efforts of both the home and the school to do the work well. Co-operation of the mother with the teacher will accomplish many times as much as either agency can possibly do alone.

Health training means habit formation. Habits are formed by doing things so often and so regularly that they become easy and automatic. Checking up on health habits is the point where intelligent co-operation is needed. The definite program of desirable health habits adopted for use in the schools of Utah, a graded list of which follows, will probably do more than any other one thing to safeguard the health and physical welfare of children and insure that the men and women of the future shall be physically fit for the work of life, either in time of war or time of peace.

Grade 1. Definite habits to be inculcated: (a) keeping things out of the mouth; pencils, handkerchiefs, fingers, gum, miscellaneous articles; (b) carrying and properly using handkerchiefs, (c) looking in both directions before crossing a street.

Grade 2. Habits to be inculcated: (a) keeping hands and nails clean and hair combed; (b) drinking water before breakfast, at forenoon recess, before luncheon, at afternoon recess, and avoiding tea and coffee; (c) daily use of the tooth brush.

Grade 3. Habits to be inculcated: (a) correct breathing? deep breathing exercises every morning in the open air; breathing through the nose.

Grade 4. Habits to be inculcated: (a) exercise? regular "setting up" exercises daily in the morning before breakfast; (b) bathing ? not soapy scrub, brush bath twice a week; special attention with soap and brush to hands; special care of neck and ears daily.

Grade 5. (a) Good postures? sitting, standing, walking.

Grade 6. Habits: combination of all habits set forth in preceding.

It will be seen by the foregoing that the habits which will be inculcated in the first grade children are few and simple. Second grade children in this beginning year will be trained in first grade habits, and a few more habits added, and in each advanced grade the children will be held to the good habits of all preceding grades and be definitely trained in those set down for their own grade.

The plan as used by the sixth grade including a competition program, was introduced in Utah by the Utah Public Health Association. It was inaugurated by the National Tuberculosis Association, and is known as the Modern Health Crusade.

1. Give some reasons for the present interest in health education.
2. What part did Charles Dickens play in child welfare work?
3. Show what the Latter-day Saint Church has done in the interest of health education.
4. Mention some of the discoveries in connection with disease.
5. What are some of the common physical defects of children?
6. What did the war reveal with regard to physical fitness of men within the draft age? (Returned soldiers will be able to give information on this topic.)
7. Mention some things the government has done during the last few years in the interest of health education.
8. Read and discuss the new Utah Health Education Law. (This law may be had from any Utah School Board member.)
9. Name the points included in the Utah school health plan.
10. Why is a physical and medical examination of all school children once a year desirable?
11. How will the physical examination be made?
12. What part should the parents play in the correction of the defects of their children?
13. What can Relief Society women do in the interest of clean and sanitary school buildings?
14. What is the teacher's duty in regard to contagious diseases?
15. What is the parent's duty in regard to contagious diseases?
16. What will be required in training children in the art of health?
17. How are habits formed?
18. Mention and discuss the definite habits to be inculcated in grade 1; in grade 2; in grade 3; in grade 4; in grade 5; in grade 6.
19. If you live outside of Utah, tell what your own state is doing along health legislation.

A period of reconstruction, such as we are passing through now, is always a period of change. The age of Alfred Tennyson and Robert Browning was also marked by changes in thought, politics, and religion. The year 1832, just two years after the organization of the Church, is significant as indicating a period of change in Great Britain. This change, so vital in all its bearings, revived a period of poetry, and produced a group of poets the greatest of whom are Robert Browning and Alfred Tennyson.

Before the time of Tennyson and Browning, Wordsworth, Scott, Shelley, Keats, Coleridge, and Southey had been writing poetry.

The glory and beauty of nature appealed to these poets, and they revealed it with a passion that has never been equalled by any other group of poets who have written English poetry. Before the time that Tennyson and Browning began to command attention as poets, Scott, Shelley and Keats were dead, and Southey and Coleridge were silent. There had been a period intervening of real poetic barrenness. Tennyson and Browning appeared as heralds of the new thought, and as revelators of that thought through the medium of literature. Their age was an age of scientific thought and scientific activity, and they made that scientific thought and scientific activity live in their verse. It was an hour of reform in both politics and religion, and these representative writers took into account these reforms. Tennyson and Browning did not ignore nature, but they put their emphasis on man. In Tennyson both man and nature receive much emphasis. Tennyson and Browning dealt "with man as a whole," as one writer has put it, or as another has put it, "with man as an immortal soul and as a thinking being." Both of these poets were thoroughgoing optimists, who believed in the triumph of law and the ultimate triumph of all good in the world. They were entirely different in some things, and some of those differences we shall make note of.

Few poets are in a class with Alfred Tennyson when it comes to writing stories in verse. He is a past master in handling 730 . the narrative form of verse. When he wanted to write a story in verse, he went to the vast field of legend and romance that lay behind him, and took from it whatever material he chose. Browning was not inclined to use the legend; he was much more prone to make use of history. When Tennyson introduces a person into his writings, that person is usually what we call a type, that is, a person who is like many other persons whom we know or whom we have read. When Browning selects a person for one of his poems, he usually puts before us a very unusual person, one who towers above his fellows, or perhaps in some particulars sinks below them; at all events, one of strong individuality or what we now call strong personality.

The code of ethics in Tennyson is usually the code of ethics that he believed in himself. If he tells us the stories of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, he will tell us the ancient tale, but the moral ideal or code of ethics in these tales is modern; it is as a rule the best moral code of Tennyson's time. On the other hand, Browning's characters reflect the moral notions or code of ethics of their own special time, consequently we are often shocked by the things they do.

1. When and where was Alfred Tennyson born? When did he die?
2. When and where was Robert Browning born? When did he die?
3. Tell of a subject that Tennyson and Browning emphasized in their writings equally, with that of nature?
4. When Tennyson wanted material for his poems, where did he often seek it? From what source did Browning draw much of his material?
5. Discuss Tennyson's use of morals and ethics in his poems.
6. Discuss Browning's use of ethics or morals in his poems; how do they differ?
7. Tennyson's "Dora" is one of the most perfect narrative poems in English; read it to the class.
8. What social mistake did the old man make affecting his son?
9. What social mistake did he make affecting his niece?
10. How did he seek to make reparation for past mistakes?

II. Do people in real life often make similar mistakes? Give some impersonal illustrations.

Note: You can find the data in school books on literature, in encyclopedias and in his published poems.
. 
Preview of Lesson Work, 1920