[Vol3 | October 1916 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Out of Death Life is Born]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. OCTOBER, 1916. 

 OUT OF DEATH LIFE IS BORN. Women go down into the Valley of Death every Death time human life is born to earth. The creation is a Birth, ? of life ? the conception of an idea the first vision ? of great enterprises the bursting glory of the dream of conquest ? these epitomize the bliss of human all lives. The realization, the achievement, the slow process of development, gestation, and of birth ? ah, these hours crowd into themselves all the poignancy, of struggle known to mortality. Many are ignorant of this law; or, knowing it, are unwilling to bear the pains of fulfilment. Out in the rosy dawn shines the vision, but the hours of restless labor, hopeless struggle, and mental anguish, which come with the glaring noon-tide, cannot be borne; and so the thought dies, the plan is set aside, and the idea withers, and the purpose is foiled. The power to conceive thought is, happily, not Creative confined to sex or condition. Nor is the endurForce Not ance to develop ideals and to carry enterprises an a Sex accident of circumstance or sex. The most highly Condition, organized personality, the greatest dynamic brain power, are common to men and to women alike. Women more often exercise their powers in human development, while men expend their creative forces in public and social policies. Yet how few of them all follow the struggle to its source, or measure the dread weight of development and gestation when the joy of conception is upon them. Out of the heavenly gate of death we are Stones of born into earth-life. Through the gateway of Life's Gateway, earthly death we are born into heavenly life. The pangs of death are the stones out of which are built life's gateways. ,. Are you sweating and toiling up life's noonGethsemane tide, burden-strapped, and nerve-quivering? Before the What bright vision of yesterday is this toilTransfiguration, some today fulfilling? Paint the sky with the cloud glory of yesterday and the rich sunset of tomorrow. Be sure that birth travail is always severe, but the child of your purpose fulfilled will rest sweetly in your tired arms after the struggle is over. There is no achievement without struggle, no birth without pain, no bliss without a preceding pang. Every transfiguration is preceded by a Gethsemane. Yours as mine, mine as was the dear Master's. If your agony of unrest, your dread to go forward, your shrinking from the coming battle appalls your souls, remember that you are suffering as I suffer, bearing as Jesus endured. The greater the coming light, the deeper the present gloom. Every great artist shudders and gasps before the entering in upon performance. The keener the dread, the finer will be the achievement. The battle-horse sniffs the struggle from afar and champs at his confining bits. The laboring mother-animal, restlessly paces the earth, hoping against hope that the trial may be yet a little while postponed. The art conception hides in the farthest brain recesses, dreading entrance into organized life. Into the few hours of respite and joy which This is the follow birth, there floats another vision, a Only True Life, newer attainment. We may turn away with tired eyes and bid conception wait upon opportunity. But into life that intense life which is alive and thrilling with creative powers ? there passes an intermittent procession of glorious dreams, lofty visions. We may appraise and weigh vision-values, but if we are true followers of the Lord of Life, our souls will never rest supinely in the vale of inaction. We shall constantly aspire, create, conceive, develop and evolve. Yet ever in that restless progress, life struggles to conceive and death ever keeps the toll-gate Yet who would ? ! not suffer that he might create and bring forth thought, achievement, human and divine life. Ah, this is the life!