[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson III Genealogy and Literature]

and Business. Second Week In April. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in April. PLACE NAMES. It is not surprising that many people all over Europe adopted the easy custom of surnaming themselves after states, or farms. or towns, or any dwelling place where they resided permanently. The ^Frenchman retains to this day, the little preposition "de" which means of attached to his surname and even to his title. For instance, D'Arcy, and PeVesci are' still famous French names. DeRudeville is another. DePomeroy is still another name which was transplanted to England. These names simply meant that William DePomeroy or John D'Arcy once Heed or owned estates which bore the name Arcy and Pomeroy. In England these names were very quickly Englishized. It soon came about that men who owned large estates would be spoken of as John of Dean. If he lived near a church he might be called William of Eccles. If he was a toll-gate keeper he might be called Gates or Yates, the  Gate-keeper. On the other hand if he lived near a hill or boundary, he might be called Lynch, the Anglo-Saxon spelling of which was Flinch. Mr. Lower who wrote a book about surnames tells us: "The Saxons and Angles called places after their names. Wright, in his History of Ludlow, says: "Many of the names are compounded of those of Anglo-Saxon possessors, or cultivators, and the original forms of such words are readily discovered by a reference to Domesday Book. * * * Names of places having in the middle are generally formed from patronymics, which in Anglo-Saxon had this termination. Thus, a son of Alfred was lfreding; his descendants in general were lfredings or lfredingas. These patronymics are generally compounded with ham, tun, etc., and whenever we can find the name of a place in pure Saxon documents, we have the patronymic in the genitive case plural. Thus, Birmingham was Birmingham, the home or residence of the sons and descendants of Beorm." In the old Anglo-Saxon "hus" was house; cot is well known; "burh' was a fortified place from which came Canterbury, Salisbury, Amesbury, Shaftesbury. Acre always meant the cornland, ploughed or sown. It enters into many combinations: Goodacrc, Oldacre, Longacrc, Witacre. Angle, a corner. Atten-Angle has given us Nangle. John de Angulo, was in the 1273 (Hundred Rolls"). Barrow (A. S., Beam'), a wooded hill fit for pasturing swine. Beck is an Old English name for a high pasture or shelving piece of moorland; thence the names Broadbend and Bentlcy. Both (A. S.). a. booth or wooden house. Also Celtic bodd, a settlement, as Bodmin, the monastic settlement; Freebody, and other names ending in bod and body. Bottle (A. S. BotI), a diminutive of both. In the Highlands abothie is so used; in German we have Wolfen-buttel. It 
 occurs in Harbottle (the highly-situated bottle), Newbottle, Bolton is the tun containing a bottle; Dothzvell and Claypole, the bottle in the clay. Bottom (A. S. botn), the head of a valley. Burg (A. S. burh, in O. N. bjorg, D. borg, G. burg). Brook, originally a morass, then a stream, was a very common name. It occurs over and over again in the Hundred Rolls. By (O. N. barr, byr; Danish by, a farm), originally a single house, then came to be employed of a group of houses. Cot (A. S.), a thatched cottage, with mud walls. Draycott is the dry cottage. Dingle, a depth of wood. Eccles (German), was a church: Egloskerry, Egloshayle, Fccles in Norfolk and Lancashire, Ecclesfield in Yorkshire, and F.ccleston. Field is properly a clearing, where trees have been felled. Ford (Celtic fordd; Anglo-Saxon ford), a way; only in a s-econdary sense signifies a ford across a river. Garth (A. S.), an enclosed place; hence garden, yard. Gate may mean a road, as Bishopsgate; but also a barrier. Sometimes corrupted to yat: Ramsgate, Margate, Westgate; surnames Gates and Yates, Ycatman (the gatekeeper). Hatch and Hacket, a gate or bar thrown across a gap. Hall and Heal (A. S.), a slope. Ham (A. S.), has two significations  with the a long it signifies home; with the a short it signifies a field enclosed. Burnham is the enclosure by the brook. Hay, a hedge to an enclosure; often a small park. From this simple root we have the surnames Hay, Hayes, Haigh, and Hawis and Hazves, and in combination Haywood, Hazvorth, Haughton. Holm (O. N.),a flat island. Holt is the same as the German Holz, a wood or corpse. House (A. S., and O. N.), often contracted in us, as Alus (the old house), Malthus (the malt-house), Loftus (the house with a loft). Hurst (A. S.), a wood, very common in Sussex. Ing (O. N. eng), a meadow by the river. Lane. On the Hundred Rolls are numerous entries such as these: Cecilia in the Lane, Emma a la Lane, John de la Lane, Phillippa atte Lane, Thomas super Lane; so that, although a Norman family of L'Ane came over with the Conqueror, we cannot set down all the Lanes as his descendants. Lee, Legh, Leigh, Ley, Lea (A. S. leah, m.), a fallow pasturage. Pitt, a sawpit, coalpit, or pitfall. Piatt, low-lying ground. Ros (C. rhos), a heath: Roskelly, Penrose, Rosedue. Royd (O. N.), a clearing in a wood. Shaw (O. N. skog) is (1) A small wood or coppice; (2) a flat at the foot of a hill; (3) a boggy place by a river. Stead (A. S.), a home. Thrope (A. S. ; Danish torp; German dorf), a. hamlet. Tun (O. N), the enclosure about a farm, enters into many combinations, as ton and town. Brighton is Brighthelmstron, Wolverhampton is Wolfardes-home-field. Wick, Wyke, Week (Lat. vicus), a settlement: Warwick, Greenwich, Berwick, Germansweek, Week St. Mary, Hardwick, Norwich, and many others come from this root. With (O. N. vioi), a wood: Beckwith, Skipwith. Wood becomes sometimes in combination Hood, sometimes Good. Yat, for Gate, a still common pronunciation; hence the surname Yates. LITERATURE Third Week