[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 155 into service on the border, and, as a result of their continued absence from home, there is much suffering1 among their families in Switzerland and much opportunity is afforded for relief work. Of the donation sent to the European Mission by our Church for relief work, $340 or $20 for each Society in the Swiss and German Mission, was sent to President Valentine for distribution. This money was joyfully received by the organizations and, with their wonderful thrift and economy, the members were able to make turns that furnished relief to many who were in need. The Swiss and German women are such careful planners and are so economical that very few families were found to be in need of clothing. Mrs. Valentine says it is invariably the case that they are found with sufficient clothing and sufficient bed and table linen on hand to last them for several years. She says American housewives might, with profit, go to these foreign sifters to learn economy. Cassia Stake. At the January stake and local officers' meeting of the Cassia stake, the entire time was devoted to an introduction of the new literary lessons, and it proved to be one of the most profitable and enjoyable sessions ever held. The first lesson in the course was given by a capable teacher, and was thoroughly discussed. Attention was drawn to the literary productions of our own authors. At the close of the lesson, "My Dear Old Garden," by "Aunt Em" Wells, was read by one of the most gifted readers, and "O Ye Mountains High," by President Charles W. Penrose, was sung in an impressive way by one of the most talented singers. The stake and ward officers of the Y. L". M. I. A. attended the session as special guests of the Relief Society. During the holiday season, President Emmeline B. Wells received dozens of letters and cards from Relief Society workers throughout the Church  all expressing love and good wishes for the coming year. For these messages of greeting and for the loving thoughts that prompted through them, "our the Magazine, her beloved gratitude President desires to express, and appreciation. California Mission. Late in December a Relief Society was organized at Sparks, Nevada, with the following officers: Artie E. Vanderhoof, President; Linnie C. Rossiter, First Counselor; Bertha M. Anderson. Second Counselor; Gladys Huyke, Secretary and Treasurer. Home Science Department. By J and I c A. Hyde. In the Bible bread is called the ""staff of life." It has been used so long that no one can tell exactly who the first bread eaters were. We have record of its use in ancient times. When the city of Pompeii was uncovered, mills for grinding wheat, and ovens containing loaves of bread were found. We also find on the pyramids and tombs in Egypt, hieroglyphics showing men reaping and crushing wheat. From this we know that the raising of wheat was an occupation on the Nile. Among the Chinese there is a tradition that wheat originally came from heaven. It has been grown for thousands of years in China. The ( i reeks and Romans worshiped Ceres, the goddess of the grain and of the harvest. From this ancient goddess we have derived the word "cereal," which applies to varieties of grain, among which are the following important ones: wheat, corn, oats, rye. barley and rice. No more important food stuff exists than wheat, for it furnishes the principal food product for civilized man. It is gratifying to know that this nation raises more wheat than any other nation, and more corn than all the rest of the world put together. In order to fully appreciate the flour industry, one should go to Minneapolis, the chief flour-making city in the world, though by no means the only milling center in our country. Wheat is of many varieties, each of which requires certain climatic conditions for perfect development. Among the most important kinds are spring and winter wheat. Spring wheat is excellent for bread-making, producing more bread to the barrel of flour than winter wheat. Winter wheat contains more starch. It makes good bread and is particularly desirable for pastry. In order to produce the best flour wheat must pass through several processes in the grinding. 1 f flour is used which has not been thus treated, the difference would soon be discovered. Whole wheat flour is much like graham except that in this flour the outer skin or husk is removed before grinding, leaving it not as coarse as graham. Standard patent is the flour frost used in the United States. It makes the most digestible bread, whole wheat comes second, and graham last. The patent process was great used about 1865. There are two general methods of bread-making in vogue, one producing unleavened and the other leavened bread. Because of the lack of knowledge of elements that would leaven bread, the unleavened bread was mainly used by ancient people. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 157 It is made by mixing flour and water into a hard dough and baking it. The bread used by the Jews at their Passover, and also the English crackers, arc unleavened bread. Both are hard to masticate, but nevertheless, healthful and nutritious. Leavened bread is made of flour, with yeast, baking-soda or baking-powder as leavening agencies, and with sufficient liquid to form a dough. Bread is a great heat and energy producing food. It produces also a moderate amount of muscle mineral, but little fat. Corn, a native product of America and Mexico, is used very extensively for bread in some parts of the United States. Columbus found the Indians using for bread, corn meal crushed by means of rocks. They made it into a batter with water and baked it on hot rocks. The Indians called it "mahiz," from which our word "maize" is derived. They not only. made corn meal into plain bread, but also combined it with nut meats, pumpkins, berries, corn and beans. Corn is a typically American food. Many varieties of bread are made from corn meal. For instance, the corn bread, hoe cake, Boston brown bread, griddle cakes, Johnny cake, corn muffins and corn meal gems. All these varieties are found on the American table. The people of the South consume more corn bread than those of the North, for the reason that the flavor of the meal made in the South is more appetizing and delicious than that made in the North. This flavor is due to the fact that it is made from ground corn, from which the indigestible hulls only have been removed by bolting. In the North the mills remove, in addition to the hulls, a portion of the kernel which contains the fat and mineral  this process taking away most of the flavor of the corn. The food value of the corn is thus reduced. Americans have meekly submitted to this because the facts are not generally known. However, it is to be hoped that they will refuse to buy corn meal from which most of the flour has been eliminated. Personally, I think corn bread more tasty than wheat bread. The only advantage wheat bread has over corn bread is the fact that it can be made into a lighter loaf. But this difference can be overcome by baking corn bread in thin cakes. CORN BREAD. Two cups of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonsful butter fat, one tablespoooful sugar, on molasses, one salt spoon, of salt, one tablespoon baking powder, two cups of corn meal (yellow or white), and one cup of flour. Put all dry ingredients together. Mix thoroughly, add melted butter fat to milk and eggs, make into a soft batter, and bake in moderate oven. Ground up cracklings may be used instead of the butter fat.