[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson I Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in April. SEEKING A WIFE RACHEL. (Reading-: Chapters 37-47 of Genesis, omitting Chapter 38.) Marriage cuts a very wide swath in all primitive society, but it cuts an especially wide one in the early days of Israelitish history, on account of the promises made to Abraham concerning "the seed." This is why so much of the biblical account of the first patriarchs is occupied with the matrimonial affairs of those who comprise the direct line to Christ, like Isaac and Jacob. But the wooing of Rebecca and that of Rachel were essentially different, although each is characteristic of the times in which it took place. Jacob, like his father, was a shepherd. But his brother Esau was a hunter. These were the principal occupations in those early times. And, if we may judge by the characters of the two men. they chose their callings wisely. Indeed, Rachael herself, and perhaps Leah, may be called a shepherdess, for when Jacob came to the home of his ancestors first he found his future wife taking care of sheep. Josephus notes that he met "with shepherds in the suburbs" of Haran, "boys grown up, and maidens sitting be. a certain well," Rachel being apparently among the num about Isaac, seemingly, and Rebecca were imbued with the same idea which Abraham had  that no marriages should be contracted between the Chosen People and their Canaanitish neighbors. This pair, especially Isaac with whom the hairy Edomite was a favorite, found great offense in Esau's marriage with two Canaanitish women, one of whom was the daughter of "a great lord," such as lords went in those days. Esau realized this, for he afterward took another wife who he thought would please his father. And Jacob might not have done any better if it had not been for the forethought of his shrewd mother. It was she who suggested, when the rupture over the mess of potage occurred between the two sons, that Jacob should go to the land of her nativity to marry him a wife  a suggestion to which Isaac readily agreed. As in the days of Abraham, so in those of Jacob, children were something like property in the hands of their parents, as long as the parents were living. We do not read of the slightest objection on the part of Jacob, although he was past forty, to the proposal that he go to Mesopotamia for a wife. Josephus has a curious passage in this connection as affecting Esau. He tells us that Esau, "now come to the age of forty," when he married the Canaanitish women already referred to, did so "without so much as asking the advice of his father; for had Isaac been the arbitrator, he had not given him leave to marry thus, for he was not pleased with contracting any alliance with the people of that country; but not caring to be uneasy to his son, by commanding him to put away these wives, he resolved to be silent." The same unquestioning obedience to parental advice is observed also in the case of Leah and Rachel. Although Rachel must have known of Jacob's love for her and of the request he had made her father for her hand and although she must therefore have looked forward for seven long years to the union, she nevertheless had nothing to say apparently when her father unceremoniously substituted her sister for her on the night of the marriage. Implicit obedience was exacted by parents in ancient times, not only of children but of grown sons and daughters as well. Whatever view we take of this marriage of Jacob, much depended upon it. Jacob, by reason of his purchase of the birthright, was heir to the family promises. Moreover, he had received the blessing belonging to the heir. When Isaac's sight had failed him to the point where he could no longer attend properly to the customary sacrifice, he asked Esau to prepare him some venison. This was not, most likely, an ordinary meal. Rather it be as a sacrificial feast of some sort. The aged patriarch expected >m this occasion, it would seem, a manifestation from heaven which would enable him to give his son an inspired blessing. This blessing, however, Jacob received by anticipating his brothers' offering. It was through him, therefore, that the promised Seed should come. Hence the importance that attached to his marriage. There are two customs connected with marriage in those days which are thrown into sight in the biblical narrative of the events we have been considering. One of these is that the daughters were married off according to their age, the eldest first, instead of according to their success in attracting the attention of the male. Or was this merely a ruse to deceive the unwary Jacob into remaining another seven years? For Laban was a tricky man by nature. When he saw that in his proposed son-in-law he had an exceptional person, he professed to be absolutely opposed to having Rachel go to the strange land which had lured  his sister Rebecca. At all events, Jacob seems not to have known anything about this custom  if such it was. Another custom, it appears, was to veil the bride on entering the bridal chamber. This fact  if we reject the explanation of Josephus that Jacob was "in drink as well as in the dark"  would account for Jacob's not recognizing Leah till next morning. Polygamy, it would appear, was common in those times, not only in the chosen family but also among the nations surrounding them. Isaac, it seems, had but one wife, although Ins father Abraham had more than one. Jacob was a polygamist by compulsion. He was forced into plural marriage first by his crafty father-in-law and afterward by the rivalry of Leah and Rachel. If he had had his own way, doubtless, he would have been content with his first Love. But then the course of history would have taken a different direction, so that, after all, the Lord may have been using Laban and his two daughters to bring about His great purposes. Esau, as we have already seen, took two Canaanitish women to be his wives. We are told all these details in such a way as to leave us the inevitable inference that this custom was a common practice in that age. Religion appears to have figured very largely in the daily lives of the group of persons we are considering. Rebecca, as we have seen, sought the Lord just prior to the birth of her famous "twin sons." Josephus tells us that Isaac appealed to Him for guidance in this important event  whether in connection with his wife or alone, we do not know. Visions and dreams play an important part in the daily lives of these people. Jacob, while on his way from the home of his father, saw that famous ladder "reaching up into heaven, on which the angels were ascending and descending." Even Laban was warned in a dream, or vision, that if he attacked Jacob, when the latter was fleeing from his father-in-law, the Lord would fight Israel's battles for him. And again, just before Jacob met his brother Esau, the angel of the Lord appeared to him and told him not to fear the Edomite. Joseph also was "a dreamer." Before of he grain was sold it to sun and the Egypt, and he had his two dreams of the sheaves the moon, which symbolized the relation he would sustain to his father and his brothers in the dim future. And then there are the dreams he interpreted in Egypt, through which he was elevated to the second place in that great nation. It was doubtless religion that gave these people such a high ideal of chastity. When Dinah, Jacob's daughter, was violated, as the family was on its way back to the Promised Land, we are informed just how virtue was looked upon in woman. Although the defiler was the son of a "king" and although it appears that the act was performed in order to bring about a marriage between the pair, still, when Jacob's sons learned of the affair, they fell upon the whole town where the offense had been committed, and slaughtered every grown male therein. As to how virtue was looked upon in the man in those days, perhaps the best example is to he found in Joseph, the son of Rachel and Jacob. After his arrival in the valley of the Nile, he entered the household of Potiphar. He was an unusually handsome young man, it seems, and the lady of the house fell in love with him. Now, in those days immorality was extremely prevalent in Egypt; society was corrupt. And most likely Joseph came in contact with this form of corruption. But he preferred to keep his virtue, even though in doing so he ran the risk of imprisonment or death. Rachel and Leah, it appears from the biblical narrative, were accustomed to a species of idolatry in their father's house. There were household gods in the family, which had been handed down from generation to generation. Josephus represents Laban as saying, on the occasion that he follows Jacob in search of the gods which Rachel had stolen: "Thou hast treated me as an enemy, by driving away my cattle; and by persuading my daughters to run away from their father; and by carrying home those sacred paternal images which were worshiped by my forefathers, and have been honored with the like worship which they paid them, by myself." Jacob, we are told by this same historian, "had taught Rachel to despise the worship of those gods." QUESTIONS. 1. Why is marriage given so much prominence in the account of the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? 2.What were the chief occupations in those times? 3. What did Rachel and Isaac think of a marriage between their children and the Canaanites? 4. Show from actual citations what was the relation between children and parents. Is that condition preferable to ours? Why do you think so? 5. Why did such importance attach to the marriage of Jacob? 6. Tell of some customs connected with marriage then. 7. Show that plural marriage was common at that time. 8. Explain the importance of religion in those days. 9. How was chastity looked upon, by the Israelites of that day? By the Egyptians? Did the Israelites have a single or a double standard of morality? Justify your views. BIBLE READINGS FOR APRIL. "And take * * * the Sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God." 1. Bible. Genesis, Chapter 37 2. Bible, Genesis, chapter 38. 3. Bible. Exodus, Chapter 2. 4. Bible. Exodus, Chapter 3. 5. Bible. Exodus; Chapter <>. 6. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20. 7. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 21. 8. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 22. 9. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 23. 10. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 24. 11. Doctrine and Covenants. Section 19. 12. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 18. 13. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 15, 16, 17. 14. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 13. 14. 15. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 11, 12. 16. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 10. 17. Doctrine and Covenants. Sections S. 9. IS. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 6, 7. 1". Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 4, 5. 20. Doctrine and Covenants. Sections 2,3. 21. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1. 22. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 15. 23. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 18. 2-1. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 1'". 25. Bible. Exodus, Chapter 20. 26 Bible, Psalm 30. 27. Bible. Psalm. 31. 28. Bible, Psalm, 32. 200. Bible, Psalm, 33. 30. Bible. Psalm, 34.