Editorial, Spiritual Status of Our Present-day World 595
Selection J. G. Whittier 598
Guide Lessons for December 599
Salt Lake City's Milk Supply Fred W. Merrill 609  PUBLICATION INFORMATION  Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy  ADVERTISEMENTS  The Utah State National Bank  The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.  Officers
Heber J. Grant, President
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier
Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier
John W. James, Asst. Cashier  Mention Relief Society Magazine  Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY  150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave $1.95
401 or 104—Light weight bleached cotton Ribbed $1.95
511—Heavy weight unbleached Cotton $1.95
911—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.20
911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton $2.25
635—Medium weight part Wool $3.00
845—Heavy weight all Wool $4.50
601—Lisle Garments $2.00
204—Mercerized Lisle $3.00  We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 911
Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c Additional
Garments marked for 25c per pair
Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra
Be sure to state size  THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.)
1069 E. 21st South
Salt Lake, Utah  BURIAL CLOTHES  Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices  Call at our Burial Clothes Department
23 Bishop's Building
Prompt attention given all out of town orders  TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER  Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286  Mention Relief Society Magazine  Music Magnetizes the Home  The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.  $100.00 For this Beauty
Take 15 Months to Pay  CAPITAL $250,000.00
OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH  Mention Relief Society Magazine  It Is Noticeable  That Women who have a regular amount deposited in their household checking account each month are also maintaining a growing savings account. By knowing just what money they have to depend upon, they are able to spend more economically.  National Bank of Commerce
OGDEN, UTAH  When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine  Latter-Day Saints Garments  LABEL IN EACH GARMENT  No. 104 Light Summer Weight Bleached $1.40
No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached $2.50
No. 150 Extra white Merc. $2.50
No. 111 Light weight, cotton $1.20
No. 120 Light weight, bleached $1.50
No. 160 Medium weight, cotton $1.60
No. 122 Medium weight, bleached $2.00
No. 117 Snow White Silkaline $3.40
No. 190 Heavy weight, cotton $2.00
No. 118 All Merino Wool $5.50  MODEL KNITTING WORKS
No. 657 Iverson St.
"Reliable Agents Wanted"
Salt Lake City, Utah  Phone Was. 1828  W. M. McCONAHAY
The Reliable Jeweler  McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere.  When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine  Lillian Wirth Maternity Home  A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates  Call Hyland 606 for information
1820 South 5th East
Salt Lake City, Utah  Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock  BEST IN THE MARKET  GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED  Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.  Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.  SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed, Inquiries cheerfully answered  THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT  "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."  Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.  BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City  THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU SATISFACTION  Z. C. M. I. FACTORY MADE
Shoes and Overalls  Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Help the movement for Inter-mountain development.
RESIGNATION Roberta Flake Clayton Not as I will, but as thou wilt, O Lord. Too long I've sought to follow in the way My rash impulse has led me—now I pray That thou wilt lead me in thine own accord. So often have I felt that I was right And that the paths I've chosen were the best; I did not seek assistance. Nor request That thou shouldst guide me and keep me by thy might. So fain was I to follow pleasure's call, Or seek for love I trusted would endure, Or strive some admiration to secure, I counted not the consequence at all. But like a rudderless ship upon the sea I come to thee, and earnestly I pray That thou wilt keep and guide me in the way That leads to life eternal and to thee. Help me to place my all within thy care And give me faith to put my trust in thee, And every hour more nearly perfect be; Lose my desires in thine, and live by prayer. PRESENT BUREAU OF INFORMATION Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX - NOVEMBER, 1922 No. Il The Temple Block Mission Levi Edgar Young The Temple Block is now a mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Like all missions, the primary object of its missionaries is to explain the gospel of the Savior of the world, and to disseminate literature that gives the principles of the religion we espouse. Unlike the missions abroad, however, the people of the world come to us the year around, and we are never without some one to talk to or converse with. During the past summer, we have often had over three thousand visitors in one day who have passed through the buildings, heard the organ, and have left the block 'vith one or two copies of tracts, telling of our beliefs and hopes for the future. Tourists love to see Salt Lake City, for it is the one city of America that has distinct individuality and a history that is interesting to all peoples. It is known the world over for its beautiful streets and trees; and now it is considered as a center of art. One noted American artist, Louis Potter, recently said that Salt Lake City has more individuality than any other American city. I believe that he spoke a truth that hundreds will agree with. Like all cities of America, Salt Lake City has been a place where people could come and go as they pleased. Thousands of people from all over the world have walked our streets and many have studied the strange history of the "Mormon" people. "There is something in the history of Salt Lake City that is impelling," said one noted American, a few weeks ago, "and the story of the struggles of the founders, is one that should be known to the American people." All kinds of stories were at one time told about Salt Lake City and the "Mormons." Twenty five years ago, tourists coming to Salt Lake City when they were shown about the city were led to believe all kinds of falsehoods; and many of the old hackdrivers made their tales as sensational as possible. They played 560. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE upon the credulity of the visitors, and thousands went away with weird tales of the pioneers and the people of Utah. It was at a time of religious prejudice against Utah and her people, and it has taken years of patient work to put ourselves right before the world. One of the greatest agencies that we have had has been the