[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 584 | General Feature | Editorial: The Worth of a Grandmother | Marianne C. Sharp]
[Editorial: The Worth of a Grandmother Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL Volume 54 August 1967 Number 8 Mi Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Wi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 584 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill! Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elfen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous fF o Grandmother Grandma told me all about it, Told me so I couldn't doubt it.... —Mary Mapes Dodge Memories of a grandmother are among the choicest of one's life. Contrast the family memories where the grandmother was present, and one where she had gone before the child remembered her. There is always a feeling of sadness not to have known her, not to have been taught lessons by her. The only memories of rather pioneer conditions shutter open as grandma walked to the pump at the back door, vigorously pumped a bucket of water, then stepped into the summer kitchen to see to her dinner. Earlier, on the treeshadowed pump steps, there had been a sharing of shelling peas which she had picked and carried to the house in her apron. Remembered is the steam rising up from a bed sheet as a hotter iron was lifted off the stove and the sheet folded and refolded almost automatically as the iron thumped and lifted. One of grandma's brothers had been killed by the Indians in Southern Utah. That made one fearful when Indians would call at the home demanding bread. There was one squaw whom people called mean, but she and = grandma seemed to have a warm understanding between them. Everyone assembled at nine in the evening for family prayers. The large circle of chairs around the dining table was used to kneel by, and usually during the midst of the prayer the old clock would ''bong'' out the hour. Precious memories giving a quick vista of a bygone era! What are the pictures and experiences the grandmothers of today will leave their grandchildren? Of course, one tells of experiences before the days of automobiles, radios, television, talking movies, airplanes, automatic washers, dryers, and refrigerators; but otherwise, except that life was more leisurely in certain aspects, less crowded and demanding, the way of life is not, fundamentally, so different. What then, is the priceless legacy a grandmother may leave to be of greatest value in the trying days ahead?' Perhaps it would be a bulwarking in moral values. To take the grandchildren, in turns, as they come to see grandmother, and talk and speak of things of the spirit, to relate experiences of healing in the family, and help them to realize a family closeness—to describe the marvelous healing of that old (to them) great aunt when she was a child. To thrill them with life experiences of their ancestors who joined the Church, helping them to realize that life was hard for them, too, and that they prevailed over great temptations. Often one may point up an experience of theirs through a scriptural account to help them realize that men are brothers in any age. Where grandchildren are able to visit on a systematic basis, a consistent reading of the scriptures is rewarding—not necessarily reading through a standard work—but finding out the comprehension of a child on the sequence of events in world history, with reference to the gospel, and then giving to him a bird's-eye view of where his present world fits in. It is a time to impress on him the privilege of living now as one chosen to come to earth during this great last dispensation with the need to remain true and faithful to his heritage. Some grandmothers make a practice of inviting all their grandchildren on a certain day; others invite them by ages; others by sex; others as the children ask to come. It would seem that to strengthen the home teachings of righteousness would be of most worth to grandchildren. These are the foretold, fateful days when the very elect will be deceived; they will live through perilous times, and the grandmother's role can be a vital one of teaching, by love and understanding, of the wisdom she has reaped over the years. —WM. C. S.