[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 596 | General Feature | Recipes for Venison | Ann Andersen]
Reiteocteceabmarcap wiecactte ete Ot; August 1967 te — — Recipes for Venison Ann Andersen Venison is a nourishing and delicious meat. Through skillful preparation and a little extra care, the ''wild'' flavor can be lessened, and venison can be a favorite food for the family. A small amount of beef suet added to ground venison increases the flavor and adds to the rich brown surface coating of meat balls and meat loaves. CORNISH PASTIES Pastry (or use your own favorite) 1% c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c.. Shortening 1 tsp. Salt 3 c. Sifted flour Pour boiling water over shortening and beat with a fork. Add dry ingredients. Chill. Filling 1 Ib. Ground venison 3 tbsp. Chopped onion 2 potatoes, peeled and grated 1 tsp. Salt 3 large carrots, peeled and grated 14 tsp. Pepper 14, c. Catsup 14 tsp. Oregano Crumble and fry venison and onion. Mix with other ingredients. Using saucer as a guide, cut dough into 10 circles. Place filling in center and fold over, crimp edges, and prick top. Place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 350° for 10 minutes. This recipe will serve a family of four twice. The pasties freeze nicely. SWEET AND SOUR MEAT BALLS (Kottbullar) Meatballs 1 egg 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Bread crumbs 14 tsp. Pepper 14 c. Water 4 tbsp. Sugar 1 small onion 1 Ib. Venison (ground) Mix ingredients and form into balls. 596 Recipes for Venison Sauce 1 c. Boiling water used if desired) Y% c. Flour 2 tbsp. Lemon juice ly tsp. Cinnamon 14~c. Water ' Dissolve cubes in boiling water. Simmer 10 minutes. Add flour a little at a time. Add cinnamon. Stir in milk and 14% cup water if evaporated milk is used. Stir and cook unti! Sauce is thickened. Stir in lemon juice, pour over browned meat balls and serve as soon as possible. Can be served over noodles, if desired. Serves 6. En a / THE POSTMAN — A MODERN PIED PIPER Pearle M. Olsen He makes no claim to using magic power, Nor does: he blow the pipe of legend's fame. No rodents follow him in their doomed hour, And he would be the first one to disclaim That he encourages a deed or thought When children leave their homes to follow him. Enduring lessons he has gently taught To boys with questing eye and robust limb. They wait and watch until he comes along, Then follow on the pathway to each home. Sometimes he tells a story, sings a song, While measuring steps like a metronome. His voice and leather bag of weighted mail Are more alluring than a flute's thin wail!