[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 617 | Lesson | Spiritual Living Preparing for the Redemption of Zion | Roy W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 82—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Note (Summary of Terms): In this lesson the word ''Zion'' has been used with different meanings according to the context in which it appears in the respective scriptures. By way of summary, Zion means: (1) the center-place in Jackson County, Missouri; (2) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and (3) the members of the Church who are pure in heart. INTRODUCTION The fact that the saints in the early part of this dispensation suffered persecution is consistent with other dispensations of the gospel. A characteristic of the true Church is the persecution that it suffers. Physical persecution causing suffering of body was the lot of the saints who were sent from Jackson County, Missouri. In subsequent years this tribulation did not cease. It is true that the form of persecution has changed today, but it remains, especially in some mission fields of the Church. Furthermore the Savior said: And blessed are all they who are persecuted for my name's sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake; For ye shall have great joy and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you (38 Nephi 12:10-12; cf. Matt. 5:10-12). 

617 August 1967

 Class Discussion Discuss evidence as to why you believe persecution has been the lot of the faithful. THE ULTIMATE BLESSING To be persecuted for a cause, though righteous, does not merit the fulness of the Lord's glory. The ultimate blessing comes through obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Though one may perform good works for his fellow man, if he does not follow Christ, he can not obtain the ultimate blessing. (D&C 84:49-53.) The things of God are known by the gospel of Jesus Christ. So emphatic was the Nephite Prophet Moroni on this truth that he said:... For everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil... (Moroni 7:16-17). The celestial law that provides all glory, all mysteries, and all powers is founded upon the redemptive act of Jesus Christ. Acceptance of his atonement comes through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:50-62; 1-10.) To be truly accepted of the Lord is to follow this path. ZION'S CAMP Because of the persecution of the saints in Jackson County in the fall of 1833, the Lord gave a revelation, on February 24, 1834, that called upon the Church to organize a company of men to assist the saints in Missouri by 618 peaceful means. (Ibid., 103:30- 36.) The Church was to send agents throughout its. Branches to collect money for the purchase of lands in Missouri whereon the saints might settle. (Ibid., v. 23.) What has become known as Zion's Camp was to include five hundred volunteers, but, if fewer than one hundred volunteered, the Camp should not be organized. ([bid., 30-34.) Leaving in the month of May 1834, the Camp enrolled two hundred and five members, but fewer than this number arrived in Missouri, in June 1834, due to fourteen deaths resulting from cholera which struck the group because of dissensions within the Camp. By divine intervention the Camp was protected by a severe storm which dispersed mobbers who vowed to destroy its members. While Zion's Camp was located at Fishing River, June 22, 1834, the Prophet received what is known as Section 105. Class Discussion Discuss why the Church was under condemnation in 1834. "THE TRANSGRESSIONS OF MY PEOPLE" Uppermost in the minds of Zion's Camp was the redemption of Zion (Jackson County). For this purpose these brethren had traveled hundreds of miles to assist in that redemption. The cause of the persecutions and drivings from that place is reiterated in this revelation. Six months before this time, the Lord had also revealed some information upon this subject. (D&C 101: 1-8.) Obedience to the command- ments given for the redemption of Zion would have brought about her redemption at that time, said the Lord. Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the trangressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now (Ibid., 105:2). What brought about the condition which made the Lord speak of the Church as being in transgression? His answer is found in the revelations accounting for the persecutions that came upon the people in Zion. They had "not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands" (D&C 105:3). What was required? The Church was required not only to live the moral commandments, but also to live the law of consecration as explained principally in Section 42. No one was exempt from living that law in that day. (D&C 70:10; 85:1-8.) The members of the Church had been commanded to gather to appointed places where they could live the laws that would bring a fulness of blessings. But in this command-. Ment the Church failed because the members were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. (Ibid., 105: 3-5.) Important for all of us is to live the laws of the Lord which are in force at the time. WITHHOLDING ASSISTANCE The Church failed to live the law of consecration, and, when persecution came, the commandment was given that the branches of the Church should contribute money that land might be purchased whereon the persecuted saints might settle. (Ibid., 103: Lesson Department 23.) The Prophet Joseph Smith and other elders traveled among the branches of the Church to obtain money for this purpose. _Their efforts were not always successful. In fact, the Lord reminded the people that the branches of the Church must learn obedience even by chastening, if necessary, for there were many who said: 'Where is their God? Behold, he will deliver them in time of trouble, otherwise we will not go up unto Zion, and will keep our moneys" (Ibid., 105:8). Whether the circumstance is physical persecution as in the days of Missouri, or poverty caused by other reasons, as of today, the saints are always under obligation to assist their fellow Church members. Class Discussion What opportunities are given to members today to assist their fellow members? A TRIAL OF FAITH There are many times when members of the Church have their faith tried. It may be when they are confronted with the temptation to sin by breaking a commandment. To spend tithing money for some other purpose may be an example. Whatever the temptation, faith is tried. In the Missouri period of the Church, the members had their trial of faith when the Lord asked for money to help the persecuted saints. The men who were asked to volunteer for Zion's Camp had their faith tested also. Those who accepted this call to service and proved faithful to their responsibilities, were accepted of the Lord. (D&C 105:19.) 

619 August 1967

 Relief Society sisters who show their faith by their works find greater opportunity for service in the kingdom. To assist in the welfare of others as a teacher or leader in the Church is the reward of faith. The trial of faith received by the men in Zion's Camp prepared many for responsible positions in the Church. Most of the Twelve Apostles and many of the First Council of Seventy were selected from that group. WHAT IS NECESSARY TO REDEEM ZION The Lord declared that Zion's redemption, the building of the City of Zion, would not be realized in 1834 due to the transgressions of his people. (D&C 105:9.) It was also said that the elders would have to be endowed "with power from on high" (Jbid., 105:11) before this was possible. Let us consider the Lord's reasons why Zion was not redeemed in 1834 and think of those reasons as necessary for the preparation of Latter-day Saints today that this goal might yet be attained. First, they must be taught the commandments and _ their duties more perfectly; second, they must have experience; third, the Church membership must be "very great"; and fourth, they must be sanctified. (D&C 105:10, 31.) THEY MUST BE PREPARED The Lord said his people must "wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion" (Ibid., 105: 9). In the meantime, however, it was necessary that they make every preparation to fulfill this prophecy. Before the Church was organ- 620 ized there was a preparation going on in the lives of many people who later would make contributions to the building of Zion upon the earth. One of these was Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother. The following advice to him is pertinent to all members of the Church. Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap (/bid., 11:24-27). Essential to living the gospel in daily life is to enjoy the spirit of revelation. President Lorenzo Snow suggested in the following words the importance of that spirit: There is a way by which persons can keep their consciences clear before God and man, and that is to preserve within them the spirit of God, which is the spirit of revelation to every man and woman. It will reveal to them, even in the simplest of matters, what they shall do, by making suggestions to them. We should try to learn the nature of this spirit, that we may understand its suggestions, and then we will always be able to do right. This is the grand privilege of every Latterday Saint. We know that it is our right to have the manifestations of the spirit every day of our lives(Conference Report April 1899, p. 52). THEY MUST BE TAUGHT Contrary to the situation which prevailed in 1834 when all members of the Church were converts, several generations of members have grown up in the Church. There has been time for the teachings of the gospel to become second nature to the member. Through Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations opportunities for learning are made available from birth to the end of life. The women of the Relief Society are being prepared in facets of gospel living. There is an abundance of instruction in gospel principles and their application in the lives of members through the organizations of the Church. As a Relief Society member participates more fully, her ability to understand and apply the principles of the gospel becomes greater. The impress made by these Church organizations depends upon two factors. First, the strength of the desire to learn and, second, the skill and dedication of the teacher. It is well to ask if we are following the counsel of the Lord in the way to become instructed—to "seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118). THEY MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE Preparation for success in learning duties and commandments is closely related to the second lesson to be learned—to have experience. The law of consecration, called the United Order, is one of the laws to be lived when Zion is redeemed. Insufficient experience in the principles of this order as they apply to individual worthiness and the mechanics of operating the order contributed to the earlier failure. As an example, since 1936, the ChurchWelfare Program has given the Church considerable experience in the operation of numerous projects designed to take care of those in need. Not only has this type of experience been gained by Lesson Department Church leaders, but also the members of the Church have learned that obedience to the counsel of the living prophets has brought numerous blessings. They have had the principle of work made more meaningful in their lives. Also, concern for their neighbors has been emphasized as a part of living. It is well to ask ourselves what contribution we have been making to the Welfare Program. Have we contributed to the building of Zion upon the earth by making this kind of offering to the Lord? MEMBERSHIP 'VERY GREAT" The number of members of the Church in 1834 is unknown, but 1200 Saints were driven from Jackson County, and a few years later when Nauvoo, Illinois, was at its peak, nearly 20,000 members left that place. With the present Church membership of nearly two and one-half million and a steady annual increase of nearly 100,000 converts, it is suggested that the Lord's army is "very great," when compared with the membership of 1834. How are converts added to the growing kingdom of God? First by a dedicated missionary corps who are generally supported by parents who are thus contributing to the building of Zion upon the earth. Second, by the referral system of helping missionaries receive "golden" contacts; and third, by living the teachings of the gospel so well that people become attracted to the Church. TO BECOME SANCTIFIED Finally, the Lord told the early saints that, in addition to his Church becoming "very great," 

621 August 1967

 the members should become "sanctified before me" (D&C 105: 31). Numerical strength without quality of life would not bring about the Zion which is defined as "THE PURE IN HEART" (Ibid., 97:21). In the beginning of the dispensation, the Lord revealed that men become justified through Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 20: 29-31.) This justification is brought about by the atonement which he made for man. When men completely respond to the commandments of the gospel, they may become sanctified. The principle of sanctification means that one becomes so immersed in the life of the gospel of Jesus Christ that he becomes purified, holy. He yields his heart to God. (Helaman 3:35.) This is not the sanctification interpreted as being filled with the Spirit on a certain occasion, but is the quality of holiness that comes through keeping the Lord's commandments. Moral cleanliness and devotion to responsibilities received as a worker in the kingdom are essential to us as women. Keeping one's mind single to God is the way to sanctification. Such single-mindedness' involves (a) walking uprightly before the Lord, seeking to know his will through study, praying unceasingly, recognizing that salvation comes only through Jesus Christ; (b) doing one's duty to bring about a change from the carnal to the spiritual state. To be "'born again" (Mosiah 27:25) by the Spirit (Holy Ghost) is a qualification to be sanctified. To become a new creature in Jesus Christ is essential to "inherit the kingdom of God" (Mosiah 27: 26). The meaning of being sancti- 622 fied by the Spirit is expressed in Section 88 in the following words:... My voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound. And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D&C 88:66-68). To redeem Zion presupposes that members of the Church become dedicated to the objectives of the gospel, receive sanctification, and enjoy the power that comes through righteous living. Class Discussion Discuss how women in the Church are making progress in preparation for the building of Zion.. IMPLEMENTATION Among the many privileges of the member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to be a participant in the events foreseen by prophets of old. One of these is the preparation for the building of the city of Zion, the New Jerusalem, in Jackson County, Missouri. The following words of President Joseph F. Smith give us a picture of what is needed to help in the redemption of Zion. But when shall I be prepared to go there? Not while I have in my heart the love of this world more than the love of God. Not while I am possessed of that selfishness and greed that would induce me to cling to the world or my possessions in it, at the sacrifice of principle or truth. But when I am ready to say, "Father, all that I have, myself included, is Thine; my time, my substance, everything that I possess is on the altar, to be used freely, agreeable to Thy holy will, and not my will, but Thine, be done," then perhaps I will be prepared to go and help to reLesson Department deem Zion (Millennial Star 56:385- 386). When a Latter-day Saint woman is committed to this objective, there is always zeal and enthusiasm for the principles and programs of the Church. Her life becomes gospel-centered. She listens to and obeys the voice of the Lord through hi
