[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 586 | General Feature | Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual | General Conference]
[Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference]

The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1967. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 27, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 27, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 28, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 27, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. DAYBREAK Alda L. Brown Dawn awakens with pink skies and jade pearls on the hemlock tree... Birds chirp staccato eighth notes with quiet feather-stirrings. The mountains are still shadowed in purple slumber. Light prisms dare not shatter too quickly nor awaken too abruptly, for at this hour the heartbeat is slow.... And the mind dull. Homes carry a quiet aloofness—a wanted privacy.... Phones dare not ring.... And the sound of a door-bell would be much too early. The sun is wise. It rises softly, as if to mellow the day's beginning. Slowly Dawn unfolds.... Pulses quicken.... Tasks loom.... Car motors startle the stillness.... Dogs bark.... Suddenly, there is a purpose... A goal... A striving. Dawn has caught its breath, And day is on its way. 586 greener et eee CAN YOU.... Help YOUR Husband Have A Heart? AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION More and more, the results of medical research carried on for years in the United States, clearly demonstrate that there are ways to help prevent the coronary attacks which claim the lives of so many American husbands and fathers each year. The risks of "coronary occlusion" due to atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) can be substantially reduced now by proper attention to certain "Risk Factors,'' according to leading heart specialists and the American Heart Association. These factors are: — High levels of cholesterol or other fatty substances in the blood — Overweight — High blood pressure — Lack of consistent exercise — Cigarette smoking — Diabetes — A family history of heart attacks in middle age HOW DOES YOUR HUSBAND RATE? ASK YOUR DOCTOR! YOU ARE INVITED! TO "HEARTS AND HUSBANDS DAY" SEPTEMBER 13, 1967 — 8:00 P. M. SALT LAKE TABERNACLE FEATURING DR. PAUL DUDLEY WHITE World famous heart specialist and personal physician to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower during his heart attack. 587 ae ¢@ Hank's face was unusually flushed when he came in the door. "Got the letter,"' he said, "here, look at this!"' Gail took the letter and looked up, startled, 'Transfer... Now they ask you... After you had settled for early retirement." She wasn't sure if her blood temperature was rising or falling. Looking up, she gave a nervous laugh. "Well, we're only young once," she muttered. She watched Hank's face wince. "Good thing the kids are out of school and married," she said. "Read on,' Hank said impatiently. '""'Do you realize, if I accept this offer, we will have to be sold and out of here in three weeks?" Gail watched Hank rise to his full six-foot height, and she felt his fifty years breathing down her neck, forcing an answer.