[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 623 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Love a Way to Salvation Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 2—Love—a Way to Salvation Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: God revealed through his Son Jesus Christ that the basic principle of his kingdom is love. By implementing this principle, we help ourselves and others to obtain salvation. Is love rare? Do we deceive ourselves about how we love? Half of the hospital beds in the United States are occupied by the emotionally ill. The offices of psychiatrists and counselors are jammed with the mentally distressed. Crime rates soar alarmingly. Thousands are killed on our highways each year through careless driving. What is true in the United States finds its sad counterpart in other countries of the world. More than half of the world's people go to bed hungry each night. Almost daily revolutions and wars painfully remind us that man finds it increasingly difficult to love God, himself, or his neighbor. Israelites, immersed in their love of the Torah, the law of Moses, had lost sight of God's purpose in the adoption of the philosophy of an "Kye for eye, tooth for tooth" (Exodus 21:24). Jesus taught them that they had strayed from the essence of God's teachings which is the love of God, of self, and of neighbor. Has our own generation also strayed? Do we understand love? The scriptures repeatedly define love: the busy, despised Samaritan who took time to rescue the injured and abused; the father of the prodigal son who accepted his repentant son wholeheartedly and without scolding; the woman taken in adultery who was shown mercy and under- 

623 August 1967

 standing; the concern for children when Jesus gathered them to him over his disciples' protest; the necessity of seeking knowledge and understanding when Martha was gently rebuked; Jesus as he hung on the cross sacrificing his life for the love of God and his purposes. Did Jesus have more time than we? Was his life less precious? What matters our new dress, car, or television set, or the cake we are mixing, if our neighbor needs us, if our friend is in distress, if our child needs us to listen, or if halfway around the world a man starves? We will save ourselves and others when we show mercy, use wisdom, accept and seek repentance, extend forgiveness to all, and are actively, daily, responsibly caring for others. ''Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40).