[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: EMERY STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference,
of Emery State. Held at Huntington,
Oct. 31st, 1898. Annie U. Larsen presid-
ing. Meeting commencing 10 a. m. by
the choir singing, “Come, Oh Thou King
of Kings,’’ under the leadership of Profes-
sor Hardie. Prayer by Brother Hardie.
The choir sang, “The happy day is rolling
on.” President Annie U. Larson, spoke
at some length, gave a report of the Stake.
Said, she with her counselors, had made a
visit to all the branches since our last con-
ference had found the sisters anxious to
adhere to counsel. Many had and were
building halls and granaries and storing
up wheat for time of need. There was a
steadily growing interest in silk culture.
Many had planted trees and cuttings and
some had raised a few worms; she had on
exhibition some beautiful cocoons and a
twist of silk that had been raised in Emery
County; she was pleased that the sisters
were willing to profit by the advice of the
stake board. After which Huntington,
Cleveland, Castle Gate, Orangeville, Castle
Dale, and Ferron were represented. Each
president substantiating the report of
President Larson. Bishop Johnson,of Hun-
tington spoke to the sisters, a short time en-
couraged them to lay up grain and hoped
the brethren would aid them what they
could.
	Congregation sang, “We thank thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Brother
M. E. Johnson.
	Afternoon session: Choir sang “Great
is the Lord” prayer by Brother Charles
Pulsipher. Sang, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Annie Larsen announced
the visitors from Salt Lake. Elder L. John
Nuttall, Sisters Stevenson and Alder. The
President from Price, Sister Pace gave a

[Column 2]
report. After which Sister Stevenson ad-
dressed the conference. She said mother-
hood was the greatest duty of life, urged
the older sisters to give their experiences to
theyoung mothers, teach them how to care
forthe babies when sick, thought many
little ones were taken away through not
knowing how to properly care for them.
A mother’s first duty was the care of her
children, all others were secondary. The
sisters should teach house-keeping in the
society; felt that ignorance on the subject
was the cause of many divorce cases.
This should be steadily improved upon by
the careful teachings of the mothers. Our
daughters married our sons and it should be
the careful study of every mother that they
were in every way worthy of each other.
Teach them virtue and self denial. Sister
Lydia D. Alder spoke of the importance of
attending the Relief Society said that sisters
who labored in the society would be satis-
fied with the life they had spent. It was
necessary that mothers should attend the
Sabbath school as much as anything else,
by blessing we are blessed. Our children
may be careless and wayward, but if we do
our part. they will yet come back, God will
keep a watch care over them. Be careful
how we spend our lives. By careful
thought we progress We must not lose
sight of the fact that it is necessary to have
trials, if we staid in the same place there
would be no advancement. If it is hard
for us today do as well as we can for it may
be harder for us tomorrow.
	Elder L. John Nuttall spoke at some
length on the needs and necessities of the
Relief Society. Said that each president
should take a pride in her society and make
it the best, the Prophet Joseph said the duty
of this society was to save souls, gave
several ways how this could be done. It
was the duty of the sisters to learn the
Gospel that they might be able to convert
others, many women would be called upon
missions and it was necessary to inform our
selves that we could do credit to the church
to which we belonged. He read extracts
from the minutes of the first organization
and commented upon it. Meeting closed
by singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Bishop Robertson.
	An officers meeting was called just after
the afternoon session. Elder Nuttall there
explained many things that were of great
importance to the sisters.
	An evening session was held, the choir
sang "Behold the Savior comes,” prayer by
Elder C. R. Johnson. Sang “Ye wander-
ing nations.” Elder Nuttall occupied most
of the time in a very instructive and in-
teresting manner; spoke of the first or-
ganization of the Relief Society its aim and
object, how it had been a great help to the
church, it being the first organization of
women on the earth and that the Prophet
Joseph had said he had turned the key for
women, how many organizations of women
had been effected since. and the good we
could do providing we never lost the spirit
of the gospel, we should all declare to our-
selves that “As for me and my house I in-
tend to serve the Lord.’’
	Sister Estella Colard sang “My Mountain
Home.”
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the silk culture,
encouraged the young ladies to join the
Relief Society.
	President Annie U. Larson made a few
remarks and said we would meet again at
9:30 a. m. Saturday, as the children’s con- 
ference would have a portion of the forenoon

[Column 3]
Choir sang “Behold the Mountain of the
Lord.” Benediction by Elder H. A.
Fowler.
	Saturday, 9:30: Annie Larson presiding.
Choir sang “Sweet is the work my God my
King,” prayer by Elder Samuel Rowley.
Sang, “Are we yet alive.”
	Sister Alder spoke of the inventions
that are in our day. It was a day of ad-
vancement, if we were not careful we
would be left behind. Urged the sisters to
cultivate themselves; we had no time to
lose. We should brighten up our mind
and make ourselves useful; explained
clearly how much good the Exponent had
been to the sisters, was anxious that the
members of the Relief Society should sus-
tain it. Advised the sisters to make a
study of the Book of Mormon. It was
necessary for the president to study the
members and help them to cultivate the
talent that was in them: we should make
confidents of our daughters and draw them
nearer to us that they might in return
make confidents of us, give them some-
thing to do in the Relief Society.
	Elder Nuttall was the next speaker. He
endorsed the remarks of the former speaker,
spoke of the difference in early times and
now educationally, read some of the min-
utes of the Relief Society held in the days
of the Prophet Joseph, said the sisters had
the right to lay hands on the sick.
	Stake Counselor Pulispher was pleased
with the conference and very thankful the
visitors had met with us.
	Stake Gounselor Josie E. Childs pre-
sented the general and stake officers of the
society which were unanimously sustained.
President Annie Larsen said the next con-
ference would be at Ferron Sang “Joy to
the world” Benediction by Elder Thomas
Hardie.
