[Vol26 | September 1939 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: As A Woman Eateth]

As A Woman Eateth (Continued from page 614)
you'd have to fight is eating too much."
"Remember that story in Mutual," the Imp continued, "about the boy who had taken up bad habits after his brother was killed in a drunken wreck, hearing that brother's voice begging for just one puff of his cigarette? He woke up and quit. He didn't want to go through eternity craving tobacco. Do you want to be resurrected with seventy-five or more pounds of surplus fat cells craving food?"
"Maybe I won't be fat when I'm resurrected. Some one said in Sunday School that we'd look our very best, and people who are crippled and deformed may, through righteousness, receive perfected bodies then. If God can perform the miracle of resurrecting us at all, He can surely perfect our bodies as He does it."
"Christ was resurrected with the scars of His wounds. Why should He slenderize your body if you have willfully fattened it, when you know better? If they who are filthy shall be filthy still, why should not they who are fat be fat still? If you had defective glands, like poor Bertha,? but you only have defective will power."
"Oh, shut up! I have other things to think about."
May was at the big department store now, where she was to see the repair man about her electric ironer, and the Imp was hushed for a few moments. The repair man was out for an hour, so she went to the ready-to-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 653
wear department, where the Imp returned to his heckling again.
"Think you'd better try on a thirty-six like you used to?" he quizzed. "Even last year a thirty-six was too tight where you store your fat. And you've put seventeen pounds more between your waistline and your knees since then. Better try forties!"
She ignored his jibes and selected three thirty-eights that were marvelous bargains. The saleslady looked dubious as May took them to try on, but said nothing. The first one would not pull down below the waist. The next was cut fuller in the skirt, but fitted so tightly every curve bulged. May did not try the third. How the Imp chortled as she took them back and selected forty-twos!
"Have another bar of candy!" he sneered. "Little bites of candy, tastes of this and that, make a slender lady grow so nice and fat! Get a forty-eight!"
"Not drugs! Not glands! Just plain greediness! From the waist up and from the knees down, lovely; but from the waist to the hips! Aren't you a fine figger-of-a-woman! Don't you look young and slender? Not nicotine, nor alcohol, nor caffeine, nor tannin! Just food! Common, ordinary, delicious food! That is what has you whipped! When you get up from the table you feel as stuffy as you look. Greedy-gut!" he taunted inelegantly.
"Why don't you do something about it? Can't you?"
"I can!" May resolved. "I'll figure out how much I eat for an average meal and spread it over three meals. I won't talk about it, I'll just do it. I have as much self-control as a new convert! I'll get myself down to 130 pounds and stay there. I'll show you!"
The repair man came at last, and May finished her shopping and went home to set about showing her Imp. Five pounds a month she consumed off her own storage. When she felt her anger cooling, she sought a full-length mirror and stared at herself until it blazed hot again. It was a triumphant day when the scales finally stopped at 130. That stuffy feeling was gone. She felt young and energetic. Exercise didn't seem so formidable. So she toiled to harden the flabby remainder on her hips, twisted to tighten up the muscles about her waist, and practiced the windmill toe-touch for back and abdomen. A year later, she stood before the same mirror in the same department store wearing a new thirty-six dress which fitted a trifle more loosely than fashion decreed, and whispered to the Imp.
"Well, did I show you?"
And the Imp said, "You showed the world, lady! You licked the old appetite! And if you keep it licked, you'll be looking like this on the resurrection morn. So long! I'll be seein' you then!"
