OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	One can realize most fully when absent from
Zion or the valleys of the mountains what a
power in the hands of the women of this Church
a newspaper is. We are well aware that many of
our sisters think very little of the "WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT," and look upon it as too insignificant
for them to patronize, or even read, but they do
not comprehend its importance, if they did, they
would be anxious to sustain it by their influence,
and by subscription as well. People open their
eyes in wonder when one tells them the Mormon
women publish a paper, and were we to mention
all the facts in our possession concerning this mat-
ter collected since we have been roaming
abroad in the Eastern States it would fill a book.
	The fifty copies we took from here were given
away during the first few weeks and we have many
orders to fill of single copies promised when we
shall return, at which time we intend to use our
utmost exertions to secure more subscribers. How
is it that our sisters are not alive to the fact that
the little "EXPONENT" proclaims the doctrines of
the Church from a woman's point of view, the
very side of the question that is agitating Con-
gress, etc., at the present time. Is it not legiti-
mate to pay money towards circulating a paper to
explain principles and doctrines and defend
woman's position on the question of plural mar-
 riage giving woman's own testimony? There
are very few sisters who actually come in contact
with the women of the world to give verbal tes-
timony, but they have, through this channel the op-
portunity of expressing their views and opinions
in favor of the practice of an unpopular principle,
and that testimony, if it be genuine, has its effect
notwithstanding the opposition that seems so
strong at present. Thoughtful women who see and
deplore the condition of society are impressed
with the eternal truths that have been received
and embraced by the Latter-day Saints and it is
possible to bear strong testimony to men and
women in high places through the pages of the
"WOMAN'S EXPONENT." The sisters should
awake to this fact. Since we have been absent we
might have given away thousands of copies of
the EXPONENT had we been provided with them,
and it attracts particular attention because it is
by "Mormon' women.
	The agents for the papers in all the wards and
settlements, and all who are interested in the
spread of truth and the growth of Zion, should
double their diligence at this critical time in the
history of the Church, and see what can be done
among the faithful ones to secure more subscrib-
ers, that the influence of Mormon women may be
extended, and the women of the world who are
unenlightened in regard to the motives, methods
and practices of this people may have the privil-
ege of the experiences and testimonies given on
this important principle of our religion. Remem-
ber, this number closes the fourteenth volume, and
the next number will commence the fifteenth
volume, when the young and timid maiden is just


entering into the broader field of usefulness, and
comes to more mature thought and development.
Trusting it may be so with our dear little EXPON-
ENT, we would entreat our sisters to give this
silent messenger of their views and expressions
more liberal patronage and careful attention in
the near future.


[Column 1]
