EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: 
	We congratulate you on the success you 
met in having an interview with President
Cleveland, and hope the result will be favor-
able. We were pleased to read the Memorial
of the Women of Utah, and heartily endorse
the Resolutions contained therein! 
	This Memorial is not without effect, which is
plainly seen by the removal of Governor
Murray, Marshal Ireland, Judge Powers and 
others, the last named of these notable officials
being the judge that passed sentence upon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow without one iota of le-
gal evidence by which he could be convicted 
of a fine, much less eighteen months im-
prisonment. Governor Murray and Marshal
Ireland ordered a posse of soldiers to guard
President Cannon when he was under arrest. 
This illegal act is before the eyes of all na-
tions. Where are those notables to-day? 
They are removed and we are glad of it, even
if they replace them by those who are more

[Column 2]
hostile to the Mormons than their predecessors,
from the fact that the more unjust and illegal
their proceedings the sooner their career will
be ended. 
	We have just read the death knell of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has killed himself trying to
disfranchise the women and pass a bill to
confiscate the Church property of the Mor-
mon. The ladies charge Senator Edmunds
with aspiring to the Presidental chair; if this
is true, he certainly has no conception of the
influence of women even without the ballot; 
they are a power in the land, and the name of 
Senator Edmunds will become a hiss and a by
word among all nations. It is already being
said that he descended from the Nimrods of
Massachusetts that framed laws to burn poor
old helpless women that had no friends. 
Quakers were burned for their religion. 
	We would like to see the speech of Patrick
Henry published in the EXPONENT to awaken
an interest in the youth, that they may more
fully realize the cost of liberty, and impress on
them the spirit of patriotism. In solving all
great problems pertaining to the progress and
elevation of nations it requires a mighty
struggle, and calls for valiant hearted men
who are not afraid to die. Would such cruel-
ties and grievous wrongs be perpetrated in
England, as deputy marshals breaking into
people's houses, pulling the bed clothes off re-
spectable women in the night? No, the Elders
have been protected from such outrages. 
Does the blood of the martyred Saints cry
from that land, "How long, O Lord, holy and
true and righteous God, dost thou not judge
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell
upon the earth?" How is it, in this boasted
land of liberty, the dear old flag is stained
with the blood of martyrs? The escutcheon of
our once free and happy country is desecrated. 
"Hear, O ye heavens, give ear O earth, let
angels bear record of the pleading prayers
of the exiled Saints and the petitions of the
servants of the living God are ascending from
the prison walls to the throne of God. The
Constitution that was given by the inspira-
tion of His Almighty power, guarantees to all
of her subjects the right to worship Him ac-
cording to the dictates of their own consciences. 
This is not all; there are thousands of women
to-day petitioning to the Chief Executive of
the nation to redress them of the wrongs in-
flicted upon them by that infamous bill known
as the Edmunds Law; but thank God there
are such men as Brown, Teller and others, who
have had the moral courage to speak in defence
of the oppressed; may they be promoted and
their names live in honorable remembrance in
the hearts of every true lover of liberty.
