OUR CHILDREN.

	A pitiful and also very instructive story was re-
lated to me the other evening by a lady friend. It
was of a little girl, who, from birth, was the idol-
ized pet of her father, mother, relatives and
friends. When she was four years old, she was 
presented with a fine baby brother. Being of a
gentle, retiring nature, the little girl listened with
marked attention to the praises and compliments
showered upon the new baby, without giving utter-
ance to her own opinion of him, or the feelings
his presence created with her.
	Not long after the birth of the baby boy, the
parents were alarmed at the discovery that their
cherished first born, who up to that time had been
remarkably well, was gradually failing in health,
and to render the matter still more serious, no
clue could be obtained to the cause of the child’s
decline, though the parents employed their best
efforts, assisted by competent medical advisers.
The child could give no reason herself why she
no longer had any desire to eat, why her play-
things were all uninteresting to her, or why she
seemed nervous and restless in her sleep; yet cer-
tain it was that she had changed from a happy,
rosy little girl to a pensive, pale one, and still
grew paler and weaker every day.
	She was one day quietly sitting by herself, as
children often do, when her father drew very near
to her without attracting her attention. He
watched her carefully, and listened earnestly to
catch the words she was uttering, hoping to find
some trace of the cause of her late apathy, and he
was rewarded. He heard her say, “Tommy is
everything now, everybody loves Tommy, but
they don’t care anything about me any more!"
	The truth burst suddenly upon the father’s
mind—his little girl was pining for the love she
thought she had lost in the advent of her baby
brother. She had given no sign of vengeful feel-
ings, as some little ones do who consider their
rights infringed upon, but her sensitive nature
could not well endure the sudden change of hear-
ing and seeing another take the first place in every
one’s affection, which had formerly been her own.
It was a well timed and most fortunate discovery.
The parents took good care that their little
daughter did not again feel the want of love and
attention, and she was soon nursed and petted
back to her wonted health and happiness.
	When I heard this story it forcibly reminded me
of  twolovely little girls who recently lived near


me. Both were very sweet in their dispositions
and smart to learn, but in some respects the
younger surpassed the elder. It often occurred to
me that too much notice was taken of these differ-
ences, by those who loved the children best. I
never looked into the face of the elder sister with-
out seeing there a pale, soft melancholy, which
always won my sympathy, and I never listened to
recitals of the younger one's superiority without
wishing in my heart that something might also be
told concerning the worth of the other.
	These are subjects well worth careful considera-
tion. Little hearts are often so sensitive that they
grieve over very little things. The never ending
variety which exists in all the creations of our
Father, is no where more noticeable than among
our little ones. Their faces, their voices and
their dispositions all differ in one way or another,
giving to each certain marks of individuality.
	What a study is here offered for parents! How
to train their children that each one may be most
useful and happy in his or her particular sphere;
how to measure for each a just amount of time for
work, for study and for play; a reasonable share
of reproof, without which scarcely any child can
be wisely reared; and enough and no more of en-
couragement and praise.
	Very much is contained in the Bible, Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants that will
greatly aid parents in the all important duties of
training their children, and every mother should
seek diligently to learn the revealed word of the
Lord on this weighty subject.
								LULA.


