	DEAR FRIENDS:

	I am in doubt as to whether you ever
cast a thought out here to this central portion
of the U. S. A., being so absorbed in your vari-
ous cares at home, that you do not find time
to roam, perhaps, even in thought so far away.
It seems an age waiting to hear direct from
you.
	Glorious spring! arrayed in all her magnifi-
cent robes of beauty, is around me, yet the
world is so full of chaos, caused by the very 
essence of sin poured out unsparingly by the
arch fiend, that I cannot rejoice as I otherwise 
would in nature's brilliant adorning at this
most delightful and unusually advanced, grace-
fully budding and blooming season. The EX-
PONENT for May 1st has been tardy in appear-
ing, but pays for delay in its variety and 
charmingly interesting make up—from "The
Marriage of the Flowers"—

	Such a pretty thing in rhyme, 
	It sat my thoughts a roving 
	To gardens sweet with thyme;
	To blooming fields of clover,
	I crossed on time's bridge over, 
	And soon became a rover
	In youth's enchanted clime; 
	Where sweetest notes were sounded
	In strains that were divine, 
	And I would continue further, 
	But excuse me, just this time.

	Each article in its place was duly read and 
traced all through, each little column, from
Household Hints to advertisements, and al-
though some things related made me a shade
more sad, others compensated and made me
rather glad; as for instance, "Why Is It?"
"Watch the Children's Feet," "Armenian
Sketches," excellent! "Washington Notes," 
unique! The poem to Marinda, fresh from a
loving heart, was justly due to memory, as she
holds a sacred part with all the good and true
and I fain would add my tribute of sincere
praises too. "Spring!" Beautiful, vernal queen, 
crowned with bays supernal, by Royalty well
sung, subject most prolific for ready pen or
tongue. It sent my pulses bounding to read
its praises o'er, and hum that old song over, oft
trilled in days of yore, when but a very child-
ling on the threshold of life's door. Thanks
for the inspiration, 'tis worthy of a King, to
stir the chords of memory, folded beneath
time's wing, till there comes a grand rehear-
sal of life's early days in spring, and grateful
thanks we render to our Sister Poet King. 
					L. M. HEWLINGS. 
	Atchison, May 19th, 1886.


The women suffragists seem to be quite en-
couraged upon the whole by the recent for-
tunes of their cause. The slowest and hard-
est place is perhaps Massachusetts.—Salem
Observer.

	The Indians of Alaska are skillful silver-
smiths, and their silver bracelets are in de-
mand. A lame workman is in special repute;
he sells dozens of bracelets at good prices on
the arrival of each steamer. This Indian is a 
very rapid workman; from a piece of coin he
will make a beautifully chased ring in an hour
or so with his rude tools.


