	WOMAN'S RIGHT TO THE BALLOT. 

	It is only a question of time when the right
of woman to vote will be admitted in all civil-
ized communities, where the franchise is exer-
cised at all. Arguments as to the wisdom of
giving to woman such a right may be multiplied
without end, but such objections—those of
policy—can be urged with equal force against
many classes of men who now have the privil-
ege of voting—but that it is just that woman
has a right to be allowed to vote cannot be
controverted, and I look upon it as only a
question of time when pig-headed men who

[Column 2]
pass for statesmen will have the fact that
woman is a responsible being, capable of exer-
cising equal judgment with men in these mat-
ters, beaten into their thick noddles. Not that
it is certain to produce the good results claimed
for it by those who most ardently advocate it
as a panacea for all existing political ends,
but as a matter of justice, pure and simple, 
independent of expedience or probable results. 
Politics is a species of lottery. One never
knows how measures or plans turn out, and in
voting for parties and for measures which are
debatable (and what measure is not) it is
simply a guess, and there is no percentage in
favor of intelligence or purity when the result
is purely suppositional. Politics is become so
hopelessly dirty a stream one is bound to be-
lieve womankind cannot purify it. All things, 
however, are but furtherances of God's great
plans, and whether women vote or not, whether
politics are pure or not, it is certain that great
problems are ever being worked out, and I 
have no reason to assume that intelligence or
even purity are greater factors than ignorance
and vice in their solution, especially as the ex-
istence of all conditions are essential to the
bringing about of the ever mastering and di-
vine purposes. There is no reason why woman
should not vote, and there is no assurance that
either her privilege to vote or that of man
will effect any material alteration in the course 
of events, guiding and directing which there
is an omniscient and alwise intelligence. 
	Even if there will be happy results from the
universal extention of the franchise, which I 
expect to live long enough to see an accom-
plished fact, women lose nothing in the effort
required to obtain that to which they are so
justly entitled. Nothing worth having is ever 
"lightly won," and the franchise will be valued,
like a good dress, at what it cost. Besides the
struggle develops and educates the woman, and
it fits her for the trust, admitting it to be such, 
when the right to vote is accorded. The most
lamentable thing in this connection is to see the
petty subterfuges to which men resort, and the
degrading ideas advanced, in the hope of stay-
ing a movement which grows only the stronger
from the opposition with which it is forced to 
contend. Some of the speeches made in Great 
Britain and recorded in the papers are so eg-
gregiously asinine that the more intelligent
opponents of woman's suffrage should have hid 
themselves in shame to think that their co-
laborers could be so superlatively silly. No
sort of argument could speak such volumes in
favor of the right of women to vote, as do
some of the idiotic effusions which are intended 
to oppose it. The British public moves slowly, 
but it is reasonably sure. It will be a little 
difficult to educate it up to the point of
womam's suffrage, but it can be educated and
will grant the right freely when the enlighten-
ing process has done its work. A number of
energetic women keep plodding away with a 
dogged persistency which gives the lie to the 
oft quoted passage, "Woman, thy name is
frailty," as effectually as it does to a sister ut-
terance which declares that "caprice" and
"woman" are interchangeable terms, and their
perseverance is being rewarded by the conver-
sion of able men to their views who are also
laboring in the same direction. 
	It is strange, but true, that the Irish are do-
ing a great deal for woman's suffrage in Great
Britain, but doing it unwittingly. The Home
Rule meal is leavening the whole lump of


British politics. It is liberalizing ideas fast,
and one of the advantages to women will be
that people will more readily grant justice to
women when the great principle that the right
to elect the government should be shared by
all the governed is accepted as the fundamental
basis on which to give justice. It is not sur-
prising that a country where they punish and
imprison people for attempting suicide (unless
the punishment is given as a penalty for failure)
should be tardy in acknowledging the equal
right of woman with man to vote;but that they
should be so niggardly and mean about it in
the “land of the free and the home of the
brave” (save us heaven!) is one of the evi-
dences that in America demagogues and politi-
cal hypochondriacs have taken the place of
statesmen, and that as a nation the United
States is struggling back into the last century.
The best thing that could possibly happen the
United States would be a number of prominent
funerals. As it is said the prayers of the
righteous availeth much, for heaven’s sake let
the righteous be pursuaded to plead with Provi-
dence to give us a chance to go into, a pro-
longed period of national mourning.
