		MORMON WOMEN.

	It is known to comparatively few people, 
perhaps, that there is a commission of Mormon
women from Utah in the city. They seek re-
dress for wrongs in the names of over 2,000
ladies who assembled at Salt Lake City in
mass meeting March 6, 1886, representing the
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of the
whole territory. A Republican representative 
met the commission by appointment at the
headquarters on Grant place yesterday after
noon and confronted four well-favored agreea-
ble and intelligent women. Mrs. Emeline B.
Wells, the editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
published semi-monthly at Salt Lake City, 
seemed by common consent to be the chairman. 
Mrs. Wells is the plural wife of Gen. D. H. 
Wells, who was counsel to Brigham Young. 
Mrs. Wells was born a Puritan in Massa-
chusetts, but was converted with her mother
and went to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1884, and was
married in Salt Lake City in 1852. Dr. 
Ellen B. Ferguson was born at Cambridge, 
Eng.; was married in London, and came to
this country in 1875, in consequence of em-
bracing the Mormon faith in Illinois. Her
husband died in 1880, and both were Mormons, 
but were never in polygamy. Mrs. Emily S. 
Richards and Mrs. Josephine West were born
in the Mormon church of parents who lived 
in polygamy. They were young women, have
each been married several years, and have had
numerous children, and Mrs. West has an in-
fant with her. 
	In answer to a question concerning their
mission to the capital, Mrs. Wells said: 
	"Our mission to Washington at this present
time is to present memorials which we brought
ourselves, being properly accredited, for the
President, the senate, and the house. The
first was delivered to the Chief Magistrate on 
April 3, when we had an interview with him; 
that to the senate was presented by Mr. Blair
on the 6th. He was selected because he
voted against the Edmunds bill, and is b[--]ides
a woman's suffragist, and ex-Gov. Long, of
Massachusetts, who is a suff[-]agist also, had

[Column 2]
charge of the document for the house, which
has been referred to the judiciary com-
mittee. In the senate the memorial was allowed 
to lie on the table, and appeared in full in
The Record of April 7." 
	"Having presented your memorial, what do
you propose to do further in the matter?" 
	"We shall do all in our power to correct
the evil and sensational reports that are daily 
being disseminated among the people of the
east from the pulpit and by the press. We
have some books and pamphlets which we will
gladly give to inquirers, and we invite in-
vestigation, and are ready to answer ques-
tions." 
	"What is the condition of affairs in Utah
that compel you to make this protest?" 
	"The Edmunds law, which was passed in
1882," said Dr. Ferguson, "with a view of
prohibiting and doing away with polygamy,
has been the means of inflicting much suffer-
ing upon the people who do not come within 
the penal scope of the law, through the malad-
ministration of officials. As will be seen
from our memorial we complain that young 
children are brought into court and plied with
indecent questions; tender women in delicate
health are asked impertinent aud insulting
questions in court, and many of our leading
men and priests of Mormonism are driven into
hiding by the exactions of the officials. The
juries are composed of men known to be an-
tagonistic to Mormonism, and no Mormon is
permitted to sit upon juries. The men and
women living in polygamous marriage have
been disenfranchised, but monogamous Mor-
mons, men and womn, still vote. It is not 
true that the women vote at the dictation of
Mormon officials. The ballot is secret and no
one has any means of knowing how another
votes. The Gentile ring in Utah," continued
Dr. Ferguson, "is not making a crusade
against polygamy but is agitating matters and
moving for adverse legislation in order to get
the local and elective offices of the terri-
tory under their control. The elec-
tive and territorial offices are now all held
by Mormons. Should the ring succeed in dis-
enfranchising monogamous Mormons, although
greatly in the minority, they would manipu-
late territorial affairs, to suit themselves. All
we can do to foil the political conspirators is
to enlighten public sentiment on all that per-
tains to Mormons and Mormonism." 
	In reply to n question as to what made the
Church of the Latter-day Saints so fascinating 
to women, Mrs. Wells resumed. "We feel that
the doctrines are the truth, and feel like cling-
ing to them at any sacrifice. I know there is
more liberty for women in the Mormon Church
than in any other in the world. The women
vote not only upon all political questions, but
upon religious tenets as well. We believe in 
a pre-existence and future state of progression
and the discipline of plural marriage is a cor-
rective to supreme selfishness. The great wrong
congress is doing in enforcing the Edmunds
law is the breaking up of families, the ruin of 
hearts and homes, and disgracing the women
and making their children outcasts. 
	"Mormons believe that a man can love more
than one woman just as a mother's love is not 
confined to one child," said Mrs. Richards.
"My husband and I talked the matter all over
before marriage. We both came from parents
who lived in polygamy, but we were the chil-
dren of the first wives, and no Mormon
youth would marry a girl who was not a good
Mormon in all that the word implies. We
were born and brought up in the church, and
when we arrived at years of responsibility we
adopted the faith as our own. We have seen
the power given the saints; that the Lord
prospered them in temporal things as well as
in spiritual things."


Mrs. West is the daughter of an apostle of
the Church, and avers that if she had a score
of children would bring them all up to be
Latter-day Saints. She is enthuiastic about
the superior principles of her religion, and
says Mormons are not living for the present
only, but for the glory of eternity, and are
willing to make sacrifices here for the future
exaltation.—Washington National Republican.


