TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING POST:
	Sir:—Your editorial of Saturday evening,
on the Anti-Mormon Bill that has just passed
the Senate, evinces the fact that you are not
ready to countenance a law that looks to the
confiscation of a religious community's proper-
ty because some of its members are alleged
criminals.
	The proposition to put fourteen United
States officials into a religious corporation,
against thirteen honest fanatics, avowedly to
outvote the representatives of the rightful
owners of the property, and thereby to steal, in
the name of the United States Government,
subtsance that belongs to the Mormon com-
munity as justly as Trinity Church belongs to 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, seems a cum-
brous and expensive mode of robbery.
	It differs, however, not in spirit—only in its
modus operandi—from the proposition of one 
of the leading lights in Massachusetts theology
and ethics, who proposed to set a wateh for
William Penn and his co-religionists, that they
might be captured before landing, their sub-
stance taken, and their persons enslaved. The
early New England saint thought it sufficient-
ly stimulating to the enterprise of his co-saints,
to point out the fact that the pestilent Quakers
were rich, especially their leader, and that
their substance should be laid hold of for the
use and benefit of the orthodox. He did not
propose to limit the expedition to a bare ma-
ority, in order to accomplish the robbery; nor
did he propose to make the thieves salaried
officers of the Commonwealth; but he did pro-
pose that the Commonwealth should stand by
and protect them by their great moral worth
and godly influence. 
	Political and ethical evolution have wrought
their refinements since the days of which I 
have spoken, and Mr. Edmunds, a New Eng-
land saint, adjusted to the environment of
modern hypocrisy, proposes to rob a whole
community because some of its members are 
alleged to be guilty of "lascivious cohabita-
tion;”a thing that he knows is common through-
out the United States, yea, in his own town,
his own State, and in an aggravated form, in
the great capital, where a strict enforcement
of the law would place some of those who
helped to make it, behind the bars.
	Should the House pass this bill, and it be-
come a law, its reactive influence will be so
great and rapid, that in the near future the
Mormons will have to be enumerated by mil-
lions, instead of by hundreds of thousands, as
at present.
	Legislation so palpably unjust, unconstitu-
tional and tyrannous, is sure to defeat the sub-
ject aimed at, and raise up friends and support-
ors of the persecuted. 
	To pass a law that would compel the public 
registration of all marriages in Utah, and
other Territories, so that the Mormon so-called
celestial marriages could not be kept secret,
and thus facilitate the trial and conviction of
those guilty of an indictable offence, would be
the work of statesmen, But to enact this in-
famous measure, which would turn loose upon
an honest, industrious, religious community a
band of legalized, salaried robbers, would be
something that ought to cause the modern
Turk to hang his head in guilty shame.
	Furthermore: If this bill should become a
law, it will give the Supreme Court a finer job
of hair-splitting and “outside work to establish
its constitutionality, than did the Reynolds’
case, under the Cullom-Poland law; which de-
cision was confessedly outside the Constitu-
tion.’ ”
	The “perpetual emigration fund,” the ob-
jective point of this legislation, is, in the

[Column 2]
rictest ecclesiastical sense, a “religious fund,”
gathered in strict, voluntary obedience to the
divine law of tithing, as given by Moses: 
Consecrated by the sweat and tears and pray-
ers of the fanatics who earned and gave it for
the purpose of "gathering the faithful to
Zion."
	The Constitution says:  "Congress shall make
no law respecting an establishment of religion,
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
	This bill proposes to violate both ends of this
Constitutional prohibition. It not only pro-
poses to “prohibit the free exercise” of Mor-
monisin, but to "establish,” regulate and ad-
minister the ism.
	The Supreme Court will hardly say that
money—which is always and everywhere ortho-
dox—voluntarily gathered according to the
Mosaical law of tithing for religious uses, is
not “religion” in the constitutional sense.
	If this goes through, and the Supreme
Court sustains its constitutionality, what is to
hinder the Romanists of New York from go-
ing to Albany, in solid phalanx, where they
could hire cheap legislators enough to assist
them in passing a law, giving the State, thus
Romanised, the power to administer the funds
of Trinity Church corporation—which is no
more genuinely religious, nor honest, in its
holy purposes than is the Mormon emigration
fund—in the interest of the State, by Roman
Priests, appointed by a Romanised Governor?
What Rome could do in New York and
Louisiana, Methodit-ism and Baptist-ism could 
do in many of the other States.
	BALLARD S. DUNN,
Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y.


[Column 1]
