		﻿WASHINGTON JOTTINGS.

	It is very difficult out of so much material to
know which will be the most interesting to the
readers of the Exponent, but we will try to touch
briefly on some of the most important events now
in progress or just past. Easter festivals were
pretty generally celebrated. Easter lilies, and
other flowers of the choicest varieties were
plentifully used to decorate and the great abund-
ance of Easter cards and gifts were as varied as
the tastes of the purchasers. The Roman Catho-
lics celebrations surpass all others in point of
grandeur and imposing effects, and consequently
draw great crowds of people to see the ornamenta-
tion. Early morning masses were the first ex-
ercises and afterwards services for the people and
sermons with the most impressive music. Easter
Sunday is the great festival of the Resurrection,
and all the pomp and ceremony possible, one
would imagine, is observed to represent the risen
Christ.  The candles burning among the most
beautiful lilies and foliage lend a sort of enchant-
ment to the scene and the rich music and cere-
monials of the robed priests and nuns are all cal-
culated to produce solemnity and awaken senti-
ment in the hearts of those who have not known
a “better way,” a more sublime method of recog-
nition of the Savior's ascension. The sanctuaries
of the churches were most elaborately decorated
and brilliantly lighted. The carol singing was
full of melody, and the children in white with
their long veils and bouquets of flowers, march-
ing through the aisles of the Church were a lovely
and imposing sight.
	Another very pretty practice, and one very in-
teresting to the children is egg rolling. Monday
after Easter large numbers of children gather
on the White House grounds and enjoy this annu-
al custom of rolling Easter eggs down the grassy
knolls. They take a lunch out with them and
have a regular pic-nic on the grass and thoroughly
enjoy the sport. This year we were told Presi-
dent Cleveland shook hands with hundreds of
these happy little people.
	Now the gay season after Lent has begun and
a great variety of entertainments are already on
the tapis. One of the most unique entertainments
now open is “The Village Fair at the W. L. I.
Corps Armory. Like the Fairs in England it was
opened by the ’Squire, who made a speech in
“bonbastic phrase.” He was a jolly looking,
stout English ’Squire in breeches and hose, short
of breath followed by a troop of village maidens
One of the distinctive features of the evening was
the appearance of the great physician to the
Emperor of all the Chinas, who performed magic
tricks and exploited the great cures effected by
his nostrums. Strolling players, a Turkish
booth and the white Elephant of Burmah and a
shadow pantomine were attractive parts of the
show. Another famous social event is the Kirmes
which was given at the National Theatre. The
affair was managed by leading society ladies.
There were a variety of dances given in costnme
the Tyrolean by sixty dancers all in the peasant
holiday dress of the Tyrols, then the flower
dance—thirty two young ladies as flowers and
twelve as bees.  Of the flowers there were eight
poppies, eight daisies, eight roses, eight violets.
Then followed the Swedish in costume, Indian
dance composed of young people of the families of
Senators and Representatives, Minuet, Japanese,
and Gypsy dances. On the stage were the musici-
ans and four booths, the central portion being oc-

[Column 2]
cupied by the ladies of the committee. On the
left of the stage was the Oriental booth and ad-
joining was the gypsy encampment.
	There have been two deaths recently of dis-
tinguished Roman Catholic clergyman. Father
Ryan well known as the “Poet Priest” died on 
the 22nd of April in Louisville He distinguished
himself recently as a lecturer,but as an author he is
more widely and favorably known.  The writer
while traveling in the East during the past winter
heard some very interesting incidents concerning
the deceased, and become much interested
in his poetry.  The poems most admired
by the masses are “The Conquered Banner"
and “The Sword Of Lee.” After the
funeral exercises in Louisville, the remains were
taken to Mobile. The last tribute laid upon his
coffin was an immense passion cross of lilies sur-
mounted by a Niel rose crown and resolutions
were read by Gen. Alpheus Baker. These reso-
lutions are something very different from those
ordinarily prepared for like occasions.
	The other priest alluded to as having passed
away was Father Maguire,whose funeral services
were solemnized in the Church of St. Aloysius in
this city.  Arch bishop Gibbons and many priests,
about fifty in number, were present.
	That which will interest our readers most
is of quite a dfferent character to the events al-
ready alluded to.	
	The arguments before the Supreme Court of
the United States in the case of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow begun April 28th, and continued two
days. The opening of the case was made by Hon.
F. S. Richards, and while listening to the presen-
tation we could not help feeling a good degree of
pride in our young friend and brother for the
masterly manner in which he laid the matter be-
fore the Chief Justice and his associate judges.
He covered the ground carefully not failing in
a single particular. He was followed by George
Ticknor Curtis, Esquire, an eminent lawyer and
author of several standard books, a man held in
very high esteem in literary and social circles and
a man thoroughly versed in the Law. He made a
grandly eloquent and pathetic appeal, as well as
presenting logical and unanswerable arguments
on all the points in question. His manner was
earnest, impressive and thoroughly genuine, he
evidently spoke from the depths of his heart.
His speech has since been published in pamphlet
form, and a part of Mr. Richards’ along with it.
It was a brilliant effort and plea for justice and
religions liberty and rights of conscience, and
we trust copies of it will be widely circulated.
	The Assistant Attorney General represented the
government, and his speech throughout was bitter,
and some parts of it scathing in the extreme. He
seemed to forget the dignity of the position he
occupied, and of the temple of justice in which he
stood and the august presence of the Judges be-
fore whom he was arguing for this free and glori-
ous government, one might have thought that he
was totally oblivious to all save the simple fact
that he stood there not to interpret the law and
ask that it be observed or enforced, but to vent
his own spleen upon an unpopular people, and
pour forth a tirade of abuse such as we trust has
never before been heard at the most exalted tri-
bunal of this great and free Republic. Mr. Rich-
ards closed and submitted the case in such a calm,
fervent and unimpassioned manner, after all the
taunts and aspersions of his opponent, that it
would seem impossible for any one who possessed
an honest soul not to discover the difference be-
tween the spirit of the two arguments. Mr.
Richards deserves the highest encomiums of
praise from the people he represents, for the very
able and impressive speeches made in this im-
portant case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. 		
	The hearing before the Sub-Committee of the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives fol-


[Column 1]
lowed close upon the case in the Supreme
Court.  The first argument on our side of the
question was made by Mr. Chandler, attorney at
law.  He was very positive and made strong
points, bringing forward abundant testimony
from standard legal books to substantiate
his assertions.  Baskin had already been granted
a hearing, and had made many erroneous state-
ments, that required contradiction.
	The next day F. S. Richards and A. M. Gibson
occupied the time, covering, it would seem, the
entire ground in the most able and dignified man-
ner.  Their arguments were deep, far reaching
and sound, and ought to have impressed all who
listened to them with their genuineness and mat-
ter of fact style of logic.  They stuck to the sub-
ject, not rambling off into unknown regions for
the sake of effect, or skimming over the ground
without plunging into its depths, but faithfully
summing up the whole matter in brief, so that all
who were not blind might see the situation clearly.
	George F. Boutwell, formerly a member of
Congress, from Mass., and also Governor of that
grand old State, made one of the most eloquent
speeches that it was possible for anyone to make
on the unconstitutionality of the Edmunds bill.
His age, his tone of voice, his prestige, and above
all his impressive eloquence of style, all told
powerfully in favor of those he represented.  He
was followed by Mr. Chandler on some particular
points in question, who referred to authorities on
the subject, and the next in order was Mr. Baskin,
the representative of the so-called “Liberals” in
Utah, who gave his startling and bombastic tirade
on Monday, May 3rd; it lasted four whole hours.
He pictured the “Mormons” as the most despic-
able of all human beings.  To hear him talk, they
are too wicked to be suffered to live on the earth,
yet Mr. Baskin stood there and told  them that he
had lived right among this people for twenty years.
O consistency, where hast thou fled?  The man
literally wore himself out abusing the “Mor-
mons;” he completely exhausted all his energies,
physical and mental, and on his face was the look
of abject despair as he closed his speech, and one
would suppose from his manner he was also
ready to give up the ghost.  The next morning
Hon. Joseph A. West, of Ogden, occupied a part
of the time, and refuted many of the unjust and
cruel aspersions cast upon the “Mormon” people
by Mr. Baskin, who is not at all above associating
with our people at home, but in Washington one
would suppose to hear him that he could not look
upon a Mormon with any degree of complacency.
Our Utah Delegate to Congress, Mr. Caine, made
a long and exhaustive argument, meeting and ex-
plaining away all the objective points made by Mr.
Baskin.  It positively seemed as if the opponent
had not a pin’s head to stand upon.
	Throughout the entire proceedings the Chair-
man, the Hon. John Randolph Tucker, main-
tained the most perfect equanimity and good na-
ture.  He seemed not only willing, but anxious to
arrive at an understanding of all the matter in
dispute on either side, and to accord the best op-
portunity possible for free and full discussion of
the subject.  He deserves gratitude for the unpre-
judiced and unbiased spirit he manifested through-
out the entire proceedings.
	One important fact, that impressed itself most
powerfully upon the writer, was that the principles
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ were being taught
in the Capitol of the nation, and in the Judicial
department, the Temple of Justice, the Supreme
Court, the highest tribunal to which appeal can be
made in this free and enlightened country; also in
the Committee room of the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, and everything brought
up against us by the opponents of “Mormonism”
only gave greater opportunity to defend the peo-
ple and advocate and explain the principles, and
institutions that exist in the Church, surely “God
moves in a mysterious way His wonders to per-

[Column 2]
form.”  There are many interesting items con-
nected with these hearings that may be summed
up at another time, but lest our readers tire of
these topics, we forbear for the present, hoping
when at home again to devote more time to the
articles which have always been sent off in haste
while journeying from place to place, or sojourn-
ing at the Capitol.


