EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I believe you have, through the columns of your
paper, extended an invitation to the different set-
tlements to write to you occasionally.  When you


hear from us if you always hear something abou
a surprise.  I hope you will not think we have
nothing to do but study up something of the kind.
I trust our hearts are at least partially alive to the
duties in the great work in which we are engaged,
and as our motto has always been to look on the
bright side, though the clouds may hang heavy
above us, if we will watch and wait we are sure to
see the silver lining, our lives are composed of
sunshine and shadow and an agreeable sur-
prise is like a ray of light across our paths.
	April 6th the members of Y. L. M. I. A. with
united guests from the Relief Society, and our
honored Stake president C. Layton and lady,
also a number of brethren from the ward met to
present Sister Nancy M. Rollins (their late Presi-
dent) with a token of respect.  The company
were there seated around the hall, and the tables
were spread with the good things of the land ere
she made her appearance.  She was met at the door
by President Janie Wright and Counselors who
gave her a hearty welcome and led her to a seat,
she was then presented with a nice dress pattern,
and appropriate resolutions of respect were read
by Counselor Almeda Welker, to which she re-
sponded with a short address.  Said she would
not attempt to describe her feelings but could 
truly say she was surprised and pleased to meet
with us on this occasion.
	The company were there seated around the
table and all partook until they were satisfied,
after which the programme was engaged in
as   follows:    songs,    recitations,    select
readings and the Young Ladies' manuscript paper
was read by Counselor Louisa Peel.  President
Layton and Brother Weech of Pima made some
very interesting remarks.
	President Janie Wright thanked the company
for their kind attention and hoped they had been
well repaid for coming.  Singing.  Benediction
by Bro. Peel.
	On the evening of May 8th the Primary Asso-
 ciation gave a surprise to their late President,
Sister Annie Packer.  The evening was spent in 
singing recitations picnic etc. both old and young
seemed to enjoy themselves very much.
	The Relief Society is in good running order,
and take us all around I believe we are doing as
well as we can under the circumstances.
	ALMEDIA WELKER, Secretary pro tem.


[Column 1]
