MISCELLANEOUS.

	Large charity doth never soil, but only
whitens soft white hands.
	Charities should be diffused. Grain will
not grow if piled in a heap; it must be
scattered.
	A bill of-fare book is a good thing. A
plain, strong blank book is what is needed.
Every day when the morning’s work is done,
sit down and write therein what you will have
for the next dinner, supper and breakfast. In
this way a pleasant variety and a better class
of cooking will be secured and all needed
preparations can be made methodically, in-
stead of a harum-scarum, hurried manner at
the last moment. This is good for all; but es-
pecially useful where a servant does the cook-
ing.
	“The Punishment of Children” was the sub-
ject of Prof. Felix Adler’s recent lecture be-
fore the Society of Ethical Culture, in Phila-
delphia. Professor Adler said:
	"Never punish a child in anger. Let the
anger burning within you subside. An angry
person is always liable to overshoot the mark—
can never be perfectly just. Whether corporal
punishment is ever admissible is an open
question. There are reasons outside of senti-
ment against it. Corporal punishment tends
to brutalize a child; it tends to make children
cowards and it blunts the sense of shame.”
	Many a tired housewife  thinks that when
she is able to keep help she will lie abed in the
morning till breakfast is ready and take it
easy. But when she gets help, and good
help, too, she will find that the work of the
household will not go to suit her,
unless she goes before it and through it and
all around it herself. If the mistresss
takes a long morning nap, the maid is
pretty likely to conclude that a morning’s
nap is nice for her, too; and the result is a de-
layed breakfast, spoiled in the hurry of cook-
ing, and a general disarrangement of the morn-
ing's work to follow. It may not be a restful
thought, but it is true, that if a mistress would
have a servant prompt, tidy, honest, and
thorough, she must herself set a worthy ex-
ample of all these qualities. She must be up be-
times in the morning to lead and plan and di-
rect the starting of the household machinery.
A company of soldiers won’t accomplish much
unless the captain rides at their head.—The
Housekeeper.


