DISEASED MONEY.

	A writer in the Manufacturer and Builder
gives some very pertinent advice on this sub-
ject: 
	In the numerous speculations as to the va-
riety of ways and channels through which the
germs of contagious disease may be dissemi-
nated, there is one to which but little or no
importance has thus far been attached, but
which, nevertheless, probably plays an import-
ant role. We refer to that universal circulating
medium—money. It passes impartially from
the hand of the millionaire into that of the 
beggar, constantly circulatimg through every
class and condition of society. The person of
fastidious tastes, who will turn from his path 
rather than risk coming into actual contact 
with others of un[-]lanly dress or person will
receive, handle and carry in his pocket with-
out the slightest symptoms of disgust, or per-
haps without giving it a thought, money that
has thousands of times passed through hands
or reposed in pockets whose contact he would
deem to be pollution.  
	In respect to the dangers that may arise from
this cause, paper money is undoubtedly more
to be feared than coin, and the indescribably
filthy appearance of much of that which is 
seen in circulation is familiar to all who read
this. That the handling of such nasty stuff is
often fraught with serious danger, no sensible
person can doubt. It would be well if the
system said to be in vogue in certain countries
of Europe, of destroying every note that comes
into the banks and issuing new ones in their
stead were practiced with us, though even this
would only to some extent lessen and not do
away with the danger.
	But though paper currency is the most to
be feared on the score of communicating dis-
ease, coin is by no means free from danger of
the same kind. It has been shown that the
blackish coating, which may be seen in the re-
cesses and in the milled edges of coins that
have been in circulation for a short time, con-
sists of organic filth which when introduced 
into distilled water and examined under the
microscope was found to be swarming with
bacteria and fungi. 
	We are not sanguine enough to expect that
our readers shall decline to touch or handle 
the stuff, for the reasons here pointed out, but 
we can not refrain from uttering our protest
against the unutterable nastiness, of which
many persons are guilty who would feel them-
selves deeply insulted at any insinuation of a 
lack of refinement or good breeding, of placing


paper currency or coin in the mouth for tem-
porary convenience, while making change or
the like. This most disgusting habit is, singu-
larly enough, confined almost exclusively to
womankind, and is an act of thoughtlessness
which, if any who read this ever practiced, 
we feel sure they will never do again.—Ex.


