EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a line from Hyrum
might be acceptable I send a synopsis of the
18th anniversary of the Relief Society, which
was held at 10 a. m. in the public hall, Hyrum, 
May 8th, 1886. The hall was neatly decorated
for the occasion by the young ladies. There
were present, Prest. Adaline Barber, Sisters
Zina D. Young, Crowther, Pike, Woolf and
Turner. Bishop S. M. Molen and Counselors
several other brethren, and a large attendance
of members of the Relief Society and Y. L. 
M. I. A. After opening exercises the report
was laid before the meeting and accepted and
officers sustained as they stood before.
	Sister Zina D. Young addressed the meeting 
on training our children aright, said a child's 
education should begin as soon as it is born.
It is the duty of every mother to instil into her
children the principles of the Gospel; spoke of
the persecutions that are heaped upon us as a
people. If we have faith we will come out all
right. Also spoke in behalf of the Hospital.
	Prest. A. Barber said, if we are faithful we
have nothing to fear, the Lord has promised to
be our battle axe. Teach your sons and
daughters to keep the commandments of God.
Your report is excellent, always keep a copy
of your report. Gave very good counsel on
different subjects. Sisters Woolf, Pike and
Crowther each spoke a short time; were pleased
to meet with the sisters in Hyrum, and to hear
the excellent instructions.
	Miss S. Thorn of Brigham city next suug
a song entitled "Some day I'll wander back
again,"
	Patriarch O. N. Liljenquist gave very good
and fatherly counsel, exhorted all to faithful-
ness.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop Molen.
	At the close of the meeting the tables were
spread on the stand, and a very nice dinner was
partaken of by a large majority of the
brethren and sisters. The feast was for the
benefit of the widows, and missionaries wives 
and the aged sisters. H. A. Shaw, E. Peter-
son M. Neilson and S. McBride were the com-
mittee for the occasion and they spared no
pains to make all happy, all went off well and
every one felt that it was good to be there.
		Very respectfully,
			N. M. NEILSON, Secretary.


