	GOLDEN WEDDING.

	The fiftieth anniversary of the marriage of
Elder Jospeh Horne and his wife, Mary Isabella,
was celebrated at the old homestead in the Four-
teenth Ward of this city, on the 9th of May, with
family and friends, and was a most unique and en-
joyable gathering.  It is a rare occurrence in the
lives of married people to live half a century with-
out one or the other passing away; and perhaps
rarer still to have so numerous and noble a pos-
terity as Bro. and Sister Horne have around them.
They were married on the 9th of May, 1836, and
two months afterwards they were baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints by Elder Orson Hyde, so that the
date of their marriage and baptism is within the
same year.  A sumptuous dinner was prepared by
the children at the paternal mansion, and many
sons and daughters and grandchildren sat down
to the abundant repast.  The evening was spent
in social, family enjoyment, and the grandchildren
entertained the older ones with music, recitations
and songs.
	On Monday evening the family and many of 
their relatives, nearly a hundred in all, assembled at
their residence, though many friends were not
able to attend, and sent flowers, gifts and good wishes
instead.  Of those who had desired to be present,
and were not well enough, was our beloved and
venerable sister and mother in Israel, Eliza R. 
Snow Smith.  The Eldest son being absent in
Arizona, Joseph, the eldest one present, read to
the assembly letters of congratulations from
particular friends who were absent addressed to
the venerable pair on their having reached a
half century of united married happiness,
and these letters also contained expressions
of good wishes and blessings.  A telegram of
sincere congratulation was also received from
Mrs. E. B. Wells, sent from Washington, D. C.
Following these a presentation was made by
Elder Joseph Horne to his father, with a few per-
tinent remarks, of an elegant gold watch and
chain from his children, and a handsom charm
locket from his granchildren.  To the mother he
made a presentation of a watch chain and slide
with cameo,, and a pair of gold rimmed
spectacles from her children, and a heavy
gold ring of three pearls, from her
grandchildren.  One of the daughters,
Mrs. M. H. Tingey, read a very appropriate poem
written for the occassion by Mrs. E. H. Woodman-
see.  Dr. E. S. Barney read an address in behalf
of the sisters, and presented from
several of them a handsome gold thim-
ble.  From other friends Mrs. Horne
received several other valuable presents—
a gold collar button, with diamond, pretty charm
for watch chain, gold and moss agate, silver and
gold tankard, silver and gold spoonholder, gold
scarf pin, and other pretty and useful articles.
	The only person present at the golden wedding
who had witnessed the marriage ceremony of the
host and hostess, fifty years before, was the sister
of Mrs. Horne, Mrs. Harriet Ellis of Bountiful.
Bro. and Sister Horne have had a very large
family—fifteen children in all, ten of whom are
living, all honored and useful members of society,
sixty-seven grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.  The opening speech, was made by acting
Bishop Brown, who mentioned in his remarks
that it had been talked of that an entertain-
ment should be arranged by the ward at the hall,

[Column 2]
but it was given up when it was known
that the family had already made their 
preparations.  Interesting remarks were
also made by Bishop Weiler, and
Brother Geo. Price.  To these Bro. Horne re-
sponded in an appropriate speech.  Some of the
ladies also made short speeches Sisters S. M.
Kimball, E. Howard and Sister Swartz.
	There were many floral offerings, gifts of friends,
choice flowers were tastefully used to decorate the
rooms, and the portratis of Brother and Sister
Horne were wreathed around with smilax and
myrtle artistically arranged.  The bride of fifty years
was dressed in a handsome brown silk dress
with real lace collar and cuffs and she looked so
fresh and well preserved one could scarcely be-
lieve that she had lived half a century as wife and
mother, and had passed through so many of the
changing scenes of life and the drivings and mob-
bings which the Saints have suffered from time
to time. 
	We join with the many genuine friends 
of Brother and Sister Horne in
wishing them continued prosperity, happin-
ness and long life with their numerous
and noble family.  we expect to publish in our
next issue the poem written for this happy occa-
sion by our esteemed poet sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee.


