EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I find myself, in spite of all my hard work,
tired hands and weary brain just wishing to 
talk a little to you by means of the pen. Oh,
how grand it would be to just be able to ex-
press one's thoughts in a satisfactory manner,
but for me, that is impossible with my present 
stock of information. I must then try to be
content with humble efforts to do good, trust-
ing in God for aid in every attempt. Every
article I read in "our paper" gives me some
encouragement and helps to strengthen my de-
termination to go on in the good labor in
which we as Saints are engaged. My eyes are
often dimmed with falling tears as I read in
its columns of the departure to the "better
land" of some loved brother or sister leaving
friends almost frantic with grief. If it is a
wife, tenderly beloved as every true woman
should be, who can fathom the depth of a
husband's sorrow; and if a protector and guide,
who can read the anguish of that widowed
breast? None, none save those who have
drank from the same bitter cup, and that to
its very dregs. As I sit and ponder over these
things, I ask myself this question: Do we as
husbands and wives love and appreciate each
other as we should while we are privileged to
live together, or must we wait till the grave
has snatched one to begin to realize the duty
we owe to each other? In holy places we
have made sacred covenants to be true and
faithful while life shall last, and when our ex-
istence here is ended we expect to be reunited
and enjoy each other's society throughout the
countless ages of eternity. I am led to be-
lieve that when our Heavenly Father and the
holy angels witnessed the sacred ceremony
that united us, it was intended we should tread

[Column 2]
life's pathway hand in hand as loving, trust-
ing companions, and be one in very deed,
sharing joy and sorrow alike, and if pure kind-
ness is a characteristic of life O how much we
may lighten care and soften the many trials
that fall to our lot. Why I really believe
there are men who do not realize that the poor
tired woman they call wife ever needs a tender
word or a caress after the first months of 
wedded life. They forget that her heart re-
mains the same. Though the pink may fade
from her cheek and lip, and her eye seem less
bright, her natural desire to be loved, and es-
pecially by him, is unchanged, and ever will
 be if she be a desirable wife. I also have met
wives who possessed the most devoted husbands
and yet they would repulse their every act of
endearment, and were as cold and indifferent
towards the fathers of their children as a 
Northern iceberg. It is true that some natures
are quiet and undemonstrative, but surely
there is a way that those so near and dear can
be assured of the perfect love and trust of each
other. It is cruel and contrary to the will of 
God for His children to drag out a miserable
existence on this earth, heart-hungry and
weary, when He placed the desire in
the bosom of every person to be loved
and impart love to some congenial spirit.
If we truly share our husband's joy and
sorrow we will love not only our own dear
children, but we will have a tender watchcare
over all those who belong to his family. We
will regard the rights of those who stand as
our equals in every respect in the eyes of God.
Their little ones we will love; their interest we
will seek, and while they are unhappy we can-
not rejoice. My sisters, let no idle gossip fill
 your hearts with unkindness toward any mem-
ber of the family to which you belong. Re-
member, it is Satan's mission to make you un-
happy and destroy you body and soul, if you
give him power to do so. Tell him with power
to stand back. Do not take him to your
bosom and regard him as a friend, even if he
presents himself in the form of some one you
have felt to trust. That one is a false friend 
if he tries to destroy your confidence in any it
is your duty to respect.
	Let all understand that a mischief maker is
detestable to you, and the book of God has
condemned all such. Does it not say, "Blessed
is the peacemaker, for he shall inherit the
right to dwell in His kingdom?" Also,
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God." Do you think the tale bearer, the
evil speaker, who creeps into our hearts and
homes with his wily hypocrisy, can be classed 
with either of these?
	Now a word to those who are inclined to
talk: Be sure you always speak the truth, and
remember, it is not only a sin to say that
which is false, but it is also very wicked and
contemptible to tell every little thing you may
have heard for facts, when you are aware the
telling may wound hearts and injure good
names and destroy friends. None can imagine
the extent of the harm you may do just to
gratify the curiosity of your hearers and your
own insatiable desire to mind that which does
not concern you. Let me implore of you to
try to overcome this fault. Pray for our kind
Father to help you, and He will hear you and
answer your petitions if you are determined.
All good men and women will learn in time to
trust you, and how much more satisfied you
will be with yourself than when you were a 
mere tool to carry on the practices of Satan
and his train. My sisters, this is plain talk,
and it is not given to wound one tender heart,
but to remind us of the great and important
duties we owe to husbands, wives, and in fact
to all the human family.
	We are living in an eventful time, when
 great things are about to transpire, and we
must begin to make hasty preparation if we
desire to regain the time we have lost in our

[Column 3]
slowness to comprehend the things in store for
the faithful, and the necessity of our watching
our every thought  and word and deed.
	I pray that heaven may aid us to overcome
every weakness of our nature, that we may
live so pure with each other that we may one
day be worthy to enjoy this "perfect love."	
					VIOLET OWENS.
	May 4th, 1886.


