HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A little borax put into the water in which scarlet napkins
and red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent
them from fading.

	When making a new carpet, always save the ravelings
for use in darning the carpet on some future day, as the
colors will match better than any yarn you are likely to
find.	

	Sugar Cookies.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful o
butter, one cupful of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful o
baking powder, one nutmeg, flour enough to make a soft
batter, and a little salt.

	An excellent and simple disinfectant for sinks and waste
pipes is made by mixing one large tablespoonful of copperas
with one quart of boiling water. This solution is odorless,
and it deodorizes instantly.

	Turn lamp wicks down below the top of the tubes when
not lighted, and you will not be troubled with oil running
over on the outside of the lamps. If this caution is ob-
served, they may be kept clean and dry.

	To Make a Tough Fowl Tender.—The French have a
way of making a tough fowl tender in the roasting which is
worth following. It should be seasoned and tied up se-
curely in two thicknesses of soft white or pale brown paper,
and put into the oven half an hour earlier than the time
one would choose to assure its being done. It will steam
slowly in this way, and if delicately dredged with flour
when the paper is taken off at the end of the half hour in
a hot oven it will come out brown and easily carved. 

	Boiled Iceing.—The whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff
froth and two good sized cups of sugar, granulated pre-
ferred; pour enough water on the sugar to dissolve it, and
allow it to boil till quite thick syrup, then pour over the
whites, stirring briskly till cool. Spread on cake with a
knife previously dipped in cold water. This iceing will
not crackle when cut, and hardens in a few moments.

	Excellent Sponge Cake.—Four eggs, two cups of sugar,
two cups of flour, one cup of boiling water, two teaspoon-
fuls of yeast powder, and flavor to taste. Method: Beat
eggs and sugar to a froth,add a little at a time of the boiling
water, stirring briskly. Sift and add the first cup of flour,
put the yeast powder in the last cup of flour, sift twice to
thoroughly mix the powder; this makes a thin batter; bake
in a moderate oven. This is a good cake for dyspeptics.
	I have used the above recipes many times, and am
sure they are first class. 					M. C.


