Seasonable Recipes By Lucy Rose Middleton "Cookery means the knowledge of Medea and of Circe and of Helen and of the Queen of Sheba. It means the knowedge of all herbs and fruits and balms and spices, and all that is healing and sweet in the fields, and groves and savory in meats. It means carefulness and inventiveness and willingness and readiness of appliances. It means the economy of your grandmothers and the science of the modern chemist; it means much testing and no wasting, it means English thoroughness and French art and Arabian hospitality; and, in fine, it means that vou are to be a perfectly and always, ladies—loaf givers."—Ruskin. With the change of seasons comes a change of menus. The season for fresh fruits and vegetables is over and we have in their places dried and canned products. It is probably a bit more difficult to make our menus as colorful and attractive as it was during the spring and summer when a wealth of fresh foods could grace our tables daily. Since food is judged first by appearance, all our meals should be planned with a thought of how they will look when placed ion the table. SUGGESTIONS FOR AN OCTOBER DINNER Menu Baked Ham with Sweet Potatoes and Apples. Buttered String Beans. Baking Powder Biscuits. Lettuce Salad. Apricot Fluff. Ice Box Butter Cookies. This oven dinner will serve six. It can be prepared in 40 minutes. All measurements are level. Baked Ham with Sweet Potatoes and Apples Wipe and trim a klice of ham 4 inch thick. Stick about eight whole cloves in it, then place in a baking dish. Par-boil the sweet potatoes about fifteen minutes, peel, then slice in rather thick slices the long way of the potato. Wash, quarter and core the apples. Place them and the sweet potatoes around the ham and cover with one cup of maple syrup. If the baking dish is very large, more syrup may be required. Bake in a medium oven (350 degrees F.) until tender. Baste often. Baking Powder Biscuits 2 cups flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons shortening. 34 to 1 cup milk or half milk and half water. Sift the dry ingredients twice. Work the shortening with the tips of the fingers or a pastry mixer. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife to a soft dough. It is impossible to state the exact amount of liquid owing to the differences of flour. Toss on floured board, pat and roll out lightly one-half inch thick. Shape with biscuit cutter. Place on buttered cookie sheet. Glaze the top with milk. Bake 12-15 minutes in a hot oven (450 degrees F.). Apricot Fluff 2 cups dried apricots. 1/2 cup powdered sugar. ½ cup cream, whipped. 1 cup coconut. Wash the apricots and let them soak in warm water for several hours. Cook, then force through a sieve. Add sugar; fold in cream SEASONABLE RECIPES and 14 cup of coconut. Chill. Sprinkle with 4 cup of coconut. The mixture may be put in sherbet glasses to chill. Ice Box 'Butter Cookies 1 cup butter. 2/3 cup sugar. 2 eggs (whole) or 3 yolks. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 21/2 cups flour. Cream butter, add sugar. Beat eggs thoroughly and add. Stir in flour and flavoring. Shape in two rolls then wrap in wax paper to chill. When thoroughly chilled slice in 4 inch slices. 'Bake in hot oven at 375 degrees. French Dressing 6 tablespoons salad oil. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 537 Y teaspoon sugar. Y, teaspoon salt. ¥% teaspoon paprika, Mix together and shake well. Core the lettuce and let the cold water run through it for a few minutes. Shake water out then wrap in wax paper and put in ice box until crisp. (The French dressing should not be poured over the shredded lettuce until just before it is to be served. String Beans Remove the beans from the can and boil in water with a thin slice of onion for ten minutes. Strain and let dry for a few minutes, then add a lump of butter, salt and pepper. Autumn By Elsie E. Barrett The Autumn is present With colors and tints On all trees and bushes It makes it's imprints. Gay time of the harvest Of fruits and all grains, While ev'ry thing living Is chanting glad strains. The green of the summer Has turned red and gold; All nature is singing "My beauties behold." Notes to WHAT ARE YOU GOING To Do? THE time for the opening of our season's work is drawing near. We hope our officers and members are looking forward with happy anticipation to the joys and benefits it will bring. When Relief Society gets hold of one she can never lose her interest in the great organization. We are especially anxious that those who have not been brought in and who are thus missing the wonderful opportunities of membership may be visited, told of our course of study, and be led to attend. It is regrettable that in nearly every ward there are many women who are missing the educational advantages of the Relief Society organization, and are not getting the joy that active membership brings. Officers should survey their field and study how to get in those who are not affiliated, especially the young women who need what the association can give. REFERENCE READING BECAUSE we do not wish our organizations to be financially burdened in the purchase of books, the General Board has planned that the literary course can be given from the material in the 'Magazine and in the text, "The Delight of Great Books" by Erskine. However, we are sure that most of our class leaders will desire to carefully read in their entirety the books written about. Many have asked for reference reading. Complying with their request, we print herewith a bibliography of books which we are sure our women will enjoy reading. We suggest that our literary class lead the leaders find out how many of these books are in the homes of the members or in the school libraries, or public libraries where there are such, and make use of these copies, so that there will not be a tax on individuals or organizations that cannot at this time afford to purchase the books. Bibliography for Literature Course, "The Delight of Great Books" The Delight of Great Books.... Erskine The Bible Companionable Books... Van Dyke Modern English Books of Power. Le Morte D'Arthur........ Malory The Idylls of the King... Tennyson Fausteenecre -..... Ludwig The Ordeal of Richard Feverel.. A... Meredith Romeo and Juliet..... Shakespeare Mothers and Children.... Canfield Moby Dick.............. Melville Herman Melville....... Mumford Tom Sawyer............4. Twain Huckleberry Finn......... Twain The Celtic Twilight........ Yeats Riders of the Sea.......... Synge Plays for the Irish Theatre.... Lady Gregory Collected Poems......... Dunsany THEOLOGICAL LESSONS HE Theological Lessons for the present and succeeding two years will deal with the Doctrine and Covenants. The chief object is to become familiar with the message and purport of this typically Latterday Saint scripture. The lessons are prepared in topical form, with appropriate subdivisions, well suited NOTES TO to class discussion. Suggestive questions for study and review are presented at the close of each lesson. Numerous references, principally to the Doctrine and Covenants, are given within the body of the work, all of which should be carefully read by the student. We believe that the Doctrine and Covenants can be most advantageously studied by means of the method adopted in this course, since its construction as such that it cannot be easily approached either serially or chronologically. In some lessons, for example, major matters, such as "Vicarious Work for the Dead," form the entire subject of discussion, whereas in other cases various miscellaneous matters are considered. The intention is to cover as far as possible all of the characteristic features. Teachers should THE FIELD 539 encourage their class members to read the entire book. Titles and preview of Social Service Lessons were published in the May number, 1932, page 310. THEOLOGICAL Lessons For 1932-33 1. Nature and Origin of the Revelations. 2. History of the Doctrine and Covenants. 3. Significance and Purport. 4. Vicarious Work for the Dead. 5. Authority to Act in the Name of God. 6. Origin and Translation of the Book of Mormon. 7. Church Organization and Government. 8. Miscellaneous Truths. 9. Miscellaneous Truths.