
Originated by MAYTAG
The Maytag Company originated the Gyrafoam washer action. Other washer manufacturers imitate the idea—thus endorsing the Maytag's superiority.
There is only one Maytag.
Available with gas-built gasoline motor.
Phone for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it.
Deferred payments you'll never miss.
MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO.
Distributors
211 South State
Salt Lake City
Aluminum Washer
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Summer Excursion Fares
Southern Pacific Lines
TO CALIFORNIA POINTS
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS via SAN FRANCISCO $40.00
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $47.10
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH
FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Enjoy the Extra Comforts of More Electric Servants
Our New Combination Rate for household electric service makes it so easy for you to enjoy more use of electric servants in your home.
Cooking, refrigeration, water heating, in addition to the many other home uses of electricity are now available at a cost which you will find surprisingly low.
Phone us. We will be very glad to show you how you may secure the benefits of this new combination rate.
Utah Power & Light Co.
Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Z. C. M. I.
MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
STRONG seams
OVERALLS Are made from finest quality Denim,—guaranteed for quality, fit and service.
SOMETHING DIFFERENT
The Spring-O-All Suspender, no rubber to rot, nothing to wear out.
IN MOUNTAINEER
The Brick Man IS NATIONALLY known as a CHAMPION of BRICK.
Standing always four square for HONEST, SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION and for BEAUTY and QUALITY in all CLAY PRODUCTS.
Your inquiries and business appreciated.
The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Company
319 Kearns Bldg.
Salt Lake City
Phone: Wasatch 951
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS SUMMER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1—New style, ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25
No. 2—Old style, ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton, our standard summer Wgt. $1.25
No. 3—Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.90
No. 4—Ribbed heavy wgt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6—High grade rayon tricosham silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7—Light wgt. new or old style, mercerized silky finish $1.75
No. 8—Ribbed heavy wgt. Unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number $4.25
No. 9—Ribbed med. Wgt. Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number $4.75
No. 10—Ribbed light weight men's and ladies' summer garments, new and old style 75¢
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines in Neat Uniform Bindings
$1.50 per Vol. In cloth with gold title
A Valuable Addition to Your Library.
Send Your Back Volumes Now.
We specialize in binding all Church Magazines, and offer a discount of 10% in lots of ten or more volumes.
The last series of Radio Discourses by B. H. Roberts, bound in dark blue cloth, gold title, for $1.50, makes a valuable book for study and reference. Send us the leaflets for binding.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
208 Light Weight Rib 1.35
32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton Rayon Stripes 1.65
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.25
264 Rayon Silk. Fine Quality 3.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.00
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50
307 Men's New Style, Rayon 2.75
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE PAINT PRODUCTS
During "Clean-up" Time this Spring
Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments.
They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. Lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length 2.35
Long Sleeves and Legs 2.85
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
CUTLER'S
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
Tuesday, September 3 Opening Dates FALL TERM
and Monday, September 9
L. D. S. Business College
Ask for the New Catalog.
L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—It Pays!
To Use Chipped or Cracked Glasses in Your Communion Service is Dangerous
Order a New Supply Now.
We Are Ready to Serve You Promptly.
Deseret Book Company
44 East on South Temple
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
Shoshone Falls, Idaho Frontispiece
The Niagara of the West Glen Perrins 405
Miss Lena M. Phillips (Portrait) 406
The Touch of a Woman's Hand Cora C. Ritchie 407
Great Salt Lake and Its Islands Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen 409
Editorial—Dean Hibbards Three Important Questions 415
The Daughters of Men 416
The Children's Vacation Hour 417
The Desert Mrs. George Q. Rich 418
The Bible: The Inspiration of Mankind Bessie Redding 419
Benediction Mary Anderson 424
What Bird is That? J. H. Paul 425
The Shadows Alberta H. Christensen 429
Withdrawal Announcement 430
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest 431
Through Clouds to Sunshine Sophy Valentine 432
Teach Me Arthur James Bowers 438
Let Martha Rest Sundays Ethel C. Butt 439
Notes from the Field 444
Vacation's Disease Linnie Fisher Robinson 446
Guide Lessons for October 447
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI AUGUST, 1929 NO. 8 SHOSHONE Falls, IDAHO "Niagara of the West” THE NIAGARA OF THE WEST By Glen Perrins Mighty Shoshone Falls, Idaho is a sight one will never forget. To gaze upon this creation of Mother Nature, 212 feet high, the water booming over the precipice in continuous roar, holds one fast in awe The water, answering the call of the sea, is rushing, tumbling,: falling down over the high cliffs in a hurry to get to level territory. Truly worth the visit is the sight of this powerful waterfall, the Niagara of the West, Shoshone Falls.  Miss Lena M. PHILLIPS President Business and Professional Women's Clubs—1928—who touched the 'button and illuminated Shoshone Falls. THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVI AUGUST, 1929 No. 8 The Touch of a Woman's Hand By Cora C. Ritchie At last the great Shoshone Falls at Twin Falls, Idaho, were to be lighted. For days men had planned and studied, and now the necessary money was ready. On May 28, 1928, a big celebration was arranged. The falls, higher than the famous Niagara, were to be illumined, so that by night as by day their beauty and grandeur could be seen in a nature color scheme. They are 212 feet high and across the entire width of the river water plunges in white and downy clouds. The falls are located on the mighty Snake River, five miles east of Twin Falls City. As one nears the molten masses of lava, by the edge of the canyon, the rumble and roar of the falls increases till at high water it is deafening. This night the rocks were covered with thousands of people, old and young. Cars from many States had been seen on the highways leading to the falls. From the level above the falls the first sight of the Snake River, muddy and treacherous, angry and powerful, causes a feeling of fear to grip the soul. Then, as it breaks over the falls, the water takes on a false tone. Muddy swirls are changed to soft billowy white. Still farther the spray breaks up into a mist as dainty as baby-breath flowers and as alluring as the Lorelei. Thousands of people clamber up and down the precipitous edges of cliffs, in every direction. Cars are parked on the canyon rims and on opposite sides of the river. The water, leaving the falls and rolling on, gives. Life to thousands of acres of otherwise barren waste. Meditating, listening, wondering, we gaze far out over all the panoramas. Level streches of water, gorgeous falls, sparkling spray and delightful mists—then the still, deep water so far below that 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one becomes dizzy from looking down. We meditate on God and man; on God the creator and this splendid miracle, just one small item in his vast creation! Or listen to those who exclaim, "How wonderful that man could light up this great spectacle;" or wonder what this mighty Snake River with its molten masses of lava looked like when God planned a change and formed it: What was it like when the impenetrable lava was soft and hot? Or when the crash came, and these vast crevices were opened? What sounds? What shocks? Who saw? What of man? What deep sorrow? What terrors? The answers were given only by the ever-onward rush and roar of the mighty falls—mocking, laughing, sneering, but ever falling, falling, falling. Why, the people have shrunken smaller, insignificant as the busy ants that hurry over the round top of the lava seat. The car lights are as dim as the distant stars. Yes; but man is struggling—uis going on, is imitating the one great Creator. How near will he ever attain? Even now, in order to change darkness to light, man is harnessing part of the vast volume of water for light and power. As nine o'clock approached, excitement ran high. A woman's hand to illuminate that great river! The touch of a finger was to change the face of that dark, fearsome, roaring chasm, into life and beauty beyond description. Miss Lena Phillips of New York, the President of the Business and Professional Women's Club of the United States, was given the privilege of performing this miracle. At a given signal Miss Phillips touched a button. A glow of light breaking over the darkness brought color and beauty indescribable to river, falls, spray, and mists. Darkness turned to day. Void changed to life. The same river, the same falls, spray, mist; but oh! How different. How like the wonders wrought in all life by the touch of a woman's hand! Silence and gloom followed by exclamations of awe. Thousands stood, one mighty "Oh! How grand," was heard mingling with the roar of the mighty Shoshone. The episode was significant of woman's life, her works, her miracles, her absolute control of all life, if she but touches the right spring. I wonder if God did not create the river, the rocks, the falls, the mountains, the sea, the land, then ask woman ever to carry on, to give life, light, and beauty. Just to look at the great Shoshone Falls, suggests that God has never failed. Pray that God's woman never may. Great Salt Lake and Its Islands By Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen The somber islands ride in a sullen sea. Although the white man's knowledge of the Great Salt Lake dates back only a hundred years, the mountain peaks that rise above the surface of this saline sea have already made their own history. The Water of the Lake Most of the islands lack fresh water and are therefore uninhabitable. For the rest, the water of the Great Salt Lake offers the finest bathing in the world. It is so heavy with salt that the human body can float on it like a cork, and it is so dense that it holds the warmth of the sun long after that orb has sunk into its sea burial.: One enterprising matron floated a round dinner table fully set on the buoyant waters and her guests swam up and helped themselves to viands buffet style. While reclining luxuriously on his back, the bather may view the gorgeous sunset, painted with the rugged colors and imbued with the mystery of the North. Nearby is the new Saltair, the modern Moorish pleasure palace, risen, like Venus, new-born, from the sea. Jim Bridger Discovered It Profit is the first thing that lures men into the unknown places, so we find the fur traders in the vanguard of civilization. To Jim Bridger belongs the credit of the discovery of the Great Salt Lake. In fact his description of the saline sea helped earn for him the title of prince of prevaricators. He had found that his stories of Yellowstone Park were not believed, especially when he described pools cool in the bottom and hot on top, so you could catch a fish and cook it on the way out. He was acting as scout for the fur hunters camped on Bear River. They had a rendezvous for their skins in the nearby "Cache" valley. A dispute arose among the men as to the course of the river. Bridger volunteered to settle it as wagers had been posted. He followed the Bear to its mouth where it emptied into the lake, when the immense sheet of water burst upon his view. The scout waded out into the lake and found that it prickled his skin. The only thing that lives in this water is a minute brine shrimp, one of the two things in the world known to have no natural enemies. On the west shore of the lake, Jim Bridger set traps for beaver. New SALTAIR PAVILION AND BATHERS, GREAT SALT LAKE Photo Courtesy Union Pactfic System GREAT SALT LAKE AND ITS ISLANDS 411 When he reported his find, the rest of the trappers sailed down in their boats of skins—Englishmen, Frenchmen, and Americans, in search of pelts. Like the Uite Indians that preceded them, they found the hunting poor. This was in the winter of 1825. Captain Bonneville's Expeditions Captain Bonneville, a young army officer on leave, outfitted several fur-hunting expeditions to this region. He provided them with luxurious equipment. One of these, the Walker party, intended to explore the country, but they found the northwest shore a barren desert. Sorely harassed by Indians, they trekked over the mountains to California. This was in 1832. Bonneville gave his name to the immense fresh water lake which formerly covered the Great basin, of which the Salt Lake is but the shrunken remnant. Fossils of this early time may be found in the cave at Garfield; the old level of the lake may be discerned on the terraces of the mountains. At Garfield the mountains come down to the water's edge. Out in the opalescent sea looms Black Rock, like a medieval castle. On the blue and lavender expanse float the other islands like dim mirages. Terraced up the slopes of the point of the mountain are the Arthur and the Magna plants and the American Smelting and Refining Company, where the copper is extracted from ore that is torn from the mountain at Bingham. Birds of the Salt Lake Gulls, pelicans, herons, and snipe undulate in the water. Except the snipe, their home is on Bird Island. These aquatic fowls nest on this small island, which has neither food nor fresh water. Both of these are brought by the parent birds from the mainland 40 miles away. This is the summer home of the winged colony; for the great white pelicans winter on the Gulf of Mexico and the sea gulls hie to the Pacific Coast. There is a $100 fine for killing a sea gull in Utah because gulls were the savior birds of the pioneers. When the young grain of the settlers was being eaten by vast armies of crickets—bull-headed, blackhumped things, twice as large as a grasshopper—the gulls swept in from the lake and devoured these insects—thus saving the crops. On the Tabernacle grounds a monument has been erected to them—the only statue it is said, ever erected to a bird. A visitor to Bird Island in June thus describes it: We paid particular attention to the nesting habits of the birds, and to the marvelous rookeries similar to those one reads of in the South Seas. When the boat arrived at Bird Island—a small, tapering, brush-covered hill with beaches of gray, wave-worn rocks 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ser tn Fa GR CS Ne tee On Brirp ISLAND, GREAT SALT LAKE Photo Courtesy Union Pacific System or of gray and white sand—innumerable gulls filled the air and covered the rocks; long V-shaped lines of pelicans arose mejestically on steadily beating or motionless wings; great blue herons stood out like picturesque statues from the higher rocks, or slowly rose in graceful flight above our heads. The water was covered with the birds swimming from their rocky coverts; the air tesounded with their shrill cries; in places the sky was obscured by their number. Young pelicans in droves resembling sheep, floundered clumsily over the rocks, trying to reach the water; young herons, barely able to walk or fly, struggled limping from their large willow-built nest, and became entangled in the greasewood. We freed one of these, hopelessly ensnared where it might have perished. Many of the adult gulls, in their comical and needless terror, stood on the rocks with heads thrown back and bills open, uttering long and continuous shrieks, while brownish young of all sizes scrambled over the rocks, injuring themselves in their rush for safety. The Lack of Fresh Water Buffalo Island, the last stand of the almost extinct bison of North America, has sweet water. Some of the islands, really mountain peaks that rise above the sullen sea, are without fresh water, therefore uninhabitable. The scenes in the 'Covered Wagon" in which the buffalo figured, were filmed here. There is an abundance of grass. When the bulls of the herd become too numerous, a buffalo hunt is staged and the butcher shops in the inter-mountain country sell ''buffalo steaks" at this time. Invita- GREAT SALT LAKE AND ITS ISLANDS 413 tions were issued to sportsmen to the "last buffalo hunt" in November, 1926. Among the many stories connected with this island is that of a shipwrecked mariner. As he landed on the desolate side he did not know that it was inhabited. He made a signal of distress of his white shirt, then staggered around until he fell exhausted. Fortunately for him, some herders hunting a depredating coyote came across him lying unconscious among the brush, and rescued him. Fremont Island, named for the intrepid explorer, has a little tragedy of its own. A flock of sheep were left there to forage for themselves. The surface of the lake rose and covered the fresh water springs from which they drank. The poor sheep had pawed all the surrounding earth in a vain search for the lifesustaining fluid. They were all found dead. The Explorations by Fremont John C. Fremont visited the, Great Salt Lake on two of his five expeditions to the Far West. In the fall of 1843, Fremont stood on a peninsula in a terrific storm and looked west at the inland sea. He likened himself to Balboa discovering the Pacific Ocean.: His party, short of provisions, were encamped on the Weber river. (Most of these early voyagers seemed to suffer for want of food and water.) Fremont dispatched seven men to Fort Hall for supplies. Leaving three men in camp, their leader, with four others, including the notorious Kit Carson, dropped down to the mouth of the river in a rubber boat. "Next morning they were out on the lake, fearful every moment lest their air-blown boat should collapse and let them into the saline but beautiful, transparent liquid. At noon they reached one of the low, nearby islands and landed. They found there, washed up by the waves, a dark brown bank, ten or twenty feet in breadth, composed of the skins of worms, about the size of oats, while the rocky cliffs were whitened by incrustations of salt. Ascending to the highest point attainable, they took a surrounding view, and called the place Disappointment Island, because they had failed to find the fertile lands and game hoped for. Then they descended to the edge of the water, constructed lodges out of drift-wood, built fires, and spent the night there, returning next day in a rough sea to their mainland camp." Two years later, in 1845, Fremont again visited this region, camped where Salt Lake City now is, and explored the southern portion of the lake. Stansbury, Gunnison, Lambourne Stansbury Island is named for a railroad surveyor. Captain 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tue Last STAND OF THE BUFFALO Howard Stansbury of the topographical engineers came west in the spring of 1849 to explore the country in order to map out a trans-continental route for a railroad. Beginning with the Great Salt Lake and its islands, he gradually covered the surrounding territory. In a year and a half his observations had extended over an area of five thousand square miles. On leaving he disposed of his wagons and spare implements to local settlers, who in turn provided him with an escort, as a protection against the Indians, on his return to Fort Leavenworth. He fared better than young Gunnison, the astronomer of the expedition, for whom one of the smaller islands is named. His life was one of the sacrifices to the winning of the West. He fell a victim to Indians, who, angered by the abuse of travelers who had passed through, took it out on the next white men they met. Gunnison, in 1853, conducted a survey for a more southern railroad route. He camped on the Sevier, where wood and pasture were abundant. From there he could see the camp of a band of Pah Utes. The savages surprised the Gunnison party when they were at breakfast. The Indians, who had crept up on them, discharged a volley of shots and arrows. Gunnison ran out, calling that he was their friend. He fell, pierced by fifteen arrows. The Utes then fell on the rest of the party. Rescuers found their bodies mutilated, 'but not scalped. The inter-mountain poet, Alfred Lambourne, who died a few years ago, homesteaded on Gunnison Island for two years. He has interpreted the storms of the lake, and described its color vagaries in lyric prose. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - President MKS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -: - - -: - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD -  - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Paper Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Kate M, Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Mart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager: - - - - -: - - - - Louise Y. Rosson Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown LyMAn Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL
VoL. XVI AUGUST, 1929 No. 8 EDITORIAL Dean Hibbard's Three Important Questions Of more than passing interest is the fact that, in this issue of the Magazine, which publishes as its literature lesson a biography of Karl G. Maeser, there appears in the "Outlook" an article entitled "Utopia College: A Prospectus," by Addison Hibbard, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts in the University of North Carolina. In the "Outlook" article the author claims that "three questions most persistently perplex mankind, most uniformly seek solution, and most directly relate to his well-being: From what past does mankind come, what is his duty and purpose in being, and what, throughout his centuries of existence, has his experience led him to think the end of existence, the good life?" Further Mr. Hibbard says, "We realize that to these questions all intelligent energy and thought are untimately directed. And around these three questions our curriculum will be built; the unity for which we shall strive will be the unity of life itself." That is, in the building of "Utopia College," such unity of life will be sought for. Any student who worked with Dr. Karl G. Maeser will 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciate that upon these three subjects he placed chiet emphasis. For this ideal he lighted fires that burned into the souls of his students. He told his graduates that when they went out and engaged in teaching for the Church of Jesus Christ, they should put first and greatest emphasis on these three matters. We do not for an instant imagine that Mr. Hibbard would meet these problems as Karl G. Maeser met them; but it is vital to note that each recognizes the same questions as being of prime importance. Dr. Maeser's interest in man's origin was electrifying, sincere, contagious. His belief in the purpose of life made every thought and effort that did not contribute to the great and glorious purpose, trivial. His faith rendered absurd any suggestion denying man's immortality. He believed implicitly that we shall progress hereafter?that we may become perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. To him the ultimate good was supreme. Dr. Maeser often told his students that a different type of educational institution was developing under the inspiration and blessings of the Lord. His faith in his mission led him to believe that the system of education for which he stood would be unique. Recently, Dr. Edwin D. Starbuck, formerly of Stanford University and at present of the University of Iowa, told the Latter-day Saint people that their Sunday School system more nearly reaches the ideal in its manner of training children religiously than do the Sunday Schools of other denominations. It would not be strange to Latter-day Saints if in the future their educational projects should turn out to be superior, and that they would give the world a type of college that would more nearly approach a "Utopian College" than the institutions fostered by others. The Daughters of Men While there is still interest in the election of Ruth Bryan Owen and Ruth Hanna McCormick, word comes from England of the return to the House of Commons of the daughter of David Lloyd George, also of Nancy Astor, the first woman elected to the British Parliament. The real surprise, however, is the choise of Margaret Bondfield to fill a place in the MacDonald cabinet, as minister of labor. Of interest, too, is the selection of Miss Susan Lawrence, minister of health, in the new British Cabinet. 'One reason, perhaps, why sons have been preferred to EDITORIAL 417 daughters, lies in the fact that a son often succeeds his father in business, or brings to a family the honor of place and office?- a privilege but recently accorded to women. The strides that women have made, both in America and Great Britain, go to show that no father's or mother's hopes need be blasted because of the advent of daughters. The presence of one hundred and forty-five women in the various legislatures of the United States in 1929, and of seven women in Congress, as well as the election of thirteen women to the British Parliament, has a tendency for the moment, to attract attention to the daughters of men. Were the Great Commoner alive, he undoubtedly would feel genuine pride in the election of his daughter to Congress. Were Mark Hanna yet with us, he would be assured that the American people, while recognizing the deserts of the daughter, had not forgotten the father. David Lloyd George, Premier of Great Britain at the time of the Great War, like Woodrow Wilson and Clemenceau, suffered something of an eclipse. Now, he is returned to Parliament with his daughter and his son. He probably is as deeply affected and as keenly grateful for the election of his daughter as for that of his son. The world of politics has its surprises no less than the world of invention. The Children's Vacation Hour Once again the Relief Society puts forth its benevolent hand on behalf of children who would otherwise be denied the benefits of a holiday. The Social Service Department, under the direction of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, director, and Miss Genevieve Thornton, supervisor, has arranged for sixty children to have a vacation in the beautiful country districts of Cache Valley. These children range in age from five to fourteen years, and have been selected because of the need they have for outdoor contacts, It is now several years since the Relief Society began this very fruitful type of social work.. It emphasizes once more the spirit of our age, which says that children must receive consideration?in many instances, the first consideration?because this ever-growing, ever-blossoming, surging civilization of which we are a part can only be pushed forward and sustained by persons of good health, good brains, wholesome impulses, and good training. These are some of the ideals the Relief Society has in bringing out from the corners the child whose life would be denied these pleasures. 418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE These children who are to partake of the wholesome milk, fruit, and vegetables of the farm will be cared for by families in the Benson Stake. This work is being supervised by Mrs. Effie A. Greene, who is president of the Benson Stake Reliet Society. The funds for the outing were raised by Salt Lake stake Relief Societies, cooperating with the General Board. In line with this work, thirty-two children were taken to the Christmas Seal Camp of the Utah Tuberculosis Association near Brighton, where they will spend six weeks enjoying outdoor pleasures and where they will be carefully supervised as to their needs for exercise and food. They have as their chaperones a nurse and two teachers. These children, many of whom are frail and need selected food because they are undernourished, will be under the constant care and guidance of the nurse, Miss Margaret Ford, and the two teachers, Miss Margaret Sorenson and Miss Alouise Nelson. This means that practically 100 children will be made giad and will be beneficiaries of better health because of the vision of the Relief Society and the Utah Tuberculosis Association. The Desert By Mrs. George Q. Rich A wild Palm here And a Cactus there, Scrub Mesquite, A bone white and bare, Sun beating down On sand hot and dry, Not a cloud to be seen In the clear blue sky. A lizard crawls out From its resting place; No chirp of a bird In the whole wide space. Looking as far As the eye can see? Mesquite, wild Palms And the Cactus tree. The Bible: The Inspiration of Mankind By Mrs, Bessie Redding Search the Scriptures We are bidden (John 5:39) to "Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they that testify of me." Here we have the command. We are not left in doubt. The reason is plainly stated. By reading the Scriptures: (1) we obey the command of authority; (2) we are shown the way that leads to eternal life; (3) we gain individual testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ. I shall answer the question, what is the Bible? From four standpoints: I. The Bible is the word of God. II. It is the greatest book of literature. III. It is the source of inspiration for writers, poets, preachers. IV. It is the only book to which Christians have turned for comfort, wisdom and guidance. The Word of God Moses wrote the law and gave it to the sons of Levi, commanding them to fear God and to obey the commandments written in the Ark of the Covenant. In Deuteronomy 17, 18, 20, the Priests of Levi are again commanded to keep the commandments of that book. The book of Mormon, in First Nephi, states that the Bible is of divine origin. Tradition gives evidence of the divinity of the Bible. It is our religious heritage handed down from Father Adam, from one generation to another. We Latter-day Saints believe in the Bible. We take it literally as a divine record of God's dealing with his people. As the firmaments declare the handiwork of God, so the Bible declares itself to be his word. The Book of Literature That the Bible is the greatest book of literature, the most able literary scholars concede. Not even Shakespeare, the literary genius of the ages, could surpass the Bible in real art. No masterpiece, however great, has excelled the Bible in grace, in stateliness, in simplicity of construction. Even Ruskin, whose well poised diction and well balanced sentences are the 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE admiration of the shrewdest critic, could not surpass the Bible in literary excellence. In this remarkable volume we find the best examples of the four types of English composition?description, narration, exposition, and argumentation. No other descriptions are more graphic, more illuminated, than some of the scenes in the Bible. Here one may visit, with the mind's eye, the Garden of Eden, home of our first parents; or look over the consecrated City of Enoch, or view the Egyptian courts, the home of the pharaohs; or climb up Mt. Sinai; where Moses received the Ten Commandments; or step over to Mt. Ararat, where Noah's Ark landed; or he may view the waters of the Red Sea divided for the children of Israel to come safely from their Egyptian bondage; or behold the sun stand still for Joshua to conquer the enemy?to say nothing of visiting the Holy Land and looking upon the sacred ground whereon the Savior trod, His birthplace and other scenes clear to the hearts of Christians. For one brief moment we shall tarry at the Garden of Gethsemane and view the scene recorded by Luke. Here we stand aweinspired, with abated breath. We behold the Savyior kneeling?one God praying to another?the sublimest prayer ever uttered on earth. The substance of that magnificent appeal, which transcends anything else ever recorded was, "Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done." The Most Vivid Pictures Then comes the greatest scene ever described in this world's drama. No word in any language is adequate to portray its full significance. The stone is rolled away! Christ the Lord is risen! The glorious Resurrection Day! Here we may behold with Mary Magdalene and the Apostles, our Lord and Master who has broken the bonds of death. These precious scenes, these splendid descriptions, are ours if we read the Scriptures. There are no other narratives so thrilling as those contained in the Bible. The fascinating love story of Ruth and her devotion to her mother-in-law; the patriotism of Esther: the womanliness of Vashti; the loyalty of Samuel and David; the beauty and spirituality of Rebecca; the long and persistent wooing of Jacob for the lovely Rachel, mother of Joseph, and the stoties of heroisrn and achievement of other courageous characters. The Best of Literary Arts The best example we have of exposition is found in the parables and other teachings of the Savior and of the Apostles, THE BIBLE: THE INSPIRATION OF MANKIND 421 and of former leaders. Nowhere is there a better code of ethics than that given by Moses in the Ten Commandments. Infidels, atheists, and other non-conformists concede this. In all literature there is no better example of argumentation than that of Paul's defense before Agrippa. As another example of argumentation, consider Reuben's plea for the return of his young brother Benjamin from the Egyptian court to the grief stricken father, Jacob. The Inspiration of Poets Dante, the Italian scholar, could not have written his "Divine Comedy" had he not been a student of the Bible. Milton chose Isaiah's Fall of Lucifer for the theme of his immortal epic, "Paradise Lost." Shakespeare's remarkable versatility is directly traceable to his knowledge of Bible literature. It is natural to suppose that Wordsworth's knowledge of the Scriptures led him to write of our pre-existent state. From his ''Intimations of Immortality" we have this thought: "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The soul that rises with us?our life's star? Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar. Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home." Plato could not have contributed to society his treatise on the "Immortality of the Soul" had he not been conversant with Bible literature. The Guide of Patriots The influence of the Bible is evident in the life and works ot Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence, containing these memorable words: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that. They are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." We see the influence of the Bible in the life and writings of Washington. Lincoln, the great emancipator, was a living example of a life towering in splendor, from faith in the Bible as the divine word of God. The Bible was the source of inspiration, the pillar of 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strength to President Wilson as he piloted this nation safely through one of the most perilous periods in its history. Many of his writings are masterpieces, partly because of his undaunted faith in the Bible as God's word. The Creator of World-Visions Most of the poetry worthy of survival has been inspired and fashioned from the lofty sentiments recorded in Holy Writ. In this age of economic strife and rapidly changing social order, when many of life's standards are measured by the dollar mark, our poets are called dreamers. The work-aday, practical world would thus stigmatize the poet; but are not all the world's achievers dreamers? Architects, sculptors, prophets, sages?all are dreamers. Poets are prophets, getting their inspiration from the word of God. Tennyson was inspired to see the vision written in Locksley Hall, in 1848. He says: "For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see, Saw a vision of the world and all the wonders that would be; Saw the heavens filled with commerce, argosies of magic sails, Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales. Till the war drums throbbed no longer and the battle flags were furled In the parliament of man, the federation of the world, Here the common sense of most, shall hold a fretful realm in awe, And the kindly earth shall slumber lapt in universal law." Prophets of old had seen this vision. Joseph the Seer viewed it; the city of Enoch no doubt lived it. And do not we Latter-day Saints believe there will be a time of world-peace, a millenium? The poet Tennyson saw our time, and even farther into the future when the earth will receive its paradisaical glory and will enter into its rest?its Sabbath?"lapt in universal Jaw." This sublime thought, clothed in poetic language, symbolizes a truth found in the Bible.. The Prompter of Poets Orson F. Whitney tells us that the Savior was our greatest poet, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is one vast poem from beginning to end. As far back as Pope, poets have used this thought from the Bible: "O Death, where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy victory?" THE BIBLE: THE INSPIRATION OF MANKIND 423 Longfellow's faith in the Bible was beautiful. His poems breathe his trust in the hereafter. Note these words from his "Resignation." "There is no Death, What seems so is transition." Tennyson was inspired to create such sentiment as is found in his touching lyric, "Crossing the Bar." Whittier, the Quaker poet, was a constant reader of the Bible; we see the influence of this Book in his poetry: "Life is ever Lord of death, and love shall never lose its own." Poets in our Church have voiced some of the loftiest sentiment from the Bible. The poem "Elias" made Orson F. Whitney famous; and Eliza R. Snow's hymn,"O My Father", has enshrined her name among the immortals. It is a beautiful picture of Bible teachings past, present, and future. The Guide of Seekers After God Christianity was deprived of the Priesthood for centuries, but the Bible still proved such an anchor of Christendom throughout the Dark Ages that the accomplishments were wonderful. They builded better than they knew. Nations, kingdoms, principalities, came and went: What gave them such impetus, such stimuli? Their implicit faith in the Bible, which sufficed to bring humanity through a long period of darkness. An illustrious example is seen in the life of the late William Jennings Bryan, his profound studies of the Bible accounting for his own clean life and the wholesome influence he exerted on the lives of thousands. Henry Van Dyke, a Bible student whose writings are inspiring and wholesome, puts his philosophy into these lines: "Four things a man must learn to do If he would keep his record true: To think without confusion clearly, To love his fellowmen sincerely, To act with honest motives purely, To trust in God and heaven securely." Where is there another book that has brought comfort to the grief-stricken, wisdom to the searcher after truth, or spiritual guidance to the masses? "Oh, what sweet joy this sentence gives: I know that my Redeemer lives." Who cannot be wise if he hearken to the Psalms, the Songs of Solomon, the Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes? "Wisdom 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom; but with all thy getting, get understanding." Even he who denies the existence of God, when facing imminent danger or death, turns to the Bible. Criminals, with a vain attempt at death-bed repentance, call for the Bible. If there had been no Bible, where could the boy Joseph have found inspiration to prompt him to seek the Lord in prayer? Where did he get the inspiration that sent him to his knees before his God? He read James, first chapter, fifth verse: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." So with implicit faith, the faith of a child, the boy asked, and "God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not," gave freely; and we are beneficiaries of that gift. Benediction By Mary Anderson Methinks the loveliest hour of all Is the magic hour when twilight falls. Life's petty cares are all effaced; The world stands still a little space, Receiving benediction. The sunset sky with rose is flushed, The feathered minstrel's song is hushed, And flowers in their garden beds Their petals fold and droop their heads, Receiving benediction. And little children, ere repose Shall over-tired, white eyelids close, All kneel beside a mother's chair, And for their loved ones ask, in prayer, A Father's benediction. May we, when our last sunset glows, Before we seek a last repose, Look back upon a life so spent That we may ask, with confidence, A final benediction. What Bird is That? How to Identify at Sight the Birds to be Seen This Month near the Mouth of any Western Canyon. By J. H. Paul, University of Utah "What bird is that?' Of the questions asked by members of hiking or camping parties in the West, this seems the most frequent, especially by strangers. For in the East, most people know the birds. The East is well wooded, and the birds, secure in hiding places among the foliage, are not compelled, as Western species are, to keep at safe distances. Our lack of vegetation, the rarefied air that renders the birds more clearly visible at long range, the greater watchfulness that the perils of open or desert-like regions require because of the more intense struggle for life here, added to the fact that Western birds, not yet well acquainted with man, have learned both to fear and avoid him?all these conditions cause our birds to be more watchful and retiring than Eastern species. Hence, to study our birds, a field glass is necessary and the aid of a nature guide desirable. Bird study pays well in new knowledge and rare enjoyment, as well as in the prestige among her children and other young people that bird knowledge gives to mothers. Gul Leaders at Lakota A few weeks ago a large party?leaders of Mutual girls in Bear Lake stake?met at Lakota, the Mutual home, for a nature hike. To the shore of the lake near Garden City they came from all over the county, one group after another, till some forty people had arrived?young ladies, many mothers, and a few grandmothers. The leader was Mrs. Welker. Her husband, Elder Roy A. Welker, president of the stake, Elder E. M. Pugmire, and other men were present, not merely as aids and advisers, but as enthusiastic investigators of nature. By their watchfulness, attention, business-like attitude, and sensible questions on the topic in hand, this fine group first aroused, then constantly deepened, the appreciation of the nature guide.: Siskin, Goldfinch, Bluebird The weather was just right?cool, with a little rain and a few flakes of snow, making coats necessary as the party started up the canyon that begins within a stone's throw from the 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mutual building; but a pine siskin, alighting on a wire near the home, began his long, twittering melody, detaining every one to get a look at the dainty little singer in russet brown. There this urchin of the air lingered under inspection, as six pairs of field glasses were handed round. Singing away, he kept on till his cousin the goldfinch, brilliant yellow with black evening suit besides, floated near, displaying his golden form to fine advantage. He did not sing, the backward season no doubt discouraging him, though in ordinary Junes he is singing brilliantly. A pair of bluebirds, gliding near, flitted from post to post. Posing with dignified grace, they gave us to understand that while they live among us they are not of us, but belong to a superior race. The male was deep blue, the female grayish blue. They did not sing, but swept about us in the flowing curves made only by the strongest, easiest fliers. After thus greeting our party with a few pleasant "churrs," they circled higher and left for their chosen haunts, the nearby hills. Swallows: the Four Kinds Far overhead swallows, floating like specks in the sky, presently came near. One was seen to have the long, twoforked tail; it was the barn swallow, the two plumes of the long tail being the readiest mark of identification. And there, scarcely a rod from our heads, in the gable of the house, was the nest, which, after endless aerial evolutions, they approached, faintly twittering. "Note the swallows with the white breasts," advised the Guide. "Those that show also a tuft of white on each side ot the tail are the Northern violet-green swallows, the handsomest of American species, being parrot-green and violet above." Observers soon made out the white tail-indicators, learning for the first time that they had long known the handsome creature, but had never before looked at it closely. The other swallows with white underparts, the Guide explained, "are tree swallows, which delight to fly just above the water surface. They are glossy blue above and lack the white patches always shown by the violet-greens at the base of the tail. "Those swallows with whitish breasts crossed by a dark, sooty band are sand martens, or bank swallows," the Guide explained; "and with them is another species just like them but without the conspicuous dark cloud on the breast. The latter are called rough-winged swallows. Both build their nests in holes, which they dig in the banks of streams or chasms." WHAT BIRD IS THAT? 427 "That swallow in reddish brown, like the barn swallow but without the long tail feathers of the latter, is the cliff or eave swallow?the species that builds nests of little halls of mud picked up in wet places and fastened to cliffs or under the eaves of houses." Before the advent of the English sparrow, every town in America had its colonies of eave swallows. The imported sparrow has driven them away?one of the reasons why the sparrow should be destroyed (but only by scientific methods, in winter). Purple martens, large, dark, bluish swallows, the Guide added, "are to be found in the mountains, but are uncommon." So great has been the diminution of their numbers in the last thirty years that few localities now have swallows; and in the few places that still have them, the entire group is butt rarely represented. Warbler, Song Sparrow, Vireo Then began the slow saunter up the wooded canyon, down which comes a large stream of clear, cold water. "Tsweet, tsweet, tsee." sang the yellow warbler from the trees?the only one of our birds that is yellow all over. The belted kingfisher sounded his rattle along the stream. He is crested, big-billed and bluish, brown and white. He kept out of sight, but was seen next morning by those who were "up betimes." Song sparrows sang delightfully their "Maids, maids, maids, hang on your teakettle?ettle?ettle," as Thoreau translates their tinkling melodies. Brown spots on the ashy breast readily identify them. Then the vireos?ever heard but never seen?how they made us long to get a glimpse of them! Like fairy elves they sing continuously from the tree tops, saying always, "A warbling vireo singing! A warbling vireo singing!"" "Well, we know you're a warbling vireo singing," exclaimed one of the party; "but where are you hiding, you dainty bit of music?" We sought him in vain, but we found him not. At last we all gave up and went on?all but one. The President's blood was up. Determined to find the vireo, he loitered till, to his unbounded satisfaction, he viewed the tiny bit of gre2n and gray perched and singing cheerily amid the leaves of the tall lance-leaf cottonwood. Next day, however, on the return from the Lake, the entire company found the vireo; for it sang repeatedly from the same tree till at last we located it, on its nest, singing as it brooded there. To sing on the nest is ja way of the vireo and of the black-headed grosbeak, whose song we heard from afar, 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dove, Bunting, Marsh Hawk Mourning doves went by in pairs, on whistling wings, or cooed from tree and hillside; the songs of robins were incessant and rather melodious; the little lazuli buntings sang througn the trees, the company trying to distinguish their notes from those of the yellow warblers; but it was next day before buntings were observed, beautiful in their sextet of colors? blue, huff, white, black, brown, gray. Marsh hawks soared above mountain and valley, and a Cooper or real chicken hawk swept past. Magpies did their bit with a few clattering cries, as did also, from a distance, a long-crested jay, which, however, was not observed. We have seven jays, none of them being the blue jay. Pee Wee, Tanager, Towhee, Chickadee Wood pewees, calling their name, "pee-wee," flitted about the high tree tops. Returning always to the same perch after picking up a flying insect in the air. Tanagers, gorgeous in lemon yellow, black, and crimson, were observed on the second hike. Arctic towhees sang to us, though we saw none of them; they kept to the ground among the bushes, scratching for an honest living, as is their wont. They are 9 inches long, and brown, black and white. Long-tailed chickadees were there, busily engaged in saving the trees. Clinging underneath the boughs and calling their names, also giving the long whistle, "Phae-dee-dee," little flocks, they flitted quickly in among the boughs. Blackbirds, Pelican, Sandpiper, Kulldeer Next morning, in the cool air and the glow of the sun rising through white clouds, we went out before breakfast' and walked along the shore, which was alive with bird life. Swaying and singing on bending stems were three species of blackbird?the redwing, the yellowhead, and the all-black Brewer, blue-glossed and white-eyed. All three species were frequent among the reeds and rushes or flying overhead, intently busy at finding insect food for their young. The fourth, the cowbird, smaller and with a brown head, we did not see. Here again swallows abounded; and out in the water a line of stately pelicans were seen fishing to fill their stomachs (not their pouches) with fish to be carried to Bird Island in the Great Salt Lake?the food preferred by their unfledged flocks. Spotted sandpipers flew about, alighting on rocks and sandbars, then teetering and bowing in comical fashion, as they called out "Peet-weet" and explored the shallows for their WHAT BIRD IS THAT? 429 insect food. Killdeers filled the air with their cries; and we all but stepped on a killdeer nest?a mere depression in the earth, lined with a few bits of grass and containing three large, blotched eggs, the narrow ends pointing inwards. Two days later, when the Boy Scout leaders also found this nest and three others right near it, each contained four eggs, the usual number in the clutch. The Larger Shorebiwrds Out in the lake, an occasional great blue heron could be seen standing in the shallow water near shore, or a bittern would wing slowly over the water surface. A few willets flew past one party, calling out, "Pill-will-willet;" and birds that may have been avocets and glossy ibis were seen in the distance. Snowy herons were observed far out on the water; and the writer learned of the marvelous colonies of water and shore birds breeding on Mud Island in the northern part of the lake. But had no time to visit them. The Shadows By Alberta H. Christensen I like shadows; shadows that mock the heat Of August's noon And lure the weary traveler to sleep. All too soon The dusk of evening chases them away. I like the playful, transient shadowlets Capricious breeze Forms on the grass where sunrays slip Between the leaves. But sweeter far the moonlit images, Too frail to last, Like memories that haunt Or bless the past. WITHDRAWAL ANNOUNCEMENT Since the announcement of the contest, offering prizes in drama and in opera, published in the July issue of the Magazine, circumstances have arisen which make it advisable for the General Board of the Relief Society to withdraw the offer made. As a result the announcement in the July Magazine becomes void. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Announcement, 1929 This memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. 2.The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used.; 4, Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that "tt has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Non de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. Persons who have received both the first and the second prize must wait three years before they are again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 9. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15, 1929, The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Editor, Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15, Through Clouds to Sunshine By Sophy Valentine One evening in May, when twilight was falling over the landscape, Ellen Saunders stood by the gate that separated her little world from the dug-way and what lay beyond it. In front of her streched the valley with its patchwork of wheat and corn fields; newly planted tomato rows; acres of sugar beets, thick and thrifty, ready to be thinned; here and there a brown gray bit of fallow and a corner patch of potatoes. Farther away, showing darkly green against the evening sky, were waving peach and cherry orchards. Close behind her rose the eternal granite wall of Rockies in their dark, mysterious majesty. Still closer was the ravine, filled with rocks and boulders, and then the sagebrush-covered stretch, all inclosed in her own little ten-acre farm. To the west lay her five-acre piece of lucern land, with its sweet-scented blossoms softly swaying in the evening breeze. Over it, as far as the eye could see, the afterglow painted the sky a thousand beautiful tints. And to the east!?to the east lay what had been Ellen's pride and prize possession, her one-acre strawberry patch. Have you ever owned a strawberry patch? One from which you have hauled every rock on a wheelbarrow, plowed every inch with an old worn-out plow and a ditto old nag; harrowed it with a borrowed harrow because you could not afford to own one yourself? And then, at last, set out in leng even rows your young healthy plants, and tenderly tended, hoed, and watered them, month after month in the season thereof, and finally picked the luscious fruit ready for the market? If you haven't, Ellen would tell you that you have missed half your life. But Ellen's face is drawn and worried; her eyes are eagerly, anxiously scouting far along the road toward the town, and her ears are atune to every sound that rises on the still air. She is aroused by a meadowlark, who sends his happy notes skyward. She starts, turns, and with heavy masculine tread goes to shut up her chickens. On the way back to her observation post, she passes the little adobe house, with its creeping vines, and walks slowly, reluctantly, over to the berry patch. There she stops and, with folded arms and grief-filled eyes, contemplates, as it were, every well-rounded hill and vine, now heavy with buds and blossoms. THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 433 A sob-like sigh escapes from the overloaded heart and she finally tears herself away and walks toward the gate. From thrifty old habit she picks up a stone in her path, weighs it in her hand undecidedly; a malicious gleam shoots into her eyes and with a swift, strong stroke she hurls it into the berry patch. With rising anger she searches the ground for another; and then, as if ashamed, hesitates and drops down on a nearby tree stump, where she buries her face in her hands, resting elbows on knees, and sobs out her anger and grief. After a little the storm has spent itself and she dries her tears with the old, rough string apron. Night is settling over the valley. Mysterious shadows come out. Down from the foothills, where he daily finds his food, comes old Buck, stops 'at the stable door a while, and then shuffles awkwardly over to the gate, where his mistress is again at her post. He, too, seems sorrow-laden, or perhaps it is just old age that weighs him down. He noses about her elbow; and, absently, Ellen picks up the dragging halter-rope and leads him to the stable, where already Mirandy lies chewing her cud in stupid contentment. Then she takes up her waiting and watching once more. Finally there's a familiar sound in the distance?halting footsteps. Tom, at last. Tom is her 18-year old son, the apple of her eye, the pivot on which her universe turns. But Tom is a cripple and a weakling; he has a "bad hip," left him from a protracted case of scarlet fever when he was four years old. Ellen goes hurriedly out to meet him. With an effort she endeavors to keep her voice natural. "What makes you so late, Tom?" "Oh, we had some trouble; Al's Liz went on the blink and we had to hoof it most of the way home. We left the old bug at Pete's store, so you see we had quite a tramp of it." "And?and?" "Yes, Ma, its just as we've known all along?the survey was bunk and it was no use hoping that the papers would show anything different. We'll have to look for our land up in the foothills; among the boulders and sagebrush. You knew it all before, Ma; the berry patch is his?its no use whining." Yes, Ellen knew. It had been explained to her, in technical terms, time and again, that there had been a wrong survey made and that when she had bought the ten-acre farm eight years ago, the former owner had sold it to her in good faith, no one suspecting any trouble till the previous fall. Then her neighbor on the east, Fred Bowen, had taken it into his head to have his farm surveyed and it was discovered that his land took in two acres of what Ellen supposed was hers, including 434 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her precious berry patch. Her own plot of ground took in only the ravine and two acres of sagebrush-covered ground stretching above that. It had come as an awful blow when it was first made known to her, and Ellen refused to believe it. But the county surveyor had been out and it was all certified; today the papers had been handed to Tom, that plat so and so, covering the ravine and two acres above it, together with five acres of lucern land, etc., belonged to Mrs. Ellen Saunders. Mother and son went into the house. With shaking hands Ellen brought down the kerosene lamp from its shelf. Lighting it she set out Tom's supper of bread and milk on the oii cloth covered table, in silence. Tom ate his supper, also in silence, while his mother studied the papers. Off and on a vengeful expletive escaped her. At length she folded the papers with a deep sigh and rose to her feet. She rested both toil-hardened hands on the table and stared stonily into vacancy. "There ain't no justice and there ain't no kind God, Tom," she said at length. "I know its tough, Ma! It seems a shame you should lose out. But, I dunno?maybe it'll come out all right." "How can it come out right, when its all wrong, you loony boy!" she snapped. Tom had finished his supper; pushing the dish away, and leaning his elbow on the table, he cleared his throat once or twice. "Well," he began, "I been thinking a whole lot lately, since all this crazy business begun; and I've been looking at the dirt above the gully; its good stuff. And I'm going to clear it?grub out the stage and haul off the rocks." Ellen turned in amazement. "You?" incredulously. "Yes, me! I've tinkered around doing nothing long enough. And maybe we've got just what was coming to us?? me for being so no-account and you for humoring me." He looked accusingly at his mother. "Well! Trouble never comes single-handed, I've hearn! You know you ain't able to do it with yer lame leg and?" "Yeah, I've heard that tommy-rot so often; but I'm going to try; that's all." Ellen got but little sleep that night; she lay tossing and thinking. She knew now that there was no use hoping any more. The bottom seemed to have dropped out of everything. Her years of hard work had come to nothing. She couldn't do it all over again, she was well on the other side of fifty. Tom's talk of clearing the ground above the gully was all bunk; he THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 435 hadn't the strength, poor kid; he might be willing enough. Talk about a kind Providence! Huh! Hadn't she had her share of troubles? Widowed since Tom was a baby, and Tom, her only child, a cripple! No, they needn't come to her and talk. The Relief Society teachers came and tried to comfort her, offered what help was in their power. Ellen wanted no help from them. They tried to make her feel that all would work out for her good. She snorted. If there was justice in anything, she would like to be shown; they need not waste their sympathy on her; she wanted none of it. The summer passed. In the pride and hardness of her heart, Ellen refused to pick the berries when they ripened, as ber neighbor urged her to do. She flung in his teeth that since he had stolen her land, he could have it all. Fred Bowen was a fair-minded man, who was willing to deal justly with her. But Ellen spurned his offers. He had his own children pick her berries, sold them, and keeping out only the price paid to the pickers, he paid the money to Tom, who gladly received it and put it in the bank. For fear of meeting her obnoxious neighbors, Ellen ceased going to her meetings and retired into her own hard shell, growing more bitter as time went on. Tom was as good as his word. He worked late and early having many a hard tussle with the stubborn sagebrush and the heavy rocks. In the beginning, he nearly collapsed and had to lie down often, flat on the ground, and groan and pant, almost shedding tears of exhaustion. He never complained. His mother saw but made no comment. The boy would likely work himself to death. Where was the difference? Why should not her only bit of comfort be taken from her? Neighbor Bowen came over and cut Tom's lucern and Tom was more and more taking the responsibility of the little farm. Ellen wondered but said "nothing. His appetite increased amazingly and he grew brown as an Indian. Fall came; the taxes were paid, and Tom and old Buck brought down the winter's supply of wood from the mountains. He had cleared nearly an acre of ground single-handed. A new light had come into his eyes; he was growing taller and broader. Ellen grimly suppressed a smile the day she saw him lift the old plow into the wagon. "He couldn't have done that last spring," she mused. They had a couple of favorable fall months with plenty of moisture and warm weather. Tom plowed the ground he had cleared. It was hard work; there were lots of deep-rooted stumps and he shook his head many times as he wiped the perspiration from his face and neck. 436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tom and the neighbor had many friendly consultations over the fence. The fence had been moved. Ellen saw this friendly intercourse and objected strenuously. "What you havin' all them long confabs with that land thief for?" she wanted to know. "I don't like it and I want you to stop it!" "Yes, but I ain't going to, and he ain't no land-thief. The land's his." "Well, for the lan' sakes!" Tom dared to defy her. Ellen kept silent from the sheer amazement that stirred so peculiarly within her. Tom had grown up. One day, about the middle of January, Tom had gone over to the neighbor's and was gone a long time. Ellen couldn't imagine what was in the wind. After a while he came back bearing a bushel basket tightly covered. He came in flushed and smiling. "Do you want to see something pretty, Ma? Then come out."' Ellen eyed the basket apprehensively and with disfavor. Tom uncovered it and showed three fine young turkeys, two hens and a gobbler. Ellen knew the neighbors kept turkeys and had often wished she could get a start. "Well, what you goin' to do with them?" bruskly. "Going to raise turkeys, and this is the start. Fred Bowen's made me a present of 'em; they're worth a good biti of money. There's money in turkeys, and up here among the boulders under the mountains is just the place for them. They'll roost in the old poplars summer and winter and they can almost find their own feed all summer; in the fall, of course, is the time it'll take something to fatten 'em up for the holidays." "Oh, I see; the old rascal knows he's done wrong and now he's going to try to make up for it," she blurted wrathfully; "but I won't have 'em on my place, them nor nothin' of hisn's." She strode away in anger; but Tom took no notice. They had what the old settlers called an open winter that year, and Tom kept busy, digging post holes for a fence around the land he had cleared. He had bargained for a lot of cedar posts and in the spring he hoped to be able to get the wire. Off and on of an evening he would disappear without saying where he was going, but Ellen had her suspicions and sat nursing her resentment till his return. In February the turkeys began to lay. Ellen began to take an interest. She turned the big, fine eggs daily till the latter part of March, when both turkey hens were set on 20 eggs each. In due time they came off with 16 and 18 chicks respectively. Ellen's interest grew. THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 437 Spring came early that year. Tom plowed and harrowed the land he had cleared, and his mother helped him set out the young strawberry plants from her own old patch. In eatly July the turkey hens set again and came off with a brood of 37 between them. Ellen's old chicken coop had been thoroughly disinfected and her chickens disposed of. They seemed to have good success with their turkeys. The early birds were sold at Thanksgiving; the later ones at Christmas time. My, what busy times! They sold about 55 altogether, at an average of $4 a piece; kept some, of course, for the next year's crop. Another winter, which was long and rather cold; but Tom kept busy every day, tending the turkeys, hauling rock, when that was possible, for a coop of bigger dimensions. Evenings found him busy doing Church work; he was seldom at home, but his mother had ceased to harbor any resentment about it. Seeing, perhaps, the futility of objecting further. Spring came again?came with a bound and a wealth of promises for the inmates of the little adobe house. This year they would be able to harvest quite a crop of berries. Tom had bought a new horse and was contemplating getting a new wagon. The turkey business was growing. Ellen marveled at Tom. Was this the listless weakling she, like a silly old hen, had clucked to all these years? He had grown in height, in breadth; the limp was scarecly noticeable. The face too, once so thin, had grown strong. He looked self-reliant and every inch a man. One Sunday afternoon in late September Ellen, seated once more on the old tree stump, viewed with inward pride her domain?Tom's farm she called it. Over to the east, near the old berry patch, which now laid in rows of sugar beets, Tom had cleared a piece of ground and was laying the foundation of what he called their new house. But Ellen nodded her head significantly. Nobody needed to tell her that she was ever going to live in that. Not she! She could see through a millstone as far as most people. It wasn't for nothing that he and Bertha Bowen rambled the side hills in the twilight. But then, what of it? She wouldn't leave her little old house any way, and maybe it'd be all right. She "guessed them Bowen people was a pretty fine family." How she hated to admit it. A meadowlark sent up his glad song to heaven. Ellen looked up. The beautiful, fleecy clouds were tinted pink by the fiery afterglow in the west. How delicate and unfathomable they seemed as she gazed at them drifting slowly over behind the mountains, where they took on more somber colors. Just then came the strains from Tom's old accordian and a 438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE minute later his voice rose in accompaniment to an old favorite tune of Ellen's. Tom played but indifferently and couldn't sing at all, as he himself would tell you; but the pleasing sound that floated out on the early evening air was like heavenly music in Ellen's ears, as the last bit of ice that had coated her heart melted away in warm tears flowing down furrowed old cheeks. She had to whisper to herself, "Yes, there is a good. Kind Father up there." Teach Me By Arthur James Bowers O God of the cold, gray dawning, O God of the wide, green sea, Teach me the language of nature; Teach this to me? The silence of sleeping waters, The hush of the starry skies, The voice of the dewy morning, As night birds cry. The radiant sun at noon-day, The waning moon of the night, The stars of a velvet darkness When they are bright. Waves as they break on the shoreline, Trees as they whine in a gale, Birds as they sing in an early dawn When skies are pale. The thundering roar of a cataract, The cry of a deer that is "done," And whimpering blasts of downy snow When winter's come. O God of the painted sunsets, O God of the silent moon, Teach me their songs, their voices, Teach me their tune. Let Martha Rest Sundays By Ethel C. Butt When the icicles are hanging from the eaves and the family come shivering in with red noses and cold-whipped appetites, is the time for steaming hot roasts, puddings, and spicy foods. But in August let us have something cold or quickly cooked for Sunday dinner; something with plenty of fruits and vegetables. What a relief it is to mother to feel free to don her Sunday best, and march to Sunday School with the children, knowing that in record time she can place a satisfying meal before her family. Glance over the menus given below. Notice that they give a variety of food, yet with the exception of the first dinner, most of the food may be prepared on Saturday. Dinner No. I Broiled chicken New potatoes in parsley and butter Baby beets Creamed peas Raspberries and cream Wafers Dinner No. IT Veal loaf with peas Currant jelly Creamed new potatoes String bean salad Orange sherbet Oatmeal cookies Dinner No. III Cold sliced lamb Chili sauce Corn on the cob Sliced tomato salad with mayonnaise Apricot cream Sponge cake Dinner No. IV Salmon in mould Broiled tomatoes Creamed carrots Lettuce and cucumber salad Peach shortcake For Dinner No. I, the chicken should be cleaned on Saturday and placed on ice. Cook the beets and cover with a syrup made by adding 1 tablespoon sugar and 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice to 1 cup of water. The peas may be shelled, washed, dried, and put in a cold place, though many prefer to shell them the day they are used. Sunday morning, peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water. Wash and mince the parsley, and cover with cold, wet 440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cloth. Look over and wash raspberries. In forty minutes after you return from Sunday School, your family can be eating dinner; for all that remains to be done is to broil the chicken for 20 or 30 minutes, (depending on its age), to cook the potatoes, and make white sauce to combine with the cooked peas. Dinner No. IT can be almost all prepared on Saturday. Make the salad dressing and the veal loaf. Cook the string beans. Wash, separate, and wrap the lettuce with a wet cloth, ready for the salad. The syrup for the sherbet is really better if it stands over night. Sunday morning, mix the chilled cream and fruit juice for the sherbet and freeze immediately, using 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. Mix the beans with the salad dressing. Peel potatoes and let them stand in cold water. The preparations just before dinner are simple. While the potatoes are cooking, the white sauce is made, and the salad arranged on the lettuce leaves. In like manner, Dinner No. III may mostly be made ready on Saturday. The lamb is roasted, the mayonnaise dressing and sponge cake made, and the foundation for the apricot cream prepared. The lettuce, corn, and tomatoes may be cleaned and made ready Sunday morning. Mixing and freezing the apricot cream is usually a Sunday morning job, unless the freezer is very well packed and a cold storage place is at hand. The final preparations for this meal need not be longer than is required to cook the corn, since all the other work except setting the table, is arranging the salad and slicing the lamb. The Saturday work for Dinner No. IV consists of preparing the salmon in the mold and making the cake for the peach shortcake. Sponge cake or regular butter cake may be used for this. Sunday morning, the carrots should be prepared for cooking, and the lettuce and tomatoes washed. While the carrots and tomatoes are cooking, the white sauce should be made, the salad arranged, the peaches peeled, and the cream whipped for the shortcake. Although most housewives know how to cook the dishes included in the above menus, the following recipes may help: Veal Loaf Separate a knuckle of veal in pieces by sawing through the bone. Wipe, put in kettle with one pound lean veal and one onion. Cover with boiling water and cook slowly until veal is tender. Drain, chop meat finely, add salt and pepper. Garnish bottom of mold with cooked peas. Put in layer of meat, layer of peas, and cover with remaining meat. Reduce liquor to one cupful and pour over meat. Press and chill, turn on dish and garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. LET MARTHA REST SUNDAYS 441 Orange Sherbet 1% cups sugar Juice of 2 oranges 1 quart thin cream, Juice of 1 lemon or whole milk Add sugar to orange and lemon juice. Let stand until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Chill cream, add syrup, then freeze. Oatmeal Cookies 2/3 cup butter or other fat 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon each of nutmeg and cinnamon 2 eggs ? cup milk 1 cup seeded raisins 2 cups pastry flour 2 cups rolled oats. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, then milk and rolled oats, then raisins. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and spices together; sift again, and add to first mixture. Drop by spoonfuls on greased pan, and bake in hot oven. Apricot Cream 1 1/2 cups apricot pulp Juice of 1 lemon 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 1 quart of thin cream Pare and stone ripe apricots. Rub through strainer. Add sugar and lemon juice. Let stand until sugar is all dissolved (over night'if possible). Chill cream, and fruit syrup, and freeze. Salmon in Mold 1 can salmon or 4 tablespoons melted butter 2 cups cold cooked salmon Salt and pepper to taste 4 eggs beaten well Juice of 1/2 lemon, or a little vinegar ? cup fine crumbs Drain salmon, pick free from bones. Rub in bowl with silver spoon and work in the butter. Beat crumbs into eggs, season, and add to salmon. Steam in a buttered mold (granite, earthen. Or aluminum). Let stand until cold. Slice thin. Garnish with half slices of lemon. Bottled Tomatoes Select firm, smooth, ripe tomatoes. Wipe them and cut out the hard center around the stem ends, then cut in halves, crosswise. Dip soft side in melted butter; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and buttered crumbs, pressing crumbs into tomato with knife. Arrange in well greased broiler and broil until soft with skin side down. Remove to hot serving platter and serve immediately. Notes from the Field Garfield Stake. A fine demonstration of what may be accomplished when vision is coupled with faith and energy is given in the work of the past year in the Garfield stake Relief Society. Under the able leadership of the stake presidency and board, all lines of Relief Society work have been enthusiastically demonstrated, with wonderfully fine results. The activities have included ward conferences in all the wards of the stake, a very fine visiting teachers' convention, and a teacher-training convention. Subjects for discussion in these various activities have Display By ESCALANTE NORTH WARD been along those lines that will tend to make the women more efficient in the discharge of their duties in the Society as well as in the home. Recognition of the fine cook book published by this stake has been made before in the Magazine, and the fact that the artistic side of the work has not been neglected is borne out in the picture here presented. This is from the Escalante North Ward; it shows the type of art work accomplished in the Work and Business Meeting. In this stake there are special obstacles to be overcome. We congratulate President Rowan and her board upon the work accomplished. Summit Stake.; News of the reorganization of the Summit stake Relief Society came to the office some time ago, but it was not until NOTES FROM THE FIELD 443 the present issue that the Magazine was able to announce the list of newly elected officers. They are: president, Myrtle Richens; first counselor, Edith C. Clark; second counselor, Annie W. Wilde; secretary-treasurer, Caroline B. Sargent; chorister, Judith A. Beard; organist, Mary E. Wright; magazine representative, Vivian D. Sargent; literary leader, Lydia Demming; teachers topic leader, Bessie Hixson; clinic and welfare work, Clara Copely. We think highly of the Summit stake organization, and expect excellent work from the fine corps of leaders now in charge. North Sevier Stake. Under the leadership of the new presidency and stake beard, North Sevier stake Relief Society entertained the following retiring officers: Minnie S. Dastrup, president; Elizabeth Thalman, first counselor; Virgie E. Cowley, secretarytreasurer; and Laura E. Holdaway, social service leader. For their long and efficient services, the retiring officers were presented with a token of appreciation. Mrs. Dastrup has served as president for the past seven years. As they retire from their office, these sisters enjoy the love and appreciation of the entire stake. Similar successful work is expected from the new cfficers who have assumed the leadership. Curlew Stake. A clinic and piece of social welfare work exceptionally successful in the field of health has been carried on in thd Curlew stake under the leadership of the Relief Society stake presidency and board. There are, in all, about 1,256 people in the Curlew stake. The inconvenience of taking people who need attention to the distant hospitals renders most necessary such pieces of work as that recently accomplished by the stake board. With the unreserved cooperation of the local physician, who called others to his aid, in some 43 cases diseased tonsils and adenoids were removed. The Relief Society organization advanced and the money to those who were unable to meet the cost. This greatly needed piece of welfare work has produced excellent results in the stake. Pocatello Stake. On March 18th, the recreation hall of the Pocatello stake Relief Society was the scene of a large gathering celebrating the anniversary of the birth of the Relief Society. A beautiful pageant depicting the growth and development of the Relief Societies in the stake was presented. Over 100 women took part in this demonstration. The stage was artistically decorated in orchid and yellow and white flowers, the actors being 444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gowned in the same colors. Mrs. Otto McKnelly was the reader, and a combined ladies' chorus and orchestra furnished appropriate music. The seven general presidents of the Relief Society since 1842 were shown in living pictures. A biblical pageant depicting famous women of the Bible opened the entertainment. So successful was the program that on March 24th it was repeated. California Mission?Merced Branch, Fine reports reach us in reference to the work in the RELIEF SOCIETY California mission. The picture, typical of the. Groups of Relief Society women carrying on the work, came to us from the Merced branch. Kolob Stake. Another fine celebration of the anniversary day of the Relief Society was that of the Kolob stake, when the stake board entertained the ward executive officers and the stake presidency and their wives. All guests were asked to wear an old-fashioned bonnet. During the luncheon an address of welcome was given by Stake Relief Society President Hannah B. Mendenhall. Each group was welcomed in honor of the first Relief Society organization, and the succeeding presidents down to the present day. During the luncheon, toasts in the honor of St. Patrick were given from aeroplanes taking an imaginary trip to the Emerald Isle. Games, community singing, and jokes ended a very pleasant afternoon. At the luncheon the place cards were a surprise to Sister Mendenhall, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 445 Learing a miniature photograph of herself. The various wards of the stake celebrated Anniversary Day on Tuesday, March 19th. Four of the wards gave the play "The Miracle," written by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine and published in the Magazine. The new plan for the visiting teachers is proving most satisfactory and the attendance of teachers is steadily increasing. Logan Stake. The problem of beautifying the chapel grounds of the Providence Second Ward was solved when the Relief Society of that ward devised ways and means. Through the efforts of a committee a gravel bed was made into a beautiful lawn and flower-bed. Each member of the Relief Society was asked to donate 50 cents for plants and shrubs; the men of the ward, donating their work, placed in fit condition the grounds. About $752.60 was the total of the donation in cash and work. Not only did the group of women respond to their part of the work, but planted corn and beans on a vacant piece of property and made noodles to sell, realizing over $300 from the sale. Extensive improvements throughout the coming season are planned by the beautification committee. Relief Society Group Conventions, 1929 Two-day Conventions May 4-5 Alberta, Lethbridge, St. Johns, Uintah. May 11-12 Snowflake, Taylor. May 18-19 Big Horn, Maricopa. May 25-26 Juarez, Kanab, St. Joseph. June 1-2 Boise, Moapa, Raft River, San Juan. June 15-16 St. George, San Luis, Star Valley, Union, Young. June 22-23 Carbon. June 29-30 Wayne, Woodruff. July 6-7 Curlew, Lost River, Lyman. July 13-14 Bannock, Emery. Aug. 17-18 Blaine, Roosevelt. Aug. 24-25 Duchesne. Sent # Garfield, Idaho, Panguitch. Oct. 19-20 Nevada. One-day Conventions June 23 San Francisco. Aug. 25 Burley, Cassia, Franklin, Minidoka, North Sevier, Oneida, Teton. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sept. 8 Benson, Box Elder, Cache, Hyrum, Logan, Montpelier. Sept. 15 Bear Lake, Fremont, Malad, Rigby, Summit, Yellowstone. Sept. 22 Mt. Ogden, Ogden, North Weber, Pocatello, Portneuf, Tooele, Twin Falls, Weber. Sept. 29 Alpine, Juab, Kolob, Lehi, Palmyra, Timpanogos, Oct. Utah. 13 Bear River, Beaver, Idaho Falls, Millard, Morgan. Nebo, Wasatch. 20 Blackfoot, Gunnison, Hollywood, North Sanpete. Sevier, South Sanpete, South Sevier, Shelley. 27 Deseret, Los Angeles, North Davis, Parowan, Tintic. Nov. 17 South Davis. Note: Dates for the ten Salt Lake County stake conventions will be announced later. Vacation's Disease By Linnie Fisher Robinson O Time, stop a moment!?why, I'm ill at ease; Vacation is going; I've still the disease: Trips in the canyons, camps under tall pines, Swimming and dancing, no time for the lines Of the books we love dear, or the words that fall clear, On our hearts when the call of our work comes to ear. O Time, stop a moment!?I can't see you go; It's surely not over, I've loved it all so. Vacation? The word seems as faint and as far From things I love now, as a dim shining star. I've read books and loved them, heard tales of them told, Shook hands with an author more precious than gold. From the lips of the sisters with hair silv'ry gray Living tokens of hope from the Gospel's bright ray. I've seen the sick cared for, the lonely made glad, And great shafts of sunshine for me when I'm sad. O Time, pass along just however you please; I wouldn't want always "vacation's disease." Guide Lessons For October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) BOOK OF MORMON: SOME PRELIMINARIES 1. Preview of Lesson: For the next lesson read the first fourteen chapters of the Book of Mormon?to page 32. This covers the following points: First, the visions of Lehi, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem and the commandment of the Lord for him to take his family "into the wilderness" and across the sea to the Promised Land; second, the actual. Journey as far as the Valley of Lemuel, which was "near the borders" of the Red Sea at the mouth of a river that emptied into it; third, some things that happened in this valley?the return of the four sons of Lehi to Jerusalem for the Brass Plates, their return there for the family of Ishmael, and an extended vision to Nephi in confirmation of one already given to his father. Put into a brief outline, it would be: I. Visions to Lehi. 1. Concerning Jerusalem. 2. Concerning the Promised Land. II. Journey to and Encampment in Lemuel. III. Events in the Valley of Lemuel. 1. Return of the sons to Jersualem. (a) For the Brass Plates. What these were. How they compare with our Bible. (See 13:23.) (b) For the family of Ishmael. 2. Visions in the Valley of Lemuel. (a) To Lehi, concerning the iron rod. (b) To Nephi, concerning Christ in Palestine and America. The apostate church, White colonists in America, Later developments. 2, A Look Ahead: It may be well perhaps to give here a suggestion of what the present course in the Book of Mormon is to cover, since it is to extend over the next three years. For one thing we shall read the Book of Mormon from cover to cover. That is the only way in which one can catch the spirit of the book. This will take about two years of nine lessons each, 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and maybe more. During the progress of this reading we shall attempt to study the story of the Book of Mormon peoples in connection with their social, political, and religious ideas, and to ascertain the spiritual doctrines contained in the Record of the Nephites, section by section. And then we shall consider in the last year of the course, the teachings of the Book of Mormon in their relation one to another, as a system of religion, and also we shall seek to ascertain how. We may know the truth of the Book of Mormon, through internal evidences, external evidences, and the testimony of the Holy Ghost. Speaking of evidences, we ought probably to begin with the same thought with which we shall end, namely, the way in which the Book of Mormon itself advises that we find out its truth. It is in the very last chapter, verses 3-5. In order to emphasize the point it would be well to read it in the class and spend a few minutes talking about it. We have doubtless heard a great deal about the external evidences of the Nephite Record?that is, about the confirmation we have in Indian traditions, in the ruins of ancient America, and other ways. All this is good enough in its place, but we must know what that place is. No amount of study of these evidences will give us a testimony of the Book of Mormon. At best they can but confirm the testimony we may already have. There is only one way in which that testimony can come, and that is the way suggested by the book itself?through the gift of the Holy Ghost. This way gives us personal experience?the only way in which we can know anything, so as to be sure about it. 3. A Wonderful Book: Three things are to be noted under this head. The Book of Mormon is wonderful in its contents as history. It tells us of some very singular events. Some of these are such as cannot be duplicated in any other volume for their dramatic nature. And then there are some very remarkable people described there, and in such a way as to make them stand out in our minds. The Book of Mormon is a wonderful book in its teachings. The Prophet Joseph said once that the Nephite Scriptures are the "most correct" in their teachings of any in the world and that one can get nearer to God by living according to these teachings than by any other book whatsoever. And he ought to know. The doctrines of the Book of Mormon are explained in a way that can be undersfood by any one. Moreover, it contains the fulness of the gospel. The Book of Mormon also is wonderful in its spirit. Every person, as you know, has a spirit peculiar to himself. So has every home. Similarly every book emits an inflyence, because it was written by some person with an influence, The spirit of GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449 the Book of Mormon is highly spiritual, devotional. The keynote of this spiritual volume was struck by the first Nephi when he wrote that he would set down only "the things of God" and ordered that his successors of the pen should do the same. No one can read the Book of Mormon through, believing what he reads, without experiencing a feeling of exaltation and faith in God.; 4. The Nephite Record, as we have already stated, is to be read from beginning to end. But in order that this reading shall be the easier and the more intelligent, it is necessary to keep certain things clearly in mind. The Book of Mormon is not a modern book, either in form or in content. It is a translation, not an original composition, by Joseph Smith. Its people lived ages ago?the Jaredites more than twenty-five centuries ago and the Nephites more than sixteen hundred years ago. They thought in terms of their own simple lives and civilization and culture. And the language of the Book of Mormon is the language of a young man in our own generation who had had no training at all in literary work. This fact must never be lost sight of in reading the Nephite Record. Out of this basic fact come two very important things, also to be kept in mind. One is that the form in which the Book of Mormon is cast is ancient, not modern. It begins, as you may know, with the migration of the Lehites from Jerusalem to America, and goes on to detail the history of the colonists to the year four hundred twenty-one, A. D. Toward the end of the volume we are given a brief history of a people who lived here for a thousand years before the Lehites came to America. If the Book of Mormon were a modern composition, it would most likely begin with the earlier people, and proceed in chronological order. Again, the record of the Nephites and their conflicts with the Lamanites is sometimes hard to follow by reason of the structure. The sections of the book are named from the writers of them, instead of from the nature of the subject-matter, as it would be were it a modern composition. Besides, groups of people every now and then form colonies and have their own history recorded, which, when it furnishes any material such as Nephi would think dealt sufficiently with "the things of God," are told in the general narrative. In modern dress these side-accounts would be indicated by the necessary typography. Another fact growing out of the antiquity of the Book of Mormon which must be borne in mind, lies in the nature of its contents. Its people are simple, primitive folk, not the sophisticated sort we read about in the histories of other ancient peoples. And so when we read here of kings and queens, of palaces and thrones, or of judges and courts, we must guard against reading 450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into these terms ideas that we have attached to similar words in the histories of European nations. Moreover, we do not have the entire history of the Book of Mormon peoples. Instead we are given the life of the nation as it bore on the main theme of the Record, which was, as you may remember, whatever brought out the "things of God." Questions 1. Suppose the head of your family should ask that you and the children go with him to, say, the interior of Africa, on foot or, at best, on animals, in the primitive fashion, and he gave as a reason that he had had a dream or vision. What would be your reaction, and the reaction of other members of the family, to this request? Consider in detail what you would be leaving, what you would be going to, the probable hardships you would endure on the way. (The Lehite women bore children on the way, including Sariah.) This will help you to realize the situation in the case of Lehi and his family. 2. Since the customs of the Book of Mormon peoples will be very important in our study, it would be a good thing to have one or two persons appointed from the class to set down from time to time, and keep a record of these, as we go along in our reading. For instance, in the present lesson we read. That the language used was Egyptian, that they lived in tents in the Valley of Lemuel, that they knew of wine and drunkenness, that metallic plates were used as records, and so on. At the end of the course, when this material will be called for, we shall have it pretty much collected and arranged. 3. Also it will be a good thing to set down the doctrinal points as we come to them. Maybe some one or two could be appointed to do this work?not the same, of course, as take care of the other. This, too, will come in handy later on. If all the members of the class will do this, so much the better. 4, What differences do you find between Nephi and Laman? Can you account for these differences? What was it that made Nephi the leader? 5. How did Nephi come to know that his father had really received a vision? Is there any other way by which he could have learned this? Why did not the other members of the family do as he did?especially Lehi's wife? 6. Read in the class the words of Nephi (3:7) about the Lord preparing a way to fulfill his commandments. What does this mean? Recall other similar cases where this has been done. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 451 LESSON II Work and Business INTRODUCTION TO TEACHERS' TOPICS FOR 1929-30 "The grand aim of man's creation is the development of a grand character, and a grand character is by its very nature the product of a probationary discipline." In this the chief aim of our existence, this wonderful responsibility of becoming co-workers with God, is placed upon the parents. In the work of building noble character, "Their power lies in the words they use, the examples they set, and the acts they approve." ''They teach the precepts that tend to perpetuate their philosophy of life. They either emphasize these precepts or nullify them by example.'?From "Character Education in the Denver Public Schools,' Monograph No. 14. Character cannot be "talked into" boys and girls. Thoughtful and persistent means must be used from earliest childhood. The creation of favorable conditions, watch care, guidance, and example build day by day the stable qualities that enable the child to pass normally through the adolescent period into strong, responsible manhood and womanhood. "The little one begins to learn after it is born, and all that it knows greatly depends upon its environment, the influences under which it is brought up, the kindness with which it is treated, the noble example shown it, the hallowed influence of father and mother over its infant mind. The child will be largely what its environment and its parents make it."?President Joseph F. Smith. Our aim this year will be to bring to the attention of the mothers those fundamental traits of character that secure real and lasting happiness. In the inculcation of these traits we are now incurring the risk of failure. We hope to approach our task with such prayerful hearts, such faith and love, as will secure the blessings of heaven in the solution of our problems. The topics to be considered are: Upholding Church Standards, Obedience, Reverence, Courage, Patriotism, Cheerfulness, Gratitude, Courtesy, Cooperation of Parents. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in October) UPHOLDING CHURCH: STANDARDS I. Church standards are established on the rock of revelation: 1. Gospel truths are not dependent on time and place?they are always true. 452 IT. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. If the most famous doctors should say there is no harm in tobacco, we should still have the unfailing word of the Lord to the contrary. What makes adherence to Church standards difficult? 1. Community standards are no longer Church standards, 2. Little by little there is danger of slipping away from the truth. 3. If Church standards are hard for us to maintain, they are still more difficult for our children. We, having known pioneer parents, have been thrilled by their devotion to the gospel; whereas our children are living in an age of emphasis on man's material achievements. III. There is in the gospel a power that gives us the strength to IV. Do right. How shall we utilize this power for our children? 1. We must lead children to realize the importance of religion in their lives. 2. We must give instruction?must teach from infancy a love of the gospel and respect for its laws. Example: a. Showing our love for the gospel. B. Not over-emphasizing material things but imparting a proper sense of values. C. While cultivating tolerance towards others, we must not allow ourselves to weaken in our adherence to Church standards. How can we make the standards of the Church our standards? 1. Since we have the definite word of the Lord on these things there can be no excuse for any lowering of standards to meet emergencies. 2. We must keep holy the Sabbath day. 3. Observe the Word of Wisdom. 4, Maintain chastity as the pearl of life. VI. When is the time to act? 1. We must begin early and continue late entering into their lives. 2. We must really enter into the hopes, ideals, lives, of our children. 3. We must lead and permit them to enter into ours. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 453 LESSON III ' Literature (Third Week in October) Preview of Literary Lessons for 1929-30 The nine biographies and the issues of the Magazines in which the various outlines are to be published are: 1, Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser; August, 1929. 2. The Girl in the White Armor, by Albert Bigelow Paine; September, 1929. 3. Since An American Idyl is out of print, a further announcement will be made in relation to the October sketch. 4. A Son of the Middle Border, by Hamlin Garland; November, 1929, 5. The Lost Commander, by Mrs. Mary S. Andrews; December, 1929, 6. Noon, by Kathleen Norris; January, 1930. 7, Joaquin Miller, by himself; February, 1930, 8. Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton; March, 1930. 9. Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson; April, 1930. (These books may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) This selection has been made because of the interest of the books themselves and because of the beauty of life that is found in most of them. Class leaders could very well make the assignments for the year now, in order that those who are to review the books may have plenty of time in which to read them and absorb their contents. Wherever possible the entire membership of the class should read the books. Nine books are not many to read in a season, especially when the books are as fascinating and as worth while as these are. With one or two exceptions these are all cheap books, to be had at very reasonable prices. Every library in the entire inter-mountain region might well own at least one copy oi each of these books. Fascinating as fiction, they are as valuable as the best works in literature. Some questions that reviewers should ask themselves and the authors when they are reading the books are: What has this author attempted to do? How well has he or she accomplished it? Is the feeling sound? Or is the narrative over sentimental? Oris it too cold? Are the incidents well selected to reveal the character in question? Is the language suitable? Are the words well chosen? Does the book have charm? Is the character portrayed as he or she is or was, or does the, author give only those incidents which tend to create a 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pre-conceived impression? That is, does the biography state unbiased fact? Or is it propaganda in favor of the character considered? So much for the literary form of the biography. The reviewer may then turn to the character under observation and propound some questions: Is this person worth knowing? Why? Did he have something for the world the lack of which would make the world poorer? What is that something? Is he revealed in this narrative? What successes did he have which encourage us in our work? What failures did he suffer which we may avoid? Of what importance was he in his time? At present? What heritage did he leave? What characters whom you know have some of his better traits? The reviewer's problem is to reveal to her audience the character of the person under observation, especially if that audience has not read the book that is being studied. She must also be able to point out the excellencies and shortcomings of the authors, telling in what way they have been successful and in what ways they have fallen short. KARL G. MAESER By Reinhard Maeser The life of Karl G. Maeser, by his son, Reinhard Maeser, has been selected for study as the first biography of the series that will constitute this course. This selection was made because of the importance of the subject and Dr. Maeser's place in the affections of thousands of Latter-day Saints. It is such a eulogy as one would expect from a respectful son concerning his father. In this biography we behold Karl G. Maeser, the hero of a son's heart; but we catch few glimpses of Kari G. Maeser when he is not on dress parade. At the beginning of the course, a few suggestions and definitions may be in order. For instance, before we begin upon these excellent books, perhaps it would be well to tabulate a few things for which we are to be on the lookout. If "Biography presents the picture of a mind, a soul, a heart, of an environment; of successes and failure that make, or seek to make, the subject immortal", as Dr. Joseph Collins says it does, then we are to observe in the story of this life those elements which enshrined it in so many hearts. "From biography,' Dr. Collins continues, "man gets moral, physical, mental, and emotional assistance; he sees where others have failed, and why; he recognizes avoidable GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 455 obstacles and handicaps; he learns the value of health and its relation to happiness; and he is made to see that material prosperity does not always spell spiritual welfare. "He appreciates the meaning of culture and its influence on the individual and his time; he runs the gamut of emotions that are aroused by all good biographies; he suffers vicariously or enjoys objectively with the subject. His own life therefore becomes happier and more complete because of his intimate sojourn with a successful predecessor." In twenty-eight brief chapters, Reinhard Maeser, a former professor of English at Brigham Young University, has attempted to give to posterity a biography of his illustrious father; but through them all, he has revealed the fact that he was more of a historian than a biographer, after all. We see more of what Karl G. Maeser did than of what he was. The book begins with the youth and early life of Dr. Maeser as the background for his later life. It then follows the great teacher through many trials and triumphs to his selection as principal of Brigham Young Academy, the parent Church school, and thence to his new position of superintendent of schools. The later chapters contain accounts of his death and many of the expressions concerning him made by prominent people. In his narration, Reinhard Maeser has employed simple and direct, though effective language, but has not attempted to garnish up the story. The biography indicates that Dr. Maeser's life might well be divided into three periods: first, the period of preparation in the Fatherland, when, as student and teacher. He laid the foundation for his career; second, the period of growth, during which he acted as pioneer and missionary; and third, the final period, in which he became the great educator and director of educational affairs. Karl Gottfried Maeser was born January 16, 1828, in Vorbrucke, Meissen, in Saxony, Germany. His parents, believing in preparation for life's work, encouraged their children to obtain an education. Karl G. Was graduated in May, 1848, from the Normal School at Fredrichstadt. In the year 1855, a young married man with one son, he met for the first time three "Mormon" missionaries. He was soon converted. This first period of his father's life Reinhard passes over rather hurriedly, though glimpses of the character of the future great teacher are given. A long period of trouble and perplexity is then recounted till 1856, when the German school teacher and his little family emigrated to America, where all were to be tried as in a fiery furnace. Poverty and 456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE home-sickness were combined with parental importunities to have the convert renounce the new religion and return to Germany; but Karl G. Maeser's testimony of the Gospel stood throughout his life, steadfast as the mountains looking down upon his struggles. Educated, refined, this gentleman from the culture of Germany was thrown into company of excellent though sometimes uncouth companions, who were officers in the new Church he had joined; and he soon discovered the hearts of gold beating beneath the rough exteriors. Soon after reaching Salt Lake City, the German school master opened a private school; and from that time on, except when he was filling missions, he kept constantly busy in his chosen profession. It was a "starvation period," throughout which the professor was successful in collecting barely enough to keep his family from actual want. His son has preserved for us a vivid picture of this period. "He knew," says the biographer, "what it was to be hungry; he knew what it was to shiver with his loved ones on Christmas day; he knew what it was to hear people say: 'If he's too lazy to work for his living, let him starve.' " During these dark days he received a letter from his father imploring him to return to Germany, where he could resume his position again and live comfortably; but he would not turn against his testimony. He threw the letter into the fire, thanking God once more for a testimony that enabled him to bear up under his trials. "I would rather take my wheelbarrow and go day by day among this people, collecting chips and whetstones for my pay than to have the Kingdom of Saxony open to me, if that meant sacrifice of my knowledge and testimony of the gospel." His most bitter struggles ended in 1876 when Professor Maeser, crowning his faith with glory, was called to his greatest work, that of becoming first principal of the Brigham! Young Academy, the parent Church school. When preparing to leave his home in Salt Lake City for his new home in Provo, he went to President Young for his commission. "I am about to leave for Provo, Brother Young," he said, "to start my work in the Academy. Have you any instructions to give me?" The President looked steadily forward for a few minutes, as though in deep thought, then said: "Brother Maeser, I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication table without the spirit of God. That is all. God bless you. Good-bye." GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 457 Those words of the Prophet, says the biographer, were guiding principles in all of Dr. Maeser's subsequent work, becoming the means of inspiration to hundreds of young men "to become their better selves." In 1892, after sixteen years of service as principal, Dr. Maeser was released and appointed superintendent of the Church School System. During his incumbency, he organized the Religion Class work. The life of the great teacher drew sweetly yet suddenly to a close when, early in the morning of February 15, 1901, he fell asleep not to waken again in this life. Karl G. Maeser is a well written book containing much that is fine. The writer was handicapped by his reverence for his father. He has not given us, and perhaps no one could, the Karl G. Maeser who was strong enough to impress himself so deeply upon the minds and souls of those who came in contact with him. Some of the sayings of this philosophical educator have become as potent in many lives as lines from the scripture. "Relatives and debtors of great characters should not undertake to be their biographers," says Dr. Collins. Perhaps he is right; yet we have in this volume the story of a noble life nobly lived. From it we can draw inspiration and the power with which to conquer our own world. The great teacher has passed on. Hundreds knew him; other hundreds are now to know him through this book by his eldest son. Questions and Problems 1. Criticize Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser, from a literary point of view. That is, point out the excellencies and any defects discovered in the book. Is the language effective? Does it ring true? Does it give an adequate picture of Dr. Maeser? Does it reveal the man sufficiently for him to become a potent factor in your life? Etc. 2. Name some of the traits of character that made Dr. Maeser great. 3. What part did preparation play in his life? 4. Discuss the topic: 'Fortunate is the Great Man Who Has a Great Biographer." 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PREVIEW OF SOCIAL SERVICE LESSONS FOR 1929-30 Social Service Lessons for 1929-30 will be as follows: The first three lessons, for October, November, and December, will be a continuation of the Child Study Course, with 'The Child: His Nature and His Needs" as the text; the subject of the six lessons that follow, covering the months from January to June inclusive, will be "The Field of Social Work.' No text will be required for these lessons, but references for outside reading will be given. Lesson 16 CHANGING OBJECTIVES IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS (Based on Part 3 of "The Child: His Nature and His Needs') Our system of compulsory education was finally established after a long discussion. The conclusion was that every person who could read, write, and calculate according to the needs of daily life, and who had learned something about religion, the founding of our government, and the principles of freedom upon which it is maintained, would make a better citizen than one who could not read or write. Those who could not read or write would have to depend upon others for information regarding the nature of our government and what it demands of every citizen in order that it may continue strong, stable, and prosperous. A question frequently arises regarding the mounting expense of our educational system. Education is more expensive than any other public enterprise. But, quoting from the author of. This chapter, M. V. O'Shea: "Do you know that the nation's tobacco bill is greater each year than its bill for elementary, high school, collegiate, and normal school education all combined? Do you know there is as much spent for candy and chewing gum as for all our educational work? And that much more is expended for automobiles and gasoline for joy riding, than is expended for school buildings, equipment, text books, teachers, health officers in schools, play grounds, and all other items of school work combined? Do you know that base ball and the threatre cost as much as our total educational bill?" Our communities need men and women trained in surgery, medicine, psychiatry, education, nursing, and all professions. If the communities assist in training those who live by charging a GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 459 price for these services, the community is better off than without such service. Thus the interest of the individual and that of the community are reciprocal, and, for the most part, mutually dependent. For the people who will not work at these highly trained professions, education lays the foundation for an understanding of the relationships that exist among all classes of people as well as for a wider and richer appreciation of nature, of literature, and of beauty available for enjoyment. An artisan who appreciates the value of his life to mankind, who appreciates the beauty and significance of his surroundings, and who evaluates his conduct in terms of the real happiness it brings him and others, is just as truly an educated man as is a doctor or lawyer. The author suggests there is more pain and unhappiness caused by failure to adapt to one another because of temperamental, moral, or aesthetic deficiencies than there is for lack of food, clothing, and shelter. He further says: "The most stable and prosperous nation is the one in which the people are the best organized and best trained in group adjustment and co-operation, rather than the one that is most prolific in material resources." The guiding aim in teaching the child to read and write should be that he may participate in what his ancestors have achieved and what his associates are now achieving, and that he may communicate his exeriences to others. A pupil should study history in order to learn the course over which the race has come, and to understand the conditions essential to the welfare of present society. He should study geography in order that he may be a citizen of the world and not simply of the street or town in which he happens to live at the moment. He should learn that human society today is bound together very closely, and that while people may be separated in space they should be very close together in spirit?that we are all one body and the conduct of one individual has its influence upon all his fellows. In the end, co-operation and altruism yield happiness; antipathy and selfishness are certain to yield pain and discontent. Questions 1. How is a community as a whole benefitted by free compulsory education? 2. Can we afford to expand our free school system downward to include nurseries and kindergartens? To include part time and adult classes? If so, how shall we pay the bill? 3. Which of the physical desires may be lessened by intellectual concentration and satisfaction? Of the following: joyriding, cigarettes, over-use of cosmetics and candy, which could be modified by reading, music, urt, and physical play, if the latter were adequately and properly taught? 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4. What might be attained economically, physically, and intellectually, if the use of tobacco could be eliminated? 5. What objectives does the average parent have in mind when he sends his children through school? 6. In selecting courses of study for his child, along what lines does the parent usually reason? 7. Accepting the statement, "Man is that he may have joy," what should be the objectives in education? 8. Is vocational work in schools encouraged, or hindered by the attitude of and remarks by parents regarding their own work? Should a parent so educate a child that it will not have to work as its parents have done? 9. Criticise the following quotation: "Children should be allowed to live their lives straight out. They should not hesitate to expose their ignorance. When children are stimulated to study for fear of failure to please the teacher or parent, to get a grade or to be promoted, a subtle influence is at work producing double motives. This not only interferes with the coordination of the nervous system, resulting in ill-health, but also prevents clean thinking; and most of all it interferes with that basic sincerity which is the fundamental condition of a fine moral life." "Gitar: A Social Interpretation of Education, page 150-1. 10. (a) Do the children of your community have opportunity for training in some vocation that will enable them to take care of themselves economically and physically? (b) Is their environment sufficiently aesthetic, as to what they see and hear, to make them happy? (c) Are they being trained to improve their own surroundings in this respect? (d) Are they learning to be of service in society? (e) Are they being trained to live in peace and harmony with their associates? (f) Cite actual things taught in school that contribute to each of the above aims. There are still available about seventy-five copies of The Child: His Nature and His Needs, which will be used as a text for the Social Service lessons until the end of this year. Orders for this book should be addressed to the General Secretary's Office, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is $1.25, postpaid. ANNOUNCEMENT The Fall Quarter at Brigham Young University Will Begin SEPTEMBER SIXTEENTH Foundation Courses leading to all the professions are offered by a Strong Faculty in Five Colleges? College of Arts and Sciences College of Education College of Fine Arts Member of the Association of American Universities If you haven't received your 1929-30 catalogue you may obtain one by addressing: Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH Clean Foods No firm should be permitted to serve foods to the Public who fails to adhere to a rigid selling. To be able to secure meats and groceries kept and sold under strict sanitary conditions, is surely a great privilege. Every O. P. Skaggs System patron enjoys this rare protection. 0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine College of Applied Science At Less thia hialt College of Commerce policy of sanitation in equipment, display, handling and This Happened in Rigby, Idaho Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation: "I want a can of Pork and Beans." "BLUE PINE?" "Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans." "Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?" "The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten." Scowcroit s BLUE PINE PORK % BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans. Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with. Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and let the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal. Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Quality Training for Utah Students Fully qualified high school graduates have never been refused admission to the State's highest institution of learning? nor does the University of Utah anticipate changing this situation. However, the entrance requirements have been kept at a high standard, as has the University work, so that all students know that their credits and degrees from this institution are unquestioned anywhere in the University world. Students continue to come to The University of Utah in increased numbers, until the enrollment surpasses that of all other colleges in the State, but all qualified students will be welcomed and will receive the best the State has to offer in educational work. A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of excellent training amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students of the State who are interested in obtaining a University training. Registration Dates Freshmen must register September 26, and attend special instructional classes September 27 and 28. Former students and transfer students from other universities and colleges must register September 30. Regular class work starts October 1. Freshmen should send their high school credits before September 1. School of Arts and Sciences School of Medicine School of Education School of Law School of Mines and School of Business Engineering Extension Division For catalog or other information, address, The President, UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH penn: Beneficial Insurance--- and Why? NOT ONLY DO YOU RECEIVE ALL THE GUARANTEES WRITTEN IN OUR POLICIES, BUT IN ADDITION YOU SHARE IN THE PROFITS OF THE COMPANY: This Participating Insurance SOLD AT OUR OLD NON-PARTICIPATING RATES Insuring the Best there is in Life Insurance And Issued By The Big Home Compal Is your life Insurance Beneficial? Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society  HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr. 