An Overall with a Classy Appearance
MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS
GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE
A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster
None Too Large None Too Small
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
An Interesting Fact
"None would go so far, perhaps, as to rate the standing of a family by the brand of Cocoa it uses, but it is an interesting fact that the modern well-managed home is likely to be particular about its Cocoa. If the pantry reveals a jar of Scowcroft's Blue Pine Cocoa, you can be sure. That family has adopted a Cocoa that is full of flavor and a standard for comparison."
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1—New style, ribbed lgt. wgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25
No. 2—Old style, ribbed lgt. wgt. Cotton, our standard summer wgt. $1.25
No. 3—Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.90
No. 4—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6—High grade rayon tricosham silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7—Light wgt. new or old style, mercerized silky finish $1.75
No. 8—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number $4.25
No. 9—Ribbed med. Wgt. Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number $4.75
No. 10—Ribbed light weight men's and ladies' summer garments, new and old style $.85
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street ½ Block South of Temple Gates
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Wedding Announcements and Invitations
Be sure to see us before ordering your announcements or invitations. If you are unable to come in, don't hesitate to write for samples and prices. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. Our line is complete.—Printed, Process Embossed, and Engraved. Prices are right.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
142 Spring Needle Flat Weave, a popular number $1.05
208 A Good Number, Rib Lt. Wt. 1.35
278 Medium Rib 1.40
32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes 1.65
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.25
264 Rayon Silk. Fine Quality 3.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt.
Call Your Keeley's Dealer.
ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Extra packed in ice.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices.
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 60% Wool and Silk Stripe 4.65
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
Cutler's
36 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE PAINT PRODUCTS
During "Clean-up" Time this Spring
Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
At Less Than half the cost of cream
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids—
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY
SALT LAKE CITY
159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
USE TRUSLER'S FLOUR
Made in SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We Want You to Know
that a broad curriculum of the highest standard will be offered at Utah's oldest and highest ranking educational institution. It will be of special interest to teachers, supervisors and other educators, as well as to regular university students and citizens in general.
THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
believes in serving the State in a most efficient manner, by bringing to the State noted leaders in various fields of educational endeavor. In addition to our own well trained faculty, which is well known, we desire to introduce the following visiting educators who will enrich an already excellent faculty:
Dr. L. L. Bernard, Professor of Sociology, University of North Carolina, lecturer on South America.
Dr. Joseph R. Geiger, Head of the Department of Philosophy and Psychology, College of William and Mary.
Miss Helen Guest, Representing the National Committee for Visiting Teachers, New York City, offering courses pertaining to the visiting teacher and her problems.
Miss Julia Letheld Hahn, Supervisor of Kindergarten and Primary Grades, San Francisco, California. Member of summer session faculty, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1928.
Dr. Edward M. Hulme, Professor of History, Stanford University, author of one of the best known books on the Renaissance and the Reformation, offering one course in this subject and one on contemporary European civilization and culture.
Dr. Obed S. Johnson, of Stanford University, offering two courses in Oriental history and civilization.
Dr. Edward M. Gwathmey, Professor of English, College of William and Mary.
Dr. Charles McKinley, Professor of Political Science, Reed College.
Dr. John G. Rossman, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Gary, Indiana.
Dr. R. D. Russell, Professor of Secondary Education, University of Idaho.
Miss Florence Sommers, of New York University, Supervisor of Physical Education, Baltimore.
Dr. Robert J. Sprague, Professor of Economics, Rollins College.
Miss Alvaretta West, of Cleveland, Ohio, in Music Appreciation.
Dr. Louis Wolsey, Chancellor of the Jewish Chautauqua Society of Philadelphia; series of lectures.
To this list of out-of-state visiting faculty has been added J. Spencer Cornwall, Supervisor of Music, Granite School District; Miss Caroline Parry, art teacher who has had extensive training in New York; and Dr. J. T. Worlton, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Salt Lake City.
Exceptional Advantages for Study Are Available in Salt Lake City
One Term of Six Weeks—June 10 to July 19
Write to President's Office for Catalogue
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
DISTRIBUTOR FOR
Sager Metal Weatherstrip
For Doors and Windows
ROLSCREENS — Ideal for Casements. The World's Finest Screen.
BOSTWICK—Goodell Venetian Blinds. More Light and Air — Without Glare.
INSULATION for CEILINGS—Warmer in Winter—Cooler in Summer.
PORCELAIN TILE
Something New in Tile
WHEN you install Sager Metal Weatherstrip, you are assured of these comforts and savings:

Room comfort. No draughts to chill you.
Quiet. No rattling windows, open or closed.
Fuel savings. U. S. Dept. Agr. Reports 25%-40%.
Clean walls, furnishings. Less housework, decorating costs are cut.
A written guarantee that pledges performance of every promise. By a Home Company. Recommended by Leading Architects and Contractors.
R. E. BREWER CO.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah
Radio Station K. S. L. Or this Publication.
Write for full particulars
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Built to Endure
6% and Safety
We pay dividends quarterly on (paid-up) Class "C" Stock $100 per share. Or you can start an account of $1.00 or more on Class "B" Stock any time, and get 6% per annum, semi-annually. All your money invested can be withdrawn on short notice.
PRUDENTIAL BUILDING SOCIETY
GEORGE M. CANNON, President and Manager
49 W. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
Please send me further information about Class "B" and "C" Stock
Name
Address
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS:

The Pioneer Mother Frontispiece
The Pioneer Mother Jennie B. Knight 233
Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker (with portrait) Alice Louise Reynolds 236
The Childless Mother Estelle Webb Thomas 237
Mrs. Marcia Knowlton Howells (with portrait) Mary Grant Judd 242
The Inauguration Mrs. Vera S. King 246
Editorial—President Hoover's Prohibition Pronouncement 248
Utah Provides for the Care of the Feeble-Minded 249
Utah Law Prohibits the Advertising of Tobacco and Cigarettes 250
Absent Camilla Woodbury Judd 251
Mother Heart Nelle Allen Talmage 252
The Face in the Mirror Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen 253
Invisible Servants of Mankind Thomas L. Martin 258
Speaking of Girls Harrison R. Merrill 263
The Stork Mrs. Grace Woodbury 267
The Arrow of Chance Henry F. Kirkham 272
Pioneer Lois V. Hales 277
Cross-Sections of Utah History 278
Notes from the Field 282

VOL. XVI MAY, 1929 No. 5
EDITORIAL
President Hoover's Prohibition Pronouncement
Throughout the land there is joy and rejoicing because of the prohibition pronouncement of President Hoover in his inaugural address, delivered March 4, 1929, in the city of Washington, D. C.
Carlton M. Sherwood, in an article, "Prohibition's First Real Chance," says: "At last prohibition has a vigorous and outstanding defender in the person of the President of the United States. Since its inception, prohibition has needed moral support from the White House. This it has not had in the past in any real sense. Prohibition has succeeded exceptionally well despite this lack, but with such support it would have succeeded immeasurably better.
"In the ten minutes following his inauguration, President Herbert Hoover said more in support of the great national policy of prohibiting the liquor traffic than has ever been said by any President at any time. He did not evade. He recognized the issue. He put it first in his inaugural. As though to give redoubled emphasis to the message to his countrymen, at the close of his inaugural oath, he leaned over the Bible and kissed the well known eighteenth verse of the twenty-ninth chapter of Proverbs?'Where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he'.
"In our judgment, Herbert Hoover will do again and again what he did in his inaugural address in bringing the vital import-
EDITORIAL 253
ance of this question to the mind and heart of all the people. In his first message, President Hoover drove home the fact that 'it takes two to make a bootlegger', to use the searching phrase of Professor Horace D. Taft, brother of the Chief Justice of the United States. Already there is a new conscience abroad in the land on the matter. Many more or less neutral individuals, who were left cold by appeals of temperance bodies or lesser personages, have caught the implication and challenge of the President's inaugural appeal. He undoubtedly will need to speak several times, emphasizing one phase and another of this question. He begins by urging obedience because it is the law. If he continues, he will need to emphasize obedience not alone because it is the law, but because it is a good law. Both emphases are important."
It is a source of gratification to all people who really believe in prohibition to know that President Hoover has already indicated that he expects to have Congress transfer the prohibition enforcement bureau from the Treasury Department to the Department of Justice, under the Attorney-General. As it exists at present, the authority is divided. Placing prohibition in the Department of Justice, will give to it a unity that has been lacking in the present system. "No one can imagine," says Mr. Sherwood, "Herbert Hoover tolerating either corruption or inaction in the prohibition bureau or any other branch of the government."
But with all of Mr. Hoover's qualifications and desires, he cannot accomplish this great work alone. It behooves all government officials at Washington to stand squarely behind the President in this matter, and then, back of official Washington, should come the united support of all honorable men and women throughout the United States. It is our supreme chance to show to the world that the spiritual leadership we have assumed in this matter can be realized. We are in hearty accord with Mr. Sherwood when he says: "What, then, is the duty of those citizens who believe in prohibition? First, to trust and believe in President Hoover and give him a fair chance to start on this matter. Next, not to overwhelm him with advice or to criticise him too quickly on minor matters. This does not eliminate friendly criticism on vital matters, but it does preclude hasty and petulant criticism on trivial questions. He may not always do the wise thing, but it is our conviction he will always do what he believes to be the right thing. Let us 'have faith in Herbert Hoover'."
Utah Provides for the Care of the Feeble-Minded
Congratulations to Relief Society workers, to the Utah Society for Mental Hygiene, and to all others interested, on the passage of the bill in behalf of the feeble-minded. The $300,000 voted will make provision for a training school, urgently needed
254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in this State, as well as for other things that have become increasingly necessary for the best care and advancement of the feeble-minded. A special commission has the work in hand, and will look after the location of the school and other matters. Utah now joins the procession of States. She has reduced by one the number not making adequate provision for their feeble-minded, and has added to the long list of States that have recognized such provision as a necessity for the welfare of their unfortunates.
Who can measure the strength that the Relief Society brought to this great cause? To those who assisted by carrying petitions to signers, that the presentation might be forceful, we extend our compliments and appreciation. A very important piece of work has been ably put over by the Relief Society. To add to its efficiency, President Robison has given it much personal attention; and the Legislative Committee of the General Board?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Inez K. Allen, and Mrs. Ida P. Beal?spent many hours during the different sessions of the legislature, soliciting the support of members.
Utah Law Prohibits the Advertising of Tobacco and Cigarettes
Relief Society workers all over the Church will approve the new law that takes from the billboards of Utah all advertisements of cigarettes and tobacco. To be sure, we have the decision of the Supreme Court of the State to reckon with before we are entirely sure that this measure may become law. We trust that it will not be found unconstitutional.
Few if any other branches of business put more money and more art, coupled with a good deal of cleverness, into advertising than do the tobacco interests. Seeking to win the youth of the land, they have placed their advertising at such points along highways that it is impossible for people to traverse them, either by train or car, and not notice their impudent appeals. To have this advertising material removed will mean much to the morale of the State, for in the guise of beauty, advertising that is destructive to both mind and body is paraded by those interested in the sale of tobacco. Not only does the use of tobacco violate the laws of health, and the revealed Word of Wisdom, but it makes impossible a clean, sweet home.
We regret exceedingly that a similar bill failed in the Idaho legislature. It passed the Senate, but was defeated by a few votes in the House. We would suggest to the Relief Society workers of Idaho that they take an interest in this matter, and that two years hence they send to their law-making body, people who will foster this very desirable measure.
We congratulate the members of the Utah legislature on this sensible piece of work.
Absent
By Camilla Woodbury Judd
Why are the little birds so glad today, Filling the air with music sweet and clear? Can they be telling us that it is May, And Mother's Day, dear heart?and you not here?
Why do the roses bloom so rich and bright, Wafting their fragrant incense far and near? Why does the sunshine fall so warm and light, Upon this day of days?and you not here?
Why is the sky so blue, the earth so fair, As to your grave I come, with flowers and tears? Dear heart, is it because you're happier there, Where May Eternal glorifies the years?
Mother-Heart
By Nelle Allen Talmage
There was once a child who lived in a castle-like house with tall narrow windows. Here he lived very much by himself. He had food, shelter and raiment, yet he always felt hungry and thirsty and cold. The days were long and dreary, although in a child's life they should flit by like pretty butterflies in a field of clover. It was because She had gone! The yard below was inviting; but when the child reached it, he was lonelier than before. You see She had gone away!
And so, day after day, he mourned; but when the cool darkness drifted into his room and the friendly moon came to keep him company, he dreamed the dream that brought her back to him. Often in early summer he had walked with her in the garden;?the garden, bordered with fragrant alyssum, bedded with tulips and hyacinths,?filled with the homey, little, shrinking violets and sweet-faced pansies. Upon latticed fences, honeysuckle climbed, making the air fragrant with its perfume. The flowers were dear familiar, modest ones, but the loveliest of all was the clump of Madonna lilies, their tall, green stalks crowned with dazzling white blossoms?as tall and pure and fair as She had been. Often the child touched them, and worshipped the beauty and sweetness of the blossoms. He seemed to nestle on her breast!
There were trees in the garden, large, spreading elm trees, and a grove of tall, young aspens. The birds in the trees twittered and sang, and seemed to be telling him of the happy days he had spent with her. All this came back to him in his dream at nightfall.
Then there was He?big, strong, busy man. He left so early in the morning for some mysterious place in the city. The child had been there once on the cars, and had been frightened by the clacking of automobile sirens, shrill whistles, and the noise of the trains overhead. He did not like it, and his dreams of the garden and Her were much more lovely than his thought of the great man in the big city. Yet he loved this man, his father. He came home early in the evening before She had gone and romped with him. Sometimes he came with her to tuck him in; She was always there. But now he stayed later in the big city, and seldom did the child see him.
But one evening, just after the child had gone to bed, he came into the room just as he used to do. He had lost the sad look in his eyes and the child knew that some great news was to be told him. Expectantly he held out his arms to his daddy.
"My little son!" he said as he folded the boy to him. "My
MOTHER HEART 257
little son! Your eyes are the same heavenly blue,?your hair?Her glint of sunlight." The child nestled closer.
"Do you miss her, child?"
"More every day, Daddy. I see Her smile on the pansy face; I see Her eyes in the violets; I hear Her voice in the song of the birds; I smell Her fragrance among the mignonettes. I see Her in the Madonna lilies. I love the garden because it tells of Her."
The man crushed the boy to him; then letting him loose said, "She was an angel, son,?and God needed her to help Him. We'll always know that and remember Her that way. But the great and all-wise Father does not want us to mourn and be unhappy. He has sent another angel to care for us and love us. Some day soon I'm going to bring her here to be a mother to you. There are mothers who bear and mothers who rear, and blessed is the woman who takes some one else's child to her heart. Great is her love and exalted shall she be!" And the father bowed his head. The child could not remember hearing his father talk this way before.
"Is it all right, son?"
"It is all right, father."
That was all?but, in the darkness, strange fears came on him. He had heard stories of cruel stepmothers?and a stepmother was what she would be. Would she walk in the garden under the spreading elms?among the strong, young aspens? And the violets, the pansies, and the honeysuckle?would they greet her? The Madonna lilies?no! She might enjoy all the rest of the garden, but the little heaven among the lilies was for Her who had gone away!
And he fell asleep.
The next morning he wakened early and wondered, "Today, will she come?" But the day passed and the next and the next. Weeks passed, and then one day the house was in a bustle. Flowers in all the vases; curtains, shining white, hanging stiffly from the poles; sounds of baking and smells of cooking. Today was the day for He had come into the child's room and kissed him to wakefulness, and whispered, "Today she comes, son," and then had gone out.
The child was dressed in his little linen suit and told to keep clean and not to play rough. They need not have said that, for the child had ponderous thinking to do, and he climbed into the big chair. There he remained.
Then it seemed as if She who had gone, stood by him and smiled. How like a lovely Madonna lily she looked! Yes, this other she who was coming might have anything in the garden but the lily. That was sacred to Mother!
The horn of the car! The housekeeper and the maid and even the cook came strangely quiet into the hall.
258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The child uncurled himself from the chair and stood in the doorway. He should see her before she saw him and then he could tell.
His father's happy laugh! A low sweet voice as she greeted the servants! The child stood motionless looking up into her face. She was coming toward him?a flush on the cheek?a smile in her eyes. She stopped and opened her arms!
The child walked into them! He was no longer hungry and thirsty and cold. He was warmed and fed by the Mother-love in her face! Neither said a word. A warm embrace and a long look?a parting. Happy, he started for the outdoors without a kiss for his father. He knew now! His father started to call him back?but the other mother motioned, No. "Strange child!" said he. "Wonder child!" said she. The mother in her knew!
Out into the garden went the child, straight to the clump of Madonna lilies. It was early season, but one tall green stalk was crowned with a dazzling white blossom. The child broke the stem. Reverently he carried it into the house and gave it to his new mother!
Gifts of Spring
By Grace Ingles Frost
I sit in the shine of the benign sun, And let all the golden glory of it Fill my soul.
The greening grass is carpeting my feet, Great outstretched boughs nearby form haunts of shade; And blossoms there are blowing everywhere, Lilacs and the bride's own graceful wreath, And tulips, crimson as the lips of her I love, Are here.
My being thrills with rapture of the scene. Each quivering, rejuvenated leaf That sways to gentle rhythm of the breeze, The red-breast calling blithely to his mate, The gurgling brook that smoothly flows along, The music of the wood-dove's fluted song, These are the gifts that spring brings unto me.
The Face in the Mirror
By Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen
Lita, wheeled from the operating table at the maternity hospital after her baby was born, resembled one of the effigies on the tombs at Westminster, so still was she, so like alabaster. A great peace enveloped her; she only wanted to rest. The long torture had drained her of sensation: she was numb. It was after the woman had been purified by the fiery ordeal of motherhood that the husband usually came forward and kissed her on the brow. But Joe was not there. Where was Joe?
That question had harried Lita's mind for the past three weeks. Her young husband had not come home from his work one night, and he had never been seen or heard from since. So certain was she that some harm had befallen him that she had taken his description to the police station. The desk sergeant had smiled skeptically at her, as if lost men were not an unheard of thing. Someone had remarked that the men who disappeared were usually the ones who wanted to. But they didn't know Joe. She clipped an item from the paper about an unidentified man being found dead, taken to the General Hospital, and afterwards cremated. What if something like that had happened to her Joe? The uncertainty of it kept it mulling in her mind like a puzzle that cannot be solved.
So the young wife had come to the hospital alone. She had overheard a conversation relative to herself. "She thinks that he will come back," giggled Maggie Gulliver. "Why?" asked Mame. "Oh, she thinks that he's been injured or kidnaped or something. You remember Annie Godowski? When her husband found out that she was going to have a baby he went and left her. After she had given the baby away and gone back to her job in the candy factory, he came back. She said that he wasn't mean to her?he just went and left her." "Like to see me take a man back when he had quit me once!" said the strong-minded Mame. "When I'm through, I'm through."
A chill had struck Lita's heart. Did women really regard men like that? Not in her stratum of society. Joe had restless Viking blood in his veins; he had always been a wanderer. It had proved his love for her that he had given up his much vaunted freedom for it. All her instincts assured her that Joe
260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was all right, that he could be depended on, that he would stick. If a woman couldn't depend upon a man at such a time, what good was he?
When Lita was settled in the cool comfort of her bed, the words of the Latter-day Saint hymn book came to her mind: "When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow."
After a while they brought the baby, smelling of fresh linen and talcum powder. "He's a pretty baby," the nurse assured her, as she gave him a drink of water, via a bottle. Lita had her reservations about this as she surveyed the red wrinkled visage. (Afterwards, when she saw the others, she conceded that he was the best looking of the lot.) "He has darling hands;" she touched one tiny clenched fist. With the miracle of the baby before her in her dawning mother-consciousness, she remembered the words of a woman lecturer that she had heard a short time before. "Love," the psychologist, had declared, "is the greatest thing in the world. It can create life itself." During the noon hour some of the husbands?who were privileged Visitors?came up. Again Lita had a desolate feeling. But then she had her baby, while Wilda Bennett, the girl in the next bed, had lost hers. She lay now with her crimson kimona thrown across her shoulders like a silken poppy. When the nurse brought in an armful of roses, she told her to throw them out. Wilda, a product of the cabarets, and filled with some of the false concepts of the age, had viewed her approaching maternity as a trap in which she had been caught. But when they took her dead baby to be buried in the cemetery in the rain, she cried all night. She wanted her, warm in her arms. Her breasts ached and her. Heart hungered for the child she had not wanted. How different was the older woman on the ayaa side of Lita in the ward. She gloried that. She had passed on the torch of life and was planning to build the rest of her life around her precious baby. Some commotion was caused by the arrival of the wealthy parents of Bernice, who came to take the girl mother home. Bernice, a modern flapper, had married a boy friend instead of the older gentleman that her father and mother had picked out for her. With the advent of the grandchild, she had been forgiven. The afternoon sun lay across Lita's bed. The air bore THE FACE IN THE MIRROR 261 the scent of eucalyptus, pine, and the distant breath of the sea. Below, in some dusty looking palms, mocking birds twitt?red. A green parrot, perched in a fig tree, screeched "Grandma." Across the street, against a yellow wall, red cannas ranged themselves like an army with banners. Beyond was a splotch of purple?bougainvella. An acacia tree was in bloom. Someone had said that her baby had been born on Halloween. It was the last day of October; and the contrast between this flower-decked city of southern California and her mountain home, came to her mind. In the valleys of the mountains the harvest had been gathered and stored for the winter. The grain was garnered and threshed. Apples were picked. Even the gorgeous autumn leaves of City Creek canyon would be gone by now, and the maple trees shivering in their bareness. The tang of frost was in the air. The brave people of the mountains prepared for the advent of winter. She recalled a Halloween party of her girlhood, when. They trailed the table with blackberry leaves, and had chicken, pumpkin pie, and black currant jelly. They had cut faces out of apples and given a live black cat for the prize. They had rescued raisins from an alcohol flame, and, gathering around the fireplace heaped with blazing logs, begged the "witch" to tell their fortunes. (These had come true as much as such things generally do.) The girls had gone into a dark closet, one ata time. Each lighted a candle and beheld over her left shoulder the man she was going to marry. The game had been concocted from the old superstition that on the night that hobgoblins walk, a girl might really view such a phenomenon. Lita glanced into the mirror of her dresser. Her eyes opened wide, for there over her left shoulder was the lost Joe! A wan-looking Joe with a bandage over his head. He stood at the back of her bed. She cried out, but it was no apparition; for presently the real flesh and blood Joe knelt by her side and buried his head in her breast. Her arms went round him. A great contentment filled her. Joe had come. Back as she knew that 'he would. "My Lita!" he murmured, as he kissed her hungrily. Her hand rippled the blond hair. "What hurt you, Joe?" "Auto, I guess. Must have struck me. Concussion of the brain. Didn't know anything for a long time. Just got out of the hospital. Went to Mrs. Morris's, and was nearly crazy when she said that you had come here. You're all right?" "Sure. You must see the baby, Joe. It's a boy." "Baby! How old is it?" "A few hours. It was born this morning." "Oh Lita!" He took her in his arms. Invisible Servants of Mankind By Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young Universsty In the soil there are a great many invisible servants of man. Among these are numerous little green bodies known as algae, which save nitrogen and ammonia for plants, add valuable gases to the soil, furnish oxygen to prevent certain plant diseases, absorb moisture, and help the soil and the plant to produce when drought comes during periods of low rainfall. THE LIFE OF THE SOIL These tiny servants have not always been known. In fact the science involving the study of soil algae is a most recent one; and the part that such organisms play in the economy of the soil is not all known yet. | What are these soil algae? They are microscopic plants with various forms. When viewed under the microscope, they remind one of little kidneys, links of sausage, small intestines of animals, pieces of asparagus, piles of coins, yeast bodies, or coiled springs. In describing the various forms, one may use an almost unlimited imagination. These plants are green, containing chlorophyll, as do all the regular plants of field and garden. Chlorophyll, as you probably know, is a substance used by all green plants in making starchy foods. The carbon dioxide of the air and the water of the soil are acted upon by sunshine, which has passed through this green coloring matter, thus making starch. This starch material, made by the algae, constitutes part of the organic matter so badly needed by soils. IMPORTANT Work of SOIL ALGAE It is estimated by investigators that there are about twenty-five to thirty hundred thousand of these algae in an ounce of average soil. This means that an acre of soil six inches deep, or about what is usually stirred in plowing, contains about ninety trillion organisms, a number-so large that the imagination fails to comprehend it. When one considers the important -work these tiny algae do, even if present in such enormous numbers in the soil, one must take an attitude of wonderment. They are not all active, however. They may be found at the surface of the soil, where they are responsible for the green tinge noticed at the surface of some of our soils. When in a bad physical condition, soils do not contain so many algae as do those in better condition. In fact, the more the soil is worked, the more organic matter it has INVISIBLE SERVANTS OF MANKIND 263 incorporated, and the better it is plowed, cultivated, and rotated, the more plentifully these organisms develop. It is a good thing to encourage the growth of these organisms for they add to the soil certain material that ls needed for good crop production. The following are some of the soil benefits derived from soil algae: Western soils are replenished with the organic matter they lack as a source of energy for bacteria. Nitrogen bacteria, essential to good plant growth, are supplied with large quantities of energy from the algae. Soil algae draw upon the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere and the water of the soil; then, with the aid of the sun, they make starch, which contains sun-energy. These starch bodies are later worked upon by the nitrogen bacteria. Thus, by aid of these algae, nitrogen and humus are added to the soil. ALGAE PRODUCE THE Precious NITRATES It is claimed by the Colorado experiment station workers that the nitre spots of Colorado, spots where the nitrates accumulate in such large quantities that they become alkaline in their effects, are due to nitrogen-fixing organisms. Some people criticize these workers for claiming that these nitre spots are due to bacteria rather than to alkaline accumulations; because, say the critics, from where would come the energy necessary to do so much work? The Colorado workers answer that the energy?the starch materials furnished by these algae?may easily be the source of the nitrogen _ bacteria. Be that as it may, students of soil algae feel sure that these green bodies aid in producing much of the organic matter needed by bacterial and growing plants. Nitrogen and ammonia are often in the soil in a form that is easily lost if growing plants do not use it immediately. The soil algae draw upon this easily lost nitrogen material and hold it for the plant to use later on. Certain diseases of plants flourish in the absence of oxygen, a disease of rice being very noticeable. In the regions where rice is grown, it has been found that if these little soil algae are encouraged to grow, the oxygen that is given off at the time the starch is being made by the green chlorophyll, mixes with the water in the spot where the rice disease is developing and kills the germs. (It may be that these soil algae are responsible, in at least a small way, for the freedom from disease among our ordinary plants grown on fertile soils where many soil algae are found. There are other reasons why plants resist disease a little more effectively on fertile soils than on non-fertile ones; but the algae probably accomplish much of this result. Soil algae absorb water quickly and lose water slowly. They even take advantage of the dew in the early morning, and in this 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE way increase the water of the soil. They may thus help the soil to be carried over short periods of drought. ALGAE AS Soil-MAKERS Another interesting thing about these little organisms is the fact that they are among the first agencies to attack rocks and start the decomposition which finally results in soil. We are told that after the great volcanic outburst of Krakatoa in 1883, the first organisms to attack the cinders wer? these microscopic algae. Algae are jelly-like and absorb much water. When they died, they remained attached to the cinders, thus providing a basis of organic material upon which other organisms of a higher nature could work, Finally, large plants grew, and broke-the rock-substance to pieces. It is really remarkable how many interesting bits of nature are at work. Our knowledge of the everyday world is indeed very limited. Particularly is this the case regarding the soil world. A little information at times regarding this all important substance, the soil, the stuff upon which all life depends, will not be unimportant if only to develop an appreciation of it. However, there is a practical phase to most of the important activities in nature. Consider the algae working for us. They are present in great numbers, and like the bacteria, they want man to make conditions favorable for their growth. They demand better cultivated soils, fall-plowed lands, well-manured soils, and crop rotations. The more we prepare the ground for plant growth, the more favorable it is for them. And if they are there and healthy they will do their part in making the farmer's crop a profitable one. A Carnation By E. Heloise Merkley Have you, O Florist, a carnation here, That's fair enough and sweet enough to tell My message unto her I love so well? One blossom, white and pure, for mother dear, Erect and tall and strong to symbolize The strength she's given me: yet dainty, so, And tender like her gentleness I know, With fragrance, sweet as love from her dear eyes. One blossom, white as her pure spirit's truth And beautiful as her soul's radiant youth, And richly green and strong of leaf and stem, The petals holding in the heart of them This tribute that my dumb heart aches with here, All reverence and love, for mother dear. Ordinary Mothers Make an Extraordinary Meeting By Alveretta S. Engar The wide-awake bishop of the ward sat on the stand in Sunday School, looking over the vast congregation, many of whom were mothers (as it was a special Mother's Day program), and deliberately selected from the group five mothers to give talks in the evening service of the regular sacrament meeting. At the evening meeting he said he thought mothers should take part in the meetings oftener, as when they were assigned to do anything it was prepared well and thoroughly; and though they were curtailed somewhat in public speaking, they amply made up for it at home. The first speaker was the mother of a family of little folks. She wondered if the bishop's words would stand unquestioned in her case, for what with preparing the meals for the family, tending to the needs of the children, supplying the demands of father, and entertaining company since Sunday School, she had managed to steal about five minutes time in which to prepare her talk. She was happy in her motherhood and was thankful that her mother did not decide she had all the children she could care for when her family numbered five or six, or seven or eight, or nine or ten, or ten or eleven; otherwise, she would not be here to bless us with her presence. She read several poems from Edgar A. Guest, appropriate for the occasion. A young mother, addressing the interested congregation, said that when she looked at those aged mothers who have been so loyal to their calling, she was proud of her motherhood and received daily inspiration from her mother's picture. It hangs over the kitchen sink, where so much of her time is spent. Then, a pioneer, a mother of sixteen children, arose, and related some of her experiences. She said, "When I was married, it took us four days with an ox team to go from here to Salt Lake. When we got home, we didn't have much of a home, nor much to go into it. We carded the wool, spun the yarn, and made our clothes. I had to make my husband's suit, too. It sure looked nice. When we went to a dance, sometimes the men had one pant leg up over their high topped boots, and one down, but we sure had a good time. I have had sixteen children and I am proud of them. I have been fifty-four years getting them off to school. If you should have gone to the door of our garage this morning and looked in, you would believe my children love
266 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
me, for there was a fine new car with a bow of ribbon stuck on it for Mother's Day." A little mother gave the following testimony with a decided foreign, though highly pleasing accent: "About twenty-five years ago, in Dresden, Germany, when I was just a young girl, I was very ill; the missionaries were around me praying that I might get well. The final word came that in order to get better, a change of climate was necessary; and then I realized the full extent of a mother's love, for a few months later my dear mother began packing up things for her only daughter to be sent seven thousand miles away, perhaps never to see her again.
"The day finally came, with the promise to return in ten years. My mother had pretty brown hair; but the day I left I noticed that there were streaks of gray, which made me realize what my mother must have gone through to let her only daughter go. I came out here, was happily married in the temple, and always planning when I could return to my mother. At times I would get quite homesick, so we would go up on temple hill, overlooking this beautiful valley, and would dream of the time when I could go back; and oh! What a happy reunion it would be. But, sorry to say, ten years later, when I was going to return, sadness had come into my life. My dear companion was taken, and I had three little children to take care of.
"On the day I was married I met a missionary who was also going to be married. We became life-long friends, and instead of returning myself to see my mother, I saw this couple going on a pleasure trip to Germany. I had sent a letter telling mama when they would start and on which steamer they would go; I also told her that they were tall, thin, dark people like the majority of Americans. My mother has a little flower store; there she sells the most beautiful roses, which she gets from Italy the whole year round. When this couple opened her door, she knew them for she named them by their names! And with tears in her eyes my dear mother welcomed them as she would have done her own daughter. I never shall forget the day when this couple came back. It was in the evening and I had just put my little children to bed. While the travelers were telling me of their wonderful trip, it seemed as if I was living my childhood days all over again; and now I am going to tell you something, my brethren and sisters. I sat there listening; and the tears?no, they were not tears, it was water that was streaming down my face, for the longing to see my mother was so great.
"All hopes have been given up of ever returning to see her, but the Lord works in a mysterious way his wonders to perform, for the visit which I should have made years ago, I am in hopes
ORDINARY MOTHERS 267
will be made by my son when he is called on his mission to my homeland, and our daily prayers are that the dear mother, who tearfully waved goodbye to her only daughter, may be kept well and strong to shower her mother-love upon her grandson."
The two remaining mothers related incidents in the experience of rearing their children, in which they had been led and assisted by faith in an overruling Providence, in directing them in the path, which, so hard to climb at the time, had later proved to be the successful one.
At the close of the meeting, young people and old felt that they had been banqueted at a spiritual feast.
Mary Ann Davies
HEMSLEY AND SEVEN DAUGHTERS
When less than sixteen years of age, Mary Ann Davies heard the "Mormon" elders in South Wales. She was later baptized and confirmed a member of the Church. Soon after her baptism she worked in ice water up to her elbows to earn money to come to Zion. While working in the home of Orson Pratt's son to earn money to help her parents, her brothers and sisters, to come to Utah, she met Richard Hemsley. Later they were married in the Logan Temple. She is the mother of fourteen children, ten girls and four boys. She knows what some of the hardships are in clearing sagebrush land and developing a new country. Besides helping to educate and rear her family in the path of righteousness, she has helped to support her husband and four sons in the mission field. The picture shows Mrs. Hemsley and her seven daughters now living.
Speaking of Girls
By Harrison R. Merrill
When I was a boy I was unsophisticated enough to believe that the dainty manner in which that tantalizing curl hung down on Mary's forehead or protruded from the corner of Josephine's cap was entirely accidental. I know better now. Charming girls are made as well as born; in fact, I think they are mostly made. And I don't mind that in the least, provided the job of making is well and artistically done.
The Associated Women's Organization of Brigham Young University, directed by Miss Caroline Eyring, president, and Miss Audrey Ostlund, vice-president, has been attempting, through a series of programs during the year, to assist B. Y. U. girls to de-
MISS CAROLINE EYRING MISS AUDREY OSTLUND
velop charm of personality. I like their ideas, for they are beginning, not with the curls and other exterior decorations of the young lady, but with the interior decorations of the skull?the brain. They believe that the quality called charm must have its roots deep if it is to continue under close acquaintance to be charm.
The climax of this drive for personality will come on May 3, Girls' Day. An elaborate program, which will begin with the Girls' play on the evening of May 2, and end with the Girls' Day Ball on May 3, has been prepared. One of the features of the occasion will be the banquet at noon on Friday, May 3, when eight
SPEAKING OF GIRLS 269
ladies chosen for their charm in various fields of activity will be special guests of honor. These guests are: Alice Louise Reynolds, chosen for her intellectual charm; Elsie C. Carroll, for her sympathy; Jennie Brimhall Knight, for her culture; Stella S. Harris, for her companionable understanding; Sina Holbrook, for her home interest; Achsa Eggertsen Paxman, for her public service; Lydia Candland, for her cheerfulness; and Margaret Summerhays, for her artistic development.
This activity on the part of these young ladies organized at Brigham Young University leads me to believe that they know the value of the mythical thing Mrs. Glynn named IT and that they are out after IT. After all, no amount of form or color or curls can make up for that internal light which shines out of the eyes and speaks from the lips; therefore I am of the opinion that the young co-eds are on an interesting trail which eventually will lead them up to beautiful living.
I am only sorry that the women have become the stronger sex. They work so assiduously for personal feminine charm, and do it so openly, that they have "sold" the idea to many of the young men who, instead of attempting to become more masculine and more commanding, have aped the ways of their sisters and have become perfumed and powdered shadows of their progenitors.
Speaking of girls, I am convinced that they will continue to rule the world. From the back seat it may be, or from the home possibly, but rule it they will, at least all of the world really worth while.
The Stork
By Mrs. Grace Woodbury
He's a queer old bird; he seems to thrive In climates everywhere; Be it hot or cold, or damp or dry, He doesn't seem to care.
From Canada to Florida, From Seattle to New York; He flies and flies, yet never tires? This queer old bird, the Stork.
You'd think that when the day was warm, And other birds were out, That then would be the time he'd flap His wings and fly about.
270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But no; I've often noticed that When he's out for a lark, Delivering babies 'round to folks, He'd rather have it dark.
Some days, oh, how his bill does ache! His wings are tired, too; Of babies yet to be bestowed, There still are quite a few.
'Tis then he doubles up his load, And hurries like the winds; That's why it is some folks get left, While other folks get twins.
Of course, this stork is rather old, And his habits seem quite set; His memory may be faulty, too; Quite often he'll forget.
That 'twas the shortest while ago He called on you; and then He'll up and bring another one? Six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
It's funny how the poorest folks Are honored by this bird. He keeps a bringing babies round, Till he's brought them 'most a herd
Of the nicest kind of boys and girls, With smiles and joy and health; He wants to make it up to them For being short on wealth.
Today we bring the honor due To this welcome, generous bird; For over Nichole's happy home His flapping wings are heard.
He is coming with the springtime, With the Robin and the Wren. Let us make his welcome royal, so He'll be glad to come again.
The Arrow of Chance
By Henry F. Kirkham
Jupiter, the chief god, slowly paced the golden room that looked forth upon the glories of Mt. Olympus. That his meditations were not productive of pleasant thoughts, was evident by the cynical glance he bestowed upon the others?the assembled lesser gods. Quoth he, "Nobody takes any stock in our pretensions, these days. Mars and Mammon are the only ones that really earn their salt. I ought to close out the corporation and shut up shop, for all the good we accomplish. But ere I do, I am going to have one more fling at omnipotence."
Reaching for the great bow of Diana, he dipped a silver arrow in the sacred fire. He then walked to one of the giant windows of the glittering palace, fitted the arrow to the bow, and, with a merry laugh, launched the missile into space. Higher and higher, the shining arrow sped, throwing a trail of flame like some bright shooting star. Higher and higher, until, as a single point of light, it disappeared within the blue vault of heaven.
Who, in that little village, nestling by the fair countryside of an Irish dell, could have even dreamed of the strange fate that thus drew nigh from the silent space of night?
Patrick O'Rooke was almost moved to tears as he pondered on the sad state of his love affairs. For not only was Patrick the butt of all the village wits because of his trick of day-dreaming; he was, also, afflicted with a certain unreadiness of speech, which rendered abortive all his attempts to wax eloquent in his attempt to win the heart of Mary Malone. Not that Patrick lacked charm in the eyes of the fair Mary. His curly hair and manly bearing could not fail to make an impression upon any romantic girl. But how could she openly surrender her love to one who was uniformly derided?
Now, this strange awkwardness of demeanor was altogether foreign to Irish traditions. Patrick's mother stoutly maintained that the whole trouble arose from Patrick's habit of roaming the nearby woods, when not hanging about the hut of the fair Mary. Certainly the sylvan denizens who live therein, watch for just such chances to ensnare the unwary and win them for the forest ways. Moreover, Patrick was in no wise troubled while wandering amid the woodland settings he so dearly loved. Not at all. Each
272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
flower, each tree, each purring brook, spoke to him in the language of poetic fancy. The unnatural inhibition, which ordinarily dried the flow of his spirits, faded away in the solitude of his kingdom of dreams. Indeed, a perfect flood of delightful imagery often filled his being, in which he wove airy pictures of manful conquest untrammeled by the painful limitations of his usual life. Did this, in truth, prove the fairy spells for which his mother contended?
But, alas! In the company of his kind or more especially in the presence of his enamorate, all these enchanting powers vanished completely. He could not voice the words of love he so longed to express; he could only stutter in the manner of one who has lost his wits,?a manner that invited the laughter of others and the embarrassment of his beloved.
Hence the doleful appearance of Patrick as he contemplated the state of his fortune in the list of love. To make matters worse, there had entered those same lists one other suitor for the hand of Mary; no other, in fact, than Tim Flinn, the son of the richest man in the little Irish village. Also, Tim possessed all that Patrick did not in the matter of speech; and, in addition, Tim promised Mary the luxury of material things not in the power of poor Patrick to give?the visions of his woodland fancies, notwithstanding.
However, there were some who claimed that the intentions of Tim Flinn were anything but honest. Perhaps the virtuous Mary sensed this state of affairs, for she would give but scant comfort to Tim's ardent quest. Still, there was no telling what might have been the outcome of this unequal contest in the long run. The probable result of it was wormwood to the soul of Patrick. It drove him oftener to his kingdom of romance. There he could bend fate to a softer outline than the cold facts presented. In this delightful realm he could expel his hated rival with a jest, or sing such songs of love that not even a siren could resist. It is even related that, moved by the sight of fairies dancing in the moonlight, he was inspired to compose a tender bit of verse, which he tucked beneath the door of Mary. But unfortunately he overlooked the necessary signature, so that Mary credited the effort to the ready Tim, who made no attempt to set Mary right, you may be sure.
Yet, in spite of all these set-backs in his suit, Patrick clung steadfastly to his purpose. He had an inward conviction that in some mysterious way there would come a day of triumph?a day of vindication that would wipe away all the months of humiliation in one glorious victory. He knew that Mary really loved only him, could he but assert himself after the manner of other Irish people. He felt that for the transformation a sort of miracle was necessary, and continued to hope against hope that the miracle would presently happen.
THE ARROW OF CHANCE 273
And happen it did! Happen, moreover, under the most weird of circumstances?coincident with the natal day of the renowned St. Patrick, after whom the faithful Patrick was himself named. Of course the birthday of the Saint was justly celebrated in Ireland and in no place more joyfully than in this same Irish village. After the religious ceremonies, a fine ball was always on the program. To this ball came all the lads and lassies, dressed in their best finery; for it was truly a splendid opportunity to improve the affairs of the heart, and St. Patrick himself was reputed to have had a fondness for all true lovers.
Perhaps, in a measure, these facts account for the miracle that came to pass; albeit, the heathen gods seem to have had the major share in the results. It was customary, in this village affair, for all the young men and women to attend the ball separately. Consequently, a number of the swains, including Tim Flinn, had arranged to meet at a certain place near the crossroads and repair thence, jointly to the ball. But Tim, who, though he openly flouted the suit of Patrick, secretly had strong misgivings as to its outcome, had prepared a plan for this occasion that looked to the complete overthrow of his rival. It consisted of a clever snare that would make Patrick his own victim and executioner at the same time.
At a dark spot, previously selected for its muckiness, he caused to be planted a stout stake, attaching thereto a small rope with plenty of slack. Presently to this spot came Patrick, dressed in his best suit of clothes and lost, as usual, in a romantic dream in which the good St. Patrick and sweet Mary Malone were exquisitely blended. He was greeted by the conspirators effusively, "Hullo," shouted Tim. "You're just in time for a bit of sport. We've all agreed to run a race to the meeting house. The first one gets his pick of the lassies for the dance. I've been hearing that you're after boasting of your fleetness of foot. Now, here is a fine chance to show the lads and get Mary Malone for the first dance."
It so happened that Patrick was rather proud of his ability as a foot-racer. The note of scorn in Tim's voice decided him promptly to accept the challenge. Of course, while he set himself for the race, one of the party slipped the noose of the rope about his ankle. Naturally, while Patrick started well enough, he came to a rapid and ignominious end. With a crash that shook the breath out of him and a splash that covered his only decent suit of clothes with mire, Patrick landed full in the murky spot that had been so craftily designed for the purpose. With derisive shouts of laughter, Tim, and the rest of the plotters, sped away in the darkness, leaving the luckless Patrick to extricate himself as best he could.
Patrick had certainly touched the valley of despair. He had,
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in truth, scarcely the spirit left to untie the rope that had been the cause of his downfall; for how could he now in his mud-bespattered garments, present himself at the ball. Still, the thought of his beloved Mary in the arms of his hated rival was the most bitter blow of all. It really seemed to him, as he lay stretched upon the damp earth, that life was a huge mockery, after all, and that henceforth nothing was worth while.
But, as Patrick thus bitterly meditated, out of the blackness of the night loomed a bright point of light. Like a splendid shooting star and with a humming note of exquisite beauty, the strange object darted downward, swift and sure towards the prostrate form upon the ground. In vain Patrick, noting the direction of its flight, sought frantically to avoid it. Squirm as he would, the descending missile followed, until, with one sure dive, it smote poor Patrick full in the breast.
Here, however, we have the strangest story ever told! Although transfixed by a great silver arrow, Patrick did not experience the slightest pain or discomfort. On the contrary, from the very moment of the impact, he thrilled to the very center of his being with such an access of bodily vigor and such a surge of exalted emotions as no mere mortal had ever known before. Indeed, he was almost suffocated by the tide of new sensations that encompassed him about as a golden cloud. All trace of diffidence, all awkwardness of demeanor, all impotence of language, vanished before the wave in the space of a moment, to be replaced by a sense of god-like power. He was full, nay, saturated, by the sacred fire from that far Olympus. Jupiter himself would have been satisfied with the results had he been present to observe the transformation.
With a cry of joy, Patrick leaped to his feet. More than this, he actually bounded several yards in the air to show his disregard of human limitations. He surely did cut a fascinating and unusual figure, for the outward metamorphosis had been as complete as the inward change. Gone were the mud-bespattered garments, replaced by as quaint a combination as could be well conceived?a sort of compromise between an Irish king and an ancient Grecian sovereign, the blue coat and green vest of the one and the purple robe and sandals of the other. In short, Patrick, the erstwhile village simpleton, had suddenly become akin to the gods themselves. He had entered, in fact, within the very portals of his kingdom of dreams.
In the midst of his wild capers, Patrick remembered both the ball and the Machiavellian work of his enemies. Now, indeed, he would have his revenge! What a sad awakening lay in store for Tim and his friends, could they but have seen the transformation of their victim. That the time of their rejoicing was near to an end, Patrick resolved as he plucked forth the arrow and held it aloft as a sort of scepter. With this resolve he sped, or rather
THE ARROW OF CHANCE 275
flew, towards the place wherein the conspirators in high glee awaited his appearance.
And you may be sure that the confusion was thorough and complete when, in place of the woe-begone and dilapidated halfwit they had been posted to expect, there stalked into the ballroom this most amazing creature?Patrick, to be sure, but oh! So magnificent a Patrick! No trace of timidity, no hint of restraint, marked his regal bearing as he strode through the dancers with the assurance of the manner born. Never before was so strange a spectacle seen in all Ireland. The music of the fiddlers came to an abrupt end as Patrick made his weird progress towards the huddled group wherein stood the astonished Tim, the fickle Mary reposing on his arm.
Patrick gave Tim but one withering glance of scorn, "A fine little joke you played on me, Tim Flinn," he chuckled, "but I know a better one. Out of my sight, you rogue, and may the devil fly away with you." Legend has it, too, that at this command, Tim fairly flew out of the window with some dark shadow at his heels. At any rate, he was no more seen thereabouts.
Moreover, legend further affirms that Patrick didn't stop at the discomfort of Tim. Not a bit of it! "On with the dance," he shouted, seizing Mary around the waist and swinging her high in the air. The rest of the dancers, under an enchantment they could in no wise resist, followed suit. Even the fiddlers fell beneath that mad spell, so that they played the wildest music that ever was heard. Wilder and wilder, they fiddled, and higher and higher the dancers danced. Indeed, they were, for the most part, nearer the ceiling than the floor. Finally they all whirled out of the room into the outer air, and so, on to the Fairy Ring in the woodlands, the beloved abode of Patrick's dreams.
There, under the silver moonlight, they continued the weird steps of the ballroom. It is said that they were even joined by those sylvan creatures so dear to the heart of all true Irishmen. Here, also, Patrick whispered sweet words into the willing ears of Mary Malone. Marvelous words they were, too, filled with all those delightful poetic fancies which Patrick had longed so vainly to express.
Perhaps they all could have been dancing beneath the moonlight to this day, if some of the older folks, left behind, had not bethought themselves of the good Father, and got him out of his cozy bed, and had him say the words that broke the unlawful spell. At any rate, presently, the bewildered dancers came trooping back from the woodlands. That is all but Patrick and Mary. Many contend that they dance there still. Others hold that they later paid a hurried visit to that same good Father, and thence across the seas to the fair country of America. But this is sure?Patrick had come to his Triumph at last!
Pioneers
A LANTERN IN HER HAND?BESS STREETER ALDRICH
By Lais V. Hales
Bess Streeter Aldrich has written another pioneer novel. Her mother and father, who were pioneers of Iowa, were full of the experiences of those early days. Mrs. Aldrich was steeped in an "atmosphere of reminiscences of river floods, storms, drought, ox-team trails, log cabins, and snow drifting onto beds." One day Mrs. Aldrich remarked to her very aged mother how sorry she was that her mother had endured such a hard life in youth. Her mother replied, "Save your pity. We had the best time in the world." Suddenly it occurred to Mrs. Aldrich that she ought to write a novel embodying just that spirit?the hardships sustained by "courage and love and a sense of humor." So she wrote "A Lantern in Her Hand," which she says she would have written even had she known that not a single copy would be sold. It is her bit in honor of the pioneer mother.
Abbie Mackenzie was born in 1845 in the little village of Chicago, moving with her parents to Iowa, when she was eight years old. A combination of solid Irish and Scotch aristocrat, she had the physical attributes of the peasant and the mental traits of the aristocrat?the warm heart of the Irish and the steadfastness of the Scotch. In 1862 Will Deal went to fight for President Lincoln; and Abbie realized, as she said goodbye, that her heart went with him. When Will returned, they were married and went to Nebraska to live. Days of untold hardship and misery followed. But when spring came on the Nebraska prairie, Abbie went happily about her work, "one baby in her arms and the other at her skirts, courage her lode-star and love her guide,?a song upon her lips and a lantern in her hand."
Hard years filled with dreams, disappointments, disillusion, now followed. Then appeared the little school house and unpainted church; and the wagons now came west never to return to the East. Other children came to Abbie and Will; and as they grew, Abbie relinquished her many dreams and lived again in her children. In the promise of her children's accomplishments, she forgot her own disappointments. Then, one day, Will quietly died and the light seemed to pass out of her life. She recalled what Will had said of death when John was so dangerously ill. To him death was natural?"wild geese flying over?cattle coming home?birds to their nests?leaves to the winter mold?the last sleep. They were all natural; and yet of all
PIONEERS 277
of them all, we feared only the sleep." When she had told him that she couldn't stand it if he were taken away, he had replied, "Yes, Abbie girl, you could. It's the people who have loved and then lost their love?who have failed each other in some way, who couldn't stand it. Nothing could take away the past from us. If I were taken, I would go on with you, remembering all you have been to me." And now Will was dead.
After dark days and nights of doubt, hope and belief triumphed. Will came to seem very near and helpful. Time went on; there were years of almost uninterrupted success, and there were years when the "crops were still-born in the womb of nature." Abbie's children, growing to manhood and womanhood, went out into the world to live their varied lives. One day Abbie sat down to write of her feeling during all these hard years on the prairie, only to find that she must relinquish this dream along with the many others. The things she wanted to say, she could not. So she went about her home?the home that she and Will had so fondly built, making it more beautiful for the home comings of her children. For, thought Abbie, an old home ought to "stand like a mother with open arms."
At seventy, Abbie didn't feel narrow, even though she had hardly been out of her own yard. She felt broad; for had she not "seen cathedrals in the snow on the Lombardy poplars, the sun set when the clouds had been piled on the edge of the prairie?" She had married, borne children, and looked into the face of death; and when you've experienced all these things, your spirit has traveled far although the body has been confined. As Abbie thought about it all, it seemed to her that "love was a light that you carry. At first, childish happiness keeps it lighted; and, after that, romance. Then motherhood lights it and then duty?and maybe after that, sorrow. After that, service lights it." To Abbie, love was a "lantern in the hand of women."
Shortly before Abbie died, her children all gathered at the old home. Far into the evening they sat and talked. In their midst, "rocking and smiling, sat a little old lady who had brought them up with a song upon her lips and a lantern in her hand. All the years she had cooked, patched, and washed for them, she had dreamed dreams; and her children were fulfilling these dreams. They were doing all the things she had wanted to do and couldn't. Not only for her children, but, like all other true pioneers, she had dreamed dreams into the country. She had dreamed the towns, the cities, the homes, the factories, the churches, the schools, and they were all here now. And as Abbie looked back, she found that "some of the realities seemed dreams * * * * but the dreams, the dreams seemed all real."
One day something happened to Abbie Deal. Late in July on
278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a late afternoon, "while suppers cooked and children of the north end of Cedartown played 'Run, Sheep, Run' in her yard, old lady Deal died. A neighbor woman found her lying across the foot of the bed, fully dressed, while the slice of meat which she had been cooking, burned to a crisp."
This is Bess Streeter Aldrich's new story. It is told just as her other stories have been told?with simplicity, with beauty, with appreciation for the humble things and thoughts of life. Though Mrs. Aldrich senses fully and portrays truthfully the tragedy and soul-breaking hardships of pioneer life, her books are optimistic and uplifting. We feel that pioneer life was good and full of rich reward for those who lived it, provided they were full of cheerful courage and sturdy faith. Abbie Deal was the ideal pioneer woman and
"Because the road was steep and long, And through a dark and lonely land, God set upon her lips a song And put a lantern in her hand."
Cross-Sections of Utah History
Among all the books, dealing with past events, that I have read in years the livest is "The Romance of an Old Playhouse," by George D. Pyper?an account of the rise and history of the famous theatre recently torn down in Salt Lake City, to make way for modern business. The book begins, solidly enough, with a calm, lucid statement of the religious background to the romantic history that follows. There is "Nauvoo the Beautiful," the "Drama of the Plains," and a chapter on the Old Bowery, in which the very earliest plays were enacted. Then comes an account of the Social Hall, with its reminiscences of quaint grand balls and stirring dramas, the programs reproduced. The Camp Floyd Theatre and then Bowring's soon lead up to the building and dedication of the famous playhouse, "the cathedral in the desert," the Salt Lake Theatre.
There follow chapters of absorbing interest, each a history complete in itself, and each a faithful cross-section of the life of the times which it portrays. Here are the early players?the Irwins and "Brigham's big ten," his ten lovely daughters who appeared as fairies in a celebrated play of the times. Great actors?George Pauncefort, Maude Adams, Julia Dean Hayne, and others?form the chief subjects of successive chapters. George D. Chaplain in one place remarks that he gave to Janauschek, who was his ideal actress, a little dog, which he said had been given to him by Mrs. Scott Siddons. "At Janauschek's death,
CROSS-SECTIONS OF UTAH HISTORY 279
the dog came back to me and I have it yet, only it doesn't run about much now, because it's stuffed." Such homely incidents without number make the book invaluable.
We have often been told of late that the best history is that which gives the most vivid portrayal of the daily lives of the people, rather than of kings, battles, and politics. Judged by this standard, "The Romance of an Old Playhouse" is first-class history. Every chapter is a cross-section of the past not merely complete in itself, but filled with interesting incidents of both the plain and the remarkable people. Humor and pathos are so mingled as to keep the reader passing from smiles to tears, and to hold his attention with the magic power of actual, often dramatic, pictures of life. Open the book where you will, and it offers a new set of incidents fairly tingling with animation and reality. In the entire 342 pages, there is not a dull chapter. The sayings of great men of the time; the wit and wisdom of philosophers, the comment of musicians, actors, actresses; the parts they took, the history that their names and acts reveal; the numerous comic episodes; the deep and touching emotion; and withal, the unmistakable air of sober truth that permeates the entire volume?these are elements that impart to the book a thrilling interest and a moving actuality that hold the attention and stimulate the imagination. Here one gets clear and definite images and ideas of just what the people thought, did, and hoped in those earlier days.
I find it impossible really to review the book, for it contains so many diverse histories. But it is the sort of volume that one likes to pick up at odd moments, and to read anew, as "with laughter and with weeping still is the story told" of how well the people of this region managed to live throughout all the days of "the hard times."
Notes From The Field
Norwegian Mission. The following interesting message comes from sisters in the northern land: "Of course the work here is difficult at times, because everything must be translated; nevertheless we are doing our best to follow the outlines and instructions sent to us from the General Board. These helps have been greatly appreciated by the organizations and the northern sisters are most willing at all times to adopt the suggestions made in the Relief Society Magazine?a fact that has encouraged very much the missionaries." Last Spring
OFFICERS OF NORWEGIAN RELIEF SOCIETY
one of the branches put on the little play, "Past Echoes and Present Pep." While there were many difficulties, the production as a whole was greatly enjoyed, and was followed by the request that it be put on again.
Norway missionaries are so few that it is seldom any pictures from Norway are printed in Church magazines. The following is an exception: There are now thirteen missionaries for the whole of Norway, three of whom have been there over two years. In order to maintain the work, unusual efforts have to be made; and more missionaries who have had experience in the organizations at home are needed. These sisters urge that those who are going to Norway to take charge should have as thorough an understanding as possible of Relief Society and Genealogical work. In this field there are wonderful opportunities for advancement. The
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281
people are interested in the Gospel, and attend the meetings regularly. In the Oslo branch there are between fifty and sixty strangers who attend the Sunday meetings, and about forty who come frequently to the Relief Society meetings. Certainly Norway is a promising field for activity.
Danish Mission. "On our Annual Day, March 17, 1929, we had the first Relief Society conference ever held in the Danish mission. During the past three years we have held socials in the evening, with appropriate programs and refreshments in honor of the anniversary event; but this year a conference, with afternoon and evening sessions, was held in all the organized branches. A uniform program was carried out, many strangers present expressing surprise at what they had seen and heard. Members furnished all numbers on the program, developing their subjects far beyond the expectations of the missionaries.
The mission motto for the year is 'Peace in Our Homes, Relief Society, and Branches.' This motto was adopted at our mission presidents' conference in Paris last September, and makes peace in all its phases our main subject. The first organization at home and here in the mission, the purposes and aims of the association, social problems and how the sisters can best help deliver the gospel message to the world?these were among the subjects treated.
"The Danish sisters were elated with the success of the organizations, not only in Denmark but throughout the Scandinavian mission. The reports given show clearly that the Relief Society is performing a notable work. Owing to local conditions, methods here are different from those in Zion. Relief Society meetings are held each Friday evening. The sisters conduct the meetings, but many strangers, especially men, are usually present. In conformity with the spirit of the country and with its well developed program of education, Gospel subjects are taught and reading is conducted before large classes, the great majority of the group taking part. The program gives little opportunity for social and literary work; but is balanced with musical numbers and readings. Twice monthly, sewing meetings are held, where subjects pertaining to health and morality, the observance of the Ten Commandments, the Word of Wisdom, and matters pertaining especially to Relief Society work are discussed. On the second Monday of each month a report meeting is held. To conduct the meetings more nearly in accordance with the plan outlined for those at home would be difficult because new members are continually coming in, requiring instruction from the beginning."
German-Austrian Mission. From this mission field comes a most inspiring program of activity. During the past year the records of all Relief Society
282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
organizations have been put on a uniform basis. The aim of each organization is to have a history of the Relief Society from the beginning, and copied in the new roll and minute book. Interest is wide awake and enthusiasm manifest.
This year's course of study consists of: first week, Book of Mormon, readings and testimonies; second week, work and business; third week, nutrition; fourth week, literature.
"In searching for the best and latest material for the lessons on nutrition," writes Sister Valentine, "I have met a number of prominent doctors who are writing on this subject. Among them is Dr. M. Vogel, Director of Nutrition in the Hygiene Museum at Dresden. In conversation with him I told him about the Word of Wisdom, which was given to our Church in 1833. He became interested and asked for an article about it. An article was prepared and sent to him. In December we received a copy of Hygienischer Wegweiser, quite a select monthly magazine published by three noted doctors as literature for the museum. This number contains our article. We made leaflets of the article, one of which I am enclosing. Dr. Vogel has asked for the information concerning the fruits of teaching the Word of Wisdom; we are glad, of course, to prepare it for him. In connection with our nutrition lessons, we are using a booklet written by him.
The work of the visiting teachers will be emphasized here in the coming year, keeping in mind the message that Sister Widtsoe gave each Relief Society, that of maintaining peace in the home, the Relief Society, and the branch. To assist the visiting teachers a teachers' visiting book was printed during December."
BROKEN TOYS
By Mary C. Martineau
They lay before me, on the floor, Their precious broken little toys, And consternation looks at me From saddened eyes?my little boys.
We gather up and try to think That maybe they can mended be, Though some, I know, e'en at a glance, Have done their last to furnish glee.
And as my little fellows sleep, My mind counts up my joys of yore That mended are; but some too late Were loved, and never come the more.
Relief Society Annual Report 1928
Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT 1928
CASH RECEIPTS
Balance on hand January 1, 1928: Charity Fund................$ 32,066.88 General Fund................. 121,978.07 Wheat Trust Fund............ 17,749.77 Total Balance, January 1...$171,794.72
Donations Received During 1928 Charity Fund................$ 90,284.18 General Fund................ 123,736.33 Annual Dues................. 22,697.68 Other Receipts.............. 66,098.98 Total Receipts............$302,817.17
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts..................$474,611.89
CASH DISBURSEMENTS
Paid for Charitable Purposes...$100,836.76 Paid for General Purposes..... 136,206.72 Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office... 3,194.63 Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards. 25,835.85 Paid for Other Purposes...... 32,328.48
Total Disbursements......$298,402.44
Balance on Hand December 31, 1928: Charity Fund................$ 32,872.28 General Fund................ 128,737.85 Wheat Trust Fund............ 14,599.32 Total Balance, December 31. $176,209.45 Total Disbursements and Balance on Hand...... $474,611.89 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ASSETS Balance on Hand December 31, 1928 All Funds......Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office.. Other Invested Funds......Value of Real Estate and Bldgs. 237,608.21 Value of Furniture and Fixtures. 61,687.31 Other Assets... 26,333.40 Stake Board, Cash Balances on December 31, 1928...... 28,148.84 Other Assets.... 51,476.32 Total Assets....... LIABILITIES; Indebtedness...$ 1,164.33 Balance Net Assets......$961,964.64 Stake Board Indebtedness.... 202.54 Balance Net Assets.....1. 79,422.62 Total Net Assets and Liabilities....... STATISTICS MEMBERSHIP: January 1, 1928: Executive and Special Officers.. 10,377 Visiting Teachers........ 20,658 Members.....31,371 Total Membership, January 1. Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year Decrease: Removed or Resigned.......7,125 Died....838 Total Decrease.....Membership: December 31, 1928: Executive and Special Officers.... 10,463 Visiting Teachers........55 20,948 Members.....31,139 Total Membership, Dec. 31.. $175,620.19. 402,127.14 59,752,72 $963,128.97 $ 79,625.16 $1 042,754.13 $963,128.97: $ 79,625.16 $1,042,754.13 62,406 8,107 70,513 7,963 62,550 62,550 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT The total Membership includes: General Officers and Board Members.................. 41 Stake Officers and Board Members............... 1,018 Mission Presidents and Officers........... 77 Number of Stakes.........101 Number of Missions..........27 Number of Relief Society Ward Organizations................. 1,452 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts..............10,623 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards..............105,772 Number of L. D. S. Women, non-members, eligible.............. 32,419 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken as reported........ 24,570 Number of Executive Officers Taking R. S. Magazine.......... 5,445 Number of Meetings held in Wards............. 53,137 Number of Stake Meetings held).......1,964 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held. 952: Number of Ward Conferences Held................. 1,171 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............24,775 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 700,131 Number of Families Helped........17,550 Number of Days Spent With the Sick..................52,796 Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound...................44. 189,593 Number of Days Spent in Temple Work..............133,362 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.............................. 2,535 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers..................... 5,032
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                1926        1927        1928
Paid for charitable purposes......$ 96,017.19 $100,105.39 $100,836.76 Total of present membership....... 61,627 61,820 62,550 No. of Relief Society Organizations.. 1,528 1,558 1,452 No. of Relief Society Magazines taken. 23,220 23,575 24,570 Days spent with sick.............. 51,249 52,613 52,796 Special visits to sick and homebound.. 185,007 189,302 189,593 Families helped................... 13,695 16,762 17,550 No. of visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards................. 4,511 5,002 5,032 No. of visits by Relief Society Visit- ing Teachers...................... 688,154 686,605 700,131 No. of days spent in Temple Work.. 122,031 129,368 133,362
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
STAKES MISSIONS Arizona........................ 2,100 Australia.................. 77 California.................... 1,368 Canada.................... 146 Canada........................ 1,309 Europe.................... 4,787 Colorado...................... 424 Hawaii.................... 965 Idaho......................... 7,982 Mexico.................... 163 Mexico........................ 185 New Zealand............... 501 Nevada........................ 566 Samoa..................... 308 Oregon........................ 208 South Africa.............. 54 Utah.......................... 34,904 Tahiti.................... 231 Wyoming....................... 1,979 Tonga..................... 104
Total Membership in Stakes........................ 51,025 Total Membership in Missions.. 11,525
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions.................... 62,550
(NOTE: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.)
Mausoleums
AN OLD IDEA MADE NEW
Man is a tomb-building creature, because in him alone is the soul which has in it the insistent conviction of immortality. And this conviction expresses itself not only in his religion, but artistically and objectively in the construction of tombs. The earliest records we have of the various peoples and civilizations that have disappeared in ages gone by are found in the tombs of their great. The idea is as old as civilization. The pyramids of Egypt, the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus built by Queen Artemesia in 353 B. C., the Taj Mahal at Agra?the most beautiful building in the world?are all expressions of this same idea. In our modern time the Pantheon at Paris, and Westminster Abbey, are notable examples. The story of the lives of the Pharaohs was brought vividly home to us by the discovery of their marvelously preserved bodies in their royal tombs.
In olden times and in Europe, this beautiful type of burial has been reserved for the rich and the great. It remained for American engineering enterprise to bring it within the reach of the masses. Now Salt Lake is to have a Memorial Mausoleum?a beautiful home for those we love?a community tomb wherein the body of a loved one is laid away in its own private vault, or crypt?in its entirety, as in life?to come forth in the first resurrection, after perhaps centuries of perfect preservation?even as kings of Egypt are being found, just as they were buried four thousand years ago. How beautiful! Could any one do more for the one he loves? Hardly!
Combined in this mausoleum will be a majestic dignity, an original beauty, a permanence and a temple-like structure, which will be unsurpassed?a fitting home for those who have lived well here?impressive?a cathedral of pure beauty, of noble solemnity, of restful dignity?yet, with no air of offensive pride. It is rich, even in its suggestion, yet involving no extravagant expense. It is in keeping with the desires and needs of this community and with the wishes of those who sooner or later will rest there. For those in life who have been accustomed to the best, only the best is appropriate at life's close?the Memorial Mausoleum.
SUMMER TERM OPENS Monday, June 3, and Monday, June 10
L. D. S. Business College SCHOOL IN SESSION ALL THE YEAR Enter Any Monday
When YOUR Building BURNS
There's a certain amount of comfort to know that should fire destroy your building tonight that you are covered by fire insurance. Such insurance will indemnify you for the loss incurred and allow you to rebuild without financial hardship. It's worth a good deal to have this protection in these times.
See our agent in your town
UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO. General Agents 20 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
