Shay's Cafeteria
137 South Main Street
FOR HEALTH'S SAKE!
TRY OUR SPECIAL PLATE DINNERS—
Well-Balanced Menus!
Priced 20c, 25c, 35c, 50c per plate
Served From 11 a. M. To 8 p. M.
Seven Times Champion of the World
Sent to you on Free Trial
For Sale by
Utah Power & Light Co.
And
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
McCormick-Deering Conference Visitors Welcome
We wish to extend you a very cordial invitation to visit our exhibit of Modern Power Farm Equipment.
See the new wonderful McCormick-Deering Cream Separators by all means.
Your Copy of our Educational "Farm Helps" Booklet is here at our offices, free for the asking—simply bring this Ad with you, or mail it in and we will send a booklet to you.
While in Salt Lake
International Harvester Co.
435 So. State St.
Salt Lake City
Six Sizes
PROTECT AND BEAUTIFY YOUR HOME WITH FULLER PAINTS
GLASS VARNISHES LACQUERS
PIONEER WHITE LEAD
Office and Wholesale, Corner 3rd W. And 4th So.—Store 42 E. Broadway
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
DISTRIBUTOR FOR
Sager Metal Weatherstrip
For Doors and Windows
ROLSCREENS — Ideal for Casements. The World's Finest Screen.
BOSTWICK—Goodell Venetian Blinds. More Light and Air — Without Glare.
INSULATION for CEILINGS—Warmer in Winter—Cooler in Summer.
WHEN you install Sager Metal Weatherstrip, you are assured of these comforts and savings:

Room comfort. No draughts to chill you.
Quiet. No rattling windows, open or closed.
Fuel savings. U. S. Dept. Agr. Reports 25%-40%.
Clean walls, furnishings. Less housework, decorating Costs are cut.
A written guarantee that pledges performance of every promise. By a Home Company. Recommended by Leading Architects and Contractors.
R. E. BREWER CO.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah
Radio Station K. S. L. Or this Publication.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Expert LANDSCAPE PLAN—Free!
Our expert landscape artists will make a planting plan for your particular home grounds, suggesting what to plant and where to plant it—all without cost or obligation on your part. Just write or phone us.
UTAH NURSERY CO.
"46 Years of Growing Service"
2190 South State Salt Lake City
Phone Hyland 2918
Catalog. Free on request.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
 
CONTENTS
Mount Timpanogos from American Fork Canyon Frontispiece
Unwanted Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson 121
Portrait of Miss Mary E. Richmond 122
Mary E. Richmond Amy W. Evans 123
Spring is Here Jessie Sundwall 127
Women Legislators Annie Wells Cannon 128
My Canvases Merling D. Clyde 138
Editorial—Women and Peace 139
Women in the Congress of the United States 141
Selma Lagerlof Clara J. Fagergren 142
History of the Emancipation of Women H. C. Singer 148
Notes from the Field 152
Guide Lessons for May 153
My Child Merling D. Clyde 158
A Reverie 159

VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 NO. 3
MOUNT TIMPANOGOS FROM AMERICAN FORK CANYON Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam.
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 No. 3
Mary E. Richmond Philanthropist and Social Worker By Amy W. Evans
On the second day of the new year of 1929, some of Mary E. Richmond's friends met in the hall of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York City. The meeting was held in her honor. They spoke of her personality and the qualities that made her the leader and the pioneer that she was in the field of social work. They told of some of her achievements and the depth and breadth of her influence upon the new profession she was instrumental in establishing. Many had known her for years as friend and coworker.
MARY RICHMOND'S SMILE
As a keynote of the occasion the first speaker said, "There was a certain smile that Mary Richmond reserved for bombast and overstatement. Pretense, exaggeration, words instead of ideas, would always evoke it. And so we must be cautious today and not exceed the facts; to try for the 'just word' that so delighted her, remembering that wise and quizzical smile. * * * We are gathered here to celebrate the fact that she was our great leader; and to lift up our hearts and strengthen our resolve in the light of her memory."
HER WORK AND CHARACTER
Through her books she was our friend and the woman of our organization, who, as so many have done, have studied "The Good Neighbor," "Social Diagnosis," "What is Social Case Work?" These have been a light and a guide to our feet in our efforts to improve our social welfare work. Miss Richmond, who died September 12, 1928, in New York City, was born in Belleville, Illinois, in 1861. Her parents died at an early age, and she went to live with her grandmother and an aunt in Baltimore. There she graduated from high school but, because of straitened circumstances, was unable to continue her formal education.
HER HARD WORK IN YOUTH
When she was sixteen, she went to New York to a position in a publishing house, but received a mere pittance as a wage. Becoming ill, she returned to Baltimore, where she found work as a bookkeeper in a store and later in a family hotel. During these years she was a student, reading constantly. All her life she had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge and ideas, and her reading was broad and varied. "She faced the bitter hardships of these early years honestly, and found her way out through hard intellectual work. She apparently never pitied herself, nor permitted fancy to smooth the rough edges of fact."
In 1889 the Charity Organization Society of Baltimore advertised for an assistant treasurer. Miss Richmond applied, because this work would take her out of doors, as it included the collecting of funds, and being physically frail she felt this would be good for her.
HER SOCIAL WORK BEGINS
"At once in her new work, she showed her characteristic keenness of perception and thoroughness. To be a good collector she must be able to interpret to others the work of the society. To interpret it well, she must have a first hand knowledge of the work itself." She soon became a friendly visitor, and that was the beginning of her social work. She was then twenty-eight years old.
Connected with the Baltimore Society at that time were three notable men, President Gilman of Johns Hopkins University, Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte, a leading lawyer, and John M. Glenn, "a rare personality who had become blind in early manhood, but lived in activity and marked intellectual insight." These men were quick to recognize ability and keenness of mind and, gave opportunity and encouragement for their development. They soon became aware of Miss Richmond's powers. She became the secretary of the Charity Organization Society, receiving their support in her plans to bring system and effectiveness into the charity work. At that time the work was mostly in the hands of volunteers; but the thinking men and women among them realized that their methods of giving "charity" were not satisfactory. It took the vision and courage of Miss Richmond to venture out of the trodden paths in the field of social work and discover new and better ones.
WHAT SHE ACCOMPLISHED
John M. Glenn, director of the Russell Sage Foundation, so long her co-worker and friend, said of her, "The death of Miss Richmond will be an incalculable loss to the whole field of social reform; for in her we have lost a fearless pioneer. Since her entrance into the field of social work, she has untiringly blazed the trail in behalf of the individualized method of helping human beings out of trouble. Her insistence that solutions of people's problems can only be worked out, case by case, rather than by treating 'types' of poverty, gave rise to the generally accepted term of 'social case work,' as a description of this particularized method of procedure."
SHE HAD MANY INTERESTS
Miss Richmond's interests in Baltimore went beyond her duties as secretary of the Charity Organization Society. She was interested in music of which she was very fond, and promoted concerts in connection with her church. She made a plea for good music in the public parks in summer. In her church she was a Sunday School teacher, and led a class in the study of Shakespeare on a week night. She was very fond of poetry. As a member of a club of working women, she was their representative at their national conventions. Their welfare and their opportunities were of great concern to her. In the meantime she edited a paper called the "Charities Record," published eight times a year, and wrote her first book, "Friendly Visiting Among the Poor."
TAKES CHARGE IN PHILADELPHIA
In 1900 she was asked to go to Philadelphia and take charge of the Charity Organization Society there, which she did; and during her nine years there, accomplished a marvelous work. In that day financial support of all this work was placed on the executive's shoulders. After reorganizing the society she freed it from debt. She secured $81,000 for a new Wayfarers' Lodge and raised an endowment fund of $55,000. In order to do this she wrote thousands of letters, reports, and pamphlets. Her example in this work also was soon followed the country over, greatly to the benefit of social work.
"She led in securing the passage of Wife Desertion and Non-Support legislation, and in forming the Pennsylvania Child Labor Committee, which secured child labor legislation; in establishing the Juvenile Court, the Children's Bureau. She led in the Housing Investigation in 1905, and promoted the organization of the Housing Association. She set in motion the movement that resulted in legislation providing institutional care for feeble-minded women and children, organized public meetings to consider social legislation, aroused city officials to enforce the law against street-begging, and advocated schools of philanthropy for training in social work."
OTHER IMPORTANT LABORS
These are but a few of the things she accomplished in social reforms. Her skill and sound judgment were also effective in preventing development of many unsound projects. In 1909 she was appointed director of the Charity Organization Department of the Russell Sage Foundation in New York. This position gave her opportunity for study, writing, and teaching, thus making the results of her years of experience in social work available for others. During the war she aided in the work for soldiers' families. And it was she who gave to this work the name of "Home Service." Many of the phrases she coined are common property, such as "Broken Homes," "Social Case Work," "Social Diagnosis."
PHASES OF HER WORK
Though she had no college degree, Smith College in 1921, conferred upon her the degree of Master of Arts "for her development of methods of social work which have given the scientific basis of a new profession." In her "Social Diagnosis" she systematized processes and developed a technique of social work which earned for her that honor.
As a preparation for the International Conference of Social Work held in Paris in the summer of 1928, Miss Richmond's book, "What is Social Case Work," was translated into French. Her own answer to the question she gives as follows: "Social Case work consists of those processes which develop personality through adjustment consciously effected, individual by individual, between men and their social environment."
A French physician, who translated her book, expressed the opinion that it would be of great assistance to the social workers of Europe. Just before her death she completed her book "Marriage and the State" which is now published by the Russell Sage Foundation.
WAS HAPPY WHEN HELPING OTHERS
Those who knew her best say she was never happier than when she was giving to others the results of her study and experience. "She had the true professional spirit that the creation of one is the common property of the group," and down to the last day of her life she was receiving letters from people who tried to tell her how much she had done for them.
Robert M. Yerkes says of her: "Intellectually alert, diversified in interest, educated by practical experience more largely than by schools, yet deeply cultured by breadth, variety, and complexity of human relations, together with extensive reading, she was able to assimilate experience and to transmute it into beneficent service. Genuinely sympathetic, socially minded by training—if not by nature—quick in perception of significant relations, as also of humor and pathos; responsive, but not effusive, this sturdy and independent personality met the world and shaped it in conformity with her ideals. * * * From her personality and achievements we read: 'Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make ye free;' and as a text of social service 'ye shall understand and understanding shall make ye kind.'"
MARY E. RICHMOND
SHE HAS NO SUCCESSOR
Another friend said: "About the things she believed in she could be arrogant; but about herself and her accomplishment she was humble. If she had to make her own summing up, I think it might have been in the words of one who was not the least among her literary loves. 'Blessed is he who has dropped even the smallest coin into the iron box which contains the precious savings of mankind.' * * * Personally, I refused to believe that Mary E. Richmond is dead. It is such as she who furnish all the proof I need of immortality. There could be no such cosmic wastefulness as to quench such spirits utterly. All those years of painful acquirement and outgiving, of rigorous self-discipline to the enlargement of her powers, cannot go to waste."
Frank J. Bruno, says of her: "It is ridiculous to think or to look around for a successor. The builders of trails through unknown wildernesses have no successors. They have followers, those who take up the work where the pioneers have laid it down. * * * * The passing of Miss Richmond further draws down the curtain upon a group of men and women that is rapidly disappearing, battle-scarred, courageous pioneers of whom we are likely to say in the years ahead of us, that there were giants in those days."
Spring is Here By Jessie Sundwall
There's a lilt in the song of the robin, A tang in the sweet breezy air, And showing of green Over nature's great screen, Ere she showers her blossoms so rare.
There's a gay little perk to the bluebird, As he preens on the branch of the tree, And the lambkins at play Have a more cunning way, As they gambol about carelessly.
There's a dash in the stride of the schoolboy, His cap at an angle is set, He owns, if you please, The world which he sees, A man with his battles unmet.
There's a glow in the blue of the heavens, More glint to the sunshine at morn, This message is breathed, The whole earth is wreathed, Proclaiming all nature reborn.
Women Legislators By Annie Wells Cannon
The legislature of 1929 will differ in one respect from those of any other year in that nearly all the states have elected women members. Since the Suffrage Amendment in 1920 there has been noted marked progress among women in almost every line of activity. The women have taken their enfranchisement quite seriously, and among the different groups or associations have endeavored to make a study of political science in order to intelligently use the ballot. The result this year has been most gratifying, so much so, that according to figures compiled by the National League of Women Voters this last year, 1928, seven women have been elected to Congress instead of four, and 145 women now sit in legislatures in thirty-eight states.
Connecticut is the state that leads all others in women legislators, having one woman in the senate and nineteen in the House. There is no question but that women make good legislators. They approach their task earnestly and generally speaking quite unselfishly. It seems to be their desire to serve the state as a whole, and help to bring about those measures that will benefit the people most, without regard to county boundaries or personal interests. While women naturally incline towards measures pertaining to social and educational questions, they are equally alert on any measure, and not often given to hasty or biased judgment.
The records of Utah's women legislators show them to have given good and efficient service and many most beneficial laws in the statutes have been introduced and carried through to enactment by them. It is therefore a safe conclusion that in the 18th legislature of 1929 the women will maintain the good standard of their predecessors and give excellent service to the state.
There are six women in the House. The largest number yet elected in Utah. Heretofore with two exceptions, once Weber county and once Utah county sending a woman representative, the women have all been elected from Salt Lake county. This year, 1929, Box Elder and Carbon counties each sent one, a fact which might seem to several a broader vision on the part of the electorate.
There are a number of important measures coming before the present legislature in which the women are particularly interested, principally a school for the feeble-minded, and the women of the state are anxiously watching the outcome. That the women legislators may be assured of fine support from the outside the different clubs and organizations of women have formed a Woman's Legislative Committee, which meets regularly and by the appointment of committees, corresponding to the legislative committee, are watching the course of all measures and lending what aid is permitted by meeting with the different committees and expressing their views either for or against as the case may warrant.
The influence this committee might yield is easily recognized when one considers the personnel consists of three members each, from all the womens organizations and clubs in the state, therefore much is expected and we predict much will be achieved by Utah's women legislators of 1929, backed as they are by so strong and intelligent a group.
The six women now sitting among the law makers are Mrs. Lucinda P. Jensen of Box Elder county, Mrs. Grace A. Cooper of Carbon county, Mrs. Anna T. Piercey, Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle, Mrs. Martha Purser, Mrs. Frank Page Stewart all of Salt Lake county. These women not only represent the constituency which elected them, but the women of the state have a personal interest in all they do for after all women are just beginning to grasp the reins in government and are the cynosure of all eyes. Men's mistakes may go unnoticed but women's are often times heralded as a reflection on the inability of women to meet great issues.
In preparing a brief sketch of the lives of these six women legislators the writer is happy in the thought that they will measure up to all that is expected of them in their arduous and trying position.
MRS. LUCINDA P. JENSEN: For the first time Boxelder county has sent a woman representative to the state legislature, Mrs. Lucinda P. Jensen of Bear River City having that honor. Mrs. Jensen assumes her duties well equipped and qualified for the tasks that lie before her, with a rather remarkable and varied record of public service and a home life that would be the pride of any woman. She is the oldest daughter in a family of four of Mr. Chrest and Mrs. Mary C. Peterson and the granddaughter of those hardy and faithful pioneers who braved the unknown for conscience sake. Two of her grandparents came with the hand cart companies, one died on the plains, and one reached the valley of Salt Lake so pierced with arrow wounds received in an Indian skirmish that he never fully recovered.
Her girlhood was spent on her father's ranch in the Bear River Valley. Her father died when she was fifteen years old, and from that time she became her mother's counselor and assistant in all that pertained to the ranch, in the meantime attending school to glean knowledge from books as well as experience. "Often," says Mrs. Jensen, "I recall my mother's anxious face at the window, watching for my return from school in the late afternoon as I made my way on horseback through a drifting snow storm. There is not much I do not know about horses and though now I drive a car I never presume to instruct others in that achievement, but when I see a man having trouble with a horse I want to take the lines from him and show him how to handle that fine domestic animal."
After the elementary schools she attended the Sacred Heart Academy in Ogden and later the state university. At this time she became assistant and help to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells in the office of the Woman's Exponent, so is not entirely a stranger to the readers of Relief Society periodicals. It was "Aunt Em" who encouraged her to tour Europe before settling down to her life's work, which she did for a year, thus affording a rather broader and certainly more finished outlook at the close of her school days.
With this heritage and background she was well prepared for life's responsibilities and she chose the better part. She is the wife of Orson Jensen, a successful stock raiser and business man of the Bear River Valley and they have six children, five sons and one daughter. The oldest son was one of the first missionaries to South America and the other children are pursuing their education in the University of Utah and county schools. Though so active in public service, Mrs. Jensen is most of all proud of her home life. Well trained in all the excellencies of housewifery and domestic arts, her home reflects the talents and good taste of its gracious mistress. She has a passion for landscape gardening and when time permits indulges somewhat in china painting, being rather fond of ceramic art.
Mrs. Jensen has always been interested in Church, civic and business organizations and has willingly acted as teacher in nearly all the auxiliary organizations of the L. D. S. Church. She is an active member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and when president of that organization with her co-workers, secured the log cabin which was a part of the old Bear River Fort and had it repaired and placed on the public square where it now furnishes a unique museum for pioneer relics and is the first shrine in Box Elder county to the worthy pioneers.
Mrs. Jensen holds numerous offices among business organizations. Is president of the home and community department of the County Farm Bureau, president of the Home Economics Club, president of the Ladies' Woolgrowers of Northern Utah, and president of the Better Homes Committee. It was largely through her efforts that the services of a school nurse for the Bear River Valley were obtained; and she is always most happy to lend her time and talents towards any onward move for the benefit of the home and the community.
Politically Mrs. Jensen is a Republican and is at present a member of the Republican state committee. She has received some very good appointments on committees for the House and is chairman of the Committee on Public Health.
MRS. GRACE AVERY COOPER
With broad business experience and a well trained mind Mrs. Cooper entered upon her legislative duties well prepared to meet the requirements and problems before her. Mrs. Cooper though not a native Utahn has the interests of the state at heart and expresses herself as anxious to promote those projects which will be of most benefit to the community.
She was born in Missouri where she received her education. She had thought at one time to follow a musical career and graduated from the state conservatory of music but later decided to take up journalism and when quite young worked as a reporter on the home paper. After her marriage she and her husband came west where in both Colorado and Wyoming they both engaged in newspaper work. Thirteen years ago in 1916, they came to Utah and purchased the controlling interest in the Price News Advocate, an independent paper which they published and edited together. Six years ago her husband died and since that time Mrs. Cooper has continued alone the work the two had so willingly shared.
Everyone knows it is no easy task to publish and edit a newspaper especially when one has all the responsibility, as well as the labor, but this brave little woman has carried on and won for herself the confidence and praise of the community to the extent that she entered the political campaign by the request of many citizens without regard to party though her political persuasions are Democratic.
Since coming to Utah she has been quite active in club work and being in the newspaper game naturally, much interested in public affairs. She is a member and past president of the Price Sorosis and through that a member of the State Federation of Women's Clubs. She is at present organizing regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution and active in the P. E. O. Sisterhood and Eastern Star. For the third term she has been elected secretary and treasurer of the Utah Press Association and is vice-president for Utah for the National Press Association on education. Her House committee appointments are Judiciary, Public Printing, Enrolling and Engrossing.
Those who have followed the legislative work have found her earnest, industrious and willing. She realizes that her calling is to serve the people of the state and this she endeavors to do making a record of which she can look back upon with pride and satisfaction.
MRS. ANNA THOMAS PIERCEY
Mrs. Anna T. Piercey possesses a very signal distinction. She was a member of the legislative session which had to ratify the Susan B. Anthony or 19th amendment, and the speaker of the House courteously invited her to take the speaker's chair during the roll call.
Mrs. Piercey is the daughter of Professor Charles J. Thomas, the pioneer leader of the theatre orchestra and one of the earliest conductors of the Tabernacle choir. Born and raised in Salt Lake City in a cultural environment she early learned the value of education and self-advancement. From the little private school house, she went to the Brigham Young University at Provo of which institution she is a graduate. She is also a graduate of the Salt Lake City Kindergarten Training school and of the normal department of the state university. She followed the profession of school teaching for five years during which time she also taught music. Her husband died in 1908 leaving her with three little children to care for. At this bereavement she found much comfort in the knowledge she had acquired and could turn to use, to prevent any thought of dependency.
Mrs. Piercey has had many varied experiences which have given her a broad and charitable attitude towards the needs of the people. Legislation is not new to Mrs. Piercey. She has served in two previous sessions in both of which her service was quite marked. She is the author of the eight hour law for women, a law requiring two shifts to be worked within twelve consecutive hours and it is considered one of the best eight hour laws in the United States. She has also endeavored to amend the minimum wage law for women, and steered her amendment through the House only to have it defeated in the Senate. She now asserts that she will again take up this needed legislation in behalf of the working girl. She also hopes to be helpful in securing a state school for the feeble-minded and other matters of keen interest to women and children.
In politics she is a most ardent Democrat and one of the founders of the Woodrow Wilson Club in Utah. She is a member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, and acted as secretary for this organization during the Diamond Jubilee. She is also a war mother and gave fine service in connection with the Red Cross during the period of the World War. As a worker in the Traveler's Aid Society she has assisted and befriended hundreds of young women when they failed to meet friends or relatives and were left in the strange quandary of not knowing just what to do or where to go. Mrs. Piercey's experience in this and other welfare work is guarantee sufficient that she understands the needs of the working classes and will give all the support she can towards any measure that will reasonably insure assistance and protection in industry.
MRS. EMILY McDONALD CARLISLE
Mrs. Carlisle is a native of Utah. She was born on a farm in Salt Lake county, picturesquely situated at the foot of the Wasatch hills. As a child she revelled in the delight of a beautiful outdoor life; climbing the hills in the different seasons in search of wild flowers or following her brothers in search of game. Robust, light-hearted, happy, she grew to young womanhood. While the regular routine of life on a farm has its arduous cares and responsibilities at the same time it teaches many fine lessons in economy, thrift and perseverance and is not without its wholesome pleasures. Family life is more closely bound, and as in the case of Mrs. Carlisle mother and daughter share an intimate relationship not only of heart, but mind, which makes and marks the future. Her mother was extremely fond of reading and to her growing daughter read poems, stories and history, instilling in her mind a love for good books and ambitions for education.
Mrs. Carlisle is the daughter of Francis and Rozella Stevenson McDonald. Her forebears came to America in an early period and had part in conquering the land and establishing our constitutional government. In like manner her grandparents pioneered the west and were among the founders of this commonwealth. Her grandfather Edward Stevenson was one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventy, and known far and wide for his untiring missionary service.
Mrs. Carlisle is a graduate of the Utah University and took a course in pedagogy at the Teachers College of Columbia University, New York. She has devoted much time to teaching, a profession she dearly loves. She also has given of her talents and knowledge very freely in the different auxiliary organizations of the Church and is at the present time president of the Relief Society of the Holladay ward.
In 1923 she became the wife of Harvey C. Carlisle in whose home she became a mentor and affectionate mother, to his little family bereft by death of their own mother. She has two lovely children of her own and claims, notwithstanding a busy public life, motherhood is the highest calling and should be the first consideration.
In the legislature she is a member of the Committee on Education, Resolutions and the School for the Deaf and Blind. Her purpose is to endeavor to promote good in all state departments and institutions.
MRS. MARTHA PAUL PURSER
Salt Lake county outside of the city is represented in the legislature by Mrs. Martha Paul Purser of the busy industrial center Magna, where the great refining plant of the Utah Copper Company is located. That she would be interested in the vital subjects that come before the legislature is certain, for the very atmosphere of her daily contact brings such subjects constantly before her. Amidst the unceasing buzzing and whirring of machinery, the constant passing to and fro of heavily loaded ore trains, the regular changing shifts of workmen passing on their way to and from the mills, she performs her home duties and ponders over the necessities of the day. This daily experience would seem to qualify her for public service and she entered upon her duties with the thought uppermost in her mind to render good for her community and state.
Mrs. Purser was born in Mendon, Cache county and is a descendant of Utah pioneers. When she was a little girl her father moved to southern Idaho, being among the early settlers of that locality. The family had twice the experience of pioneer life, an experience which, however hard, enriches and molds character. She attended the public schools of Idaho and later entered the Ricks Academy at Rexburg from which institution she graduated. After her marriage to James Purser, in company with her husband she attended the Agricultural College at Logan, taking special courses in Kindergarten and child training.
Mrs. Purser has always shown a desire to be of service to children and in her church activities has devoted much time to the welfare of the little folks. She has for many years been active in the Primary, and at present is president of that association in the Oquirrh stake.
Mrs. Purser has been, for some time, an active member of the Woman's Club of Magna, also of the Parent Teachers Association of which she is a past president. Politically she is a Democrat and is at the present time President of the Woman's Democratic Club of Magna. At the Democratic caucus she was specially appointed to work in behalf of the new Kindergarten measure and the school for the Feeble-minded.
Her House Committee appointments are Public Health, Industrial School and Prison Removal. She has a most pleasing personality and expresses a desire to work harmoniously to build up or strengthen community life.
MRS. FRANK PAGE STEWART
While not Utah born Mrs. Frank Page Stewart has so closely allied herself with the interests of the state that her heart is here and she expresses in all her work a keen desire to serve her adopted state. Born in the lovely city of Atlanta, Georgia, and most of her life spent in Florida, she brings a new atmosphere among the lawmakers; and, if it is as sweet and effective as her southern accent, she will surely win her way.
She is a graduate of the Duval High School and Draughns College of Jacksonville, Florida, at both of which institutions she later became a teacher. As a wife, and mother of two little girls, she is naturally interested in child welfare and education. While her first thought is the home, she has also found time to serve on numerous civic committees.
She belongs to a number of patriotic societies and has been president of the American Legion Auxiliary of Salt Lake City, also secretary of the State organization. Politically she is a Democrat and has been most active in each campaign since 1920.
During the last four years she has held the office of assistant secretary of the Democratic State Committee. A young matron of pleasing countenance and graceful manner, she claims no particular hobbies, and with an open mind is willing and anxious to help along any legislation that will be progressive and helpful for the community.
MY CANVASES By Merling D. Clyde
I do not need a brush to paint The wonders that I see, I hang them all on memory's wall And take them round with me.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA A. CHILD - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Nuttall Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Jennette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Edith D. Bradford Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Irene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager - - - - - - - - LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 No. 3
EDITORIAL
Women and Peace
If women have been and still are interested in prohibition, they are still more interested in the abolition of war and the establishment of peace. Since the beginning of December, 1928, such names as Carrie Chapman Catt and Jane Addams have been very much to the fore because of their efforts to abolish war and establish peace.
On January 15th a conference delegation met to discuss the problem of national armament reduction; as part of their program they marched upon the capitol at Washington and presented to Senators ten thousand resolutions of women's organizations, asking that they endorse the Briand-Kellogg antiwar treaty. This move was in support of the pact ratification. Mrs. Catt stated that the national feeling was squarely behind the treaty. She said that over ten thousand meetings held in forty-eight states had made this fact obvious.
Following the ratification of the Briand-Kellogg treaty we have an appeal from the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. At present they are asking in vigorous terms that the cruiser bill be defeated. These people contend that the building of fifteen more cruisers will make the treaty a sham and a hypocritical trick. If the bill is defeated, they believe we shall then start on the road of the new era which the Briand-Kellogg treaty has given the world; but if we build the fifteen cruisers, we shall renew the old race in armament and probably continue to perpetuate the archaic and wicked war system of the past.
In this editorial we are not arguing any case. We are merely seeking to present the fact that women in the United States are intensely interested in peace and will stand squarely behind any program for peace that appears feasible. It is natural that women should do this; for, as Mrs. Catt has pointed out in more than one of her public addresses, all the other struggles that women have made are lost if they are to be deluged in war, whose destructive agencies can mean nothing less than the sacrifice of civilization and the human race.
A tribute to Miss Jane Addams by Grace Hoffman White commends her attitude in this matter. It reads:
Though she has felt and mourned our human woes, She still holds laughter as a gift of God That turns the blade of those that would be foes And lives to know a time when wars shall cease; Her voice calls to the world "shake off the sod And know the love that is constructive peace."
Raffling and Games of Chance
As the Relief Society, more than any other organization in the Church, has interested itself in bazaars and as it is charged with the responsibility of meeting people's wants in many directions, and as it does seek means in various ways to meet these responsibilities, we wish to present a statement from the Presiding Bishops of the Church, concurred in by the General Board of the Relief Society, on raffling and games of chance. It has come to the knowledge of the General Board that sometimes wards have exhibited quilts to be raffled during a Sunday Sacrament meeting. Because of this report and others indicating that raffling and games of chance are being indulged in, we are publishing a statement that we think should make our attitude entirely clear.
"RAFFLING, GAMES OF CHANCE, ETC.
"Reports have been received from time to time that, in some instances, at ward fairs and other ward entertainments, raffling and other games of chance have been conducted. The argument used in favor of these contests is that such games are common in the business world and that the purpose for which they are employed is a worthy one.
"In order, however, that the position of the Church may be clear, we are quoting herewith from instructions given by President Joseph F. Smith and by President Heber J. Grant, which expresses the attitude of the church authorities. President Smith said, 'Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling.' For that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young people of the Church. President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling and said that 'as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain,' and advised the sisters, through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these statements and I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling. President Grant says, 'I have always understood that our people were advised to raise their money for charitable and other purposes without indulging in raffling, where chances are sold. There is no objection to creating competition in various ways in ward entertainments in order to raise money, but the selling of chances on any article has been discouraged.'
"The spirit of gambling or taking chances for money is so rampant in the world at the present time that the moderating influence and example of the Church should be exercised in behalf of our young people toward resisting such temptations. We urge that the spirit of these instructions be followed in all ward entertainments, and that proper advice in the same direction be given all members of the Church."
Women in the Congress of the United States
The present complexion of the Congress of the United States, so far as the women are concerned, suggests Wordsworth's refrain put in the mouth of the little cottage girl, "O, Master, we are seven." It was facetiously remarked during the last campaign that about the only humor furnished grew out of the fact that the three women running for Congress were named Ruth, a statement justifying the notion said one American daily, that the next Congress would not be entirely ruthless.
The four women who were in the last Congress were returned. They are Mrs. Florence B. Kahn, born in Salt Lake City, representing the State of California; Kate G. Langley, born in Marshall, Madison county, North Carolina, representing the State of Kentucky; Mrs. Mary T. Norton, born in Jersey City, representing the State of New Jersey; Edith N. Rogers born in Sacco, Maine, representing the State of Massachusetts.
To this number was added, as a result of the last election, Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, of Miami, Florida, representing the State of Florida; Ruth Hanna McCormick, of Chicago, representing the State of Illinois; Ruth Baker Pratt, of New York City, representing the State of New York.
This is the largest number of women that have been in the Congress of the United States at one time. It is also true that the aggregate number of women in the state legislatures is greater than ever before. The women of the United States have had a hard struggle to obtain proper recognition in the law-making bodies of the land, but the situation as it presents itself today is at least encouraging.
Selma Lagerlof Sweden's Most Noted Woman By Clara J. Fagergren
Miss Selma Lagerlof is Doctor of Literature, Nobel Prize winner, and honorary member of several foreign literary societies. Most of her writings have been translated to English, French, and German; many of her books have been acquired for screen use; and several are used as text-books in schools. She depicts the life and customs of her native country; her masterful portrayal of old legends and traditions has helped to preserve Swedish history.
Her genius was recognized when she submitted a story in a contest conducted by a woman's magazine, "Idun." She won first prize, and the king of Sweden arranged that she be granted a year's leave of absence from her work as school teacher with all expenses paid, in order that she might continue her prize story, so that it could be published in book form. The result was the "Story of Gosta Berling," a romantic fantasy interwoven with weird tales, ancient folklore, and historical events against a setting of Swedish background. It was the book that eventually won for her the Nobel Prize.
Selma Lagerlof soon gave up school teaching, and devoted her time to writing; and now, after nearly fifty years' endeavor in the literary field, she is known to all reading classes. For the faithful manner with which she pictures life in Sweden she is revered and beloved by her people.
Being in Selma Lagerlof's country, it was but natural that we should desire to meet her. To this end we boarded the train at Upsala, and after a day's journey through a delightful landscape of unsurpassed scenery, we stopped off for the night in the town of Kil. At six, the next morning, we continued by steamer up lake Fryken to Marbacka, Selma Lagerlof's home in Vermland.
Most of the passengers on the boat were tourists from Denmark and Germany, on their way up north to view the wonders of the midnight sun. They were a jolly, prosperous lot, carrying kodaks and field glasses. The men spent most of the time on board in the dining salon eating enormous quantities of food. When our traveling companions learned our destination, they shook their heads doubtfully. Doctor Lagerlof did not allow visitors to enter her grounds. She even kept several guards patroling the premises to prevent curious people from taking pictures of her home.
We landed on a small bridge on the edge of a woodland, and the captain told how to find the shortest way to Marbacka: "Follow the path till you reach the main road, then turn to the left and there you are." The woodland path was bordered with thick hedges of raspberry bushes loaded with ripe fruit, and being only human we had to stop and pick what was within reach. The main road forked in several directions, however, so we sought information at the nearest farm house. An old woman in home-woven dress and flowered kerchief on her head answered our questions. "Yes, Selma Lagerlof was at home, alright, for only a few Sundays ago she had been to church. She had seen her only from a distance, but had never spoken to her, although a neighbor; for Miss Lagerlof was of a different class. The woman and her aged husband were struggling along with the farm, for all their children had emigrated to America where everybody gets rich.
We passed Svartsjo church, described in "Gosta Berling." The structure is like most country churches in Sweden, substantial, white-plastered, bare, and surrounded by grave mounds and iron crosses. It is from this section of the country that Miss Lagerlof got the material for her famous story; for here are found the estates, forests, lakes, and waterfalls she loves to tell about.
At first, with light steps and high spirits, we follow the winding road; but as we gradually tire, the distance to Marbacka seems interminably long. It is hours since we landed from the steamer; nevertheless, our inquiries meet with cheerful answers: "Only a little way to the east, or west, or north," depending on the direction we faced. And it finally dawned on us we were in a country where a little jaunt of ten or twelve miles is considered a child's undertaking. We had been under the delusion that the distance to Marbacka could be covered in fifteen minutes.
A neat little place with blooming plants in the windows and the sign "Cafe" on the door beckons us in. Three girls, hair done up in braids and faces sprinkled with freckles, grin from an inner kitchen. There is no food in sight. "Dinner won't be ready for an hour. The fire is out; and, besides, this is the girls' time off."
At the next place a woman with dough on her hands and flour on her nose invites us to a table spread with a fine linen cover, a work of art. "Can we get something to eat?" "Yes, but not food," came the startling answer. "It's too early for dinner; but I can serve fresh buns and milk." Excellent. She brings a heaped-up basket of cakes and we eat as only famished people can eat, the whole family watching from respectable distance. Then we sense something is wrong. Good manners demand we take only a small portion, and here we are eating more than our share. The woman receives our money silently, hands it over to her husband, and resumes baking.
Refreshed and rested, we continue on. A thunder shower suddenly comes up, and we seek shelter from the driving rain under the nearest roof, which happens to be the district school house. The structure, a big, red-painted building, has four airy, well arranged class rooms downstairs and living quarters for the teachers up stairs. A trim woman teacher, detained for some reason during the vacation months, chatters sociably while we wait for the rain to stop. The school children come within a radius of eight English miles, a good two-hour walk, often through deep snow in zero weather. In winter it's dark when school starts at nine in the morning; and dark when it lets out at three in the afternoon. Salaries for teachers do not run very high; but rooms, light, and fuel are furnished free, so that teachers with positions are lucky.
As suddenly as it had started the storm stopped, and in radiant sunshine we again begin the search for the elusive Marbacka. The road branched off through a forest, with here and there a clearing for a tiny farm. Women worked in the fields with the men, while children tended flocks of sheep among the trees. The forest terminated into a wide plain of fertile meadows, and right before our eyes was the mansion of the best known woman in Sweden. Marbacka is an expansive estate of many acres of rich farm land, a well-kept garden of hundreds of fruit trees, large grounds of flower beds and green lawns, and gravel walks. The home of the author is an imposing three-story structure with tile roof and wide verandas. Two toy cannons guard the entrance. A couple of showy peacocks strut about. A big dog disturbed from his sleep on the door-mat springs up and bays furiously, The front door is opened by a maid in stiffly starched apron, who looks us up and down questioningly On a hastily scribbled card we explain we are visitors from America who will count it a great honor to meet the author of "Gosta Berling." A long wait. Finally the door is opened grudgingly and we are ushered into a vast and gorgeously furnished drawing room. The big room is stately and formal. The floor is parquet oak, very slick and highly polished. Designs in blue stencil ornament the white walls, and an antique "kakelugn," fireplace, of glazed tile and intricate pattern takes up a good deal of space. The furniture is upholstered in canary-colored brocade. On a large round center-table are stacks of autographed copies of first editions of well-known writers. In one corner stands a grand piano draped with a cover of fringed silk. Some original paintings in sombre colors hang in the place of honor on the wall above a massive davenport. A radio of the latest pattern is placed near the door. Our curious inspection of the "salong" is interrupted by the entrance of Selma Lagerlof herself. Miss Lagerlof is now over seventy years old. She walks with a slight limp, due to an accident a few years ago, when she slipped and fell on a railroad platform and dislocated her hip. Her face is broad and kindly with little mirth wrinkles at the corners of her blue eyes. The gray hair is combed back straight and pinned on top of the head. "Please be seated.? The invitation is given whole-heartedly, and right away we feel at home. Miss Lagerlof herself chooses a comfortable arm chair.: "So you're from America! That's a country I'm very much interested in and would like to see, were it not for the tiresome journey. Nearly everyone in this neighborhood has relatives or friends in the United States, and once in a while someone comes home on a visit, looking prosperous and happy. It is of course to 146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SELMA LAGERLOF'S be regretted that so many of our young people leave the country; but our resources are limited and land is hard to obtain, therefore one can't blame people for going where they can do better." "Miss Lagerlof would enjoy the trip,' we venture; "in America you would see so many things to write about." "I don't need to leave home to find subjects to write about. I only wish there was time for me to describe the scenes I see every day right here in my own neighborhood." And the great author looked out the window over the smooth fields and green woodland. "All my life I have noticed scenery and admired nature where other people see nothing or are too busy with their work to lift up their eyes. The settings for all my stories are taken from these surroundings. I am told I have made Vermland here in Sweden famous by describing it. These places have always been here, only I seem to be the first one to discover their beauty. "In my early days I taught school and I have always been interested in young people. Several of my books are now used in the schools. My 'Nils Holgerson's Wonderful Trip Through Sweden' has been accepted as geographical reader. I am convinced that Sweden has an inexhautisble source of information to draw from, both romantic and historical. "Last midsummer I was invited to be present at the closing exercises in the public schools in Kiruna, the most northen city in Sweden; in fact, it's inside the Arctic circle. Although it was the end of June the leaves were not yet out on the birch trees, and the planting hadn't started. The growing season up there is about SELMA LAGERLOF 147 six weeks, barely enough to raise a crop of hay, vegetables, and berries. However, the summers up north are a continuation of glorious daylight. On the other hand, down south in Skanie are crops of sugarbeets and tropical fruit. Truly a wonderful land! Where can you find another country like it?" Asked if she had ever thought of getting married, she smiled in an amused fashion. "No, I have never been married and it's too late in life to think about it now. It seems I have always been too busy with other things. In addition to my writing and correspondence I manage my estate and direct the servants about their work, and then I like to have a little time to read. "I inherited this home from my parents, but I've had it enlarged and remodeled so that one would hardly know it from the old place. A heating plant has been installed; for these large rooms were never comfortably warmed by only fireplaces. Here in Vermland we have long months of very cold weather. Since the improvements were made I stay here the year round; before that I lived in the city of Falun during the cold season. "No, I don't have much time to associate with the neighbors. Occasionally I go to church, for I'm a member of the Protestant faith and believe that every true citizen should have a good religious standing in the community. One needs a strong foundation to build on or the structure is liable to fall." She rose slowly from her chair and adjusted a curtain. The visit is over. We are asked to write our names in the visitor's book, and Selma Lagerlof kindly autographs a book for us. Then she politely follows us out on the veranda and consents to pose for a snapshot. "T'm pleased to know the people in America like me and read my books," she says in parting. "I have great respect and admiration for the greatest country in the world. After all, we are closely linked, for the bond of friendship is strong between us despite the great distance that parts us." She stands a commanding figure in her long black dress fastened at the throat with a heavy gold brooch. She gives her hand formally at parting and wishes us well on the return trip. Outside of the high, grilled-iron fence, a party of summer tourists crowd to catch a glimpse of the author; and we feel lucky indeed to have had the privilege of meeting the most noted woman in Sweden. History of the Emancipation of Women By H. C. Singer, of Lethbridge, Canada To woman it would seem that nothing is insurmountable, inaccessible, or unattainable. The barriers that confronted woman through the ages were numerous and gigantic, but to them not insurmountable. Education seemed to them inaccessible, and political status of equality with man, unattainable; and because these aspects seemed so, they were doomed finally to be rolled away. Not in a day, a year, nor in a generation, but in centuries yet to pass. No great strides were made during the hectic days of womens' hard fought revolution; but when the dust of the conflict had died down, out of the echoes of the blows struck came recognition to be given, and the first faltering steps of progress were achieved. Forces THAT HELD WOMEN IN SUBJECTION It is surprising when one casts his view back over the scenes of centuries of history, to perceive how civil law, church dogma, and tradition-breeding superstitution, have held woman in leash. Those into whose hands were placed the keys of refined education, and the replenishing of the world's population after war, disease and famine, were but chattels in the eyes of the law. Woman was the outcast, the breeder, before the Church; and but the spineless, the ignorant, the evil and the inferior, in the shady mind of tradition. It is not surprising that the progress was slow; the real surprise is that it started at all. WHEN WOMEN BEGAN TO RISE The rebellion of woman was bound to come. Flourishing Greece trembled at the first concerted women's movement lasting two centuries; and fast on its heels followed another in Rome. The former was for a political status; the latter, to gain some opportunity for education with political aims in the background. Before the young Jewish enthusiast was born in Bethlehem, woman had made two bold attempts to throw off the injustices put upon her sex and had thronged the Forum in Rome, picketing its entrances to petition their cause, much to the consternation of the Consuls. Success attended their efforts; and man, ever generous but condescending, paid them tribute by Cato the Elder, in an immortal oration, that praised the zeal but failed to sense the significance of the cause. THE EMANCIPATION OF WOMEN 149 The CHIVALRY OF JESUS Came a young man from the East with a philosophy of equality, that could forgive even an adulteress. He commended in woman all virtues, admired her faith and charity, and uprooted the rank weeds of superstition. But he did not live to die old; for the choice was not Jesus the Christ, but Barrabas. Christianity overspread western Europe, but instead of unchaining women, it added temporarily to their fetters; for it bore with it the bitter view that because woman had been the instrument of original sin. Penitence and obedience to the stronger sex were her portion in life.. Women Freed First ln ITALY Centuries passed, with women still fighting for learning. As the Italian Renaissance flowered, the women of Italy developed also. Too swift to endure, success came. The Latin countries of France, Spain, and Portugal followed the example of Italy. Women stepped into the seats of learning, teaching in universities while men sat as students in the classes. Poets and authors, and doctors of medicine they became; and into the labyrinths of law they penetrated, till from their efforts in this latter sphere, rings down the ages the oration on "Mercy" by a real or fancied Portia. Werg she but a conception of man, still his instrument was a woman, and in Italy, where woman's emergence had begun, these tributes to woman arose. WOMEN RENOWNED IN FINE ARTS In those times queens were renowned for their learning, were patrons of art, swaying for decades literature and painting. Convents for women and girls yielded forth educators and Mother Superiors noted for unusual talents as well as for piety. Long before Luther burnt the Papal bull, came the first whisperings of rebellion against the unacceptable edicts of the Church from a Mother Superior. Let those who doubt read of St. Theresa. THE UNIVERSITIES REACTIONARY Such success, however, was too rapid to endure. One by one the universities closed their doors to women, and by the end of the golden days of Renaissance, women stood on the steps of universities, knocking vainly for admission. From the very university where women had taught, the University of Bologna, the Faculty in 1377 sent forth the decree that impaled women again on the cross of superstition, erecting barriers against her that seemed permanent: "And whereas woman was the foundation of sin, the weapon of the devil, the cause of man's banishment from Paradise; and whereas, for these reasons all association with her is to be diligently avoided, therefore do we interdict and expressly forbid that any one presume to introduce in the said college any woman 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whatsoever, however honorable she may be; and if anyone should perpetrate such an act, he shall be severely punished." Thus, from seats of learning, went forth the excluding edicts, which governments during the days of Catholicism rigidly enforced. Leaders of the Reformation held similar views. Under Protestantism, as well as under Catholicism, women were barred from entering universities in the quest for learning. WOMAN IN Early AMERICA The New World, which was to boast of liberty and equality, was discovered by a man for man's advantage. Although the discovery was financed with the jewels of a woman, Isabella of Castille; and on its soil womeri fought a never-ceasing battle in the quest for learning, out of the country that framed the Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights, England, came echoes of a conflict made by the Women's Right movement, echoes that rumbled on the shores of America during the days of the American Revolution. Colonists from the old country brought the controversy with them, and here it gained in strength and purpose. WHEN Boston Took THE LEAD Since the early days, when the first settlers had built schools, the debate regarding female education had waxed strong; but ground was gained steadily by its supporters, although the subjects of instruction were very limited. In 1826 Boston opened a high school for boys and girls, on equal terms, but closed it two years later amidst the barrage of disapproval that was showered upon it. Then the girls too were permitted to study during the summer months only, when the boys were on the farms. Not until the college of Oberlin in 1853 opened its doors for both sexes, black and white, did the insurmountable barriers begin to collapse, and women again began to study and instruct. Oberlin was the first college to open its doors to women since the Church had closed them during the days of the Renaissance. Woman Foucut SLAVERY AND ALCOHOL When the early rumblings of coming war against slavery and alcohol were heard in America, women began the real fight. So insistent became the demands, to be seen and heard, that the opposition in genuine fright began an organized fight in the press, from the pulpit, and on street corners against the predicted invasion of women into the more masculine spheres of activity. Gradually women began their research into the law to seek reforms, and found that much of their opposition to women existed in custom only. Where it existed in law, such as in property rights, wages, guardianship of children, civil rights and voting powers, they came to the conclusion that the only means of redress lay in the vote. THE EMANCIPATION OF WOMEN 151 To clear from the statute books old laws that denied them equal rights with man and to prevent the enactment of further foolish laws, became the objective and the platform that was to be their fighting ground for nearly three-quarters of a century. Days oF LEADERSHIP BY WOMEN Then came the days of real leadership, under Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Mrs. Sarah McClintock. Together they drew up the program of women's rights, began to organize in earnest. From their first convention held in 1848, Mrs. John Stuart Mill gathered her material that became the guiding hand in the wide organized endeavors of English women. Faster the campaign moved them nearer the goal in America, but faster yet in England. The long years of campaign are records of ignorance, bigotry, Church hostility, and the efforts of certain vested interests to support the opposition to the equality of women with men. THE World War Brought Equality The years of the World War threw men and women together on an equal economic footing which, in all lands, welded together the ranks of women in patriotic endeavors. The freedom they attained during those hectic years gave them the taste of power that could be theirs. On the heels of peace, during the prevailing spirit of democracy, the nations of the world began to enfranchise women. Starting in 1918 in Europe, among the nations emerging from the War, it was not until August, 1920, that the women of America realized their aim in the political field?woman suffrage. The success they have had since the franchise, and how they have used it, constitutes another story; but that they will exercise it to prevent tampering with the sanctity of the home, by certain interests, that they will aspire to abolish war, to foster education, and to make better conditions for labor and common living, cannot be disputed. And is the battle over? Is earth yet as heaven? To woman nothing is unattainable, inaccessible, or insurmountable.
The Magazine extends its congratulations to Judge Florence Allen, formerly a native of Salt Lake City, on her recent reelection to the Supreme Bench of the State of Ohio. Miss Allen was reelected by a very flattering majority.
Notes from the Field
Reorganizations. Within the new year two of the stakes have reported reorganizations in the Relief Society. On January 13, 1929, President Esther Thomas, at her own request, was honorably released as president of the Woodruff stake, this action being taken owing to the illness of her husband. Mrs. Harriett Spencer was made president, Mrs. Esther Warburton, first counselor, and Mrs. Isabel Johnson, second counselor; Violet Gerrard was retained as secretary-treasurer. These sisters constitute the new executive officers of the Woodruff stake. They are experienced Relief Society workers, and trained leaders.
While the news did not reach the office until the new year, the reorganization of Young stake actually occurred on December 9, 1928, when Mrs. Johanna S. Smith was released as president. Mrs. Smith's release was due to the fact that she would be away. She has given many years of service to the Relief Society cause. Mrs. L. Nettie Behrman was sustained as president, with Nellie D. Carter first counselor, Matilda T. McGee second counselor, and May B. Brady, secretary-treasurer. We congratulate these sisters upon their call to leadership. We feel that they will rise most efficiently to their duties.
Reports of the following successful and practical class leaders' conventions have been received:
Wasatch Stake. At Heber, on November 3, 1928, a class leaders' convention was held in Wasatch stake under the direction of the three stake class leaders. A delightful session was held. There were about 80 ward workers in attendance, including all the officers from presidents to Magazine agents. Dr. Amos M. Merrill and Mrs. Stella Rich, from the Brigham Young University at Provo, gave lectures with demonstrations of better teaching methods. Musical numbers were furnished by the Charleston and Heber choirs. A splendid display of work suggestive of what may be done in the Work and Business Meetings of the Relief Society was arranged. At noon a luncheon was served by the stake board members.
Granite Stake This stake also is stressing not only subscriptions to the Magazine, but its very general use. At the last Union Meeting special attention was given to this matter. The sisters were urged to use the Magazine in all its departments. The following slogan was adopted: "Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and repeat the reading of each lesson before the day on which the lesson is given."
Guide Lessons for May
LESSON I
Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in May)
INDUSTRY
Some Introductory Statements
Industry and civilization advance abreast on parallel lines. Worklessness and worthlessness are close companions. The two universal inquiries: What shall I do to be saved? What shall I do to make a living? The joy of earning is second only to the joy of giving. The highest form of charity is employment. Industry is more than activity; it is activity directed toward productive ends. We are instinctively active and intentionally industrious. The activity urge may be a good self-starter, but it requires a duty-spur to keep us going. Habits of industry in one direction aid in industrial achievements in another. The honor student is usually industrious at home. Industry is the offspring of duty. It is pertinent that the gypsy language contains no such word as duty. Idleness, ill-will, and ignorance, are three disgraces. The abundance of our spiritual life depends upon the quality of our religious industry.
Selecting a Vocation
Passing from the indispensability of industry, we come face to face with the problem of selecting our field of work. The selection is known as choosing a vocation. In making this choice, some careful considerations are of the utmost importance. The major question, What shall I do to make a living? Should be followed by these minor inquiries:
1. Is this vocation honorable?
2. Is it healthful?
3. Does it offer opportunities for advancement?
4. Is it sufficiently compensative for current needs and possible saving?
5. Does it provide consistently for some leisure?
6. Is it within the range of any of my aptitudes?
All vocations that are helpful to the human family are honorable, and all industry that is hurtful to the race is listed in the book of fate as unfit to survive.
The greatest physical wealth of this world is health. There is truth in the aphorism that "He who needs health needs everything." In this day of sanitary safeguards, unhealthful vocations are not often found; but individual differences suggest that what might be healthful for one person might be unhealthful for another. Some people wilt in the sunshine of out-door labor, and others fade in the shade of in-door employment.
A vocation that makes man nothing more than a cog in a machine is to be shunned as a field where petrification of personality is certain. One must have the privilege of looking upward, with the possibility of climbing to the place of "more room."
Vocations that offer nothing more than a "hand-to-mouth" compensation are safe to shun. The impossibility of "laying something by" deadens the spirit of thrift essential to industrial hope and happiness.
This is an age of almost excessive leisure; and industry has no little trouble to keep free from the interference of recreation. Captains of industry have demonstrated that recreation is one of its best allies, that leisure is one of labor's best friends. In the light of these two facts the great industries are fostering spare time activities in the form of athletic contests and avocational enjoyment. A vocation is indispensable for making a living; an avocation is desirable for enjoyment of leisure. Vocation and avocation are two main tributaries to the stream of abundant life.
The closer the vocation and the aptitude of the individual, the more joy-giving will be his or her vocational success. Out of a considerable number of definitions of success given by prominent men of our country, the following is accorded first place: "Success consists in doing what you like to do in such a way that you will not have to do something else to make a living." No little of the grumble part of life is due to vocational misfits or industrial conflict in the life of the individual, and we are looking to the mental-test field for help in lessening this unequal yoking of work and worker. The Psychological Corporation of New York City, has been signally successful in finding out where persons may succeed. The record made by this organization so inspired confidence in this scientific method of forecasting possibilities that a certificate of ability is taking the place of tedious tryouts and painful elimination.
Child Labor
It is an open question as to what extent children should be permitted to labor. The general trend of public opinion seems to be in the direction of less labor and more supervised leisure for the child. This attitude is the outgrowth mainly of an oppressive and over-exacting treatment of children in factories, and of putting the products of child labor in competition with the output of adult labor. There is good ground, however, for believing that child labor in kind and quantity suited to the age and ability of the children would be decidedly preferable to closing the doors of industry against them. Surely the child is as well suited to some light work as it is to strenuous play.
Women in Industry
This is a problem of intense and world-wide interest. Freedom of "say" naturally calls for freedom of "do." Franchise equality becomes the forerunner of a claim for the industrial equality of women and men. One point in the controversy is fairly well settled, that of equal pay for equal work; but the question of equal opportunity for employment is under debate from the fireside to national legislative halls. The problem finds place in college classes; it blazes from books, rings from the lecture platform, and radiates from the daily press. As to the race benefits, the merits of its claims, time only can decide; but the nearby outcome of the issue is unmistakably indicated by the following findings of the Women's Bureau of Information (U. S. Department of Labor) published in the Book Folder for No. 5: "Facts"
"The United States has over 8,500,000 women gainfully employed, more than one-fifth of them in manufacturing and mechanical industries.
"All but 35 of the 572 occupations listed by the Census employ women.
"One in every 5 wage earners is a woman.
"One in every 5 women is a wage earner.
"One in every 4 wage-earning women is married.
"One in every 11 married women is a wage earner.
"One in every 5 wage-earning women is under 20 years of age; 1 in every 5 or 6 is more than 44 years of age.
"One in every 7 or 8 is foreign born; 1 in every 5 or 6 is a negro.
"The majority of women workers, both married and single, contribute to the support of others, their earnings being an important factor in the family budget."
In this industrial avalanche the greatest danger signal is the possibility of having the home swept from the mother-love foundation, upon which it was first built and on which it has rested from the beginning. There is the fear that as women enter the field of industry, their incomparable profitableness as makers of men will be deflected to that of less value?the making of money. The safety sign concerning industrial freedom for women reads, "The nature of the bird fastens it to its brood. There is no need of keeping its wings clipped to prevent its deserting the nest."
Industry and Education
The prophet, sage, and pioneer, said?"Education is the power to think, the power to act, and the power to appreciate." This definition includes the use of head, hand, and heart. In founding the University which bears his name, he specified that the school give opportunity for industry. Among the most up-to-date ideas concerning college degrees is the thought that the document shall specify the vocational efficiency of the graduates or that it shall be supplemented by a special certificate of the holder's fitness for making a living.
Industry Wage Standards
The price of labor, like that of commodities, has been determined by supply and demand; and this basis of standardization still prevails in most countries. In our republic, however, the wage standard is coming to be the cost of living; not the cost of existence, but the cost of respectable living. Many applicants for one position have no effect on the salary. Employers who underpay and employers who underbid for work face a fierce taboo.
The Religious Aspect
Industry is an outstanding characteristic of divinity. The creation was the result of the labor of the gods. (See Gen. 1 and Book of Abraham, 4.) "Six days shalt thou labor." The whole life of the Savior was an object lesson in industry. One of the climaxes of his teaching was "Work while it is yet day." His was the vocation of a teacher and in it He never tired. Paul's estimate of the idler is expressed in I Timothy, 5:8. Modern revelations declare: "Woe unto you poor men * * * who will not labor with your hands." (Doc. And Cov. 56:17). "The idler shall be held in remembrance before the Lord." (Doc. And Cov. 68:30). The complete text makes plain that the remembrance is to be an unfavorable one. "Now I the Lord am not well pleased with Zion, for there are idlers among them." (Doc. And Cov. 68:31). "He that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garment of the laborer." (Doc. And Cov. 42:42). "The idler shall not have place in the Church, except he repent and mend his ways." (Doc. And Cov. 75:29). This last declaration makes voluntary idleness a sin.
Questions and Problems
1. Distinguish between activity and industry.
2. Discuss the joy-value of earning.
3. Explain the difference between a vocation and an avocation.
4. Give the six points of vital consideration in choosing a vocation.
5. Which is better, to have wages based on supply and demand or on standards of living? Giving reasons for answer.
6. Explain briefly the problem of "equal rights in industry."
7. Give some of the most valuable findings quoted in this lesson of the U. S. Women's Bureau concerning women in the industries.
8. Show wherein Brigham Young was a pioneer for industrial education.
9. Comment upon the harmony between statement twelve in this lesson and the scripture "Do the works and ye shall know of the doctrine."
10. With praying as the first and work for the dead as the last, mention as many activities as you can that go to make up Latter-day Saint religious industry.
11. To what extent is the following in harmony with your desires:
May life eternal be my share To work in my Redeemer's care With those I love eternal joy, Progressive work in God's employ.
LESSON II
Work and Business (This topic to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in May)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
WHY THE LESSONS IN SOCIAL SERVICE?
I. To disseminate knowledge which will promote the well-being of children.
II. To give reliable information regarding children, so that one may know "what is wheat and what is chaff" in our present day knowledge of the nature, well-being and education of children.
III. To show how to interpret and apply to childhood and youth the results of study, experiments and investigation of recent years regarding the needs of childhood and youth physically, intellectually and morally.
IV. To help mothers to lay the proper foundation for the development of their children?for the fashioning of their intellects, the moulding of their characters and the influencing of their physical growth.
V. To help mothers to understand their children.
VI. To help mothers to better understand themselves and the effect their own reaction has upon their children.
VII. To show the importance of the closest cooperation between parents and children.
MY CHILD By Merling Clyde
Dreamer mine, Thoughts that are thine Echo back to my heart, Bringing peace, Sweet joys release? Life's journey soon you'll start.
Near or far, Where e'er you are, Our souls can never part.
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in May)
JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN By Louis N. Parker
"Joseph and His Brethren," by Louis N. Parker, was produced both in New York and in London in 1913. This play is not a problem play. It is a pageant play, and as presented in His Majesty's Theatre in London under the able management of Sir Herbert Tree gave to us a pageant of Bible history that has seldom been equalled.
We shall present the play where Joseph's brethren are discussing their father's seeming favoritism for Joseph. The two factions are just coming to blows when Reuben finds his way through and says:
Reuben: Peace?peace, I say!?I, Reuben, the eldest-born speak!
All: (Falling apart, and with respect) Reuben!
Reuben: (Sternly) Are ye the brood of Cain, that each would have his brother's blood, on the day our Father Jacob hath set apart as a day of rejoicing?
Judah: Twice have I heard the day named as a day of rejoicing. What is the day?
Reuben: Have ye forgotten? Today Rachel's eldest-born cometh to manhood.
Judah: Joseph!
All: Joseph!?The dreamer?The upstart!
Reuben: I know now what new thing ye are banded in against Joseph; but I bid you beware. Our father loveth him as the apple of his eye. Today, ere we go to our flocks, he is to endue him with the robe of manhood. Tonight, when our labor is done, there is to be great feasting. Bring no sorrow into our father's house today. Moreover, Joseph hath dreamed a dream?
Gad: (With a mocking laugh) That is no new thing!
Reuben: (Sternly) Bridle thy tongue?for when did Joseph's dreams not come true? And now he dreamed we were binding corn in the fields, and, lo, his sheaf arose and stood upright, and, behold, our sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to his sheaf.
We now move to the wells of Dothan. The word has come to the brothers that a caravan is approaching from the East and they are making ready to spread their wares for sale. Each is proclaiming the virtue of his wares.
Zebulum: I have nought but melons.
Joseph: Surely, you will not give the weary strangers the milk and the melons without price. Our father, Jacob?
Simeon: Said I not he came as a spy?
Judah: But thou, Simeon, wherefore layest thou thy store where the strangers may not see it?
Simeon: Ho! Wilt thou teach me to barter? I tell thee, these will be first seen. And when the strangers say, what are these? I shall answer, These be gifts for my sweet brother, Joseph.
Joseph: Why, then, I'll take my gifts now; and thank thee!
Simeon: Fool! Thinkest thou I mean what I say?
Joseph: Can a man say one thing, and mean another?
This controversy over the sale of goods furnishes the excuse for the brethren to pounce upon Joseph and place him in the well. Simeon describes this well by saying that "this pit is deep, and there are evil things within it. The sides are smooth, and we have no rope. If he fell in, by mischance?he could not crawl out, nor could we have him out; and ere we fetched help, the things in its depth would have made help of no avail."
Finally the caravan arrives and in it is the Lady Zuleika. She has been purchased that she may become the wife of Pharaoh's general, the Lord Potiphar. When Judah hears this he says: "The lady Zuleika?I have heard strange tales of her beauty?and her wisdom."
Zuleika is very much taken up with the wares of the brothers and exclaims: Buy all their wares at their own price.
Joseph's voice is heard from the pit in a sort of chant.
The Lord my God; the Almighty God, He shall lift me out of the mire.
Judah: (Starting) What is that?
Dan: It is Joseph! He is alive!
Issacher: If the strangers hear him?!
Joseph's voice: They digged a pit for me and cast me in, But I shall arise and confound them, For my God is the only God, The gods of the strangers are stocks and stones: But my God is Almighty!
Zuleika's Voice: (Angrily) Who mocketh at my gods? Who singeth of a God that is greater than mine?
Ani: (Who has come to the dried well and is peering into it) There is one in the well?
Zuleika's Voice: Have him come forth!
Ani: He standeth among serpents?
Zuleika's Voice: He standeth among serpents? Have him forth quickly!
Zuleika's Voice: He mocketh at my gods. Strip him and slay him!
Heru: Well said! At last we shall have sport for our money.
Judah: (Angrily) Ye cannot slay the lad!
Joseph: (Calmly) Ye cannot slay me.
Heru: Can we not? (To a slave) Show him the knife.
Joseph: God will deliver me, for He is not a lying God as yours are?
Zuleika's Voice: Slay him!?I will wash my hands in his blood.
Heru: (To slave) Make ready.
Judah: See how he faces them!
Levi: (Veiling his face) I cannot look upon this.
Zuleika's Voice: Wait!?I would see!
When Zuleika sees him she becomes so deeply enthralled by his beauty that she says: Lo! I sought a gift to bring to my lord Potiphar, and I found nought. Here is what I sought. Thou, buy this lad of his brothers, and I will give him to my lord to be his slave.
Then we go back to Jacob's tent where they are assembling to celebrate the fact that Joseph has come of age.
Judah: Father, thy blessing!
Jacob: Where is Joseph?
Judah: Where should he be, but safe in thy keeping?
Jacob: I sent him to see whether all was well with you.
Again Jacob says: Why tarrieth Joseph??And Reuben??where is my first-born?
Rachel cries to Simeon: Son of Leah, where is my child?
Levi: Behold, father, the maids and men grow impatient.
Jacob: Can we begin without Reuben and Joseph?
Levi: They will be here anon.
Jacob: Begin, then; but I am troubled.
As the festivities go on Jacob pays tribute to Rachel.
Jacob: For, lo! I stood by the well at mid-day, And Rachel came thither with Laban's sheep; And when I beheld her, I loved her. I served Laban seven years for Rachel: Seven years of my life I gave for Rachel: And Laban gave me Leah to wife. Leah was tender-eyed: But Rachel was beautiful and well-favored, And yet another seven years I served Laban for Rachel. And Rachel was my wife, and I loved her. But Rachel bare me no son. Other sons I had, but my beloved was not their mother. Then God remembered Rachel And she bare a son and called his name Joseph. And tonight we are gathered to do him honor, To do him honor whom I love with uttermost love, For he is come to man's estate. I made him a coat of many colors, To be for a sign of his dignity: Red for courage, and azure for wisdom, Green for prayer, and white for purity. And all his brethren are here with gifts; And ye are here with your songs and dances? But Joseph tarries?Joseph is in the storm? (He drops the harp, and stands with extended arms) Joseph! Joseph! My beloved! Where art thou?
(With a hideous rattle of metal rings the curtains at the back are torn asunder. There is a blinding and prolonged quiver of lightning, and in it, fierce and terrible, stands Reuben. All turn to him with a gasp of horror.)
Reuben: (Holding up the coat of many colors) This have I found; know now whether it be thy son's coat or no!
(Jacob reaches for it with inarticulate cries, and falls forward on his face. There is a terrible crash of thunder and sudden pitch darkness. A great wail of mourning is heard, and the curtain falls.)
In a later scene we have Joseph asking to go forth to war with Potiphar. Potiphar has promised Joseph his freedom on his return from war but says:
Now, Joseph, I crave a boon.
Joseph: My Lord?! Do with me as thou wilt.
Potiphar: Fighters I have as the sands of the desert, but no friend I love as I love thee! Ah! Thou shalt lose nought by granting my request. Lo! I make thee lord of my household while I am at the war, and whatever is mine I put in thy charge. Maidens and men, ye hear?
Heru: We hear and obey.
Potiphar: But chiefest, I commit to thy keeping the lady Zuleika. Joseph?Joseph?watch over her as though thou wert myself.
Joseph: As thou leavest her, my lord, so shalt thou find her.
While Potiphar is away the famous temptation occurs. Before Zuleika matures her plans a charming little scene takes place between Joseph and Asenath, his sweetheart.
Asenath: Thou holdest me afar off.
Joseph: Let me speak of serious things.
Asenath: Is not love a serious thing?
Joseph: It is of love I speak.
Asenath: I cannot hear thee so far away.
Joseph: I cannot speak when thou art nearer.
Asenath: Oh, speak quickly, then.
Joseph: Tomorrow at dawn my lord returneth, and I shall be free. My first errand will be to thy father.
Asenath is hardly out of the way when Wakara, the handmaid of Zuleika appears, and the following conversation occurs:
Wakara: Joseph?Joseph!
Joseph: Who calleth.
Wakara: 'Tis I?Wakara.
Joseph: What is thine errand?
Wakara: The lady Zuleika hath news of my lord's return.
Joseph: I sent her the news.
Wakara: She biddeth thee come to her, to tell her more.
Joseph: There is no more to tell.
Wakara: She commandeth thee to come.
Joseph: Tell thy mistress I am on guard. I may not come.
Wakara: Thy mistress commandeth thee, her slave.
Joseph: Not hers, but her husband's. I will not come.
Wakara: I cannot carry so rough an answer.
Joseph: Speak it gently; I have no other.
Zuleika having failed with her first message sends Wakara with another. When she was leaving Joseph after her first errand, she came across some persons who were plotting against Pharaoh's life. Zuleika catches at this point and sends a message that brings Joseph.
Joseph: My lord made me overseer of his house. I rest neither by day nor by night.
Zuleika: I know thy zeal for thy lord. I ask why thou scornest me?
Joseph: I hold my lord's wife in highest honor. Tell me now what thou hadst me hither to tell me?
Zuleika: Had I ought to tell thee?
Joseph: And Wakara said my lord Potiphar was in danger.
Zuleika: Wakara was dreaming.
Joseph: Is that not true? Then I take my leave.
Zuleika: Wait. There was another matter. But I cannot remember.
Joseph: My lord's return?
Zuleika: Ay, perchance.
Joseph: All is ready.
Zuleika: Ay?thou hast toiled by day and night. Take this ring for reward.
Joseph: (Refusing it) I need no reward.
Zuleika: So proud and scornful?yet a slave?
Joseph: Forgive me. Farewell.
Zuleika: Nay, I am not angered. Nay, thou shalt not go. Art thou not in some sort mine? I saved thee from horrible death.
Joseph: I have not forgotten.
Joseph: That touch?! Where else have I felt it?
Zuleika: Thy lips are parched?
Joseph: I thirst!?I thirst!
Zuleika: Drink?beloved! (She bends over him and kisses him long on the lips. Suddenly, with a cry of intense horror, he breaks away from her.)
Joseph: The serpent's kiss! Hah! Now I remember! Thy sinuous limbs?I saw them in the well! Thy shimmering hair?so the serpents shone as they writhed!?Thy flaming eyes?so theirs flamed in the darkness!?Thy fingers about my throat?so they coiled about me!
Zuleika: Beloved, thou art frenzied!
Joseph: Ay, and my frenzy hath dragged me to shame! How can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?
Zuleika: What is thy God to me? I cling to thee! I clutch thee!
Joseph: Farewell! (He dashes out. Zuleika is on her knees clutching the cloak he has left in her hand. After a moment's stupor she rises to her full height. She raises her hands, grasping the cloak in her left hand and her dagger in her right, to the goddess.)
Zuleika: Smite him, thou! Slay him! Art thou a goddess and canst not blast him? (With a sudden revulsion she clasps the cloak to her breast) Nay! I love thee! I love thee! (She sinks on the couch in a frenzy, and stabs and slashes the cloak with her dagger.) I would this were thy heart! I would I had let thee rot in thy well!?(Another change) Thy lips! Thy lips! (She presses the cloak frantically to her lips.)
Potiphar comes back and proclaims Joseph a free man. He is in the midst of bestowing other rewards for all of his careful work when Zuleika, almost hysterical, presents Joseph's outer garment as proof of her claim that he has insulted her. Zuleika accomplishes her malicious design and Joseph is cast into prison. While there he wins the friendship of the keeper, becomes acquainted with the chief butler and chief baker, and learns why they were cast into prison.
Imhotep: I have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it.
Joseph: Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me thy dream, I pray thee.
Imhotep: In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; and in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: and Pharaoh's cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
Joseph: This is the interpretation of it: The branches are three days: yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
Imhotep: Oh, friend, thou hast filled my heart with joy!
Joseph: But think of me when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house: for indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews; and here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.
Imhotep: By thy God and my gods I swear, not a day shall pass, but I will have thee forth with great honor.
Serseru: My Lord?the interpretation was good?I also have dreamed?give me comfort.
Joseph: Conscience alone can give comfort; but speak.
Serseru: I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head; and in the uppermost basket there was all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.
Joseph: This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
Then we have the meeting of Pharaoh and the wise men.
Pharaoh: Are the priests and sages here as I commanded?
Tehuti: O, King, they await thy word.
The priests and sages are unable to interpret Pharaoh's dream and Imhotep recalls the fact that Joseph interpreted the dreams of himself and the baker correctly. Joseph is called for and Pharaoh relates his dream.
Pharaoh: In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river; and there came out of the water seven kine, fat-fleshed and well-favored; and they fed in a meadow; and, behold, seven other kine came up after them; poor and very ill-favored and lean-fleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness: and the lean and the ill-favored kine did eat up the first seven fat kine; and when they had eaten them up it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill-favored, as at the beginning. So I woke.
Pharaoh: And I saw in my dream; and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good; and, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east-wind, sprung up after them: and the thin ears devoured the seven good ears! And I told this unto the magicians: but there was none that could declare it unto me.
Joseph: God hath shewed Pharaoh what He is about to do. The seven good kine are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one. And the seven thin and ill-favored kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the wind shall be seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: what God is about to do He sheweth unto Pharaoh. Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout the land of Egypt?And then shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land; and the plenty shall not be remembered in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass!
Joseph having been tested completely before the court and not found wanting is rewarded by Pharaoh.
Pharaoh: Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled; only in the throne will I be greater than thou. Joseph art thou no more, but I will call thee Zaphenath Paneth, the prince of the days to be. See! I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. Bow the knee!
All: Hail, prince of life!
Then follows the scene of the brothers with their father, Jacob, in Palestine.
Reuben: The food we brought out of Egypt is all spent.
Asher: My children, and my children's children clamor for bread.
Reuben: It is the curse of God for the evil we did unto Joseph.
Levi: Now we must go down to Egypt a second time.
Serah sings in the wilderness.
Serah: I sit alone in the wilderness, My children are perishing around me Mother, mother, they cry, We hunger, we are athirst, Cry not to me, O children, Cry to the captain of Israel! As for me, I am dried up; My heart-strings are rent asunder, Even as I rend the strings of my harp!
Jacob: Who singeth? Is it thou, Serah, daughter of Asher?
Serah: Father, it is I! My child is dying!
Jacob: Joseph, my beloved, is dead; and Simeon is a captive in a strange land.
Serah: But we, the living, are an-hungered.
Reuben: All the seed of Israel will surely perish.
Jacob: Go again; buy us a little food.
Judah: The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother, Benjamin, be with you.
Jacob: Me have ye bereaved of my children; Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take away Benjamin, whom his mother died in bearing: all these things are against me.
Reuben: Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee.
Jacob: Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?
Levi: The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? Have ye another brother?
Issachar: Could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?
Gad: The man knew all things: for though the city hath ten gates; and we went in, each of us by a separate gate, yet he knew all our going and coming.
Zebulum: He is called the Revealer of Secrets.
Judah: Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we and thou, and our little ones.
Serah: Israel! Israel!
Judah: I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him, If I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame forever. For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.
Jacob: God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved, I am bereaved.
Joseph prepares to meet his brethren. The door on the left is thrown open. Finally Joseph introduces his brothers to the crowd. Asenath, his wife, comes forward bringing Joseph's little sons, and Simeon and Benjamin.
Joseph: Behold! These are my brethren from the Land of Canaan. Shew them like honor as ye shew unto me!
Reuben: Now must we hasten to Canaan to tell our father the great news.
Joseph: Nay, but ye shall abide here, and send for your wives and your little ones; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.
Judah: Our father yearneth for Benjamin?and for thee also he hath grieved all the years that thou was lost.
Joseph: Throw wide the gates! (All the enclosure at the back is removed. The gardens are full of an excited throng. Through the crowd comes a procession of Canaanites, men, women, and children; in their midst, Jacob, borne on a litter high on the shoulders of eight bearers. Joseph awaits the entrance of the litter, with Manasseh on his left hand and Ephraim on his right. Asenath stands a little behind, all with their backs to the audience. The Brethren, at the sight of Jacob, have cried: "Jacob! Our father! Israel!" and have made room for Joseph and his group to stand alone. The litter is set down, being so built that when it is on the ground Jacob is very nearly upright. Joseph: Great Israel! Behold thy son! (He rushes to his father's arms.)
Jacob: Now let me die, since I have seen thy face! (He rises with out-stretched arms, inspired.) Joseph is a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall; the archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and persecuted him; but his bough abode in strength and the arms of his hands were made strong, by the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee, and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the breast and of the womb. The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills; they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren. (All stretch their arms out to him in the soft afterglow of the sunset.)
Joseph: He raiseth the poor from the dust; from the depths He lifted up the needy. Oh, Lord of Hosts, happy is the man who trusteth in Thee!
Problems of the Play
This play has no problem such as the other plays have. It is, however, an excellent example of the triumph of good over evil. It also brings into bold relief a righteous man who many centuries ago believed in a single standard of morality. The story of Joseph is conceded by our best critics to be one of the greatest stories in all literature.
Questions
1. Which one of the brothers does Parker use as a villain?
2. Do you think this story has been enriched by following the Bible narrative as closely as it is followed? If so, tell why.
3. Discuss the lines that the author puts into the mouth of Rachel. Does he make her say the thing she would be likely to say?
4. Comment upon methods of trial and punishment in ancient times and in our own day.
5. Compare Zuleika with Lucretia Borgia. (See poem "Lucretia Borgia's Feast," page 481, September, 1928, Relief Society Magazine. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 169 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson 14. Adolescence. (Based on Chapter 15, '""The Child, His Nature and His Needs.'') 
In this chapter we come to grips with the age-old problem of adolescence. The material summarized for us here is a digest of the rich experience of Dr. Winfield Scott Hall, formerly of the Northwestern University Medical School and a frequent contributor to the literature of the adolescent period, its problems, regime and hygiene. The materials presented by Dr. Hall in this chapter are sufficiently clear and comprehensive from the standpoint of medicine and traditional psychology, so that we shall not attempt here in this lesson outline, any elaboration. We shall, in the following paragraphs, call attention to some important yet neglected phases of the subject. This is done by way of supplementing the material contained in the book. Some Neglected Phases of Adolescence Most analyses of this period of human growth deal with the physical and the so-called psychological characteristics, only. The authorities on the subject have limited themselves to a description of such things as changes in height, weight, voice, the sudden maturing of the so-called social instincts, the rise of sex consciousness and what Dr. Hall in this chapter calls "'reciprocal sex behavior." Students of the subject seem to have limited themselves unconsciously to an analysis of the physical and mental changes which are quite apparent during this period. The point is that few, if any, studies are available showing the changed social situations that affect adolescents at different periods of time. Assuming that our problem here is to explain and therefore control the behavior of adolescence in the year of grace, 1929: and assuming that behavior is a result, not merely of the capacity of the human organism for response, but also of the nature of the stimulus, it follows logically that we must take account of all those external (social) influences which "condition" (i. E., modify) the responses of the individual. ? Environment Must Be Considered Let us consider an analogy from the physical world. All of our readers have undoubtedly heard of the simple experiment in physics from which it appears that if two objects of different weights?say a stone and a feather?are allowed to drop through a vacuum they will fall at the same rate and reach the ground 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tugether. Yet under ordinary conditions?due to the resistance of the air?the stone falls faster and reaches the ground sooner than the feather. What is the meaning of this fact? Just this: that to account for the behavior of any object, we must take into consideration not only the nature and quality of the object, but also the nature and quality of the medium or environment in and through which the object behaves. The inference for behavior-study is probably clear, viz., that if we would understand human behavior, we must understand not merely the physical and niental structure of the human being (i. E., its capacity for response or behavior), but also the nature and quality of the environment and the outside stimuli which evoke, condition, and therefore modify the responses of the human being. Stated concretely, this means that in order to understand adolescence, or any other period of life, one must also take into account the nature and quality of the world or environment of the individual. It is not enough, for example, to discover that during adolescence the boy's heart increases rapidly in size, that he suddenly becomes awkward, self-conscious; lacking polish and social grace, etc. We must take into account and understand the influence of current ideas, customs, folkways, conventions, etc., which permeate his social world during the time he is growing up and is stepping, so to speak, on the threshold of adulthood. Youth Adopts the Behavior of Others It is not these sudden physical and mental changes from childhood to adulthood, detailed by Dr. Hall and others, which give parents the chief concern for adolescence today. As a matter of fact, parents are usually prepared for these rapid physical and mental changes. What present-day parents are most disturbed about, however, is the ease with which youth nowadays adopts the social and moral behavior-patterns of so-called alien groups. Take the concrete example of smoking. What gives most "Mormon" parents concern in this matter is that in spite of good hometraining, hours of devotion to Sunday School work, etc., their children?many of them?smoke with impunity. The same thing might be said about intoxicating beverages. Why is it? Is it because adolescence is a period of natural perverseness? Is it because the home, the Church, and the school have failed in their duty to teach the harmfulness of these and other habits or "ways" of life? Or is it largely due to the powerful?unusually powerful ?nature of the social patterns which prevail in the environment of adolescents today? It is our opinion that the so-called waywardness, moral laxity, and alleged perverseness of modern youth is due primarily to this last-named situation. Conditions Are Rapidly Changing Two things of importance might be said on this point further. In the first place there never has been in the history of the world such a shuffling, such an intermixture of cultural and moral standards, GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 171 as exists in American life today. The recency of this intermixture will be appreciated when one is reminded that within the memory of most of our readers, our social order?particularly in the Church?was once characterized by a homogeneity and a singleness of pattern which amounted almost to an insulation against the inroads of the behavior and moral patterns of the "outsider." In the second place, many of the things which modern youth are presumably addicted to are defined as wrong by their parents, but are, in their own minds, at least, merely innocuous folkways. Take, for instance, the current use of cosmetics. The majority of adolescent girls today use cosmetics in some form or other. If, however, the adolescent girl thirty years ago had used cosmetics as freely as does her daughter today, she would have been regarded as "fast" and more or less immoral, for the simple reason that, as a general rule, only the "fast" and immoral girl (except, of course, people of the stage) used cosmetics, and parents today are unconsciously applying the attitude of thirty years ago to the situation as it exists in 1929. The same thing might be said in the case of cigarette smoking. The young man, and certainly the young woman, who, thirty years ago, used cigarettes, stamped himself (or herself) as a member of a liberal, Bohemian, or even risque class. The New Freedom of Youth But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago. This simple fact, unfortunately, constitutes a serious stumbling block to our well-intentioned efforts to deal with youth in the modern world; we unconsciously apply to youth today the moral standards of a generation or so ago. They will not work. It seems not too much to say, therefore, that a most fruitful field for further inquiry, in any attempt to understand and constructively motivate the adolescent of today, is the realm of these economic and socio-psychological forces. (This is not meant to depreciate, at all, the importance of the physical and mental characteristics of adolescence. ) For the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. What are the distinguishing characteristics of pre-adolescence, adolescence, and adulthood? 2. When should a boy and a girl normally reach puberty? 3. Should pre-adolescent children be put in the same grade as older adolescents? Why? Or why not? 4. Is it possible that children adopt vulgar sex expressions because of our failure to provide them with the correct and dignified terms for anatomical parts and bodily processes? 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 5. What does Dr. Hall mean by the '"wood-and-water-loving period of pre-adolescence?"' 6. When should sex instruction begin? By whom should it be given? 7. Why is it wrong to attempt to control self-abuse in the child by "threatening" him with insanity? 8. Is it possible that many adolescents go to extremes in the use of tobacco, liquor, etc., in order merely to assert their independence of their parents? 9. Is it wiser to keep adolescent boys and girls from smoking, drinking, etc., by not letting them see smoking or drinking in others (or reading or hearing cigarette advertisements) for instance, or by developing within them a certain moral immunity, so that they might live in a world of cigarettes, liquor, and other harmful things, yet still be immune to their influence? 10. To what extent can a community, even a state, resist or control the tremendous influence of the economic forces which are at work in American life today? Does it not seem necessary or feasible, in order to counteract these modern tendencies, to employ the same ingenuity and resourcefulness in promoting "the 'Mormon' way of life" that is now employed in launching a new brand of cigarette, for example? A Reverie I am a child, And all is spring Birds and butterflies awing; All in nature seem to sing For happiness. The scene is changed; The time is June. The roses bud and burst in bloom; Sweet fragrance bathes the silver moon And lovers dream. The dream's come true; The harvest's come! The ripened fields; the happy home! Serenely calm 'neath heaven's dome, Smiles Autumn time. Winter and age? But 'neath their shroud Rest flowers, the birds, the bees, the crowd. All nature in sweet sleep is bowed Waiting for Spring. Furniture to interpret the personality of your home GLY furniture Is never a good bhuy?no matter how low its price. That is why we look first for genuine beauty in every Piece before we offer it to you. Consider, if: you please, that furniture is not something you purehase every day. Usually such purehases are made after considerable thought, and are expected to last a long time. While it is possible to purchase a table for a dollar?or for several thousands?don't, we urge you, be stampeded by glaring headlines into a false economy. Own furniture by which you are willing to be judged?the kind that truly interprets your taste. And make your selections here ?where large stocks afford ample choice?and fair prices assure greatest permanent values. And remember you always pay less at Dinwoodey's. ESTABLISHED 1852 DINWOODEY'S "GOOD FURNITURE " D) Get Our Free Seed And Nursery Book It Tells How, What, and When to Plant A Garden Full of Gladioli for $1.00 30 flowering bulbs embracing twelve choice named Gladiolus. All Postpaid. Mention this paper and enclose $1.00 we'll do the rest, Porter-Walton Co. Seed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY Your Own Road Operates for your convenience 32 passenger trains daily between Payson, Provo, Magna, intermediate points and Salt Lake City. Year round weekend excursion rates. Excursion tickets at very low rates are on sale for every Spring and Fall Conference. Remember that it costs less to return home each evening than to spend the night in Salt Lake City. Patronize The Home Road When You Route Your Freight Shipments SALT LAKE & UTAH RAILROAD  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Myers Self-Oiling Home Water System PATENTED SELF-OILING Complete Fig. 2510 Automatic Control Air Bound or Water Logged AUTOMATIC Tanks Eliminated AIR VOLUME No Personal Attention Necessary Designed for Operation from any kind of City Current or from Farm Lighting and Power Systems For use in Cisterns or Shallow Wells up to 22 feet in Depth CAPACITY 250 Gals. Per Hour 300 Gals. Per Hour Floor Space 25" x 29" x, 52" High The Myers Self-Oiling Home Water System is automatic. Its operation is controlled by an electric switch which automatically starts the Pump when the pressure in the tank falls to 20 pounds and stops the Pump when the pressure reaches 40 pounds. The pressure is always maintained between these two points. The maximum pressure can be raised as high as 50 pounds if desired; however, 40 pounds is recommended. "DISCHARGE TO HOUSE LINE PRIMER VACUUM,? The air supply in the tank is controlled by the automatic Air Volume Control. No personal attention necessary. PRICE LIST, Represented by Fig. 2510 For Full Information on Your Water Problems Write Consolidated Wagon & Machine Co. When-Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 40 Branches?Utah Salt Lake City, Utah, 50 Agencies?Idaho USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE 

 PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. ?YZ "| Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M?5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Sugar vs. Cigarettes Which is more important?the support of our industries which refine Utah Sugar and those which use Utah Sugar in their finished product, or, the appeal to SMOKE a certain brand of cigarettes? Does cigarette smoking actually produce the effect implied? Does it improve the health and appearance of the race? Sugar builds vitality necessary for the wellbeing and appearance of mankind. Don't be misled. Use Utah Sugar for health's sake. Don't undermine your resistance?build up yourself and Utah. Use Utah Sugar The equal of any sugar in the world. 100% Pure and White. 100% Fine and Wholesome. 100% for Utah. "A bit ef sweet makes the meal complete" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Happiness Guaranteed MINUTES WASH * * 1 MINUTE DRY LACE six sheets or more into the washing compartment. In 5 minutes these are beautifully washed. Then in a moment transfer the whole load to the extractor. One-two-over goes the lid and the Starting lever?and hum goes the extractor. In one minute the water is whirled from the clothes. The Apex is safe, quiet and smooth running. See it when next in our store, or, phone for a home demonstration. (WRINGER-LESS WASHER Inter-Mountain Electric Co. Iron Fireman Stokers are heating the following L. D. S. Buildings Reducing fuel and labor costs to the THE IRON FIREMAN: Idaho?L. D. S. Seminary, Preston; L. D. S. Amusement Hall, Shelley; Malad First Ward Chapel, Malad. Utah?L. D. S. Fifth Ward Chapel, Lehi; L. D. S. Institute, L. D. S. Stake House, L. D. S. Tabernacle, L. D. S. Tenth Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Temple, Logan; L. D. S. Temple, Manti; L. D. S. 15th Ward Chapel, Ogden; L. D. S. Seminary, Richmond; L. D. S. First Ward, Riverton; L. D. S. Second Ward Chapel, Salina; L. D. S. Ninth Ward, L. D. S. Second Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Seventeenth Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Southgate Ward, L. D. S. Thirty-First Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Twenty-Seventh Ward Chapel, L. D. S. Wasatch Ward, Salt Lake City; L. D. S. West Jordan Ward, West Jordan; Lund School for Boys; Centerville; L. D. S. Seminary, Logan; Brigham Young University, Provo. SOLD BY Forced Underfiring Corporation Our Show Room will be open for Visitors DURING APRIL CONFERENCE 173 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY DENVER OMAHA CHICAGO minimum and providing greater improved heating conditions When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 43-69 EAST FOURTH SOUTH WASATCH 354 QUALITY STORE --since 1859-- MAIL ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY SALT LAKE CITY Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE RULING AND AND BANK BOOK FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City MRS OLIVIA F ANDERSON 3rd EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH Experts prove "Wringing makes the Clothes CLEAN! For homes without electricity, the Maytag is available with in-built gasoline motor, THE squeezing action of the Maytag Roller Water Remover forces out the last bit of dirt that would dim the clothes, the last particle of soap that, if allowed to dry in, would rot the fabric. Developed at a cost of over a quarter in improvement in soap and water removal methods. Phone for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn?t sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred Payments You?ll Never Miss Maytag Intermountain Co. 211 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY Aluminum Washer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Vol. XVI No. 4 Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Round Trip Winter Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $50.50 via SAN FRANCISCO To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return $58.00 Proportionately: low fares from al] other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY?OCT. 1st TO MAY 15th FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS FROM DATE OF SALE For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES. WAS. 3008?3078 an Electric Range DOWN- and $6 Per Month During Our Great Sale Quality Ranges made by the world's largest manufacturers. Guaranteed fully and backed up by our well known service. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service S, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask your dealer for the famous Z, C. M. I. Factory-Made; MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children. 9-0z. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children ??SHELLED WALNUTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS SPRING LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1?New style, ribbed light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number.................$1.25
No. 2?Old style, ribbed light weight cotton, our standard summer weight.................$1.25
No. 3?Ribbed medium weight cotton, bleached. Our all season number.................$1.75
No. 4?Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton. Our double back number.................$2.25
No. 5?Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number.................$3.00
No. 6?High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people.................$4.00
No. 7?Light weight, new or old style, mercerized ? silky finish.................$1.75
No. 8?Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number.................$4.25
No. 9?Ribbed medium weight wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number.................$4.75
No. 10?100% pure worsted wool, medium weight. The ideal garment for those who want all wool.................$8.25
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
HEADQUARTERS FOR L. D. S. GARMENTS?THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street ? Block South of Temple Gates
Summer School! Built for Service
A broad selection of work in many departments, crystallized into six weeks, will make the 1929 Summer Session at:
The University of Utah
an outstanding one. Courses primarily for educators of the State will be featured, as well as courses of interest to community leaders. A rich choice of courses, broad in scope; graduate and undergraduate credit; courses toward group requirements; a choice to satisfy the most exacting.
In addition to an excellent local faculty composed largely of heads of departments, there will be over a dozen leading educators from all parts of the country. The faculty has been carefully chosen so as to offer the citizens of the State excellent work along the lines in which they are interested.
Exceptional Advantages for Study Are Available in Salt Lake City
One Term of Six Weeks?June 10 to July 19
Complete Summer Catalogue Will be Issued in April
SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle Flat Weave, a popular Light Weight.....$1.10 278 Medium Rib.....$1.20 208 A Good Number, Light Weight Rib.....$1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Light Weight.....$1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes.....$1.65 258 Double Carded Cotton, Med. Weight.....$1.95 628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight.....$2.25 264 Rayon Silk. Fine Quality.....$3.00 743 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight.....$2.00 754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight.....$2.25 908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy.....$2.75 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton.....$4.00
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer.
BEST EVER
Extra packed in ice.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices. Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed Extra Light Cotton Knee length..................$.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ? or long legs..............$.85
No. 74 Ribbed light weight Cotton..$1.10
No. 84 Ribbed Mercerized Lisle.....$1.85
No. 76 Ribbed light weight Lisle...$1.85
No. 64 Ribbed Med. light Cotton....$1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Heavy bleached....................$1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Heavy Unbleached Double Back........$1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Heavy Cotton bleached....................$2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Heavy Cotton Unbleached Double Back........$2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Weight 50% wool........................$3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight 50% wool........................$3.85
No. 32 Ribbed Med. Weight 50% Wool and Silk Stripe........$4.65
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck................$1.75
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without.............$1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT.................$37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if old or new styles are desired, also if for men or women and if old or new style. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL?When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
Cutler's GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES 36 So. Main
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
USE BENNETT'S PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring
Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids?
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE AND BANK RULING AND FORMS BOOK BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.?Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
What Price Used Cars?
NAME YOUR OWN PRICE BY BIDDING ON ANY USED CAR IN STOCK DURING SALE?APRIL 3rd to 18th
30 Days Free Service 30 Day Written Warranty 5 Days Free Trial
Norville Motor Co. Studebaker Distributors
We're Proud of Our Prices
Every item in our stores bears the selling price in plain unmistakable figures. We are proud of our low selling prices. Everyone pays the same price at an O. P. Skaggs System Store. Pay our store a visit next and you cannot help but notice how safe it will be for you to buy your foods there.
O. P. SKAGGS System Efficient Service
Expert LANDSCAPE PLAN?Free!
Our expert landscape artists will make a planting plan for your particular home grounds, suggesting what to plant and where to plant it?all without cost or obligation on your part. Just write or phone us.
Also ? get our new 1929 Spring Catalog. Free on request.
UTAH NURSERY CO. "46 Years of Growing Service" 2190 South State Salt Lake City Phone Hyland 2918
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
