[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 439 | General Feature | Cactus Radiance on Desert Dunes | Claire W. Noall]
[Cactus Radiance on Desert Dunes Claire W. Noall]

439 June 1968

 influence of Relief Seciety participation. Olympus Stake Relief Society President Iola Peterson and Magazine representative Alforette Liddle developed a very artistic table with ideas from the "Special Features" section. An elegant green corduroy tablecloth was enhanced with blue color accents used to portray the Magazine Honor Roll, articles written by General Authorities, the poetry contest winner (who, incidentally, was from their stake), as well as the addresses of special speakers taken from issues of the Magazine. It was a symphony in color. The General Board is grateful to these five stakes for so effectively carrying out the theme assigned to them, and for sharing their talents and ideas for the benefit of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Pasadena Stake President—Jasmine Ballard; Magazine Representative—Rose Simper. A woodpaneled house, with Magazine-covered pillars supporting the roof, reflected the influence of The Relief Society Magazine in four generations. Miniature paper-maché family figures were so lifelike as to seem irresistible. A tiny handmade grandma sat busily knitting, surrounded by her handwork_a sweater, braided rug, and knit suit, all scaled to size. A petite mother is shown, taking an actual cake out of the oven, while baby is being tenderly consoled by great-grandmother. Magazine helps for cooking, sewing, cleaning, and handwork were all depicted in a delightfully whimsical way. Every detail was carefully worked out to perfection. 440 CACTUS RADIANCE ON DESERT DUNES Claire Noall « From utter desolation, radiance springs when the nurture is right. Flamboyant beauty rises from the seemingly hostile sands of time. Some species in the plant kingdom say, or seem to say, "Here I am. Look! I have come into being. Life against death, when the rains speak. Brief, but all-giving, in exquisite form. Don't touch. My fragility is protected. Do not use the sense of feel except through sight. Live in my short moment forever through the memory of vision. You will never forget my scalloped cup on desert tracts in thorn and prickle. I am here. Stand your distance, but drink deep and full, forever to slake your longing for the exotic. I am fragility in the midst of thorns. Anything exotic spans but a passing moment of rare light, of translucent color, contour, cloud, or shadow. Ease the drouth of level lands in the landscape of the soul, when the rains of the dunes bring me to floral space. I am needed. I am needed for the perfection and for beauty, in the processions of the seasons—in the radiance of time."