[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 464 | Lesson | Homemaking The Life You Save Mary | Ellen Edmunds]
HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—The Life You Save Mary Ellen Edmunds Faculty Member, Brigham Young University College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1968 Southern Hemisphere: February 1969 OBJECTIVE: To instruct Relief Society members INTRODUCTION A young child became tangled in the bedding and suffocated. A young Scout, on a trip with some friends, fell out of the boat while fishing; when he was pulled out of the water, he had stopped breathing. Fortunately, in both cases, a life was saved. The mother of the young child had _ received training in mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and was able to revive her. The buddies of the Scout had received the same training in their scout troup and saved their friend's life. This technique of artificial respiration is important not only for mothers, but also for members of the family. Many cases are recorded where lives have been 464 in the technique of rescue breathing. Saved by young children who had received instruction in rescue breathing. For these reasons, this lesson has been included for the benefit of Relief Society mothers and their families everywhere. GENERAL RULES OF FIRST AID CARE Some general rules of first aid care might well be included before actual instructions in rescue breathing are given. These rules include, as perhaps the most important initial action in giving first aid: Keep calm. Much additional damage can be done by hasty, needless actions in the face of an accident. Actions must be made quickly but efficiently. When an accident has occurred, the victim should not be moved, unless it is absolutely necessary, until the extent of injuries has been determined. Breathing must be restored if not present. Bleeding must be stopped. Burns should be covered and kept as clean as possible. Poisons should be diluted as soon as possible. Each of these could be covered in much more detail, but the purpose of this lesson is to instruct mothers, more specifically, in the technique of rescue breathing. WHEN TO APPLY ARTIFICIAL BREATHING The body does not store oxygen, but has to receive continually a fresh supply through the lungs and the breathing process. Sometimes certain accidents and illness can cause breathing to stop, and in such cases, artificial respiration may be _ life-saving because it supplies oxygen to the body until normal breathing can be restored. Some of the conditions which might cause a person to stop breathing are drowning, choking, strangling, partial obstruction of the passages, electric shock, and poisoning. One thing you might first notice is cyanosis, or a bluish color of the skin, particularly the lips. There are, occasionally, conditions where it is not possible or advisable to use rescue breathing. An example of this type of situation is when the victim's face has been burned or otherwise injured so as to make the armlift method more practical and advisable. Instructions in this method of artificial respiration may be found in first aid manuals put out by the Red Cross. Lesson Department HOW TO APPLY RESCUE BREATHING The actual method of rescue breathing begins by moving the victim so that he is lying on his back. Make certain that the air passage is clear, or else all the "breathing" that you might do for the victim would be of no use. Foreign material can be removed from the victim's mouth with your fingers. Tilt the victim's head back, with the neck extended. (See illustration 1.) Next, you need to push or pull the jaw into a jutting position, so as to prevent the tongue from falling into the back of the mouth and blocking the air passage. This can be done by shpping your thumb into the mouth and pulling the jaw forward. Now you place your mouth over the victim's mouth. (See illustration 2.) If the victim is an adult, use one hand to pinch off the nose, to prevent the air from coming out the nose instead of going into the lungs; if a child is the victim, place your mouth over his mouth and nose. Your mouth should seal the victim's mouth so as to prevent air from escaping as you breathe. Now, taking a deep breath first, place your mouth over the victim's and blow vigorously. Turn your face to the side and inhale then repeat, twelve times a minute for an adult, twenty times per minute and not so vigorously for a child. Watch for the chest to rise. If you are unable to get air into the lungs of the victim, and you have done everything else correctly, some foreign material may be lodged in the throat. If a 

465 June 1968

 child hold him with his head down and slap sharply between the shoulder blades. If an adult, hold him on his head turned to the side, and use the same procedure. -Then, after the object is removed, proceed with rescue breathing. You must breathe deeply before blowing air into the victim's lungs, so as to get more oxygen to them (when you exhale, less of the air is made up of oxygen than when you inhale). If you become dizzy or "light-headed," decrease the number of times you breathe each minute and you will feel all right. The rest of the lesson period is for practicing this method by which you may save a life. HOME NURSING Mouth to Mouth Resuscitation BILL BLOW An inexpensive devise to use in the practice of mouth to mouth breathing is the new training' mannequin called "Bill Blow."' Instructions for making and using ''Bill Blow' are given. Materials Needed 1 Plastic bleach bottle (2 gallon with hollow handle) 1 Easy-Flow nipple 1 Piece of rubber tubing (8 inches long and 42-inch in diameter) 1 Small tube of latex rubber adhesive or household cement 1 Black felt pen 1 Plastic refrigerator bag (2 to 4 quart) 3 Rubber bands 1 Hinge 1 Cork (% inch in diameter) 1 Piece of wood (% inch thick, 2% inches long) Piece of wood (% inch thick, 914 inches wide and 16% inches long) Nails (3% inch) or pushpins Wire (42 inches long) Book (3 to 4 pounds) Screws Domes of Silence or Felt pads How to Make It —y fPPhWre ke DY Refer to the illustrations and directions to make a working dummy. On Tilt Head Far Back and Pull Chin Upward Iustration 1 Mouth to Mouth Mouth to Both Mouth to Nose Wlustration 2 466 = —— ha >5 = 7 5% a mezzo SSE SSS SSS SSS an hinge \ rubber band SIDE VIEW HEAD FLAT hinge + 8" —_-I dome of silence @~ & felt pod ' = a BOTTOM VIEW the side of the plastic bleach bottle opposite the handle, paint on facial features—such as closed eyes, ears, hair and mouth. Cut openings for the mouth and nose. Insert the Easy-Flow nipple at the upper hole to form the ''nose."' Cut and remove the portion of the handle as indicated in the illustration. Plug the lower end with a shaped cork or wood stopper held in place by rubber adhesive. Attach the rubber tube 'to the cut end of handle near the neck of the bottle. Replace the bottle cap. Insert the opposite end of the rubber tube into the gathered end of the plastic bag and fasten with a rubber band. Attach a hinge to connect the large piece of wood to the narrow end of the smaller wood strip. Bend the wire and fasten each end to the large piece of wood forming a loop as shown in the illustration. Adjust the length of the wire so that when it is looped over the screw in the small piece of wood, the hinged ends of the wood will be raised approximately three inches. Attach the "head" to the wood strip with a large rubber band looped around the ''foreLesson Department head"' and a smaller rubber band over the plugged end of the handle. Spread the plastic '"'lung'' bag evenly over the large board. How to Use It As in_ actual resuscitation, the dummy''s ''nose'' must be pinched in order that all air blown is directed to the "'lung.'' Also the ''head'' must be tipped back in order to ensure an open airway. To tip the head back, lift both hinged ends of the wood and foop the wire from the large piece of wood over the screw in the small piece of wood. This will straighten the otherwise pinched tube and provide an open airway. Place a 3 to 4-pound book over the plastic bag and hold in place with two % inch nails or pushpins on the bottom edge of the board. The weight of this size book will deflate the plastic bag at the proper rate and simulate the natural action of the '"'lungs.'' Blow the air in and let it out at a rate of about 12 times per minute. To provide each operator with a sanitary surface area around the dummy's "mouth,'' use a fresh sheet of aluminum foil over the ''mouth"' of the dummy. This material is easily available in rolls at all supermarkets or grocery stores. Cut the aluminum foil into 6-inch squares with a l-inch hole in the center to blow through. This material sticks to the plastic bottle and provides a clean surface. (Adapted from an article in ''Boy's Life' by the Primary Association, and published in the 'Supplement to the Guide Patrol Handbook."') USING "BILL BLOW" 467 . Bh ory wreteterenees Due dsryfoye AA AA AD + gle + > + she + at te +a ale aay Previews ns é » Don Dn Ada WF.