[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 471 | Lesson | Celestia | J. Taylor]
Celestia J. Taylor When we open the doors to our homes, we want those who enter to find an atmosphere of warmth and welcoming hospitality. We want them to feel that here is a place where they can be comfortable and at ease in attractive surroundings. When they do feel this way, we can consider it to be. A personal compliment, for, as we have learned, a home reflects the personalities of those who live within. This is equally true whether it applies to a small cottage, a mansion, a city apartment, or a farmhouse; and it is equally true no matter where or in what country we may be located. Some of us may say, 

471 June 1968

 "What if I don't have that kind of personality? What hope is there for me?" There is hope for any woman who has a desire to improve her surroundings, inside and out, so that they reflect qualities of beauty, good taste, and suitability. These qualities are, in a sense, inseparable, for nothing can be beautiful if it is not in good taste, nor in good taste unless it is suitable for its surroundings. It is comforting and reassuring to know that these qualities can be more easily developed at home than anywhere else by the application of simple principles and practices of family life and manners as well as environmental surroundings. This year's discussions will be concerned with these principles and practices whereby we can learn how to achieve beauty and good taste in our home environment and in our family relationships and thereby contribute to the development of spirituality in the home. Discussion 1—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To show that in order to keep the Sabbath day holy, physical preparations should be made. Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 Objective: To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time of joyous anticipation, happy association, and spiritual renewal. Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events. Discussion 4—Let's Be More Courteous; Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person. Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how, by becoming aware of our environment, we can appraise our homes and determine any necessary improvement. Discussion 7—Let's Go Inside Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on picture groupings and other wall accessories. Discussion 8—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 472 Lesson Previews Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on furniture arrangements and use of accessories. Discussions for Summer Months: June—Outside Housekeeping August—House Plants Northern Hemisphere: June 1969 Northern Hemisphere: August 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: January 1979 July—Gardening Appearance September—Garden Convenience and Safety Northern Hemisphere: July 1969 Northern Hemisphere: September 1969 Southern Hemisphere: December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: February 1970 SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Preview of Lessons for 1968-69