[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 404 | Special Feature | Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray | Riggs McKay]
Lois Eiss Forestville, Connecticut BIRTHDAY CONGRATULATIONS The world-wide sisterhood of the Church takes the opportunity on this June day to wish a happy birthday to Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our Prophet, David O. McKay. It was ninety-one years ago that her father proclaimed that she was a "ray of sunshine," and she would be known as "Ray." Sister McKay has been a ray of sunshine and a ray of hope to all who know her personally, and to all who glean strength from knowing her as the wife of the Prophet. No one could be more qualified to give advice on being a wife and mother than she whom we all admire. Through joyous, sunny days and through days of shadows she has maintained her inner strength and won happiness. Following are a few selections from a talk she gave to the Brigham Young University women which have meaning to every Latterday Saint woman: AT s = ATTITUDE OF HUSBAND AND WIFE TOWARD EACH OTHER There are many qualifications that a woman should have to be a good wife and mother, but the most important is patience—patience with children's and husband's tempers, patience with their misunderstandings, with their desires, with their actions. Even though girls associate with men in courtship, they do not understand men, which is one great cause for disagreement, heartache, and misunderstanding. If only women would understand that '"Man's love is of man's life a thing apart, 'tis woman's whole existence.". Men are so different that it becomes woman's artful duty not only to study but also to adjust.. Peace in the home is really woman's responsibility, and if she wants happiness, she must work for it—yes, and pay for it, too—by being at all times kind, loving, self-sacrificing, ready to help, ready to serve, in fact, loving to do anything the head of the house desires because his desires are also hers. And she must always remember that wisdom is made up of nine-tenths silence and one-tenth brevity. 404 Emma Ray Riggs McK Woman of the Year Award, April 21, 1966. Courtesy Deseret News Church Section June 1968 Gloom pushes people away from you. A sure way to bring gloom is to show that your feelings are hurt. You cannot live long with any human being and not have something come up to irritate you. "Offense we must expect. The question is what to do with it when it comes. And although we cannot help being hurt, what we can help is showing that we are hurt." Nine times out of ten when "hubby" hurts our feelings, it has been unintentionally or without understanding of the wound he made; and if we will simply keep the harsh word unspoken, keep smiling, and go about our business, the whole matter will disappear. But if we fuss every time we are bruised, irritation begins, and the separating process goes on. Another thing that causes irritability and quarreling is for the wife to criticize her husband. He cannot endure criticism. It stifles love.... With the Latter-day Saint marriage comes the understanding that man with his priesthood will stand at the head of the family. Some women are not willing to take a subordinate position.... It is impossible to teach respect for authority if the husband is belittled before the children. If a man is worthy to be at the head of the household, a wife should respect him and help him as the head. ATTITUDE OF PARENTS TOWARD CHILDREN If the mother does not have obedience when the child is very young, two or three years of age, she is going to have much trouble as the child gets older. Of all the ineffective ways of controlling children, threats are the most futile and harmful..... A child should be taught to do ordinary things as a matter of course without being bribed.... Children respond favorably to praise..... Home is the place where the parents must lead out in obedience, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness, courage, true dignity, and courtesy.... Treat all your children with equal affection.... Never deceive a child. ATTITUDE OF CHILDREN TOWARD EACH OTHER Amusement and fun are essential to peace in the home. Home should be made pleasant and agreeable. A silent home is a dull, sad place, and leads to melancholy. Music is soul-inspiring, and no money is thrown away for musical instruments.... Many a mother nearly distracted by a fretful child has been able to soothe him by softly singing a song to him. The art of rearing children peacefully and pleasantly is the art of becoming a child again, of growing up with them.... "There can never be a noble nation of ignoble households, nor a joyful nation of unhappy homes." The General Board wishes to take this opportunity on behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world to wish Sister McKay happiness in the days ahead. May she enjoy good health and all the blessings which she so richly deserves. (Excerpts from "The Art of Rearing Children Peacefully," an address delivered to Brigham Young University women students by Emma Ray Riggs McKay, April 12, 1952. Published by the Brigham Young University Extension Publications. Used by permission of the Office of President David O. McKay.)