[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 417 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Alice Randall (Wa We Ya Gesbhick Go Qua-Walk Around the Sun Lady), a Latter-day Saint of Mole Lake, Wisconsin, was honored as Wisconsin Indian Mother of the Year in 1967. A descendant of a long line of Chippewa chiefs, Mrs. Randali has been a leader among her people in developing arts and crafts, improving housing conditions, and in elevating moral and social conditions. Her children and grandchildren are gifted in music, painting, and dancing, as well as in various handicrafts. Mrs. Randall is an expert at beadwork, moccasin making, and the weaving of rugs. She is a meticulous keeper of records and has gathered and preserved the history of her people over several generations. Anne Ehrlich is a collector of butterflies for scientific research in the field of heredity. With her husband, Professor Paul R. Ehrlich of Stanford University, she has traveled widely and has made a specialty of the butterflies of New Guinea. Benedikte, Denmark's last unwed princess, recently became the bride of Prince Richard Casimir Karl August Konstantin Zu Wittigenstein Berleburg of Germany. The wedding brought to Frendsborg Castle, north of Copenhagen, Queen Mother Elizabeth of Britain, the princess' godmother; King Gustaf Adolf VI of Sweden, the maternal grandfather; King Olav of Norway, King Constantine and Queen Anne Marie of Greece, and others of the royal families of Europe. Queen Anne Marie is the bride's younger sister. Gina Bachauer, world-renowned pianist, is expecially noted for her outstanding technique and ''nobility of phrasing" in the rendition of Rachmaninoff's compositions. Miss Bachauer, a native of Greece, was for many years a student of Rachmaninoff, and traveled back and forth across Europe for her lessons during Rachmaninoff's concert tours. Peggy Fleming, nineteen, of the University of Colorado, is the world's champion in figure skating. In February at the Olympic Games in Grenoble, France, Miss Fleming retained her championship rating and made a new record of 166.4 points, with Gabriel Seyfert of East Germany totaling 154.0 points, and Beatrix Schuba, of Austria scoring 153.2 Federal Careers for Women, distributed by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government, Washington, D. C., describes preparatory steps to follow before selecting one of the many careers in Government service. The Federal Woman's Award is described in detail in the bulletin. Nursing Careers Among the American Indians (Superintendent of Documents, Washing: ton, D. C.) outlines the wide field of service in the Indian Health Program, and gives a resume of the personal and professional requirements for nurses in the ''wide open spaces" of the Indian lands. Mrs. Irene Porter, Roy, Utah, in cooperation with her husband, Clifford Porter, manages the H. And P. Custom Knit Company, which manufactures the official ski cap for the teams representing the United States in the Olympics competition. Handicapped workers are given preferred employment, and many women knit the caps in their own homes in the Roy area.