Lines to Sister Rowena M. Whipple. In memory of the death of her Soldier Son, on July 20, 1918. Sad mother, would I could bring you, In your hour of sore distress. One little ray of solace, Help to make your sorrows less. But I fear that words are futile To a heart so bruised with pain, While you listen at life's station For the whistle of the train. They are bringing all that's earthly. Of your soldier boy who died Far away from home and mother, Only strangers at his side. It is hard to thus behold him, Stricken in the prime of life. But you have this consolation: He is free from all earth-strife. And you know that his dear body Rests not on a foreign shore, But beside your other children Who have only gone before. Wrap the Stars and Stripes around him. Emblem of the true and brave, And with loving hands consign him To a soldier's honored grave. Three other soldier sons are fighting, For liberty they stand. Facing death in every battle. Struggling in a foreign land. Soldier mothers of this country All are suffering with thee, Praying God to fight our battles That this earth may be made free. Hasten on the time, dear Savior, When the fight for right is o'er, When the nations learn thy purpose And cease war forevermore. Mrs. Maud C. Oliver. Unusual Mothers. We present in this number the final assembled groups of our most unusual, and noble mothers in Israel. It seems impossible that we have in our comparatively restricted communities so many women who have been successful mothers of sixteen and more sons and daughters. With the twenty-seven mothers which we are presenting now there are 442 children reported, and among those who have given the number of grandchildren there are 286 and 3 great grandchildren. These sketches are the righteous answer to ungodly objectors who practice and preach birth-control. What a contribution to the Book of Life! Who may estimate its value? Who may picture the crowns studded with jewels of achievement which will rest upon the brows of these queens among their sex? As we close this interesting series of biographical portraitures we lay our own tribute of love and reverence at the feet of those who have come up out of the valley of death and birth into life everlasting. EVALINE AUGUSTA LAMB GIBBONS. Of St. Johns Stake. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Evaline Augusta Lamb Gibbons was born October 11, 1855, at Rice county, Minnesota. She was the fourth child of Osmer Lamb and Ruby Jane Fillmore. At the age of three years she crossed the plains locating in Salt Lake Valley, afterwards moving to Payson. When she was six years old her mother died, leaving eight small children. She remained in Payson at the home of Amasa Potter until 1870, when she went to the Muddy. Here she met and married William H. Gibbons, February 17, 1871. When the Muddy settlement was broken up they moved to Glendale, Kane county, Utah, where she lived until 1876. During the winter of '76 she with her three small children journeyed by wagon to Moencoppy, where her husband was laboring as an Indian missionary. In the summer of '78, they lived in Sanaya, New Mexico, (now Ramah). In the fall they moved back to Moencoppy. Here they were released from the Indian mission, by President Wilford Woodruff, and were called to settle St, Johns, Arizona, in 1879, by the same authority. Being among the first "Mormon" people in this settlement, she suffered many hardships, Her life has been spent on the frontier, where strong minds and true courage is the mettle needed to make a successful life. UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 551 Her husband lost his hand in the thresher during the fall of 1888. This made a hard time look gloomy, but health favored them and happiness was again restored. At the age of 47 she became the mother of her sixteenth child  ten boys and six girls, all being single births. She has nine children living. Her second son, Andrew Augustus, was murdered by outlaws, in 1900, while serving in a sheriff's posse, and in 1905 her oldest son was run over by a thresher, losing his life. She has endured much in life, yet she has been and is a devoted wife and mother. MARY MARIA ROUGHLEY ROWBOTTOM. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Mary Maria Roughley Rowbottom, daughter of Richard Roughley, was born at Digmoor, Upholland near Wigan, Lancashire, England, May 5, 1857. At the age of sixteen upon the death of her mother she was left to take care of her father's home. At the age of eighteen she was married to Lorenzo Rowbottom. Upon the death of her father's second wife she again kept house for his family until he married again. Although she and her husband were born in the Church, they were not baptized until 1878. The elders often visited their home and were always welcome. In April, 1873, Sister Rowbottom emigrated to America, her husband and oldest child having preceded her five months. They made their home at Almy, Wyoming, for twenty-five years, later removing to Cumberland, Wyoming. She is the mother of sixteen children  eight boys and eight girls. She has endured many trials in the deaths of her ten children, there being five girls and one boy now living. HARRIET LUCINDA McMURRY FAIRCHILD. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Harriet Lucinda McMurry Fairchild was born in Columbiana county, Ohio, July 18, 1840. She was married to Moroni Fairchild, January 18, 1855, at Grantsville, by Thomas H. Clark. Was later married in the Endowment House, September 19, 1865. Her schooling commenced at Pike county, Illinois. She came to Salt Lake City in 1852. Sister Fairchild was secretary of the Relief Society of Basin ward, Idaho, for fifteen years, was also treasurer. She was the last woman who left Salt Lake City at the time of the "move" south, in 1857. Once while her husband was on guard in Echo Canyon, she was left alone in Ogden for nine weeks. They lost 
 one child at the time they were in the fort at Grantsville, when the Indians were desperate. She pioneered to Utah in Company 7, walking the entire distance. She also pioneered from Utah to Idaho. Sister Fairchild was the mother of sixteen children. She died at Oakley, Idaho, April 27, 1917. MARY A. WHEELOCK WALTON. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Mary A. Wheelock Walton was born October 4, 1864, at Bountiful, Utah; daughter of Alphonzo and Sarah Wheelock. Her parents and grand parents were among the early settlers of Salt Lake Valley. She moved with her parents to Woodruff, Utah, in 1871, was married to Joseph H. Walton, December 22. 1880. She moved with her husband and her two children to Star Valley, in the spring of 1887, settled in Auburn where fourteen more children were born by her; thirteen were blessed by Bishop Heman Hyde. In 1913, the family moved to Alpine, Idaho, where they now reside. Sister Walton has been a member of the Relief Society since a young woman. She is deprived of that privilege at present, as there is no Relief Society organization in Alpine. She has devoted a great portion of her time among the sick, and is still administering to their wants. She has not a diploma for midwifery, but it has fallen to her lot to deliver fifty women, and she has nursed about three hundred. She has never lost one case, mother or baby under her care. LYDIA BUTTERFIELD MIDDLETON. Of Jordan Stake. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Lydia Butterfield was born in Taylorsville, Salt Lake county, Utah, August, 1861. She was the daughter of Jacob and Sarah Butterfield of "Mormon" Battalion parentage and of a large family. She married, when quite young, Thomas Middleton, of Union, who was killed with a pitchfork while threshing at Sandy. Afterwards she was married to Otis L. Terry and finally to Frank Cole. She is the mother of sixteen children, all born at Union, Salt Lake county. UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 
 MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Mary Ann Bahr was born about in Durham county, England, December 16, 1855. When about two years old her parents, Mr. John Daniel and Margaret Jane Brockett Grant, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in the year 1863, in the month of May, sailed for America, being on the water eight weeks and two days in a sailing vessel. Although just in her eighth year she remembers well the hardships endured by the company with which she was traveling, crossing the plains by ox team. They arrived in Salt Lake Valley late in October, going direct to Centerville. After living three or four years in Centerville she moved with her parents to Heber. At this place exciting times were had with the Indians. Her father having to be away most of the time to earn something for his family's support, she remembers being taken with her mother and three other children into town for protection by Bishop Murdock and other men, while the Indians helped themselves to all their cattle. After a year's time in Heber they moved to Salt Lake City, staying only a few months there; then they moved back to Centerville. In 1869, her father was influenced by a friend to move his family to Goshen, Utah. On account of her mother's health they remained only a year in Goshen. They then moved to Provo, where with ox team her father hauled rock which was then being laid in the walls of the Provo Woolen Mills. The following spring her father bought a lot and built a house in Salem to which he moved his family. They have made their home in Salem since that time. In 1874, she married C. O. Bahr and to them were born sixteen children, of which only six are living. During the twelve years that her husband handled all kinds of produce between Salem and the Tintic mining camps, the responsibility of the family was shouldered by her. In 1885 her father (who was a miner) was seized with miner's consumption and came to live with her, being more or less of a care for six years. He lost his eyesight six months before his death, which occurred May 1, 1893. In 1890 her husband was called to perform a mission in his native land, Germany, returning in 1892. It was while he was away that a daughter was born, at which time her friends thought she would not live to see her husband return. In 1901 her brother's wife died leaving a babe two weeks old, 554. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. which could get no better care than with her aunt Mary Ann. For two years the child was never well, and for four months had spinal disease and was carried on a feather pillow, during which time its foster mother never had her clothes off, lying down only for short naps as she could get them. The physician said the child could not wholly recover, but to the surprise of everyone, she is now in her seventeenth year and is strong and healthy. Sister Bahr has mothered and cared for many other children at intervals of from one month to two years. While she is unassuming in her nature she has always admonished her children to do right. Always ready with her offerings and willing at all times to sacrifice for her children. She has been a widow since 1905. She still attends to her household duties, her health in general being good; she feels best when waiting on table or seeing that others are supplied first. She has been a member of the Relief Society since 1875 or 1876. She is now a member of the Red Cross. Has been knitting socks for the soldiers, having knit two pairs for her nephew at Camp Kearny, two pairs for a young friend in France, and also two pairs for a friend at Fort Douglas, on her own accord, and is now ready to help the Red Cross. MARY BRITTON LOVELESS. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. Mary Britton Loveless was born August 30, 1840, in Birmingham, England. She married James W. Loveless, September 1, 1856, and is the mother of eighteen children. She has been a teacher in the Relief Society for about eight years. Her residence is now Provo, Utah. CATHERINE McGUIRE KNIGHT. Catherine McGuire Knight was born at Georgetown, Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, October 15, 1833. Her mother's name was Charlotte Ash and her father's name William W. McGuire. In 1838, her father heard the Prophet Joseph Smith preach at the home of Bishop Hunter, not far from his home in Pennsylvania. He also went to a conference in Philadelphia presided over by Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother. He heard the word and believed it, and the same year was baptized by Elisha H. Davis. In 1842, he moved to Nauvoo. There he bought land from the Prophet and paid his tithing. On February 10. 1844, Sister Catherine M. Knight and her sister were baptized by Caleb Baldwin. Their father thdi gave the two girls a five-dollar gold piece, and asked if they would like UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 555 to give it to the Prophet. They were pleased to do that and he took them to the home of the Prophet. The Prophet shook hands  with the father and said, "How are you, Brother McGuire?" The father said, "Brother Joseph, my Httle girls wish to give you a small present." He reached his hand to her and,said, "So you want to give the Prophet a present, do you?" She said, "Yes," and laid the gold in his hand and he laid his hand on her head and said, "God bless you with a double blessing." Then her sister gave her gold piece and he laid his hand upon her head and said, "God bless you with a double blessing." The 27th of June, 1844, Joseph and Hyrum were murdered in Carthage and Sister Knight saw Joseph and Hyrum in their cofifins. She also saw President John Taylor after he was in his gore wounded in Carthage. With martyrs he bled. In 1846 the family were driven out of Nauvoo with the rest of the Saints. They got over the Mississippi river all right. Then came Bishop Hunter; next came Joseph F. Smith and his mother. They crossed Iowa and got to Winter Quarters and stayed there two winters, then went back to Iowa to get cattle to come to the Valley. In 1852 they crossed the plains. Sister Knight and her sister drove one of the wagons with three yoke of cattle. They reached Salt Lake in 1852. April 24, 1853, she was married to Alonzo Knight.' On May 31, 1854, her first baby was born. She has had a large family of children and has 62 great-grandchildren. July 24, 1857, the family were invited to Brigham Young's celebration at the headwaters of Big Cottonwood. While there Porter Rockwell came dashing up to say they had killed Apostle Parley P. Pratt and that the mob was on their way to kill them all. Brother Knight then went into the mountains with General Daniel H;. Wells and others to help keep the mob from coming. Brother and Sister Knight are still living, the husband being 87 and the wife 84 years of age. ELIZA ANN CLEMENTS KENDALL. MOTHER OF TWENTY CHILDREN. Eliza Ann Clements Kendall, daughter of James and Elizabeth Clements, was born in Weber county, Utah, February 25, 1857. She was married to Joseph Bradford Kendall, December 25, 1874, and is the mother of twenty-one children, namely: Joseph Bradford Kendall, father of three children, filled a mission to the Southern States; lames Edward, died at two months; Eliza Ann, mother of twelve children; Albert Newel, father of three children, died at thirty-five years; Charles Allen, father of nine children; John Royal, died in infancy; Mary Lizzie, mother of eight children; Maria Ellen, died at fourteen months; Percinda 
 Ether, widow; William Edwin, father of four children; David Earl, father of three children; Lucy May, died at fifteen months; Ada Elvira, died at four months; George Elmer, died at twentyone years; Elner Jane, died at sixteen months; Alford Laurel, at home; Rosy Vidella, mother of one child; Clarence Leroy, died in infancy; Dollie Edith, at home; Florence, died in infancy. All were married in the temple but four. Sister Kendall also reared five of her husband's brothers and sisters from three years and up till married, and helped to rear three of her own brothers and sisters. She is now helping to rear her grandchildren and is in good health. She has had nine children married, forty-three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren living. Oh, what a glorious record is here! ANNIE HARRIS SPENCER. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Annie Harris Spencer was born in London, England, August 4. 1861. When she was seven years old she with her parents came to this country, crossing the plains with an ox team. She and the other children walked most of the way. After arriving in Salt Lake City they lived there for some time, finally moving to Randolph, Rich county, Utah, where they have since resided. When eighteen years old she was married to Orson John Spencer. She is the mother of sixteen children, and has also reared six children of Brother Spencer's first wife, who passed away. Sister Spencer has been a Relief Society teacher for years, and still attends to these duties. Two of her sons have filled missions. ROSINA ALLEN WILLIAMS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Rosina Allen Williams was born in Springville, Utah, in 1852. Six years later her parents were called to help settle St. George. They had not been there long when the mother fell ill; and the little girl learned to spin while so small that she had to stand on planks to reach her work. She also learned to sew and knit, and when she was eleven years old she did all the weaving for a family of ten. She spent her nineteenth summer in Springville, and married David Williams while there. They went together to her parents' home in southern Utah, In 1881, they moved into northern UNUSUAL MOTHERS Top row, left to right: Evaline Augusta Lamb Gibbons, Mary Maria Roughley Rowbottom, Harriet L. McMurray Fairchild, Mary A. Wheelock Walton, Lydia Butterfield Middleton. Second row, left to right: Mary Ann Daniel Bahr, Mary Britten Loveless, Catherine McGuire Knight, Eliza Ann Clements Kendall. Third row, left to right: Annie Harris Spencer, Rosina Allen Williams, Martha Vail Van Noy, Martha Ella Backster Raid. 
 Arizona, and about ten years later they. moved to the St. Joseph stake, in southern Arizona. Mrs. WilHams is the mother of sixteen children, one having died before birth. Her eldest daughter died while on a mission with her husband on the Samoan Islands, leaving a two-weeks-old baby girl, who was sent home to Mrs. Williams. She mothered this little girl for about four years. Since that time Mrs. Williams has lost seven girls and one boy. She has always made a beautiful home, no matter how humble the building, and she has always been a devoted mother. Since her family has grown,up she has spent a great deal of time caring for the sick and needy. She has unusual skill in all kinds of fancy work. A most beautiful characteristic of her home is its hospitality, as the young and the old, the rich and the poor have always found a welcome there. Mrs. Williams has been a Relief Society teacher for many vears, and is president of the Franklin ward Relief Society at the present time. Though she has passed through poverty and sorrow, sickness and death, she is still full of hope, courage and faith, and her most earnest prayer is that her children will remain true to the faith. MARTHA VAIL VAN NOY. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Martha Vail Van Noy was born November 24, 1870, in Franklin, Oneida county, Idaho. She is the daughter of Isaac H. and Tyresh A. Vail. Her parents were among the early settlers of Cache Valley. She married Thomas L. Van Noy, January 13, 1887, in the Logan temple. They moved to Star Valley, in i889. She is the mother of sixteen children, one of whom died in infancy and one at the age of sixteen. She has fourteen living children  seven boys and seven girls  and thirteen grandchildren. Every one is mentally and physically strong in every way. All her life she has been called to help others in sickness of all kinds, being naturally gifted along that line. Brother Van Noy had one of the first general mercantile stores in lower Star Valley, and Sister Van Noy was his main helper in this great work; and this work together with her own family cares and the helping of others in sickness and death has indeed made her life a very active one. She has always been an earnest worker in the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., and at present is a genealogical worker. UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 559 She has always been a kind and loving wife and mother, and is loved by all. MARTHA ELLA BACKSTER REID. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Martha Ella Backster Reid was born March 2, 1864, at Purdy, Virginia. Her father died from diphthera a little more than three months before her birth. When four years old her mother married again, and with her mother and stepfather she lived until she was married. At the age of seventeen she married William M. Allen, to which union were born twelve sons and three daughters, all in good health. She has experienced many hardships in her old \^irginia home, as her husband had to work for 30, 35 and 40 cents a day to keep his family from perishing. At one time when her husband was away at work they ran out of food and she was compelled to take one of her little ones, leaving the others with her mother, and walk about three miles with nine eggs to get fliour for their breakfast. At this time her stepfather had died and her mother lived with her until her death, and they experienced many trials together. At another time, when her husband was away at work they ran out of feed for their cows. They fed them the straw out of their beds, after which she was compelled with her elder children, leaving the smaller ones with her mother, day by day to walk about five miles to get straw and chafif to keep their cows alive. The first "Mormon" elders she had ever seen came to her house when she had a sick babe. She gave them all the bread she had for their dinner, had no flour, but expected her husband home that night with some, but he failed to get home as she expected. Owing to the sickness of her child she learned nothing of their message and mission. She had a dream later that two men came to her house with books to sell and books to give away. About four months afterwards two "^lormon" elders came to her door and asked for entertainment and were received. She tokl her n:other they were the ones she had dreamed about. After the teaching of the elders her mother declared that "Mormonism" was the true gospel that had come to them and that she was going to join the Church and she didn't care what others said; she wanted her daughter also to accept it. At first her husband was opposed to her baptism, but later gave his consent, and herself and mother were baptized together, her mother leading the way. Later she married J. T. Reid, to which union were born two 
 girls, making five girls and twelve boys. She is now a teacher in the Relief Society, having a distance of over nine miles to travel to visit her district. HARRIET CLARK FEWKES. Of Cassia Stake. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Harriet Clark Fewkes was born March 23, 1856, in Birmingham, Warwickshire, England. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by David P. Kimball when eight years of age. She emigrated to Utah in 18'66 with her parents, John Clark and Caroline Hopkins Clark. Came across the sea in a sailing vessel by the name of John Bright; was on the sea four weeks and four days. Crossed the plains by ox team with Captain Henry Chipman's company, being nine weeks coming over the plains. After the family arrived here they went to live in Summit county, Utah, where she married Thomas Fewkes, June 8, 1873, and she resided there until August 31, 1916. They went to Burley, Idaho, one year ago. She is the mother of sixteen children  eight boys and eight girls, ten of whom are living. She has 53 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Sister Fewkes has been a member of the Relief Society for 55 years, and is now a teacher in the Society in the B,urley First ward. Her general activity is farm work. Her health is good and she delights in being charitable and helping all she can in the community where she lives. HARRIET S. PERRY WHITING MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Harriet S. Perry Whiting was born at Springville, Utah, November 29, 1855. Her mother being left alone with three small children, they passed through all the hardships of pioneer life and were obliged to do any kind of work to help maintain the family. They gleaned wheat to buy their first set of knives and forks which cost five dollars. She worked three months taking care of a neighbor's baby and helping in any way a small child can, for a pair of shoes; three weeks for a dress, and because she got homesick her older UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 561 sister went and helped house-clean two days to finish paying for the dress. She was married December 23. 1873, to Albert M. Whiting-; to them were born sixteen children, seven sons and nine daughters. With the exception of two daughters who live in Idaho, all her children are living in Alapleton within a mile of their home. Little can a person who has never tried to take care of a large family realize the amount of work it takes to keep a family. For she has reared fifteen of her children, has done all her own work, making all their clothing, even the men's suits, knitting, etc. She was obliged to let her girls go out to work most of the time when they were not in the school. All of the children are living faithful lives in the Church. Two of the boys have filled missions, another has taken the missionary course at the Brigham Young University. Twelve of the children have attended the Brigham Young University, four having done college work. Three are now teaching school. Owing to the death of her husband eleven years ago, Sister Whiting has had the responsibility of the higher education of practically all her children. ASENATII EMELINE SPENCER MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. . Asenath Emeline Spencer, daughter of Isaac V. and Asenath E. Carling was born October 5, 1851, in Fillmore City, Millard county, Utah. She is the mother of sixteen children  ten living and six dead. She married Howard Orson Spencer, February 1, 1877. They had sixteen children as follows: Isaac Carling, Aurelia, Mabel May. Howard. Malinda Elizabeth, Ruby, Viola, Leone, Verda and Alvin Heaton living; and Emma, Edna, Iva, Alva, Sarah, Ann and one boy dead. All the living ones are married, and rearing families, except Howard, Verda and Alvin. These are the ten living children and there are thirty-six grand children. None of these use tea, coflfee or tobacco. ROSE H. GRANT. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. Rose H. Grant was born December 13, 1859, at Wendsbury, Staffordshire, England. She was married at the age of fifteen to William Grant on the 17th day of May, 1875. She has resided in 
 American Fork continuously since her marriage, excepting the time spent in exile, during"the raid." Sister Grant was quite a prominent figure during these days of persecution, as she was the only woman who was tried before a jury. She is the mother of eighteen chiklren, twelve of whom are now living. Her path has not always been smooth, but under all circumstances her patience and sweet disposition helped her gain the love and confidence not only of her own family but of al^ who knew her. Her labors in the Relief Society have been quite extensive, acting as counselor to Sister Elizabeth J. Durrant in the First ward of American Fork for years, and she is at the present time counselor to Charlotte Greenwood in the same ward. Sister Grant says, "I am in the best of health and do all my own work." Her labors in the community are appreciated; and by the ties of love and friendship she is "Aunt Rose" to all. ELIZABETH WATTS FIFE. Of Providence, Utah. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. Elizabeth Watts Fife, daughter of Robert Watts and Elizabeth Heath, was born March 22, 1839, near Vicksburg, Hines county, Mississippi. She with her parents came to Nauvoo. Illinois, in 1842. Here she was taken to fast meeting and blessed by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In 1846 the family left Nauvoo and started to Utah, but was delayed on the road and did not arrive in Salt Lake Citv until 1850. The journey was made by ox team. The family located on the Weber river, about seven miles from Ogden. She was married to James Fife. November 28. 1856. She with her husband moved to Providence. Cache Vallev. March 12. 1860. To this couple has been born eighteen chiklren  thirteen boys and five girls. Eleven of these have grown to manhood and womanhood, seven dying during childhood. Sister Fife has 68 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren. She has always enjoyed the best of health and now, at the age of seventy-eight, is remarkably strong and active. She has always been an active teacher in the Relief Society ever since the organization of that society in Providence ward, and fhe last few years she has been an ardent temple worker. UNUSUAL MOTHERS Top row, left to right: Harriet Clark Fewkes, Harriet S. P. Whiting, Asenath h,melme Spencer, Rose H. Grant. Middle row, left to right: Rose H. Grant, Elizabeth Watts Fife, Martha Elizabeth Wayman, Jane Smitts Wells, Sarah A. Murdock Lindsay. Bottom row, left to right: Lucy Ann Allred, Rebecca Richardson, Tane Hutchings Mary E. Owens Bradshaw. " 
 MARTHA ELIZABETH WAYMAN. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Martha Elizabeth Wayman was born November 14, 1864, in Tooele city, Utah. She is the daughter of Oscar Orlando and Elizabeth Taylor Stoddard. When five years old she moved with her parents to West Porterville, Morgan county, and remained there until the May before she was married, when she came to Salt Lake City. She was married in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, October 4, 1883. She is the mother of seventeen children, the youngest is now nine years old. She has three sons in the army and four more ready to go when needed. Her children are all intelligent, healthy and strong  four are yet at home. She is also rearing' five orphan grandchildren. Sister Wayman is enjoying good health, doing all her house work, and is always cheerful and feels that the Lord has greatly blessed her. She has been a worker in the Relief Society since she was fifteen years old, and at present is counselor to Ellen Larsen in the Molen Relief Society. JANE SMITTS WELLS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Jane Smitts Wells was born at Sheldon, Warwickshire, England, October 1, 1860. She married Charles Wells. October 15, 1878, at Overwhitare, England, and embraced the gospel, March 2, 1893. Emigrated to Utah with their family of children in 1908, and settled in Provo, where they still reside. Sister Wells is the mother of sixteen children  seven girls and nine boys. One son is now in the service of our country, over in France. Sister Wells has ever been faithful and true to the gospel, and has taught its principles to her family. Her whole life has been one of service for others, such as no one else knows except those who have reared so large a family. SARAH A. MURDOCK LINDSAY MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Sarah A. Murdock Lindsay was born March 2, 1853. in Davis county, Utah. While a very young child she went with her parents to Carson, Nevada, where an attempt was being made to build up UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 565 a "Mormon" colony. Conditions being vinfavorable, they moved back to West Jordan, then to American Fork. In 1862 the family moved to Heber, Wasatch county, Utah. Here she helped them with their various duties which were mainly in making cheese and butter; taking care of the sheep; washing, picking and carding wool; spinning the wool and weaving it into cloth for dresses, suits, and blankets. She often joined with the other sisters in the old time "spining bees." Each girl or woman would take her spinning wheel at sunrise and would go to spend the day helping some neighbor woman spin her rolls. The next day all would go to another home, each woman taking her turn at being hostess. Thus the work seemed less tiresome, arid good will and sociability prevailed. She has always loved the society of her friends, and as a girl often joined with them in the dances given in the boweries with no floors, or in the school houses which had rough, board floors. All dressed in home spun, and if they wore any shoes they were made by the shoemaker out of hides tanned at thg; "Old Tannery." It is interesting to note that she wore such a pair of shoes three years, and, being unable to wear them out, gave them to her brother. December 15, 1868, she married Robert Lindsay who had come from Scotland for the sake of the gospel a few years previous. Shortly after marriage the young couple moved to a farm three miles east of Heber where they built a comfortable home afid made a good living as both had learned habits of industry early in life. Besides the work of caring for their large family she and her husband always had time to minister to the wants of the poor, the sick and the 'discouraged. Many have looked to them for help and encouragement. Their home was one of hospitality and industry. After her husband's sudden death, in 1911, she moved to Provo, so that she might more easily keep her children in the B. Y. University. At this school one of her sons completed the Commercial course, one the High school course, one daughter completed the Normal course, two daughters have taken out degrees, and others of the children have attended the school. For eight years Sister Lindsay took care of a little motherless grand daughter. She now has eleven living children and thirty-five living grandchildren. Two of her grandsons enlisted and are now in the U. S. Army. 
 Sister Lindsay is still a worker in her home and in the Relief Society. She is taking her part in doing Red Cross knitting for our soldiers and is still able ami willing to help those in distress and has a cheering word for the downhearted. She says, "The Lord has always blessed me and helped me. When sickness and death came into my home, He was my comfort and my support. I feel to thank Him for my children, and for His wonderful support to me throughout my life." LUCY ANN ALLRED. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Lucy Ann Allred, the daughter of Reuben Warren and Lucy Ann Allred, was born April 24, 1845, in Hancock county, Illinois. She married Sidney R. Allred, May 13, 1860, at Ephraim, Sanpete county, Utah. She died in Spring City, September 17, 1906. She was the treasurer of the Relief Society for ten years, at Chester, Utah. She was the mother of sixteen children, of whom seven survive her. They are: Calvert L. Allred, of Stanford, Arizona; Minnie D. Barney, of Spring City, Utah; May E. Peterson, Salt Lake City; Ida E. Ling, of Lemhi, Idaho; Mariett Kelsey, Spring City, Utah; Bertie G. Boreman, Gilmorg, Idaho; William B. Allred, of Spring City, Utah. MR.S. REBECCA RICHARDSON. Sister Rebecca Richardson was born January 19, 1873. Her last child was born January 25, 1918. Three boys and eight girls are still alive; two of the girls have been married in the Salt f-ake Temple. Poverty of the most stinging and humiliating nature that c;m be suffered by a Latter-day Saint has been bravely and smilingly borne by this good woman, and she has never lost her faith in the work, for she would give u.p all for the gospel's sake. Once taking one of her babies, she went into a store of a town where she was comparatively unknown and the lady clerk who was waiting on her said: "That is a fine child you have there. Is that your first?" "This is my tenth." replied the mother, whereupon the clerk threw up both hands, a dazed look coming over her face. Sister Richardson is a thorough Latter-day Saint and is one of the most modest and retiring of women. She knows nothing of the writing of this sketch and it will be a surprise when she reads it in the Mas.azine. UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 
 JANE HUTCHINGS. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. 0 Mrs. Jane Hutchings was born at Spanish Fork, Utah, April 3. 1859; married in 1875 to Carlos L. Hutchings. She is the mother of eighteen children  ten healthy and good.sons and eight faithful daughters. This is the simple annal of a great woman. MARY E. OWENS BRADSHAW. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Mary E. Owens Bradshaw was born in 1864, in Fillmore. Utah. She went to. Dixie with her father's family when.she was about nine years old, that her father might work on the St. George temple. Many of the older people of St. George will remember B. Owens, Horacewhere city, her father. they lived for several family moved later to Virgin Theyears. October 12. 1881, in the St. George temple she was married to Edward E. Bradshaw, by Brother David Cannon. They lived in Arizona and Mexico for a time until they were driven out of Mexico, when they came to Hurricane to live. Sister Bradshaw is the mother of seventeen children  ten boys and seven girls, one pair of twins. One of the twins died at birth, and four other children have died since. She has twenty-five grandchildren, but some of them are dead. Sister Bradshaw has abvays worked in the Primary and Relief Society, has been president of both organizations; also has been a teacher in Relief Society, Primary and Sunday School, at different times and places. She has always worked hard for the benefit of her children, an'd others when it was possible, but she is humble in spirit and hopes to live yet to do much good in the world. EMMA CAROLINE LUKE CLEGG. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Emma Caroline Luke Clegg, daughter of Henry and Harriet Luke, was born at Heber City, LTah. August 29, 1861. Her parents were among the early settlers of Provo Valley. The death of the father, which occurred while the children were all small, compelled them to work for a living in _ the fields and in the home. They were given the best education oft'ered by the schools at that time. 
 At the age of twenty-one years, she was married to Fred! Clegg, of Heber city. To them were born seventeen children, eleven of whom are still living. Mrs. Clegg and husband, through perseverance and overcoming difficulties, have built for their family a comfortable home and given them a good education. Consit'ering the rearing of such a large family, Mrs. Clegg, now fifty-six years old, is a comparatively young woman. Her life has been spent in doing good to others, and she is now always ready to give her assistance to those in need. The accompanying picture was taken when her last baby was five months old, and it is now nine years of age. MARGARET ELIZABETH JOHN REESE. MOTHER OF NINETEEN CHILDREN. Mrs. Margaret Elizabeth John Reese was born in Wellsville, Cache county, Utah, February 4, 1857. She was the daughter of Charles John and Elizabeth Williams John, who were among the early settlers of Wellsville. When Sister Reese was about two years old her parents moved to West Portage, Box Elder county, Utah, in the Malad Valley, where she lived until married to Brother Noah Reese. She was married at the age of sixteen. She later received her endowments in the Logan temple, in 1886. She had donated to the building, and played on the walls, when the men were working on the temple. Sister Reese often speaks of the great grasshopper famine, and tells her children and grandchildren of the gleaning of the v/heat after the grasshoppers had eaten most of the grain. They love to hear her tell of these things. She remembers when the Pocatello Indians ranged in the hills round about the village. When they used to come dpwn out of the canyons, when about a mile away from the houses they would give their war-whoops, then all the people would run and gather at her father's home, as that was nearer to the center of the town, for refuge. Although the Indians seemed very savage they never killed any one in the settlement. Sister Reese used to hold th? Indian babies and would often run away from her parents as they had told her never to go near the Indian camps, but one time.she was badly frightened as the chief wanted her to eat grouni crickets with them. When she refused they were going to take her, but some way she stole away and ran home. After she was married, she moved with her husband to Samaria, on a farm, where she worked and helped to clear the UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 569 land. She stayed there until 1890, then she and three children moved to a farm at Lava, Idaho, now known as Blaser, but it is still called the Lava ward. They were the ninth family in this place, and these were scattered over a tract of land about twelve miles. At this time there was no ward organization there, and in the year 1890 they were organized as a branch of the Garden Creek ward. They were then organized as a ward in 1891, at which time Brother Noah Reese was called into the bishopric, and he went from house to house and held meetings. Since then, at one time, Sister Reece was president of the Y. L. M. I. A., treasurer in the Relief Society, teacher in the Sunday School and Primary, in that ward. She has been a Sunday School teacher ever since their district was organized as a branch. Since then they have been organized into two wards and one branch, and Sister Reese belongs to Lava ward. She is a teacher in Sunday School and Primary. She is also president of the Y. L. M. I. A. and first counselor in the Relief Society. She has been a faithful and diligent worker in every organization in the ward. She loves the Church work. She is always ready at any time to help the sick and needy. She is the mother of nineteen children; twelve of them are living now. She has seven children married, and has had twenty-six grandchildren, eighteen of whom are living. She is enjoying fairly good health and takes great pleasure in helping others. She has had many trials and bitter experiences, but has never once lost faith in the principles of the gospel, since she was seventeen years of age. when she prayed for a testimony, and her prayer was answered. An opportune time for making winter mince meat while green tomatoes are so cheap. GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT. Recipe by Mrs. Lyda J. Barrow, Gridley Relief Society. Chop 8 quarts of green tomatoes. Measure after they are chopped and trimmed. Draw off juice and add as much water as there was juice. Then add: 6 pounds of sugar 2 pounds of chopped raisins 1 pound of currants 3 pound of citron peel Cook slowly until tender, then add two tablespoons cinnamon, cloves, allspice and salt, also one cup of good vinegar. Boil until thick. Stir often to keep from burning, then add 6 large sour apples, chopped. Add beef suet to suit taste. When apples are done, put in jars and seal. This mince will keep a long time.