General Relief Society Conference. . . .Amy Brown Lyman
======================================================================

Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 General Conference of Relief Society. Amy Broivn Lyman, General Secretary. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held on Thursday, October 2, 1919. The conference consisted of a one-day session of three meetings, held at 9 a. m-, 1 p. m., and 8 p. m. Due to the delicate physical condition of our beloved General President, Emmeline B. Wells, and to the fact that the last General conference was held so late as June, 1919, it was decided by the General Board to limit the October conference to a one-day session for stake officers only. President Emmeline B. Wells, who had been confined to her bed for over a month, was sufficiently recovered to preside over the sessions of the conference. She was ably assisted by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, who conducted the meetings and led in the various discussions. The morning and afternoon sessions were devoted to addresses on the various phases of Relief Society work, and to instructions and discussions on the business of the organization. The evening session was devoted to two addresses, followed by a testimony meeting. There were three hundred and thirty general and stake officers in attendanceAmong these were 22 General Board niembers, and the following stake officers: 48 presidents, 1 mission president, 51 counselors, 22 secretaries, 9 treasurers, 4 choristers, 2 mission representatives, and 193 board members. The mission representatives were from the California and the Eastern States missions. Of the 79 stakes in the Church, 64 sent representatives, while 15 were not represented. All of the four new stakes, recently organized, were represented. During the noon recess of one hour, a cafeteria luncheon was served to those in attendance. On Monday, October 6, 1919, a genealogical convention was held under the supervision of the General Board. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister of the Relief Society, was in charge of the music of the conference, and Miss Edna Coray presided at the piano. Following is the program as carried out: Morning Sessions Singing, "Our Mountain Home so Dear." Prayer, Mrs. Mary M. Lyman, President Deseret Stake. Singing, "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded." Opening remarks. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. Hints to Women on Remodeling Clothing, and Clothing for School Girls, Mrs. Lucille Y. McAllister. Proper Housing, and Home Training, Mrs. Amy L. Merrill. Teacher Training, Mr. Wilford McKendrick. Discussion. Singing, Doxology. Prayer, Dr. Roumania B. Penrose. Afternoon Session. Singing, "Come Let Us Anew." Prayer, Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, President, Boise Stake. Singing, Contralto solo, selected, Mrs. Eva Aird. Remarks, President, Emmeline B. Wells. Remarks, Counselor Julina L. Smith. Hints on Influenza, Dr. George W. Middleton. Responsibility of Parents, Judge Hugo B. Anderson of the Juvenile Court. The Social Advisory Committee, Elder Stephen L. Richards. Report of the National Conference of Social Work, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. Discussion. Singing, "The Time is Far Spent." Prayer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Evening Session. Anthem, "Sanctus," Dudley Buck. Prayer, President Andrew G. Kimball, St. Joseph stake. Ave Maria, from "Cavalleria Rusticana," Mascagni, R. S. Choir. Address, Leadership. Mrs. Elise B. Alder, President, Ensign stake. Solo, "The Seer," Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Address, Counselor, Clarissa S. Williams. Trio, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Mrs. Sarah Wood, Mrs. Agnes O. Thomas. Testimony. Selection, 'The Land of Little Faces," Margaret C. Patrick and Relief Society Choir. Prayer. GENEALOGICAL CONVENTION. Singing-, "The Morning Breaks." Prayer, Miss Sarah M. McLelland. How to begin genealogy work, Mrs. Donnette S. Kesler. Bringing old records up to date, Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Cooperation with representatives of Genealogical Society of Utah, Nephi Anderson. Remarks, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Singing, "An Thomas Benediction, Angel Yates. From on High." AFTERNOON SESSION— 2 p. m. Singing, All Ye Saints Throughout the Earth." "Come,Eddington. Prayer, Sarah The Stake Genealogical Class Leader, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. The Value and Importance of Inspiration in Genealogy and Temple Work, Recorder A. A. Ramseyer. Discussion. Singing, "Great Benediction, MissGod, Attend Sarah While Zion Sings." Eddington. MORNING SESSION. The opening meeting of the conference was called to order by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams who gave a brief address of welcome. She stated that she was pleased to extend the love and greetings of the General Board, and to express their appreciation of the great Relief Society cause, and of the splendid work done by the various stake and ward officers. She expressed special appreciation for the presence of President Emmeline B. Wells, whose great faith, she said, is a lesson to everybody. Through this great faith and courage President Wells is enabled to be in attendance at the conference despite her great age, and her recent severe illness. Mrs. Williams thanked the stake officers for the splendid work accomplished in the Relief Society, during the last year, and said that in spite of the many handicaps, including the influenza epidemic, a marvelous work has been done. The reports from the General Board members who have visited stake conferences have been better than ever before. Thev have shown a better attendance of stake and ward officers at stake conferences, better preparation, a keener interest in the work, and a better general understandingof the aims and objects of the organization. In the past there have been officers who have remained away from these yearly conventions for comparatively unjustifiable reasons; but during the last visiting season, stake and ward officers have been anxious to be in attendance, and many of them have made great sacrifices to be present. Attention was called to the fact that the official stake conference comes but once a year, and the hope was expressed that the time would come when the attendance of officers, at this time, would be one hundred per cent. She emphasized the importance of regular sta"ke and local officers' meetings, where detail work and plans should be considered; also advised the holding of prayer meetings in connection with the stake and ward meetings. Mrs. Williams urged stake presidents and offi.cers to build up and maintain as high a standard of efficiency as is possible. One of the best factors in raising standards is to get efficient help and it was suggested that stake and ward presidents solicit the support of the priesthood in siecuring the assistance of the most capable women in the various communities, to help carry on the work. She said that there are hundreds of bright active young women in the Church who should be invited into the Relief Society work, and should be encouraged to take an active part. These young women are in the main, well-trained and well-educated, and are well fitted for the many phases of Relief Society work, and particularly for class teaching, which is at the present time not up to the standard desired for it. It would be hard to carry on the Relief Society work with out the aid of the older members, with their strong spirituality, their fervid testimonies, and their great wisdom and experience. But many of the activities require the help of our younger women, with their active minds, educational training, and fresh enthusiasm. Mrs. Williams extended special greetings to the young women who have just recently been called as stake presidents, and hoped that with their just ambitions and laudable desires they would be able to make their organizations among the best. Friendly rivalry is helpful, and it is the privilege of each stake president to make an effort to have her organization the best in the Church. The speaker stated that it is the hope of the General Board that the doing away with the general sessions of the conference this year has not caused too much disappointment, and explained that because of the delicate health of the President, and because of the recent large conference held in June, it was decided to limit this conference to meetings for stake officers. It is the desire of the General Board at all times, that instructions to the wards shall reach ward officers through the stake officers, and she hoped that stake officers come so well equipped to this conference that no vital information shall be lost to the wards through this arrangement. In conection with our stake conferences the speaker explained that stake officers' meetings have been arranged for the purpose of affording an opportunity for the stake officers and the General Board members to discuss in detail all matters pertaining to the stake and ward; and stake officers should so instruct ward officers and members that the latter will take no offense. This arrangement throughout, it is believed, is helpful in carrying on the work, and aids in promotion of all of those things which go to make up a good working organization. Mrs. Lucille Young McAllister gave a talk on Remodeling Clothing and Clothing for the School Girl, including, also, some general observations on dress fads. She said that we must look at clothing from two points of view; first, as a covering and protection to the body, which is the primary object of clothing, and second, as adornment. In order to be heakhful and well the body should be kept warm and properly protected. No style should, therefore, interfere with the primary object of clothing. Too much clothing is not good for the body, but it is necessary that a sufficient amount should be worn to insure comfort and good health. Some of the young girls today are in the habit of exposing the upper part of their bodies to an extent which is very deterimental to their health. The importance of wearing the proper kind of shoes was emphasized. It is impossible for women to be at their best, or to do the best work, if their shoes are uncomfortable. Shoes should be large enough, and should fit the feet well. French heels are an abomination for women and girls. They are not only hard on the feet themselves, but give an unnatural and false position to the body. A moderately high heel is not always injurious if worn occasionally, but low, square heels with rubber added are especially good for the aged and indeed for all women. Middle aged and old people, whose feet have grown tender, will obviate a great deal of nervousness and irritability if they will see to it that their feet are comfortable. Clothing as an adornment is worthy of serious thought, as dress is understood to be, in a measure, the outward expression of the inward self. Whether this is true or not, clothing certainly has an influence and the bearing, both upon the wearer and upon his associates, that can hardly be accounted for. It is said that it is impossible for people to do their best, or to feel their best if RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. their clothing is uncomfortable, or if there is a consciousness that it is unbecoming. The speaker declared that there is really no excuse for either uncomfortable or unbecoming clothing; and if women will make a reasonable study of dress, there would be great improvement along this line. The mother should pay attention to her own clothing as well as to that of her daughter. Carelessness on the part of the mother as to her own appearance is a secret annoyance to the children, and is often the cause of disrespect on the part of the children. The mother should not make undue sacrifices of her own clothing and appearance. She has a right to her share of the family income and should not go shabby in order that her daughter may wear silk hose. Undue unselfishness on the part of the mother is a real injury to the daughter, and prevents her proper development, while it induces selfishness and vanity in the girl. The mother should give the daughter the proper view of their relationship. Due to the great advance in the price of material, as well as in the price of ready made clothing, the women of today are paying a great deal of attention to the remodeling of clothing. The present styles of jumper effects, sleeveless jackets, and the use of draperies, give great opportunity for combination of materials, which is always an advantage in remodeling. The turning and dyeing of materials gives them new life and increases the possibility ofpleasing variations. The middle aged and old should wear soft colors, and should substitute cream for white in the wardrobe. Bright colors should be left for the young. The speaker emphasized the fact that one should not be guided too much by any prevailing style — should be governed only by what is becoming to the individual, so far as the main outlines are concerned, modifying general personal styles by changes in skirt and sleeve — such as extra fulness of skirt and fulness of sleeve or vice versa. The school girl should be put on an allowance. Women as a rule are not expert in business, because they have had so little experience in the handling of money. The mother should realize that to a high school girl nothing is more important than her clothing and she should be willing to give this matter due consideration, and enter into the plans for the girl's wardrobe with interest. The school girl, at the beginning of the year, should make an inventory of her clothing, and if she knows definitely v/hat her allowance is to be, she will be able to plan her clothing for the year. She should buy her own clothing and handle her own money; this, of course, under supervision. The girl whose mother buys all her clothing, has no idea of the value of clothes. School girls should learn how to sew and to make hats; and whenever domestic side courses are offered in schools, the mother should see that her daughter registers for side work. When these courses are not offered in a high school, the women should make a demand for them. At the L. D. S. High School, recently, in the millinery class, a girl copied a $20 hat for $4.85. The keynote for the school girl as well as the woman is— dress according to the work you are to do. School girls should dress as business women. They should plan for utility and appropriateness. Their shoes should be comfortable and their dresses dark and plain. Mrs. Amy Lyman Merrill spoke on the subjects of Proper Housing and Home Training. She said that in early history houses were used merely as a shelter from enemies and a protection from weather elements, but in our present civilization they are an expression of beauty and individual appreciation. The home of today is an expression of the family and family life, and has to do with the following four departments of art: landscape gardening, architecture, color harmonies and interior home decoration. In connection with every home and every department of the home, four points should be considered: neatness, order, simplicity, and naturalness, and every woman should think of her home in these terms. Observation and application of these points, coupled with hard work and good sense, in addition to the proper adjustment of family life, with home co-operation and reciprocation will produce the right home spirit or atmosphere, which is really the most important element in normal family life. "A house is built of bricks and stone, Of sills, of parts, of piers; But a home is built of loving deeds That stand a thousand years." The speaker stated that careful consideration should be given to the exterior of the home, the architecture, the color scheme, and landscape gardening, and made a plea for simplicity throughout. Lawns should be uninterrupted in sweep and flowers and shrubs should be on the outside edges and at the base of the house. The architecture should be simple with uniform angles, and the paint should be of soft, pleasing colors. Gaudy colors should always be avoided. The free use of paint was recommended and the statement was made that wood lasts three times longer if painted, so, as a mere matter of economy, it pays to paint woodwork often. In the interior of the house the keynote should be utiHty. In the utihty house there is no lonely parlor shut off for state occasions, but a living room to be lived in. Every part of the house is connected with every other part. In a four room house the doors should all be placed in the center, and there should be a hall to connect the bath room. There should be in every house a good supply of closets, with numerous drawers and shelves. In considering home training we should realize that the home is a wonderful mechanism. It needs, first, care; second, to be understood by every inmate; third, oil or good atmosphere; fourth, it needs every one to do his part. Emphasis should he placed on the importance of the present moment, or today. We look forward and we look backward; we imgaine what we will do in the future and think over what we have done in the past. As a result we have very little thought for what is immediately before us and we fail to live fully today. Today is as important as any day in eternity. Family life should be organized. The Church is wonderfully organized, the auxiliary groups are well organized, and the Latter-day Saints homes should be just as well organized. Good home organization is not only a protection to the home itself, but to the whole community. Each member of the family should have his definite place and his definite duties. Boys should learn to serve in their turn, so that in case of the illness of the mother or sisters the boys can turn their hands to house work and prevent confusion. The meal time should be a pleasure time and not a chastening period. Properly selected and well cooked food and a congenial and cheerful family group, make for happiness and family solidarity. If parents would be successful in trainnig children, and in retaining their love and respect, they should be men and women of honor and truth, and should endeavor, at all times, to set a good example. They should control their appetites and their tempers, and never indulge in deceit of any form. They should show a respect and consideration for the rights of others and should never be too busy to be courteous — even to their own small children. The next speaker was Prof. Wilford McKendrick. He said, in part: "The teacher training movement recently set on foot in the Church had its inspiration in the wise utterance of our late President Joseph F. Smith, when he stated that we should be a Church of teachers. To my mind it is one of the most important institutions that has come to our auxiliary organizations, exceeded in importance only by the auxiliaries themselves. We are not slow in declaring to each other and to the world that we have the truth; but having the truth is one thing, and having the power and insight to fasten it firmly in the souls of our fellows, is quite another thing." Here the speaker reminded his audience that Christ, the Teacher of teachers, was thirty years preparing himself to teach three years, while we seem to have reversed the order and are satisfied to spend three years in preparation for thirty years' teaching service. Teaching a human soul is not only a wonderful opportunity, but at once is also a fearful responsibility. The teacher who realizes this responsibility sees more than the individual whom he is to teach. He perceives each student, not as an individual, not as a Tomor an Elsie, but as two sets of inner relations bound together with a power divine and called a human soul. The soul is God given, its limits he has fixed, but the content we build. It is with the content that we as teachers should be earnestly concerned. One set of these inner relations has to do with the individual's physical environment, and these are continually setting up and establishing correspondence with an environment. The other set of inner relations should be just as busy in establishing correspondences with the spiritual environment. To direct and stimulate the activities of these internal relations so that the soul may "fulfil the measure of its creation," is the work of the teacher. To this end the teacher must know each lesson truth or fact of knowledge clearly, relatively and adequately. By clear knowing I mean that the truth or fact has been identified. That it is distinctive from all other facts, that it is isolated. By knowing relatively I mean that the fact or truth must also be known in its relation to other facts, and by knowing adequatelv, T mean that the fact or truth must be known in its elements. Here the speaker illustrated these dififerent forms of knowing. "Much depends upon the way a lesson is assigned, if thorough preparation on the part of the pupils is to be obtained. The purpose of the assignment is to drive the student to the text, to analyze it and to discover truth for himself." The speaker submitted the following assignment of the first lesson in November, as reflecting his idea: , SUGGESTIVE ASSIGNMENT. Lesson 1 (First week in November) Subject:. A Day of Redemption for the Lamanites. Text: Nephi 15:13-16: Doc. and Cov. Sec. 87:5; 2 Nephi 30:3-6. Central Truth: Through God's redeeming love the Indian will yet develop capacity for all his promised blessings. 1. We speak of redemption — When is a man said to be redeemed? How does the term apply with reference to property? When did the redemption of Utah really commence? 2. Our lesson speaks about the Lord bringing about his righteous purposes through process of natural principles. What is a natural law? 3. If the remnant of Lehi's people were once a white and delightsome people, as the Book of Mormon makes plain they were, and through transgression of the law, both as to spiritual and natural, they descended to their present condition, is it not reasonable to assume that they will revert to type again by yielding obedience to the processes of natural laws? What are your conclusions? 4. On natural principles God made John the Baptist the type of man he needed for the forerunner of his Son Jesus Christ. Developed in the wilderness away from the insidious influences of the theology of his day, far removed from the contaminating customs mility, andcouragepractices and a of misguided' peoples, responsibility he developed for his duty, that madea huhis words convincing to the humble and disconcerting to those who had wandered away from God. This is all very well, but what has it to do with the redemption of the Lamanites. 5. Name at least three agencies that are now at work on these peoples which are contributing to their redemption. 6. Make a brief summary of the prophecies and promises in relation to the Lamanites, found in the passages in your lesson quoted from the Book of Mormon. In discussing the recitation. Elder McKendrick explained the different types of questions, and the assumptions upon which each were based, emphasizing the type used by Jesus when he wanted to break up hazy, confusing, and conflicting knowledge in the minds of his hearers, and set in its place clear, distinct and positive knowledge. Proceedine. the speaker said: "A careful analysis of the pedagogy of the Master brings us face to face with the fact that through all his teaching his questions were of such a nature as to compel active states of the soul. His is the ideal. To aspire to become like unto him is the least that any teacher can do. Like him in his wondrous love, in his sympathy, intensely human yet truly divine. His is what I call the human touch. Many teachers are attemotingr to get by without it, but the process is pathetic, to say the least. Let it be remembered, fellow teachers, that our knowledge is useless unless it is guided, dominated and vitalized by love. Where there is no love there will be no teaching; no matter what else you may possess, you cannot touch the life of a human soul until your knowledge has been 'shot through' with a. burning love for him and for his little ones. And finally, it is our business as the teachers of souls, to enshrine in our hearts the ideals of that Teacher who one day girded himself with a towel and said, 'Lo I am in the midst of you as one that serveth,' and 'If any shall be chief among you, let him become the servant of all." President Emmeline B. Wells, in opening the afternoon meeting, expressed her great love for all workers in the Relief Society cause, and for all the pure in heart the world over. She felt overwhelmed with joy in being able to attend the meetings; and said that in view of the fact that this might be the last conference she would attend, she desired to leave a particular message to her co-workers. This message was that we should bear testimony frequentlv. A testimony is one of the most precious gifts of God, and she declared that the best way to keep a testimonv is to bear testimony. Mrs. Wells urged her hearers to be faithful, to keep literally the commandments of God, and to be willing at all times to acknowledge and praise him. Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke on the duties of the district teachers and the work of the burial clothes committee. She spoke of the importance of having the teachers' work carried on with dignity as well as with love and kindenss. Teachers should never be tale-bearers, and should never indulge in gossip. She suggested a change in the personnel of teachers occasionally. Mrs. Smith reported the work of the burial clothes committee, and emphasized the importance of laying away the dead properly. In this connection she spoke of the prevailing carelessness in the wearing of sacred clothing by our sisters, and urged that Relief Society women dress according to their own knowledge and understanding. Dr. George W. Middleton stated that the influenza epidemic of last year was the greatest scourge that ever struck the United States. He said there were between four and five hundred thousand cases and that there were more deaths than there were incident to the civil war. From descriptions he has read, Dr. Middleton isinclined to think that the black death of olden times was very similar to the influenza of today. It is evident that the disease is contagious, and that it spread exactly according to methods of travel — on the ocean it traveled exactly with the speed of the steamers, on land with the speed of the express train, and on the desert with the speed of the caravan. Being contagious, quarantine is important, and quarantine is very eflfectual if we get it with the first cases. Good quarantine regulations might have saved many lives last year. Dr. Middleton reviewed the progress in medicine since science has joined hands with medicine in studying the nature and causes of disease, and in discovering specifics for the treatment of disease. Yellow fever, malaria, diphtheria and smallpox have lost their terrors; and when people live up to the present knowledge regarding typhoid and tuberculosis, these two terrible diseases will be greatly diminished. Through the study of science and bacteriology, and application of knowledge, the Japanese have been able to reduce disease in their army to a minimum. Dr. Middleton suggested that it might be a good plan to appoint stake and ward health committees to assist the communities in case of a return epidemic. As a means of guarding against influenza, it was recommended that people make every effort to keep themselves physically fit, 'by having an abundance of fresh air, by eating proper food, and by avoiding fatigue. Upon being asked what to do first, in case of influenza, the doctor suggested putting the patient to bed, giving him plenty of rest and quiet, and an abundance of fresh air. As long as there is even slight indication of temperature the patient should remain in bed. Judge Hugo B. Anderson, of the Juvenile Court, spoke on the responsibility of parents. He said he was delighted to appear before an audience of Relief Society women for two reasons: first because the mother's influence is the greatest element in the world for social betterment; and second, because Relief Society workers were the pioneers in the Church, in social science work. He told the story of the physical contest between Hercules and Antius, and how Hercules cliscovered that the secret of Antius' strength was his contact with mother earth, and that the only way to overcome him was by keeping him in the air. Judge Anderson compared the power of mother earth over her children with the power of all mothers over their children, and stated that no other influence in the life of a young man will give him the same moral strength as that which comes from contact with a good mother. The boy is also like Antius, in that when he is removed from his mother his strength is diminished. A double responsibility rests upon parents; first, a family responsibility; and second, a social responsibility. No family can successfully live by itself and ignore social conditions. We are a part of community life, and if we would improve the conditions of our own families we must improve the conditions of society. The Juvenile Court comes in contact with failures, and it finds that these failures are not merely individual cases, but symptoms of a social disorder throughout the communitv. The recent court records prove beyond a doubt that there are dangerous and threatening disorders in our societv todav. Disastrous failure is being made in the responsibility of parents to boys and girls. From August 31, 1918, to August 1, 1919, 179 girls were sent to a local detention home, and 77 to the State Industrial School, many of the girls suffering from social disease. These symptoms of social disorder must not be side-stepped, they must be faced and the situation taken care of. As an example of conditions, Judge Anderson said that only last Saturday night, six girls under sixteen years were found late at night by juvenile court officers, walking the streets without escorts. The girls were all taken home, and in every case the parents were in bed and asleep, and in most cases the parents were annoyed that the officers had disturbed their sleep in bringing their girls home. In the past month three cases of immorality have occurred in the homes of the three girls who are involved, while the girls were left up late unchaperoned, and the parents were upstairs asleep. As a means of correcting existing social conditions. Judge Anderson suggested rigid enforcement of the curfew law and proper chaperonage of young people. He said that if all of the parents and all of those interested in social welfare work, would co-operate and see that no juveniles under eighteen years of age are out after nine o'clock, unless accompanied by parents or guardians, practically all of the juvenile dehnquency would be done away with. Nobody can enforce the curfew law excepting parents, and parents of today are shirking their responsibility in this matter. It may be a fact that people were successful in early days in preventing delinquency, in children, without taking stringent measures, but conditions prove that today strict disciplinary measures are necessary. In speaking of the social responsibility of parents the speaker brought out the fact that from sixty to seventy per cent of the juvenile delinquents come from broken homes. Judge Anderson feels that there is great need for a home where orphans and half orphans might be placed temporarily, until definite plans can be made for them. As there is no such home in Utah, children who have made only slight mistakes must be placed with those who are really delinquent. Christ told us that there is great joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. Efforts should therefore be made to reclaim those who have made mistakes. In so doing pitfalls will be located and intelligent effort can be made to prevent others from going astray. In the short period since the Latter-day Saints settled in Utah, they have built up splendid homes, and have laid the foundation for public intsitutions. They have had broad vision in the past, and have been progressive in all things. Judge Anderson made a plea for greater interest in social betterment. He recommended that we broaden our vision and cultivate a social conscience in order that we may safeguard the failures of our own people. Mrs, Amy Brown Lyman gave a report of the meeting of the National Conference of Social Work, held in Atlantic City, from June 1 to 8. She stated that the national conference was organized in 1874, and for forty-five years has been devoted to human welfare work. At the first meeting there were in attendance only three secretaries of state (boards of charity, and at the 1919 conference there was a registration of five thousand members, with a paid-up membership of 2,800, The delegates were social workers of every description. There were among them negroes, policewomen, Y. W. C. A. workers, Red Cross workers, and Jewish Relief workers, the latter in large numbers. There were thirteen delegates from Utah, eight of whom were from the L. D. S. Church. The conference was divided into ten divisions, seven permanent and three temporary. The permanent divisions were as follows: children, delinquents and correction, health, public agencies and institutions; the family, industrial and economic problems. The temporary divisions were: the local community, organization ofsocial forces, and the uniting of native and foreign born. In the children's division all questions concerning the welfare of children were discussed, including health, education, industrial adjustment, recreation, and cultural life. Due to the great loss of life caused by battle deaths, disease, and lowered birth rate, great stress was placed on the physical problems of children. Dr. Sands, from Belgium, stated that during the war special efifort was made in Belgium, to safeguard children and expectant mothers. One meal a day was provided for them, and baby clinics which sprung up everywhere endeavored to give medical care and advice. In the division on delinquents and correction, juvenile and adult delinquency were considered and all of the most modern methods of handling these cases were brought forward by workers of experience. Physical fitness was the chief consideration in the health division. The point was brought out that the best means of combating disease today is to build up in individuals a strong physical resistance. In order to do this, it is necessary for people to be properly fed, clothed and housed. The relation between povertv and diseases was considered, and it was felt that the time has come to break up this vicious circle, by improving industrial, coonon^ic. and health conditions. The national health program was discussed and also the modern health crusade. The superintendents and workers of public agencies and institutions talked over everything connected with institutional work, and in addition vistied public institutions in Philadelphia, and other nearby cities. Work with the needy and dependent families was the program in the family division where there were hundreds of trained and experienced charity workers who gave excellent reports and reviews of their work, and exchanged ideas on the problems connected with family work. In the meetings on industrial and economic problems, government experts, heads of large industries and social workers, made an effort to reach conclusions which would form a basis for improvement in the industrial and social world. The mental hygiene section brought forth all the new discoveries that have been made during the war in the field of applied psychology, and listened to reports of various experts employed by the government to make mental tests, of soldiers and sailors, and to preserve thesie tests for science. The speakers at the Conference were men and women known nationally and internationally as authorities in their various lines. The president of the Conference was Miss Julia Lathrop, Director of the Federal Children's Bureau, who possessed both ability and dignity, and who conducted the business with wisdom and dispatch. The members of the Utah party were among the most earnest delegates in attendance and spent levery moment outside the sessions discussing the various phases of the work with all the intricate problems thereof. They were all greatly impressed with the earnestness of this great body of social workers who are devoting their time and efforts to be of intelligent service to humanity and it was concluded that these trained and expert people are certainly well informed and capable and are getting splendid results. It was seen that the social convention is to social workers what the educational conventions are to teachers. In comparing the welfare work of the Church auxiliaries with that of the various groups represented at the convention, the Latter-day Saint representatives were unanimous in their opinion that the preventive work of the L. D. S. Church is better and more comprehensive than any such work described at the convention; but it was observed, additional effort might be put forth with profit by our groups in corrective work. The delegates felt to pledge themselves to a program of education and training for Church service, and to cultivate a greater spirit of forbearance to those who are unfortunate.