[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Then followed Tom Sawyer, and Treasure Island.; Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Western States Mission The Relief Society of the Pueblo branch has enrolled twenty-six members. A picture of this branch is printed herewith. The women are faithful, active workers and much good is accomplished by their labors. A committee for visiting the sick has been appointed with first counselor, Alice Manners, in charge. Much effective work has been accomplished by this committee. Second counselor, Georgia Hoops, is director of the district teaching. On Oct. 20, 1922, a box social was given by the association. Thirty-seven boxes were sold, clearing $18.50 for the organization. A very successful bazaar was held Nov. 29, 1922. The art booth, apron booth, refreshment stand, fish pond and country store were artistically decorated in harmonizing colors. Many nonmembers, who had never visited the Relief Society before, were in attendance. The proceeds from the bazaar amounted to $100.05. The Society donated $50 for the building of an addition to the chapel. San Juan Stake One of the loved and admired characters of Blanding, San Juan stake, is Marian Frengler Bronson. The following sketch of her life has been sent the Relief Society Magazine: 
 "Marian Frengler Bronson was born in Aarhus, Denmark, on the seventh of April, 1847. Her father was a musician, and she and her children have all been gifted with great musical ability. At twenty-three she was married to Andrew Sorenson, whose health failed him, making him an invalid. Her husband died about four years after their marriage, leaving her to care for their remaining child, Josephine. Besides her grief, she had also to suffer the biter displeasure and opposition of his people and hers, for before his death she had joined the Church. These relatives succeeded in taking her little girl away from her, and she was forced to sell her watch and other personal belongings to pay for an attorney to establish her right as guardian. "With her child in her own care again, she made preparations to gather with the Saints. At that time she knew nothing of the work for the dead, or the necessity of gathering genealogy, but she felt impressed before leaving Denmark to gather what genealogy she could, and succeeded in getting such incomplete items as the parish priest could supply. She came to Utah with hei little girl in 1876. In 1877 she was married to Wilmer Wharton Bronson. She later cared for her seven children while her husband filled a mission in Great Britain. "In 1888 she moved with her husband to Monticello, a wild, frontier settlement. She made her home in San Juan county, and for twenty years she was a "minute woman," going wherever the voice of suffering called her. Her obstetric art will be remembered with gratitude after she has gone. For seventeen years she has been a widen and until 1919 she took an active Pag in the Relief Society and other organizations. "In 1919 she was run down in the darkness of night by an automobile and since that time has suffered much pain and discomfort, and is still confined quite closely to the house. But in all these afflictions she is patient and cheerful. 'Her life story is that of a real Saint. The many people who have been comforted in mind and body by the pleasant face and gentle skill of "Grandma" Bronson, do' not hesitate to accord her the title of Saimt, and the history of her sacrifices for the gospel's sake is sure to inspire faith in all who hear it." California Mission. The officers of the California mission have 'written the following inspirational letter to Relief Society headquarters: "Tn reviewing the work of the past year our hearts are filled with gratitude for the privilege we have had of being permitted to work in the California Relief Society mission. We know our NOTES FROM THE FIELD 193 heavenly Father has abundantly blessed us in giving us such wonderful women all through the mission; the officers and members are all energetic, self-sacrificing, and earnest workers. "During the past year eight organizations have been effected and are all working and progressing in a very satisfactory manner. All the different conferences have been visited and meetings held with each organization. "In the early part of November, President Margaret Miller and Charlotte Stahr left with President Jos. W. McMurrin and party for Arizona and San Francisco. Arriving in Arizona all organizations were visited throughout the conference. Meetings with officers and members were held. The Relief Society women in this part of the mission are obedient, energetic and. Willing to make any sacrifices for the advancement of the organization. The members of the Church in some parts of Arizona are handicapped in many ways. Few meeting houses have been built and the members have to travel many miles to attend their meetings. Although they are passing through the hardships of the regular pioneer life it was found that the Relief Soctety women are donating liberally to the poor, building meetinghouses, providing for the comforts of the missionaries, and in every way working for a better and bigger Relief Society. "The Fresno conference, held at Bakersfield and Gridley, was very satisfactory. The San Francisco conference was the next one visited. It was gratifying to note the willing spirit for work in these conferences. Many branches, with cooperation of the other Church organizations, are building meetinghouses, buying lots for meetinghouses, caring for the mission homes, and at all times providing for the sick and needy. In visiting these conferences it was very pleasing to see the missionaries taking part and helping in the Relief Society work. We learned that many branches have placed the Relief Society Magazine in their public libraries, "The work in the Los Angeles conference is progressing. During the past year many new organizations have taken place. Social service activities have been an important part in the year's work, "January 15, 1923, the Los Angeles Relief Society gave a 'Get acquainted party.' Over four hundred persons attended, and it was a very enjoyable affair. "The plans outlined for the coming year include social service work to be carried on throughout Los Angeles, the nurse and lecture course consisting of lectures from the best specialists and nurses in the city, and the establishment of a baby clinic." 
 Liberty Stake e A testimonial party was held by the Salt Lake City second ward on Tuesday, January 30, 1923, in honor of Mary A. Hyde White, who served as secretary of this ward for sixteen years. She also acted in the same capacity for several years for Liberty stake Relief Society. Mrs. White, because of illness, retired from active labors about a year ago. Eighty-three guests were present at the dinner. Community singing and speeches were the features of the entertainment. The speakers all: commended Sister White for her loyalty and paid beautiful tributes to her for her efficient and devoted service. A beautiful flower bowl was presented to, her by Mrs. Matilda Jensen, president of the ward Relief Society. She spoke of the love and esteem in which Mrs. White was held by her many friends and co-workers. IN MEMORIAM Mexican Mission Mrs. Nicolasa de Bueno, president of the El Paso Branch of the Mexican Relief Society, died at her home December 21, 1922. Mrs. De Bueno was born in 1858, in the City of Chihuahua,*Chih., Mexico. Before her conversion to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, she belonged to the Presbyterian church. She had investigated a great many different churches but never felt that she had found the truth, until a "Mormon" missionary left at her home an "Articles of Faith" card which contained the address of a house where cottage meetings were being held. Her interest was aroused and she searched out the house mentioned, and attended her first "Mormon" meeting. After this she eagerly read the Book of Mormon, and all other Church literature obtainable in the Spanish language. When her minister learned that she was investigating the gospel of the "Mormon" Church, and reading their literature, he tried in every way to discourage her, and even told her she would be utterly condemned for so doing; but she felt that she had found the truth, and 'her faith was undaunted. From this beginning she continued her earnest investigation until, in September, 1919, she became a member of the Church. She finally gained the consent of her husband for her baptism, although hs did not, himself, join the Church. Mrs. De Bueno, from the time of her baptism until her death, was a very faithful member, and performed willingly all duties required of her in the 'Church. When the Mexican Relief Society was organized in El! Paso, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 195 Sister de Bueno was chosen president, which office she held and fulfilled its obligations faithfully until her death. Fremont Stake Henrietta Eckersell, an early pioneer was called by death on Sunday morning, February 4, 1923, at Rexburg, Idaho, at the ripe age of eighty-two. Mrs. Eckersell was born in the Highlands of Scotland, September 7, 1840. Her parents joined the Church in their native land. Her mother died when Henrietta was five years old, and her father, with his young daughter, undertook to emigrate to Utah. They crossed the plains with Captain Willie's handcart company. In crossing the plains they were overtaken with the early winter blasts and her father perished when within a few miles of Salt Lake City, their destination. Upon her arrival in Salt Lake City, President Brigham Young took her to his home where she remained until her marriage to James Eckersell. Mr. And Mrs. Eckersell settled first in Cache valley and later moved to Rexburg, Idaho. Mrs. Eckersell was the mother of five sons and five daughters; three sons and three daughters survive her. She was active in Church affairs and she died staunch in the cause she espoused. Wasatch Stake In the death of Mary Carlile McNaughton, on Jan. 14, 1923, the Heber second ward lost one of its earnest and faithful workers. Mrs. McNaughton was treasurer of the ward Relief Society organization and was always prompt and dependable. Her annual report was compiled and ready for the stake secretary at the time of her death. Because of her devotion as a wife and mother, and because of her faith in the gospel, and her good works in the community, her name will be long remembered with reverence and love.