	THE DAYS IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	These are remarkable days indeed. The times
which “try men’s souls,” and women’s too.
Verily the prophecies are being fulfilled, and one
cannot but see it if his eyes are open to that which
is transpiring around him. In the midst of such
occurrences as are daily taking place, how careful
should each individual be to keep on safe ground;
to fulfill every duty, that the adversary may not
gain any advantage over him; to cultivate
humility and patience, for the Bible says: “Pride
goeth before a fall," and it might be dangerous
even to stumble in a time like this, for there are
many pitfalls which have a fair covering, and the
foolish and unwary may be deceived if they have
not the spirit of discernment, for there are many
false spirits that seek to destroy and lead into bye
and forbidden paths the children of the covenant.
Therefore it behooves all Latter-day Saints to set
a stronger watch upon the children of Zion, and
parents to be doubly diligent and mindful, lest in
some unforeseen way, the enemy who is most
artful and cunning allure them from the straight
and narrow path which the Gospel has marked
out, into the broad highway of sin and folly, where
so many are drifting, carried thither by pride,
vanity, love of gold, and desire for popularity.
But remember all these are only temporary, and
please for a time, and very often are like “Dead
Sea apples,” fair without, but within are full of
bitterness, and how many have found after follow-
ing in pursuit of some bewildering fancy, only
alas too late, that they have lost beyond recall the
Jewel dearer to them than life itself, and what has
been gained? Nothing lasting; only a bitter ex-
perience, a harvest of sorrow after the sowing of
the seeds of selfishness. There are many “who
lay in wait to deceive,” to tempt with false pre-
tences the virtuous and pure from the path of
rectitude, and their arts and subterfuges are more
entangling than the web the spider weaves to catch
the silly flies. We smile at the simple flies that
are so easily caught, but the filmy webs that are
not perceptible to the young and unsophisticated,
often blinded as they are by the bewildering
glamour of fancy, are wrought by the skill and
cunning of those who are adepts at deception,
“whose steps lead down to hell;” in these the
innocent and thoughtless are often entangled, and
price ensnared it is seldom indeed they can en-
tirely free themselves.
	This is, in the strictest sense of the word, an
age of licentiousness; let him who can close his
eyes to the fact, and when the youth of Zion make
pleasure-seeking the aim of life, what can be ex-
pected?  The Lord has gven to His people in
this dispensation certain principles to be observed,
in order that He may have a remnant upon the
earth that will honor Him, a covenant people who
will be pure, and it behooves those who have ac-
cepted the Gospel to be humble, prayerful; and
obedient, that they may be able to stand in the
midst of trials and temptations, and stem the cur-

[Column 2]
rent of wickedness that is flooding the earth, and
so fortify Zion against the encroachments of sin
and crime, that the Saints may not be contamin-
ated by the evils thal are threatening the nations
of the earth with final overthrow and destruction.
	The youth of Zion should choose good company,
shun evil associates as they would a loathsome
disease, that can only kill the body, but the other
might eventually lead to the loss of all that is
worth living for.  The young cannot be too well
instructed in those things which tend to purity of
life and character, nor too closely watched over
and guarded in all their walk and conversation.
The strictest honesty and uprightness should be
observed, remembering the sacred covenants un-
der which they were born, the great mission they
ar. expected to perform, and the high and holy
destiny that awaits those who maintain their in-
tegrity to the Kingdom of God.
	It seems that every variety of wickedness is
sought to be introduced into the midst of this
people, and assuredly are the words of the Pro-
phet coming to pass who said, “Let us look upon
Zion that she may be defiled!” But to those who
observe the signs of the times, and who keep the
commandments given, God will give a portion of
His Holy Spirit, that they may foresee the evil,
and hide themselves from it.


