ONE HOUR?"

	These words of the Savior rose in my mind
last Sunday as I sat in the congregation at
the Tabernacle waiting for the service to
commence. As is usual, there was much low
talking going on, and I was so unfortunate as
to get seated before two men, and could not
avoid hearing their talk. I thought of the
"lash of small cords" by which the Savior
drove out of the temple those who bought and
sold in it, and His severe rebuking words
upon the occasion. In words, these two men
bought and sold and built houses, bought land,
sat in judgment on the market and other
business matters, and evidently forgot where
they were, and that a crowd were within hear-
ing, who had assembled to worship the great
Creator of all good; and to offer up grateful
hearts for all the blessings so bountifully be-
stowed on His creatures of every grade and
clime; who had also come to lay aside the
daily cares of life, its trading, and trafficing,
and merchandising—in fine, the whole routine

[Column 2]

of the "six days' labor;"  and to prepare by
silent communings for the receiving of the
emblems of the atonement spread out before
the eyes of the whole congregation. I query
if those talking men were even aware of those
holy emblems and the Presence which they in-
dicated! or if in partaking of them they would
fail to realize the why and wherefore of the
act!  Their worldly talk must have also dis-
tracted the thoughts of those around them
who were within hearing. I asked myself the
question, Is it possible these men bear the
Holy Priesthood? I would hope not. What
must strangers in the congregation think when
they are liable to hear just such discussions
as fell upon my ear? Can we feel injured if
they go away and say, "How ignorant these
Mormons are?" Most true, such conduct is
the personification of ignorance. In all the
churches of the world silence is ever observed
before commencement of the service, and shall
we, as members of the Church of Christ, fail
in this beautiful and speaking silence when in
His Holy Temple? I have ever felt the in-
cessant talking npon all sorts of topics, often
degraded to gossip, in our Tabernacle is dero-
gatory to Saints. I cannot throw the mantle
of ignorance over it—for the principles of our
holy religion ignore such uncouth rudeness—
and a true Saint has an intuitive compre-
hension of the "fitness of things," and has the
heavenly polish of the Gospel! This I in-
stantly discovered on my first introduction to
a Latter-day Saint, and I have in no instance
seen it fail. We profess to stand on a higher
platform than the world; yet in no other place
of worship did I ever see the latitude and
lightness exhibited as in our Tabernacle;
*	*	and we cannot feel injured when we
hear strangers in our midst condemn the light
nonsensical, gossiping talk that is carried on
every Sabbath Day in our House of God!
There we see the elements of the atonement
spread out before our eyes, covered by pure
white napkins, the cups that are to contain
the emblem of the spilt blood of our Re-
deemer, and shall the minds of the congrega-
tion be so insensate that they cannot concen-
trate their thoughts upon that tremendous
sacrifice which these elements typify? withdraw
their thoughts from the cares and small joys
of earth, and fix them for a time upon the
greatness and sublimity of eternity? or in His
own touching words, "Watch with Him one
hour?"
	Shall good manners mark everywhere in the
world a lady and a gentleman, especially in
the House of God, and shall it be noted that
in the Temple of the L. D. S. only are seen
and heard the thoughtless and the irreverent?
God forbid! Among them should especially be
seen "an outward and visible sign of an in-
ward and spiritual grace!" or by what can we
be judged? 
	"The sweet amenities" of life may certainly
be reciprocated in the House of God, kind
inquiries after the sick and afflicted would be
in character, or short remarks upon some of
the principles of our holy religion, in low soft
voices, but business and wordly cares should
all be left at home, that the mind may be able
to concentrate itself upon the holy rites we as-
semble to commemorate. It will one day be
said: "The Lord is in His Holy Temple, let
all the earth keep silence before Him!"
		HANNAH T. KING.
	August 27th, 1885.


"Nine young women lately received the de-
gree of B. A. at the graduation exercises of the
Royal University of Dublin."
	The American Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its seventeenth annual meeting in
Minneapolis, Minn., on Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, Oct. 13, 14, 15.


