	EPHRAIM, COLORADO.
	The first annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ephraim Ward of the San Luis
Stake of Zion, held in the meeting house, Aug.
11, 1885.
	The house was very handsomely decorated
with evergreens and  flowers from Sister Bodelia
Poulson's flower garden.  There were many
beautiful quilts of all kinds of patterns hang-
ing up—stockings, linseys, laces, embroideries,
tidies, and pillow-slips, and one lovely knitted
bedspread knit by Sister L. M. Thoms, and
other nice things too numerous to mention.
Prest. A. M. Rasmussen presided in the meet-
ing.  Singing by choir.  Prayer by A. H. 
Rasmussen. Singing. Rollcalled, 25 mem-
bers present, 32 enrolled.  Minutes of the pre-
vious meeting read and approved.  Statistical
and financial report was then read.
	Prest. A. M. Rasmussen then gave thanks
for the decorating of the house, and gave very
good instructive advice and counsel, exhorting
us to press forward in future as in times past.
Several of the other sisters bore their testi-
monies and gave very good instructions.
	This Bishop and Counselors, Home Mis-
sionaries N. S. Whitney and Joseph Hunsaker,

[Column 2]
our school teacher, and Brother H. C. Heiselt
made excellent remarks.  Each bore a testi-
mony to the good spirit which was in our
midst.  Gave other good instructions.
	The following named officers were then sus-
tained in their positions.  A. M. Rasmussen,
president; Mary Coray and Mena Cornum,
counselors; Annie Otteson, secretary; Annie
Cornum, assistant secretary; Sorsena Heiselt,
treasurer.  Singing by choir.  Benediction by
the President; after which all, numbering
about 90, went to Sister Bodelia Poulson's 
where the tables were spread with abundance
of good things and dainties of all kinds, and
in the evening went forth in the dance, enjoy
ing ourselves very much, until 12 o'clock, when
all retired. We have a very peaceable com-
munity, living at peace with our enemies more
than is generally the case at present.  Crops
generally look well, and if frost keeps off we
shall be blessed with a bounteous harvest better 
than heretofore.
	Your Sisters in the Gospel,
	A. M. RASMUSSEN, Prest.
