BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 5th we had the first rain of the season,
accompanied by thunder and lightning. It
cleared off fair in the afternoon, when some of
father's wagons were started out, going three
miles as far as his stacks. President Young
had sent his camp three or four miles ahead.
That evening another meeting was held at
Sister Sarah Ann's room, for those of the two
families that were not there the evening before.
	Conference was held, on the 6th, at the
stand, it being a warm pleasant day. 
	Wednesday.—Horace mentions his father's
packing their provisions, and says: "We made
the last packing arrangements to-day."
	On the morning of the 8th the rest of the
wagons moved out. Horace says: "Before
starting, Father Lott blessed Orson and my-
self, and gave us many good promises of health
and safety—that we should return to our
friends again, etc., etc. Started with my
wagon at 11 a. m., myself and Orson, and went
three miles, where the rest of the boys were
camped. Brother and Sister Kimball went
with us. Porter came up on horseback and
informed us that P. P. Pratt had just arrived
from England, and that John Taylor and Or-
son Hyde were soon expected." Father and
mother invited Horace to return in the car-
riage with them, and his father—Bishop


[Column 1]

Whitney—to spend the night, which he ac-
cepted, "leaving the wagon in charge of Orson
and little John." It was arranged for Horace
to drive and care for the horses, and Orson
was to attend to cooking and washing, etc.
	The morning of the 9th witnessed the final
departure of the Pioneers on their way to the
mountains. They were four days traveling
to the "Platte" river, to where I will follow
them, after which the journal closes at Winter
Quarters. Horace wrote:	*	*	* "Fair
weather for traveling. Brother Kimball,
Father, Brigham, and Dr. Richards started this
morning, and went in Brother Kimball's car-
raige. Orson drove my team, and I rode
Brother Brigham's house as far as his camp,
where we arrived about noon, seven miles
from home. Went on three miles further and
camped by the side of a beautiful spring,
having made ten miles to-day. Orson on
guard.
	"Saturday the 10th.—Fair day as usual.
Father did not at first intend going on with
us, but finally concluded to go to the 'Horn'
by Brigham and Heber's request. Travelled
about 15 miles to-day and encamped on the
prairie near a ravine, where we could get
water, about six miles from the 'Elk Horn.'
	"Sunday the 11th.—Fair day. Traveled
on and arrived at the 'Horn' about 2 p. m.,
and crossed the river on a raft drawn on the
opposite side by cattle, with the assistance of
ropes on either side. Brother Bullock, Dr.
Richard's clerk, took down the number of
wagons as they crossed, which amounted to
seventy-two. Went about a mile after cross-
ing down the stream and encamped—the
wagons formed in a line, our horses being
hitched to stakes, and fed on cottonwood
trees, besides their allowance of corn. Brother
Kimball told the brethren this morning he
hoped that they would not go hunting or fish-
ing, for if they did so, they should not be pros-
pered, as this was a day set apart for the
service of the Lord, not for trivial amuse-
ments. Stood on guard to-night—the last
watch."
	Monday the 12th.—Brothers Brigham, Kim-
ball, father, Brother Benson, O. Pratt, G. A.
Smith, Dr. Richards, and a number of others
went back to Winter Quarters. Before
starting, it was agreed by the council that the
remainder of us left behind should travel on
about twelve miles to the 'Platte,' in order to
get across an extensive bottom that intervened,
lest is should rain and make it bad going, ac-
cordingly we travelled on and encamped on
the banks of the Platte, the sun being about
two hours high. Formed our wagons in a
kind of semi-circle, under Stephen Markham's
supervision, who has the cannon in charge.
Brother Markham called the people together
this evening and told them it was the wish of
the Twelve that some should go ahead and
look out for a good track to follow. Father
Case, Jack Redden, and two others volun-
teered.	*	*	*
	Tuesday the 13th.—Father Case, J. Redden,
and the two others appointed went out. Re-
turned and reported this evening that they
had ridden for twenty or thirty miles, and
found a low marshy country in general.
	Friday.—The Presidency having returned,
the camp were called together and organized
—two captains of 100's, viz., Setephen Mark-
ham and A. P. Rockwood were appointed;
also five captains of 50's and fourteen captains
of 10's. There are 153 men and boys on the
list of pioneers, three women, and Lorenzo 
Young's two little boys, and 73 wagons."
	The names of the women were: Harriet
Young, Clarissa D. Young, and Ellen Sanders
Kimball. Horace speaks of Brother J. C.
Little who was among the late arrivals, bring-
ing some valuable presents from Colonel Kane
to President B. Young, father, Porter Rock-

[Column 2]

well, Father John Smith, and Aunt Sabra
Granger, an old nurse in Father Whitney's
family, to whom he sent a box of black tea.
He remembered a number more. Among
them was Don C., my husband's little brother,
to whom he sent a complete and valuable set
of fishing tackle, having seen him often during
his (the Colonel's) sickness at Cutler's Park.
	About 2 p. m. the camp started, and Father
Whitney, J. C. Little, William Kimball,
Joseph B. Nobles, Lyman Whitney, little John
Whitney, and others returned to Winter
Quarters, bringing the last mail from the
Platte. We were glad to learn that they had
gone on, thinking it would hasten their return
home, besides their stopping so near made it
seem much harder than as though they were
traveling on. But we were not slow to im-
prove the opportunities to correspond. Every
messenger was the bearer of letters and tokens
of affection while they remained there, for we
did not know when we should have the chance
again. How far they were going, or how long
would be our separation, no one could tell.
They were going beyond the trackless wastes
of the Great American Desert—to what was
then an almost unknown country, among the
wild beasts and red men of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Nor were they to turn back till they
found some suitable spot where they could
form a colony, and make homes that they
thought would not be coveted nor encroached
upon by their white brethren, who had so
mercilessly driven them from their midst. The
out look was indeed a gloomy one, and needed
all the faith and hope that could be mustered
to sustain us under the circumstances, for
death was sweeping away its victims, and want
and suffering seemed to be staring us in the
face, which required courage, and a mighty
effort to obtain the requisite amount, to be able
to bear up under it. That was among the
saddest chapters in my history; and it made so
vivid an impression that though years have
elapsed, and erased many a scene of later date
they have not been able to obliterate it from my
memory, nor can I ever dwell upon it without
weeping. But the Lord was very merciful, and
it was only through His interposition that so
many were spared to meet again in the flesh.
For all we were brought into tight places, and
many even to the point of death, there came
deliverance when most needed. There was al-
ways a bright star of hope glimmering between
the heavy clouds as they bore down upon us,
till at last it seemed as though the very
heavens were being opened to pour down a
healing balm upon the wounded and disconso-
late—proving that "Earth has no sorrows that
heaven cannot heal."


