MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:—It would give me great pleasure
to send you a few lines from this far-off land that
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT,but as I am not gifted in that direction
you will have to look for that merit from some
other source. I can, however, tell you that the
EXPONENT comes to us as a most welcome visitor
in a strange and foreign land. We prize it not
only as a messenger coming fresh from our moun-
tain home, where so many of our dear ones are,
but as a valued and interesting companion and
friend, and an instructor of great worth. Our
foreign society here is very limited, and more so
at present than usual, as nearly all the Elders are
out among the people on this and the other islands
laboring in their callings as missionaries, while
the President and two or three brethren in charge
of important interests on the plantation, and three
foreign sisters with our little children, are all that
remain on the place, in company with the little
colony of native Saints, most of whom have
gathered here from other parts of the islands.
	Brother Farr has the general oversight and
management of this mission, and of the business
of this plantation.
	Brother Jos. S. Hyde, one of the sons of the late
Apostle Orson Hyde, is teaching an English
school here at the gathering place, and has about
49 pupils; all except one of these are Hawaiian
children from six to eighteen years of age, and
many of them are bright and intelligent, and are
making commendable progress in their study of
the English tongue.	
	Brother S. Allred has charge of the live stock
of the plantation, and furnishes the colony, es-
pecially those employed on the plantation, with
the principal part of their beef.
	Brother A. Westly is the “master mechanic,”
and finds ample employment in keeping the
machinery, fanning implements, etc., etc., in run-
ning order.		
	The Saints here have the finest looking meeting
house that I have seen on this island, outside of
Honolulu. It is certainly a credit to the place
and the builders.
	Their old meeting house is now being used
principally as a school-house, but still serves for
Priesthood meetings, testimony meetings, meet-
ings of the various associations, and for ordinary
purposes. Meetings are held in the large new
house from 10 to 12 every Sabbath morning and
from 8 to 5 p. m. The Saints meet in the old
meeting house for prayer and testimony. These
services are always conducted in the Hawaiian
language, the congregation being almost exclu-
sively natives. I notice that the native people,
both men and women, seem to be very fluent and
ready speakers. I have never yet seen either man
or woman falter for a word or hesitate in giving
expression to their thoughts. They are evidently
great talkers, and are very earnest and emphatic
in their gestures, but I will not now try to describe
the people. Besides the general meetings on the
Sabbath, Sunday School is held from 8 to 9.30
a. m., Mutual Improvement Associations meet

[Column 2]
between 1 and 3 p. m., and in the evening there is
a meeting for the foreign Elders and their families,
generally held in the mission house, occupied by
reading the Scriptures and commenting ther eon.
The reading of the Scriptures is joined in by both
the brethren and sisters, and is in English, but
the singing and prayer is generally done in the
native language, so as to aid the Elders in their
study thereof. There is a very efficient female
Relief Society at Laie, of which Sister Kapo
Keaakolo is the President, and Sister Kaahahui
and Napapale are her counselors. Sister Hana
Naihe is the secretary and Sister Kekuewa Moses-
the treasurer.
	There are three other societies on this island,
at Kahana, about eight miles from here, and at
Honolulu and Waikiki. There are also one or
more societies each on the island of Hawaii,
Maui, Molokai, and  Kauai, all in more or less
efficient working condition.
	At the last April Conference the General Presi-
dency of the Relief Society for the mission were
chosen as follows: E. Farr, President; Kaheaana
Kealakaihonua and Esther Kalua Coles, coun-
selors. The two counselors, who are very faithful
and intelligent native sisters, recently returned
from visiting the Relief Society of north-eastern
Hawaii, a conference over which Brother R. V.
Miller is presiding, consisting of the district of
Kohala Hamakua and Hilo, where they organized
and reorganized several branches, some of which
had become a little dilapidated for the need of
proper care and pruning.
	They contemplated making a trip on the same
business during this month to the island of
Kauai. Their expenses are borne by the Relief
Society, and as these sisters are excellent
speakers, and possessed of more than ordinary
intelligence, and of an excellent spirit they are
very efficient missionaries, as well as faithful
laborers in the society.
	At this place (Laie) there is a very commodious
and convenient frame building, erected by the
organizations of the islands, designed for the
assistance and convenience of such as might need
a temporary dwelling place on coming to the
gathering place, until they could make permanent
arrangements for themselves, and for the general
purposes of the Society at headquarters.
	I am happy to say we are all in the enjoyment
of good health, and peace and the good spirit seems,
to prevail.
	God bless you and the EXPONENT, and all the
faithful and true hearted in Zion. May the dark
clouds of persecution which seem to be gathering
blackness over our fair land, threatening devasta-
tion and sorrow, soon be dispersed by the over-
ruling power of God, in whom we trust, and yet
shower blessings upon the heads of the faithful,
instead of the destruction which they now threaten,
is my earnest prayer.  	
	Very Respectfully, Your Sister in the Gospel,
	J.
Laie, Oahu, S. I., Aug. 12d, 1885.


