IN MEMORY.

	Of our dear friend and sister Mary, daughter of John
F. and Elizabeth Snedaker, died June 21st 1885, of
diptheria. She was bom April 17th 1867, in Mill Creek,
where she lived and died, truly a Latter-day Saint, being
18 years, 2 months and 4 days old.
	Her nature was such that made her highly respected by all
who knew her. And we may say, in the best sense of the
word, that Mary was a superior young lady; possessing


that innate refinement, which gives sublimity to womanly
character; added to this were gentleness and genuine
kindness, which won for her a great circle of friends.
Her whole soul seemed to be wrapped up in the study of
music, thus bringing sunshine in all our gatherings. She
was an active member in our Sabbath School, and was
ever striving to improve those talents with which her
Maker had most generously endowed her. And as
such she will ever live as a bright spark in the memories of
all, both old and young.
	It seemed that our dear sister was too good for this earth.
That mighty and noble spirit was too pure to be long en-
cased in that mortal casket. A greater and more glorious
sphere awaited her.
	She was permitted to see angels once or twice before she
died, and also had the privilege of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. She retained consciousness un-
til the last, giving instructions as to her burial etc., besides
giving a great deal of good and beneficial advice.
	Though hard indeed to part with one so good and
kind, yet one great comfort to the parent is to know that
God has blessed them with such a beautiful and noble
daughter; and to know that by faithfulness to the Gospel,
they will meet her again, filled with all the light and in-
telligence possible.
	We extend our sympathies to the bereaved ones; for we,
too, have sorrowed, and know how to appreciate the tears
which flow, when we are called to part with those whose
affections are entwined around our hearts. But, in all
our trials and afflictions we should remember this: "God
knows best."
	"Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore, 
	Thoughts of her virtues, increase more and more,
	'Twill be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet on heaven’s bright shore, 
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more."
		N. S.


"Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 25, as follows:
	Mary B. Martin, New York City, Decorat-
ing paper and other materials with oil colors.
	Mary E. Northen,Lanier, Texas, Dress-chart.
	Minnie B. Tate, Johnstown, Ill., Cooking
utensil."


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
