PERSONAL ADORNMENT.

	In the year 1770 a law was passed and duly
registered in France under Louis XV., which
read thus: "Whosoever, by means of red or
white paint, perfumes, essences, artificial teeth,
false hair, cotton wool, iron corsets, hoops,
shoes with high heels, or false hips, shall seek
to entice into the hands of marriage any male
subject of his Majesty, shall be prosecuted for
witchcraft, and declared incapable of matri-
mony."
	If such a law as the above were to be passed
by our law-makers, what a rustling there would
be among the ladies! Why, the Edmund's law
would be nowhere!
	But, putting aside the funny part of the
matter, let us look at the reality. I, for one,
think the French king was about right when
he thought that woman who were slaves to the
caprices of fashion were unfit for matrimony.
Certain it is, that if a woman is going to allow
her mind to be absorbed by the follies of the
day, her family will be neglected in some way.
Her children may be faultlessly clothed,
everything of the latest design, but where so
much attention is given to that, when is the
mind to receive its adornments and trimmings?
When do they find time (or, I might say take
the time) to lay up fresh beauties for our
mental development and cultivation? It is
quite safe to say not more than an hour a week
on an average.
	God has not blessed everyone with personal
beauty, but, with a very few exceptions, He
has blessed us all with bright intellects, and
for all His blessings we are in a measure ac-
coutnable for the use we make of them. And
are we to neglect the richest of all blessings
(the mind) merely that we may find time to
make what we think the necessary adornments
for our bodies that we may please for a while
till we have succeeded in catching a husband?
That is about the sum of it. If we watch we
can easily tell where this is more or less the
case. After the beauty of appearance has
fled, how miserable indeed must she be who
has devoted her time and means only to per-
sonal attractions. On the other hand, a
cultivated mind makes old age beautiful and
truly happy—a beauty and happiness that will
last through time and all eternity.
		H. A.


The Association for the Advancement of
Women will hold its thirteenth Congress in
Des Moines, Ia., Oct. 7, 8, 9, with executive
sessions at 10 a. m., and public sessions at 2.30
and 8 p.m.
     "The civic commemoration of the death of
General Grant will take place at Tremont
Temple on the afternoon of September 29.
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe will read an original
ode, and Henry Ward Beecher will deliver an
oration."


