BY L. K. YOUNG.

[Characters: Mary, Minnie, Rose, Ethel, Elsie,
Katie.]

	Mary.—Now, girls, as we have met in ac-
cordance with our appointment, we will pro-
ceed to give an account of  the different
organizations of the sisters, and the object of
their organization, or what items of informa-
tion we have been able to get.
	Minnie.—The Relief Society comes first,
does it not?
	Rose.—Yes; that was the first one organized,
	Ethel.—That was instituted by Joseph
Smith; but ma has forgotten the date of its 
organization.
	Elsie.—It was organized March 17th, 1842.
	Katie.—Has it been continued from that
time until the present?
	Ma.—No; it was inoperative from 1846, the
time of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo,
until 1855, when it was reorganized it Salt
Lake City.
	Eth.—And now there are many branches
of the Relief Society.
	Min.—Yes; there are many branches, but
they are all working in unison, striving to
assist in the building up of the Kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	Ma.—I have an extract from the history of
Joseph Smith, which defines the duties of the
Relief Society, and gives the names of the first
officers.
	Rose.—I, too, have an extract.
	Eth.—And I.
	El.—Mary, please give us your extract, and
then the rest of us will follow with our infor-
mation.
	Ma.—I can repeat it.  He says:  "March 24,
—I attended, by request, the Female Relief
Society, whose object is the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Its organization was completed this day.  Mrs.
Emma Smith takes the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Mrs. Sarah
Ann Cleveland are her counselors; Miss El-
vira Cole is treasurer; and our well-known
and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
secretary." 
	Eth.—In speaking of the sisters of our
Church, he says:  "Our ladies have always
been signalized for their acts of benevolence
and kindness; but the cruel usage they have 
received from the barbarians of Missouri has
hitherto prevented their extending the hand of
charity in a conspicuous manner."
	Min.—On another occasion he said:  "I met 
the members of the Female Relief Society, and
after presiding at the admission of many new
members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come in pos-
session of the privileges, blessings, and gifts of 
the Priesthood, and that signs should follow 
them—such as healing the sick, casting out
devils, etc., and that they might attain unto
these blessings by a virtuous life, and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the com-
mandments."
	Ka.—On page 49 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "Because
of these organizations Utah has no poor-
houses.  Under the kind and sisterly policy of 
this society the worthy poor feel much less
humiliated, and are better supplied, than any
alms-house system extant.  By an admirable
arrangement, under the form of visiting com-
mittees with well defined duties, the deserving
subjects of charity are seldom, if ever, ne-
glected or overlooked."
	Rose.—Where does the Relief Society get
their means to work with?
	El.—They had but little to begin with, but
by working they add to their capital, and the

[Column 2]
Lord is sure to bless everybody who works for
the building up of his kingdom, whether 
individually or collectively.
	Eth.—Some  branches of the Society have
built houses to meet in.
	Rose.—I wonder where the first Relief
Society house was built?
	Ma.—In the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake
City.
	Min.—The laying of the corner-stone of that 
building was performed by women.
	El.—On page 191 "Women of Mormondom"
I found an item which I will repeat:  "This
ceremony—the laying of the corner-stone—
being performed, was followed by appropriate
speech-making on the part of the presiding
officers of the society, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
Eliza R. Snow, and others, each in turn
mounting the corner-stone for a rostrum, and
each winning deserved applause from the as-
sembled thousands."
	Ka.—You will find in vol. iv., page 287,
"Times and Seasons," the first annual report
of the Relief Society.  They received during
that year in money, clothing, and provisions
507 dollars.  Of that, 306 dollars and 48 cents
was expended for the relief of the poor.
	Ma.—The Relief Society Central Board was
organized June 19th, 1880, with the following
named officers:  Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, President;
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, counselors; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
secretary; and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, trea-
surer.
	Min.—Since then Sister Whitney died.
	Ma.—Yes; but the vacancy caused by her
death has not yet been officially filled.
	Eth.—Was the Young Ladies' Association
the next one organized?
	Ma.—Yes; that was the second organization
of the women, but there was an organization
in Nauvoo called the Young Gentlemen's and
Ladies Relief Society.  They held their first
meeting one evening in the latter part of
January, 1843.  But their organization was
not completed until the 21st of March the
same year, with William Walker, President;
William Cutler, Vice-President; Lorin Walker,
treasurer; and James Monroe, secretary.
	Rose.—I have never heard of that before.
	Ka.—Mary read the account of their or-
ganization to several of us a few days ago.
	Rose.—What book is it in; I would like to
read it?
	Ma.—The "Times and Season," vol. iv.,
page 154.
	Min.—I was there and heard her read it.
They had such good meetings.  Joseph Smith
and others of the leading men attended their
meetings, and gave them very good instruc-
tions.  But Brother Heber C. Kimball took 
the lead in organizing them.
	Ma.—I will try to repeat an extract, which
may be found on page 155, vol. iv., "Times
and Seasons."  President Smith was present
at one of their meetings, when "he expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strongest
terms for having commenced and carried on
in so masterly a manner the good and glorious
work he had undertaken.  He said it would be
the means of doing much good, and of benefit-
ing his young friends more than they were
aware of; that the gratitude of all good men,
and of the young people whom he had so much
benefited, would follow him through life, and
when grey hairs should his temples adorn he
could look back with pleasure upon the winter
of 1843 when he was engaged in promoting
the cause of benevolence, and preparing his
young friends for the glorious career which
awaited them."
	Ka.—I will repeat another extract from the
same article, on page 157:  "If the youth
throughout the land would follow this good
example, and form themselves into such so-
cieties, there would be much less sin, iniquity,


misery and degredation among the young
people than there is at the present day. There
would not be as many suffering poor, neither
would there be as much immorality among
the people; but, on the contrary, peace, good
order, happiness, cheerfulness and plenty
would reign in the land, the Lord would look
down from his holy habitation, and smile upon
us and bless us all."
	El.—The Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association was first organized in May,
1867, in the Lion House, by Eliza R. S.
Smith, under the supervision of President
Young, with the instruction that his daughters
should compose the first organization. It be-
ing entirely a new move, so far as acting in
organized capacity was concerned, she thought
it advisable to appoint more than two coun-
selors, but afterward they were reduced to
two.
	Rose.—Can any of you tell who the first
officers were?
	Eth.—I can, all but the treasurer; I could
not learn who held that position at first. And
they had no treasurer, as they had no use for
one at that time. Mrs. Ella Young Empy
was President; Mrs. Mary E. Young Croxall,
Miss Maria Young, now Mrs. Dougall, Miss
Phebe Young, now Mrs. Beattie. Miss Julia
Young, now Mrs. Burton, Miss Zina Young,
now Mrs. Williams, were counselors.
	Min.—The Central Board presiding over all
the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the world was or-
ganized June 19th, 1880, with Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, President; Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor,
Miss Mattie Horne, now Mrs. Tingey, coun-
selors; Miss Louie M. Wells, secretary; and Mrs.
Fanny Young Thatcher, treasurer.
	Rose.—What is the object of this as-
sociation?
	Ma.—The name of the Association signifies
its object—mutual improvement—in behavior,
order, punctuality, refinement; in short, we
should as children of the Latter-day Saints
improve in all things.
	Min.—Yes, we should improve all the time.
Every day we can make a little advancement
towards perfection, and then we will not any
more than be prepared for the trials that we
may be called to pass through.
	Ka.—I think we had better take up the
Primary Association. They are a very essen-
tial organization. There we take our first
lessons in a public capacity, in bearing testi-
mony, giving recitations, etc.
	Rose.—And we are taught many good and
useful lessons, which if we give heed to will
prepare us for future usefulness.
	El.—The first Primary Association was
organized in the autumn of 1878, in Farming-
ton, Davis Co., with Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers
President; and in Salt Lake City, with Mrs.
Louie Felt President. The one in Farmington
was partially organized August 11th, but was
not completed until after the one in Salt Lake
City, which was in the Eleventh Ward.
	Ma.—The Central Board was organized the
same day the others were, with Mrs. Louie
Felt, President; Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt and
Mrs. Clara C. Cannon, counselors; Mrs. Lillie
Freze, secretary; and Miss Minnie Felt, trea-
surer.
	All.—And now the Relief Society has on
hand over 40,000 bushels of grain laid up
against a time of famine.


