WELL."

["Say ye to the righteous it shall be well with them, for
they shall reap the fruits of their doings."—ISAIAH.]

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
Eternal justice doth not sleep,
Say to the hosts of Israel—
"The Holy One" His word will keep.

What if opperssion's waves run high?
What if the devil is not bound? 
Shall you or I "The Faith's deny,
And traitors unto heaven be found?

Lo! he is great, whate'er his state,
Who clings to truth though trampled down,
Despite the ban of mortal man—
An honest soul is Nature's crown.

And what is man, and who is he,
Who would our very thoughts control?
Who laughs to scorn the Deity?
And fain would crush th' immortal soul?

"Aha! aha!" these scorners boast,
"God tarries in His hiding place."
They challenge thus the Lord of Hosts.
And fling the guantlet in His face.

Fools! fools! Indeed, ye cannot read
Their thoughts who trust in heaven for aid,
And thus ye ridicule their need,
And hope to see the just dismayed.

Stand by the truth, ye Saints oppressed, 
Ye "outcasts" for the Gospel's sake;
Gird up your loins, endure the test,
Nor for one moment fear or quake.

Bonds and imprisonment and death—
The limit this of Satan's spleen.
And what is life? a passing breath,
The portal of a brighter scene.

Through tribulation's stormy seas
The noblest spirits enter heaven;
The martyr'd ones—to these, to these
Shall starriest crowns and thrones be given.

Lord!  help us, whatsoe'er we do,
"To run the race" unmoved by fear,
To keep the promised prize in view,
To sense, to see, "the goal" is near.

Our children, may they proudly claim—
If nothing else they own on earth—
A spotless name, devoid of shame,
A noble heritage of worth.

'Tis certain that on history's page
Integrity to truth shall shine,
And doubtless 'tis, man's puny rage
Shall praise Omnipotence divine.

God wills to prove His own elect,
To cleanse "the wheat" from ev'ry tare;
"The little flock" He'll still protect,
Who cast upon Him all their care.

Though earth and hell their powers ally—
Yea, though they seemingly prevail
Against the Saints of God Most High—
Jehovah's purpose will not fail.

"Say to the righteous, All is well,"
The darkest hour precedes the day;
Say to the hosts of Israel:
"The Kingdom" shall be yours for aye.
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City.


