	VISIT TO SANPETE, AND MEETINGS.

	On Thursday morning, September 10th, we
started on a short visit to the sisters in Sanpete
Stake, expecting to attend the Conference of
Relief Society at Manti the following day.  At
Nephi we were joined by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth,
President of the Relief Society in Juab Stake, and 
together we journeyed onward to Moroni by train.
Arriving at Moroni, we dined at the Bishop's, and
a carriage was in waiting to convey the party to
Manti.  Our party consisted of four ladies and a 
little boy to drive, Eddie Christianson, a fine little
fellow and a very good charioteer.  Mrs. Deborah

[Column 2]
Irons joined us at Moroni, and Mrs. Ella Empey,
who, by the way, had been a traveling companion
all the way from Salt Lake, made up a very plea-
sant part for the ride to Manti.  We halted at
President Peterson's at Ephraim, and staid long
enough to rest the horses and take supper with
them,  and afterwards drove on to Manti.  The
next morning, Friday, September 11th, the Quar-
terly Conference of the Relief Society of Sanpete
Stake convened in the Council House at Manti,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde presiding.  There were present
of the brethren President Maiben, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, of Nephi, Bishops and others.
	As the secretary did not arrive with the minutes
and reports, the morning was occupied in speak-
ing.  President Maiben offered up a very eloquent
prayer, and the singing was excellent.  The 
President, Mrs. Hyde, made a brief address, and
was followed by Mrs. Jane Casto, President of
South Ward Relief Society, and Sister Deborah
Irons, counselor in the Relief Society at Moroni.
Each of these gave a good report of the respective
branch to which she belonged.
	The meeting was then addressed by Mrs. Amy
L. Bigler and Mrs. Mary Pichforth, of Nephi,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of this city.
	President Maiben made some closing remarks,
expressing his appreciation of the labors of the
Relief Society, and encouraging the sisters to per-
severe in doing good.  Choir sang in a very
impressive manner "How beauteous are their feet,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca Wanham.
	At the afternoon meeting two or three wagon
loads of peopel had come over from Ephraim—
President Peterson, Bishops Anderson and 
Dorius, among others.  Elder Frank Taylor was
also present to take charge of the choir.  Meeting
opened with spirited singing, and Bishop Ander-
son offered prayer.  After singing again, the
young secretary, Miss Mary Hyde, read the 
minutes of the previous Conference, which were
approved, and the statistical and financial reports
from various parts of the Stake.  Counselor Sarah
Peterson was the first speaker.  Her remarks were
principally upon the financial condition of the
Society, and said though they had over 5,000
bushels of wheat in the granaries, that was very
little if a famine was impending.  She also spoke 
of the factory that the sisters had anticipated
building, and spoke with much earnestness on
home manufacture and other similar subjects.
	President Hyde made some remarks on the
situation in which the people are placed at the
present time, and gave good advice and instruc-
tion to those associated with her in the Relief
Society, etc.
	Mrs. Hansen and Mrs. Ellen Dorius, of
Ephraim, and Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson, of Foun-
tain Green, represented the Society over which
each presided as in a favorable condition, and
added a testimony of the truth of the Gospel.  The
choir sang "Beautiful Home."
	Mrs. Rebecca Wareham, of Manti North Ward,
gave a report of the Society, and spoke upon the
appreciation of blessings, and alluded to the
storing of wheat, the exertions that had been
made in times past to glean, referred to the culti-
vation and manufacture of silk, and at the close
of her remarks, to the signs of the times.  Said
when we were driven from Nauvoo we were 
driven to a better land, etc.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the special mis-
sion of the sisters, of the labors in which they
were called to assist, of home manufacture; on
charity and integrity to all the principles of the
Gospel.
	President Canute Petersen referred to the exer-
tions that had been made to establish home in-
dustries, especially a tannery, and suggested the
appointing of a committee to ascertain the proba-
bilities of having a factory.  Nominated his
counselors, John B. Maiben and—Beal, as two
of said committee, and that they should have the


[Column 1]﻿ 
privilege of naming five, others to assist them.
Spoke mainly upon the persecutions the people
are enduring and said many good things, and
encouraged all to persevere, for those who would
keep a celestial law might expect to inherit a
celestial glory. Said what need the Saints care if
even a heavy storm does come and rock them
about, they have no fear as to the landing on safe
ground.		
	President Hyde put the motion of President
Petersen in reference to a committee of seven to
vote, and it was unanimously carried.
	Bishop Anderson of Ephraim then spoke a
short time upon the duties and labors of the
sisters and stated some of his views on the sub-
jects that had been introduced during the meeting.
	President Hyde adjourned the Conference until
the 19th of December, to be held at Ephraim.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we bless
thee.” Benediction by Patriarch Bigler.
	After meeting we had the privilege of going
through the Temple and environs, and were much
interested in all that we saw and heard. Presi-
dent Maiben and wife invited us to drive out with
them to the “warm springs,” a short distance out
on the route to Mayfield. We accepted the invi-
tation with pleasure, and thoroughly enjoyed the
romantic scenery, the hills and vales, the fields of
grain, and the new mown hay with its ever grate-
ful fragrance, all added to the consciousness of
pleasure, and for the time we gloried in the
beauties of nature. In the evening we had a pleasant
call from Mr. Harrington, editor of the Manti
Sentinel, a new enterprise in that locality.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Sanpete
Stake convened on Saturday morning, September
12th, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding. Minutes
of the previous Conference were read by the
secretary, Mrs. Parley Petersen, and general re-
marks were made by the young President calcu-
lated to give encouragement.
	Most excellent remarks were made by Mrs.
Mary Pitchforth to the young ladies upon im-
proving and educating their minds.
	One of the counselors of the Central Board
being present, spoke upon true womanhood, gave
excellent advice, and counseled the girls to
qualify themselves to be good and true wives and
mothers, and spoke of the motto of the Associa-
tion being improvement, and perfection the aim.
	The secretary read an essay on fashions, etc.,
which was very creditable.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the method of con-
ducting the meetings, urged the secretaries to
make their minutes brief and as perfect as pos-
sible, entreated the young girls to be prompt in
every duty, and be careful what company they
kept, avoid all excesses and the keeping of late
hours, which  often led to evil. Spoke of the
influence young ladies might exercise upon so-
ciety, and advised them to set up a high standard
of excellence to attain to.
	Miss Olive Lowry recited in a very expressive
manner a poem entitled "One Stalk of Wheat."
	President Maiben gave a brief address, exhort-
ing the young girls to improve the opportunities
now afforded them of laying up wisdom and
knowledge, and alluded to the subjects which had
been treated upon.
	Remarks were made suitable to the occasion by
Patriarch Bigler.
	Elder Frank Taylor made a few spirited re-
marks at the close of the meeting, giving the
young girls some excellent advice. Singing and
benediction.
	Primary Conference at 2 p.m., Mrs. Helena
Madsen presiding. The exercises of the children
were well rendered, and the singing was heavenly.
We expect hereafter to publish in detail the
exercises.
	The same evening we attended a general meet-
ing at Ephraim, in their large and commodious

[Column 2]
meeting house; a very full attendance of brethren
and sisters.
	Sunday morning.—Visited the Sunday Schools
of the North and South Wards, Ephraim, and in
the evening met with the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and Relief Society at Moroni.
	Monday.—We met with the Relief Society at
Nephi at 12 a.m., and dined at the residence of
Mrs. Rebecca Udall, with quite a pleasant party
of ladies. Altogether the visit to Sanpete was a
very pleasant affair, and we shall ever remember
the kind people we have met and associated with
in that Stake of Zion.


