OBSERVATIONS AND REFLECTIONS.

	How many people there are in the world
who love the marvelous, who watch eagerly for
something out of the usual line, and grasp with
avidity that which is scandalous or exciting.
How many writers there are who love to pander
to this weakness of human nature. Let mis-
fortunes overtake a person, and how soon the
tide of popular opinion is turned against him.
How quickly everybody remembers that he has
done something they have disapproved of, and
few are ready to encourage him or condone his
offense. The tongue of slander is ready to
vilify him, and ears are ever open to catch the
sweet morsel. Let the finger of scorn be
pointed at an individual, and a thousand
fingers are raised, many of them more deserv-
ing of scorn perhaps than the victim who has
incurred the censure of popular opinion.
	Many think to avert suspicion from them-
selves by turning the attention of the public
to the sins of their neighbors. Let a person
fall under criticism, and how soon it becomes
the style of every ill-natured scribbler to vent
his spleen through the press. How many sins
are condoned so long as the mask is worn that

[Column 2]

covers them from the public eye; but let that
be torn away and his fellows will pounce upon
him like wolves on a wounded companion and
rend him! Let a person, or a people, become
unpopular, and what wonderful ingenuity is
exercised in concocting and spreading reports
to their injury, and how eagerly they are swal-
lowed by a class of people who are constantly
on the gap for some obnoxious draught.
Nothing is too unreasonable if it panders to
the taste of the wonder loving multitude.
Nothing too noxious to excite the morbid
curiosity and satiate the appetite of public
opinion. The sacredness of the family circle
is invaded, and sensitive hearts are exposed,
torn and bleeding, to the curiosity of the gap-
ing crowd. Stories are set afloat and circulated
through the press that make the alleged actors
gaze with astonishment at the ingenuity of
their defamers. Men holding offices of respon-
sibility and trust are given characters such
as angels of darkness should blush to record.
When reading some wonderful story do we
ever stop to say: What if it should not be so?
What if all these nauseous drugs which we
swallow so easily are, after all, only bread pills,
and have really no bearing on the vital ques-
tion at issue? How many innocent victims
would be spared suffering and shame if people
would only ask themselves the question, What
if it should not be so? I am often astonished
at the worn-out fables that are cherished and
reported about Utah. After listening to one
of those "terrible episodes" of "Mormonism,"
which is certainly too silly to repeat, I asked
my informant what he thought of such a story.
He said he thought if they did such things they
should all be killed off. But I said, "Where
are the Federal courts; why did they not at-
tend to it?" He supposed the courts did not
know of it. How then did it get in the papers?
That seemed to puzzle him a little. I told him
if such things could happen, and the courts
not bring the guilty parties to punishment,
they were certainly derelict in their duties.
It is surprising to see the venom displayed by
many otherwise intelligent people in regard to
our Church. I inquired at a bookstore for
Phil Robinson's little book called "Saints
and Sinners." I explained that it was a work
published by a correspondent of the New York
World, and was entirely unbiased, the writer
taking an unprejudiced view of the people and
the country. He said he would order the
book if I wanted it, but he must inform me
that he was highly prejudiced against the
people and would not allow the book on his
shelves. I wanted to quote to him the words
of Paul: "He that answereth a matter before
he heareth it, it is a folly and a shame unto
him." I merely said that perhaps he was un-
justly prejudiced and passed out.
	I find many true loving Christian people
who are laboring for Christ and His cause, and
who seem sincere in feeling that all who em-
brace Christianity are the children of promise,
and I do not feel like condemning such, or feel
that they will be cast out from the blessings of
our Father's Kingdom. Christ says, "Blessed
are the pure in heart for they shall see God;"
and are there not many pure in heart who can-
not understand the principles of the "Ever-
lasting Gospel?" They hold their right of
salvation through Christ, and who shall say
they have not their reward? How I wish I
could bear a testimony that would impress
their minds and led them to see the principles
of life and salvation, but they will not listen.
The whole country is watching the progress of
events in Utah, and considers every conviction
another victory against plural marriage. If I
speak of injustice they tell me there is no in-
justice in making people obey the law. If I
say some were trying to obey it, only support-
ing their wives and children as humanity would
dictate, they say it serves them right; they

[Column 3]

should never have married them; they knew
better; the courts were sent there to put down
polygamy, and no method can be illegal that
accomplishes that purpose. That is the feeling
I meet almost universally. Not a heart even
throbs with pity for the wives and children
thus ruthlessly thrown on the charity of a cold
and unfeeling world. No sympathy for the
men who are suffering in felons' cells for main-
taining and defending the women who have
confided themselves to their love and protec-
tion. How then can I give them credit for
that charity which stands so high as a Chris-
tian grace, and when I see the hardness of
their hearts and their unwillingness to listen to
any good of those who are striving to live their
religion as a brotherhood in Christ? I think
God knows best, and He will judge the nations.
