SISTER MARY GRAY.

I am standing on the Summit of the years my feet have
	climbed,
I am standing on the Summit and the noontide bell hath
	chimed,
And I am gazing Eastward where life's morning sun arose,
Gazing back unto that sunrise through a maze of joys and
	woes.

Those stepping-stones to heaven the days, and months, the
	years,
Those stepping-stones, each laden with brightest hopes and
	fears,
Upon each I find some token of their having lived and
	died,
Upon each some blessed token, as a pearl left by the tide,

Sweeping inward from the ocena with its strong and mighty
	swell,
Sweeping inward to the shore where earthly mortals dwell,
Bringing its countless treasures from the deep sea's stormy 
	bed, 
Bringing its countless treasures, bearing back our lost and
	dead.

Here I find childhood's treasures, flowers so fresh and fair,
Here I find girlhood's treasures, bright eyes and sunny hair;
Hearts all so light and joyous with never a thought of pain,
Hearts all so light and joyous, Oh would they were so
	again.

Here I find tears and sobbing all through a weary night,
Here I find tears and sobbing, with a preayer for one ray of
	light,
Only one gleam from heaven, one word from our God
	above.
Only one gleam from heaven, and to know it was sent in
	love.

This cross that seems so heavy, so hard for me to bear,
This cross so very heavy, it into my soul doth wear,
And the thorns that pierce so deeply, hid in the flowers so
	bright,
Those thorns that pierce so deeply, and the gloom where I
	looked for light.

Yet I would not see the future, let it be a sealed book,
I would not see the future, I'm not brave enough to look,
Only I ask for courage each day my live to live,
Only I ask that courage and faith my God will give.

Still to press on in the pathway, that Christ our Lord hat
	trod.
Still to press on in the pathway, that will lead me back to 
	God,
Bearing like Him in meekness the cross so hard to bear,
Bearing like Him in meekness, that I the crown may wear.

		HOPE.
	September 8th, 1885.


[Column 1]

