PSALM.

	Thou who didst command Abraham to leave his native
land, and to separate himself from his father's house, Thou
art my God.


﻿Thou who didst so love the world as to give Thine Only
Begotten to suffer and die, to open the way that all who
yielded obedience to the Gospel He established might at-
tain to life eternal, Thou art my trust.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thine angel and restored the
Gospel in the fulness of its powers and ordinances, with
Apostles, Prophets, Pastors and Evangelists, as at the
beginning; and hast again committed the keys which Jesus
conferred on Peter, unto Thy servants, Thou art the God
whom I worship.
	Thou who hast sent forth Thy servants clothed with
authority to gather the honest of heart to the land which
Thou hast appointed for the gathering of the last days, and
the establishing of Thy Kingdom, Thou wilt accomplish
Thy purposes.
	In Thine own wisdom, and with outstretched hand,
Thou hast brought thy people to these mountain vales;
and here Thou hast inspired the hearts and nerved the
hands of thy sons and daughters, and through thy bles-
sing on their labors the sterile and forbidding desert is
yielding in its strength, and the barren wilderness is blosso-
ming as the rose
	Driven from the land that gave us birth, to the western
wilds, for an asylum of peace and religious liberty, which
for a season we enjoyed unmolested; "the accusers of the
brethren," like blood-thirsty hounds, scented our track
o'er the pathless desert, and sought out our far-off retreat.
	With wanton eyes and greedy hearts they lusted for the
possession of the hard-earned fruits of our untiring in-
dustry, and with measures concocted in the pest-house of
deceit, supported by falsehood, they have sought to sup-
plant us.
	All this, O Lord, Thou hast suffered, that the wicked
may fill their cup, and that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.
We know that persecution is a portion of the legacy which
the Messiah left to those who would follow Him.
	Therefore we will acknowledge thy hand, and without
fear or faltering, firmly maintain our integrity.
	Though the rod of oppression is laid heavily upon us,
and every avenue for escape should seem closed against
us, with no hand but Thine to deliver, Thou, O God, wilt
in Thine own time and way bring deliverance.
	Though the dark billows of persecuton swell high o'er
us, and threaten to swallow us up, we know assuredly that
when they shall have accomplished thy purpose, Thou
wilt say to the proud, upheaving waves, "Thus far shalt
thou go, and no farther."
	Though the wicked rise up in wrath against thine an-
nointed, and in bold defiance threaten to destroy thy
Priesthood from the earth as in a former period, Thou,
Lord, wilt provide a shield, and although it should be, as
it were in the last extremity, Thou hast established it upon
the earth for the last time, and it will never be removed.
	"Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts
with righteousness."
		E. R. S. S.
	Logan, August, 1885.


