	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society of
Utah County, held August 28th, 1885—Presi-
dent Mary John presiding with her counselors.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. The
minutes of former Conference were read by
secretary; also reports from the different
branches throughout the county etc.
	President John in her remarks said we are,
according to our report, great helps to our
brethren in many ways—in helping to build
Temples, Tabernacles, and in caring for the
sick and the afflicted, the poor and the needy;
and although we have no visitors with us
to-day, I feel that we can edify one another.
We will hear verbal reports from the Presi-
dents of the several branches of the Relief
Society of the Stake, and this afternoon we
expect to be favored with the company of some
of the brethren who will speak to us. Since
our last Conference we have sustained another
loss in the deat of Sister Beebe, who was our
treasurer, as also President of the Silk Associ-
ation of this Stake.
	The Relief Society of the county was repre-
sented, with but few exceptions, by the respec-
tive Presidents, the reports being favorable as
to an increase of faith and good works, and a
determinaton to press forward to the end and
gain salvation and eternal lives.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff spoke of the loss we
had sustained since our last Conference in the 
death of Sister Hester Ann Beebe; and said in
the last two years we have been called to
mourn the loss of three of our dear sisters who
were wont to meet with us here at this stand
—Sister Margaret A. Gluff, counselor, and our
beloved Ma Smoot, our President, and now
Sister Beebe, our treasurer, who was also Stake
President of the Silk Association of Utah

[Column 3]
County. Sister Cluff exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in attending these meetings, and also
the fast meetings, and said the good these
organizations are doing will never be esti-
mated until the great day of reckoning; ex-
horted mothers to guard their children, pray
with them, and teach them to pray, etc.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session was opened by the usual
exercises.  After a few remarks from Counselor
Marilla Daniels, the time was occupied by the 
brethren of the Presidency of the Stake.
	President H. H. Gluff being the first
speaker, spoke of our present persecution as
one of the greatest evidences of the truth of
this work.  God's purposes are peculiar, and
in direct opposition to the plans of man.  We
must maintain and promote the interests of 
this people, etc.
	President David John followed with good
counsels to all.
	President A. O. Smoot heartily endorsed the 
teachings we had received, and gave more
good counsel in regard to keeping out of
debt, and in regard to teaching the children
to be neat, industrious, humble and prayerful,
and not to follow after the fashions of
Babylon, etc.
	After a few more remarks from President
Mary John, Conference adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
