	OBJECT OF OUR REUNION.
	It seems hardly necessary to state the object
of a meeting of this class. It gives its own, on
the face of it. To write of the object of our
gathering to-day is like writing an introduc-
tion to a preface. But since it has been alloted
to me, there can be no harm in an expression
that may explain more fully, perhaps, than
the pleasant spirit that animates us all, why
we are assembled here on this occasion.


A reunion is a meeting of associates, and
may be for specified purposes.  Reunions are
held to meet old friends, to celebrate events,
to show respect for classes, people, or societies.
Our meeting to-day is a reunion to show re-
spect, in every sense of the word, to our fathers
and mothers whom we have invited to spend a
few hours with us.  While we trust we have so
conducted ourselves that our parents are well
aware that we venerate, love, and respect them,
yet we have invited them here to show that the
same regard which we cherish for them pri-
vately, we delight to show them in the society 
of our friends and the public.
	There is sweet melody in the sound of father
and mother.  We love to pronounce these
words.  The sound delights us as the merry
ripple of the brook; and we love them as the 
return of spring with the music of birds. When
we think of their labors for us, none among us 
can fail to feel the importance of their mission,
nor see the magnitude of their works.  They
have done many things for our good.  In re-
gard to parents, we are somewhat differently
situated from many of the children of the
earth.  Our parents were reformers.  They
marked out for themselves, early in life, a path
which varied from that in which the majority
of mankind trod, and for this innovation re-
ceived the jeers of the cold world.  They kept
steadfast, however, for their guide was the
Lord, and their trust the power of Omnipotence.
There is no necessity here to more than re-
mind the audience of the cares, labors, trials,
temptations and obstacles that have silvered
the hairs of the noble men and women whose
labors have brought us peace and plenty. 
They are too well known to need recounting.
The lesson we may learn, however, from their
experience should not be passed over so easily
and so lightly.  In all their tribulation they
were yet prosperous and contented.  This
prosperity and contentment sprang from their
obedience to God and to the whisperings of the
Holy Spirit,  so that in all their adversity they
could yet rejoice and praise God.  Through
His blessings they have made the desert waste
bloom with the prosperity of civilization. Their
homes have been blessed with children who
have grown up in the fear of the Lord, while
all around the Giver of all good has smiled
upon them with prosperity.  In common with
them, we enjoy all these mercies to-day, and
while so doing, it is highly proper to remember
the circumstances that brought these about, 
the vicissitudes that createdthem under the
power and guidance of God.  It is proper to
meet together, and, reflecting upon the past,
remember that it is our parents' adversity
which has led to our prosperity; their inspira-
tion which has led to our knowledge; their 
faith and works which inspire us to diligence
in the great work which lies before us.  It is
proper and well that we meet together in re-
union in honor of our parents, to show that we
appreciate what they have done for us, that
the love of their labors, toils, trials, is not for-
gotten by their children.  We cannot do
enough to show our appreciation, but they may
rest assured that we love them.  As sons and
daughters of such noble sires—men and 
women who battled and overcame, who planted
the feet of prosperity in the desert—we meet,
in a land which you have made delightful, to
welcome you to our little reunion, to extend
our love to you, to ask the Father of all to
continue his blessings upon you.
	We can offer you no great things, but as
your children we meet, and with one accord,
in songs and voices of praise, gratitude, love,
make the proud heavens of our free land ring
from mountain to mountain with your chil-
dren's "God bless you."
	REPORTER.
Ogden, Utah, Aug. 27, 1885.


