A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While looking at the scenes portrayed on
the panorama the other evening, I could not
help contrasting the different circumstances
and surroundings of the Latter-day Saints
to-day compared with those of the earlier days
of the Church. The paintings seemed so real,
so life-like, that it seemed to me that I was
passing through those scenes and could un-
derstand the feelings they had while passing
through those dreadful days. They must have
been men and women possessed of heroic cour-
age and powers of endurance, with mighty
faith in God; yes, more than that, they must
have known for a certainty that God lived,
that this was His Church, and that those who
keep the faith and endure to the end will en-
joy eternal blessings, or else they never could
have endured so patiently the hardships and
awful sufferings that they experienced, the


contempt and scorn of associates whom they
loved, the hatred and malice of the wicked
who thirsted for their blood; the bitter perse-
cutions and insults to which they were sub-
jected were trials so severe that they must have
lived very close to the Lord, called upon Him
in the depths of humility, and He heard their
pleadings. He knew their integrity and He
sustained and strengthened them, and enabled
many of them to come to these peaceful val-
leys, where they have not been tried in the
same way. I felt that evening, and do now
say, God bless every one who remained true
through those trials, and be merciful to the
weak who fell by the way. I wondered what
I would have done, how I would have acted,
had I been living then. Would I have kept
the faith and been true? I said in my heart,
O God give me strength and courage to do
whatever I am called to pass through, that I
may be worthy to be numbered with those
noble men and women who laid the founda-
tion of this work. I feel very thankful that
the Lord brought my parents here, and that I
had the privilege of being born in Zion, and
of being taught the principles of the Gospel in
my youth. I feel thankful that I believed
them and endeavored to practice them while
I was young, for by so doing I have been
greatly blessed, and have gained a knowledge
that I know they are true. I know that God
hears and answers prayers. I know there is
no happiness, no pleasure or satisfaction in
doing wrong, but there is true happiness in
doing right. There is a spirit of peace and
contentment in the heart of those who live
pure and virtuous lives that cannot be ob-
tained any other way.
		MATTIE.
	Nephi.


