YOUNG JOSEPH. 

	Young Joseph as he is called, is at the present,
time in Utah, and because he is ths son, of the
Prophet there may be those who would naturally
enough wish to see and hear him mainly because
he is the son of the Prophet Joseph. But al-
though he is the son of the Prophet, he is at the
present time at the head of a Church composed-
mostly of apostates from the true Church of
Christ and our avowed enemies seeking in our
midst whom they may destroy.
	They are, or the most of them, are apostates of
the darkest hue. They have not only apostatized
from the true Church but they seek to destroy it
and agitate a warfare against the people of God,
who have retained their faith in the Gospel.
	The Josephites claim to be guided by


the "Doctrine and Covenants" and are carrying out
the work commenced by the Prophet Joseph. I
once listened to one of their elders for a few mo-
ments, who was talking to a few persons who had
been enticed together to hear what he had to say
when there was a pause in the conversation. I
asked him the following questions which he
answered.
	Do you believe in sending missionaries to the
world to preach?
	Only a few at the present time.
	Do you believe in the gathering of the Saints?
	Not now, but will by and by.
	No, and do not expect to do so untill we get to
Jackson County.
	Do your people pay any tithing?
	No we do not.
	Do you believe in celestial marriage?
	No.
	Do you believe in plural marriage?
	No we surely do not.
	No, said I, nor in any of the fundamental princi-
ples of the work of God, as taught by the Prophet,
Joseph, and I left him.
	They frequently quote the saying of Paul:
"Prove all things and hold fast to that which is
good." When we know that they are apostates
and are full of animosity toward the Church of
Christ and would destroy it if they could, and that
they are full of darkness (for they cannot take the
Holy Ghost with them) and, as Jesus said, "how
great is that darkness;" when we know that they
want to draw down with themselves as Satan does
all they can to destruction and nothing to give to
us but the filth of apostacy, why should we wish
to prove them or hear them preach.
	Now, I say, let us not go after them, for if we
do we therby bid them God speed, and His
Spirit will not go with us, and we may not be en-
abled to find it again for (there are principalities
and powers above over which we have no con-
trol) or if we should have made a blotch upon
the great white sheet spread out before us on
which to write our character for eternity. If we
go upon Satan's ground he will claim his own as
he did with Moses because he sinned. Then as
Paul admonishes us, when we think we stand let
us take heed lest we fall and shun the very appear-
ance of evil.
	S. F. A.


