[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Power of Testimony]

TO have faith is to believe, to have testimony is to know.

Among the many beautiful things the Gospel teaches, none is more precious than that God lives and He will give us strength. To have this testimony is to be rich indeed. I wonder sometimes if we mothers in Israel, we women of the Relief Society, cherish this blessing as we should. I wonder if in our pursuit for cultural things we neglect to seek after and retain the spiritual blessings that are ours for the asking, the blessings that comfort in times of sorrow, that uplift and strengthen in times of despair.

It was neither wealth nor learning that sustained Job in his afflictions, but his testimony, for he said: "I know that my Redeemer lives and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." When his friends begged Job to curse God and forsake him, he answered "Should I put my cause before the Lord with arguments, He would not plead with me but He would give me strength."

Paul of Tarsus, a learned Jew, journeyed towards Damascus to help in the persecutions of the followers of Christ. As he neared the city he fell to the earth enveloped in a great light, and he heard a voice saying: "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" In that hour Saul knew the Lord. The power of this testimony changed Paul's course of life. It meant poverty, persecution and hatred of men, but it gave him strength for his mission to preach that Christ was the Son of God, to the Gentiles and in the synagogues, even to stand on Mars Hill at Athens and teach the stoics, philosophers and poets. When they scoffed saying "What can this babbling Jew teach us of philosophy?" he answered, "Ye men of Athens when I passed by your devotions I found an altar with this inscription, To The Unknown God, whom ye ignorantly worship, Him I declare unto you."

In this latter day the Lord revealed Himself to Joseph Smith, and through Joseph restored the pattern of the Church as it existed when Jesus was on the earth. Thus fulfilling Job's prophecy "That he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth." This testimony was to be taken to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and for this the Church sends forth missionaries to testify of the Gospel restored. Marvelous are the results of their labors and wonderful are the manifestations of the strength given them by the goodness of the Lord. Men whose names are immortal in "Mormon" history, who introduced the Gospel in foreign lands were blessed with power to make themselves understood even when they had no knowledge of the language of the people they taught. This was the case with Erastus Snow in Scandinavia, Franklin D. Richards in Germany, Lorenzo Snow in Italy, George Q. Cannon in Hawaii. So buoyed up were they that they seemed to walk with angels. So we might go on and enumerate for hours and tell some of the glorious stories in connection with this work, but there is a time and place provided for this exchange of spiritual thought and it may and ought to be the most precious and profitable thing in our work, for testimony is knowledge and knowledge is power.