[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
LESSON DEPARTMENT of literature. The choice of great books must be an individual one else reading becomes a discipline and not a delight. As "in the house of art there are many mansions," so in the 32] world of books there is a niche for every reader. To seek it is the adventure of reading, to find it is the delight. THE ROMANCE OF Long Aco "All that Mankind has done, thought, gained or been; it is lying as in magic preservation in the pages of Books."?Carlyle. READING is an introduction to R a world of adventure. The reader's world, the world of books, is a wonderful world. The records of men that have preserved the truth and beauty of the ages are waiting to serve as the genius of the lamp served Aladdin. As the "charmed magic casements open" to the reader many lands and times lie revealed; fancy and imagination create book-people and we become citizens of the world. As we explore the pleasant land of books, where countless pilgrims have gone before us, we shall do well to linger on the way and select a goodly company of book friends to laugh, love, and dream with on the journey of life. The Romance of Long Ago Literature recalls the past and makes it an ever-living present.
When fortune smiled upon primitive man it stimulated his imagination to dream and plan for more gifts.
Because of his limited understanding he accepted a supernatural source for his success.
Thus the fairy tale was born as the name implies "magic or supernatural." The acceptance of the supernatural elements in life in many lands became the origin of racial ceremonials and later religious rites.
Such was the source of the great Greek festival of Dionysus held in the spring of the year to accept the miraculous awakening of life. A picture of the folk-lore of two continents, Europe and Asia, reveals some interesting details. In the literature of the Orient elements of the stories of Aladdin, Ali Baba, and Sinbad are found in many countries.
Likewise in the literature of Western Europe, the dragon and the magic sword are enduring elements.
Medieval life in Europe became an excellent nursery for the "fairy" element in literature. The early growth of Christianity is responsible for the Grail legends that have endured in "Lohengrin" and "The Golden Legend."
Only a small portion of the exotic fairy lore of the Orient came to us until recent years. Arabic, Persian, and Egyptian literature came to us first.
Today new translations of Sanskrit, Chinese, and Japanese literature are received eagerly, because through these simple tales the hidden secrets of the origins of social and religious philosophy are revealed.
Today when all men are neighbors the past glows with a newer romance. Charles Kingsley expresses the universal interest of man for man: "Except a living man there is nothing more wonderful than a book!?a message from human souls whom we never saw, who lived perhaps thousands of miles away?they speak to us, amuse us, inspire us, teach us, open their hearts to us as brothers." The Thousand and One Nights The strange alluring, exotic life of the Orient is embodied in the tales commonly called "The Arabian Nights."
