WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
(First Utah lady to obtain a degree in Eng-
lish University.)
	Miss Reynolds whose full name is given
above has returned recently from abroad,
where she has been studying and has suc-
ceeded remarkably well and reached the
dignity of receiving a degree in an honor
which comparatively few American women
have ever obtained abroad. She is the first
from Utah to receive this reward of merit,
and the Utah women are certainly honored
in her successful achievement of this dis-
tinction.
	It is a well-known fact that our boys and
girls have, when studying in colleges and
universities in America, been quite success-
ful in any line of education as specialists or
otherwise which they have undertaken.
	The women of Utah will feel a pride in
the success of Miss Reynolds and will look
forward with fond anticipation to results in
her future pursuits of knowledge in the lines
of work wherein she has specialized.
	It has long been known among the peo-
ple of this state, that Miss Reynolds was a
brilliant scholar, and was doing excellent
work in the Brigham Young University.
And now we are justly proud that she has
been awarded this "high degree," from so
famous an institution as the London Uni-
versity. It is very well known how critical
these learned professors are, and therefore
we feel assured that Miss Reynolds has
"won her spurs" honorably and must have
been diligent in season and out of season,
or she could not have succeeded in meriting
the honor conferred. We are aware that
it is quite impossible to slight one's work
in those old and famous instiutions of learn-
ing.
	Miss Reynolds held the position of As-
sistant Professor of English in the Brigham
Young University at Provo for sixteen
years, and fianlly decided to travel through
some of the European countries and study

[Column 2]
in some of the famous institutions of learn-
ign in other lands.
	It is well understand that women students
at Oxford and Cambridge and other great
English schools are not granted a degree,
this is only done in the University of Lon-
don—therefore Miss Reynolds made choice
of that celebrated institution—and studied at
three of the many colleges of that Univer-
sity King's College on the Strand in South
Kensington and University College. The
courses she selected were special studies in
Tennyson, Arnold and Browning and a
course in higher criticism by Professor Ker,
a course in the romantic poets, by Guth-
keltch, and one in English history, by Pro-
fessor Polland. She also did research work
in the library of the British Museum, on
the history of the Tudor period and in the
life and works of Browning.
	Miss Reynolds it appears, had privileges
of social intercourse that are new to some of
us not familiar with English schools, etc.
	One very charming feature is a 4 o'clock
tea served in the women's rooms, and con-
siderable friednliness prevails during that
hour among the students. Chapel was an
interesting period, no one is admitted ex-
cept wearing the regulation costume. There
are many very new and interesting things,
that could be mentioned in connection with
Miss Reynolds' studies in these great old
English institutions and libraries—and it is
well for women who are desirous of gen-
eral information along literary lines to be-
come acquainted with these things from
those who have been among these wonderful
places and actually partaken of the uplifting
tendency of the higher and broader fields
of advancement and have come home to us
with the humility that is characteristic of a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Miss Reynolds has visited many of the
old cities on the continent, and we all know
travel is educational in the truest sense to
those who are at all observing, consequent-
ly the lady must have a mine of informa-
tion to impart to those who come within her
sphere of activity. She has been invited and
is expected to make an address during the
afternoon of the Relief Society Conference
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City,
early in October—the date not yet an-
nounced.


[Column 1]
		THE LUND HOME.
	How many women in the Church, I won-
der, know anything about the institution
known as the Lund Home. Shortly after
the years work of the Betterment Committee
—a work undertaken by some citizens purely
out of love for the youth of this city who
seemed to be just growing like weeds in big
gardens or undergrowth in some dense for-
est without discipline of any kind, without
care, and yet children of the state who. if
taken in hand by some one and guided aright
might become good and useful men and
women in the community, well. as I started
to say it was the conditions of these, shall
we call them wayward boys and girls or just
uncared for boys and girls that led some of
our thoughtful men to raise means and use
influence with the authorities to purchase a
large tract of land gaining a piece already
owned by the Church which had school
building thereon, and open a home for boys.
This home is kept up almost wholly by the
Church, and besides providing a home for

[Column 2]
these little fellows where the kindest atten-
tion possible is given them, it also affords
opportunity for work, school and play. The
only regret connected with the intsitution is
that enough people are not sufficiently inter-
ested to assist in this good work by contrib-
uting somewhat if ever so little towards the
place. A home such as this for children
should be made attractive with beautiful
pictures, good books, and pretty things so
far as possible and there are many people
no doubt who would be glad to give some-
thing of this kind to the home, if the mat-
ter was brought to their attention. While
the founding of this home was a beautiful
idea, one wonders why some such similar
place was not provided for little girls as
well. Don’t think that the boys are the
only ones necessary to save, and those who
know will tell you that it is much easier to
reform a boy who has gone wrong than it is
to reform a girl. Probably one reason for
this is that the boys are soon taken charge
of by the officers, while the girls inclined to
do wrong are left longer in the home where
the environment is anything but what it
ought to be.
	One of the women officers of the Juvenile
Court, when talking to a father about his
fourteen-year-old girl one day, was told by
that unworthy parent, that the only way to
deal with that girl was to take an ax to
her;” the lady replied, “No wonder your
little girl is delinquent when you speak like
that.” This same little girl was allowed to
remain in that home with that father and
the environment that such a parent would
naturally have in his home for two years,
and at the end of that time it became nec-
essary for the Juvenile Court to send her to
the State Industrial School, where she now
is an immoral degenerate. Perhaps had
there been a home for girls similar to the
Lund Home for boys, where she could have
been placed earlier, she might have been
saved. The work of the Big Sisters in try-
ing to reform and care for the girls after
dismissal from the Industrial Home, is most
commendable, but how much better it would
be could we save the little girls before the
Industrial Home becomes the only alterna-
tive, for after they have once been inmates
of that institution it is almost hopeless to
try to reform them. With the boys it is
different, they are in for petty thieving,
truancy, and delinquency and such offenses
and the reformation is not so hard, but with
education and proper training they leave the
Home wiser and better but the Superin-
tendent will tell you if you ask, and it is
known to be true, that almost every girl
there is immoral, and when she is discharged
she doesn’t as a general thing, care to re-
form, but in her maturer years prefers the
indolent rollicking life of the underworld
to the higher, better life of true woman-
hood. The blight is on her and she cannot
throw it off. Mothers, don’t your hearts
ache when you think of these poor girls.
Fathers, don’t you think a home should be
provided to save these little ones from sin:
God bless those who strive to help human-
ity in any way, but surely most of all those
who try to save humanity.
