		OGDEN STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference held
in Relief Society Hall, Ogden City, July 19,
1911, commencing at 10 a. m.
	We were honored with a visit from Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
President of all the Relief Societies through-
out the world. Also Sisters R. B. Penrose,
Amy B. Lyman, and Edna May Davis, mem-
bers of the General Board, and Annie Wells
Cannon, President Pioneer Stake.
	President Sarah M. Taylor presided and
conducted the exercises, after exercises, roll
call and prelude, prayer was offered by Sis-
ter Sarepta E. Cowles. Congregation sang,
“Oh Ye Mountains High.” Minutes read
and approved.
	President Taylor gave a few words of
welcome and hoped the spirit of the Lord
would be with us that we might have a
profitable time. President Taylor of the
Fourth Ward, Counselor Jensen of the Sixth
Ward, President Grace McFarland of
Huntsville, President Rosetta Shaw of the
Seventh Ward and Annie T. Dee of the
Eighth Ward reported.
	President Margaret Dodd of Eden and
Counselor Cora Budge of Pleasant View,
each gave encouraging words of what Re-
lief Society work had done for them, and
were thankful they were permitted to work
in so glorious a cause.
	A duet was very nicely rendered by Sis-
ters Beatrice L. Tribe and May L. Hobson,
members of the Stake Board.
	Sister R. B. Penrose of the General Board
was the next speaker, was delighted to work
in the cause of Relief Society and urged
strict attention to attendance. Many are
not living up to the principles of the gospel,
and it is for the Relief Society to gather in
the stray children and look after the way-
ward boys and girls. The work is growing,
there are sixty-two stakes engaged in Re-
lief Society work and fifty-three branches in
Great Britain, and others out in the world.
Prayed the blessing of the Lord would be
upon this work.
	Congregation sang, “High on the Moun-
tain Top.”
	President E. B. Wells referred to the first
organization of the Relief Society in Weber
Stake which occurred thirty-four years ago,
when Sister Jane S. Richards was appointed
president, paid a glowing tribute to her.
There were seven sisters present in the con-
gregation who attended the meeting at the
time of the organization, which was effected
by President Brigham Young. “Every wom-


[Column 1]
an in the Church who is a mother should be
a member of the Relief Society, value your
membership, there is nothing greater in the
world than doing the work the Savior did in
visiting the sick and helping the poor. There
is no organization of women in the world so
great as the Relief Society. It is not only the
first for women, but the greatest because of
the value of the work done in saving souls.”
Referred to the work that is taken up in Salt
Lake in regard to the wayward girls out on
parole from the industrial school, the same
work will be taken up here if it is not al-
ready. Also referred to mothers work. The
lectures should be given as much as possible
by Relief Society workers. Spoke of the
Chautauqua as being educational and ad-
vised all that could to visit the “Round
Table.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord
would attend all that we may feel encour-
aged and full of joy.
	President Taylor invited all to remain for
refreshments and enjoy the Social Hour.
	Congregation sang, “Zion Stands with
Hills Surrounded.”
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock after benedic-
tion by Sister Sarah E. Brown.
	Afternoon Session.—President Sarah M.
Taylor presiding. After roll call and pre-
lude, prayer was offered by Brother E. J.
Larkin of the High Council. Congregation
sang, “Oh, Say, What is Truth?” Minutes
read and approved. President Annie T. Dee
of the Eighth Ward gave notice that a prom-
inent woman, Mrs. Owen Wister, travel-
ing and lecturing in the interest of the Civic
League would visit Ogden, and invited all
to hear her. Also extended an invitation to
all the women of Ogden to visit the “Dee
Memorial Hospital” to see how it is man-
aged.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger spoke upon the
sacrament meeting and word of wisdom,
giving excellent ideas and thoughts regard-
ing these subjects. Instrumental music by
the Misses Wright.
	Sister Amy B. Lyman of the General
Board. Was very much pleased with our
outline work, was quite up to date and was
glad we had taken up Sanitation, something
that is so much needed. Also pleased with
the reports, especially where more families
were visited than were members of the
Church, liked the spirit of hospitality, hoped
the time would come when we would have
more young mothers in Relief Society work.
Urged the mothers to train their girls for
home life.
	Brother Elijah Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, paid a high tribute to motherhood, and
the kindness of the sisters to the missionary
boy, and the great good done by Relief
Society work in general. Spoke of the
Chautauqua, that it would be held during
the month. It is for education and devel-
opment and would also be entertaining in a
musical way.
	Musical selection, the Misses Wright.
	Sister Edna May Davis of the General
Board advised the mothers as to the cloth-
ing that should be worn by the daughters
of Zion in going through the temple. Should
be plain and neat, not much trimming, but
beautifully simple, and read some para-
graphs from the Book of Mormon applic-
able to our time.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon, President of the.
Pioneer Stake, was pleased with the beauti-
ful spirit that was in our midst. All the
sons and daughters of God are equal, and

[Column 2]
the Relief Society is open to all good wom-
en, in it we have much to broaden our minds,
we improve ourselves and scatter incense to
those around. “There are many evils con-
fronting us, especially the young, then let us
get them into our associations and it will
be a safeguard to them.”
	President E. B. Wells was sorry Sister
Jane S. Richards, on account of feeble
health, could not be with us. One who had
labored so long and has done so much good
among the weak and the tempted, and the
needy. The teachers are the backbone of
the Relief Society. To be a teacher is the
way to get an education in the work, had
been a teacher herself. Spoke of the Wom-
an’s Exponent, was the first woman’s paper
published this side of the Mississippi river, is
a paper all should read, and hoped more
would subscribe for it, and hoped the presi-
dent would see that an agent is appointed.
Bore her testimony to the divinity of the
work and of the divine mission of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, also urged the sisters to re-
member the dead, we have a work to per-
form for them. Hoped the blessings of the
Lord would rest upon all.
	President Taylor stated we would do the
best we could for the Woman’s Exponent
to make it a self-supporting paper. Felt
highly honored in having Sister Wells, and
the members of the General Board with us
and felt to give them a vote of thanks in
behalf of the Ogden Stake, it was a unani-
mous vote. Conference was adjourned for
three months.
	Congregation sang, “God be with you till
we meet again.” Benediction by Eliza Rhees
of Pleasant View.
		—Elizabeth M. Goddard, Asst. Sec.


