A CHALLENGE.
Come, Worry, let us walk abroad today;
Let’s take a little run along the way:
I know a sunny path that leads from Fear
Up to the lovely fields of Wholesome Cheer.
	So, Worry, come along!

We started on our way, I and my Care.
I set the pace on through the springtime air.
But ere we’d gone a mile poor Worry stopped,
Tried hard to catch his breath, and then he
	dropped,
		Whilst I went on—
An easy winner of that Marathon.

And since that day when vexed by any fear,
When Worry’s come again with visage drear,
I’ve challenged him to join me in that race,
And found each time he could not stand the
	pace.
	—John Kendrick Bangs in September Ainslee’s.


[Column 1]
	HESTER GOLDING’S TESTIMONY.
	Hester Golding was a Mormon girl, born
and raised in Salt Lake City. When she
graduated from the High School she had
a very strong desire for a college education
but her father’s family was large and his in-
come small, so she had to curb her educa-
tional ambitions and face the reality which
so many boys and girls have to meet, of
providing for herself and assisting with the
home expenses. A good girl and well
trained, was Hester Golding, and she easily
won friends among her associates. She nev-
er, however, relied wholly on her own
strength or resources, but through her re-
ligious training she had learned to have
explicit faith in something beyond this life,
and her trust in her Heavenly Father was 
so sincere and unfailing that to Him she
ascribes all the success she ever had in life. 
	Notwithstanding the many calls made up-
on her and the low wages paid her for ser-
vices in the art department of the big store
where she found employment, she never
ceased to feel that she might yet acquire
further knowledge and opportunities if she
tried. She saved something every week
denying herself of course all the extrav-
agances and many of the necessaries that
other girls enjoy so. At the end of two
years she set out for Chicago to study art
in the university of that city.
	When Hester left the loved family and
her home city, where almost every face she
met was familiar and every building and
turning in the street was home, and where
all nature seemed to be a part of her self,
for in the evenings she would linger on her
way home from work to watch the beauti-
ful colors of the setting sun thrown on the
peaks of the purple hills to the east, and the
great red and golden clouds floating above
her and build wonderful air castles of her
future work, she little dreamed of the lone-
liness that would possess her when in that
great, busy city. She walked along the nar-
row streets walled in with towering busi-
ness blocks like great dark canyons, (not
broad city thoroughfares,) with the hurrying 
and bustling and whirling of a throng of 
strange figures, not one familiar face, not
one kind greeting. No desert could seem
more lonely, and the poor girl soon found
she must needs muster all her strength and
all her faith to enable her to stand it. She
also soon discovered that living at home
with mother was a very different thing to 

[Column 2]
living in a hired apartment, and that where
formerly little services were lovingly given
by mother now an exact payment was re-
quired for everything, and soon the poor
girl saw her meager savings big as they
looked at home would not be sufficient to
carry her through the first years’ work in
this strange city.
	Hester determined, therefore, to seek em-
ployment, believing she would be able to
work and still have some hours to give in a
home or an office if only some such position
might be found. Seeking employment in a
strange city is very different to seeking it at
home, and not having any references she
found homes closed to her, and her first at-
tempt in answering an advertisement for
girls led her into a trap from which she
escaped almost miraculously. Believing that
her guardian angel had helped her this time,
she made an earnest prayer to be led by the
Spirit of the Lord and to have discretion
where to go.
	The morning after her unfortunate en-
counter she read in the “Times” an ad for a
young woman to care for costumes and ap-
parrel, connected with an art school, and
she decided to make one more attempt.
	This morning she had no trepidation, no
fear, she had prayed earnestly and placed
her trust in God, and she went out armed
with perfect faith. When she reached the
building she was ushered into a waiting
room, where twenty women had preceded
her, applying for the position. She took a
seat near the door of an inner office and
watched while several applicants were ush-
ered in, and then passed out again evidently
not giving satisfaction. She observed
while sitting there the different types and
wondered what particular questions would
be asked and what different peculiarities
would be noted by the questioner. She felt
herself something different to them all and
though it might seem egotistic she felt this
difference, though undefinable, was some-
thing better. To her surprise she was called
before many who had been there when she
arrived, and something whispered, Give a
true answer to every question. She had ex-
pected to do this, but had thought the ques-
tions would refer to her ability and work,
whereas the great question was, Where are
you from? She might have evaded the 
straight answer and given the name and
street of her Chicago apartment, but remem-
bering the silent whisper, she promptly an-
swered, Salt Lake City. The typewriter in
the room ceased work, the bookkeeper
stopped his pen, there was not a sound heard
for fully two seconds, then the questioner
asked, Are you a Mormon? “Yes sir, I
am!” was the quick reply. And Hester
then thought, Well, I guess that ends my
interview, and her face, which at first she
felt had reddened by the consciousness of 
the steady gaze upon her, she knew had
turned pale, for her heart began to ache
with a fear of disappointment. But when
the questioner again spoke, she knew he
felt kindly, for he immediately said, I have
been in your city you call Zion, and I never
was treated so good in all my life, as among
you Mormons. Why they don’t consider it
any work at all to show a fellow all around,
let him hear the most beautiful music on
your wonderful organ, explain all about
your big buildings and refuse to accept a
cent for anything. What are you doing here
in Chicago, little girl? Studying art in the
university, and I need more means or I

[Column 3]
can’t stay the year out. I think I could do
this work in connection with my school.
“Why, so you can. Give your name and ad-
dress to the clerk and in the next room
Madam Moore will give you instruction as
to your work.”
	Hester afterwards learned that this place
was a department of the school she was at-
tending, and she was able to remain in
Chicago four years and take a degree in the
school of design and art, through having se-
cured this position. When she left her home
there were many friends who regretted her
leaving them, none more so than her as-
sociates in the costume department. When 
Hester refers to this experience it is with
greatest reverence, for she knows that her
Heavenly Father guided and guarded her
through those four years in the heart of a 
wicked city, and kept her pure in heart and
soul. 
	“Faith lights us through the dark to Deity.”
