SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	AUGUST, 1911


[Column 1]
		ACTIVE SERVICE.
	This term, active service, is not so com-
mon as work, and perhaps means quite as
much, if not more, both terms are used but
the world needs practical self-helpfulness,
not in word, but in deed. The old saying,
Satan finds mischief for idle hands, is as
true today as it ever was, and really one
who looks around nowadays, sees many idle
hands, and inactivity that produces stagna-
tion. The complaint “out of work, no em-
ployment” is heard on every hand, and yet
there is always something to be done and
people can find work, if willing to submit to
conditions, or to make exertions in the right 
direction. However, no one can settle this
question for the world at large, but every
individual who perseveres can find some
sort of work, that is better than idleness.
	The cause undoubtedly of so much sin and
crime in the present day is because people 
are not willing to do the work that is not
agreeable, and yet any work is helpful and
will keep one in better condition physically
than idleness and inactivity, which is more
or less deteriorating. Life has many phases
and the world is full of opportunities, and
the idea that there is not work to be done is
preposterous.
	Women as well as men seem to have an
idea that a certain kind of work is beneath
them, whereas all work of whatever kind
well done is better than idleness. Certainly
one must put thought into the work however
simple the task. Do the work well no matter
how commonplace the position; make it as
genuinely important as possible.
	In the early days in New England when
labor was considered honorable, building
stone walls around the farm was quite the
fashion, and gentlemen (so accounted) were
proud of the walls built with their own
hands, when every stone put into the wall,
and there were acres and acres of these
walls, was taken from the ground with their
own hands; on purpose to clear the ground
so that vegetables, etc., could grow as well
as to protect one’s own land, but the stories
we could tell of these primitive doings would
fill pages of history; but today a stone wall
left standing is a historic feature in the
scenery to be admired.
	In the early days in the valley here in
Utah, there were some stone walls, and peo-
ple who were anxious to denounce Brigham
Young and his ideas of what was expedient
in those times, had a great deal to say about

[Column 2]
the high stone walls, that were built round
some of the homes and gardens in the city
of Salt Lake, but it gave men some work
to do, to pay for food for themselves, and
families; and it is far better and makes one
more independent to work for one's provi-
sions or supplies than to have it given in
charity. It is all right to disperse charity
to the sick and those unable to work, but
not to men and women, who can work for
their living.
	The Latter-day Saints have always been
taught that idleness was sin; the Bible
teaches it, and it is through active work that
prosperity comes, and also happiness. “There
is no excellence without labor” is true today
and always will be.
	There seems to be a spirit of unrest abroad
in the world, that is against work of any
sort, and it will bring distress and misery
unless checked in some positive way that
will compel the idler to work. Activity in
the strict sense of the word means temporal
salvation.
	Among many of the young people of to-
day, there is a desire to do as little as pos-
sible of any sort of work, and to have every-
thing made easy for them; and this erro-
neous idea is leading many into temptation
that will eventually end in destruction of
soul and body. The very thought is hor-
rifying: what can be done, to resist the
growth of this unrest, this tendency to idle-
ness that is sweeping over the land.
	Some people assert that it is only the ig-
norant classes that are shirking the duties
and responsibilities of life; but this is not
correct, it is prevalent among those who
have had good advantages; if girls who
are out of employment want positions they
are very much in the habit of asking if they
can use the piano, and have you such and
such conveniences, every sort of new in-
ventions and appliances to make the work
easy, instead of having an actual desire to
do the work of the household.
	Boys all want to be clerks and lawyers
and doctors and so on, and who is to till the
soil, intelligently, and when is the grain and
the vegetables and the fruits to come from
when agriculture is looked upon as an oc-
cupation unfit for our young men of the 
present age.
	Practical work, active service will be the
temporal salvation of our young people, and
one may say too the spiritual salvation as
well, if it can only be fostered and encour-
aged and insisted upon, too much excite-
ment lowers the tone of human life.
	The inordinate passion for finery in dress,
and in the home is a depraved taste. Sim-
plicity in all the details of living is what
will bring about a material change that
would be helpful in every aspect, and there
would be less sickness and ill health and
would most assuredly promote the prolong-
ation of human life, which is proper and
desirable.
	The tendency of the age is in direct ap-
position to that which is pure and virtuous
and upright. People feel they must have
extravagances, beyond their means, must
go into debt, must mortgage their homes,
and enter into all sorts of schemes, and
policies and run risks of all kinds, to keep
up appearances, instead of living within the
limit of what they can honestly earn and
pay for. One has no right perhaps to say,

[Column 3]
where the blame lies, but in many cases, it
is to be like other people.
	The children must be kept in school year
after year when needed at home, because
other families keep their children away at
school or in colleges, and the home is neg-
lected because the mother cannot carry the
whole burden. Disaster often follows and
the home is involved or the rent is over-due
and so the home is broken up, the parents
over-worked, and family life utterly de-
stroyed.
	The home is the center of all that makes
for the betterment of communities and 
countries—the primitive ideas of home life
in Utah when the people settled in this new
land, that each family have a small piece
of land on which to build a home, and have
a garden and orchard, if ever so small, was
ideal. Naturally as the city grew there were
changes made, but we can still find some of
 these very same places, that have not been
sold, and the descendants of the original
owners in possession. Naturally after three
score years and more, many wonderful
changes in places and circumstances must 
have taken place, and progress must make
new methods and new paths and open up
avenues for improvement along many lines,
yet one can still persist in some of the 
original ways of living; that were vastly
better for life and health, and soundness
of mind, and strength of body, and activity
of brain than the practices and methods of
the present time.
	To be sure one is out of poise of the times
if you preach economy or industry the cry
is “we must have a good time” and that to
the majority of people nowadays means go-
ing hither and thither, late hours, all sorts
of pleasures, (that end in pain) and no mat-
ter where the money comes from! The
prospect is appalling. To one whose mind
is in tune with higher things, it is very de-
pressing, and what can be done to arrest this
terrible unrest?
	The best remedy lies in active service of
some kind, keep the girls within the shelter
of the home; and the boys too as much as
possible, teach them that nobility of work,
that all service is helpful in life, if done with
a true purpose, and done well, and that obe-
dience to parents, and to proper authority is
not humiliating, but on the contrary tend to
preserve order in home life as well as in
neighborhoods, communities, and keeps so-
ciety and the world in harmony with the
conditions that prevail as instituted by the
Creator of all things, and apparent every-
where throughout the universe, above and 
below.

“Yet scattered here and there, we some behold,
Who can discern the tinsel from the gold.”


