HEREDITY.
There is no thing we can not overcome;
Say not thy evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait inborn makes thy whole
life forlorn,
And calls down punishment that is not mer-
ited.
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The Great Eternal Will. That, too, is thine
Inheritance, strong, beautiful, divine,
Sure lever of success for one who tries.
Pry up thy fault with this great lever—Will.
However deeply bedded in propensity,
However firmly set, I tell thee firmer yet,
Is that vast power that comes from Truth’s
immensity.
Thou art a part of that strange world, I say,
Its forces lie within thee, stronger far
Than all thy mortal sins and frailties are,
Believe thyself divine and watch and pray.
There is no noble height thou canst not climb;
All triumphs may be thine in Time’s futurity;
If, whatso’er thy fault, thou dost not faint or
halt,
But lean upon the staff of God’s security.
Earth has no claim the soul can not contest.
Know thyself part of the Eternal Source;
Naught can stand before thy spirit’s force;
The soul’s Divine Inheritance is best.
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


[Column 1]
		LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER.
	The sad news of Mrs. Hollister’s death
was indeed a severe shock to her many
friend among the women workers of the
world. Of the women’s societies of Utah, es-
ecially the organizations affiliated with the
National Council of Women, Mrs. Hollister
was a staunch friend and defender. Pos-
sessed of wonderful foresight, discretion and
wisdom, she had the gift to distinguish be-
tween the true and the false, and to appre-
ciate earnest endeavor with the courage to
extend her influence and encouragement to
all women in the cause of good.
	Lilliam M. Hollister, President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States and Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the world,
passed from life to that “Beautiful Isle of
Somewhere,” Friday morning, August 4,
1911, at her summer home, Lilley, Mich.
She was one of the country’s most power-
ful workers, both in the interests of women’s
organizations and women’s fraternal circles,
and there are few women’s societies in this
broad land which either through her lec-
tures or writings have not become familiar
with her charming personality. She was
born in Milford, Mich., and that state has
ever been her real home, though she has 
traveled extensively in many lands. She be-
gan her education when a child of four
years, walking a mile to the little red school
house. She had an excellent musical educa-
tion which training served her well in later
life, when as a public speaker she charmed
her hearers with her beautiful voice. Her
career was ever onward and upward—a
busy, unselfish, helpful life from school girl
to teacher, from teacher to superintendent,
—then writer, lecturer and philanthropist.
She compiled a number of very useful books
on parliamentary law, which are used large-
ly by the women’s clubs and organizations
throughout the country and was considered
one of the very best parliamentariens among
the women of the country.
	Mrs. Hollister was also associated with
the W. C. T. A., the Women’s International
and State Press Associations, Federation of
Women’s Clubs, Woman’s Relief Corps,
Order of the Eastern Star, Rebekahs and
the Degree of Honor. She has been sev-
eral times a delegate to foreign countries
from these different organizations and has
spoken before large assemblies in London,
Edinburg, and other European cities. She
was also one of the thirteen women chosen
to speak in the Lafayette Opera House,
Washington, D. C., on the 15th of Febru-
ary 1900, the occasion being the 80th anni-
versary of Susan B. Anthony’s birth.
	Mrs. Holister was a woman of command-
ing presence, with a fine, intellectual face
and a most charming personality. Some of
those who knew her worth and loved her 
best have sent us the following sentiments
for publication:
	Flo Jamison Miller, Cor. Sec. N. C. W.,
writes:

[Column 2]
	“A great woman has fallen, something precious
has been removed to a brighter world. The why
we know not, we dare not question. ’Tis enough
for us to feel and know that ‘God’s finger touched
her and she slept.”

	Think of her still as the same, 
		I say, 
	She is not dead, she is just away.”

	The Rev. Anna Shaw says—
	“I cannot express my sorrow on hearing of the
death of Mrs. Hollister. She was a woman who
had done more good works than any one dreamed 
of. She demonstrated the financial integrity and 
ability of women as few women have had the
opportunity to do. She has been loyal in every 
position in which she was placed.”

Mrs. May Wright Sewall—
	“I cannot grieve for Mrs. Hollister herself, but
I grieve for her friends and associate workers.”

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice President
N. C. W.—

	“The news of Mrs. Hollister’s death is one of
the greatest shocks I have ever had.”

	There are many other expressions from
prominent women testifying to the great
worth of Lillian M. Hollister and the loss
sustained in her death by the women work-
ing along the different lines for the uplift 
of humanity. To the women of Utah she
was a true friend, and we mingle our tears
with those who loved her, knowing that one
of God’s chosen daughters has been called
home.—A.W. C.


