NOTES AND NEWS.
	At a special meeting, held April 3, the
Corporation of the City of London passed
the following resolution: “We hereby pe-
tition Parliament to pass at the present ses-
sion the women’s suffrage bill now before
it that the Lord Mayor, together with the
other civic officers, go to present the peti-
tion to the bar of the House of Commons,
and that the reasonable expenses of the
Lord Mayor and the civic officials be de-
frayed from the borough fund.”
	Governor Shafroth is said to favor the
choice of a Colorado woman for Congress
if a fourth Congressional district is estab-
lished in that State. “We are bonud to get
the fourth Congressman,” the Governor is
reported as saying, in the Denver Express.
“Unless there is a constitutional obstacle,
and I know of none, there are women in
this State who could adequately fill the po-
sition.” Mrs. Katharine Williamson, Mrs.
Mary C. C. Bradford, and Mrs. Sarah Platt
Decker are all spoken of for the place.
	Colorado women will have to be reck-
oned with by the two old political parties in
the next campaign. They have started a
movement that has for its purpose the or-
ganization of a non-partisan party to force
the recognition of their political rights; al-
so to force the two old parties to nominate
good men and more women to public office,
as well as to bring about a more liberal dis-
tribution of patronage.
	It is but a poor standard of success that
is measured by gold and silver; a noble bear-
ing, a lofty brow, a kindly smile, a self con-
trol, clear eye, bespeaks a success that is
more real. The only victory worth making
is the victory over one’s self; the only real
success lies in the development of character
and insight; the only thing worth seeking
is the Soul; the only thing worth possessing
is the Truth; the only thing worth living for
is Love. And this is the greatest success—
to have ennobled your environment, to have
done good, to have given happiness, to be
happy; for Virtue alone wears a serene
smile, and Wisdom only is truly happy.—
Stanton Kirkham Davis.


