RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
			NEBO STAKE. 
	The uarterly conference of Nebo Stake
Relief Society was held March 31, 1911, at
Payson, Utah. Conference convened at 10
o’clock a. m., President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding. President Dixon made opening re-
marks, and gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society. Sister Martha S. Kapple
reported the visits made to the various
wards during the year, and spoke words of
encouragement to the sisters.
	Sister Dixon read an article on the duties
of the Relief Society.
	Sister Tompson reported Spanish Fork
First Ward in good condition, and bore her
testimony to the truth of the gospel. Sis-
ter Jones reported the Third Ward of Span-
ish Fork in good condition. Sister Snell
reported the Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork
in good condition and doing their duty. 
	Recitation by Sister Simmons, entitled
“The Shipwreck.”
	Sister Broam reported Eureka Ward do-
ing remarkably well under their circum-
stances. Brother Jacob Sharer said he was
surprised (after listening to the reports of
the various wards) at the amount of good
the Relief Society was doing, and the great
work they are performing. Said it is the
work of the Lord. Spoke of the influence
women have had in the history of the world. 
	President Dixon made a few closing re-
marks. Morning session adjourned. 
	Continued at 2 o’clock, Prest. Eliza J. 
Dixon presiding. Sister Martha S. Kapple
in charge. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Pickering gave a report of Pay-
son, have good attendance, are doing good
work. Sister Forcey reported Mammoth
doing good work, taking care of the sick,
and feeding the poor. Sister Greenhalch re-
ported Santaquin doing good work and
prospering. Sister Pierce reported Salem
in good condition. Sister Kapple was
pleased with the reports of the various
wards. Sister Evans read a revelation from
Doctrine and Covenants, given through
Joseph Smith to Sister Emma Smith, and
commented upon it. 
	Duet by Sisters Gardener and Nebeker,
entitled Madaline. 
	Brothers Hanks was always pleased to at-
tend conference of the sisters because the
spirit of the Lord is always with them.
Brother Nebeker said the sisters had the
spirit of their work. Brother Ryde spoke a
short time and read a passage from the
Bible where it said there was a time for all
things, praised the Relief Society for their
excellent work. Sister Dixon was very


[Column 1]
much pleased with the excellent work the
sisters were doing. Conference adjourned
for three months after singing, “Come, Let
Us Anew Our Journey Pursue.” Benedic-
tion by Sister McKell. Sister Dixon thanked
the sisters for their hospitality.
—E. A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Nebo
Stake, held June 23, 1911, at Spanish Fork
Second Ward meeting house. President
Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
exercises Sister Tompson spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening re-
marks, was pleased to have our visiting sis-
ters of the General Board with us, was
thankful for the different organizations and
the opportunity we have of improving the
talents God has given us. Gave a report of
Nebo Stake Relief Society. Clarissa S.
Williams, first counselor to President E.
B. Wells in the General Relief Society,
spoke for some time, said what is a trial to
one is not a trial to others. Advised Relief
Society teachers to visit every family that
lives in the ward whether they belong to
our Church or not, and testify to them of
the truthfulness of the gospel; it is our duty
as members of our Church. President E. B.
Wells sends her love and blessing to the
sisters of the Nebo Stake. Sister Emily S.
Richards of the General Board talked for
some time, was grateful for the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society. “We should be
careful what we say of others, for one
word spoken is hard to recall because it
soon spreads.”
	Recitation, Sister Maggie Ludlow, en-
titled “The Organ Builder.”
	Sister Money said she had belonged to
the Church over sixty years, accepted the
gospel in Scotland, had seen the power of
God made manifest many times, told of
crossing the plains and how she had been
blessed. Conference adjourned until 1:30
o’clock p. m., after singing, “For the
Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee,” and
benediction by Sister Evans.

	At 1:30 o’clock conference reconvened,
president Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, “Come, Come, Ye Saints.” Prayer,
Brother Gardener. Singing, “High on the
Mountain Top.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards said we should
take our children into our confidence and
make them our companions, should talk to
them on the sacredness of motherhood and
fatherhood, should extend our hand to the
fallen and those that make mistakes.
	Song by Sister Edna Holt, entitled “Some
Other Day.”
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
our children should be married in the temple
for time and eternity, and asked parents to
encourage their young people to go to the
temple and go with their own temple clothes.
Advised the Relief Society to keep temple
clothes to rent, teach your daughters the
sacredness of the temple clothes. It is our
duty to do all we can to make ourselves
worthy of our children, and our children
worthy of us. Said we put too much trust
in the family doctor and not enough in our
Heavenly Father. We should sustain those
that are called to preside over us.
	Song by Sister Davis.
	Brother Lemon spoke for some time on
the work of the Relief Society, should teach
the sisters how to train their children; we
have to learn here a little and there a little;

[Column 2]
we are not all alike, but should treat all
right and not say anything bad about any
one, even if we don’t like them. Said we
should accept the gospel and live it. Broth-
er Joseph Reece said much depended on the
mothers in Israel, most good boys and girls
have good mothers. There is no greater
work being done in the Church than is be-
ing done by the Relief Society, asked the
blessings of the Lord on the sisters. Brother
August Swensen said he had enjoyed the
remarks that had been made also spoke on
voting on the liquor question at our coming
election, June 27. Sister Dixon made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked the good sisters
of Spanish Fork for their hospitality. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, after
singing “Doxology” and benediction by sis-
ter Elsie Kerr.
—Eliza A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.


