WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	What a refreshing Conference that was!
The words of commendation and encour-
agement from Presidents Platte D. Lyman
and Henry W. Naisbett brought joy and
comfort to our hearts. A yellow fog en-
veloped London, and it hung in clouds
overhead, in the Clerkenwell Hall, where
the Conference was held. Some of the
missionaries lost their bearings, on dis-
mounting from the 'busses, as the fog rolled
up in high banks over the streets and side-
walks. The second day it cleared up, then
one could scarcely stand or walk; in fact
we slid along on the slimy deposit the fog
left behind. This unsafe condition pre-
vailed, until a heavy rain washed the streets
and sidewalks clean.
	It was a time of rejoicing to meet our
friends and fellow laborers from all over
the Conference, and learn how they were all
getting along, and how the work of the
Lord was prospering. Then the sweet
voice of the Spirit poured out in Priest-
hood meeting, made the four or five hours
so spent speed swiftly away.
	After the Conference closed, the new
headquarters, 97 Farleigh Road, was dedi-
cated; the prayer was offered by President
Naisbett. In our own home at last, in a
most desirable quarter of the city, and a
place where even the Queen could be prop-
erly welcomed! Was it not glorious? I was
transferred from Watford to Stratford,
only a three half penny ride from the Con-
ference house, and given a companion, be-
side my little daughter May, which pleased
me very much. After a couple of days spent
in sight-seeing, we went to our field of la-
bor. The great Exposition of 1900 was on
in Paris, and the missionaries who wished
it were granted a couple of weeks' absence
to attend it. A party was to form in Lon-
don with whom we were to go, so we
awaited notice to join them. We crossed
the English channel in the night (and such
a lot of sick people!) Landing at Dieppe
we took train for Paris, reaching there
about 9 a. m. We went directly to a
house in the Latin Quarter, which was rec-
ommended by some of our friends. The
large rooms contained two or three beds,
but they were single, with down beds and
pillows. It was such a nice place! How
I rested in that bed! The first nice one I
had slept in for months. Although the
beds were so nice we could not stay in them
long, for we must be on the go early and
late. There was the city and surroundings
to see, beside the Exposition, where we
planned to go several days. The thought
of that good bed was often with me during
those days, how I wished I could take it
with me over to London, for the English
beds are proverbially hard, with heavy blan-
kets, instead of down quilts. Besides we
found no fleas there which stuck closer to us
than a brother in England, adding so much
of discomfort to our already uninviting lot.
"See Paris and die" it has been said, but we
say, "See Paris and live to tell of its beauty
and splendor." World Expositions may
come and go, but none will ever be like the
one at Paris. Gorgeous, chaste, wonderful,
exquisite, such an one, as only the French
people know how to bring together, for
beauty of effect. We have seen Exposi-
tions both before and since then, but none
are like unto it.
	The grand buildings of the nation pic-

[Column 2]
turesquely situated on either bank of the
Seine, their national colors flying from
many points;; the little steam tugs, that
carried us from so many points to it, the
revolving side walks, never seen before, car-
rying passengers without ever stopping, to
all points of the grounds, and the illumina-
tions on the river, which made it look like
a scene in Wonderland, all were enchanting,
enthralling! This, too, was the land of
Napoleon and Josephine. Reminders of
them are everywhere. Napoleon crowning
Josephine, a bewitching, immense painting
in the Louvre, brought the story vividly to
mind. To it we returned, time and again.
On the steps of the throne, Josephine kneels,
while Napoleon places the crown upon her
head. The power that gives can take
away. He bestowed the crown upon her;
afterwards he snatched it away from her
throbbing brow, heeding not her supplicant
form, or out-stretched, trembling hands.
The world calmly looked on while that
tragedy was enacted, thinking the end justi-
fied the means. But did it? "My Josephine,
my Josephine!" is softly sung by river and
breeze; the very ground speaks her name
at every step. He died alone on St. Helena;
then, not to be feared any longer, the
French people brought back his dust, to
sleep beneath a world-famed tomb. But he
is imprisoned still, while Josephine sleeps
beneath tree and flower, in God's glad sun-
shine, where the birds sing her name and
the night winds sigh above her. Is it any
wonder, that after visiting Versailles, Notre
Dame, Napoleon's Tomb, the Arch of Tri-
umph, the Madelaine, beside the other glo-
ries of Paris, that as we saw the river illu-
mination for the last time, and surveyed
the scene from the top of a 'bus, we ex-
claimed, "the only city we ever left with
such feelings of regret."
	After this delightful change, Miss Farns-
worth and myself devoted ourselves, early
and late, to our labors in Stratford The
branch numbered about seventy saints, the
largest I had labored in. After tracting
hours (when there were no meetings to at-
tend) we visited every one of the saints,
as soon as might be, in order to become per-
sonally acquainted with them all.
	In Watford I had come in contact with
three ministers, one of whom, on looking
at the tract I presented, and seeing "Mor-
mon" on it, indulged in a triade about our
faith and people, that amounted to an on-
slaught. "You know the doctrines you are
spreading are true, do you?" he asked. "I
do." And you have come across the water
to expound them here to us?" "Yes!"
"Then if you know they are true, stay
quietly in your own house and be satisfied."
I assured him that when one was convinced
of the truth he should warn his neighbor;
that was why I was there. As he quoted
passages from the Bible he walked up and
down his hall, rolling the poor little tract
into a ball, sometimes striking it within the
palms of his hands. He asked my name,
where I lived when at home, and many
other things, at the end of each answer
striking the inoffensive tract, and looking
defiantly at me. I did not have much op-
portunity to talk, but when the interview
ended, and I was outside the gate, I stood
still, resting against it for some moments,
to gather strength to proceed; then realized
that I had had an encounter with Lucifer
(for he had talked to me through this man).
I now had a clear understanding of what

[Column 3]
he thought of me, and his fervor, for I felt
as weak as though I had been in a personal
encounter. While I was still there, the
minister opened the door he had banged
shut, whether to let out the offensive Mor-
mon odor[---]o get fresh air after the bat-
tle I did [---] know. But this I did know.
Lucifer was a dread personality, and I
feared his great power. What a master he
would be—how he would chain his ser-
vants!
	At another house, that same afternoon,
another minister took the tract from my
hand, then seeing "Mormon" upon it,
slammed the door, saying, "Go home and
take care of your wives!" Opening the
door slightly, he looked at me and discov-
ered I was a woman.
	Another minister I met at his gate; he
was just going in with a tin pail of milk in
his hand. "Will you accept of a gospel
tract to read?" and presented one to him.
"Mormon?" he asked. Being answered in
the affirmative, he said, "Have you left one
of those in my house?" "No." "Well, I
will not let you leave one there. I forbid
you!" "Will you take the responsibility?"
I asked. "Yes." "Then remember," I
said, "that I have brought the gospel tidings
to you and yours, and you have forbidden
me to leave the message at your home.
Do you take this responsibility upon your-
self?" "Yes." "Well, I must be content,
as you are the master of your own family
and home, and have taken upon y[-]urself
the responsibility of rejecting it.
LYDIA D. A[-]DER.
(To be Continued.)


