[Uncertain Possession — Chapter 4 by Beatrice R. Parsons]

Uncertain Possession CHAPTER 4
Beatrice R. Parsons Synopsis: Lorna Ashton, an orphan, marries Dr. Matthew Wire and goes to live in Westfield, Nevada. She is afraid that Matthew's relatives and friends, and even his patients, will continue to mean so much to him that he will never belong wholly to her. Soon, however, Lorna finds that she is making a place for herself in the affections of Uncle John, Nurse Hallie, and Carole, a little neighbor girl, One night she goes with her husband and Nurse Hallie to the Honson home and takes care of the older children during the birth of twins, qnd this experience impresses her so that she feels that there is much for her to do in Westfield, and that by making herself useful she may increase her own happiness. 'Honson.
Twins were born, Lorna strove valiantly to rid herself of her childish terror of being left alone. She wanted to make Matt happy. She wanted to make him a good wife. But there was so much for her to learn! He took her with him on long drives about the valley. He introduced her to his friends. She met Carole's parents, the Wilsons, who lived across the street. Anne Clayton, a pretty girl with sparkling blue eyes and shining blond hair, and Jeanne Beatty, a school teacher with brown hair and blue eyes, were friends of Matt.
They invited Lorna to shop with them, but her innate shyness compelled her to refuse, although Matt urged her lightly to accompany them. "T will, one of these days," she  A FTER the night when the promised vaguely, and saw that Anne and Jeanne considered her a little standoffish. She had also promised Matt that she would call on Margaret, but somehow she never got around to doing so.
When she and Matt met old Jim Nason in the hardware store, the old man stared at her curiously, and with his usual bluntness, he exclaimed: "Pretty gal!
Hope she's got brains as well as looks."
After he had gone, Lorna was flushed and a little angry. Her voice was crisp. "He's quite a character, Matt! I certainly don't like him." But Matt said gently: "Jim's my oldest friend. He used to carry me | pickaback when I was two. He took me fishing when I was six." Lorna's laughter interrupted him. "T didn't think he was a human being! Well, if he was kind to you when you were little, he's certainly outgrown it!"
Matt laughed, too, but kept denying that Jim was as bad as he seemed on the surface. But Lorna squashed all his arguments, by declaring that Jim couldn't have much milk-of-human-kindness, since he wouldn't give that hospital to the valley. "A statue of himself in the mid-— dle of Sky Valley," she cried scathingly. "Who would care what happened to such a grouchy, ugly old man?" "I would;" said Matt firmly, opening the door, and Lorna was UNCERTAIN POSSESSION curiously surprised that he meant it. She brushed the matter aside and said she wanted to buy some blue thread. She was going to dress a doll for Matt's little polio patient, Patty Hamilton. She was going to use the scraps of blue net from her party frock. The frock still hung carefully in her clothes closet, waiting the night when she and Matt woud go dancing. But, she sighed, remembering how little time Matt ever had to himself. The sign on his office said: "10 to 5."
More often than not he worked from eight to nine, or even midnight.
Many times, Lorna's dinner, neatly arranged in her shining little pots and pans, grew cold and unappetizing on her gas range.
Then her gray eyes would meet Matt's accusingly when he came in. NCE she said _ exasperatedly, "Matt, I'm sure I'll never get used to it! Dinner's spoiled. I did want it to be nice." She put a pink bowl of shriveled potatoes on the table, and exclaimed, "Matt, if you.
Were at Doctors' Center you'd always be home on time!" He sighed tiredly as he washed his hands. "I had to drive over to John Barker's. He crushed his foot with his plow." She was immediately sympathetic. "Matt, is he going to be all right?" "a He patted her arm as he sat down. "Darling, you've got to get over the idea that everyone who gets hurt is going to die!" His voice was teasing, and reassuring at the same time. "He'll be laid up for a while. And Helen will be 265 scolding and impatient about it, probably feel that she's terribly hard-done-by! But John will be all right.
Hallie can drop over and dress his foot." He stopped talking suddenly, as she began filling his plate, then jumped up, saying: "I forgot! 'There's something I must tell Uncle John." "Matt!" Her cry stopped him with his hand on the doorknob. She had been so happy to have him home. Now he was running off again. Her disappointment showed in her face. But she set his plate in the oven, as she saw him looking at her, and said, "'All right, darling. I guess I'll never really make a good doctor's wife." His dark eyes caressed her, though he did not touch her. His voice was gentle, tender. ""There's nothing so very special in being a doctor's wife, Lorna. But there is something very special about being understanding, kind. You're growing that way, my dear.
Just what this doctor ordered! He loves you very much. It's nice for him to come home and find you here." Her heart was stirred so that she wanted to go to him, put her arms about him, hold him close. Yet she seemed to know that this was not the time. She laughed teasingly. "You're sure the doctor isn't sorry that he doesn't find a Westfield girl waiting for him. Anne, perhaps? Or Jeanne, maybe? Or..." with an intenseness she didn't realize, "or Margaret?" "They're my friends. I think a lot of them. But I love you. And you're getting to be a wonderful person. You're learning not to neglect my telephone calls, or mes- 266 sages from my patients. You're learning." He didn't finish. His eyes had — caught sight of the two little china kittens on her dressing table, through the opened door, and his mouth closed firmly. It became a little stern as he opened the door, promising to come back in a few minutes. J] ORNA forgot her little pots and _ pans as she stared at the kittens. She knew what Matt had not said. 'So far, she hadn't been able to bring herself to give Carole the kittens. Her face was set. She needed her cats. 'Times like this, she needed them so badly.
They comforted her, reminding her that she couldn't be thoroughly lonely and alone while she had them.
While she waited for Matt to come back, she picked up the doll dress she was making for Patty Hamilton's doll. When Matt came back, his shoulders were damp with the first, sudden drops of desert rain.
Lorna had never known that a storm could come up so suddenly.
Just a moment before she had sat down to sew, the thunderheads in the west had seemed distant and far away. But now, as Matt opened the door, they were overhead, and splashing rain over the garden in a burst of water that amazed her. As they ate their late dinner, she watched the storm, and_ teased Matt a little. "When we came here, darling, you said it seldom rained. You sounded like the Chamber of Commerce, telling me that cabin and motel owners always gave the tour- *  ists back their money when the sun didn't shine, or it rained. So " she smiled teasingly, "they'll return all rents tonight."
Matt laughed and helped her wash up the dishes while the rain thundered and pounded at the roof, and beat the swaying fronds of tamarisk low.
Against the white picket fence.
Flashes of lightning made Lorna wince, and she was glad Matt was there beside her. "T'm scared, Matt," she whispered, as she leaned in the circle of his arm, watching the storm.
Though she could not see the river, nor the steel bridge across it, which she had wondered about when they first came, she was sure the river must be a rushing torrent and all travelers glad of the firm, strong bridge.
Matt was worried about some of the farms along the river's edge.
Once he spoke uncertainly about Jim Nason.
Lorna frowned. "Quit worrying about that awful old man, Matt. He's lived by the river all his life." "But he hasn't been past eighty all his life," objected Matt a little curtly. "And goodness knows what he'll take into his mind to do during this storm. If he goes down to the river to fix his sand bags, he might " The worry in his eyes deepened, and almost before Lorna realized it, he was getting into his long, tan raincoat, finding his hat, shading it over his eyes. "Matt!" She was shocked to know he was going to leave her, going out into a terrible storm to look after an unimportant old man. "Matt, be sensible! Of course the (Continued on page 275) A Tew river is dangerous in a storm like this. And he's lived by it all his life. He can look out for himself."

"But he's old, and maybe confused. I saw the worry in his eyes when he looked toward the river." Matt was putting on his boots. "I'll just make sure he's safe, and come right back."

But when he opened the door, the storm struck him like a blow, and Lorna knew he might not be able to get back for hours. The rain was falling in torrents now, and the wind was howling around the cabin.

She stood at the window, trying to peer through the darkness and rain, but she could see nothing. She went back to her sewing, but her hands shook so that she had to put it down.

Hours passed. The storm grew worse instead of better. Around midnight, she heard someone at the door, and ran to open it.

It was Matt, soaked to the skin, supporting old Jim Nason, who was wet and exhausted.

"Found him trying to get his sand bags in place," Matt said, as they helped the old man to a chair by the fire. "The river's rising fast. His whole place may go."

"I've lived there forty years," Jim said, his voice shaking. "Forty years, and never lost it to the water yet."

Lorna brought him hot coffee and dry clothes of Matt's. As she tucked a blanket around him, she felt ashamed of herself. She had called him unimportant, when actually he was a brave old man, trying to save what little he had.

"You'll stay here tonight," she told him firmly. "In the morning we'll see what can be done."

But in the morning, when they went to look, Jim Nason's little place by the river was gone. The water had taken his house, his chicken coop, everything.

He stood looking at the muddy waste where his home had been, and Lorna saw his shoulders sag.

"Forty years," he said again, and there were tears in his old eyes.

"You'll stay with us," Matt said quietly. "Won't he, Lorna?"

She looked at the old man, standing so straight in spite of his sorrow, and her heart went out to him.

"Of course," she said, and meant it. "We'd like to have you."

And somehow, as they walked back to the cabin together, Lorna felt that she had learned something important about what really mattered in life.