[Vol39 | April 1952 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: 219 Father Was a Good Provider | Author: Inez Bagnell]
Father for mercy to them who were nailing him to the cross: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." They were beholding him when he looked down, with a tenderness and love that could never die, at her who was his mother. They, no doubt, listened to catch the words he spoke to her. Words which would reveal his anxiety for her future security. I, 7 To the grief-stricken mother he said: "Woman, behold thy son." And to John the beloved they heard him give this gentle command "Behold thy mother!" John immediately grasped the meaning of the words—that he was to care for the mother—for the record states: "And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home." I Following the departure of the mother with John, the other women continued at the place of crucifixion until they heard from the lips of their Lord the final cry of victory: "It is finished' and the last mortal prayer to his God: "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." Notwithstanding the heartbreaking experience of witnessing the crucifixion and death of the Master, the women could not depart from following after him, and_ they watched from a short distance the burial of the body in the sepulchre of Joseph of Arimathaea. N the third day following the entombment they were the first to discover the empty grave. 'They -had gone early in the day to the tomb prepared to anoint the body RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1952 with spices and ointment they had prepared before at the time of the burial. As they approached the _tomb they were met by an angel who announced to them the glorious fact of the resurrection. "Fear not ye:" he said unto them, "for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified, he is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay." After looking into the deserted sepulchre, the women were then commissioned by the angel to be the first to carry the message of the resurrection to the disciples: "And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him." Mary of Magdala was so bowed down with sorrow upon seeing the empty grave that she did not hear all that the angel had said. She hastened to the disciples ''And saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him." I Having reported that the body had been removed, she returned to the garden of his resting place. Here she was presently to be the most favored of women; she was to behold the immortal resurrected Son of God, her Lord and Master. As she looked again into the sepulchre where she had but a few hours since beheld the lifeless body, she saw "two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou?" And the woman answered: "Because they have taken away my THE WOMEN AND THE RESURRECTION Lord, and I know not where they have laid him." Then, turning back away from the sepulchre, there stood before her one whom she did not: immediately recognize. It was the Lord whom she had been seeking. It was he who had risen from the dead. "Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away." Jesus then spoke to her but one word—and the tenderness with which the word was uttered revealed to her his identity. He walked and talked with two of his disciples during a day's journey to Emmaus not long after the resurrection, but his identity was withheld from them. But only one word was spoken to the woman and she no longer supposed him to be the gardener. "Jesus saith unto her, Mary." The burden of a saddened heart was lifted when she heard her name thus spoken. Many times before she had thus been addressed by her Lord, but never before had her name been spoken by immortal lips. It was a woman's name, not the name of a disciple, that the resurrected Son of God first uttered. To him Mary was the most favored of names. It was not only the name of the first woman to whom Christ spoke as the risen Lord. It was the name of the sainted mother who had given him birth; it was the name of the sister of Lazarus who had seen him re- 215 store life to her brother; it was the name of the mother of James and John; and many others whom he loved no doubt bore the name which he had spoken to the woman in the garden near the place of his burial. As he uttered the name, Mary beheld that it was Jesus who had spoken, and she cried out to him: '""Rabboni; which is to say, Master." She was the first to behold the resurrected personage and she was the first to hear his voice, but she was not to be the first to touch him. "Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father." As the women had been the first commissioned by the angel to announce the resurrection of Jesus to the disciples, so also it was a woman who was sent by the Lord himself to proclaim his ascension to his Father; "but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God." He later-was seen by other chosen women before he appeared to the Priesthood. As these other women were returning from the deserted sepulchre "Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him." I Mary Magdalene had been the first to look upon the Redeemer in his resurrected state, but her eager desire to embrace him was not to be fulfilled. It was the other women who later saw him who were granted the honored privilege of touching the body of the first soul who had conquered death and the grave. 216 HE memorable episodes of the early hours following upon his resurrection evidence the gracious and considerate appreciation displayed by the Lord for the steadfast devotion and enduring love of the women. Jesus easily restrained any impulse which may have beset him to appear first to his disciples as a resurrected personage, rather than to the women. Manifesting himself first to the women was a reward which they had well earned and of which they were indeed worthy. He loved the brethren of the Priesthood, but the faithful women were accorded priority in the beholding of the risen Redeemer. Not she with trait'rous kiss her Savior stung, Not she denied him with unholy tongue; She, while apostles shrank, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave. —Barrett Christ's tribute to woman when he revealed himself to the women before he appeared to his chosen disciples, was second only to that of the Father when he selected a mortal woman to be the mother of his Only Begotten Son. No greater tributes than these have ever been paid to womankind. Women who willingly give birth to the children of men do not quesRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1952 tion the fact of redemption from the dead. As they suffer the pain and processes of the creation and pulsations of the embryonic life within them, there comes to them a certain conviction that redemption from death can be no more miraculous than birth. 'They have an inward witness of the scientific I truth that the matter and elements of life are indestructible. The tender love of a mother implants within her heart the certain knowledge that the life of her child whose body has been lowered into the grave has not been annihilated, and that the physical element' of the body which was formed within her may again be brought together and become a resurrected soul. 'This sublime faith of mothers in the fact of the resurrection shall not go unrewarded, and just as surely as the women whom Christ loved beheld his body which had risen from the tomb, so will all mothers at an appointed time look upon their children, who have been

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (2 segments, 6,961 chars) ===

--- Ad from: A New