[Easter on the Hills by Alice Whitson Norton]

Eastern States Mission with us while we were there. Individual participation sometime during each program is a "must," even though there may be some repetition. Recitations learned in school, Sunday School, Primary, or taught at home, with songs from various members of the family, give development. Douglas is learning to play the violin, so his contribution helps this phase of the hour, while Clarke and Kimball contribute vocal duets. At one time, when the children were called upon to give the names of the first few books of 'The Book of Mormon, Clarke's excited reply evoked some laughter when he said: "I know! I know! First Nephi, Second Nephi, Elder Roy W. Doxey, his wife, Alberta O. Doxey, and their children (left to right): Douglas, Cheryl, Kimball, and Clarke Benson. 
Willard Luce
MUSIC FOR THE FAMILY HOUR
The Doxey children, left to right: Douglas, Clarke Benson, Cheryl, and Kimball Third Nephi, and Baptism by Emergency!" "Freshments"—as the little ones call them—are a very important part of the Family Hour. 'These may consist of dinner dessert held over, or, if mother has had a very busy day—a box of raisins or nuts serves the purpose.
Homemade candy, popcorn, or cookies are delicacies always welcomed.
Popcorn balls and apples are never failing favorites with the children. The Family Hour in summertime calls for outdoor activities.
They take the form of short trips to nearby points of historical interest, picnics in the city parks, beautiful.
Scenic drives in the mountains, and swimming parties.
Church history, songs, and rounds are learned, and each child has opportunity to recite favorite verses as we drive along.
Canyon picnics have given our scout-age son a chance to demonstrate his recently-acquired knowlelge of scout lore. New games are learned. One Family Hour, still in the planning stage, is even now anticipated. Our plans are to start out very early some lovely spring morning for the ""This Is the Place Monument."
Here each child old enough will treat some phase of the pioneer story.
Daddy will give an especially prepared talk, and then, in the beautiful early morning sunshine, each member of the family will have opportunity to bear his testimony, down to three-yearold Cheryl, who quite often says, "Let's talk about the gospel." | (Continued on page 279)