			CONTINUED.
	Besides all this moral evil attendant on a
habit of exaggeration, it is a great mistake
to suppose that it makes a person more
agreeable, or that it adds to the importance
of her statements. The value of a person's
words is determined by her habitual use of
them. "I like it much," "It is well done,"
will mean as much in some mouths, as "I
am infinitely delighted with it," "Tis the
most exquisite thing you ever saw," will in
others. Such large abatements are necessa-
rily made for the statements of these roman-
cere, that they really gain nothing in the
end, but find it difficult sometimes to obtain
credence for so much as is really true;
whereas, a person who is habitually sober
and discriminating in the use of language,
will not only inspire confidence, but be able
to produce a great effect by the occasional
use of a superlative. Fidelity and exactness
are indispensable in a narrative, and the
habit of exaggerating destroys the power of
accurate observation and recollection, which
would render the story truly interesting. If,
instead of trying to embellish her account
with the fruits of her imagination, a young
lady possessed the power of seizing upon
the points best worth describing, and could
give an exact account of them, she would be
far more entertaining than any exaggeration
could make her; for there is no romance like
that of real life; and no imaginings of an
inexperienced girl can equal in piquancy
the scenes and characters that are every day
presented to our view. Extravagant expres-
sions are sometimes resorted to, in order to
atone for deficiencies of memory and obser-
vation; but they will never hide such de-
fects; and, an habitual use of them lowers
the tone of the mind, and leads to other de-
viations from the simplicity of truth and
nature.
	Another way of falsifying a narrative, is
by taking for granted what you do not know,
and speaking of it as if you did. This jump-
ing at conclusions is a fruitful source of false
reports, and does great mischief in the
world. Let no one imagine that she is walk-
ing conscientiously, who is not in the habit of
discriminating nicely between what she
knows to be fact, and what she only supposes
to be such. Some girls, without any wish
to exaggerate, contract a habit of using cer-
tain forcible expressions on all occasions,
great and small, and consequently make
some very absurd speeches. A young lady,
for example, told us she was "passionately
fond of embroidery." She had used the
word in the sense of very, till she had lost all
perception of its true meaning.
	The frequent use of some favorite word or
phrase is a common defect in conversation,
and can only be guarded against by asking
your friends to point it out to you, when-
ever they observe such a habit; for your own
ear, having become accustomed to it, may
not detect it. Some persons apply the epi-
thet "glorious," or "splendid," to all sorts
of objects indiscriminately, from a gorgeous
sunset to a good dinner.
	A young lady once tried to describe a pic-
nic party to us, in the following terms:
"There were ten of us, four on horseback,
and the rest in carriages; we set off at a
glorious rate, and had a splendid time in get-
ting there; I rode the most elegant, perfect
creature you ever saw, and capered along
gloriously. When we got there, we all walked
about in the woods, and gathered the most
splendid flowers, and dined under the shade
of a glorious old elm tree. We had our cold

[Second column]
provisions spread out on the grass, and
everything was elegant. We had glorious ap-
petites, too, and the collation was splendid,
and put us all in fine spirits. Some of the 
gentlemen sung funny songs, but one sung
such a dreadful sentimental one, and to such
a horrid, doleful tune, it made us all miser-
able. So, then, we broke up, and had a
splendid time packing away the things. Such
fun! I almost killed myself with laughing,
and we broke half the things. But the ride
home was the most splendid of all; we arriv-
ed at the top of the hill just in time to see
the msot glorious sunset I ever beheld."
	In this short account, the word "glorious"
is used five times, and in all but the last it
is grossly misapplied; the same is the case
with the word "splendid," except that it is
not once used properly. "Elegant," too, is
equally inapplicable to horses and cold pro-
visions. Yet this style of conversing is so
common, that it hardly arrests the attention
of many who, nevertheless, would condemn
it at once if they thought at all about it.
