A MAN'S OPINION.

	Philip Stanhope, Earl of Chesterfield, was
said to be a sincere man when he had no
special need to be otherwise. It may be a
valuable contribution to the woman’s rights
controversy of the present hour to show
what this gallant and experienced person
really thought of women. Writing to his
son, in the fullest sincerity and with the
most genuine and honest desire to instruct,
this is what he says: “Women are only chil-
dren of a larger growth; they have an enter-
taining tattle, and sometimes wit, but for
solid, reasoning good sense, I never in my
life knew one that had it, or who reasoned
or acted consequentially for four and twenty
hours together. Some little passion or hu-
mor always breaks in upon their best resolu-
tions. Their beauty neglected or controvert-
ed, their age increased, or their supposed
understanding depreciated, instantly kindles
their little passions and overturns any sys-
tem of consequential conduct that, in their
most reasonable moments, they might have
been capable of forming. A man of sense
only trifles with them, plays with them, hu-
mors and flatters them, as he does with a
sprightly, forward child; but he neither con-
sults them about nor trusts them with seri-
ous matters, though he often makes them
believe that he does both, which is the thing
in the world that they are proud of, for they
love mightily to be dabbling in business
(which, by the way, they always spoil), and
being justly distrustful that men in general
look upon them in a trifling light, they al-
most adore that man who talks more seri-


ously to them, and who seems to consult and
trust them. I say who seems—for weak
men really do, but wise ones only seem to
do it."
	Now with all this great man's sincerity in
his belief of woman, (and we would not in-
dicate that we doubt it), we will venture
that the mother of the young man to whom
that wise explanation was sent—or if not
her, some other woman—could wheedle him,
with all his wisdom, into her own ways, and
make him believe—yes, "believe,"—what-
ever she chose. Such a man is the very one
to be the victim of a woman's influence.


