TRUE INDEPENDENCE.

	At the late fall conference, one of the elders,
while instructing the people, said, in substance,
that the fact that his own family, or members
of the families of other prominent men in the
church, were extravagant, was no excuse for
other people's being the same. The truth of this
statement is obvious.
	Because wives and daughters of the ser-
vants of God may, and do, practically, refuse to
receive the teachings of those having divine
authority to teach, is no reason why others
should follow their foolish examples. Yet it is
astonishing that so many persons evince so lit-
tle individuality in regard to these things.
"Why," says one lady, "do such and such ones,
having so good and wise a father, dress as they
do, if there is evil in it? At any rate, it is no
worse for me to do so than it is for them, and so
long as they are permitted to dress fashionably,
I intend to make as good an appearance as they
can." What a want of independent feeling is
here manifested! Our Saviour might as consis-
tently have rebelled against His Father because
Satan did so.
	Now, that which is required of the daughters
of Zion in regard to their dress, is, simply, that
they cultivate good taste and judgment. It is
the height of absurdity for one person to pur-
chase an article of clothing because some one
else has something the same, or that cost as
much. Refined taste will enable any lady


to avoid such a mistake. And to discriminate
nicely between what is becoming to her, and
that which is not. No lady who has learned
this lesson well, can ever imagine that disfig-
urement of her person, in any way, will add to
her comeliness, no matter who she is or what
her position in life. Nor will a woman of good
judgment spend more on apparel than is requi-
site for comfort and neatness, however extrava-
gant her neighbors may be.
	The attempt to follow every new fashion that
is introduced, without being able to judge un-
derstandingly whether it is an improvement on
the old or otherwise, shows a great lack of in-
telligent, womanly freedom and self-reliance;
and betrays a weakness of mind from which
the votary herself would shrink in disgust did
it appear in any other form than that of the
love for dress and idle display.
	But to adorn the person tastefully and con-
veniently, without scrupulously bowing to the
whims of others, portrays the exercise of care-
ful thought, and that true independence of
character which ennobles and dignifies woman
in the eyes of all sensible beholders.
	If the women of the Latter-day Saints will
learn and practice wisdom, by and by the posi-
tion of a few prominent ones, whose present
course seems to lead away the hearts of many
after the vain things of earth, will be changed
They will see the folly of their ways, and seek
to amend them, or they will be without influ-
ence in the midst of the people.


