PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LIBERALITY consists less in giving pro-
fusely than in giving judiciously.
	ALL men would be masters of each other,
and no man is lord of himself.
	WITHOUT earnest convictions no great or
sound literature is conceivable.
	TAKE away ambition and vanity and where
will be your heroes and patriots?
	ONE hundred old ladies, from the Graham
Institute and Church Charity Foundation,
of Brooklyn, went on a free excursion to
Canarsie the other day, under the auspices
of the Fresh Air Committee.
	EVERY good man is not born with the gift
of speech. There are deep-minded, devout
and earnest Christians who can do every-
thing else better than to address a mixed
assembly. They are constitutionally timid
and slow-tongued; there is pure good within
them, but they cannot coin it readily into
current words.
	NO GIRL should be indifferent to her per-
sonal appearance. God meant woman to be
attractive, and it is one of her duties to car-
ry out this design. But that dress is to be all
is more than we can believe. Just because
we love to see girls look well, as well as to
live to some purpose, we would urge them
on such a course of reading and study as
will confer qualities which no modiste can
supply.
	THERE are a thousand reasons why cheer-
fulness and good humor are preferable to
peevishness and discontent. A few of them
are as follows: The former qualities make
life longer, and more enjoyable while it lasts;
they enable their possessor to find more good
in the world, and to realize a better appre-
ciation of it all; to discriminate more readily
and clearly between right and wrong; to
offer compassion instead of contempt, char-
ity rather than reproach, love instead of hate.
	A WELL-KNOWN author once wrote a pretty
essay on the power of education to beautify,
that it absolutely chiseled the features; that
he had seen many a clumsy nose and pair of
thick lips so modified by thought awakened
and active sentiment, as to be unrecogniz-
able. And he put it on that ground that we
so often see people, homely and unattractive
in youth, bloom in middle life into a soft-
ened Indian Summer of good looks and
mellow tones.


A LITTLE girl three years old, in Provi-
dence, R. I., lately fell from one of the  up-
per windows of a two-story house, striking
head first on some stone steps beneath. She
was uninjured. “Providence” has truly
wonderful ways.


