	“OLD PROBABILITIES,” Gen. A. J, Myer,
chief of the Government Signal Service Bu-
reau, has gone to Europe. As his wife lately
inherited a round million of dollars by the
death of her mother, it seems he could well
afford to go.
	THE BUSINESS of the Atlantic Cable is re-
ported to have largely increased since the
beginning of the money panic in New York.
The daily receipts are estimated at $27,000.
So it is, one system loses while another
gains, the world over.
	THE INHABITANTS of Memphis, Tenn.,
have been so stricken with an epidemic that
calls for aid for that city have been neces-
sarily made. Accounts of their sufferings
have been given in the daily papers which
are of a heart-sickening character.
	ANNA DICKENSON is said to have walked
with Prof. Hayden and party to the summit
of Long’s Peak, in Denver, Colorado, recent-
ly, making the ascent in three hours and
ten minutes. She got her name up for once,
if she did have to walk and carry it herself.
	AN AUTHOR in the dramatic line has said,
“There’s no such word as fail;" but the
poor, lone man, who had proposed marriage
to sixty different girls, and got the mitten
every time, used to say he knew there was.
However, he is married at last; so, perhaps,
there isn’t after all.
	CHARLES SPRAGUE, the venerable Boston
poet, author of “The Family Meeting,” and
other beautiful specimens of poetic genius,
welcomed his eighty-third birthday on the
sixteenth of September. He has the best
wishes of thousands for another seventeen
years, which will finish his one hundred.
	THE GREATEST difficulties with which
most young people are perplexed, when
starting out in life, are that they want to be
considered wise without the trouble of learn-
ing wisdom, good without having proved
[Column 2]
themselves so; and would like to become
suddenly rich without waiting to earn riches.
	IT IS proposed in Boston to organize a
“Workingwoman’s Mutual Benefit Associa-
tion,” the object of which will be the pro-
viding of funds for the aid of any member
in extreme need, and in case of death, to
provide a respectable burial. The proposi-
tion is a worthy one and deserves support.
	IN PRUSSIA, a Roman Catholic priest re-
cently preached that marriage among the
Protestants was nothing more than concu-
binage, for which he was sent to prison. He
should have come to America if he wanted
to berate the social systems of other denom-
inations than his own, without having any
attention paid to it.
	A NEW York man, who has been an in-
veterate smoker for years, was lately cured
of the habit, suddenly and effectually, by
knocking the embers from his cigar into a
keg of blasting powder. Others, who have
acquired the habit, and may be unable to
overcome it of themselves, might learn from
this an infallible remedy.
	THE AUTHORITIES of St. Louis are striv-
ing to convince the American public that
they have discovered the panacea for all the
evils growing out of prostitution, and that
their remedy for it should be universally
adopted. Let them first cleanse and make
pure their own city, and others will be ready
to learn of them without being urged to do
so. 
	A STRANGE and unnatural accident is re-
ported to have happened a young lady in
one of the Eastern cities; her hair being
caught and wound up in some machinery,
the entire scalp was torn off, from the eyes
to the back of the neck. And this was done
instantaneously, causing neither bleeding
nor suffering. She will have a wonderful
story to relate to her grandchildren in years
to come.
	A YOUNG lady wishes to know if direct
danger is not to be apprehended from a
notable bachelor’s having become a member
of the “High Council;” whether his “coun-
sel” to young men will not likely be of a
disparaging nature in relation to hymenial
matters. We think not. Distasteful epithets
concerning such things, are more liable to
originate with disappointed husbands than
with old bachelors.
	A TERRIBLE example has been made of
Captain Jack and three of his Modoc asso-
ciates, Schonchin, Boston Charley, and
Black Jim. They were hanged at Fort Kla-
math on the morning of the third inst., in
the presence of more than five hundred Kla-
math Indians, their own wives and children
being among the witnesses! Such are the
decrees of justice on Indian murderers.
	MISS RYE, a lady of superior abilities, is
spending her time and means in emigrating
poor working women, who are out of em-
ployment, from England to America, and se-
curing homes and work for them. She late-
ly sailed from Liverpool, having fifty-five of
those women in charge, for whom she has
homes and employment secured. Her labors
are laudable, and her name and benefactions
will be remembered throughout the genera-
tions of those who are receiving blessings
through her womanly exertions.
[Column 3]
	A STRANGE story is told of a death which
recently occurred in India. A fisherman put
the head of a fish in his mouth to bite it, as
it had proved troublesome in the matter of
wriggling. The fish wriggled into his mouth
and down into his throat, where it firmly
stuck. And not until the unfortunate fisher-
man had been taken to the hospital was the
fish removed in small pieces, directly after
which the man died. This is another proof
of the old truism, that it is best to go through
life with your mouth shut and your eyes
open; and it also shows that cruelty is some-
times wondrously rewarded.
	A GENTLEMAN of this city,  of refined
taste and superior understanding, says that
the worth of woman is by no means appre-
ciated by the great masses. In his office
where crowds of people often gather, he says,
it could scarcely be believed what an influ-
ence the presence of one lady will exert over
a throng of men. It seems to lead them from
their natural rough, careless manners, and
awaken softened, delicate sentiments,which,
without the presence of the gentle, supreme
power she exercises over them, would nev-
er appear. Man, he thinks, is nothing of
worth without woman. We propose a vote
of thanks to the gallant gentleman for his
liberal opinions, so freely offered.
	THAT EXTRAVAGANCE among Americans
is no late thing, may be realized by those
who read the following clipping: “In one
of the New York hotels is a Swiss waiter,
who once saw better days and kept a restaur-
ant in London. A guest lately happened to
hear him arguing with an American com-
rade on the relative merits of democracy in
Switzerland and in the United States. The
Helvetian went in for the superiority of his
own country, and insisted that there were
blots upon the fame of the American Revo-
lution which did not sully the fair name of
Switzerland. The guest, becoming curious,
intruded so far into the controversy as to ask
for some instance of this, whereupon the
Switzer assured him, in all sober earnest-
ness, that the spilling of the tea in Boston
harbor was a wilful waste of good substance,
whereof no Swiss never could have been
guilty.”
	THE “RURAL New Yorker” says: “It has
often been noticed that a farm which has
been given up in disgust by its owner, and
sold for a trifle on account of the light soil
composing it, after passing into the hands
of a man who has learned to use brain work
as well as manual labor in his calling, has,
in the course of two or three years, entirely
changed in appearance, both with respect
to the soil itself and the crops borne on it.”
The same fact is also noticeable in matters
of graver importance. Children who have
been thought to possess very inferior minds,
have, under favorable changes of guardian-
ship and influences, brightened up and
astonished former acquaintances by display-
ing real intelligence, and, in many instances,
superior genius. These different results are
occasioned by the opposites in treatment.
some tutors, like some farmers, expect to
gather largely where ingredients are already
insufficient, instead of affording abundant
supplies of material which is calculated to
enrich rather than impoverish the soil of
the earth or the mind of a child.


