THE SEX	

	THAT girls spell better than boys the an-
nual spelling matches at Washington prove. 
In some of the schools the perfect spellers
among the boys were last year two to four 
among the girls.
	A POOR servant-girl, living in Decatur,
Ill., has labored and saved for years, that
she might send money to Germany, to bring
over her father, mother, and five brothers
and sisters. At last they received a sufficient 
sum, all embarked on the fated steamer "At-
lantic," and all were lost.
	IN Mexico, Senorita Lozana recently pre-
sented herself for examination for a vacant
professorship, in the college of St. Catherine, 
and got it, over six male competitors.
	THE first grass widow was Mrs. Nebu-
chadnezzar, an ancient Queen of Babylon.
	A YOUNG lady, who does not manage her
h's with much skill, wants to know if there
is a "he" in love. There is generally.
	LOVELACE, in "Clarissa Harlowe," lays it
down as a rule that, to study the character of 
woman, you should "first find out what 
books she reads."	
	A GIRL in Indianapolis, who has $200,000,
advertises for sealed prposals for marriage. 
The postmaster has decided to charge her
double price for her box, as  it keeps one
clerk half of his time filling it up with pink-
tinted envelopes, and the whole office is
scented with musk and bergamot, like a per-
fumer's shop.


PRESIDENT GRANT refused to loan the
Reserve Fund of $44,000,000 to the Wall
street bankers, because it would be illegal.
His view of the matter is a praiseworthy
one.


STATISTICS SHOW that there are thirteen
thousand children in Wisconsin who do not
attend school this year. There is an average
of nineteen thousand in Utah who do attend
school.


THE POLAR bear does not hug like other
bears, but snaps and bites instead. Some-
times we meet with savage appearing hus-
bands, who, we imagine, have a look of the
Arctic region about them.


AMONG THE curiosities at the late Territo-
rial Fair, one of the most wonder-exciting,
to some of the young people, was a trio of
Chinese ladies, with their odd costumes and
odder chattering, one afternoon.


IN PHILADELPHIA, it has become the
fashion to present friends with boxes of nice-
ly cut flowers instead of bouquets. The la-
dies greatly prefer this method, and the
gentlemen are too polite to object.


Woman's Exponent.
