PRAISE CHILDREN.

	There is an old superstition that praise is
too good a thing to be given to children;
that it is too rich for their mental and moral
digestion. Some parents are so afraid that a
child will grow proud that they never praise
him, and this course is often disastrous. It
is apt to produce either too much self-asser-
tion—for self-assertion is a legitimate out-
growth of the withholding of commendation
to which one is entitled—or to engender a
self-distrust, of melancholy hopelessness of
disposition. Praise is sunshine to a child,
and there is no child that does not need it.
It is the high reward of one's struggle to do
right. Thomas Hughes says that you never
can get a man's best out of him without
praise. You certainly can never get a child's
best out of him without praise. Many a sen-
sitive child, we believe, dies of hunger for
kind commendation. Many a child, starving
for the praise that a parent should give, runs
off eagerly after the designing flattery of
others. To withhold praise, where it is due,
is dishonest, and, in the case of a child,
such a course often leaves a stinging sense
of injustice Motives of common justice, as
well as regard for the future of the child,
should influence the parent to give generous
praise for all that it deserves. Of course
there is a difference in the constitution of
children. Some cannot bear so much praise
as others, and some need a great deal. It
should never be indiscriminate. We remem-
ber a wonderful woman who taught school
in one village until she had educated a part
of three generations. She was one of the
most successful of teachers. But her success
lay in her gift of praising with discrimina-
tion. A bad boy who was a good scholar got
praises for his brilliancy, sandwiched be-
tween her abomination for his bad behavior,
and so was won to a better life; and we re-
call a good girl who had no gift of learning
rapidly, but was saved from utter despair by
the praise she got from her untiring industry.
Into the discouraged hearts of the children
the praise of the teacher came like sunlight.
And the virtues, like other fruits, can only
ripen in the sunshine.—Rev. E. Eggleston.


