A WOMAN OF HONOR.

	A woman of honor and purity! What a
beautiful title that is! Who would not
rather have it than any that kings can be-
stow? It is worth more than all the gold
and silver in the whole earth. She who
merits it wears a jewel within her soul, and
needs none upon her bosom. Her word is as
good as a bond. If there was no law in the
land, you might deal just as safely with her.
To take unfair advantage is not in her; to
clothe her speech so that she may lead oth-
ers to suppose she means something that she
does not, even while they cannot prove that
it is not so, would be impossible to her frank
nature. Her speeches are never riddles; she
looks you in the eye, and says straight out
the things she has to say; acting towards
others as she would have them act toward
her. The maiden of honor is always respected.
She makes a good sister and a good wife.
	Young ladies let us strive to be honorable
before our Heavenly Father, and before all
mankind. There is honor in pursuing the
line of Retrenchment which has been mark-
ed out for us with so much wisdom; in gain-
ing and giving all the instruction we can,
for our own sakes, and for the sake of God's
Kingdom. Instead of pulling each other
down, let us try to strengthen and bless
each other, and God will help us in our ef-
forts. If we have faith in our hearts when
we want anything, we will ask the Lord for
it, and if we ask not amiss, He will be sure
to grant the blessing. Our duty to our pa-
rents should never be forgotten; if they are
sick, the gentlest, kindest care that we can
bestow upon them is not too much, or more
than they would do for us.
	To be women of honor, we must strive,
not only to be truthful and honest in all re-
spects, but lady-like and amiable also.
To be choice of the words we utter and the
manners we assume, are duties which we
owe, not alone to ourselves but to our fellow-
creatures as well. For making ourselves
agreeable is adding to the comfort of those
around us.			MRS. MAY TOUT.


THE BRAIN.—One of the most inconceiv-
able things in the nature of the brain is that
the organ of sensation should itself be in-
sensible. To cut the brain gives no pain, yet
in the brain alone resides the power of feel-
ing pain in any part of the body. If the
nerve which leads from it to the injured
part be divided, it becomes instantly uncon-
scious of suffering. It is only by communi-
cation with the brain that any kind of sen-
sation is produced, yet the organ itself is in-
sensible. But there is a circumstance more
wonderful still; the brain itself may be re-
moved—may be cut away down the corpus
callosin—without destroying life. The ani-
mal lives and performs all its functions which
are necessary to simple vitality, but no long-
er having a mind, it cannot think or feel.
It requires that the food should be pushed
into the stomach; once there, it is digested,
and the animal will grow fat.


