OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMEMT. 
			
				For the EXPONENT  
	EXTINCTION OF RACES.
	Among the more recent results of scien-
tific investigation, are the unmistakable evi-
dences of the existence of men upon this
Continent from the most remote ages, and
of the presence of large settled popula-
tions in distant and also in comparatively
recent times. They were the "occupants of
the then fertile but now arid plains of the
Colorado;" of "islands that existed along
the Pacifi coast," long before the elevation
of the coast itself by which the sea was
shut out and California made habitable;
when the valleys of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin were drained of the waters of
the ocean, large populations came in and
"took possession of the land, leaving their
remains with those of animals long since ex-
tinct." Scientific research proves, in fact,
that "the man of the Florida coral period
existed long anterior to the Pharoahs, prob-
ably long before the land they ruled over
existed." The question asked cannot be
answered so as to satisfy the requirements
of science: "Where did the ancient races
of America come from; and where are they
gone?" With the discoveries made, comes
the unwelcome inference that in the exter-
mination of these primal races there is a
foreshadowing of the ultimate extinction of
the white races now in possession of the
land. In an essay, read recently before the
National Teacher's Association, it was shown
that "no race of human kind has yet ob-
tained a permanent foothold upon this Con-
tinent;" and the melancholy concessions
were that "unless some steps were taken to
avert the evil," we, the proud, enduring,
hitherto permanent occupants of this planet
are doomed, as a race, to an "untimely ex-
terminateion."
	It will be interesting to note the methods
that will be resorted to to avert this. Per-
haps it will be well to ascertain the causes
that gave rise to the extermination of the
races that once inhabited this Continent.
It may be possible that other than "climactic
influences" were operating then, by a "law"
that is not yet recognized. In the mean
time, we may read that which is a key to
these perturbations which exist in bosoms
that dread conditions that are inevitable:
"Wherefore I will consecrate this land (Amer-
ica) unto thy seed and they who shall be
numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land of their inheritance. For, it is a choice
land, saith God unto me, above all other
lands; wherefore I will have all men that


dwell thereon, that they shall worship me,
saith God!"—Book of Mormon.
	FAT IN FORAGE PLANTS.—Notice is tak-
en by scientific journals of the discoveries
of the German chemist, Konig, who found
that by treatment with strong alcohol, the
fat of grass, clover and hay could be sepa-
rated into two parts—one a solid waxy sub-
stance, the other a fluid fat, soluble in alco-
hol. By other chemists it has also been es-
tablished that even as much as ten per cent
of the dry weight of cereals is fat and wax:
early meadow grass, six and a half per cent
of fat. This is worthy of notice for exposure
to atmospheric change such as occer when
fodder is left uncovered, would cause de-
composition of these fatty matters and thus
make them worthless as food.


For the EXPONENT.
