SOMETHING NEW WANTED.

	The eye wearies of gazing for a length of time
upon the same objects, however beautiful they
may appear at first view; and the most pleasing
sounds become tedious when long listened to.
Thus the human mind is forever reaching forth
for some new motive, some stimulus to urge
the senses to new action and new acquirements.
Old facts that have long been known, become
monotonous if often repeated, and a kind of
thirsting after something more is likely to be
felt. The child could never progress in learning
if kept always at its a. b. c. lessons and never
allowed to turn over the leaf.
	The Latter-day Saints want new ideas placed
before them continually. This is an age of rapid
progression, and the Saints want to keep up
with the rest of the world. But how few among
them seem to realize the necessity of learning
properly, thoroughly understanding and wisely
practicing the former lessons which have been
for years placed before them for their own ben-
efit. A wise teacher does not often give lessons
for in advance of what his pupils evince will-


ingness and ability to comprehend. And how-
ever immaterial some of the principles of the
Gospel of Christ may appear to many who have
taken upon them His name, and covenanted to
keep His commandments, they cannot advance
as the true hearted ever desire to do, until they
have learned to put into daily practice every
principle which has been revealed to them by
the spirit of revelation from God. Their teach-
ers become weary of haranguing the old lessons
year after year, and would rejoice to see all the
world uniting to make good use of what has
long been taught, and preparing for more ad-
vanced additions to God's law.
	But what does it profit the Lord to hand out
new laws to people who are unprepared for
them? When He revealed the law of Celestial
marriage to President Joseph Smith, how many
were prepared to accept it? How many, to-day,
are really impressed with the importance of
sustaining Co-operation, of paying an honest
Tithing, or of observing faithfully the Word of
Wisdom? Who among the Latter-day Saints
are prepared for new lessons, new laws and or-
dinaces, should the Lord see fit to extend them?
Surely not those who have ceased to attend
Sabbath meetings because the same old doc-
trines are preached from the stand, and they
want to hear something new.


