			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE PARQUETTE in the Salt Lake Theatre is
now seated with iron chairs.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young, with some of
his counselors, held a two days’ meeting at
Provo City, on the 11th and 12th insts.
	AMERICAN FORK is reported by the Sunday
School Superintendent to take the lead in Utah
county, in the Sabbath School library depart-
ment.
	THE DESERET Teachers’ Association lately
held in this city a series of meetings, at which

[Column 2]
much valuable information, and many excel-
lent ideas, were given, of a nature calculated to
prove of great worth to those teachers who at-
tended.
	THE MUSIC and singing of the choir, during
Conference, deserves especial notice, and Pro-
fessor Careless merits all the compliments he
will ever get. Names may sometimes be sug-
gestive of character and habits, but when his is
considered in connection with the choice selec-
tion of pieces for that occasion, it sounds rather
inappropriate.
	IT IS thought that if ties can be procured by
the last of the present month, the Utah South-
ern railroad will have reached Provo city. Rail-
road enterprises are progressing finely in the
Territory, and by another fall the people of
many settlements may be accommodated with
a ride to the Fair and Conference, and home
again, on the cars.
	AT THE last monthly meeting of the Sunday
School superintendents and teachers, most of
the counties in the Territory were represented,
and a report from each, so far as had been re-
ceived, was read by the Secretary of the Sab-
bath School Union. It was estimated that as
many as nineteen thousand children were in
regular attendance at the various Sabbath
Schools throughout the Territory.
	IN THE Ladies’ department at the Territorial
Fair there was a variety of articles, particularly
many in crochet work, which were of so simi-
lar a quality that it was impossible to judge
which was the finest specimen. Some of the
Relief Societies made a very creditable display,
and they should all feel encouraged, and deter-
mined to make greater exertions to perform
good works in the future, even than have been
accomplished in the past.
	DURING THE Fair and Conference season we
were gratified to meet with many friends of
the EXPONENT from different parts of the Ter-
ritory, with some of whom our first personal
acquaintance was then formed. Among those
who favored us with pleasant calls we noted
the names of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President of
the R. S. at American Fork; Mrs. S. A. Peter-
son, President of the Ephraim R.S.; "Flora,"
from the South; "M.," of Grantsville; and Mrs.
Frodsham and Mrs. Herrick, of Ogden City.
	AN EQUESTRIAN match between six ladies
was witnessed by a large gathering of people at
the Agricultural Park track, in this city, on the
afternoon of the 9th inst. The competition was
not for the purpose of testing the speed of the
horses, but to decide which of the ladies rode
with most case and grace, and exhibited most
skill in the management of her horse. The first
prize, a handsome side saddle, was won by Miss
Birdie Clawson. Mrs. S. Ford gained the sec-
ond prize, which was the choice among a col-
lection of beautiful pictures.	THE SCHOOL Teachers’ Convention, that met
for three consecutive days, beginning on the
2nd of October, did efficient work in matters of
Education. All the addresses made were char-
acterized by the earnest spirit of progress, just
now, and always needed in this fast country
and age. The extemporaneous address of Gov.
Wood was not only eloquent, but full of prac-
tical suggestions concerning an educational law
for the good of the Territory, and betokened a
deep and abiding interest in the cause of schools
everywhere. The address of Mr. Rollins was
marked by uncommon ability for one so young,
and was delivered in a manner which portrayed
proficiency in elocution.


