MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT MAN carries everything before
him? The waiter. 
	THE MAN who had "a will of his own"
didn't get on very well at home, because his 
wife had a "won't of her own."
	METHODS OF INFLUENCE.—There is no
doubt that, among our social obligations,
that of influencing others to right conduct
should rank very high. We have not ful-
filled our whole duty to our fellow-men when
we have accorded them liberty of action,
have secured their natural rights, and re-
moved all impediments to their onward 
progress; we also owe them a direct and 
positive influence for good.
	ENVY PUNISHED.—A Burnmese potter, it
is said, becasme envious of the prosperity of 
a washerman, and to ruin him, induced the 
king to order him to wash one of his black
elephants white, that he might be "lord of 
the white elephant," which in the East is a 
great distinction. The washerman replied
that, by the rules of his art, he must have a 
vessel large enough to wash him in. The 
king ordered the potter to make him such a 
vessel. When made it was crushed by the 
first step of the elephant in it. Many times
was this repeated; and the potter was ruined
by the very scheme he had intended should
crush his enemy. 
	A TRUE LADY.—I cannot forbear point-
ing out to you, my dearest child, said Lord 
Collingwood to his daughter, the great ad-
vantages that will result from a temperate
conduct and sweetness of manner to all peo-
ple on all occasions. Never forget that you
are a gentlewoman, and all your words and 
actions should make you gentle I never
heard your mother—your dear, good moth-
er—say a harsh or hasty thing to any person
in my life. Endeavor to imitate her. I am
quick and hasty in my temper; but, my 
darling, it is a misfortune which, not hav-
ing been sufficiently restrained in my youth,
has caused me inexpressible pain. It has
given me more trouble to subdue this im-
petuosity than anything I ever undertook.
	A WELL known German florist related, in
a high state of irritation, his troubles, in 
this way. He said: "I have so much drouble
mit de ladies ven dey come to buy mine
rose; dey vants him hardy, dey vants him
doubles, dey vants him moundly, dey vants
him fragrand, dey vants him nice gouler,
dey vants gim ebery things in one rose. I 
hopes I am not vat you calls von uncallant
man, but I have somedimes to say to dat
laides, 'Madame, I never often sees dat la-
dies dat vas beautiful, dat vas rich, dat vas
good temper, dat vas youngs, dat vas clever,
dat vas perfection in one ladies. I see her 
much not!' "
	FIFTEEN GREAT MISTAKES.—It is a great 
mistake to set up our standard of right and 
wrong, and judge people accordingly. It is 
a great mistake to measure the enjoyment
of others by our own; to expect uniformity
of opinion in this world; to look for judg-
ment and experience in youth; to endeavor
to mould all dispositions alike; not to yield
in immaterial trifles; to look for perfection
in our own actions; to worry ourselves and 
others with what cannot be remedied; not 
to alleviate all that needs alleviation, as far
as lies in our power; not to make allowances
for the infirmities of others; to consider
everything impossible which we cannot 
perform; to believe only what our finite
minds can grasp; to expect to be able to un-
derstand everything.


Saturday Night.

Some one beautifully says: "Saturday
night makes people human, sets their hearts
to beating softly.  it is Saturday night, and 
business breathes free again.  Homeward,
ho!  The door that has been ajar all the
week gently closes behind him, the world is 
all shut out.  Shut out? shut in rather. Here
are treasures after all, and not in the vault,
and not in the book, save the record in the 
old family Bible, and not in the bank.  May
be you are a bachelor, frosty and forty.
Then, poor fellow, Saturday night is nothing
to you, just as you are nothing to anybody.
Get a wife, blue-eyed or black-eyed; but
above all, true-eyed.  Get a little home, no
matter how little, a sofa just to hold two, or
two and a half, and then get the two in it,
of a Saturday night, and then read this par-
agraph by the light of your wife's eyes, and
thank God and take courage."


