		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


PLAY.

	Nothing can be more cruel and nothing
more foolish than to place children where
they must be dressed every day in fresh and
fashionable clothes, and their freedom to
play curtailed for the sake of appearances.
What childhood needs is perfect freedom
among the things of nature—freedom to
romp, to make mud-pies, to leap fences, to
row, to fish, to climb trees, to chase butter-
flies, to gather wild flowers, to live out doors
from morning until night, and to do all
those things that innocent and healthy child-
hood delights in, in cheap, strong clothes
provided for the purpose. Exactly that
which childhood needs, manhood and wo-
manhood need—perfect liberty, and perfect
carelessness at times. So, whether the dwel-
ler by the sea, go inland for his summer play,
or the resident of the inland city go to the
sea, he should seek some spot unvisited by
those devoted to fashionable display, and
employ his time in unrestricted communion
with nature, and in those pursuits and
amusements which, without let or hin-
drance, perform the office of recreation.


SELF.

	You may depend on others for daily sup-
port. Your household duties or business af-
fairs may be left to the care of others. Ex-
penses and toil and all responsibilities may
be shirked, and left for others to attend to.
But if you would become any thing of your-
self, if you would have a bright and honor-
able name, a pure and irreproachable charac-
ter, these can only be secured to you by your
own exertions. We read of self-made he-
roes, of self-educated men. No hero ever
existed who did not, by his own self-will
and personal endeavors, perform the noble
deeds for which he became famous. No
scholar ever obtained his knowledge through
the abilities of another. His own brain had
to exert itself, and gain for itself the treas-
ures with which it was stored.
	One of the most pleasing things in nature
is to see a person earnestly striving to ac-
complish something worthy of being re-
membered and imitated. Every one likes to
be appreciated and praised. Let every one
be willing to render to others that encour-
agement which they all want for themselves.
It is unfair and selfish to ridicule or misrep-
resent the efforts of others to do something
 n the world.					L.


