MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.
CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BR NCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less that Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.
		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


