SELFISHNESS.

	Selfishness, in my opinion, is one of the
greatest causes of all evil. If all were wil-
ling to sacrifice their own private feelings
for the happiness and welfare of others, what
love and good feelings there would be,
where now exists animosity and discontent.
“Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heav-
en,” is verily true. If we are not willing to
bear crosses and make sacrifices, how shall
we expect to receive blessings?
	To my mind, one of the noblest, most
beautiful things in life, is a self-sacrificing
spirit. To see sisters, or wives, willing to
give way in favor of each other, is heavenly.
I think that persons possessed of such spir-
its are so near perfection, it would be quite
impossible to help loving them. But oh!
how few there are possessed of that heaven-
born influence, comparatively speaking.
When we can learn to forget self in seeking
to promote the happiness of others, we shall
be on the high road to perfect peace. Bur
now we are so apt to have self first in out
minds. If we were to show to others, that
wo had their interest at heart, we would
draw their affections in spite of themselves.
If we could have something like the same
feeling for our brother or sister that a moth-
er has for her child, I think it would be well
with us. There is no sacrifice too great for a


mother to make. Our blessed Saviour died
for all. He had no favorite, we were all the
same to Him. What an example of love and
self-sacrifice was this! And He says, “If ye
love me, keep my commandments; this is
my commandment. that ye love one another
as I have loved you. Greater love hath no
man thant his, that a man lay down his life
for his friends. By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples,if ye have love one
toward another.”
	How many of us, do you suppose, if called
upon, would be willing to lay down life for
a friend? I fear but very few. But let us
cultivate this self-sacrificing spirit and over-
come selfishness, that we may be loved of
the Father and ever have His spirit to be
with us to lead us into all truth.
						  M.A.F.


