SCRAPS.

	"BIRDIE" is what a young husband fond-
ly calls his wife, because, as he says, she is
always associated in his mind with a bill.
	"O, MAMMA," cried a little girl, in ecstacy
with her first French doll, "I'm just full of
happiness, and I wish I'd hurry and grow
bigger, so I could be happier!"
	THE word love in one of our Indian dia-
lects is "chemlendamaoughkanagogager."
Just fancy a sweet forest-maiden telling her
copper-colored brace that she chemlendam-
aoughkanagogagers him!
	A MAN in Jersey City is reputed to be so
witty that his wife manufactures all the but-
ter which the family use from the cream of
his jokes.
	A MINISTER at a marriage, said to a farm-
er, "Our joint occupations represent the chief
excellence of life. You till, I tie. (Utility.)
	A MENDICANT in New Orleans poked out
the eye of a lady who refused to give him
alms; and the justice before whom he was
taken wanted to know if his counsel moved
for a new trial.
	A GREAT military genius gives it as his
opinion that the only difference between the
plan of a battle-field and a roasted pippin is,
that the one is a war-map and the other a
warm-ap-ple.
	A JUVENILE correspondent wants to know
which is the oldest, Miss Ann Tiquity, Miss
Ann Terior, Miss Ann Cestor, Miss Ann T.
Cedent, or old Aunty Diluvian; which equals
the signatures accompanying the valentines
sent to an old bachelor last leap year. They
were Miss Jennie Rosity, Miss Ella Gance,
Miss Maggie Zine, and Miss Mattie Nay.
	THE following bit of news—startling and
wonderful(!)—clipped from a New York co-
temporary, will be of interest (?) to some la-
dies of this city:—"A report from Salt Lake
City says that George Q. Cannon, the Utah
delegate to Congress, has secretly secured
divorces from his three wives."
	A LETTER recently passed through some
of the Southern postoffices of this Territory,
with the following inscription, evidently for
the benefit of postmasters:
	You rascal, pass this letter by, There's
nothing in it worth a fly; It only asks a loan
of cash—Pioche again has gone to smash.
	The letter reached its destined place in
good time, and the recipient found, on its
arrival, that some appreciative postmaster
had replied to the above as follows:
	The writer of this letter merits an empty
purse, Himself a rascal or something worse.
To think such a thing won't reach its desti-
nation, Deserves to be doomed to conflagra-
tion!


