WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[First column]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	CUCUMBER PICKLES.—The small, long
kind are the best for pickling, and those but
half-grown are nicer than the full-grown.
Let them be freshly gathered; pull off the
blossoms, but do not rub them; pour over
them a strong brine, boiling hot; cover close,
and let them stand all night. The next day
put your hand in the jar or tub and stir
gently, to remove all sand, drain on a sieve,
and then dry in a cloth. Make a pickle
with the best cider vinegar, adding spice in
the following proportions: To each quart of
vinegar put half an ounce of whole black
pepper, the same of ginger and allspice, and
one ounce of mustard seed. If the flavor is
agreeable add four shalots, and two cloves
of garlic, to a gallon of vinegar. When this
pickle boils up, throw in the cucumbers, and
make them boil quickly as possible three or 
four minutes. Put them in the jar with the
boiled vinegar, and cover closely. When
cold, put in a sprig of dill, the seed down-
ward, if you like it. Made in this way,
they will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, pour off the
vinegar the next day; boil up, and pour
over the cucumbers; cover, perfectly tight.
	MELON PRESERVES.—To make an excel-
lent preserve from unripe melons, the green
part of watermelons and citrons, in imitation 
of preserved citron, boil in alum water—a
tablespoonful to about two gallons—pare, cut
in pieces, and lay in water for one or two
days, to take out the alum taste. The pie-
ces should not be quite soft, but like sweet
cucumber pickle. Drain well, make a sirup
of sugar—a pound to each pound of melon—
a pretty strong flavoring of ginger, as hot as
may be liked, remembering that when boil-
ed it will taste hotter, a little mace, and
some lemon peel or essence of lemon to taste.
Boil the pieces in this till clear. Unripe
melons are soaked for some days in brine,
cut up and freshened in cold water before
boiling in alum. This preserve requires-
watching, being very apt to mold.—"House
hold."
	TO CHECK diarrhea it is asserted that a
tea made with baked nutmegs is excellent.
	COUGH SIRUP.—Two ozs. licorice root, 1/2
pound raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls flaxseed
(ground), and liverwort, the more the bet-
ter; boil in two gallons rain or river water,
until the strength is out; then strain and
boil down to a quart; now add 1/2 pound white
sugar, when the sugar is dissolved take off,
and when cool add 1/2 pint good cider vine-
gar. The licorice root should be split up
finely, and the raisins divided. This makes
a sirup very pleasant to take, having no dis-
agreeable taste about it. It will cure coughs,
colds, soreness of the lungs, croup, and it is
said to cure consumption in its first stages.
	TO CLEAN MARBLE.—Take two parts of
common soda, one part of finely powdered
chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix
with water; rub it well all over the marble
and the stains will disappear; then rub the
marble over with soap and water. It will be
as clean as new.
	BAKED TOMATOES make a choice dish.
Select those of good size and ripe, wash, and
bake unseasoned on a pie-dish in a hot oven
for forty minutes, or until quite tender.
They are best to bake on the bottom
and to reduce the juice. If there is danger
of drying up the bottom before the fruit is
done, add water or more tomato juice. A
little of the thick juice should be served
with each tomato. These harmonize nicely
with beans, for a dinner side dish. If desir-

[Scond column]
ed, the skins can be removed before they
are sent to the table. These baked tomatoes
are nice to dry, pouring the juice over them
as the drying proceeds. If put away in a 
close jar, these can be used to good advan-
tage for soups when it is not desirable to
open a can; or they may be gently soaked in
hot water and used as baking tomatoes. For
the latter purpose, however, it is better to
can them as soon as baked. Have an abun-
dance of juice, pour some of it into the can,
fill up with the hot tomatoes, then boil the
can a little while to expel the air, and seal
up as you do other fruit.
	HOW TO BLEACH COTTON CLOTH.—It may
sometimes become necessary or convenient
to bleach a piece of cotton cloth, although as
a general thing it is better to obtain white
cloth already bleached. Home-bleaching,
moreover, is apt to injure the fabric more
than the process in use at the factories, es-
pecially when manipulated, as it always is
there, by skilled hands. However, cloth
may be bleached as follows: To five pounds
of cloth take twelve ounces of chloride of
lime. Dissolve the lime in a small quantity
of boiling water; when cold, strain it into a
sufficient quantity of water to cover the
cloth. This must first be boiled fifteen min-
utes in strong soapsuds and rinsed well in
clear water. Then put it in the lime-water
from ten to twenty minutes, airing it well
by lifting up and down. Rinse thoroughly
in warm or cold water.—"Rural New York-
er."


