[Vol1 | August 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Historical Gathering]
HISTORICAL GATHERING.
The Relief Society of the Box Elder Stake of Zion has set the pace, so to speak, for other stakes to follow, if they so desire, in holding a sort of reunion in recognition of the services rendered by those sisters who were first in the field, and who commenced and laid, as it were, the foundation on which to build and enlarge the work of charity and benevolence, opening up the work by devising ways and means by which the society has been enabled to accomplish much good for humanity.
President Stohl issued invitations to all the former members now living, wherever they might be, and also asked that the names of members who had died be collected and be enrolled, to make a complete total as far as possible, of those who had in any sense been helpful in bringing about the prosperity and aiding in the growth and success of this magnificent organization.
President Stohl has had this meeting under advisement for some time past and has now succeeded in demonstrating what patience and perseverance can accomplish, when many hands are set to work systematically, when forces are united in a given work.
This reunion covers a period of over fifty years, back to the time of the first ward organization in Box Elder County.
These initial names of those now long since departed awakened memories that were dear to the hearts and souls of relatives and friends, and were tenderly touching. 2 .
We admire the courage of this President, in her efforts to collect all these names and gather as much as possible from the records kept by these faithful Secretaries, when conditions were not so favorable as at the present time.
The women of today owe much to the founders of this society who, under difficulties that would seem insurmountable to this generation, established this society that has spread on both continents, wherever a branch of the Church has been organized.
It is something over half a century since the sisters in this desert land met here and there, in each others' homes or in the rude log meeting houses, or wherever it was possible, to unite their efforts for charitable purposes with faith hope and prayers, sing the songs of Zion, and make the most of their small means.
The Lord blessed them in their work, and it was crowned with success in many cases.
The history of these faithful wives and mothers, were it written, would fill many books.
We cannot honor them too much language fails in the attempt to do justice to the efforts; made to accomplish the results recorded, alleviating suffering and caring for the needy and helpless.
The old saying that many hands make labor light, was self-evident in this gathering and there is every reason to believe that those who made this large assembly an achievement have surely proved that they have very much satisfaction in the results of their noble and unselfish work.
The feast was in every sense most enjoyable 600 people were seated.
The expressions of delight on every face, told the story of happiness in unmistakable terms.
The house was full of faces beaming with pleasure and the yard was filled with women in holiday attire, with sunshine in their hearts which shed its radiance on all that came near.
It was a magnificent spectacle to gaze upon and they all seemed full of joy and gladness.
There were flowers everywhere in abundance, in festoons and garlands, which, of course, added to the picture, but the radiant faces beaming with delight, were certainly the greater attraction.
After the feast, the company repaired to the Tabernacle, which had been artistically decorated by the Y.
L.
M.
I.
A.
The stand was literally covered with flowers, and when the audience was seated and the organ pealed forth its sweet strains, which were most entrancing, the choir and congregation sang "Glorious Things Are Sung of Zion." Invocation offered by Annie Wells Cannon, after which Sister Farnham sang "Silver Threads Among the Gold." The Secretary opened the old . ' 3 record and called the names of the members of the first organization in Brigham City.
Fifty-seven answered to the call, but "where are the others?" was the thought of many present, "Where have ye tied, ye vanished? "We ask, ve do not tell." The minutes of the first organization were read after the and were very interesting; the few speakers could not roll call,  express what was in their hearts this was very apparent, the heart can feel what the lips cannot utter in fact, it seemed the; occasion was one to call for silent solemnity.
It was almost as though one were in the presence of those departed, whose names had echoed through the building when the roll was called.
