	MRS. NEWMAN'S EXTRAVAGANZAS.

	We have had the privilege of perusing the
pamphlet containing the "Notes of a Hearing be-
fore the Committee on Education and Labor,"
United States Senate, May 7th, 1886. The hear-
ing was referred to in the last number of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. It says, first of all,
	"Proposed establishment of a school under the
direction of the Industrial Christian Home Asso-
ciation of Utah, to provide means for the self-
support of the dependent classes in that Terri-
tory, and to aid in the suppression of polygamy
therein." Then follows the Memorial, which sets
forth the arrangements entered into, in detail, and
closes by saying, "The demand for such an insti-
tution is found."
	First. In the anomalous condition of Utah
Territory under Mormon regime.
	Second. In the fact that there is not a single
benevolent institution in the Territory for the de-
pendent classes.
	Moreover, it is hopeless to expect a Mormon
legislature to appropriate funds to meet a condi-
tion of things which the Mormon leaders declare
does not exist, or to establish an institution which
shall contribute towards the disintegration of the
Mormon Church.
	"Hence national obligation is apparent."
	"The principle is fundamental in a republican
form of government to protect its helpless minori-
ties, especially so when these minorities are
women and children.
	"The question of self-support is based in the
solution of the problem of the disruption of poly-
gamous households.
	"It is a well-known fact that there are many who
would voluntarily abandon polygamous relations
if facilities for self support were provided.
	"Furthermore, it is futile to legislate against ex-
isting relations and make no provision for the
terrible exigencies which arise in the execution
of law.
	"Fathers and mothers whose moral nature has
survived the wreck of polygamous life will at
least hesitate to impose upon their children imme-
diate disaster by either voluntary or enforced obe-
dience&nbsp;to national law.
	"Therefore, it is with confidence in that justice
which is the apotheosis of mercy, that we your pe-
titioners, in behalf of those who cannot speak for
themselves, except by their silent appeal to the
nation's God, ask of your honorable body the ap-
propriation of $100,000 to the Industrial Christian
Home Association for the construction and equip-
ment of such an institution as is herein specified.
			Respectfully submitted,
		JEANETTE H. TERRY, Prest.,
					Park City, Utah Territory,
		MARGARET D. ZANE, Vice Prest.,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
		CORNELIA A. PADDOCK, Secretary,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
	Also signed, George A. Lowe, Ira E. Lyons,

[Column 2]
Hector M. Scott, James M. Darling, George E.
Ellis, Henry W. Lawrence (per Angie F. New-
man, Vice President at Large, Trustees Salt Lake
City.) Testimonials from clergymen and others,
well known as anti-Mormon, are next given, after
which follows the argument.  We had thought to
take it up in full and correct the false statements,
but it would perhaps be a waste of time; there-
fore we will only notice a few glaring errors. In
the first paragraph of her argument she says:
	"I am here in behalf of women whose lips are
sealed by the Priesthood, whose hands are
shackled by their own ballots, of which I can
give proof if necessary; women who are denied
the right of petition by the very men who enfran-
chised them. A notable instance of the right of
petition is when 473 women of Utah petitioned
to the national Congress against the admission of
Utah as a State, and when the names were re-
ported in Utah many of these women, under the
 most severe pressure, were obliged to make public
retraction, and to declare that their signatures
were fraudulently obtained."
	We would very much like to know when this all
happened, if Mrs. Newman, or any of these
trustees, whose names are attached, can give
these particulars definitely; we should be glad to
learn how and when all this occurred, and who
any of these women are who were "obliged to
make public retraction?" In fact, we would like
one single name furnished us. This is all nonsense:
it is impossible to imagine where Mrs. Newman
could have fished up this story.
	In the next paragraph Mrs. Newman says she
has a right to speak in behalf of "motherbood out-
raged and compromised children crying for bread."
There are no children in Utah crying for bread,
nor any lack either of food or clothing; there are
no poor houses or orphan asylums needed for
"Mormon" children, but the same cannot be said
of other States and Territories. She also says; "I
am here because in my veins flows the blood of
the Pilgrim Fathers," and so on. How many
"Mormons" there are who might say the same
thing if that would entitle them to special privileges.
It is utterly impossible in a newspaper article to
take up the argument entire; one can only touch
some particular points, and show, perhaps, a trifle
or two concerning the manner in which she deals
with the subject, and the unfairness with which
she treats women who have expressed decided
views upon plural marriage; women who have
lived in it, and consequently must know more
about it than she possibly can; women as pure and
as noble as any the blessed sun ever shone upon,
women of education, cultivated taste and refine-
ment.
	The lady goes on to say, "The foundation, the
perpetuity of this government is based upon the
subjugation of women. Polygamy, whatever one
says to the contrary, is the initiative and the ulti-
matum. The primal effect of polygamous life is
to build prison walls about its victims, whose pon-
derous gates never swing outward except to crush
the hand that tampers with the locks." This may
be very pretty and sensational, and may move the
hearts of the Committee and of Congress, but it
lacks the vital element of truth, and will not stand
the test of reason, common sense, or the facts,
which are and must be evidence as against sensa-
tional reports or pathetic appeals. She invalidates
her own statement, when she says, in another part
of her argument, how easily divorces are obtained,
but she grossly misrepresents when she says,
"There are scores who have been divorced from
one to ten and fourteen times, of which there is
abundant record." Here is another statement
made which Mrs. Newman should be prepared to
prove. But it is as false as it is cruel. When the
lady makes such assertions as these she should
bring forward the proof, by telling of at least one
instance in which there has been a number of di-
vorces.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Newman says that in the Mass Meeting in
the theatre "the American flag was draped in irony
above the speakers." Have not the Latter-day
Saints as much right to the flag as other citizens?
and they certainly honor it quite as much, and the
liberty, of which it is the symbol, is as dear to
them as to Mrs. Newman, or any one else. She
further adds, "I listened for four hours to a repu-
diation of national sovereignty, a vilification of the
Federal officers, and a vindication of illicit alli-
ances, which made me shiver. The report of that
meeting has been greatly toned down, as my own
notes and the notes of Dr. Jackson, of Fort
Douglas, and others, will amply attest." Then
she adds that she will use their own stenegraphic
notes, that she may not be charged with injustice,
and goes on to make quotations from Dr. Pratt,
Laura Minor and Dr. E. R. Shipp. However, she
proves nothing, but to repeat the slander and
falsehoods that have been going the rounds of
the country for years. Speaking of the number
of wives she declares that "in Utah a patriarch
has ten, fifteen or twenty." Here is another
chance for her to tell who these men are who have
this extra number of wives, as we who live here
do not know of such families. She also asserts
that one half of this people are in the practice of
plural marriage; another false statement. Her in-
formation, according to her argument, is of the
most complete and varied character; she knows
more than any old settler in the country, but what
she affirms exists only in her inflated imagination.
	Does Mrs. Newman fancy that "Mormons"
don't know the deceit, treachery and in-
famy that prevails to an alarming extent in the
world? Congressmen need not go outside the
District of Columbia to find unhappy and unhal-
lowed marriage relations in monogamy, and this
woman, no doubt, knows it well. If Congress
wants to make an appropriation for women to be
educated to earn their own living, the best place
to begin is at the Nation's Capitol, for in Utah
such charitable institutions are not needed, nor
will they be patronized by "Mormons." Not at all.
	After expatiating largely upon a national flag she
brought here from Cincinnati, and, by the way,
the "Mormons" brought the first national flag that
ever was brought here, and planted it on the tops
of the mountains, and had as much pride in see-
ing it wave—aye, more than Mrs. Newman, with
all her boasted patriotism, for to them it did mean
liberty and freedom, and she would destroy the
freedom, happiness and peace of the homes
created under its shelter and protection, she
brings inthe following sensational paragraph, which
she no doubt thinks will stir the feelings of those
sage congressmen to the very centre of their souls.
It reads thus:
	"Gentlemen, I do not make to you a needless
plea, for night after night I have stood on some
table land in that fair valley. I have looked upon
that silvery lake, asleep in the quiet moonlight,
the silent stars keeping their watch in the sky, the
shadow of the granite mountains falling over the
city, and stilling the pulses of my own throbbing
heart, I have heard a wail, long, deep and terrible,
coming up from thousands of hushed voices, from
lips dumb in their cold agony, come sweeping up
to the ear of the Omnipotent, and in its choral
tone. I have heard the refrain of the Kathayan
slave, in the pen at Oung-pen-la. 'My Father, I
cannot die so; I cannot die so. Send some
blessed evangel to open the gates of thy mercy.'
Gentlemen, shall we find in you the 'blessed evan-
gel' of their long vigils?"
	There is much more in a similar strain. Now,
we will tell you what she might have heard if she
did not, instead of the mournful refrain she pic-
tures, the prayers and hymns from a thousand
homes arising in gratitude to God for His favors
and blessings, and interceding with Him to pro-
tect them and their little ones from those, who
under the guise of law, are bringing sorrow, misery


and desolation, ruined homes, blighted hopes, and,
all the attendant evils, cruel and remorseless, that
result from religious persecution.  If Mrs. New-
man has a human heart, if she can feel for those
whose sorrows should make them sacred, especial-
ly so to all their own sex, who possess genuine
womanly tenderness, she must know the torture
the anguish of soul the Edmunds law
is inflicting upon innocent women and child-
ren; and to insult them by asking alms from the
National Congress, to which they themselves are 
appealing through petitions, eloquent and strong, 
with forcible truths for simple justice and a hu-
mane administration of law, is too great an insult
to be borne without remonstrating, protesting and
declaring against such measures.  The tables will
turn by and bye, and the persecutors of this peo-
ple will need aid and assistance far worse than
the "Mormons" need it now.  The relief the
"Mormons" want is justice, and those rights and
liberties guaranteed by that glorious Constitution
of our common country, nothing more. Having
these and the blessing of God upon their efforts 
and endeavors, happiness and prosperity will
abound, and many people will flock hither and 
find peace and security, and oppression and bond-
age will be unknown.


