MISCELLANEOUS.

	The way to do good is to be good. There
must be light, then it will shine.—Cannon
Fleming.

	There is nothing so sweet as a duty, and all
the best pleasures of life come in the wake of
duties done.—Jean Ingelow

	God weigheth more with how much love a
man worketh than how much he doeth. He
doeth much that loveth much.—Th omas a Kem
pis.

	While reason is puzzling herself about the
mystery, faith is turning it into her daily
bread, and feeding on it thankfully in her
heart of hearts.—. D F. Huntington

	If we practise goodness, not for the sake of
its own intrinsic excellence, but for the sake
of gaining some advantage by it. we may be
cunning but we are not good.—Cicero.

	The best name by which we can think of
God is Father. It is a loving, deep, sweet,
heart-touching name; for the name of father is,
in its nature; full of inborn sweetness and
comfort.—Luther.

	In eternity it will amount to more to have
given a cup of cold water, with right motives,
to an humble servant of God than to have
been flattered by a whole generation.—Dr.
Cumming.

	The warm sunshine and the gentle zephyr
may melt the glacier which has bid defiance
to the howling tempest; so the voice of kind-
ness will touch the heart which no severity
could subdue.—Herder.

	All that is good,generous, wise,right—what-
ever I deliberately and forever love in others
and myself,—who or what could by any possi-
bility have given it to me but one who first had
it to give?  This is not logic: this is axiom.—
Carlyle

	Trust Him when you cannot trace Him. Do
not try to penetrate the cloud which He brings
over you and to look through it. Rather keep
your eye fixed steadily on the bow that is on
the cloud. The mystery is God’s; the promise
is yours.—Macduff


The defeat of the Home Rule bill in Eng-
land is to Irishmen what the defeat of the
woman suffrage bill in this country is to
women.  In each case the final triumph is
deferred.
	The Woman Suffrage Society of Englewood,
Ill. will celebrate July 4 as 'Foremothers'
Day."  The Rev. Olympia Brown and Mary
Allen West have been engaged as speakers.
The ladies will send refreshments, and an in-
teresting programme has been prepared.


