DEAR MISS IDA:
*	*	I received the letter,	*	the coun-
sel was good, and just such as we were given
by the brethren of the Twelve.  Send me
another like it, only a great deal longer.  I
have not heard from Milo since we separated
on the 29th ult., but he was to go to Virginia
after visiting his relatives in Kentucky. Leav-


ing him was the next thing to leaving home
and mother.
	The scenery over the D. & R. G. cannot be
surpassed. It is awfully grand! My compan-
ion, James Campbell, of Salt Lake City, and
myself, have been out on two trips, but did
not get an opportunity to preach, our labors
 being confined to private conversation. Some
parts of our field of labor have been canvassed
by the Elders in times past, and in other parts
the people have never seen an Elder. In the
mountain districts, among the poorer classes,
we find some people who are very friendly, and
appear quite willing to investigate the princi-
ples of the Gospel, but the more wealthy, who
are located on the low lands, manifest a total
indifference, and care to have nothing to say to
us after they find out who we are. The day
will come, and that speedily, when they will be
willing to accept the truth, and when they
know not where to find it.
	This is truly a day of gleanings, and the
blood of Israel is hard to find. The people
are bound down by sectarian traditions and
a false Christianity, from which it seems they
cannot extricate themselves. This country is
worn out and unfruitful, and the religion of
the people more barren than the soil, for the
soil does bring forth some fruit, but the fruits
of their religion are evil. We are generally
treated far better by those who make no pro-
fessions of piety. The people are generally
very poor but they give us the best they have.
No one could ask more. Those who possess
more of this world’s goods have no place for
us, or the principles we teach, as a rule. One
night we were hunting lodgings until 9 o’clock,
being passed from one place to another until 
we had been turned away nine times, but by
strong argument, we prevailed on the tenth
one to give us a bed, but we had no supper.
Next morning they gave us breakfast and
seemed quite friendly, but wanted no “Mor-
monism.”
	I do not feel as well here as I do in Utah,
but still I cannot complain much. I have felt
quite cheerful and light-hearted, generally,
and if I can have the faith and prayers of the
Saints in my behalf I shall enjoy my labors.
I have had but one letter from Utah since
leaving, but I learn from Elder Morgan that
matters are getting worse.	*	 *	*
	Ever praying for the welfare of all the
Saints in Zion, and craving an interest in
your faith and prayers, I remain,
	Your true friend and thankful student,
					GEO. W. BAKER.
	May 20, 1886.


