EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. 
conference of Tooele Stake was held June 12th 
and 13th, in Grantsville, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presid-
ing. Sisters E. Howard and H. M. Whitney of 
this city were in attendance, and give an interesting
report of the proceedings. 
	THE annual meeting of the Sixteenth Ward
Relief Society of this city will be held to-day. 
Notice of these meetings will appear in our next
issue.  The annual meeting of the Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Granger will be held to-day in
the ward house at that place; Sisters M. I. Horne,
B. W. Smith and Nellie Colebrook will attend. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held on Friday, the 25th of June, in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
city. It is desirable that there should be a good 
attendance of the officers and members from all
parts of the Stake. The Primary conference will
be held on the Saturday following, June 26th, in 
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. 
	THE Tucker Edmunds Bill has been reported
by the Judiciary Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives of the U. S. Congress.  It is harsh
and cruel in its measures with respect to Utah and 
those who respect the liberty of conscience could
scarcely wish for its passage, whatever opposition
they may feel towards "Mormonism."  It is not
very likely to be reached this session, at any rate, 
and before another session of Congress there may 
be great changes in the affairs of the nation. 
	FROM Sister Betsy C. Glover and from Sister
Catherine Woodbury we have received charming
bouquets of choice and fragrant flowers to grace
the editorial table. Many thanks for these beauti-
ful remembrances, which call forth sentiments of 
love and esteem. Flowers are always a fitting
gift, though simple, the modest wild flower carries
as many memories with it as the most highly culti-
vated, exotic, perhaps even more. We also extend
our thanks to Sister Mary Gray for the delicious
cherries sent us, not only this year, but it seems to 
have become an annual token of her affectionate
generosity. It is sweet to be remembered by one's
friends, and trifles often tell more than an elabor-
ate display.


[Column 1]

