WOMEN HOME MISSIONARIES.

	Mrs. Mary Freeze, President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. L.
Crowther, of Logan, left the latter place to
visit the Oneida Stake, with Mrs. Fox, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of that Stake, and
her two Counselors, in behalf of the Relief 
Society. District Conferences were appointed
at Malad, Oxford, Gentile Valley,Mink Creek
and Franklin, at all of which places the
Young Ladies' and Primaries were also met
with. Ten or twelve meetings were held dur-
ing the ten days trip, all of which were
sustained by the priesthood and brethren,
old and young. They drove about one hun-
dred and fifty miles, and some of the roads in
that new country are not the best in the
world. The courtesy of the brethren, who
drove, the generous hospitality of the sisters,
and the gracious welcome and kindly greet-
ings of all will never be forgotton. The
memory of the exercises of the young will
ever be a pleasing one to all who listened; the
clear bird like voices of the boys, girls and
young ladies seemed inspirational, and the
gentle grace with which the calls were re-
sponded to, especially considering they had
not been notified, gives the result of training
of Sabbath schools, Primaries and other or-
ganizations, and places them above praise.
	The teaching of the visiting sisters was re-
ceived with attention and gratitude; but there
is a dark side to the picture; viz., the warfare
made upon us by our enemies. Three of our
brethren left Mink Creek on the same morn-
ing we did, to go to Blackfoot to receive sen-
tence for keeping the laws of God; others
went from Franklin, and though their hearts
must have been torn and bleeding, they
parted with wives and little ones with a forti-
tude born of minds in which God reigns.
	Some of the traveling sisters were also
passing through the fire, and were therefore
well prepared to give sympathy and kind
words of counsel and consolation. Still an-
other sad case was witnessed by them of a girl-
wife, whose condition calls forth the sorrowing
sympathy of all who look upon her sweet sad
face. Through the gross usage she received at
Blackfoot, and the imprisonment of her hus-
band her reason has been entirely dethroned.
He, after six months absence, returned to find
her in this pitiable condition. When the
Lord comes out of his hiding  place to take 
vengeance on the wicked,who would wish to be a 
U. S. Judge?
	On Sunday, the 23rd, Mrs. Presendia Kim[-]
ball, Mrs. Zina Young and Mrs. Zina Y


Williams visited Franklin and all attended
meetings together.
