EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER.—In reading the papers one is
struck with the unqualified and groundless ex-
pressions, so frequently falling from the lips, and
flowing from the pens of speakers and writers on
those questions which relate in any manner to the
Latter-day Saints.  I notice a fair sample of this
wholesale, unreasoning declamation against an
unpopular people, in a short letter, recently pub-
lished in the Deseret News, over the signature of
Helen M. Cougar, copied from the "Inter 
Ocean.
	She makes use of the following language:
"every right minded woman in the country wants
polygamy in Utah Stamped out, and the sooner
the better."
	As a woman I claim the right to dispute this
proposition as emphatically as it has heen made.
I am aware how very unpopular it is in the world
to take this position, but America is a great and
a free country and I presume I have the same
right of free speech, and to my opinion, and per-
haps as good authority to sustain my position as
she has.
	The strong prejudice in the mind of this lady,
as in the minds of those of her class, and the
public generally, perhaps, upon this subject, arises
from their education, traditions and the many
other circumstances surrounding them which in-
fluence their thoughts.
	But there are thousands of women "in the coun-
try," not excepting Utah, who have been brought
up under these same traditions and circumstances,
and educated in the same schools of learn-
ing and experience in the world, who through
deeper research and thought on the subject and
more thorough investigation have come to the op-
posite conclusion which warrants my emphatic de-
nial of the charge as above stated.
	The presumption is, and it is a fair presumption
from my standpoint, that the lady who made this
broad assertion has studied the politics of the
country more thoroughly, and has paid more at-
tention to the subject of woman's suffrage than
ever she has done to the subject of plural mar-
riage among the Latter-day Saints, and while I
readily concede to her the right to speak for her
political friends, I doubt her authority as to the
"wants," or desires of "right minded women,"
or upon the question involving the right minded-
ness of women, at all on this subject let her speak
for herself, and for those who hold the same views
that she does, if they do not object, but that this
class will include "every right minded woman in
the country," is a part of her assertion which I
deny.  I claim that intelligent ladies who have
passed through the narrow limits of the views en-
tertained by this lady upon matters of religion,
in all their details, into broader conceptions of
God's law, and who have perhaps studied poli-
tics, equally with herself, but through earnest in-
quiry and investigation, and prayerful study and
reflection have become convinced that plural
marriage, as designed, sanctioned and commanded
and blessed by Almighty God from time im-
memorial, as demonstrated by the Holy Scriptures;
and as practiced by the Latter-day Saints, is
neither criminal nor sinful, will come as near to
being "right minded women," as this "promi-
nent lady" does, or those of her class; and it is my
opinion that there are thousands of these "right
minded women in the country," who do not "want
polygamy in Utah stamped out" nor to hear it
interfered with in the least, either by such bigoted,
presumptuous, arrogant and tyranical men as Sena-
tor Edmunds, the Congress of the United States,
or by the supposed "right-minded women of the
country" who do not understand the Latter-day
Saints nor their religion, and are not authorized
to speak for them.
	Again this lady says:—"polygamy can be

[Column 2]

done away with on constitutional principles."
When the Constitution is silent upon the question
of polygamy," and does not refer to religion at all,
except that "no religious test shall ever be re-
quired as a qualification to any office or public
trust under the United States," and, in its first
amendment, that, "Congress shall make no law re-
specting an establishment of religion or prohibit-
ing the free exercise thereof," it would certainly
be interesting to know how plural marriage in 
Utah, an essential part of the religion of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, "can be done away with on Con-
stitutional principles?"  Yet she further says; "If
men in Congress are incapable of killing this
monster of polygamy, that they have nursed by
their shilly-shallying, lo, these many years, then
let the Loziers take their seats for a time and it
will be done without adding another wrong to the
great wrongs already inflicted." She has an idea
it would seem, that the "great wrongs already in-
flicted," are the failures, from time to time, of
Congress to settle the Mormon question and that
the methods of doing this, or killing the monster
of polygamy "to be adopted by the "Loziers,"
would be speedy, effectual and harmless!
	This can be regarded only as a meaningless
boast or hoax, unless she can show us that the
ruination of our homes, the destruction of peace-
ful and happy families, the unjust and cruel inter-
ference with the sacred rites of religion, by secu-
lar authorities, and the innumerable attendant,
terrible consequences, that must ensue, would not
be as "great" and as infamous wrongs if com-
mitted by the cold blooded, heartless Nero of the
Senate Mr. Edmunds, and a male Congress, who
have already demonstrated, notwithstanding all
their cunning ingenuity and sophistry to gloss over
the ugly fact, how utterly impossible it is to touch
the question of plural marriage in Utah, except by
the passage of cruel, proscriptive, retroactive,
or ex-post-facto and unconstitutional laws, in-
cluding stringent, "religious test" oaths which are
directly forbidden by the Constitution, expunging
the rights of citizens without process of law, also
the violation of sacred contracts, and the disrup-
tion of pure and peaceful communities, and the
plundering of helpless families, and ruining them
by fines imprisonment and costs, inflicted upon
their natural protectors, and attempting the utter
spoliation of an industrious, peaceful, moral, re-
ligious and intelligent people, a people law abid-
ing from the beginning, and still so, in spite of the
illiberal, partial, cruel and unjust laws enacted ex-
clusively against them, and mercilessly and wanton-
ly enforced; the attempted political capture, and
degradation and corruption of one of the most
prosperous, best governed, purest, happiest, and
and blest Territories of the United States in-
volving untold and unspeakable anguish and sor-
row and misery, needlessly—wantonly upon hon-
orable men, innocent women and helpless children. 
Would all these evils become less if committed by 
the "Loziers" temporarily filling the seats of con-
gressmen? Could the women suffragists accom-
plish, under the Constitution, or by constitutional
means, what they have no warrant for doing, nay,
what they are forbidden to do by the constitution,
any more innocently or harmlessly than perfidious
politicians are now trying to do?
	There is but one way for them to do any different-
ly and that would be to wisely withdraw from the
attempt, as they only can do constitutionally, and
leave the great "Mormon problem" to settle itself.
But in the judgement of this lady, polygamy is a
"monster" which must be grappled with and
"killed!"  Thus her inconsistency becomes appar-
ant.  While she opposes interference by con-
gress with the established rights of female suff-
rage in Utah, she soundly berates Congress for
"shilly-shallying, lo for these many years" with
the Religion of the Latter-day Saints, and the
sacred rights of their plural marriage rights
established for long years before there


was any law of Congress making plural marriage
a misdemeanor, and with which constitutionally
Congress had no right to interfere; and because
Congress had not violently and without just cause
or provocation abolished plural marriage which
she regards without reason as a great “monster”
which should be killed.” O consistency! thou
art a jewel!”
	I am, affectionately, your sister in the Gospel.
								J. L. S


