MY DEAR EDITOR:
	Considering it my duty to help maintain the
right of franchise, awarded us by our Legis-
lature, and seeing it endangered by the pas-

[Column 2]

sage of the new Edmunds bill, through  the
Senate, I take the liberty of entering my pro-
test. Claiming that the right of suffrage is a
part of a voter's property, its value is inestim-
able; you can as well make a law to deprive us
of our homes if the right of franchise can be
taken away or imparied. It is a right we high-
ly prize, because it is the right preservative of
all other rights. Why is it that we are to be
deprived of this right? Because we have
dared to vote for an honest government, and
against rapacity and fraud; because we have
dared to vote for our friends—for men that
have borne the burden, and helped to develop
and make the Territory; men who sought to es-
tablish a perfect Union, who strove to insure do-
mestic tranquillity, to promote general welfare
and secure the blessing of justice. And we
say to those who would deny us this right, the
right to vote for men of our choice, to pause
and consider before they are plunged into the
gulf of political disgrace, ignominy and ruin.
	Who ever heard of such disgraceful doings
in courts of justice as we hear of in the courts
of Utah. Our judicial courts are a disgrace
to any nation. Why our judges, and even
deputy marshals, presume to take, or assume
as much authority as the most despotic king
that ever wore the ermin[-], and we are denied
the right of trial by a jury of our peers, but
have test oaths and packed juries.  None are
allowed to sit on a jury that even believe in
the principles of our religion.  We ought to
be able to look to the judicial tribunal for
protection against illegal or unconstitutional
acts;  we ought to have independent judges and
enlightened juries as citadels of popular Liber-
ty, as well as for private justice.  "What we
possess is hardly fit to be called our own, un-
less we feel secure in its possession, and this
security, this feeling of perfect safety cannot
exist under a wicked or even a weak and igno-
rant administration of the law. There is no
happiness, there is no liberty, there is no en-
joyment of life unless a man can say, when he
rises in the morning, I shall be subject to the
decision of no unjust judge to-day."—Webster.
Can we as a community say that we shall be
subject to the decision of no unjust judge to-
day or to-morrow?  No, we do not know, when
we lay down at night, whether we will not be
dragged from our beds before morning to testify
before an unjust judge against our husbands
(which is unconstitutional) and after being in-
sulted, and plyed with questions that are inde-
cent, and which ought to cause the blush of
shame to mantle the brow of any gentleman,
held under bonds for contempt. Can such
things be done with impunity? Oh, no! The
Lord will deal out even-handed justice to those
who have used such despotic and unwarrant-
able power, and have manifested such unhal-
lowed and wanton disregard of their oath of
office. Let them beware! for the wrath of an
offended God will overtake them and cut short
their days of wickedness, for so far can they
go and no further, and although it may look
dark for an oppressed and outraged people,
those who live according to the will of God,
and are humble before Him, there is a bright
future, and they can see the bright sunshine
behind the cloud, and the day of their deliver-
ance is nigh. Although our brethren, and
some of our sisters, free citizens, have been,
and are imprisoned, immured in prisons, count-
ing the slow revolving hours of their captivity,
and spending their nights in prayers and

[Column 3]

dreams of their wives and children, counting
the time when they will again enjoy their so-
ciety, and the blessings of home, they are
happy and contented, for they know that they
have the love and confidence of their families,
the blessing of Almighty God, and the esteem
and respect of all lovers of equal rights and
constitutional Liberty. True heroes! who can
hold up their heads with the emblems of true
nobility, honor, trust and integrity stamped
upon their brows, suffering for the truth, like
unto their Master, and woe be unto those that
fight against God, for they will have their por-
tion in the day of judgment. Jesus says, "In-
asmuch as they persecute you, blessed art
thou, for so did they unto me, and the servant
is not greater than his Master."
	It is said to-day, "Why does not the Lord
take care of His people, if you are the Lord's
people? Why does He not confound your
enemies and prevent His servants from going
to prison." Just so they said in the days of
the Savior: "If Thou art the Son of God
come down from the cross, and we will be-
lieve;"  and they spat upon Him and mocked
Him, and gave Him vinegar to drink, until
He was fain to cry, "Father, if it is possible,
let this cup pass." Then why should we fear
the frowns of men, or why should we murmur?
No, we will not complain, but seek for strength
to enable us to stand firm and true to our in-
tegrity to God and our religion, and as there
is no middle course, let us be found on the
right side.  As we will be held accountable to
God for the use we make of the talents the
Lord has given us, if we hide them under a
bushel, it is our duty to defend our rights and
our religion, and not be ashamed to acknowl-
edge our Father before the world, and to de-
fend every principle of truth revealed to us
for our salvation, and let our walk and con-
duct be such that we can have the approbation
of our Father in heaven; let us nobly take our
part in the great work of the last days. We
have the right to worship God according to our
own convictions, and no one has the right to
say what we shall incorporate in our creed as
our religion. Although Congress may take
the responsibility, they do it in opposition to
the spirit and intent of the Constitution. We
ask the members of the House to stop and con-
sider, and we ask all lovers of constitutional
liberty, equal rights and free governments to
use their influence with the members to vote
against the bill now before the House, as it is
a bill against all the laws of a Republican gov-
ernment, and strikes at the very foundation of
this Republic, and will be a disgrace to the
American people; it is the essence of despot-
ism, and will have a tendency to create discord
and unsettle the union, will effect the nation
at large, and it will cause trouble nearer home
than Utah.
		S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., March, 1886.


