EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—There was a district confer-
ence of the Primaries of Clarkston, Newton
and Trenton held at this place May 22nd, 1886.
We were favored with the presence and good
counsel of Sisters Molen and Burton of the
Presidency of the Primaries, also Sister
Adeline Barber, President of the Relief Society
of this Stake, and Sister Hopukina, from the
Sandwich Islands. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by John
Jardine. Singing, “We want to see the Tem-
ple.” Coun. Sarah Shumway asked the ques-
tions from the Bible question book, which
were answered in a very creditable manner.
Recitation, Sarah Stewart, of the Clarkston
Primary; Song, Ann Funk, of the Newton
Primary, “Take me back to Home and Mother.”
Sister Hopukina spoke a short time in her na-
tive language. Adam Godfrey of Clarkston
recited verses from the Testament; Mary Bar-
ker of Newton recited verses from the Testa-
ment; Song, Martha Rigby and Minnie Funk,
of Newton; Dialogue, Olive Beck and Minnie
Funk, of Newton. Prest. Elizabeth Griffin
reported the Primary of Newton to be in good 
working condition. Song,  Eliza Barson,
Sylvai Thompson and Agness Shumway, of


Clarkston. Prest. Caroline G. Thompson re-
ported the Primary of Clarkston to be doing
well.  Sadie Shumway spoke a piece—“Not fit
to be kissed;” Recitation, Sarah Jensen and
Jeanie Barker, of Newton. Sister Maud Bur-
ton spoke a short time on the Word of Wisdom.
Recitation, Sarah Ann Jensen, of Clarkston,
“Our Baby.” Bishop John Jardine spoke a 
few minntes. Sister Barber spoke on Temple
duties. Peter Jensen of Newton spoke a piece,
“The Crow;” Agnes Shumway of Clarkston
recited “Ben Fisher;” Sister Hopukina sang a
song;Sister Barker of Newton and Prest. Mary
Griffin of Clarkston each made remarks. Jane
Molen then addressed us; talked on a great
many interesting topics, and all felt to rejoice.
Bishop John Jardine moved that we give the
sisters a vote of thanks for their visit to us.
Prest. Caroline G. Thompson also thanked the
sisters for their visit, and thus passed one of the
best days ever spent on the west side of Cache
Valley. Singing, “Lord dismiss us." Bene-
diction by Coun. K. A. Jensen.
		  Your sister in the Gospel,
