	WOMAN'S VOICE.
	
	Woman's voice should be heard in defense
of her rights, those of her family, and of all
she holds dear. A true patriotic spirit and
feeling should actuate her to do good in any
and every sphere, though she may be derided
 under the appellation of "female rooster."
There are some of the opposite gender who
would intimidate us and try to make us be-
lieve we do not know anything but to wash,
scrub, make or mend for the whole household.
Do not be daunted, my sisters, in raising your
voices in the cause of truth and justice; we 
have immortal souls, and have a right to think
and act according to our honest convictions
and aspirations. 'Tis woman who moulds and
forms the minds of both men and women, and
that first teaches them to lisp their infant
prayers; who,by her watchful eye, attentive ear
and wordsof advice and caution,leads and guides
for good the rising generation, when father is
away, or too busy to attend, as many give evi-
dence, to such little affairs, as they would
term it, that are woman's duty. A mother has
this weighty, important duty,  besides tending
to outside affairs, when the father is absent, or
should he, through sickness, be incapable of
attending to his business. Mother of sheer
necessity must take hold, not only in her own
affairs, as some are pleased to term it, but she
must also give her mind and strength in the
direction of where bread and butter comes
from, and if a widow, left with several small
children, and no provision made by her hus-
band, in case of such an event, is left to her
own resources to battle with the stern realities
of life. Woman, what would be your lot then
if you knew nothing beyond home duties: if
your thoughts, and the reason with which God
has endowed you, had not many times reverted
in other directions.
	Then exercise your God-given intelligence,
and rank side by side with your partner, and 
help him to see and realize that women have
rights and privileges;exert your energies and in-
fluence in and outside the home circle;maintain
your sense of justice and exercise it; go to the
polls and vote for municipal and other officers,
who are to conduct affairs to which you and 
your children are to be subject; have a voice
in whatever concerns your relative welfare and
the welfare of the community in which you
live.
	Can a settlement or nation be built up with-
out the aid of woman? Verily, no; the man
is not without the woman in the Lord, and 
vice versa.
	Away with such narrow-mindedness that
says woman's voice must not be heard except
at home or trying to lead her children. One
of our leading men of to-day taught in my
hearing, if any one needs language to talk 'tis
woman, to teach, guide and counsel her off-
spring, that by her tongue, good actions and
wise example a noble race of men and women
may spring up, that will learn to govern king-
doms.
     Then, woman, strive to gain an intelligent,
patriotic spirit, that you may diffuse the same
through your household, that those going out
therefrom may not be misinformed, or ignorant,
and know nothing but to eat, drink and sleep.
If there are men who do not know your worth
and position before your Maker, show them
that you sense it, and that it is not out of
a woman's line to comprehend the stateof affairs
by which she is governed. Sisters, let us not
lie dormant and see our brethren and sisters
trampled upon, as it were, and insulted by
self-asserted powers and unjust laws. I rejoice
in the spirit and influence of such women as

[Column 2]
assembled at the theatre in Mass Meeting to
pass resolutions and protest against such un-
lawfulness. Jeers aud uncouth remarks should
not deter us from our duty, when we know, by
our God given agency we are right; shall we
stand by as mere blocks, as though we had no
sense or reason in our natures? No, it does
not meet the end sought, for this is a perverse
generation; you will be happy in the thought
and consciousness of having done your part to-
ward ameliorating the wrongs against this peo-
ple. Can any one possessing the Spirit of 
God stand meekly by and their hearts not be
stirred by such indignities? I say no, no! we
may be learning to govern ourselves, and if
our enemies smite us upon one cheek, turn to
them the other also; but may our hearts ever 
beat in unison with the Spirit of God to dictate
us in the affairs of life, is my prayer.
						   M. A. TILL.
Provo.


