A COMPARISON.

	Only a piece of water-soaked wood—yes,
that is all, but shall I tell you what it shows
to me? A morning, dull, cloudy, fierce winds
and fiercer sea; a road, grass-grown and smooth;
a carriage, drawn slowly on, now near the
spray-dashed shore, now lost to sight of sea
and spray, but always with the rude, hoarse
roar of the ocean's voice resounding in our
ears. The place, the Sandwich Isles, which
little mission of easy, happy Saints, has held
more missionaries from dear old Utah than any
other on this big, whole globe, according to its
size.
	That sea—no words could ever tell its match-
less glory, no brush could ever paint its glisten-
ing, rapid, restless grace. How could they
do so, when God it is who speaks to us, weak
finite mortals, through the awful roar, and He
whose finger paints the ever changing hues
and shades on ocean's broad old face.
	The storm had been a furious one, and high
and heavy dashed the surf, and as we rode
along we all were hushed to that slow silence
that falls alike on all who feel themselves so
near to nature's heart-beats. How small, how
infinitely small one weak and puny arm would
be to put between a soul and all eternity in
such a sea! Vast are Thy wonders, O God!
	At last, as mortals do, we broke the spell of
silence and began to talk of all we saw around
us.  The shore was strewn with relics of the
last night's storm. Broken shells and bits of
sponge, with chalky looking corals, and all
along a very network of green and pale pink
sea weeds, and as we wandered on, now pick-
ing up some pretty toy or turning over rub-
bish in search of something rare, my friend
held up to me this rotten piece of wood.  He
brought it, saying it had traveled many a
weary mile on just such waves as now
beat down upon the shore. "'Tis redwood,"
said my friend, "and all the way this tiny chip
has come, from those huge forest trees, that
grow on California's hills." And so I took it;
and as I looked at it, so many curious thoughts
arose unbidden in my mind—how long it had
been cut from off the parent trunk, whose
hand had felled the giant tree, how many
years its glorious crown of green had shaded
some sweet spot of earth.
	Our talk soon flew to other things, and,
after that, we turned our horses homeward.
But in and out of all our chatter, that bit of
wood and its attendant history was dwelling
on my mind. We passed along the road, now
dotted on each side with the natives white-
washed cottages, while here and there a brown
grass hut, that stands among its haouri (civil-
ized) neighbors, with quite an air of low
apology, as if 'twere well ashamed to look
them in the face. And then I thought of that


small block of wood—a fragment from the
parent tree, broke off by some relentless power
and cast, like these poor natives' far away pro-
genitors, from off the parent Nephite stem,
and cast adrift to bear the ocean's moods, and
land at last on these fair, sunny isles, and they,
like it, are soaked and sodden—sodden with
vice and soaked in all the waters of incon-
stancy and lust; and they, like unto it, have
now at last been gathered up by an Almighty
hand, and He is sending here His workmen,
that on them may shed the light of His pure,
Holy Spirit, so drying up the dull waters of
pollution, and with His tools He will mould
and fashion them at last into one of those
clean and chosen vessels, which shall be lifted
up at that last day, saith the Lord God of
Israel!
