MARRIAGE.

	The communication from President Joseph
Smith, with the accompanying affidavit of 
William Clayton, which we publish in this
issue, will be interesting to a large number of
our readers. It will tend to clear up in the
minds of those who are not familiar with the
details of the manifestations of the Prophet


[Column 1]

Joseph Smith on the subject of celestial mar-
riage, some apparent discrepancies which are
perfectly harmonious when correctly under-
stood.
	The revelation on celestial marriage pub-
lished in the Doctrine and Covenants, was
given July 12th, 1843. The principles it con-
tains, with further intelligence on the same
subject, were revealed to the Prophet many
years before, but not formulated in writing for
the Church. Acting under instructions from
the Lord, the Prophet had several wives
sealed to him before the date of that revela-
tion, and they are referred to in verse 52.
There are other matters spoken of in the re-
velation that pertained to the time when it
was written, showing that the statement in
the heading, as it appears in the book, is cor-
rect; namely, that the revelation was given on
that date, although the doctrines it contains
were made known and had been acted upbn
under  special instructions previous to that
date.
	Those opponents of plural marriage who
deny that it was taught and practiced by the
Prophet Joseph, in face of testimony enough
to establish any fact beyond the possibility of
rational contradiction, frequently refer to the
utterances of the leaders of the Church in
Nauvoo against the teachings of certain per-
sons on polygamy; and also the denials and
affidavits, of several ladies concerning poly-
gamy and spiritual infeism.  These statements
are cited as evidence that Joseph and Hyrum
Smith were opposed to plural marriage, and
that it was denied by some of the ladies who
afterwards avowed their own marriage to the
Prophet or his brother Hyrum.
	But examination of the history and the
facts will disclose that there is no real contra-
diction between the alleged conflicting state-
ments, nor between the action of Joseph and
Hyrum in regard to polygamy and the doc-
trines laid down in the revelation of July 12th,
1843. Polygamy, in the ordinary and Asiatic
sense of the term, never was and is not now a
tenet of the Latter-day Saints. That which
Joseph and Hyrum denounced and for preach-
ing which without authority an Elder was cut
off the Church in Nauvoo, was altogether
different to the order of celestial marriage in-
cluding a plurality of wives, which forms the
subject of the revelation.
	So with that spiritual wife doctrine which
lustful men attempted to promulgate at that
period. Joseph the Prophet was just as much
opposed to that false doctrine as any one could
be. It was a counterfeit. The true and di-
vine order is another thing. The errors which
those ladies who signed the affidavits declared
were not known to them as doctrines of the
Church were not, are not, and never will be
part of the creed of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. They were con-
scientious in their statements. Joseph and
Hyrum were consistent in their action against
the false doctrines of polygamy and spiritual
infeism, instigated by the devil and advocated
by men who did not comprehend sound doc-
trine nor the purity of the celestial marriage
which God revealed for the holiest of pur-
poses.
	It has been frequently asserted by the ene-
mies of the Church that President John Tay-
lor, in France, publicly denied that the Church
entertained the doctrine of plural marriage.
Investigation for the purpose of learning facts
will show that he did no such thing. Directly
he denied nothing; indirectly he disputed the
assertion that polygamy and certain infamous
doings were part of the creed of the Church.
In answer to the charges he simply read a sec-
tion of the Doctrine and Covenants relating to
the subject of marriage.
	Until the open enunciation of the doctrine
of celestial marriage by the publication of the
revelation on the subject in 1852, no Elder

[Column 2]

was authorized to announce it to the world.
The Almighty has revealed things on many
occasions which were for His servants and not
for the world. Jesus enjoined His disciples on
several occasions to keep to themselves princi-
ples that He made known to them. And His
injunction, "Cast not your pearls before swine,
lest they trample them under their feet and
turn again and rend you," has become as fa-
miliar as a common proverb. In the rise of
the Church the Lord had occasion to admon-
ish his servants in regard to revelations that
were afterwards permitted to be published:
	"I say unto you, hold your peace until I
shall see fit to make all things known unto
the world concerning this matter."
	"And now I say unto you, keep these things
from going abroad into the world until it is ex-
pedient in me."
	"But a commandment I give unto them that,
they shall not boast themselves of these things,
neither speak of them before the world, for
these things are given unto you for your profit-
and your salvation."—(Doc. & Cov.)
Under these instructions Elders had no
right to promulgate anything but that, which
they were authorized to teach. And when as-
sailed by their enemies and accused of practis-
ing things which were really not countenanced
in the Church, they were justified in denying
those imputations and at the same time avoid-
ing the avowal of such doctrines as were not
yet intended for the world. This course which
they have taken when necessary, by command-
ment, is all the ground which their accusers
have for charging, them with falsehood.
	The doctrine of celestial marriage, including
the plurality of wives, was revealed to Joseph
Smith the Prophet by the same power and
from the same source, as all the other revela-
tions contained in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and they stand or fall together.
The Church was commanded at its inception to
receive the revelations and precepts which God
would manifest through him, and this is one of
them, to the truth of which the heavens have
borne witness at least as much as to the divini-
ty of any others. That Joseph practiced what
he taught and was himself the husband of
several wives in the holy order of celestial
marriage, has been thoroughly authenticated,
and the affidavit of William, Clayton forms
one more strong and important link in a chain
of evidence that is so complete and convincing
as to leave no room for reasonable contro-
versy.
     The world may not receive the glorious doc-
trine of eternal matrimony by which husbands
and wives are made one forever, nor the princi-
ple of plural marriage, which is an essential
part of that doctrine. But those who have
come out of darkness into light, and have
learned how to know the voice of the Good
Shepherd, will see the beauty and divinity of
that comprehensive revelation, and hearken to
the spirit which leads in the way to the con-
tinuation of the lives, wherein are exaltation
and dominion and power in the presence of
God and His Christ throughout the eternal
ages.
	Deseret News, May 20, 1886.


