DEAR AUNT MERCY:

	I need not say that I am always pleased to 
get a letter from you and Mary Jane. At 
first I was thinking of keeping all Mary Jane's
letters in one batch and yours in another, but
on looking it over I find your letters so de-
lightfully mixed that it would be like parting
the Siamese Twins to attempt to separate them,
so I keep them together. I have been just
counting the pages, and I find there are 52
solid pages of reading matter, and as I always
keep them about me I suppose they create a
sphere which instinctively makes me kick at
anything which I may happen to read or hear
against your people. You must not think be-
cause I am silent about it that I fail to read
all the special passages to which you and
cousin direct my attention, whether in the
Book of Mormon or in the Doctrine and
Covenants, but the fact is that my mind is in
just that particular mental state that I cannot
pronounce any definite opinion on them. I 
regret to say that so far failure has attended
my efforts in the direction of putting my
thoughts in some readable form, setting forth
my expressions in connection with my recent
visit to your City, and so I suppose I mu[-]t
give it up as a bad job. As a matter of fac[-]
however, my visit among you has impress[--]
me very favorably as compared with all my
previous notions about your people and be-
lief, and apart from any other consideration.
I am glad that I have had the opportunity of 
remaining for a while in Salt Lake City, as
I have been enabled to use my own eyes and
ears to assist me in forming a judgment as to
what Mormonism really is, and what
kind of people the Mormons are. The
Christian world have made up their minds that
you are all a bad lot, and so that's the end of
it.  Having prejudged your case so emphatic-
ally, it is no wonder that the press studiously 
conceal anything that may happen to be re-
ported in your favor, and no wonder that they
vie with each other in bringing into promi-
nence anything and everything that can possi-
bly be construed as derogatory to your religion,
and thereby pander to the popular prejudice.
     The fact is that there is a great deal about the
Mormon faith that is peculiar, and opposed to
our modern notions of civilization, and which
without sufficient explanation is very apt to
mislead people generally into very wrong con-
clusions.  For instance, the theocratic element 
in your religion lays you open to the charge 
of disloyalty, and I suppose you will admit
that you would all gladly hail the re-establish-
ment of the theocracy  of the olden time
when God was wont to rule his people both in 
temporal as well as in spiritual matters, and
for the matter of that I venture to say that
every sincere Christian, whether Mormon or 
Gentile would rejoice at the advent of Him
of whom it is said that thrones and principali-
ties and dominions are to be made subject to
Him I would be very sorry to say or think
that there was necessarily any disloyalty in in-
dulging in these glorious anticipations. but the
world, blind to spiritual things, is very apt to
associate the expression of such sentiments
with disloyalty,—so it was over 1800 years ago.
and human nature is pretty much the same
now as it was then.  Then again the doctrine
of Plural Marriage is one at which people hold
up their hands in holy horror.  My instincts.


[Column 1]are all in favor of single marriage, but my
short visit to Salt Lake has taught me at least
this one lesson that Mormon polygamy is a
totally different thing from that which is prac-
tised in Eastern countries, with which it is
often confounded, subject as it is to such re-
strictions as must prevent a really immoral
man from entering into it with the sanction of
your Church. There can be no question with
those who sincerely believe the word of God
that it was once [-]ractised with the Divine ap-
proval, but then it is contended that slavery
was likewise a permitted institution, and that 
it is in the order of God's providence that 
both these should be done away with in the
onward progress of society, that in their place
and time they both served a useful purpose,
but that neither of them was intended to be
permanent; and that now society has outgrown
all such conditions. I am not learned enough
to enter into any argument upon this subject,
but I am free to admit that while I was in
your city, I certainly failed to see any of the
terrible effects which the practice of polygamy
is popularly supposed to produce. I
must say that the families which I visited ap-
peared to be very comfortable and happy, and
as far as I could see the greatest harmony
prevailed among them contrary, of course, to
what I was led to expect, as I had been told
that just as inevitably as that 2 and 2 make 4
so polygamy introduces in the family relation-
ship, the element of discord, but judging from
what I saw and heard there was no indication
that this was the case with your people.
	I have had the pleasure of an introduction to
a,few of the "victims" of this terrible evil, but
instead of the ladies observing the prudent
silence which I naturally looked for with re-
gard to this matter, I was surprised to find
that they, one and all expressed themselves
quite unreservedly about it, and in terms of
unqualified approval. The average Gentile,
you know believes that "multiplication is
vexation", but evidently the Mormon is doing
his best to multiply and replenish the waste
places of the earth, and he believes in having
his [-]quiver full of them," and that, too, with
the full concurrence of the Leahs and the
Rachels. It was certainly very novel to me to
hear them style each other "brothers" and
"sisters"; this implies a very close relationship,
and the natural inference is that you feel
something of the same filial affection towards
one another which members of the same family
are supposed to have, and whatever objections
may be urged against your religion this feature
of it is certainly worthy of all praise. Again
I notice that you have the greatest confidence
in the rulers of your Church, believing as you
do that they are guided in the administration
of your affairs by Him who cannot err. Now
I am sure if Christians generally could believe
as you do in this matter they would not only
cease their opposition but gladly enlist them[-]
selves in your ranks, but that is just where
they decidedly differ from you; and in fact do
not hesitate to brand you as a priest ridden
and all that sort of thing. Whatever may be
the truth in regard to this, however, it is clear
to me from the manner in which your rulers
have looked after your temporal interests, that
they are men of remarkable sagacity. In the
first place they could hardly have selected a
more beautiful spot than Salt Lake and its en-
virons, although in the light of recent events
they might have chosen a safer one, but I re-
fer more particularly to the arrangements which
are made to meet the requirements of the emi-
grant, be he poor or otherwise, who perhaps
from a distant land and speaking a different
language comes for the first time to your little
Zion, as apart from the substantial assistance
he may derive from your admirable tithing 
regulations,he receives what to him is of inesti-
mable value the very best advice from men

[Column 2]
competent to give it, as to where and how he
may advantageously locate himself and family,
and is in no danger as men similarly circum-
stanced in the East often are of being defraud-
ed by unprincipled agents. It is further credit-
able to you that you have no paupers among
you, owing, as I understand, to your system of
house to house visitation,whereby the temporal
as well as the spiritual needs of your people
are carefully enquired into and promptly at-
tended to. The fact that industry and economy
are regarded by you as a part of your religion
may also to some extent account for the ab-
sence of this pauper element; of course under
any circumstances it is not to be looked for to
any great extent in a small community like
yours, as compared with more largely popu-
lated cities, but the methods which you adopt
appear to me to be singularly well adapted for
nipping anything of the kind in the bud, and
assuming that you are destined to grow into
a great people, you have only to persist in your
present course, and I do not see how you can
ever be cursed with this evil. It is true that
if you continue to set up what you conceive to
be God's will in opposition to established law
there will be many individual cases of suffer-
ing, but in this matter it appears you are all
pledged to contribute help where help is really
needed. So that after all you are not entirely 
without your good qualities despite the whole-
sale denuncication which is meted out to you
by your enemies,but the fact still remains that
you are Mormons, and that settles the matter
in the eyes of the civilized world. I am sorry
for you, but I suppose it cannot be helped. It
was confidently hoped that Judge Zane would
bring you to your senses, but so far I do not
think he can congratulate himself upon his
success; he was doubtless under the impression
that his pitiless measures would be met with
some sort of compromise on your part, and did
not take into his calculations that what he
wished you to concede was a vital part of
your reliigion.
	And now, dear Aunt, I am sure you will be
tired of this long winded letter, but as I did
not reply to your letter sooner I thought I
would make up for my remissness by sending
you a long epistle.	*	*	*	*	*
			Your affectionate nephew.
