WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DESERET UNIVERSITY.
CHANCELOR O. F. WHITNEY.
The Hon. Board of Regents, the Faculty and
	Students of the University.

	Ladies and Gentlemen—:I confess that I ap-
pear before you in the role of a speech-maker
on this occasion with a great deal of re-
luctance. The task of addressing an audience
like this is one so new and strange to me that
I naturally shrink from the undertaking. I
feel something like a boat loosed from its
moorings and left to drift wherever the winds
and waves list to carry it.
	But while the experience of this occasion is
entirely new to me, the subject upon which I
suppose it is expected I should say something—
that of education—is one that is near and dear
to my heart. Not because I am a practical
educator, or school teacher. for I am not; nor
because of the office which your legislative
representatives have done me the honor to place
upon me. But because I have a deep and
abiding interest in the great cause of human
advancement, and desire to befriend any and
all agencies having that as their object.
	Before me and around me are some of the
educators of the present and the future. Some
whose hairs are silvered with the frosts of com[-]
ing age, who are growing gray in the service
to which they have devoted the best part of
their lives; others, younger in years and ex-
perience, but active and efficient workers in
the tutelary harness; to these it would become
me to say but little. I was a schoolboy under
Dr. Park, as were also several members of the
present Board of Regents. I prefer to address
the burden of my remarks to another class—
those who are pupils still,or teachers who have
only just passed their novitiate, and are stand-
ing on the threshold of their professional
careers.
	If I say that a great future is opening up
before you, I say it not with the tongue of
flattery, but with the solemn voice of friendship.
Whether you become great to correspond with
that future is another thing entirely, and de-
pends largely upon the uses to which you put
the time allotted you, and the talents with
which you are endowed. These may be many
or few, but they are a sacred trust, a steward-
ship, for which an account must some day be
rendered to the Almighty Giver. It is our
duty to ourselves and society to prepare for
the responsiblities which life imposes, and then
discharge them faithfully and fearlessly as
fast as they come before us. You who have
attended to the first part of this requirement—
that of reparation—have done well, thus far.
It remains to be seen how you will perform the
rest.
	As to what constitutes greatness, opinions
may differ. I shall content myself with cit-
ing the definition given by the greatest Teacher
the world has ever seen—Him who “spake as
never man spake,” before or since. Said He:
“Whosoever will be great among you, let him
be your minister, and whosoever will be chief
among you, let him be your servant.” This,
then, is the pathway to glory and success; to
labor for the welfare of others. Greater is he
who serves, than he who is served and this is

[Column 2]
peculiarly the teacher's mission and oppor-
tunity.
	I hope there is no one here—nor do I believe
there is, who imagines himself or herself per-
fectly educated, and that nothing remains to
be acquired after leaving school.  I remember
hearing a child asked by its teacher—the first
one it had ever had—where it had learned its
letters, as it happened to have mastered the
alphabet at home. "I never did learn ’em,”
the little one replied, "I always knowed ’em,”
it being the child’s supposition that nothing
could be learned out of school! I have found
that some older children are imbued with the
same idea. The mind of man can never
cease to learn. At school we only sharpen and
make keen the weapons we are to use in the
great warfare awaiting us.
	But if it were possible, any time, for us to
comprehend within the scope of our narrow in-
tellectuality all human learning, we need not
suppose that even then we should “know it
all.” We live in a progressive age. The
present eclipses in many things the past, but
it is destined itself to be over shadowed by the
future. As we proceed, “Alps on Alps” will
arise to greet us, and the summit of one at-
tainment will only prove the point look out to
heights still unsurmounted. Much of the so-
called science of to-day may be the recognized
folly of to-morrow, and precious truths now
unknown, despised. or covered with the dust
of neglect, will yet be eagerly sought for and
prized as becomes their worth. “Eye hath not
seen, ear hath not heard, nor hath it entered
into the heart of man to conceive”of the sublime
possibilities locked up within the treasure
house of times to come. The sun of education
has scarcely more than dawned, even upon the
wisest minds. The highest hill tops are but
tipped with the golden splendors of its rising.
What do we dwellers in the valley know? The
windows of our minds should be ever open to
admit the sunlight of knowledge. Never let
conceit or bigotry close the shutters and draw
the blinds.
	There is a brighter day dawning, also for
our University. For many days it has been
passing through the narrows, and at times the
clouds have frowned darkly overhead. But it
will yet emerge out upon the broad ocean of
prosperity, where a clear sky and smooth sail-
ing await it. I feel that I but voice the senti-
ments of all who are here, and thousands more,
when I wish the officers, teachers and students
all, continued success, and long life to the
University of Deseret.

