=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XII JANUARY, 1925 

CONTENTS 

Page

The Year Has Gone Eliza R. Snow 1
Portrait of Mrs. Annie D. Palmer 4
Oh, White-Winged Gull Mrs. Annie D. Palmer 5
Portrait of Mrs. Alice Morrill 8
The Pioneer Mother Mrs. Alice Morrill 9
Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government Elder George Albert Smith 11
Spiritual Education Dr. Adam S. Bennion 13
Editorial—The Gospel as a Guide 18
Mother's Milk Clinic 20
The Editor Abroad 22
A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect Year Eunice Iverson Gardner 27
Importance of Diet for the Expectant Mother 31
Women in the Utah Legislature 35
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 38
Guide Lessons for March 44

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine

Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:

5 vols. 1915, leather bound $3.50
2 vols. 1916, leather bound $3.50
2 vols. 1916, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1917, leather bound $3.50
3 vols. 1918, leather bound $3.50
1 vol. 1919, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1919, leather bound $3.50
10 vols. 1920, leather bound $3.50
7 vols. 1921, leather bound $3.50
6 vols. 1922, cloth bound $2.75
5 vols. 1922, leather bound $3.50

15c extra for postage

All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.

Competent Office Help—Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today

L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Day and Evening
SALT LAKE CITY
All the Year

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

PHONE WAS. 3223

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed
Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
64 So. Main
Phone Was. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Magazine Management will pay 20c per copy for the following Magazines:

February, 1924
March, 1924
April, 1924

Please notify office of the number you have on hand before mailing same to us.

NEW GARMENTS

The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.

For Ladies:
No. 1—Flat Weave Light $0.95
No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light $1.25
No. 15—Extra Quality Flat $1.45
No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed $1.50
No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton $1.85
No. 800—Silk Stripe Med. $2.00
No. 850—Imp. Lisle $2.50

For Men:
No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight $1.25
No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality $1.75
No. 925—Med. Light Weight $1.85
No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight $2.25
No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton $2.50
No. 9107—Wool & Cotton $4.00
No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton $4.50

To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.

Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
70 Main St., Salt Lake City

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers
DUTCH CUT

They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
THE YEAR HAS GONE List to that sound—that rolling chime: Hark! 'tis the busy knell of Time:. The year has gone, And borne along The hopes and fears— The smiles and tears Of multitudes unknown to song. The year has gone, and in its train Such scenes of pleasure and of pain As bear us on From Life's first dawn, Thro' flowing deeps— O'er rugged steeps, Until life's glimmering lamp is gone. The year has gone—but mem'ry still The curtain holds with fairy skill: As if to keep 'Old Time asleep, While scenes roll back. Upon their track, And recollection takes a peep. Eliza R. Snow. MRS, ANNIE D. PALMER O WHITE-WINGED GULL Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, Utah, Awarded First Prize the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Thou white-winged gull! When e'er I hear The tale that made thy memory dear, How, when my native state was young, Her future in the balance hung, When Famine, gaunt and grim and keen, With tortuous hand outstretched, was seen, And thy swift mercy saved the day— I bow my head and humbly say: "I thank Thee, Lord. I thank Thee." Thou heaven-sent bird! Could I but heed The mighty voice that bade thee feed Upon the black and sickening swarm That covered pasture, land and farm; That bade thee feed with ravenous haste, And glut thy greedy, wanton taste— Could I but heed its whispers low, This thought were mine to feel and know; "I thank Thee, 'Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, white-winged gull! Could I but feel How much He cares for mortal weal; Wow, when my erring feet would stray, His hand will lead in wisdom's way; And if I faint or if I fall, His ear is quick to heed my call— Could I but learn how much He cares, This were the burden of my prayers: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, heaven-sent bird! Could I but trust, And count life's keenest sorrows just; Could I but bend my selfish will, My Father's purpose to fulfil; Then would He love and succor me Like unto them He fed by thee— If I could only learn to trust, And humbly say, as say I must: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." MRS, ALICE MORRILL THE PIONEER MOTHER By Mrs. Alice Morrill, Tridell, Utah, Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Behold her busy at her task—no thought to turn aside nor shirk; Her faith but dignifies her toil; her hope but sanctifies her work; No thought to falter by the way, nor wish to rest from weary toil; A selfish life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, From out despair, has she not marched—the consummation of her quest, To be the peace and solemn, brooding, stillness of the desert west? The love-lit hour of holy prayer a beacon light of heaven shines, And through the silent hours of night she catches harmonies Divine. And yet within her bare, hard life, nor art nor high-born harmony, The unresponsive desert answers not her mute appeal for sympathy, But dares her try her strength to wrest from his bare breast mere sustenance, In this she turns her heart to God and bows to his, Omnipotence. Then goes afield to glean the heads of wheat left 'mongst the clods, And typifies the purpose, born of old, "Thy God shall be my God!" She gathers up her threads of love, and weaves the fabric of her life; Her aspiration but to be a duteous mother, faithful wife. A limitless expanse of wilderness surrounds her cabin home. The sun glares hot and pitiless by day; by night, the weird winds moan. Deep in her heart she makes a grave; lays there her hope of luxury, And gives her life, a ransom for the generations yet to be. Close folded in her arms, she clasps her scant-clothed child and smiles, As visions of his high estate the stillness of this hour beguiles; Alone, beside the couch of pain, she soothes her sufferer till the dawn. Yet looks above the deep blue vault and glimpses heavenly realms beyond. When death's hand snatches from her breast the babe that brought her soul's relief She clothes him in a common shroud with her own hand, and hides her grief. The cold, pale stars and far, white moon look down from out the upper deep, While lonely hill-crags, rising high, their mighty, silent vigil keep. The damp earth floor, whereon she kneels a shrine of worship comes to be, Her plain, hard fare becomes, to her a sacrament of sancitity. A priestess she, and prophetess, of far off, future, glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold, at last, deep watered by her tears. The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest In this issue of the Magazine are published the results of the second Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest. Forty-six poems were submitted. The judges were Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the' General Board, Prof, Alfred Osmond, head of the English department of the Brigham Young University, at Provo, Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of Salt Lake. Oh, White-Winged Gull, written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, cf Provo, Utah, is awarded first prize. Mrs. Alice Morrill, of Tridell, Utah, receives the second prize for her poem, The Pioneer Mother. Honorable mention is given the following poems, Where is Heaven?; A Question, Endurance, and Mother's Evening Prayer. These poems will be published in the Magazine in due time. Leadership Week Educaton for better home life will be the central theme for the fifth annual Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University commencing January 26, according to an announcement coming from the Extension Division. The week will be conducted along the lines followed. In the past but a number of new departments will be added. Among the new departments are: Interior Decorating; Reading for the Home; Training for Priesthood; Psychology of Childhood; Play Production. Other courses will be as follows: Social Welfare; Community Planning; Vocational Guidance; Scout Leadership; Music; Religious Education; Principles and Methods of Teaching Religion; Pageantry; Genealogy and Temple Work; Farmers Conference; Recreation; Foods and Nutrition; Clothing and to Home Health and Sanitation.

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===
ALL FIT FOR A QUEEN IN LUK-SHU-RI KNIT Telephone or write for illustrated booklet to LOUETTA BROWN 214 Templeton Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions: It was unanimously decided at the October 1923 Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the. Magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, Relief Society Magazine ? No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE Sugar. J BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY?one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. BUY BEET SUGAR Those who are indebted to' the Magazine will kindly mail remittance at once, to Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. To Our Patrons and Friends All those who have not yet subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine, we urge to do so that they may have the full volume for the year 1925. ? The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions.
To Our Patrons and Friends
To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.
Sample: (Address) Relief Society Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
"To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management
A Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' By Mrs. J. Long, When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
GIFT BOOKS for Your Children
Have our juvenile expert suggest 'gift book titles for your boys' and girls' Christmas. Only the literary and the wholesome has place in our Books for Children. Call and look them over or write for free list of titles and prices.
Choose Your Christmas Greeting Cards Here
Deseret Book Company.
Glazier and 'Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair. $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking MAIL ORDERS PREPAID Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85
| 50c per copy. | 44 East on South Temple Eureka, Utah, Box 129. Salt Lake City
All the strength, purity and freshness of the ripe French Olives are sealed in the container bearing the BLUE PINE Label. Widely approved and used for general household and sacred purposes. When you ask for Blue Pine Olive Oil, you are demanding the best.
Other BLUE PINE Products
SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
