[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 15d | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service - The Unstable Family]

LESSON IV
(Fourth Week in March)

Social Service

The Unstable Family

Human experiences of various kinds have the power to shake and uproot even the finest convictions and the most deep-bedded ideals. Frequently, we see individuals who have been thoroughly dependable, who have been as stable as the most steadfast rock, disintegrate and crumble to pieces. The elements in human experience that cause this change from stability to instability often are obscure and difficult to analyze. But it is important to those who are working with individuals and families to attempt to gain an understanding of the experiences and influences that cause this deterioration.

The term unstable as applied to individuals or families cannot be given an exact definition. An unstable family may be one that misfortune, such as sickness, accident, or death, has disrupted, leaving some of the members without the normal family ties. Or it may be one that has been broken by more subtle destroying influences, with the result that one or both of the parents desert or neglect the children, shifting the responsibility of their care to relatives, friends, or public agencies. An unstable family may be one that lives together, but where selfishness and bitterness have broken the real bonds of affection and solidarity. An unstable family can be recognized not entirely by its exterior mode of living but also by its inner life, by the attitude of the members toward one another, by the depth of affection, by the presence or undue selfishness, and by the lack of willingness of each one to shoulder the burdens of the others.

The most obvious manifestations of instability—desertion, divorce, and the neglect of children—often come to the attention of family agencies. The treatment that is usually applied is not very effective. The deserter or the parent who neglects his children can be summoned to court and the state may order him to provide for his family, or it may remove the children from his custody.

While such measures are necessary in extreme cases, the remedy applied does not affect the real problem. Long before desertion or neglect of family responsibilities brings a family to the attention of an agency or results in court charges, the insidious elements that cause family disintegration are at work. In order to understand and treat the disrupted family, it is necessary to know what experiences, circumstances and misfortunes brought about the disruption.

It may be possible, then, with an understanding of the factors that were responsible for the deterioration, to rebuild the family to a level of stability. New habits and more wholesome attitudes must be introduced. The broken family must be given a better understanding of the causes of their failures, and they must be given courage to start the process of reconstruction. It is, of course, more far-sighted to recognize early symptoms and possible causes of family instability and to control as far as possible the circumstances which later would lead to serious difficulties.

One of the most fundamental factors in insuring stability in any given family and thus preventing possible disruption is the ability of young married couples to learn to adjust early to the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood. Where an individual, for example, a man, lives alone he may do largely as he pleases. Upon the entrance of a second individual into his life, such as a woman who becomes his wife, adjustment must begin immediately in order to insure peace. Upon the advent of a third individual, such as a child born to a young couple, further adjustments are necessary on the part of the parents. And, in proportion as the family increases in number, adjustment must take place in the same ratio.

Petty annoyances caused by oversights, small failures, or quick temper can be serious irritants in the family circle. The failure of the breadwinner or the homemaker to fill the rightful expectations of the other, may lead to subsequent unpleasantness. Sickness, either mental or physical, often incapacitates an individual and prevents him from adjusting properly and from meeting his responsibilities as he should. Such conditions should receive careful consideration and attention, and the best treatment possible in order to avoid disastrous results to the family.

In order to insure family tranquility and solidarity, the family as a whole, and individually, must, in addition to adjusting to each other, learn to adjust to circumstances which govern the family, and also to society generally. In the case of loss of property or the temporary loss of position, or even in the case of a death, the members of the family should unitedly adjust to the change and should combine their efforts to replace, as far as possible, the loss and to make the best of the change.

Another important factor in successful family life is proper preparation and training for family life. It is believed that family instability is often the result of lack of training on the part of prospective parents. Young men are often not trained to take the responsibility of providing for a family; indeed, many a young man has previous to his marriage not been able, or has not been required, to support even himself, to say nothing of supporting a wife and children. Young women, on the other hand, are often not trained to keep a home. They have not been taught to bake bread, sew, mend, to say nothing of managing a home and caring for children. It seems to be expected of them that they will instinctively meet these great responsibilities.

Failure on the part of the husband to provide for the family, or failure on the part of the wife to keep up the home and care for children, may result in an unhappy, contentious home life, separation, divorce, or desertion.

A home may not meet with problems of instability until the children mature. Each may then become so engrossed in his own ambitions, or may become so intent on his own pursuit of pleasure that the family as a unit becomes a shaky structure. "A house divided against itself cannot stand." Some families, however, retain their solidarity and strong bonds of kinship although sheltered in different homes or even living in different parts of the globe.

The stability of a family is dependent on a constant satisfactory adjustment among the members. Each individual should have an opportunity for self-development. If, however, the selfish interests of one member interfere with the development of the others, a danger post in the family life has been reached.

Reference: The Normal Life, Edward T. Devine: Family Bonds, page 138: Divorce and Desertion, page 157.

Questions and Problems

1. What are some of the manifestations of an unstable family?
2. What are some of the causes?
3. Discuss a constructive, preventive plan which, in your opinion, would help to insure family solidarity and prevent disruption.
4. Why do women sometimes get discouraged?
5. Why do men sometimes desert their families?
6. Is it a wise policy to permit deserted wives to place children in orphanages?
7. What should be done by a social worker before children are removed from homes because of neglect?