[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Mormon Handicraft]

Mormon Handicraft Shop
Counselor Howells compared the incident of 65 years ago, when a collection of handiwork by Mormon women, sent to the world's fair in Philadelphia, was returned unopened, with the present wide geographical distribution of Mormon handicraft through the medium of the Gift Shop. She commented on the concentration of skills from many lands, brought by converts to the Church, which, combined with American designs and crafts, lend great variety and interest to the stock of the Shop. Emphasis was given to the fact that many incomes are supplemented through the sale of products of home industry at the Shop, and that in some instances the entire family income is derived through this means. Growth during the past year was evident from the fact that there were more visitors at the Shop, more articles were received and sold, more individuals received incomes from this source, and more individuals, wards, and stakes subscribed for membership in the Shop.
Temple-Burial Clothing
Counselor Howells reviewed the history of the General Board's temple and burial clothing department, which was established about thirty years ago by direction of the General Authorities of the Church, for the purpose of properly preparing temple clothing. Because of reports that temple-burial clothing is sometimes improperly placed on bodies, that articles of clothing are not always made according to authorized patterns, and that the clothing is publicly exhibited in some establishments, Relief Society presidents are requested to give general supervision in their communities with respect to temple clothing which is either made or kept in stock locally, and with respect to the dressing of women in temple-burial clothing. The Relief Society stake board may appoint a responsible woman to see that clothing is properly made and placed before burial; Priesthood authorities will doubtless arrange for a like service with respect to placing temple-burial clothing for men. All stake and mission Relief Society presidents recently received a new supply of mimeographed instructions on "Suggestions for Making Temple Burial Clothing," and "Directions for Clothing the Dead Who Have Received Their Endowments."
Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
Sunshine Workers
The General Board recommends that no additional "sunshine workers" be appointed in ward and stake Relief Societies. Wherever such workers are now functioning, they need not be relieved of this assignment at once, but it is recommended that, as soon as opportunity arises, this work be gradually transferred to the visiting teachers, inasmuch as it seems to be a logical extension of their present assignment.
One Class Leader for Each Department
The General Board recommends that only one class leader be appointed for each of the Relief Society educational departments. It is felt that the handling of this assignment alone will not over-burden any class leader now that the educational year has been reduced to eight months. Wherever a class leader is unable to conduct her class, it is her responsibility to arrange for someone to carry forward her work during the class period.
Women Urged to Get Out of Debt
Counselor Sorensen urged the women to heed the admonition of the Authorities of the Church to get out of debt. At present it would appear that there will be a period of prosperity in connection with the defense program, and it was suggested that families rid themselves of the burden of debt during this period. Women can assist their husbands in this matter by a curtailment of their own wants and by a wiser expenditure of money.
Relief Society Magazine Department
Achievement Recognition
Counselor Marcia K. Howells expressed the appreciation of the General Board for the service given by all representatives of the Relief Society Magazine. Because of their outstanding work last year, fourteen pages of the Magazine were required for the honor roll in recognition of the 519 wards and branches with subscriptions equal to 75 percent or more of their Relief Society membership. As a personal award for their services, 258
Magazine representatives received a year's subscription to the Magazine at the close of the 1940 subscription campaign. The honor roll is divided into three classifications, according to the number of Relief Society members enrolled in the various wards or branches. The four Magazine representatives who obtained the highest percentages in each classification were especially congratulated at this session, and those in attendance were introduced to the audience. (See honor roll published in the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940, pages 859 to 872, for names of the twelve representatives—four at the head of each classification—and their respective wards and stakes, who were recognized at the April general conference.)
Instructions for Relief Society Magazine Representatives Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Change in Time of Magazine Campaign
The General Board decided, at its meeting of March 26, 1941, to extend to stakes and missions the opportunity of conducting the intensive one-month campaign in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine at any time during the year which is most convenient and timely for them, rather than to require a simultaneous campaign during the one-month period ending October 15, as formerly. It is expected that stake and ward Magazine representatives will continue to distribute their work throughout the year, insofar as possible, that each stake will conduct an intensive one-month campaign at the time most suited to its local conditions, and that the time of the intensive effort be uniform for all wards in the stake.
Change in Time of Annual Subscription Report
Irrespective of the time of year when the intensive campaign is conducted, the annual Magazine subscription report will hereafter cover the calendar year, ending December 31, rather than the former Magazine subscription year ending October 15. Except for the difference in the period covered, the report forms will be the same as those used for 1940, and the objective—a subscription list equal to the number of enrolled Relief Society members—will remain the same. The ward subscription report, covering the calendar year ending December 31, will be required to reach the stake Magazine representative by the following January 5; the stake subscription report will be required to reach the office of the Relief Society Magazine not later than January 15. The honor roll of stakes and missions, heretofore published annually in the December issue of the Relief Society Magazine in recognition of those Relief Societies and their Magazine representatives reporting a subscription list equal to 75 percent or more of their total Relief Society membership, will hereafter be published in the March issue of the Magazine. Because of the changed time of subscription reports, which is to become effective this year, the annual subscription report for 1941 will necessarily cover not only the entire calendar year of 1941, but also the latter part of the year 1940, in order to include all subscriptions entered since the 1940
Magazine subscription report was submitted, ending October 15, 1940. Accordingly, the 1941 report will cover the period beginning October 15, 1940, and ending December 31, 1941.
Changes to be Noted in Printed Bulletin of Information
Stake and ward Magazine representatives are requested to make note of these changes in their printed Bulletin of Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives; stake representatives may also attach to their own reference copy of the printed bulletin the mimeographed summary of instructions given at the April general conference of Relief Society.
Expiration Service to Individual Subscribers
All subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine which began with the issue for July, 1940, or later, now have the month of expiration designated in connection with name and address of the subscriber appearing on the Magazine. Example: Mrs, Magazine Subscriber, 1842
Relief Society St., Our Town, Everywhere. 96-3
Dec. (The numerals are code references to stake and ward in which subscriber lives—only the designation of the month relates to expiration.) Magazine representatives are requested to explain this service to subscribers, so that they will know how to tell when their subscriptions will expire. It is suggested that Magazine representatives make it a point to refer to the subscriber's Magazine when entering a renewal, in order to be sure that the renewal subscription begins with the correct month, and in order to be sure that the name in which the subscription is entered is the same as that now appearing on the Magazine.
Expiration Service for Magazine Representatives
Beginning with the subscriptions which expire with the issue for June, 1941, and continuing thereafter, Magazine representatives will be notified of expiring subscriptions in their respective stakes and wards by means of the following procedure: The stake Magazine representative will receive each month a group of slips covering all expiring subscriptions for the month. On each of these slips will be reproduced the address label. These slips will be sorted into groups and designated according to the wards in which the subscribers live, so that the stake Magazine representative can distribute to the ward representative, each month, slips giving information as to the expiring subscriptions in their respective wards. It is believed that this service will be a convenience to ward Magazine representatives in securing renewals. It may also be advisable for the stake Magazine representative to make note of the number of such expiration slips delivered to each of the wards, and to obtain later a report of the number for which the ward Magazine representative was able to obtain renewals.
Magazine Supplies to be Sent only on Request
Hereafter, Magazine supplies (receipt books, order forms, business-reply envelopes) will be sent only on request. The change permitting each stake to choose the time for its one-month intensive campaign makes it necessary for each stake to order its main supply for the year prior to the particular month of its intensive effort. Magazine representatives should always keep on hand a supply of the necessary receipt books, order forms, and business-reply envelopes, but these supplies should be used only for the purpose intended. Stake Magazine representatives are requested to follow up, whenever there is a change in ward Magazine representatives, to see that supplies on hand are turned over to the incoming representative, and to see that incoming ward representatives are supplied with a copy of the printed "Bulletin of Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives."
Deductions from Remittances
Since business-reply envelopes have been made available to all Magazine representatives for transmittal of subscriptions to the Magazine Office, deduction for postage from subscription payments enclosed with subscription orders is not allowable, except for foreign postage. Deductions for money-order or check fees are permissible. The Magazine office cannot assume losses which may occur in connection with remittances in the form of currency.
Complaints and Adjustments
The Magazine office will replace, if possible, any Magazines which are not received by subscribers, provided non-delivery to the subscriber is due to a mistake in the office of the Magazine, as, for example, if the Magazine office should send the Magazine to an address other than that submitted with the subscription, or if the Magazine office fails to enter a subscription which has actually reached the office. In those instances where amends cannot be made by supplying the missing numbers because, in the meantime, the supply of such numbers has been exhausted, amends will be made by extending the subscriber's subscription for a corresponding number of months. In all instances where nonreceipt of the Magazine does not appear to be the fault of the Magazine office, no adjustment will be made. If, for example, a subscriber does not receive the Magazine because of failure to notify the Magazine Office of change of address, or because the address entered with the subscription was incomplete, or the name inaccurate, the Magazine office does not feel obligated to make adjustments. In order to reduce to a minimum the complaints and dissatisfaction of subscribers, Relief Society Magazine representatives are urged to be sure to enter complete and correct names and addresses when submitting Magazine subscriptions, and to notify the Magazine office immediately of any complaints or instances of non-delivery of the Magazine. Carelessness of the Magazine representative in these respects, and the resulting inconvenience and dissatisfaction to subscribers, may cause the loss of subscriptions. Do not use the subscription order form when sending a complaint or other communication to the Magazine office; use ordinary correspondence or business-size letter paper, or a postcard.
Directing Magazine Activities Through The Union Meeting Leone G. Layton Counselor, Wells Stake Relief Society
The most important part of the work of a stake Magazine representative is, in my opinion, to help ward Magazine workers to be truly Relief Society Magazine representatives. It is just as important for Magazine representatives to be familiar with all phases of Relief Society work as for any other officer.
They should know the objectives of the Society, its history, its accomplishments, the reasons for future hopes, why we are desirous of greater membership, the reasons for visiting teaching—in short, they should truly be representative Relief Society women.
They should value their calling and see in it the great possibilities of missionary work for the Society and their Church.
They must have a sincere desire in their hearts to let their sisters know of the opportunities and development that await them.
Wells stake is the largest in the Church in membership. We have ten large wards, and so our representatives have to secure a large number of subscriptions. However, we try not to think of percentages, except as a measuring stick to see how many of our sisters we are reaching. Our desire is to let every woman in our stake have the "Voice of Relief Society" in her home. We feel that any home is a better place to live if it has the influence that our Magazine brings. In my work in Relief Society, I have yet to meet a sister who does not want to fully measure up to the requirements of her calling. Our problem as stake leaders is to be effective enough in our work to help her to measure up to her desires. Naturally, we can be of greatest assistance to Magazine representatives through our union meeting work. The first Magazine meeting held at the beginning of this season's intensive drive was in the home of one of the stake Relief Society executives, and was social in nature. We invited the ward executive officer in charge of Magazine work (this was in most instances a counselor) and the Magazine representative of each ward. It is just as important for executive officers to have a vision of the Magazine work as it is for the representatives.
Because the meeting was social in nature, there was a friendly spirit; the new workers became acquainted easily and a fine enthusiasm was felt. At this meeting, the sisters were given an opportunity to really get acquainted with the Magazine—to see it in a new light.
Study of the Magazine showed them that each issue is so planned that the needs of our sisters all over the world may be met, and that all may feel the unity in our organization. The Magazine must remember our sisters in Africa, Australia, Asia, Europe, the islands of the sea, the countries of South America, Alaska, Canada and Mexico, as well as those living in all parts of the United States. All are one in the Gospel. We carefully analyzed the latest issue of the Magazine. Its theme was pointed out, and attention was called to the relationship between the cover picture and content; articles and stories were evaluated, and their appropriateness for the issue was revealed. The sisters were advised that each issue is similarly planned, and they were encouraged to carefully analyze each one in order that they might properly interpret it to others.
This study of the Magazine made the women feel that they really knew it; what really counted, they were converted to its worth. At the close of this first meeting, every sister was asked to express her feeling toward the work, and a very inspirational "Magazine testimony meeting" was held.
There was no necessity for constant check-up during the campaign. The sisters were told that, knowing how busy they were, we would not bother them with calls, but we would welcome calls from them as progress was made.
Knowing how sincere was our interest, they kept us informed at frequent intervals. The final reports came in promptly and accurately. At the second union meeting, held after the campaign, we discussed our progress. We decided that as our objective was, after all, not merely numbers of subscriptions, but the "Voice of Relief Society" in every home, our real work was facing us. It was not enough to make sure that the Magazine was in every home, but we must see that it benefited the subscriber to the fullest extent. How could this be accomplished? It was suggested that inasmuch as ward executives set forth the policies and standards of Relief Society in their wards, we might, as unobtrusively as possible, begin by helping these busy women to get full benefit from our Magazine.
Then we could reach out further. We planned to do this in some such way as the following: "Have you read the article on the Constitution this month?" If they had not, we would try to interest them in it.
Whenever the sisters see the Magazine representative, we want them to think of the Magazine, not in terms of, "She'll ask me to subscribe for it," but rather, "She has something interesting to tell me." The third union meeting was spent in furthering our plans to represent the Magazine adequately. Of course, we have all encountered women who say they simply have no time for reading. We prepared to break down their defense.
Articles on reading were studied, such as, the value of reading, what our reading should do for us, how we might cultivate the reading habit, what constitutes correct reading habits for children in the home, what type of magazines we should put before our young people, how time for reading might be programmed.
Suggestions were made for followup work on subscriptions; for example, we recommended that a slip of paper be given out at the door on Relief Society day, asking such questions as, "Are you preparing to renew your subscription?" or "Have you read such-and-such an article this month?" It might contain a simple statement, such as, "Be a friend to your neighbor—tell her of the Relief Society Magazine." The value of the Magazine to particular groups was the topic for discussion at the fourth union meeting—the value to the ward president, the value to visiting teachers, the value to enlistment workers, et cetera. Then, we discussed the comparative value to the ward organization of a Magazine representative who, in reality, adequately represented the Magazine, and one who was merely a "subscription-getter." We decided that the work of the Magazine representative was as great or as small as she chose to make it; that the Magazine was largely dependent on its interpreters, and representatives should study that they might interpret better and thus help build our organization. In evaluating the Magazine, a magazine menu entitled, "Balanced Rations for a Periodical 'Table,' from the book, What Shall I Read, was placed in the hand of each woman. The menu included the types of magazines considered necessary to a well-balanced diet. The following are some of the interesting listings: Grace before Meat—Religious Magazines; Soup—Picture Magazines; Roasts—Quality Magazines; et cetera. If our Magazine were completely meeting the needs of its readers, then through the year it would contain some of each kind of "food" indicated in this menu. We checked our Magazine against the listing. It was a great satisfaction to find that the quality and variety of content in our own Magazine measured up to what is considered necessary to a wholesome, well-balanced, magazine-reading diet. We went from that discussion very proud to be Relief Society Magazine representatives.
Although we regard our program as year-round, our last union meeting of the season of necessity was a preparation meeting for the next fall's intensive work, inasmuch as we hold our one-month intensive campaign in the fall. At this union meeting, each representative prepared a concise report of her accomplishments, and hopes. We checked up on ourselves to see if we were by any chance still "subscription-getters," or if we had in reality become ward officers. We evaluated our work to see if we had accomplished our objectives in interpreting a reading program and if our sisters were feeling our friendly interest in them.