[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Centennial]
Centennial Department Pageants Nellie O. Parker Relief Society General Board Member THE Relief Society centennial calls for a very impressive and delightful observance. A beautiful pageant, carefully planned and effectively staged, is one appropriate means of commemorating this great once-in-a-lifetime occasion. The pageant, in which action is carried on by groups rather than individuals, is a very valuable means of awakening community interest and spirit, and it offers many opportunities for friendly cooperation. It can crystallize sentiment and foster ideals. Through the medium of both the eye and the ear, the emotions are stirred, the soul is uplifted, and one receives a rich, spiritual experience. The pageant probably originated with the old mystery plays which were enacted on platforms drawn along the street. Modern pageantry, however, is more than a mere spectacle. It is dramatic in construction, and consists of scenes or episodes directly bearing on a historical, educational, social or allegorical theme treated from an aesthetic standpoint. A true pageant is beautiful and artistic. According to Linwood Taft, a collection of historical scenes is not really a pageant unless each contributes to the upbuilding of the general theme and moves toward a climax. He says the episodes or scenes should be gems strung together on a golden thread of plot or continuity. The pageant may employ speech, pantomime, dancing, marching, music, singing and colorful pictures. The effectiveness of the presented picture will depend on the vividness of the episodes—the grouping and massing of color, the costumes, stage and lighting effects, the quality of the speeches and dialogues, the beauty of the dancing and the appeal of the music. There should be proper balance and blending of all the arts employed—music, drama, poetry, color harmony in costumes, and stage pictures. Each must contribute to the theme. No one art should be overworked; for example, there should not be too much reading, dancing, singing, et cetera. "The costuming and its coloring," says Nina Lamkin, "constitute one of the most important parts of the pageant." The director of costumes should be familiar with a wide range of colors and materials to avoid monotony and secure harmony and beauty in the pictures. An understanding of fabrics is necessary—silk reflects light, wool gives soft tones, while cotton absorbs light. White satin, when decorated with aniline dyes, makes elaborate costumes. Turkish toweling treated to a coat of aluminum paint makes a good coat of mail. A pageant should attract rather than repel; a poor pageant defeats its own purpose. As the pageant has recognized dramatic and artistic form, there are rules governing its writing and production. (See "Pageantry," by J. Karl Wood, published in the January, 1941, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 26.)
Other Possibilities for Our Centennial Programs Anna B. Hart
Relief Society General Board Member
PROBABLY never before have Relief Society women in all stakes worked more definitely, more purposefully, more cooperatively, and more zestfully, than at present. Relief Society women in all stakes are striving to know more of a century in all its moods and accomplishments. From the oldest stake to the newest, from the most densely populated to the most scattered, all stakes are planning an observance on March 17, 1942. What a privilege it will be to work during the hundredth year. The pageant, one of the most widely selected means for observance, has already been treated. Now I will suggest other possibilities.
Organization
First, let us consider organization. The centennial observance should be a great leadership project. It should be so great that it touches every woman. The material should be chosen wisely. Getting material involves time and research. If research committees were organized early and would spend a few hours a week, what an enormous amount could be accomplished. An attempt should be made to obtain cooperation with all groups who have information and interest in this great project. We should become acquainted with the research projects of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers; we should get clubs and other organizations interested, as well as our business houses. We should get all women working on one committee or another. We should seek cooperation from our families and the other great organizations of our Church, and always seek guidance from those who hold God's Priesthood. Many ways will be used to stimulate interest in this huge observance. Some stakes will organize and sponsor contests in pageant-writing, in song-writing and poetry-writing. Others will gather authentic Relief Society stories. You have been given today a mimeographed copy of an authentic story, which is a sample of a type of story dealing with typical Relief Society projects and Relief Society members, such as the centennial committee hopes the local organizations will collect for use in their centennial observances. This story which you have, might be an inspiration to all of us to find stories of Relief Society in our own locality. We should catalogue pieces of information obtained from our observation and reading. A newspaper clipping, for example, often becomes very valuable.
Approaches to Learning
Second, let us consider approaches to the learning of a given thing:
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
(1) Studying the thing itself. We all agree that if we could have every experience firsthand, if we could see all places and become acquainted with all through actual living, other search would not be necessary. Most of our experiences are limited, and our life span is not a century. So after we have exhausted our knowledge here, we attempt other approaches.
(2) Studying a picture or representation of the thing. It will be necessary for all to choose wisely from the past. It will be necessary to choose methods just as wisely. The commercial world discovered long ago that one of the most effective and universal means of appeal is through pictures, charts, diagrams, posters, slogans, placards, et cetera. The number of visual and auditory aids has increased tremendously in recent years as new developments have opened up greater possibilities for their use. Within the last few years, new forms have appeared. Among these are the motion picture, radio, phonograph, museum, lantern slides, film strip, opaque projector, and sound slide film. Visual aids will be used by the stakes in many of their programs. Where there is a public address system, it can be very helpful at the centennial observance: voices can be projected and much can be done effectively without the need of costumes. The exposure of a picture for a few seconds will often produce more accurate and more vivid images than will a verbal description involving several minutes of talk. March 17, 1942, will be a time of exhibits with unlimited possibilities. One stake will exhibit a "Still Parade" of miniature floats suggesting some of the Relief Society activities of the century, such as, westward trek, wheat, maternity, welfare, et cetera. The parade will be stationary, and the crowds will do the moving. There will be exhibits of the educational work of Relief Society through the century. Costumes of a hundred years will come to light, and they will be displayed attractively. The choicest of art needlework of the past span will be shown—quilts with intricate designs and the finest of stitches, handwoven material, hooked rugs, and even old furniture will remind us of the industry of Relief Society women. Other types of creative work of Relief Society women would add color and culture in the form of painting, etching, wood carving, and sculpture. There will also be on exhibit completed centennial arches that will be a credit to many a ward and stake. One of the spots in the exhibit room, where we would enjoy lingering longest, might be a Relief Society picture gallery—a gallery of portraits. How fascinating could be such an exhibit, properly labeled. Many dramatizations, and dramatic forms, will be represented in tableau or represented life situations. The stage setting, costume, lighting, and mechanical effects will be sufficiently effective to create the necessary illusion as to place and character.
(3) Being told about it. What a wealth of material can be given to us from the older Relief Society women in our communities, who have seen many years of the century. Their sons and daughters can also give much valuable information.
(4) Reading about it. Copies of the Relief Society Magazine and the Woman's Exponent are precious. Each article has a background that if known could enrich our knowledge greatly and be stimulating for centennial programs. What a valuable Handbook we own in our Relief Society. Old roll books and minute books should offer us much material. What intimate glimpses of character we can often get from a letter or diary. Always the true life stories which can be found through reading stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. How many stories must have been retold at rag-bees and quiltings. We can read about them, and they can stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. As Daniel Webster once said, "We live in the past by a knowledge of its history, and in the future by hope and anticipation...." So again we live the lives which our ancestors lived, endure in part what they endured, and "partake in the rewards which they enjoyed." One stake is planning to obtain a plot of ground and plant trees in memory of Relief Society women. Many stakes are planning booklets. Some suggest membership scrapbooks with pictures and life sketches of all present members. Others suggest historic scrapbooks. Many centennial books of remembrance will be made. The members of one stake are planning to make a Relief Society cook book compiled from recipes submitted by members. There will be 1942 souvenirs for all members of many stakes. Many beautification projects have been suggested—centennial flower shows, home-betterment projects, more attractive gardens. Many will find hidden beauty or make the commonplace have a different glow.
Observance
