[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Membership]
membership statistics of all stakes and missions.
There has been no change whatever in the announced goal of a Church-wide increase of 25,000 members during the four-year period ending December 31, 1941, in order to bring the total membership to 100,000 members by 1942. 'The task of enrolling the additional members has simply been reapportioned among the stakes and missions so that each district is assigned a like proportion of its eligible women as its individual goal. In order to reach our goal by the end of this year, an increase Of 9,000 members is re- 295 quired, and there are approximately 86,000 unenrolled women from which they may be enlisted. I call your attention especially to a little article in the Magazine for March, 1941, page 159, entitled, "Are You Enrolled As A Member Of Relief Society?"
When members move away from a ward, officers should urge them to affiliate in the new ward in which they locate. Annual Dues I am wondering if we do enough follow-up work in the matter of annual dues. Let us not hesitate to remind any member regarding her dues. I was talking with a woman the other day who works and who can not attend meetings. She was surprised to learn from the secretary that she had not paid her dues. All she needed, she said, was a reminder. I am wondering, also, if we are giving a membership card as a receipt for individual dues. Iam very proud to carry my card in my handbag. Work-and-Business Meetings It is reported that a few wards, on work-and-business day, still prefer to carry on sewing activities while the short topic is being presented, instead of concentrating entirely on the subject at hand. It is the desire of the General Board that handwork be dispensed with during the formal topic presentation, which should cover approximately fifteen minutes.
This shows proper respect to the teacher. At the close of the lesson presentation and during the informal discussion, there is no objection to handwork going forward, 296 In designating the ward leaders on work-and-business day, it is suggested that the one directing the work be known as "work leader," and the one directing the discussion be known as "home topic leader." Class Leaders and Lesson Work In the blue bulletin for November, 1940, it was recommended by the General Board that all lessons be given on the published dates for their presentation; and that if a ward class leader finds it impossible to give her lesson on the proper date, she should secure a substitute to take her place, well in advance of the day.
This not only makes for the desired uniformity throughout the organization, but it enables stake officers and board members and other visitors and invited guests to know in advance when lessons are to be given in which they are especially interested, and it helps them to plan their visits accordingly. It was also urged that ward class leaders take an interest in the whole educational program, not only in the meetings where they are to conduct lessons, and that they participate in all class activity.
