HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon. Now earth in flowered loveliness holds sway, And spreads her brilliant treasures o'er life's great highway MISS ANNA JARVIS, of Philadelphia, sent a note to a friend to spend a day with her. The day was April 10, 1907, which was the anniversary of her mother's death.
During the visit, Miss Jarvis conceived the idea of making a day—the second Sunday in May—a universal holiday honoring "the best mother in the world—your mother," the observance to be the wearing of a white carnation.
During the year of her untiring labor, through letters and public talks, she never contemplated the thought that the day would in any way be commercialized, and always held herself to the simple custom of giving and wearing flowers. Memorial Day, the other holiday in the month of May, is also a day of remembrance with flowers, sacred and solemn.
Would that this year it might bring peace! HELEN WILLIAMS, I termed "Cattle Queen of Nevada," and only woman member of the Nevada State legislature, was considered one of the most efficient members of the assembly. Miss EMELINE YOUNG WELLS, prominent in civic and Church work, who died recently, was curator and guide in the relic hall at the Utah State Capitol for thirty years. For her remarkable service, the Daughters of Utah Pioneers dedicated a city rose garden in her honor. Beautiful Annie Low Rich, Page 352 of Ogden, leader in social and cultural activities, Elizabeth Cannon Giauque, specialist in home economics and catering, Jeanette Sharp Lenroot, of Tooele, and Mary Ray, of Fillmore, were among a group of notable Utah women who died this spring. EDITH NOURSE ROGERS, of Massachusetts, has introduced a bill in Congress to grant women army status in the War Department, placing them in arsenal work under civil service. FAY LUCILLA COX, world's champion woman parachutist, has been assigned to inspect and train air corps cadets at the Rankin Aeronautical Academy at Tulare, California. LADY NANCY ASTOR, who is Mayor of Plymouth—an English town which suffered a recent air raid —is now in trouble with the laborite leader because she raises flowers on her estate instead of vegetables. HYLLIS BENTLEY is "spinning tales" in America on her book, "What is Happening in England now." Ellen Glasgow's, "In This Our Life," Phyllis Bottome's, "Mansion House of Liberty," and Vicky Baum's, "The Ship and the Shore," are late novels with a war background written by women. Anne Jarvis, a Utah girl, has just issued a volume of original poems.