FLOWERS.

	GOOD, THE more communicated more
abundant grows.

	TRUTHS LIE scattered broadcast through
the ages, waiting eyes to see them.

	AFTER ALL, what we make out of life
depends upon how we communicate with
life.

	GRATITUDE is the throwing out of our
hearts in the light of another's kindness.—
H. W. Beecher.

	IT IS a great mistake to set up our stand-
ard of right and excellence, and judge peo-
ple accordingly.

	IT IS always safe to learn, even from our
enemies; seldom safe to venture to instruct,
even our friends.

	THE HISTORY of civilization may be sum-
marized in nine words: the more one knows,
the more one can perform.

	HOW INDESTRUTABLY the good grows
and propagates itself, even among the
weedy entanglements of evil.—Carlyle.

	THREE QUESTIONS to be put to ourselves
before speaking ill of any man:—First, is it
true? Second, is it right? Third, is it nec-
essary?

	THEN, SAID his Lordship, "Well, God
mend all!" "Nay, Donald, we must help
Him to mend it!" said the other.—Rush-
worth.

	THE TRUE glory of a nation is the full
recognition of the rights of its working
people. They are the basis of all its wealth
and prosperity.

	THERE IS no man's mind of so discordant
and jarring a temper, to which a tunable
disposition may not strike a harmony.—Sir
Thomas Browne.

	NO GOOD that the humblest of us has
wrought ever dies. There is one long, un-
erring memory in the universe, out of which
nothing good ever fades.

	CONSCIENCE IS a great ledger book, in
which all our offences are written and reg-
istered, and which time reveals to the sense
and feeling of the offender.—Burton.

	USEFUL INDUSTRY does not so much con-
sist in being continually busy as in doing
promptly those things which are of the first
importance, and will eventually prove most
profitable.

	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.

	THE ACTION of the soul is oftener in that
which is felt and left unsaid, than in that
which is said in any conversation. It broods
over every society, and men unconsciously
seek for it in each other.—Emerson.

	THE KING, in reality, is well served;
neither life nor fortune is considered when
his pleasure is the question. If we were as
well disposed toward God, we should be
saints indeed.—Madam de Sevigne.

	THERE IS no doubt of the essential nobil-
ity of that man who pours into his life the
honest vigor of his toil, over those who
compose the feathery foam of fashion that
sweeps along Broadway; and who ignoring
the family history, paint coats-of-arms to
cover up the leather of their grandfathers.
—Chapin.


