	MOUNT PLEASANT, NOV. 16th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters of the 11th Ward Retrench-
	ment Society:—
	With pleasure will memory ever recall
your dear names, and bright, happy faces:—
And our sacred associations in singing, pray-
ing and exchanging ideas, are cherished as
the sweetest and holiest reminiscences of
my life. O! would that I could ever feel
that heavenly influence that I have so often
experienced, when surrounded by you my
beloved sisters! How often have I felt the
presence of angels—and most truly do I be-
lieve they lingered near, rejoicing in the
words of the humblest child who endeavor-
ed to raise her voice in the cause of Re-
trenchment.
	Since being deprived of the great privi-
lege of joining you in these meetings, I
have frequently desired to write you a few
of my ideas of life, and the numerous duties
connected therewith. Earnestly desiring
to be inspired and dictated by the Spirit of
Truth, I give you the following thoughts,
hoping they may prove beneficial to you.
Often do I reflect upon the mission of wo-
man; and of the great opportunities afford-
ed us in these Societies, of preparing our-
selves for the great work of life. To me, it
seems more adapted to this purpose than
any other organization upon the earth; for
in addition to the natural capabilities of
women, we have the spirit of revelation to
aid us. If we lived up to our privileges,
how wise would be the women of Utah!
Though sad is the fact, it is too true that
very many of this people are careless and
negligent in regard to religious matters.
The young do not seem to realize the ne-
cessity of preparation for future usefulness.
Momentary pleasures occupy more time and
thought than do the stern realities of life.
But if woman ever fills the holy, sacred
station designed by the great Author of her
being, it is by looking life bravely in the
face, reflecting upon her duties, and by care-
ful preparation for those duties. Then let
us reflect upon what it is the desire of every
true woman to accomplish—to live a noble
life of usefulness. Oh! may we never let
an opportunity pass of doing good, for every
kind word, every kind act will be as dia-
mond stars in our crowns. Our merciful
Father desires his children to assist and
bless each other; and though we may con-
stantly impart our knowledge, our wisdom,
our kindness and love to others, the foun-
tains will be still undiminished; and these
virtues, by being used to the glory of God,
and the benefit of his children, will become
the brighter, the more potent, and power-
ful; and our hearts will abound with joy and
peace. "Then let our lights shine." By
keeping the Spirit of the Lord we will have
light, cheerful hearts; and how glorious is
the influence of such spirits in the home cir-
cle. Here I deem is woman's true field of
labor. To our parents, how much we are
indebted for all their loving kindness; but
all the return they crave for years of con-
stant, unselfish love, is our gratitude and
obedience. Then should we not freely give
these? And more—by our gentle love,
should we not seek to comfort and cheer
their declining years? And much, indeed,
can we assist them by our influence and ex-
ample in governing the younger brothers
and sisters of the family. In this, her first
home, woman's power of usefulness is very
great, in performing the duties she owes her
parents, brothers and sisters. If her respon-
sibilities are great in this era of her life,
how much are they increased when she as-

[Column 2]
sumes the sacred position of wife and of
mother! Would it were in my power to
impress upon your minds the necessity, as I
feel it now, of preparation for these most
important offices in life. Study, reflect upon
these things! Seek to develop the faculties
of your minds, and improve well your time
in gaining useful knowledge; and especially
seek to understand the principles of the gos-
pel. Cultivate the love of truth and right-
eousness, and God will bless you and give
you His Spirit to aid and guide you aright.
	That you may each one have long life,
health and strength and power to overcome
all evil, and gain eternal life in the King-
dom of Heaven is the prayer of your friend
and sister, who desires your good will, your
faith and prayers. 		ELLIS R. SHIPP.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
		LANGUAGE.
	When there are so many pleasant and ex-
pressive words and phrases in the English
language, it seems a pity that any one should
be foolish enough to make use of slang
phrases, and vulgar words. Especially is
this manner of speech unbecoming and un-
dignified when proceeding from the lips of
young ladies. Yet I regret to say, that even
here among the daughters of the Latter-day
Saints, it is becoming far too prevalent. I
am sure that young ladies who indulge in
the use of slang talk, cannot realize how it
grates upon the ear of a refined and well
educated person, or they would never suffer
themselves to speak any such unnecessary
words.
	How it sounds to hear a young lady answer
a question with “Not much!" or “Not for
Joe!” or remark if a statement is made,“Oh
that's too thin!” I think if the origin of
such low phrases was known to all the girls
they would never be spoken by any of them.
But even were there nothing worse attached
to them,(as the following in a measure after
the fashions of the base and ignorant,) such
expressions give evidence of bad taste and a
want of proper culture. Let them not be
known among the children of Zion—with
the teachings and examples we now have,
we should be above anything that could be
counted unworthy of the best societies.
							NELL.


