EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE DEATH of the baby violinist, who
has been performing at the Boston Theatre,
has been recently announced. It will be
remembered that he visited this city some
months since. Not yet seven years old, he
had been before the public for more than
three years. There is nothing wonderful
in the fact that one so early trained to life
before the footlights, should pass away so
soon; but there is a touching pathos in these
words, which are said to have been his last.
"Great God make room in Heaven for one
more little child."

	HARRIET BEECHER Stowe says of co-
education, that "there is a masculine and a
feminine element in all knowledge; and a
man and a woman put to the same study,
extract only what their nature fits them to
see––so that knowledge can be fully de-
veloped only when the two unite in the
search and share the spoils." The idea is a
beautiful one, and might go far towards
convincing some stupid people who imagine
otherwise, that there is much in science of
every kind for woman as well as man to
understand.

	THE ACCOMPLISHED "artiste," Madam
Parepa Rosa, died in London on the night
of the 22nd ult. This favorite songstress
was born in Edinburgh in the year 1839.
Her mother was a fine vocalist and, at the
time of her gifted daughter's birth, was
winning musical fame. Parepa Rosa's
maiden name was Euphrosyne Parepa. Her
father, Count Demetrius Parepa, was a Wal-
lachian nobleman. The mother was greatly
opposed to her daughter's appearing in pub-
lic. But at last gave way, and Parepa Rosa
made her "debut" in the Island of Malta,
in the winter of 1859. She was triumph-
antly successful in her efforts to charm the
musical world. She sand in all the prin-
cipal European languages. In Milan and
Naples, Florence, Rome, Lisbon, Germany,
England and America she has been receiv-
ed with unbounded enthusiasm, and has de-
lighted the public every where with her
wonderful powers of song. As the accom-
plished lady of Carl Rosa, she was idolized
by her husband, and but lately, she became
a mother. From all the laurels gained in
her worldly career, but more than all, from
the ties of affection which must have ren-
dered her triumphs as a public songstress
most sweet, Parepa Rosa has been snatched
away while yet having scarcely reached the
prime of life.


[Column 1]
