HOME AFFAIRS.

	AFTER VISITING the Representative's Hall of
the Legislature now in session in this city, an
intelligent lady remarked that she "saw noth-
ing being done there that women could not do."
We have reason to believe that the liberality of
at least the majority of the honorable body of
Representatives, would lead them to acceed to
this particular view of the lady.

	THERE HAS lately been organized, in the 14th
Ward, "A young peoples' literary association,"
with Mr. A. Miner as President.  This associa-
tion is instead of a young gentlemen's or young
ladies' society; and the result of such co-opera-
tion will probably be more beneficial to both
sexes than would be derived from an organiza-
tion of either separately. Although the organ-
ization has been formed for the special advan-
tage and improvement of the young people of
the Ward, we understand that their constitu-
tion admits to membership any person of good
moral character, without reference to age or
place of residence.


FROM THE "Juvenile Instructor" of Jan. 17th,
we learn that at a convention of Sunday School
superintendents and teachers, held at Provo
City, Utah Co., a County Sunday School Union
was formed. We are pleased to mark the grow-
ing interest which is manifested in different
parts of the Territory, in the cause of Sabbath
Schools, and of general education.

	IT SHOULD be remembered by the ladies of
this city, that Monday, the 9th inst., is the day
set apart for the election of municipal officers.
And each one should show her appreciation of
the right of franchise which she holds, by be-
ing promptly on hand, and fully prepared to do
her part intelligently in the matter of electing
officers for the city.

	THE WORK on the Utah Northern Rail Road
is progressing finely. We learned from Mr
Chas. Nibley, the general Freight and Ticket
agent, who was in town the other day, that the
cars would run to Ogden in a few days.

	BLANCHE BEECHWOOD sends us an apologet-
ical note, on account of the length of her arti-
cle which appears in this issue. We accept her
apology, and, although preferring that our cor-
respondents would write briefly, believing that
most of our readers have the same preference,
we advise every one who reads the EXPONENT,
to read the article referred to, under the head-
ing of "Our Daughters."


