TAKE IT EASY.﻿  

	Perhaps the power of well meant kindness,
can place an inexperienced individual in no
position more painfully trying than that of a
public speaker. If anything is calculated to
take all vanity and self-conceit out of a timid
person, it must be an unexpected call to make
an extemporaneous address to a large and intel-
ligent assemblage. It is unnecessary for us to
expatiate upon the feelings it produces. Those
who have realized them, know that they are in-
describable, and those who have not, could gain
but small information from an attempted des-
cription.
	But we have no idea of frightening any one
or of giving rise to a belief that the ordeal is
one which people in general could not endure.
Severe as it certainly is to one of a sensitive na-
ture, we never heard of its producing death
And we have encouragement to offer on the
subject rather than to dissuade any one from
an attempt at lecturing or public speaking. We
are pleased with having received a prescript
tion—not for a preventive of the peculiar im-
pressions of which we have spoken, we are not
aware that such exists—but a remedy which if
properly applied will serve to alleviate the pain
of the sufferer, and at length prove to be a com-
plete restorative. At the first meeting for or-
ganizing the 14th Ward Literary Association,
the Chairman gave the following illustration.
	While studying in his younger days, to be-
come an extempore speaker, he was at one time
under the tuition of a learned and noted orator,
whose business it was to criticise the addresses
made by the young men of the school. At one
time when he—the Chairman—had taken the
stand, although he had studied well the subject


upon which he was to speak, soon after he com-
menced speaking, a sudden trembling seized
him; every thing seemed a perfect blank be-
fore his mind and a flatter break down was
never completed than he then made. His crit-
ic was close at hand, and brought him to his 
senses by calmly saying, "Take it easy—don't
be in a hurry—plenty of time you know—don't
get excited." So instead of taking his seat at
this critical moment, and considering himself
beaten, the young man stood like a statue be-
fore his audience, until he had collected his
thoughts and composed himself sufficiently to
proceed with his subject. He then went on and
completed a very creditable address.
	Every one who reads it, will doubtless, readi-
ly understand the moral of this "lesson." And,
young people, study, reflect, and make your-
selves familiar with subjects of general inter-
est. Then, when you are before an assembly to
deliver an address, "don't be in a hurry" don't
forget there is "plenty of time." And when
you feel a fluttering nervous, sensation coming
over you, remember the remedy and "take it
easy."


