	      INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	For once in my life, I was thankful for be-
ing recognized "an elderly lady." When
on a journey, all the way from Utah to Can-
ada East, a distance of 2,500 miles I was
frequently in circumstances, where, had I
been a young woman of an attractive and
fashionable type, I should have been under
great embarrassment. One or two incidents
I will mention, by way of illustration. At
Rome, N.Y. I had to change cars to go
north; all the other lady passengers were
going on to Montreal. The cars halted at
the depot, late in the night; I must wait
for the 6 o'clock train; where should I go?
there was no coach at hand. A gentleman
passenger accosted me with kind solicitude,
saying, "Madam, do you wish to go to a hotel,
where you can remain till the morning
train arrives?" I replied, "I do sir, but I know
not where to go." "With your permission
I will conduct you to a respectable house,
and commit you to the care of the Land-
lord, who will treat you kindly," was his
next remark. I thanked him, and accepted
his offer. I had two shawls and a carpet bag
to carry, (left my trunk,) he would take all
my things, and we started in the dark, for,
I knew not where. I thought he must be a
good man, he was so handsome, and well
dressed. I knew he ought to be, at least.
And so it proved, for he took me to a good
place, and told the Landlord to have me
ready for the morning train. As we were
walking, he inquired from whence I came?
I replied, "from Utah." He did not seem
excited over it so I felt safe in his company.
	Another instance, on my return journey,
I will mention. I had a "lay over ticket,"
for Sandwich, Illinois. I expected to arrive
before dusk, but some failure in the ma-
chinery, hindered the train a full hour. O,
how impatiently I waited for the cars to roll
on! fearing I might be troubled to find the
residence of my friend by night. A young
man stood at the foot of the steps, as I went
down. I inquired if he was a resident there,
and if he knew Mr. Trouslot, a French gen-
tleman, and would he direct me to the
house? He knew him well, and his family;
could give me directions: but added, "As it
is quite a distance, and no coach in readi-
ness, I had better go with you, or you may
lose your way." I was very thankful and
said many civil things. He relieved me of
what I had to carry, and presently knocked
at the door of a nicely finished building, and
I was ushered into the presence of my old
Nauvoo friend and relative; he proffered the
young man so many thanks for his polite-
ness to me, that he expressed himself more
than paid, in having been a witness of the
surprize and joy to which he had contribu-
ted. I spent a happy night and day with
my friends; and the next evening when
they conducted me to the cars, the same
gentleman stood on the platform, helped me
up the steps and put my baggage aboard.
I set his name down in my day book, and
felt thankful that there was a little genuine
politeness in the world. I recollect think-
ing as we were walking together that night,
"I am in a strange place with a stranger to
guide me, but all is well; I am 'an old
woman,' he is a young man, he will practice
no deception upon me."
	These incidents may appear to the reader
only common-place matters, but to me they
seemed worthy of notice; for I had not for-
gotten the fright I once experienced when
travelling by stage in the State of Vermont,
a State renowned for honesty and religion. 

[Column 2]
I was then a young girl and had been very
little from home. The coach stopped at a
hotel in Rutland, for the night; the house
had every appearance of being a respectable
one; and such, I believe, the owner intend-
ed it to be; but he was not a wide awake
man, besides he was a "bachelor"—how
could he keep a respectable house? I was
shown by the waiting maids, to my room;
I bolted my door and laid down to sleep.
Presently I heard noises in the hall, and
knocks on the door of my room. I was at
once convinced that there were evil design-
ing men in that hotel. I was electrified
with fear! I knew not whether I breathed!
But frightened as I was, I summoned cour-
age to say in a sonorous tone, "Leave my
door! I will report this house for a hundred
miles 'round, and warn all honest people to
shun it." The noise went farther off, and I
only heard it faintly; but no sleep was there
for me. I counted the minutes till the bell
rang at 4 o'clock, for me to be ready for the
stage. I dressed myself quickly, and thank-
ful was I to be again on the road, and breath-
ing the pure air. That day I was fortunate
in falling in company with an elderly lady
and her husband. I told my story to her,
she sympathized, and took me under her
care. The following night she engaged a
room with accommodations for us both. I
succeeded in reaching my home in Canada
with no further excitement; and resolved
never to travel again without an immediate
protector. From Burlington, Vt., I wrote
an indignation letter, addressed to that Rut-
land Landlord, denouncing the conduct he
suffered in his house.
	Four years after, having been married,
and settled in the State of New York, I
ventured on another journey, a much longer
one, without my companion; but then, I had
a little child in my arms. I felt that she
was a protection. She was a year and four
months old, had had great pains taken with
her, to render her attractive and make her
feel at home among strangers. An amiable
child wins for a mother respect and polite
attentions. No journey could have been
performed with more ease and pleasure.
And the reception we met in "the old, old
home," left heavenly memories, which came
to my worn spirit in after time, when bat-
tling with life's burdens. Until, after thirty-
eight years had passed away, I went on a
pilgrimage to the same old home, when
trust in God, and multiplied years, were my
safe-guards. I now declare in favor of
children, and old age. Let no one regret
being old. 			L. B. PRATT.
Beaver, Jan. 13th.


