WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			OUR DAUGHTERS.
	"What shall we do with our daughters!"
	Mrs. Livermore, a popular lecturer in the
East, asks this question of almost every
audience she addresses, and it is echoed on
every hand: here in Utah, mothers gravely
look each other in the face and repeat the
echo. What is the matter, and what is the
remedy ?
	The celebrated Mrs. Howe replies, “make
cooks of them.” That may answer a very
good purpose under some circumstances, but
will that supply the only deficiency in Wo-
men’s Education ? Are they taught every
thing else that is essential to their happiness
in life ? Do they possess every other requi-
site qualification which will help them to fill
Woman’s Mission here? I think not.
	There are exceptions certainly some girls
have mothers who possess an unbounded in-
fluence over their whole lives and charac-
ters—mothers who have kept themselves
free from the excesses and extravagances,
which this generation indulge in to such an
unwarrantable extent—Puritan mothers, if
you will permit the expression—and they
have restrained as much as possible, this
spirit which prevails in the world. It not
only carries the sway in dress, in style of
living and so forth, but in ideas as well.
	Girls get the most exaggerated ideas of
love and friendship and all the relations per-
taining to material existence; and this spirit
is fast gaining ground among our daughters.
	How shall we stem the current ? And
who is to step forward in this great work of
reformation ? Have we come out from the
world, and embraced the gospel of salva-
tion, revealed from heaven for the express
purpose of redeeming the human family,
from these social evils—for which we have
endured persecution and privation, being
despised not only by the world at large, but
our own kindred, I say have we endured all
this, to allow the same evils to spring up in
our midst, and not lift our voices or our pens
to cry out against them ?
	It is an easy matter to say it is the moth-
er’s fault, in speaking of our neighbor, but
when the evil creeps into your own house,
when you find it springing up under your
own eye, whose fault is it then ? Certainly
not yours—O no!
	We profess to have more light than the
world, to live purer lives, to be led by the
Spirit of God. Then we ought to move in
this matter, and show the women of the
world, that we know what to do with our
daughters.
	Do we teach them the principles of the
 gospel ? I believe wo do so far as its first
principles extend; and even the ordinances
of the House of the Lord; but do we instill in-
to their minds the necessity of living every
day in accordance with the Holy Spirit ?
Or do we, because we ourselves yield to
temptation, call on our children for sympa-
thy, in the trials of domestic life ? Do we
let them see and understand we are living
unhappily, when our holy religion should be
sufficient support, under all our trials ? If
 we are suffering from any unhappy state of
mind, in all probability we are in fault; let
us not throw the blame on any one else,
until we are sure that we are ourselves en-
tirely exempt from blame in the matter.
	I have little feeling for that mother who
allows herself for one moment, to speak to
her children against their father. If she
must speak, let it be to some one, who is
herself married, and can understand and
appreciate the feelings of a wife. That men
are imperfect is true enough, but for heav-
[Column 2]
en’s sake let your husband’s faults be sacred
from the eyes of his children!
	I am fully aware that in speaking thus
plainly, I subject myself to criticism, but I
can bear that better than to see this evil
spreading so far in Zion. Many women do
not consider the influence their words, their
actions, their looks even, have upon their
daughters. I assure you this is not imagi-
nation, and in reading this, some mother
may perchance, bethink herself and restrain
her inclination to ask for sympathy; she
does not need it, unless from her husband,
and if he does not give it voluntarily, all
the fault-finding in the world, will not call
it forth.
	Some of our good sisters will not sustain
us in our efforts for the benefit of women;
say we get together to gossip, and all that
sort of thing; ridicule our endeavors and
pretend to think we make them to gain no-
toriety; that we are “strong-minded," un-
womanly, and so forth. Thank God there
are some women who have stamina enough
to stand boldly forth in defence of right,
and to cry out against wickedness under
whatever flattering guise it may appear! It
matters little what name they give us, so
long as our motives are pure, and our actions
honorable.
	Are we not all interested in this matter ?
Is it an individual consideration ? One may
say, “I am capable of managing my own af-
fairs; I do not choose to be interfered with,
my daughters are safe.” But will they re-
main so ? This spirit is contagious as dis-
ease it is carried from house to house, it pre-
vails in the ball-room and the Theatre, the
very atmosphere seems full of it.
	The Young Ladies Societies which have
been formed, are calculated to check the
progress of these evils; to benefit our young
ladies temporally and spiritually; it is not
simply retrenchment in dress, (which seems
to scare every body so,) but it comprises
everything which will tend to refine, elevate
and purify them socially. Every mother in
Israel should encourage the young, especially
her own daughters, to sustain these associa-
tions.
	We are seeking to open a channel of in-
formation more satisfying than the gilded
literature of the present day, which is so
widely circulated: every woman’s mind
craves some mental food and a certain vari-
ety of it; but it is not safe, in this day and
age, to let young girls choose for them-
selves; the moral taste has become vitiated
and wants purifying. Mothers, do not let
your little girls read books you know noth-
ing about; you cannot watch them too
closely; you are careful, many of you, of
their physical health, afraid they should eat
too much, or dance too much, or wear their
clothes too tight, or not dress warm enough,
and keep their feet dry. That is all right;
but does it ever occur to you, that they can
drink in moral poison from impure and un-
healthy reading, as well as from associating
with people whose morals are not in accor-
dance with the principles of virtue and
piety ? Every mother should know her
daughter’s associates, and what she reads.
Oftentimes mothers are satisfied if their
girls are at home reading instead of gad-
ding about showing themselves on the
street; making all manner of chance ac-
quaintances; but I would charge you, moth-
ers, be sure it is the right kind of reading.
“It is only a love story," may be the answer
if you ask them; but perhaps some of you
mothers are not aware that Infidelity, Spir-
itualism and other evil influences are insidi-
ously making their way into novels, poison-
ing the atmosphere of light literature.
“Books are companions," and some persons
[Column 3]
have an idea they cannot be bad compan-
ions, but it is a mistaken one.
	There are among our people, very many
parents, who have gathered from the old 
countries, who cannot read at all; how are
they to choose suitable books for their daug-
ters, and whose judgment should they take 
in the matter ? If they will influence them
to join the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment So-
cieties, they will then be instructed in rela- 
tion to this matter, by those thoroughly
posted on the subject.
	I have received the impression, in con-
versing with some of our young ladies, in
regard to joining the Societies, that they
think we want to restrict them in those
privileges and enjoyments, natural to the
young; that we wish them to be long-faced,
over-serious, and in short as they express it,
“awful religious!”
	We do not believe in long-faces; cheerful-
ness is one of the Christian graces, there
can be no better proof of a clear conscience,
than a uniform cheerfulness of disposition.
Our religion is not to be put on and thrown
off, as suits the occasion and circumstances, 
it is an every-day affair, it regulates, or
should do, our whole lives, and gives us
complete self-control in all the changing vi-
cissitudes of our mortal existence.
	Mothers, let me again urge upon you, to 
use your utmost influence in assisting in the
work we have undertaken; if your daugh-
ters are free from the spirit and influence
of the world, let them help to make others
so; their influence may be more beneficial
than that of older persons. Let us work to- 
gether, for "union is power."
	I am thankful to my Heavenly Father
that we are now able to edit a woman’s pa-
per, and I consider it a duty incumbent up-
on every woman in Israel, to use her best
efforts to support and circulate it. Read it
yourselves, have your daughters read it
and if it is not good enough, help to make
it better.
	We should be the ones to lead out, and
let the world see we are not ashamed of the
Cause we have espoused. We are not re-
stricted in our ideas of woman’s privileges;
we are not in bondage as they suppose; we
are perfectly capable of thinking for our-
selves; let us lift up our voices against er-
ror, and preach what we are trying to prac-
tice in purity, showing by our words that
we believe in the doctrine we have em
braced.
	We wish our daughters to understand
themselves, perfectly and thoroughly; why
they were created, and what their future lives 
are to be; how they are to fill their missions
here, control themselves, overcome every
inherent weakness, and live pure and holy
lives. Let us give them the benefit of our
experience so far as it will have a tendency 
to stimulate them in the path of duty, and I
save them the bitter lessons we have dearly
bought, if possible guard them from evil
influences, within and without, that our
garments may be clear, and we may have it
said to us, “you have been faithful in de-
veloping the precious gems commited to
your keeping.” We shall assuredly be held 
accountable in a coming day for all these
gems. What is there more precious to a
mother than her daughters’ welfare and
happiness ? Nothing.
	Is there any sacrifice too great to be made, 
to secure this blessing for her child? None. 
Then be careful of your words, do not throw
temptation in their way yourself. Be sure
you share their confidence on all subjects,
pray with them and for them, as well as to
advise them, and your influence as mothers
cannot fail to do good.
				Blanche Beechwood.


