THE SEX.

	MRS. J. H. BIGGERS was elected copying
clerk by the California Legislature.

	WOMAN'S HOPES are woven of sunbeams;
shadows annihilate them.—George Eliot.

	MRS. ALEX. Agassiz, wife of the son of
Prof. Agassiz, died Dec. 22 of pneumonia.

	MISS CLARISSA Petit of Logansport, Ind.,
wears a $300 gold watch on the strength of
being the most popular lady in the city, ac-
cording to ballot.

	A Covington (Ky.) girl lent her shawl to
an invalid gentleman, riding in a stage, and
when he handed it back there was a $500
greenback pinned to the shawl.

	The Walker prize of Boston Society of
Natural History was won by Alexander
Agassiz. A deserved compliment to the
studious son of an honored father.

	THE FOUR hundred girls at Vassar College
are obliged to rise at 5 o'clock in the morn-
ing and are not allowed to have any beaux
except in the presence of three old women.

	AMONG THE ninety-six applicants for a
degree in the medical school of the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Miss Emma Call, daugh-
ter of A. A. Call, of Boston, carried off the
palm.

	AFTER THE Michigan Constitutional Com-
mission had vetoed the proposition to let
women hold office, Commissioner Ferry of-
fered, for separate submission to the peo-
ple, a proposition extending the right of suf-
frage to women.

	THE "JEWISH Messenger" exhorts the
Jewesses not to imitate the follies of Chris-
tian women in dressing for church. The
editor thinks in many of the churches wor-
ship is a full-dress affair, consisting in a dis-
play of finery, rather than devotion oft, hear

	THE FIRST daily paper printed in the En-
glish language was published in London, in 
1702, by a woman—one ELIZABETH MALLET.
It was called the Daily Courant, and was
not issued as a Woman's Rights paper, but
"to spare the public at least half the imper-
tinence which the ordinary papers contain."

	MRS. WEBB of Melbourne, has published
a pamphlet, entitled the Woman's Advocate,
in which she recommends that a bill should
be introduced into Parliament for establish-
ing a widow's fund, contributed to by every
husband, that no widow may be left desti-
tute. Also a maiden's fund, to which all
bachelors must contribute, that no maidens
may be left destitute after forty.

	MRS. ELLEN Sheely was among the bid-
ders in St. Louis, lately, for grading five
streets. the "Republican" of that city says:
"All the bids were very judicious and
evinced a knowledge of the business not in-
ferior to the oldest of our contractors. The
bids were very close on the mark, and the
contracts were only lost by a few cents. Mrs.
Sheely, as administratrix of her husband's
estate, completed an extensive piece of grad-
ing, last fall, for which he was contractor, in
the western part of the city, and is there-
fore not without experience in the business."


Geo. F. Robinson has received the medal
awarded to him by Congress in 1871 for sav-
ing the life of Secretary Seward, when at-
tacked by the assassin Payne, on the night
of the 14th of April, 1865. The medal was
made at the United States mint in Philadel-
phia, at a cost of fourteen hundred dollars.


