MISCELLANEOUS.

	A new toy for boys is a bear about two
feet high, which, upon being wound up,
growls and stands erect on his hind legs in
true bear style. These toys are made in
Munich.
	It is not generally known that among the
many other interesting incidents in the life
of President Andrew Jackson, he was twice
married to the same woman, a former Mrs.
Rachel Robards, daughter of Mrs. Donelson,
the widow of Colonel John Donelson, an em-
igrant from Virginia to Tennessee.
	All great leaders have been inspired with
a great belief. In nine cases out of ten,
failure is born of unfaith. Tennyson sings,
“Faith and unfaith can ne'er be equal pow-
ers." To be a great leader, and so always
master of the situation, one must of neces-
sity have been a great thinker in action.
	IT IS the weakness of some good men to
speak of man as miserable rather than
guilty. Indeed it becomes one who has ob-
tained mercy to pity rather than condemn.
Yet compassion should be mixed with a holy
indignation; for we may indulge a tender-
ness to offenders till we lose sight of the
abomination of sin.
	Happy indeed is the man or woman who
learns the lesson of gratitude for daily bless-
ings; for unbroken sleep, for convenient
food, for the necessity of labor, for the disci-
pline of sorrow, the enjoyment of one's
senses, for pure air and abundant water, and
is not envious or unhappy because a brother
commands something he or she cannot en-
joy.
	Jean Paul Richter says:—“To insure mod-
esty, I would advise the educating of the
sexes together; for two boys will preserve
twelve girls, or two girls twelve boys, inno-
cent, amid winks, jokes, and improprieties,
merely by that instinctive sense which is
the forerunner of matured modesty. But I
will gaurantee nothing in a school where
girls are alone together, and still less where
boy are.”
	A colored philosopher thus unburdened
himself on one of woman's weaknesses:
"Jim, de men don't make such fools of dem-
selves about women as de women do about
men. If dey look at de moon dey see a
man in it; and if dey hear a mouse nibbling,
it’s a man; and dey all look under de bed
last thing at night to find a man. Why I
nebber looks under my bed to find a woman
—does you?”
	An Indian maiden of fourteen years,
named Minnie Emunesky, or "White Fea-
ther," died on Sunday in Boston. She was
the sole survivor of the Cheyenne Indians
massacred some years ago at Sand river by
orders of an officer who was dismissed from
the service for the barbarous act. She was
adopted by a Boston family, and great atten-
tion paid to her education. The United
States authorities settled upon her 640 acres
of land, which now reverts to the nation.
	You should not only be religious and love
religion; you should make religion attrac-
tive, useful, and agreeable to every one
around. The sick will like your religion if
it leads you to tend them, your family will
be attracted to it if they see you more care-
ful in your duties, more patient, more dili-
gent, more gentle in finding fault. If your
husband sees that, as you become more de-
vout, you are also more affectionate to him,
more tenderly submissive, he will be won
to your religion. In a word, let your relig-
ion be as winning to others as possible.


WHEN THE Duke of Edinburgh visited
Birmingham, recently a fervid old lady el-
bowed her way to the front of the crowd, ex-
claiming, “God bless you! How’s your dear
mother?”


