HUMOROUS.

	A BAD habit to get into—A coat that’s not
paid for.

	MOSQUITOES NEVER trust—they invaria-
bly present their bills in advance.

	A VOLUME that will bring tears to your
eyes—A volume of smoke.

	ADVERTISING FOR a wife is just as absurd
as it would be to get measured for an um-
brella.

	THE LEAP year style of popping the ques-
tion now is, “Dont you want me to wash
dishes for you?"

	WHAT IS the difference between a Jew and
a lawyer? The one gets his law from the
prophets, the other his profits from the law.

	JOSH BILLINGS says: "When you strike
ile stop boring; many a man has bored
clean thru, and let all the ile run out at the
bottom.

	"BUB" ASKED a perplexed pedestrian,
"which is the quickest way for me to get to
the Eastern depot?" Accommodating news-
boy, "Run,"

	A NEW style of boys' trowsers has been
invented in Boston, with a copper seat,sheet-
iron knees, riveted down the seams, and
water-proof pockets to hold broken eggs.

	A MAIDEN lady who had once been jilted,
wrote her own epitaph, as follows:

		"Here lies the body of one
		Who died of constancy alone.
		Stranger, advance with step courageous;
		For this disease is not contageous!"

	"SO YOU don't care about donkey riding,
missy. And why? "O, I've got a pony,and
one doesn’t care about donkeys after that,
you know." "Has a pony got more legs than
a donkey, then?" Missy (who doesn't like
to be chaffed)—“Yes, exactly twice as many
as some donkeys that I know of."

	"I AM a self-made man," said a native of
Stonington the other day to a New York
gentleman with whom he had been driving
a sharp bargain. "Glad to hear you say so,"
responded the New Yorker, who had been
worsted in the trade, "for it relieves the
Lord of a great responsibility."

	"Oh, AUNT Hester, how can you be such
a hypocrite as to go to church, and exhort
and pray, and pretend to be so good, after
stealing and lying as you have?  I should
think you would expect that God would
strike you dumb."
	"Lordy, missus," responded Aunt Hester,
"do you spec I’se goin’ to gib up my bressed
Jesus just for one ole turkey hen?"


