SPLINTERS.
	General Garibaldi has published a book
which gives an account of his Sicily expe-
dition; it bears the title of "Ten thousand"
.........Clerkenwell, London, has a regular
woman preacher, Miss Fransis Power Cobb
.......A brief "Life of the late Mrs. Parton"
(Fanny Fern) has lately been prepared by
Mr. James Parton.........Tschaggenny, the
Brussels animal painter, is dead...A Bruns-
wick man doped a nest-egg with a powerful
emetic for the benefit of a neighbor whom
he suspected of stealing his eggs, and his
own son was taken very sick the same eve-
ning......An old woman is reported to have
been killed in Nevada lately, for witch-craft
......The National Grange of Patrons of Hus-
bandry meets in St. Louis, Misouri, on the
4th inst......A Bethel, Kansas, man, wants
to know which is the correct term, "How's
your woman?" or "How's your wife?" The
"Rural New Yorker" thinks either one is
correct......A Connecticut man who stole
melons from a farmer last year, has sent
the seeds back to him in a letter, with the
request that he will plant the same this year
.........The Ville du Havre is the fourteenth
large Atlantic liner totally lost......Dinners
are being supplied to poor children in Lon-
don at two cents per head......Ralls Co., Mo.,
is troubled with hog cholera......Rome, with
all its learning, is said to have fewer book-
stores than Providence, R. I.......The next
European world's exhibition will be at Ber-
lin......The Supreme Court of Texas, declares
the late election of that state unconstitu-
tional....Boston pays her professional choirs,
according to report, an aggregate of 142,000
a year.......One hundred and twenty poor
families in Connecticut received abundant
Christmas dinners from one man......A mill
has been invented in England in which the
grain is pounded into flour, trip hammers
taking the place of stones......Scientists say 
that the son of Agassiz promises even great-
er usefulness; and quite as wide-spread
fame as his father.....A Hindoo lady, laying 
aside the prejudices of her people, is visit-
ing in London with her husband, and con-
forming freely to the customs of the coun-
try......Albani, the American soprano, a na-
tive of Albany, has met with great success
on the stage at St. Petersburg......The torn 
and blood-stained play bill with which Lau-
ra Keene attempted to staunch the wound
of President Lincoln in his box at Ford's
Theatre, on the night of the assassination,
is still kept by Treasurer Spinner as a relic.
......The Spanish colonel, Montayer, is re-
ported a prisoner among the Cubans......The
Rothschilds are considered to be worth about
1,000,000,000—twelve of them including
their individual fortunes......The death of
the Siamese Twins is recorded in late jour-
nals.


