  Jan. 1874.						LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	SOME REASONS why poverty and want ex-
ist; Bones are burned that would make
soaps. Nice handled-knives are thrown into
hot water and spoiled. Dish-cloths are
thrown where mice can destroy them. Tubs
and barrels are left in the sun to dry and 
fall apart. Clothes are left on the line to 
whip to pieces in the wind. Pie-crust is
left to sour, instead of making a few tarts
for tea. Vegetables are thrown away that
would warm for breakfast. Dried fruit is
not taken care of in season, and becomes
wormy. Bits of meat are thrown out that
would make hashed meat or hash. The
cork is left out of the molasses jug, and flies
take posession. Pork spoils for the want of
salt, and beef because the brine wants scald-
ing. Coffee, tea, pepper and spices are left
standing open, and lose their strength. Po-
tatoes in the cellar grow, and the sprouts are
not removed until they are useless. Flour
is sifted in a wasteful manner, and the bake-
pan left with the dough sticking to it. Vin-
egar is drawn in a tin basin, and allowed to
stand til both basin and vinegar are spoiled.
Cold puddings are considered good for noth-
ing, when often they can be steamed for
the next day.—[The Press in General.] Still
other reasons: Men lounge about corners,
grog shops and stores, when they should be
building or repairing poultry houses. Men
hang over patches of unbroken fences, talk-
ing of anything to kill time and leave the
broken panels unmended until stock get
in and destroy “Garden sauce” enough to
supply the family table a month. Wash tubs
are taken to the barn to wash horses legs in,
[Column 2]
﻿and are left to get dry and fall to staves.
Manure is allowed to go to waste when it
should be applied to land. Wagons are run
without greasing until a heavy black smith’s
bill is the consequence. Men take plow
shares to the shop to get them sharpened
and get to playing a "little game" in the
whiskey-mill close by, and forget the plow
until it is too late to use it that day, so they
go on playing one game after another, until
they are too drunk to use it the next day.
Ropes and sacks are thrown down and trod-
den under feet of horses.—Ex.
	A DAMPENED flannel will clean chair
cushions better than a feather duster.
	SCOTCH SNUFF will drive away red ants.
Scatter it on your shelves, and see how
quickly they will go.
	WHEN SILVER wants polish, take a piece
of soft leather and some whiting and rub
hard. The proprietor of one of the oldest es-
tablishments in Philadelphia,says that house-
keepers ruin their silver by washing it in
soap suds, as it makes it look like pewter.
	STOVE LUSTRE when mixed with turpen-
tine and applied in the usual manner, is
blacker, more glossy and more durable than
when mixed with any other liquid. The
turpentine prevents rust, and when put on
an old, rusty stove will make it look as well
as new.
	SALT IS a simple remedy for many things.
It will cure sick headache, make cream
freeze, make the butter come,take inkstains
out of cloth of any kind, kill wens, kill
worms, make the ground cool, so that it is
more congenial to celery, cabbage, etc.; ease
the itching pain caused by irritable skin dis-
ease, hives, itch, etc., produce vomiting or
stop it, as you like; and many other things
too numerous to mention.
	HOW TO COOK CRANBERRIES.—Add one
teacup of cold water to a quart of cranber-
ries, and put them on in a porcelain or other
preserving kettle. After cooking ten min-
utes, add two heaping cups of sugar and
cook about ten minutes longer, stirring con-
stantly from the time they are put on. Pour
out into a bowl, and, when cold, it can be
removed as jelly from a mold. The berries
will seem very dry before the sugar is added,
but if more water is put in they will not
form jelly.
	CHEAP VINEGAR.—Take a quantity of
common Irish potatoes, wash them until
they are thoroughly clean, place them in a
large vessel, and boil them until done. Drain
off carefully the water they were cooked in,
straining it, if necessary, in order to remove
every particle of the potato. Then put this
potato water into a jug or keg, which set
near the stove, or in some place where it
will be kept warm, and add one pound of su-
gar to about two and one-half gallons of the
water, some hop yeast, or a small portion of
whiskey. Let it stand three or four weeks,
and you will have excellent vinegar, at a
cost of six or seven cents per gallon.
	TO REMOVE mold stains from books with-
out injuring the paper, the Scientific Ameri-
can gives the following directions:—1. Wet
with pure, clean water. 2. Soak in a dilute
solution of bleaching powder. 3. Pass
through water made sour to the taste by
muriatic acid. 4. Soak in pure water until
all traces of acid are removed, and dry. It
is not necessary to say that this operation
requires careful manipulation. You may
try, instead, exposing the moistened paper
to the fumes of burning sulphur, which is a
good bleaching agent, and then passing it
through water and drying.


