[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Mission]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENCY WITH GIFTS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FROM THE AUSTRALIAN, EAST GERMAN, AND SAMOAN MISSIONS, AND THE OKINAWA DISTRICT OF THE NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION Above (left to right): Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, President Belle S. Spafford, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. Left to right: a beautiful hand-painted plaque showing trees native to the continent of Australia; a unique lamp in the form of a ship's wheel, made of different woods with a shade painted with Australian scenes and animals; a Koala bear; and a second interesting plaque which pictures the life of the Australian aborigines. Picture on the opposite page (left to right): President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. President Spafford holds an unusual lacquerware tray decorated with blue pearl inlay sent by the Okinawa District Relief Society of the Northern Far East Mission. In the center is an exquisite Meissen vase, an example of the famed porcelains of Germany. The artistic vase is a gift from the Relief Society of the East German Mission. The beautiful table in the foreground is a gift of the Samoan Mission Relief Society. It is made of five native Samoan woods, and the center of the table is formed by an intricately engraved brass tray of Fijian art.

Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 3,727 members. Mary Ethel E.. Gregory presides over the East German Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the Havel River, Berlin, Germany. See also "Recipes From the East German Mission," page 528. The Gift of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd P EGGY Rockwood put a heaping bowl of cereal in front of her little son, seven-yearold Juddy, and listened while his daddy questioned him as they drank their fruit juice. "What would you like for your birthday next week, Juddy? Name anything less than a ride to the moon and we'll consider it." Juddy swallowed hard and put his spoon down without tasting his cereal. "Two things!" he said fiercely. "Two things I can't have!" "Hey, fellow!" Bill chided him. "Don't be a defeatist. How do you know you can't have them before you ask for them?" "IT know," he repeated. "I know I can't." His little chin squared off stubbornly, but not before Peggy had seen his lip quiver and his eyes blink hard. Her blue eyes shadowed tenderly as she shook her head at her husband. He must not scold Juddy now. She had known that something was troubling him, but she realized that scolding him or teasing him would only make him freeze up and keep his secret from them. "All right, Son," Bull agreed. "You can tell your mother later. Right now let's see if I can eat more cereal than you can. Yesterday you beat me. Remember?" Juddy picked up his spoon, smiling at his dad. They are so much alike, Peggy thought, her heart swelling with love for them. They had the same smooth brown hair, pensive brown Page 514 eyes and wistful, sensitive mouths contradicting the firm square line of their chins. They were all she had in the world, because her parents had both been killed when she was three and there were no aunts or uncles or grandparents, only an insurance policy that paid for her at the Service Center until she was old enough to make her own way. Then she had met Bill and he was an orphan, too. No wonder having each other and Juddy was always a miracle to them. After breakfast Juddy took his football out to the back garden, and Peggy watched him from the kitchen window. He waved gaily as Bill backed the car out of the garage and headed for the highway. 'Then he slumped down in a dejected heap on the lawn and stared wistfully at the big house next door. I had been very lonesome since his little friend Warren Hodge from across the street had gone to visit his grandmother in Colorado. Watching him now, Peggy was quite sure she knew one of the things he would like for his birthday. That was to roller skate around the wide veranda that encircled the big house. Mrs. LaRue's house, with its southern architecture, its draped windows, had a wide, inviting veranda that none of the other houses on Hill Street could afford; the kind where guests strolled in the purple twilight before one of Mrs. LaRue's famous Newburgh dinners; the kind of veranda a little boy would dearly love to whiz around on his roller skates. THE GIFT OF LOVE But, of course, Peggy told herself, with a proud lift of her shortclipped blond head, she couldn't permit Juddy to ask Mrs. LaRue if he could skate on her veranda the way he did before she moved in last spring. You simply couldn't ask a woman like Mrs. LaRue for a favor, especially when she had treated him as though he must not intrude in her life of parties and long week ends with her guests from all over the world. Peggy nibbled her lip as she put the breakfast dishes back in the cabinet and thought about Mrs. LaRue and her big house. It was an old house, Bill had told her, built about thirty years ago by the Cornwall family who had later moved to California. It was the only house on Hill Street for many years, until a real estate company built a row of modest little houses on each side of it, and she and Bill had bought one of them last spring. The big house had then been vacant and Juddy had had a grand time roller skating on the veranda. He had come to think of it as belonging to him. Bill had forbidden him to skate on the sidewalks and streets because they were too steep and the traffic was very heavy on the crossroad below. The path around their own house was graveled, so there was now no place for him to skate, since Mrs. LaRue had bought the house. Peggy remembered how she and Juday had watched the men unload the huge vans of furniture. Then a car had come with the servants, and a week later Mrs. LaRue herself had arrived. Peggy's lips folded in as she thought of her first sight of her 515 new neighbor. Juddy had been on the curb, and she had been sitting on her own front steps when Mrs. LaRue drove up alone in her lengthy blue and cream-colored convertible. Her dress had been blue, too, the color of the car, and her stole was honey-dyed mink. Peggy thought, as she glanced quickly away, that her hair was too black and _ her mouth too red and her skin too satin-smooth—as though she was afraid to smile for fear it would crack. However Juddy had smiled at Mrs. LaRue and run _ toward her, impulsively. "Hello," he had called, his eyes beaming friendliness. "I'm Juddy. I live over there. That's my mother on the steps." Mrs. LaRue had turned to look at him, but her hand had gone nervously to her throat. "Oh, no!" she had said almost to herself. "I didn't think there would be children living close." Then she looked at Peggy and tried to smile. "IT only meant." her voice stumbled. "Well — I really don't know what I meant. Please forgive me. I'm very tired." HE had hurried into the house and Juddy had run to his mother and thrown his arms around her. His eyes had been dark question marks as he looked up to her. "She's tired," Peggy had soothed hini. "Maybe she has driven a long way." "But I liked her," he insisted. "I liked her face." What could Juddy see to like about her face? Peggy had asked herself. 516 "Why?" she had questioned him, pressing his head against her breast. "Because she has a sorry face," he had answered, slowly. "It made me sorry, too." "A sorry face," she had repeated wonderingly. Juddy often hit upon the very word to describe something that eluded her. "I wish she liked me, Mama," he added over a sigh. "You must make her like you, Juddy," she had told him. "You must show her you can be a good neighbor by staying in your own yard until you are invited over there. And don't yell when you are near her windows. When you meet her give her a friendly smile, but don't try to make her notice you. Just be a good little boy and she will like you in time." But a month had gone by and still Mrs. LaRue hadn't been friendly to Juddy nor to her or Bill. And there were times when Peggy was sure that Mrs. LaRue deliberately turned her head away when she saw Juddy playing in the driveway. "We won't bother her," Peggy had told Bill. But they were unhappy to have a close neighbor who avoided them. OW Peggy looked out of the window again, but she couldn't see Juddy anywhere. She shrugged her shoulders determinedly. She must not worry about him so much. No, Peggy thought again, they couldn't live Juddy's life for him, but they could give him a happier life than either she or Bill had had, a life filled with love and surrounded by happy people. It bothered her because Juddy wanted, so tertibly, for Mrs. LaRue to like him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 She felt anger mounting in her. What did Juddy see in Mrs. LaRue that made him so eager to have her notice him? She and Bill had always hovered over him and guarded him and tried to give him everything a little boy could want. But, lately, nothing they did seemed to answer a longing in him. Peggy was dusting the figurines on the mantle when the front doorbell rang. She smoothed her apron and hurried to answer it. She caught her breath sharply. Juddy, looking guilty and pale, was standing there beside Mrs. LaRue who was holding his football in both hands! Her blue satin housecoat was buttoned crookedly as though she had put it on in a hurry. There was a great smear of dirt across the housecoat as though she had been pulled through a mudpuddle! "He was out there in the street," she said tightly. "I saw him from my window. He shouldn't play in the street. You should know better. A car was coming so I ran and pushed him." "She fell down," Juddy added in a small voice. Mrs. LaRue's lips trembled and she bent her head. Peggy squeezed her eyes shut. Juddy had been playing in the street! She reached yearningly for him. "How awful!" she breathed. "I thought he was in the back yard." The two women looked at each other. She's all shaken up, Peggy thought, with a twinge. That was a bad fall. "He might've been killed," Mrs. LaRue choked. "Don't you young THE GIFT OF LOVE mothers realize how dangerous it is?" Peggy couldn't breathe as she stared at Mrs. LaRue whose darkly beautiful eyes were deep with fear and shock. Juddy lifted his hand and brushed the dirt from her housecoat. "I'm sorry,' he murmured. "I only went after my football. It bounced when I ran." "Juddy!"" Peggy scolded. "Your Daddy will be very cross. You know you're not to skate or play in the street!" "Daddy said not to skate in the street,' he protested. Mrs. LaRue looked down at him, ~ reproachfully, but there was something in her eyes almost like flowers growing under ice. "If you have to skate..." her voice loosened a little, "you can use my veranda in the mornings. Anytime from eight till twelve. You'll be safe there." Juddy's eyes were almost too big for his face. "Gee, thanks!" he — grinned. "Thanks, Mrs. LaRue. You're real nice." Before Peggy could thank her, Mrs. LaRue brushed past Juddy and hurried down the steps, but his eyes followed her until she had disappeared through her front door. EGGY felt weak and trembly as she went slowly back into the house and took down Juddy's skates from the high shelf in the closet. How could she ever repay Mrs. LaRue? What could she do for a woman who had everything in the world and didn't need the friendliness of her neighbors? Peggy was determined to show her gratitude 517 to her. Maybe if she baked a pie or one of her real fancy jelly cakes, it might be acceptable. Then she remembered that Mrs. LaRue had a cook and a maid and was noted for her delicious dinners. But Juddy didn't question what he could do to show his appreciation. Peggy watched from the window as he put the skates on the lawn beside the rose arbor.