[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting Casseroles and Leftovers Rhea H. Gardner]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
553 
dence  that  he  may  have  God's  help 
throughout  the  day.  Then,  at  the 
close  of  the  day,  for  the  family  again 
to  kneel  in  humility  and  thanksgiv- 
ing brings  peace  to  family  members 
and  a  desire  to  continue  in  right- 
eousness. 
If  feelings  have  been  hurt  or  er- 
rors committed,  individuals  may  not 
feel  like  praying;  but  Brigham 
Young  has  said  of  such  an  attitude: 
It  matters  not  whether  you  or  I  feel 
like  praying,  when  the  time  comes  to 
pray,  pray.  If  we  do  not  feel  like  it,  we 
should  pray  till  we  do  ...  .  Let  no  per- 
son give  up  prayer  because  he  has  not 
the  spirit  of  prayer,  neither  let  any  earth- 
ly circumstance  hurry  you  while  in  the 
performance  of  this  important  duty  (Dis- 
courses of  Brigham  Young,  pp.  44,  46). 
Some  families  encounter  difficul- 
ty in  finding  a  convenient  time  for 
all  members  to  participate  in  family 
prayer.  This  should  never  be  a 
cause  for  neglecting  this  command- 
ment. One  exemplary  family  found 
the  solution  to  evening  prayers  by 
setting  the  alarm  clock  for  7:00 
p.m.,  which  was  the  signal  for  all 
to  assemble  before  any  member  left 
for  an  evening  appointment.  Think 
what    a    safeguard     these    prayers 
would  be  to  young  people!  Surely 
prayer  is  a  protecting  shield  against 
the  enticements  of  Satan.  Many 
have  testified  that  the  thought  of 
their  families  kneeling  together  in 
prayer  asking  the  Lord  to  protect 
them  from  harm  and  evil,  has  saved 
them  from  yielding  to  temptation 
and  making  serious  mistakes. 
When  loved  ones  are  far  from 
the  home  circle,  the  prayers  of  the 
family  are  a  sustaining  influence.  It 
means  much  for  them  to  know 
that  their  families  are  praying  for 
them  regularly  at  home.  They  may 
even  visualize  the  exact  hour  when 
prayers  are  being  said  and  the  faces 
of  their  loved  ones  engaged  in  this 
sacred  practice. 
In  a  day  when  divorce  and  ju- 
venile delinquency  are  alarming, 
family  prayer  can  be  a  strong  in- 
fluence in  preventing  these  sad  sit- 
uations. Family  prayer  cements 
family  ties,  it  generates  harmony 
and  love,  and  teaches  unselfishness. 
Hearts  are  mellowed,  tempers  soft- 
ened, and  problems  dwarfed  through 
seeking  divine  aid: 
More  things  are  wrought  by  prayer 
Than  this  world  dreams  of. 
"Morte  D'Arthur,"  Tennyson 
Vi/ork    11 teettng — Food  Preparation  and  Service 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  2— Casseroles  and  Leftovers 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  November  13,  1956 
r^ASSEROLES  play  an  important     role  may  be  prepared  two  or  more 
role  in  meal  planning.    A  casse-     weeks  before  it  is  to  be  served,  if  it