[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Pray in YOur Families Unto the FAther" Leone O. Jacobs]
552 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1956 
unto  the  Gentiles  according  to  his  word, 
then  ye  may  know  that  the  covenant 
which  the  Father  hath  made  with  the 
children  of  Israel,  concerning  their  rest- 
oration to  the  lands  of  their  inheritance, 
is  already  beginning  to  be  fulfilled. 
And  ye  may  know  that  the  words  of  the 
Lord,  which  have  been  spoken  by  the 
holy  prophets,  shall  all  be  fulfilled;  and 
ye  need  not  say  that  the  Lord  delays  his 
coming  unto  the  children  of  Israel 
(3  Nephi  29:1-2). 
Mormon  concludes  Third  Nephi 
with  advice  to  the  Gentiles  of  this 
day: 
Turn,  all  ye  Gentiles,  from  your  wicked 
ways;  and  repent  of  your  evil  doings,  of 
your  lyings  and  deceivings,  and  of  your 
whoredoms,  and  of  your  secret  abomina- 
tions,   and   your   idolatries,    and    of   your 
murders,  and  your  priestcrafts,  and  your 
envyings,  and  your  strifes,  and  from  all 
your  wickedness  and  abominations,  and 
come  unto  me,  and  be  baptized  in  my 
name,  that  ye  may  receive  a  remission  of 
your  sins,  and  be  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  that  ye  may  be  numbered  with 
my  people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel 
(3  Nephi  30:2). 
Questions  on  the  Lesson 
1.  How  did  Jesus  define  the  gospel? 
2.  What  scripture  did  he  give  to  the 
Nephites?  Why? 
3.  What   did   Jesus   say   regarding   the 
house  of  Israel?     the  Jews?     the  Gentiles? 
4.  Why  are  Jesus'  words  about  Elijah 
important? 
5.  What  did  Malachi  say  about  tithing? 
6.  What  did  Jesus  say  about  the  name 
of  the  Church? 
7.  What  does  "sanctified  by  the  recep- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost"  mean? 
Visiting  cJeacher   1 1 tessages — 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  42— "Pray  in  Your  Families  Unto  the  Father,  Always  in  My  Name, 
That  Your  Wives  and  Your  Children  May  Be  Blessed"  (3  Nephi  18:21). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  November  6,  1956 
Objective:  To  point  out  the  blessings  that  come  from  family  prayer. 
pERHAPS  there  is  no  single  ac- 
tivity in  the  home  which  results 
in  richer  blessings  than  does  that  of 
family  prayer.  If  parents  would 
only  realize  the  rewards  of  this  activ- 
ity they  would  be  very  faithful  in 
its  observance.  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  said  of  family  prayer: 
I  am  convinced  that  one  of  the  great- 
est things  that  can  come  into  any  home 
to  cause  the  boys  and  girls  in  that  home 
to  grow  up  in  a  love  of  God,  and  in  a 
love  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  to 
have    family    prayer    (Gospel    Standards, 
page  25). 
Families  which  start  the  day  by 
kneeling  down  together  in  prayer 
receive  a  spiritual  uplift.  As  each 
individual  goes  forth  to  his  day's 
duties  he  carries  with  him  the 
knowledge  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  been  entreated  to  attend 
him.  He  goes  out  with  the  backing 
of  his  entire  family,  and,  added  to 
this  security,  is  a  feeling  of  confi-