[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: The Priceless Gift of Peace Marianne C. Sharp]
What's the use, she thought, he's all wound up again, and when he is that way evervthing I do is wrong as far as he is concerned. She was too angry to cry. She felt all tied _ up inside. If only she could discuss her problem with someone, it might help. It would be useless to talk to her mother. She invariably took Mollie's part and Jim did not stand a chance. Aunt Margaret was just as bad. 'There was Millie, across the street, but she had so many cares of her own, it would be unfair to burden her with any more. Besides, she did not want her affairs discussed around the neighborhood. Suddenly she thought of Aunt Rachael. Aunt Rachael never gossiped. She was over eighty years old, and the town had practically grown up around her. She had had many ups and downs in her life— mostly downs — and yet she had come through smiling. Surely she could advise her. Mollie hurriedly cleaned up the house and started out to see Aunt Rachael. It was just a short distance, and the cool, damp air felt refreshing against her flushed cheeks., "Come in and sit down," called out Aunt Rachael as soon as Mollie opened the door. "It's so nice to have someone drop in and chat with me. I don't get out as often as I used to." Mos tim heard the door slam Mollie could not hold back her pent-up emotions any longer. She dropped into the nearest chair and burst into tears. Aunt Rachael did not say a word — just let her sob it out. "Oh, Aunt Rachael, I'm sorry; I'm really ashamed to act this way." "That's all night, dear, that's all right. It's just nature's way of easing the pressure when you are overtaxed. Now, what's troubling you?" "It's Jim — he is so cross and irritable lately that I can hardly stand it. No matter how hard I try, I don't seem to please him. Maybe I never was meant for him; maybe he is tired of me; maybe I should leave him; maybe." "Maybe," interrupted Aunt Rachael, "he is working too hard. I heard he got the contract to put in the new road down in Fairview. They say that is a pretty tough job." "He has been working hard, Aunt Rachael. It's nearly impossible to get dependable help nowadays, and every time he leaves the job, something goes wrong. He never gets home until late and has to leave early in the morning." "Ruth came in to see me yesterday." softly said Aunt Rachael, artfully trying to change the conversation.