[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Dougherty]
[A Tribute to the Singing Mothers Myree Dougherty]

Butter 2 c. Turkey or chicken 2 tbsp. Flour cut in bite-size pieces 1 tsp. Salt ¥% c. Sliced toasted almonds ' tsp. Prepared mustard In separate saucepans, cook noodles and broccoli until just tender. Meanwhile, in saucepan over low heat melt butter. Blend in flour. Add seasonings. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened. Remove from heat, add cheese, and stir until melted. Drain noodles and broccoli. Cut broccoli stems in -inch slices. Leave flowerets whole. Arrange noodles, broccoli stems, and turkey in casserole. Pour cheese sauce over all. Arrange broccoli flowerets on top, pressing them lightly into sauce. Sprinkle with almonds. Bake till bubbling on top. Note: Frozen peas or carrots could be used in place of broccoli, and ham may be used in place of turkey. CREAMED NOoopLe RING This is a tasty and attractive dish. It is especially suited to Sunday dinner or company luncheon, since everything, except the final baking of the ring, can be done well in advance of serving time. It also offers an excellent and appealing way to use leftovers. Cook 1 package or about 2 c. Fresh noodles. Drain and place into an oiled mold about 9 inches in diameter. Mix: 2 c. Medium white sauce 2 eggs, slightly beaten % \b. Cheese, grated 2 tbsp. Grated onion "2 tsp. Dry mustard Pour over noodles. Place in pan of water and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) for 30 to 40 minutes. 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Turn out on large platter and fill center with creamed meat, poultry, fish or vegetables. Makes 6-8 servings. LEFTOVER TURKEY ¥% c. Chopped celery 1 3 oz. Can sliced mushrooms ¥% c. Tiny whole onions 3 ¢. Diced turkey 2 c. Turkey stock or 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 chicken boullion cubes dissolved 3 tbsp. Chopped parsley in 2 c. Water salt and pepper % c¢. Flour Cook celery and onions in small amount of boiling salted water. Drain. Heat 1% c. Stock to boiling. Blend flour with % c. Cold stock. Mix. Cook until thick and smooth. Add remaining ingredients, season to taste. Pour into casserole. Top with rich biscuit dough. Bake 30 minutes in 425°F. Oven. Serves 6 - 8.