HEARTFELT FAREWELL.
	The Woman’s Exponent is now nearing
its forty-second birthday, having been first
issued on the first of June, 1872.
	The aim of the paper has always been
to assist those who needed assistance in
any or every line. That it has been the
medium through which many successful
and admired writers of the state have first
appeared in print is a well known fact. The
paper has always stood for high ideals,
both in the home, in the state, and in the
Church; desiring above all things the wel-
fare of the people at large. For women,
it has been a standard bearer, proclaiming
their worth and just claims throughout the
long years of its existence. As a teacher to
the Latter-day Saints, it has performed a
good work and its influence has been also
felt in the missionary field. We feel that
with justice to ourselves we can make this
claim and more if we so choose; and now
that this issue is to be the last, we cherish
in our hearts the thought that those who
have been our faithful patrons, will always
feel that our efforts to give them some good
thoughts, inspiring and comforting words,
have been unselfish and heartfelt. We love
the readers of this paper as a part of our-
selves; we love women and would ever
strive to uplift and help them to attain their
ideals; we love the Latter-day Saints and
we love the Relief Society—that great or-
ganization which this little paper has ever
sought to represent and build up; and may
our Heavenly Father ever have in His
gracious care, the women, whose life ser-
vice is the regeneration of mankind. The
Exponent has striven more than anything
else to be the organ of the Relief Society
and has published from time to time, reports
of ward, stake and general conferences of
that organization, their celebrations and
their resolutions. Its numbers contain
sketches of the lives of Relief Society
workers and notices of their deaths. It has
surely performed a mission in the midst of
Zion for the women of Zion, holding as
it does within its leaves the history of their
work. To lay aside the editorial pen, even
after so many long years, seems a hard
task, but though the pen may be idle, the
mind will ever gratefully remember all the
associations which this little paper has been
instrumental in creating. May you contrib-
utors continue in your chosen calling; may
you readers ever find good and worthy ma-


terial for your leisure moments, and may
God bless you all.


