PRESIDENT PENROSE.
	On the 4th of February, President Charles
W. Penrose attained the eighty-second mile
stone in his life—a life so full of service that
time has made little if any mark on his geni-
al countenance nor dimmed his youthful
spirit. Industry and faith have seemed to be
his investements and they have produced
great dividends, the love and admiration of
thousands of friends; and who could ask for
greater wealth! On Wednesday evening,
the night of President Penrose’s birthday,
there gathered in the large assembly room
of the Bishop’s building about five hundred
of his friends to pay him homage. The en-
tertainment was under the direction of the
Genealogical Society and was a most pleas-
ing affair. The program was rendered by
members of President Penrose’s family who
showed marked talent along literary and
musical lines. All the songs and poems
were the composition of the guest of honor.
A most interesting feature was a biograph-
cal sketch prepared and read by Mrs. Jessie
Penrose Jones, the oldest daughter, in which
all the important events in President Pen-
rose’s life were mentioned—the fact being
brought forth that he read the scriptures
at the age of four and has been a student of
sacred history ever since.
	The different numbers on the program
were announced by E. C. Penrose, one of
the sons, who told when and in under what
circumstances the different hymns were
written, thus giving some valuable histori-
cal information.
	President Joseph F. Smith and President
Anthon H. Lund each made affectionate and
felicitous remarks, after which the guest
of the occasion expressed his appreication
and spoke in his usual happy manner. Re-
freshments were served by the ladies of the
Genealogical Society and an informal re-
ception followed the program.
	President Penrose was showered with
flowers and congratulations from his numer-
ous friends. The occasion was in every re-
spect pleasing, and the Exponent joins with
his many friends in kindest wishes for Presi-
dent Penrose and, in the hope that his useful
life may be continued for many, many years.


