[Column 2]
Churches have been burned to the ground,
priceless pictures ruthlessly destroyed;
policemen have been struck in the face in the
official discharge of duty by those Mrs.
Gamp would have been apt to describe with
certain qualifications as “female women.”
In goal for the crime of arson, when whole-
sale destruction of life has been narrowly
averted, the insurgent patriot on behalf of
women’s vote obtains a speedy release
through the ruse of hunger-striking; her re-
turn to freedom is celebrated by a banquet
at one of the most expensive hotels.
	But one day the world rings with an act
which makes the most daring deed of Don
Quixote pale before it. Not the quiet plain
which stretched around revolving wind-mills
that the Don mistook is the scene of adven-
ture, but the crowded spectacle of the royal
Derby race-course. A militant Suffragette
having evaded the barriers has thrown her-
self amongst the horses while they were
galloping by. A jockey, whose horse was
caused to stumble, escaped with a slight
injury; but in a few days the woman dies
of the hurts received. And the militant pro-
pagandists of the Vote advertise a spectac-
ular funeral. The cause has at length a
martyr.
	At the funeral of Don Quixote one would
surely weep; he sought not the applause of a
community, nor desired posthumous fame.
Save for one poor serving-man, the exploits
of his knight-errantry were performed alone.
He would not have hurt a lamb, whose iden-
tity was apparent as such. Alas! poor gen-
tleman, he was subject to illusions. But a 
woman of established sanity, in the hey-dey
of life’s prime, indued with the privilege of
intellectual culture—she had graduated from
a university with the degree of B. A.—had
thrown away her life for an act in which
not reason was justified, nor utility served.
	There is usually perceptible in a waiting
crowd the prevailing sentiment which has
gathered it together. It was a general half-
holiday, the day on which the dead Suffra-
gette’s funeral procession was to pass. The
route had been advertised, and in the bril-
liant sunshine the street-curbs were lined
with multitudes eager to be diverted by a
spectacle, possessed with sensational curi-
osity which had a certain morbid under-
current here and there. At length from the
ranks of onlookers was shouted, “Hark!
here they come!” A band was heard, and
nearer and nearer came the wailful strains of
Chopin’s Marche Funebre. Two glass
hearses appeared, containing wreaths and
other floral tributes. Then came an open
hearse, from which a crape-bound pennon
fluttered heavily; upon that, smothered in
white and purple flowers, was the coffin.
Then advanced a long procession of motley
banners. In the rear they stretched the
length of the street, high above the heads of
the crowd. Many of them rich in texture,
a few were emblematic in design; most,
however, reared a motto or scripture text in
purple letters upon a white background.
Certain of the former represented civic or-
ganizations conducted by men, whose polit-
ical opinions accord with the suffragist
movement. Most dolorous was one repre-
senting a society of women writers, the de-
sign of a rising sun in gold upon a white
background shining dimly through black
chiffon drapery. Of the texts and mottoes
held aloft, the selection or wording consti-
tuted a lurid revelation of the thought con-
fusion and the aberration of sentiment at

[Column 3]
the basis of the British Suffrage movement
as it appears in the prenomenon of “mili-
tancy.” For instance, “Give me Freedom or
give me Death,” seemed calculated to impel
a more casual mind than Pilate’s to turn
over the query, “What is Freedom?”
“Fight on, and God will give the Victory,”
the injunction on another banner, was some-
what provocative of inquiry as to the mili-
tant Suffragists’ religious creed. Certain
direct quotations from scripture had a more
painful effect upon those who hold the ideals
of Christianity in reverence. One of these,
indeed, in relation to that coffin, seemed su-
premely pitiful through the falseness of the
relevancy, “She hath done what she could.”
That the epitaph to describe the culminating
rashness of a once promising career, cut
short at its zenith? Had the act which cost
the woman graduate her life been to stop a
run-away dray, in order to save a little child,
or even a pet dog from injury, the applica-
tion might have served. But then there
would have been no pompous procession; no
banners nor bands for the diverted multi-
tude. What is it Charles Reade, in his
preface to a great book, has said concern-
ing sorrows suffered in silence, noble deeds
done without recognition, burdens bravely
borne every day by those “obscure heroes,
philosophers and martyrs that people earth?”
But a band in the rear was now passing, and
again the strains of Chopin wailed forth in-
finite lament. Well might the mournful music
wail on this bright day for the vigorous life
laid low prematurely. The woman in her
coffin was a martyr, after all; not in a great
and noble sense, but one supremely pitiful—
the martyr of a cause whose inherent blun-
derings have resulted in wild and wilder an-
archy, now at length emblazoning itself with
a vain apotheosis of its first victim unto
death. The pity of the individual tragedy of
a wasted sacrifice almost hallowed the propa-
gandists’ farce. As the music passed out of
hearing onward with the coffin towards the
station, I thought of certain lines learned
long ago by heart, which first conveyed the
idea of woman’s rights in a serious sense to
me. Perhaps the dead Suffragette had
known and felt them, too, until the octopus
of notoriety, with its fatal clutch, marred in
her the sense of the truth and fitness of
things. The lines are uttered by “The
Princess” to her fellow-seekers who would
stake the utmost for the highest:
						“Girls,
Knowledge is now no more a fountain seal’d:
Drink deep, until the habits of the slave,
Gossip and slander, die. Better not be
At all, than not be noble!”
