[Column 2]
the Mamreoff family for centuries and cen-
turies. Here on my couch lies a garment
woven before America was a nation,” and
she lifted for inspection a superb garment
woven of thread of gold.
	Madame Mountford is at present install-
ing at the American University of Washing-
ton what is said to be one of the most com-
plete and remarkable Biblical museums in
the world. The collection consists of hun-
dreds of magnificent handwoven garments,
many of which have been handed down the
centuries in Palestine, and all of which
are authentic representations of the mode of
dress of Biblical days.
	“In my collection,” madame told me,
“there are also rare scrolls, ancient precious
stones and coins, and much else of value
taken from the very spots in which the most
stirring scenes of Biblical drama were en-
acted. The collection, which is at present
being catalogued, is the work of a lifetime
on my part, and is valued at thousands of
dollars. I did not present it to your na-
tional museum, because there it would have
lost effectiveness by being merely one of .
many great collections. At the American
University it will stand out conspicuously.
I wanted to place it in America, and in
Washington. I hope it may become a mat-
ter of national interest to this great coun-
try.”
	Madame Mountford’s eldest brother,
Peter, was the friend and private secre-
tary of the late William H. Seward, who
first met him when on a visit to Jerusalem,
and who urged him to come to America. Her
sister also came to this country and for some 
years held the chair of languages and Eng-
lish literature at Binghampton College, New
York.
	Madame Mountford is a member of the
congressional committee appointed by the
National Woman Suffrage Association to
plead with Congress for a suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution. She has told the
story of life and customs handed down in
Palestine from Biblical days to the present
time to tens of thousands of people in Amer-
ca, England, Australia and India.—
Selene A. Harmon, from the Seattle Times.


