[Column 2]
ing the present war, seems to be a tragic
fate for one so full of hope and faith.
	Helen Mar Whitney, mother of our gifted
poet and historian, Orson F. Whitney, pos-
sessed marked literary ability, and pub-
lished many strong articles and letters,
mostly on doctrinal subjects.
	Mary J. Tanner, Martha J. Coray and Lu-
cinda Lee Dalton have all written some fine
essays and poems, thus contributing to the
field of literature.
	Another writer of beautiful verse is Miss
Miller, known to the public as “Ruby La-
mont,” never having consented to the use of
her own name.
	Lydia D. Alder, Ellis R. Shipp, and
Lillie T. Freeze have all long been engaging
in literary work, and are still among the
writers. Mrs. Alder has published a book,
the History of the Holy Land, and Mrs.
Shipp has issued an artistic volume of
poetry called “Life Lines.”
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates began her lit-
erary work quite early, and still continues.
She was the founder of the magazine, the
Young Woman’s Journal, and for many
years its editor. Her work consists largely
of short stories. In the issue of her inter-
esting book, “John Stevens’ Courtship,” she
claims the distinction of having written and
published the first work of fiction by a Utah
woman.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze wrote some inter-
esting articles and poetry, and we must not
forget our sweet writer, Ruth May Fox,
whose poetry is most tender and musical.
	Among the later writers whose work is
widely recognized, Mrs. Annie Pike Green-
wood claims a prominent place. Her poems
having been published in The Century and
other magazines. Utah very proudly claims
her. Also Miss Josephine Spencer, whose
stories and poems have found a place in
The Youth’s Companion and St. Nicholas
magazine. Miss Spencer’s best work has
been probably somewhat retarded by the
constant grind of newspaper work.
	There are a host of women writers now
of splendid literary ability whose names
deserve mention in this article, though it
is called “Early Women Writers,” because
they are contributing to the field of home
literary work and giving encouragement to
others as well as interesting many thousands
of readers—Mrs. Kelsey who has won the
prize poem in the Christmas News more
than once, as has also Mrs. Bertha Ander-
son Kleinmann who published a beautiful
Indian story in verse. May Booth Talmage,
Ann M. Cannon and Mary Connelly, who
have edited the Young Woman’s Journal
and contributed largely to the contents of
that little magazine; Edith E. Read, Maud
Baggarley, Grace Ingles Frost, Kate
Thomas, Alice M. Horne, Christine D.
Young, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Ada Patterson,
Mrs. Coray and doubtless many others
whose names I do not now recall.
	Many times during this narrative, men-
tion has been made of the little periodical the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, which in this issue
closes its career. The paper has been the
medium through which many of the Utah
writers first came to public attention, both
men and women, and has formed in its ser-
vice the medium through which nearly all
those mentioned in this article have ex-
pressed their best thoughts.
