[Column 1]
woman and man would result in the for-
feiture of that chivalry which is man’s defer-
ence, not to woman’s inherent weakness only,
but to her dower of delicacy and fineness,
psychal and temperamental, in the sum of
her strength.
	What, after all, is the destiny that woman
in her best development was intended by the
law of furtherance to fulfil? To achieve
submergence of her womanhood, a bur-
lesquing travesty of man, until Nature, out-
raged, brands her as a monstrous abortion,
or Time, in reactionary adjustment, disowns
her ancestry amidst a compensated genera-
tion’s laughter? Or is it for her to know
herself, complete, unique in individuality in-
deed, but in the electrical light of compar-
ison, seen decreed within herself to be, not
man’s double, but his complement, as surely
as he is hers? To recognize this is the rec-
ognize elemental truth, potentially motioned
towards infinite altitudes of the ideal in
realization. What, one ponders, can be the
attitude thereto of the militant Suffragists,
whose blatant egoism, revealed in vagaries
of ever increasing violence, has scourged the
land with lawlessness broadcast, soliciting
condonence of its crimes in pseudo-martyr-
dom?
	My introduction towards this form of suf-
fragism was at a certain stall of an exhibi-
tion, some seven years ago. Behind this stall
was a typical Suffragette, who, on my mak-
ing cursory examination of the pamphlets
and other suffrage “literature” of the stall,
advertised the opinions she was representing
in a hard, measured voice. She spoke in ex-
aggerated terms of a Miss Somebody whose
prowess appeared to consist in having in
various ways proved herself the equal of
man, in total independence of all masculine
aid, paternal or otherwise. “We” meaning
the amazonian army of the militant sister-
hood—“are prouder of her than of Joan of
Arc.”
	Joan the Maid, who spent her heroic life-
blood for a selfless realization of a dream, I
had heard of from time to time since daisy-
chain days: of the former lady never previ-
ously. The words and tone of the proclaimer
of her fame, however, brought by frictional
process to my mind the words of Tennyson:
	“Each like to each, yet like in difference.”
	“I think,” I replied, “a woman should
supplement, not substitute a man. Men
should be chivalrous.”
	Meanwhile the discussion had attracted a
little band of auditors around the stall.
Amongst them was an unmistakable French-
man, in an inverness cloak and wide-
brimmed hat; and a matronly elderly woman.
	At the latter words the Frenchman grave-
ly doffed his chapeau, while the woman said:
	“Men in England are not chivalrous as
they used to be in my younger days, and its
just the Suffragettes who are spoiling them
for us all!”
	Half a dozen years, and the Suffragette
vendor of the militant journal, Votes for
Women, has become as familiar a figure of
London streets as the Turkish bath sand-
wichman. Meanwhile, she had contrived to
contribute to the world a series of shocks.
Sudden sallies by surreptitious means into
the sacred precincts of parliament, attempted
invasion of the premier’s residence, have
been followed by wholesale smashing of
windows, and the destruction of the com-
munity’s letters in the public pillar-boxes.

