CAPITAL CITIES IN COLONIAL DAYS.
	In the first place there was really not
one single city that could properly be called
the capital, though the one that comes near-
est claiming that distinction is Philadelphia,
and she had to divide the honor with New
York. Surely we can not speak of the
colonial cities without saying something of
Boston. For, as Governor Hutchinson
said, in 1773: “For many years past the
town of Boston has been used to interest
itself in every affair of moment which con-
cerned the Province in general.” Certainly
Boston sought to do all that it could to give
form to the action of the colonists in other
parts not only of Massachusetts but of all
America. The story of the city of Boston
can not be told, therefore, without reference
to several events that were going on in other
parts of the land. The story of Boston calls
us to a study of our independence, to a con-
templation, first, of a vigorous struggle by
strong men and women for a century and a
half, against a powerful monarchy; and next
to an examination of the fruits of that con-
flict in the development of a typical Amer-
ican civilization. Up to the year 1629 or
1630, England had done but little in the
way of settling the new lands in the west,
though she made great claims upon Amer-
ca, through the discoveries of Cabot. There
had, it is true, been considerable exploration
under Elizabeth, but it was not until the
reign of James I that anything creditable
and enduring was actually accomplished.
	The 26th day of August, 1629, is an im-
portant date in the history of Boston. On
that day the decision was taken that deter-
mined the settlement of the town. Had it
not been for a conclusion then reached by
a company of discreet gentlemen who met
at Cambridge, England, the promontory
called Shawmut by the Indians, might have
been peopled by quite a different class of
settlers from those who made it their first
home in America. In speaking of these first
settlers of Massachusetts, James Russell
Lowell said:
	“There never was a colony, save this, that
went forth, not to seek gold, but God.” And


