[Column 1]
seemed to receive an answer to her petition
in verse, which, on the inspiration of the
moment she would indite. One of her last
hymns is the one called “The Day of Re-
demption.” This hymn was written during
those dark days in Utah known as the “un-
derground days.” Just before going away
from the midst of the people, our honored
and revered president, John Taylor, preach-
ed a very powerful sermon in the Taber-
nacle, I believe it was his last public ser-
mon to the people, and after counseling the
Saints, he said to them, words to this effect:
“No matter what happens, remember The
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth.” These are
the words Mrs. Woodmansee took for her
theme, and each verse of the hymn ends
with that phrase—The Lord God Omnipo-
tent reigneth.”
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s life was no bed of 
roses. She had many struggles and hard-
ships early and late, though for a time she
was quite prosperous in business, and
seemed to be acquiring more ease for her
later years. Financial difficulties appeared
again, still she was always hopeful, cheer-
ful and industrious. Mrs. Woodmansee
was one of those undaunted spirits which
feared nothing in the cause of truth—prov-
ing this statement beyond a doubt when I
tell you she was one of that memorable
company who pulled or pushed a handcart
from Iowa to Utah, walking every step for
1,000 miles.
	Louisa Lulu Greene Richards, beloved
among the people for her children’s stories
and poems, was the first editor of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, then a young woman
just beginning her literary work. Mrs.
Richards has written a great deal for the
public, and published one volume of poems
called “Branches that Hang Over the Wall,”
surely a most poetic name. She conducted
for many years the department for little
folks in the Juvenile Instructor, and has
been a frequent contributor to the Children’s
Friend, these two periodicals being the or-
gans of the L. D. S. Sunday Schools and
Primary Association. She has also con-
tributed to the hymn book and to the Sun-
day School Song Book. The beautiful hymn
called “One Hundred Years” was the prize 
hymn written for the one hundredth anni-
versary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The Sunday School Union offered
three prizes for the three best poems to be
set to music, the theme to be connected
with the Prophet Joseph, and Mrs. Richards
won all three of the prizes.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron is another of
our early women writers who has contrib-
uted both of poetry and prose, and pub-
lished one very valuable little book of bi-
ographies called “Representative Women of
Deseret.” Her poetry is very touching and
tender. Her life has been somewhat seared
with sorrow and misfortune, but she always
has a hopeful and cheerful word for her
friends. She was one of that memorable
company who reached Utah by coming all
the way from Boston to San Bernardino in
the ship Brooklyn, around Cape Horn, and
was with the members of the Battalion in
California at the time of the discovery of
gold.
	Miss Sarah E. Russell has written for
many years, both prose and poetry, under
the nom de plume of Hope. She was surely
one of Utah’s gifted daughters, and her 
work is of a high order. That she died an 
exile, driven from her home in Mexico dur-

