[Column 1]
same profit for flowers, and over one hun-
dred large bunches of flowers sent to
friends besides. So, it is a conservative
estimate that I give you when I say that
within two years from its entire setting out,
in the form of a park, a block would be sav-
ings its residents one thousand dollars per
year, and furnishing bouquets, too, for
friends.
	The residents on any block could unite.
Here we are friends, relatives, neighbors
of long standing. Let us take out the un-
sightly fences, mark our property lines with
rows of flowers, lay out the block as a park
—a combined vegetable garden, orchard,
vineyard, flower garden and lawn! It would
not only be a thing of beauty and a joy for-
ever, if it were unceasingly cared for; and
who would be content with the stale and
expensive market product after enjoying
the fresh vegetables and fruit from his own
vine and tree?
	I believe that the greatest difference be-
tween poverty and plenty, between poor
living and good living, is a home garden.
Then, just for a moment, think of that de-
graded poverty that never allows God’s
children to see even a bud unfold. Who
could have joy in such an unlovely life?
	It does cost work, it does take time. But
it brings joy! Digging is good for women,
for both old and young. Both of my grand-
mothers were gardeners of no mean order,
and both passed the eightieth mark and one
nearly reached ninety.
	There must be early rising. Say, did you
ever see a sunrise out in your own quiet
garden, where everything seemed waiting,
expectant, for the sunlight? Yes, garden-
ing pays, and in more ways than one.
	In parking a block, after the fences are
removed the soil should be fertilized by
manure and dead leaves that are available,
and must also be carted away. What a
waste to burn the leaves, and how dreadful
it makes the atmosphere. Walks should be
laid out and don’t be stingy about the
walks; make them broad and spacious. It
will add greatly to the beauty of your home.
Small, sunny patches should be filled in
with strawberries, rhubarb and asparagus,
and more shady spots will like English cur-
rants, goosberries, raspberries, sage, pars-
ley, mint, summer savory and thyme. Grapes
in the hottest soil and sunniest places, hung
on a long pergola or lattice, would be
charming. A small grove of English wal-
nuts and almonds, will pay large dividends
in good nuts, after eight years, and con-
tinue bearing many years. They are dec-
orative from the first. Mr. J. T. Harwood
has varieties of English walnuts that have
become acclimated to these parts and they
will not therefore freeze down in cold
weather, as all imported nut trees will.
	Now, right here is the ideal home of the
fruit trees. My grandfather, George A.
Smith, set out a splendid orchard of peaches,
pears, apples, apricots and plums.
	The centers of all our blocks are now
ugly weed patches; they offer a field for ro-
tating crops of corn, squash, potatoes, peas,
string beans, greens, carrots, beets, and onions.
	Now for flowers and lawns—the east side
has shown us what can be done with Salt
Lake. But before that, long years ago, oth-
ers blazed the way! Let us hark back to
when James Dwyer planted a rose garden in

