[Column 1]
to remove to Pennsylvania, arrived at
Philadelphia October 6, 1683, and settled
Germantown, now a ward of the city. This
emigration is notable because four of the
emigrants, Gerhard Hendricks, Dirk Op-
dere Graeff, Francis Daniel Pastorins and
Abraham Opden Graep, on April 18, 1688,
sent to the Friends meeting the first public
protest ever made in America against the
holding of slaves; also, because, in 1690,
the first paper mill in America was erected
by William Rittinghuysen, a Dutch emi-
grant. Here was made the paper used by
William Bradford, the earliest printer in
the middle colonies, and because Sarver, the
governor printer of Germantown, printed in
German three quarto editions of the Bible
before an edition in English had been print-
ed in America. Religious and civil liberty
were encouraged by William Penn’s gov-
ernment, but the leaders of society in Phil-
adelphia were not clergymen, as in Massa-
chusetts, but lawyers, like John Dickenson,
and they had great respect for the estab-
lished laws, and thought that all legal meth-
ods for settling difficulties should be ex-
hausted before force was resorted to. This
made them temperate and wise in council
and debate, and gave to their capital city
the reputation for moderation which she
has always held.
	Opposition to the Stamp Act took form in
1765, the act of parliament imposing duties
upon paper and tea was resisted in 1768,
and when, in 1773 the news reached Phila-
delphia that the tea ships were on their
way, the people met in the state house on
October 17 and adopted resolutions which
were unanimously re-adopted by the Boston
meeting on November 5. The tea ship
Polly, commanded by Captain Ayers, from
London, anchored near Philadelphia two
days after Christmas, but was not allowed
to discharge her cargo.
	Carpenter’s Hall was the meeting place of
the first Continental Congress, of 1774, and
the state house that of the second Congress,
which met May 2, 1776, agreed on the reso-
lution declaring that the United Colonies
“are and of right ought to be free and inde-
pendent states.” On July 8, the Declara-
tion of Independence was first publicly read
by John Nixon from the platform of the
observatory which then stood in the square
back of the hall. From the beginning of
the war, Philadelphia was the center of
stirring events. Trenton, Brandywine and
Valley Forge are all within an hour’s ride
from that city. Lord Howe entered Phil-
adelphia September 26, 1777, and Con-
gress fled to New York. The British with-
drew in June, 1778, and Congress then
again returned. When the American army
took possession of the city, Benedict Arnold
was placed in command, and you know the
tragic outcome of his vanity and extrava-
gances. As already stated, in 1785 Con-
gress met in New York, but in May, 1787,
the convention which formed the Constitu-
tion of the United States met in Philadel-
phia, in the state house. Under the federal
Constitution, Philadelphia was the capital
of the United States from 1790 to 1800,
and in the building, still standing at the
southeast corner of Sixth and Chestnut
streets, George Washington was inaugu-
rated as President for a second term, and
John Adams and Thomas Jefferson as
President and Vice President. America
has had a most wonderful growth, and
beautiful cities cover the land, but the natal

