[Column 1]
on the death of John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson, which occurred on the same day—
July 4, 1826—the nation’s birthday. These
with some other literary efforts, marked
Eliza R. Snow’s young womanhood and the
talent for writing and the taste for literary
work was always predominant with her,
though she is known as an expert needle
woman, a neat and thrifty housekeeper, a
teacher and prophetess among her people.
She found her greatest delight in quiet soli-
tude, penning songs for the Saints to sing,
or writing treatises containing words of ad-
monition and encouragement. As a historian
she is also known, having published those
very interesting books, “The Palestine Tour-
sts” and “The Life of Lorenzo Snow,” her
brother. Eliza R. Snow’s poetry is pub-
lished in two volumes and varies in its na-
ture. Her style is doctrinal and lofty rather
than musical and tender. Her great hymn
called “The Invocation,” better known, how-
ever, as “Oh my Father,” would immortal-
ize her name among the Latter-day Saints,
had she written nothing else, but as a song,
“Awake my slumbering minstrel,” is prob-
ably more more popular and musical. Eliza R.
Snow has contributed twenty hymns to the
Latter-day Saint hymn book, most of them
frequently sung in the congregations of the
Saints. Her prose writings, with the ex-
ception of the two books mentioned, are not
in collected form, but most of them are in
the different numbers of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and contain many interesting and
instructive paragraphs. Eliza R. Snow was
born in 1804, in Massachusetts, and her
nature, so full of integrity and spirituality,
was doubtless an heritage from her revolu-
tionary ancestry. In her childhood, her
father moved his family to Ohio and it was
there she and her father’s family accepted
the Gospel. She was a true Saint, as her
long life of vigorous spiritual teaching
proves and bears out her own words when
she so beautifully writes:
“And am determined now to be a Saint,
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones,
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval. And to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.”
	Perhaps the fire of poetic genius has
burned in no woman’s soul more freely than
in the soul of Sarah E. Carmichael. Miss
Carmichael came to Utah with her parents
when quite a child. She was born in New
York. Even as a school girl she wrote
beautiful verses. In fact, her most beau-
tiful poems were written in her young days.
	A little volume of her writings was col-
lected and published by some of her friends
for private distribution. It is now very
rarely seen and is held most precious by
those fortunate enough to own one.
	Her poem, “The Stolen Sunbeam,” which
is the story of the discovery of gold, was
selected by William Cullen Bryant for his
collection of American poetry, thus giving
her a wider field of readers than most of our
literary women attained in early days. Her
beautiful poem, “Dead Roses,” is most ten-
der and touching, and breathes in its last
lines this hopeful thought:
“I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
		Death River,
	Where love proves its moral of Never in Vain;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
		giver,
	And the dead roses gather their incense again.”

