[Column 2]
in 1623 under the name of New Amster-
dam. The first white male child born, on
the island was Jean Vigne, in 1614. The
first white girl, Sarah Rapalje, was born in
1625. Peter Minnit, the first important gov-
ernor of the new colony arrived in 1626,
and from that time the growth of the town
was rapid. In 1652, New Amsterdam was
incorporated as a city, and the next year
was inclosed at the north by a wall of earth
and timber 2340 feet long, on the present site
of Wall Street.
	We know that England, by right of dis-
covery, claimed this territory, as well as that
to the north and south of it, so she did not
encourage any claims of those who had set-
tled upon these lands unless by her own
grants. On March 12, 1664, this whole col-
ony of New Amsterdam was granted, by
Charles IV, then king of England, to his
brother, the Duke of York, and in August of
that year was forcibly seized by a British
fleet. The place was then named New York
in honor of its new owner. The Dutch were
not disposed to submit tamely and without a
struggel to this seizure of what they
deemed their rightful possessions, and in
1673, the Dutch seized it again and renamed
it New Orange, but a year later it was re-
stored to the English—and for good, this
time. An organized government and code
of laws were established in 1691, and on
April 9th of that year the first colonial as-
sembly met in the city. In 1825 the first
newspaper, the New York Gazette, was
founded; in 1730 a fortnightly stage ser-
vice to Philadelphia was established; in 1752
the Royal Exchange was opened at the foot
of Broad Street; in 1754, Kings (now Co-
lumbia) College was chartered and in 1768
the chamber of commerce was organized.
Nowhere is the truth more plain than that
the story of a community is told in the
lives of its inhabitants. The story of Bos-
ton, for instance, deals with the doings of
a community of very earnest men who, for
a century and a half, had no considerable
interests except those connected with poli-
tics and religion. This influence was notice-
able in every phase of life in Massachusetts.
In New York it was quite different. The
people were as diversified in temperament,
interests, religion and principle as they were
united in Boston. The difference is as
marked from the beginning of the history
of the two cities. Social activity, club life
and every phase of commercialism is to be
seen from the beginning in New York. 
There was a peculiarly aristocratic structure
in New York society, which gave many of
its most brilliant names to our nation’s his-
tory, like the Livingstons, Chintons, Schuy-
lers, and many others. There was also more
of the lower strains of humanity in the city
than others of colonial days, and the effect
was most pronounced. There were Dutch
Reformed and Huguenot congregations,
Presbyterians, Catholics, and a large follow-
ing of Episcopalians, each found their own
proper place in New York. The spirit of
resistance to British rule made its appear-
ance in New York at an early date. The
Stamp Act congress was organized in 1865;
so was the league known as the Sons of
Liberty. The Stamp Act was publicly
burned, cargoes of taxed tea were thrown
over-board, a liberty pole was erected on
the common, near the City Hall Park, and
rigorous public demonstrations were made
against the British garrison. One of the
earliest conflicts of the war occurred in John

[Column 3]
Street, between Sons of Liberty and British
troops, on the same day the equestrian statue
of George III, on Bowling Green, was
pulled down and transformed into bullets
for the use of the American army. In the
spring of 1776 the bulk of the patriot army
was massed in New York, and on July 8th
the Declaration of Independence was pub-
licly proclaimed and read to the troops. Af-
ter the battle of Long Island the American
troops were gradually withdrawn, and
passed into the hands of the British, who
held it under rigid military rule until No-
vember 25, 1783, when the last of their
garrison evacuated the city, and the Amer-
can troops took possession. A few weeks
later Washington took farewell of his offi-
cers at Francis Tavern, at the corner of
Broad and Pearl Streets. From 1790 New
York has ranked as the most populous city
in the United States. Of what she is today
we cannot speak, except to say that now, as
from the beginning, the beauty, in fact every
phase of the city’s life, is as varied as the
people themselves. After the birth of the
Union, the selection of a capital was not
easily settled. The north, the south, and the
middle states wanted it. The site at Wash-
ington was selected as a courtesy to the
south. New York, however, was chosen as
the first capital of the young republic. In
January, 1785 (still in the colonial period,
be it remembered), Congress removed from
Philadelphia to New York and met in Fed-
eral Hall, at the corner of Wall and Nassau
Streets, now the site of the United States
sub-treasury. In the same building Wash-
ington was inaugurated as president on
April 30, 1789, and there the first Congress
under the Constitution held its first meet-
ings. New York remained the first capital
for five years, after which Philadelphia
claimed the honor again, and held it until
the permanent removal to Washington.
	Philadelphia. If we must decide upon
any one single city where most interest cen-
tralized during the latter colonial days and
those of the revolution. I think we would
unhesitatingly name “the city of brotherly
love, Philadelphia. In 1636 Queen Chris-
tiana of Sweden, sent a boat of Swedish
colonists to the village of Wiceaco, now a
part of the main city, an Indian town which
also once stood within the present city limits.
In 1677 the Swedes erected a log church
which also served as a fort. In 1700 this
was torn down, and a brick structure erect-
ed on the site known as the old Swedish
Church, which still stands in the southern
part of the city on the banks of the Dela-
ware.
	The Dutch vessel Onrust, with Captain
Hendrickson commanding, explored the
Delaware, in 1623, and in 1651 the Dutch
built Fort Casinni, which was captured by
the Swedes in 1654, retaken by the Dutch
the same year, captured by the English in
1664, surrendered to the Dutch again in
1673, and finally given over to the English
by the treaty of 1674. William Penn’s dep-
uty governor and cousin, Captain William
Markham, arrived at Philadelphia in Oc-
tober, 1681, and Penn’s commissioners in
the early summer of 1682. William Penn
himself, with a large company of Friends,
or Quakers, reached Newcastle on the Del-
aware on October 27, 1682. The City of
Philadelphia had been named, surveyed,
plotted and the lots occupied by some set-
tlers in July, 1682. The Dutch and Ger-
man pioneers who had been invited by Penn


