THE SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT IN ENG-
			LAND.
	The phenomenon of the “Suffragette”—
generic title accorded to the representatives
of the militant movement on behalf of the
woman’s vote in England—has its organized
rival in a non-militant advocacy of the re-
form movement, whose adherents are
termed Suffragists even when respect is pas-
sive; besides these two, there is a third an-
tithetic party, frankly antagonistic to the
vote, who proclaim themselves as Anti-
suffragists. In addition, there is a surviv-
ing residue of English women whose fav-
orite policy is to evade the subject, but who,
if cornered for a definition of their views,
frown or smile, and confess to “not really
care for politics at all.”
	A dozen years ago in London, though the
term “New Woman,” exploited in a more
or less witty problem novel by Sarah
Grande, sounded somewhat stale, Women’s
Suffrage was not in the air current. What
was understood as essentially appertaining
to the matter had been discussed in courtly
fashion the foregone century: Tennyson’s
reflective intellect having bequeathed to
“sweet girl graduates” a sane analysis of
poignant complex questions in the sustained
rhythm, varied with melodic interludes, of
The Princess. To speak of “Women’s
Rights,” a score of years ago, was to recall
the domestic chaos of the Jellaby household,
if not to evoke simultaneously the shade of
Mrs. Pardiggle, whose visitations upon the
homes of the poor were inseparable with
havoc to outstanding articles wrought by
her sweeping train. If Dickens, or if Ten-
nyson, recalled to the scene of earthly vision,
could be asked to translate his impressions
of “The Signs of the Times,” as presented
by the campaign of his aggressive country-
women today, one wonders what creation of
an emancipated “type,” embodied in immor-
tal novel; what revelation of reversal to the
eternal feminine ideal, inspiring enchanting
verse, would be added to the world’s store?
	Though these return not, contemporary
literary opinion on the matter in question is
overtly expressed from time to time. Mr.
G. B. Shaw, the sardonic satirist of that
New England play, The Devil’s Disciple,
who has since, one suspects, become a satir-
ical poseur, has achieved a characteristic ex-
position of the subject in a stage-piece enti-
tled Fanny’s First Play. The acknowledged
head of the Anti-suffrage League is that
serene star of society and cultured conven-
tion, Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Miss Marie
Corelli has expressed a doubt as to the av-
erage British woman being a responsible
claimant for the imperial vote. Ouida,
whose latter volume of Critical Essays re-
vealed her to be secondary in intellectual
acumen to no predecessor amongst English-
speaking sister writers, left a word about
the matter prior to her lonely passing:—it
was a logical statement to the effect that the
assumption of' “equality” in certain senses
between the differently organized beings


