EARLY LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.
	The hardships of pioneer life are not gen-
erally very conducive to the cultivation of
the finer qualities of the mind and soul. The
making of new homes and conquering desert
wastes naturally calls forth all one’s energy,
and the tired work-worn body would nat-
urally require all the faculties of the mind
to assist in providing life’s necessities. For
many years after the settlement of these val-
leys, there was a dearth of literary work,
and it is not hard to find the names of those
few who found solace and comfort in the
use of the pen. The pioneers of Utah are a
very different type of people, to those who
generally seek new homes in unclaimed ter-
ritory. They were, as is well known, a peo-
ple of strong religious sentiment and innate
refinement. There were many men and
women among them of high intellectual at-
tainment. The pioneers brought with them
across the plains a printing press, and within
three years after their advent into the desert,
established a newspaper—The Deseret News
—and founded a university. In the early
columns of this paper and the Millennial
Star, printed in Liverpool, England, may be
found an occasional poem or article by Eliza
R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Hannah T. 
King, and Sarah E. Carmichael. There was
established as early as 1854, a literary so-
ciety known as the Philosophical Society, “a
gathering for social, literary, and general
cultivation of mind and manners.” This so-
ciety was founded by Lorenzo Snow and the
meetings were held in his home, a handsome
residence for those days on the corner of
South Temple and Third East streets, known
to most of this generation, as the Clawson
residence.
	Poems and prose articles prepared for this
society often found their way to the columns
of The Deseret News, and thus was given an
incentive for the cultivation of literary tal-
ent. 
	Eliza R. Snow ranks as our first literary
woman. We know that as a girl she was
the author of a prize story published in
Gody’s Ladies Magazine, and was also re-
quested by a committee to write a requiem


