[Column 2]
One poem of Miss Carmichael’s which
was not included in the volume, found its
place some years later in the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.” It was inscribed to President
Brigham Young and was written in the
Bowery, August 8, 1857. In her girlhood
she was a great admirer of the President
and his leadership, as were all the people,
but later she did not associate herself with
the Saints and found a circle of friends out-
side the faith. She married Dr. William-
son, a successful practicing physician, and
not long after her marriage she was seized
with a mental malady. Thus the promise
of her youth for a brillant career in the
literary world was not fulfilled. The poem,
“Dead Roses,” was also not in the collection
but was printed in a daily paper at the time
of her death.
	Emmeline B. Wells may well be classed
among our early literary women, having
written a great many stories and poems
which she styles fragments, in her early days,
even when a little girl. Her first published
poem, however, is called “Friendship,” and
was printed in the Millennial Star in 1844.
About 1853 she wrote an ode to Deseret in
which the wind on the desert is beautifully
described. Neither of these early poems, as
well as many later ones, are in her book
called “Musings from Memory,” the only
collection so far of her writings.
	In the hymn book we have four of her
songs, the best known of them, “Our Moun-
tain Home So Dear.” Her poetic nature is
shown in almost all her writings, whether
prose or poetry, but probably her greatest
poetic achievement is one of her last poems
written after she had attained the age of
84 years, for the dedication of the Maeser
Memorial, at Provo, May 30, 1912. When
one considers the long life work and the
advanced age of the author, to have written
so beautiful a poem, of such length, is cer-
tainly quite wonderful. The late A. C. Nel-
son, immediately after hearing it read, con-
gratulated the author and said he consid-
ered it a perfect epic, as did also Professors
Brimhall, Cummings, and others. The
poem is called an Ode. It contains nineteen
verses. The style is lofty, reminiscent and
prophetic, as these few lines will testify.
“Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty moun-
		tain walls,
As in our fancy vividly they’re singing,
What shadows o’er us would these memories
		cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart re-
		call—
Now, glad, now minor chords of music sing-
		ing.
“Some who are old today, and once were
		young,
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world,
That here, in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.
	Mrs. Wells’ literary work has been con-
fined almost altogether to the columns of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the periodical
which she has edited and published for the
past forty years, and within its pages are
stories, editorials, histories, treatises, and
verses, all showing the versatility of the
author. Mrs. Wells is an adept in the art
of letter writing, as hundreds of men and

[Column 3]
women throughout the land can testify,
an art almost obsolete in this day of type-
writers, telephones, telegrams and wireless.
Born in New England and reared by a
puritanic mother, she also is of that strong
type of womanhood which faces all oppres-
sion for a cause she feels to be just, and
deems no sacrifice too great in the cause of
righteousness. Her artistic, sensitive, and
romantic temperament, has made life’s
struggle doubly hard, but she has valiantly
fought the battle, and, the Lord be praised,
is with us yet to give us words of encour-
agement and love. Mrs. Hannah T. King
contributed largely to Utah literature in
some fine prose writings. She also read
some poetic effusions before the Polysoph-
ical Society. She published two small books
in paper covers, which are much treasured
by the few who possess them. One is a
collection of verses called “Songs of the
Heart,” and the other is a book of essays
called “Women of the Scriptures.”
	Mrs. King was an English lady of fine
education and accomplishments. She was
most dignified in manner, and took quick
offense at any remark or act in her pres-
ence which in any degree flavored of rude-
ness or ill-manners. Her later writings
were also confined to the columns of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, to which little paper
she was a frequent contributor. Mrs. King
was born in Cambridge, England, the home
of the great university, and she was reared
among its classic shades and bowers. In
her youth she published two books, one for
girls and one for boys, called “The Toilet”
and “The Era” respectively. She was also
a fine letter writer, and cherished among
her many letters from noted people, one
from the great author, Victor Hugo.
	Hannah Cornaby is another gifted Eng-
lish woman who joined the Latter-day
Saints in her early girlhood. She was born
in Rose Hall, an ancient mansion on the
banks of the river Waverly, in Suffolk,
England, and was reared in the Episcopal
church. In her one published book, called
“Autobiography and Poems of Hannah
Cornaby,” she narrates in beautiful style her
whole life, which is more interesting than
fiction, for it abounds in inspiration and
faith. Mrs. Cornaby was a member and
contributed to the Polysophical Society, and
at one time a regular contributor to the
EXPONENT. She was a modest, retiring
woman, and sweet to look upon. The
writer shall never forget a summer morn-
ing spent with Mrs. Cornaby in her wild
and picturesque garden in the town of
Spanish Fork. Here, in this garden, were
written many of Mrs. Cornaby’s poems, and
she loved it very dearly. She was a dear
sweet woman, and the following verse from
her pen is like her.
	“I never wished for wealth or fame
		For I have understood
	How poor and valueless are these
		Compared with being good.”
	Emily Hill Woodmansee, still another of
our English women who has given many
splendid thoughts clothed in poetic phrase
to the people, found place for her ex-
pressive thoughts through the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and Deseret News. She has
written twenty of our finest hymns, and
her songs are sung in many lands. Her
themes are mostly religious, and her style
lofty. Whenever she was in doubt or fear,
sufficiently to resort to divine guidance, she


