[Column 1]
Josiah Quincy said: “Civil independence was
as truly their object as religious liberty.”
	In the year 1630 Puritan colonists came
from England under the leadership of
Thomas Dudley and John Winthrop, and
founded the town of Boston. The new-
comers first called it Trimount, from the
three peaks which Beacon Hill originally
showed. The name was afterward changed
to Boston for old Boston in England, in
honor of Winthrop’s leaders, who came
from that place. For nearly two centuries
Boston remained under the simple form of
a town government by all the citizens as-
sembled in “town meeting.” The city char-
ter was not granted until 1832. It is impos-
sible to give a very general description of 
the city, but the original site, with its unin-
viting natural features and what the people 
made of it, is a fairly good indication of
their courage, energy and ability. Boston
was built on a pear-shaped peninsula in-
dented by coves and bordered by salt
marshes. Its surface was rocky, abrupt and
irregular, and such it was until after the
Revolution. The streets were narrow and
crooked, many of them merely lanes and
alleys. The buildings scattered and de-
tached, only four being of stone, in 1776.
Of these, Kings chapel yet remains. Com-
paratively few were of brick, the latter in-
cluding Fanuel Hall, the town (now called
old State house), Christ’s Church and the
Old South Meeting House—still treasured
land-marks.
	At the time of the Revolution Boston was
the richest and most powerful and populous
city in the colonies. Yet it contained only
2,000 buildings and less than 20,000 inhab-
tants. In and near this old town were en-
acted the first stirring scenes in our war for
independence. From here the British went
out to meet the ‘embattled farmers of Lex-
ington and Concord, and fought the battle
of Bunker Hill, followed by the seige of
Boston, and the evacuation forced by Wash-
ington, March 17, 1776.
	From its foundation, the tone of society
in Boston was serious, owing to the Puritan
influence. She was inclined to regard her
rival cities as frivolous in their pursuits,
owing to her advantages. Situated upon so
large and excellent a harbor, Boston has al-
ways been a great commercial and industrial
city. The first bank in America, historians
say, was established in Boston, in 1686. Ed-
ucationally, she has always taken first rank.
In colonial days, to which we must confine
ourselves at this time, certainly no other
city wielded a more powerful influence in
 the shaping of our young nation’s destiny,
than did the chief city of the old Bay State.
	New York. The original Indian name
of New York City was Manhattan. The
first European visitor was Gioiasini Vera-
zani, who entered New York Bay in 1525,
but he made no landing. The real discov-
erer and explorer of those regions was
Heindrich Hudson, a mariner employed by
a Dutch trading company. He explored
New York Bay and the great river which
bears his name, in 1609, in his little ship, the
Half Moon. Ten years later Adrian Block
visited Manhattan, made a landing and es-
tablished a trading station. In 1614, States
General of Holland chartered the United
New Netherland Company to engage in
trade at Manhattan, and a fort and trad- 
ing house were built on the southern point
of the island, and called Fort Amsterdam.
A permanent village settlement was effected

