CITY PRIDE.
		Alice Merrill Horne.
	I hold as a fundamental principle of good
government that each citizen, whether rich
poor, sick, well, old or young, should be re-
quired by the commonwealth of which he
or she is a necessary unit, to do his or her
just portion of labor in making and sustain-
ing a healthful and beautiful city. Our city
has not yet come into a full understanding of
her own. She has individual moral and
physical responsibility. We ought to have
efficient municipal officers. Further than
that, we have an individual duty to give
aid, so far as we may, singly and unitedly,
in the solution of these difficult problems.
	Though we are far from the Millennium,
may we not, as a united body of women,
hasten the reign of righteousness by, a
proper use of the suffrage? Is it not pos-
sible for us to use that sacred trust so sa-
credly that no self-seeking man shall pre-
sume to rear his head before a public office?
	What would you think of an ordinance-
to compel residents or landholders to keep
out weeds? What result would follow com-
pulsory house-screening, stable-screening,
and garbage-screening for a few years?
	What follows weekly moving of garbage
and manure from premises? We look upon
each citizen as an asset in the municipal cor-
poration. The citizens constitute the mu-
nicipal corporation’s greatest wealth. She 
has no more important problem than to pro-
vide the best means for preserving the
health and thus lengthening the lives of her
citizens. Those most interested along-these
lines prescribe a clean and beautiful city.
	“Man is that he might have joy.” So
spoke the prophet, and we accept it as true
philosophy also.
	That man might have joy, the home is
made, the city is founded, municipal gov-
ernment is established, and what, tell me,
gives man more joy than a clean and beau-
tiful home, a clean and beautiful yard, a
clean and beautiful city? These indeed
make life sweet and build a perfect setting
for Godliness.
	I would like to bring to the hearts of
those present the opportunity that this won-
derful Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association has squarely before it,
even the privilege to organize and utilize an
enormous amount of energy (that is daily
wasted, misdrected, or lost) toward en-
riching soil, destroying weeds, placing, trees
and hedges, planting vegetable gardens, de-
signing flower beds and window boxes,
making lawns.
	We could, if we would, make of this city
a veritable garden of Eden. Let us set
aside beauty for a moment and become sor-
did. It would pay—alas that is the measure
into which everything must fit, for we are
in a Commercial process and at the com-
mercial stage. Yes, it would pay! A yard,
six rods by ten, this season produced fully
$50 in fruit and vegetables, and gave the


