[Column 2]
Salt Lake. Roses must not be planted
singly, but in rose gardens, and then we
have roses indeed.
	Have you forgotten the big lawn the Car-
rington girls made, irrigated and tended?
I think I sniff now the lovely, pure white
climbing roses on the south wall of the old
home—and there were the great red pe-
onies, too. Can you think back to the great
trees of white and purple lilacs, and the cab-
bage roses, all abloom in Grandmother Mer-
rill’s dooryard? Who has not been made
glad with a bunch of rare chrysanthemums
or roses from some wonderful flower gar-
den? On the old Irving school block, you
may find the finest General Jocks, asters and
sweet peas.
	Then there are the wonderful old moun-
tain willows—but few remain. A few re-
mained standing in the old University
grounds—now Salt Lake High school. How
I loved to pass near them, but alas the day
that I found the most beautiful ones among
them the monarchs of the grounds (and
there were many trees that were indeed
lovely) lying broken, helpless to lift their
dainty green, which always were the first
to open their buds in spring. Think of de-
stroying a half block of trees with a history
just to make a place in which boys and
girls might drill and play when a few blocks
away a hundred blocks lay empty, except of
sagebrush! Trees that, if they could speak,
could tell the story of the red men, of hunt-
ers with the flint and arrow, of dry, parched
desert places, of the entrance to this valley
of the pale face, of the first breaking of vir-
gin soil, the birth of irrigation, the hiding
of the desert’s nakedness beneath a mantle
of green—in a word, sentinels, witnesses of
all that our fathers have done. Yea, year
by year the grand old willows had lov-
ingly reached out in newer beauty, making
shadier seats under their wonderful willow
green tops—seats you and I have sought
for study periods. And now my heart
ached, my voice choked with tears when my
startled vision beheld them ruthlessly cut
down, destroyed forever. Now no re-
pentant hand could succor them or recall
the work of the cruel ax. Few remaining
trees were spared. Three stand on the
north side, just over the sidewalk, and one
on the west. They have, it is true, been
butchered, cut out of all true shape, but they
still retain the same wonderful color, the
same tender artistic feeling.
	We have but a few treasures left, a few
of the old trees, let us care for them and
make a beautiful setting for them. Shall we
then pull down the ugly fences, lay out
good walks, make lawns, plant rose gar-
dens, shrubs, flowers, orchards, vineyards,
and kitchen gardens? Let us do it now, and
make a beginning on our garden of Eden.
We have a beautiful city, by the inspiration
of God she has been set upon hills, slopes
that look out on a wonderful inland sea.
She is guarded and girded around by
mighty mountains, crowned with everlasting
snows, veiled with marvelous shades of
blue. She is blessed with clear, cooling
streams, fresh from ten thousand springs.
Her soils vary from sandy, graveled, loamy
to clayey earth and all can be made to grow
some lovely thing.
	Can we honestly lift our eyes in praise and
thanksgiving to God for these blessings and
permit the very earth under our feet, our
own inheritance, the sod encompassing our


