READ BEFORE THE REAPERS CLUB
SEP. 1897.
	The beginning of the 16th Century found
Scotland suffering from domestic broils
which often led to war and bloodshed.
	The house of Hamilton contended for the
regency during the minority of James the
V. and resisting their claims were the
Clans of, Stuart and Douglas After a.
severe struggle of many years the regency
was given to the Douglas faction; and
quoting Miss Benger "Under their admin-
istration might was right.” Armed men
infested the halls of justice, and although
exempted from foreign war, the barons
maintained a petty warfare which in its
consequences was infinitely more calami-
tous. Each insulated castle inspired dis-
trust. The forest districts were occupied
by hordes of banditti; even in populous
towns the citizens were often disturbed by
the alarum bell, or trumpet calling to arms.
Every species of outrage was committed
with impunity upon the weaker sex;
throughout Scotland there, was no sanctuary
for innocence, no tribunal of justice. And
added to these troubles were the religious
dissensions caused by the rise of the Ref-
ormation, and the consequent hatred exist-
ing between the Reformers and the Papists.
in the year 1542 Henry. VIII. was on the
throne of England vigorously encouraging
Protestantism, and with the clergy as tools,
hurling defiance at Pope Clemant VII, and
his orders of excomunication.
	Amidst all this disquiet was born, Dec-
ember 7, 1542, Mary Stuart, as Bell says
“ the loveliest and most unfortunate wo-
man that ever lived.”
	Daughter of James the V.of Scotland and
Mary of Guise. She was their third child,
two sons having died in infancy. When but
seven days old her father James the V. died,
leaving her the legacy of a kingdom dis-
tracted with civil wars and threatened with
foreign invasion. The Earl of Arran was
appointed regent, and the infant queen was
crowned when nine months old. Henry
VIII. prepared to unite the two kingdoms
by marrying his son Edward to Mary. But
this offer was rejected by the Scots, and a
closer alliance was formed between Scot-
land and France for their mutual protec-
tion against England. Mary’s mother was
a woman of high intellectual and moral
qualities. As a foreigner she had little
sympathy with the parties around her but
sought to unite them. She was ambitious
for her daughter’s welfare; and when
through the influence of her brothers the
Princes of Guise, a treaty of marriage was
proposed between the Dauphin, son of
Henry II.and Catherine D,’ Medecis, it was
received by her with great joy and as part
of the treaty the queen was to be educated
in France, until the marriage could be sol-
emnized. For two years after her corona-
tion she was permitted to remain in Ster-
ling Castle under the control of the Earls of
Livingstone and Mar. Later being threat-
ened by the approach of the English Army
was removed for greater security to Dum-
barton Castle.
	Here her education was strictly attended
to. and over nurse, governess and tutors,
presided her mother, and knowing that it
would be more rapidly advanced in a class,
she selected four girls about her daughter’s
age, each bearing the name of Mary. First
came Mary Beaton, daughter of the Cardi-
[Column 2]
nal, Mary Fleming, daughter of Lord Flem-
ing, the third, Mary Livingstone and last
Mary Seaton whose father Lord Seaton was
a faithful friend of the royal family. She
remained at Dumbarton for three years
with these chosen companions, and at this
early age had commenced the study of Latin
among her other lessons, and by her apti-
tude in learning, and her gentleness and
docility, soon won the hearts of all around
her. In her sixth year she left Scotland
for France. “ From the hour of her birth,”
says Miss Benger, “until her embarkation
for France the heiress of James V. had been
surrounded as a prisoner with sentinels
and fortified walls, the symbols of subjec-
tion and captivity.”
	She arrived at Brest in July 1548, where
she was received with great honor. In
company with the king’s daughters she
was sent to a convent to be instructed, and
here was implanted within her mind that
ever abiding faith in Catholicism. So read-
ly did she comply with whatever was re-
quired of her, and so zealous was she in her
religious duties, that the nuns declared
Mary Stuart would be a saint on earth; and
began to cherish ambitious hopes that her
life would be a religious one. These re-
ports reaching the ears of Henry II. caused
her removal to the palace. Her Mary’s
were still her constant companions, and the
most eminent men of the day were her
instructors. She studied Latin under
Buchanan, the historian, one of the most
learned men of the 16th Century, poetry
under Ronsard, in which she had decided
talent, as the few poems which have been
preserved will show. French she spoke as
fluently as her native tongue and was
equally skilled in music and dancing.
	Some writers declare the court of Henry II.
surpassed all other times in looseness of
morals, and even say that Mary Stuart im-
bibed a disregard for chastity that influenced
her actions in after life. I would not ex-
cuse the life of Henry II.but ask you to re-
member that a monarch does not mirror a
people, and that his court appears bright
indeed compared a little later with that of
Charles IX. under Catherine, and although
his queen was set aside for Diana, we re-
member Elizabeth and the Earl of Leices-
ter; the Scottish court where woman of
rank did not hesitate to live openly with
nobles on whom they had no legal claim,
as instance Marian, the Mistress of Cardinal
Beaton. I do not wish to palliate these
crimes, but to add, that among the galaxy
of the talented men and women gathered at
the court, and so great a number has never
appeared on one scene, before nor since,
there must have been much that was up-
right and moral. This was the epoch of
learning in France, and it was considered
necessary for those desiring a finished, liber-
al education to resort there. Many women
of rank were under the tuition of scholars
and orators. Such names as Margaret of
Savoy, sister of the king, Anne of Este,
and Margaret of Navarre, all women of
superior education and undoubted morals;
of the former it is said she governed an em-
pire not inferior to that of the king, as she
reigned over the minds and affections of his
subjects, who in expressing their admiration
for her wisdom and uprightness gave her the
title of Minerva. History has given us the
lives of these women and they are noble.
Mary’s marriage with Francis was solemn-
ized with the greatest splendor, the festivi-
ties lasting for fifteen days. Never had
such magnificence been seen in Paris.
[Column 3]
	Mary was in her sixteenth year, and all
writers unite in praise of her beauty which
did not consist in the regularity of her fea-
tures alone, but in the soul that illuminated
them, and in the charm and sweetness of
her manner. She was above the ordinary
height, finely proportioned and in her
movements graceful and dignified. Her
complexion clear with beautiful brown
hair and eyes. Brantome compares her to
the sun at midday and declares that no man
ever saw her without losing his heart. It
was on this, the occasion of her marriage,
that great offence was given Elizabeth,
then on the throne of England. The arms
of England were placed with those of Scot-
land and France upon the royal Banners,
and Francis and Mary were given the titles
king and Queen of England; Elizabeth
never forgot this nor that Mary had ardent
supporters in the Pope and the powerful
political party of France, led by her uncles.
When we consider the claims of Mary Stu-
art to the crown of England they do not
appear so presumptive. As grand-niece of
Henry VIII. who had illegitimatized his
daughters Mary and Elizabeth; after the
death of his son Edward, Mary Stuart was
next in succession. Her claims were then
urged by the Scottish parliament, but with-
out avail. One year after the marriage of
Francis and Mary, Henry II. was killed in
a tournament and they were king and queen
for the short period of seventeen months.
Then Francis died leaving the young wife
a widow at seventeen. Charles IX. was
appointed king with his mother Catherine,
as regent. She made no effort to conceal
her dislike for Mary Stuart, whom she had
always opposed, and only through motives
of policy endured.
	Political and religious changes were now
rapidly taking place. Mary’s supporters
were no longer in the ascendant and she
was unfortunate in being an object of
suspicion to England, Scotland and France.
To Elizabeth who looked upon her as a
rival, and if opportunity presented an usur-
per of her throne. To Scotland for her Cath-
olic religion, as the Reformers were now in
the majority there. To France, who dread-
ed a foreign alliance, especially with Spain.
She realized that with all these changes
France was no longer her home, and that
duty and allegiance required her to return
to Scotland. In sorrow she departed from
France that had been a happy home to her
