HAWAII.

		“ON the heaving of the ocean
		Like a loving mother’s breast,
	Lie the islands of Hawaii
		As an infant in its rest. 
	Sleep sweetly Hawaii
			The murmur of waves
		Is echo of music from coral formed caves.”
	Twenty years ago Hawaii was a little
land of mystery. The means of visiting it
were scanty, while the volcano and inter-
island trips were difficult and somewhat
dangerous. Mark Twain’s “Roughing
it” did much to awaken American enthus-
iasm, toward seeing and claiming the de-
lights of that “pretty little string of
pearls,” as Joaquin Miller calls them.
	“A string of rare and beautiful pearls,
in the sapphire center of the great American
sea. Some day we shall gather up this

[Column 2]
precious string of pearls and throw it mer-
rily about the neck of the beautiful big wo-
man, who has her handsome head on the
outside of the big American dollar, and then
they will be called the beautiful American
islands.”
	Until 1883 there was no regular round
trip steamer service, but since then the
semi-monthly steamers have carried a
steady growth of tourist trade until in 1889
and 1890 over one hundred first class pas-
sengers passed over the route each month.
	“There is but one Hawaii,” and but
one ocean whose smooth Pacific waters are
suggestive of Aegean beauty. Isles and
ocean are a two-fold enticement to tourist
and health seeker. Twenty years ago the
trip was accompanied by few of the advan-
tages, which are the outcome of social
growth and adjustment; but the discom-
forts that attended the necessarily long,
rocking voyage at that time, were quickly
compensated for, by the novel experiences
found in contact with this new and inter-
esting people, and the bewildering delights
of this peep into nature’s own garden.
Homes so beautiful, cosying and nestling
amidst such a variety of tropical growth
and bloom, bewildering and delighting with
the extravagance of color and odor. Nuu-
ani Avenue, the main street of Hono-
lulu threads up a gentle incline to
the sublime glory of the “Pali,” that
wonderful gorge in the backbone of Oahu.
Two thousand feet below the waters throb
and surge on the bosom of those fair
Aleutian Isles, from its precipitous verge
amidst its cloud-draped peaks the view is
impressive and inspiring, and away down
there where the tide is flowing and ebbing
is love and lovers, is joy and sorrow, and
life and death. Afar off is the gracefully
curved coast line where the differing green
of land and ocean meet and blend; there is
the shimmer and sheen of hills and valleys
in their luxuriant fern clad beauty, and the
entire romantic panoramic landscape spread-
ing its mantle far, far out until the round-
ing line of the Isle on the opposite side
loses itself in the gray sand and mist of
beach and sky. Up this lovely incline to
the “Pali,” or on the white beach whose
sands are packed and hardened by the lap-
ping waves the native equestrians are
at their best. The natives all ride well and
the side saddle is an object of contempt.
Astride their fleet-footed ponies, bare feet
in the stirrups and gay streamers floating
on either side, head and neck bedecked
with brilliant flowers, the native woman is
attractive, picturesque and daring. This
primitive and conspicuous costume has been
superseded to a great extent by the tasteful
short skirt, bloomer and gaiter, and on the
heel of the latter is sometimes seen the
pretty but cruel little spur flashing in the
sunlight.
	They are usually happy and hospitable,
with native cordiality sharing with their
visitor their calabash of “Poi.” To one
uninitiated the question will probably arise
whether to slight the hospitality of host or
hostess and refuse this peculiar “staff of
life,” or partake thereof in defiance of in-
clination and appetite and thereby win their
admiration and regard. The taro from
which the poi is made is a vegetable very
like the Indian turnip. It is cultivated in
“lois” (patches of standing water) and
cooked by steam process in underground
ovens or holes, lined with hot stones
After several hours steaming it is removed,
stripped of its rough skin, thrown into a

[Column 3]
large trough and pounded, kneaded and
pounded again to a spongy, doughy mass, then
set aside in calabashes to ferment for pala-
table eating with any of the many varieties
of delicious fish with which they may easily
supply their simple larders. In swimming,
diving and surf riding they seem to merely
play with the waves. Babes but a few
months old are taken upon their mother’s
shoulders and taught to love the water and
as they grow stronger, to ride upon the
waves on the daring surf board. While
American thoughts and customs are no
longer exotic yet the past with its myths
and legends, its customs and ceremonies,
while not paramount influences—still they
are dear to every Hawaiian heart.
	The gentle climate lends an influence to
good nature with a tendency to indolence
and deterioration.
	They are excessively fond of flowers and
music. Often memory recalls the balmy
moonlit evenings, the groups of dark-eyed,
dusky-skinned boys and girls decorated
with garlands of fragrant flowers, their
dreamy-toned voices rising in melody,
mingling with the mystical song of the
waves, and too, keeping time and tune
with their graceful movements in the
voluptuous Hula dance. Midst such
scenes we may so easily idealize them with
their dark beauty and languorous grace,
beneath tropical stars and night blooming
Cereus. Their feasts given in honor of
weddings, births, arrivals and departures,
are great occasions. The bride usually
dressed in white “holoku,” (mother hub-
bard) gaily decorated with blossoms of
brightest hues, sits on a fern carpeted floor,
and partakes of the roasted pig and poi
with the same eager appetite evinced by
her guests seated like Turks around her.
Upon occasions of death too a feast is sup-
plied and for days is heard rising over the
hills and floating on the ocean-blown winds
the loud, wailing “uwe” of the mourners
weird and uncanny in effect.
	Hawaii, “fair daughter of the ocean,”
is a world of strange pleasures and experi-
ences.  The beauties of cliff and waterfall,
the weird ruggedness of crater and coral
reef, the existence of human nature in its
aborginal simplicity, its generosity, ignor-
ance and innate love of beauty, will well
reward time and study.
	Her industries, commercial develop-
ments and political status, are generally
known, so much has been written thereon.
Of the details of their humble lives, their
habits, superstitions and language, so much
of interest can always be told.
	Heart and memory will forever hold,
tender, loving and grateful thoughts for the
dark friends of twenty years ago among
whom were spent four years of teaching
and being taught many of life’s serious
lessons.
			M. A. LAMBERT.
	Written for the U. W. P. C.


MISS GRACE PATTON, State Superinten-
dent of Public Schools for Colorado, is a
member of the Faculty of the State Agri-
cultural School at Ft. Collins. Her politi-
cal hobby is proportional representation.

	A BILL to licence the social evil is pend
ing in Oregon. Oregon women are send-
ing strong protests to the Legislature.
These attempts will continue to be made
from time to time, until women have a
vote.


