THE SILK INDUSTRY.

	THERE is probably no industry that we
could have established among us that would
be more beneficial to the poorer classes of
people than silk culture. The work is 
comparatively light, and the capital neces-
sary to produce the cocoons and reeling the
silk is trifling.
	Our climate is remarkably well adapted
to the growth of the mulberry tree; much
of our soil contains more or less alkali, and
this has the effect of shortening the life of
the peach and almond trees, but this does
not seem to be the case with the mulberry
tree. It thrives here to a wonderful ex-
tent indeed. I have heard Europeans say
the mulberry will make a greater growth in  
one year here, than in six years in Europe.
Although this is probably an exaggeration,
it is nevertheless true, that if the success of 
the silk industry depends upon the success-
ful raising of the mulberry, success in that 
line would be already assured.
	Many mulberry trees have been planted
here, and many of them are in existance
now. Our climate is perhaps not less per-
fectly adapted to the growth of the silk 
worm. This has been proven to a demon-
stration, as it is attested by the fact that we 
have on hand now in this county about
eight hundred pounds of cocoons which
have been produced here, but for want of
a market could not be disposed of.
	Many people have learned how to care
for the silkworm, but not being able to dis-
pose of their cocoons, and not being able to
reel them or to put them into marketable
shape they have become discouraged, and
the only hope for the continuance and the 
development of this industry is either to
find a market for our cocoons, or to learn
how to reel them and to put the silk 
into a marketable shape.
	With this idea in view we have been
working and experimenting all winter, and
we have concluded that with a little in-
struction and experience we can make reel-
ing a success, and we can put our silk in a 
shape that will place it in the market. I
took some twist which we had made to
a tailor of this city, and after working with 
it he pronounced it good. At a trifling
cost for machinery, I am satisfied that the
silk can be worked up into many useful
articles, sewing silk, lace, neckties etc.,
can be made and that of silk of our own 
manufacture.
	Perhaps I may be considered an enthu-
siast on the silk question, but when I look
about me and see the thousands of young 
people that are growing up around me, and

[Column 2]
realize that the husbands and fathers are
struggling on the farms to sustain their
loved ones, and that there seems to be so 
few things that they can raise which will
command a ready sale and enable them to
obtain means for buying clothing and other
cash articles; when I realize that four 
pounds of cocoons that are worth only four 
dollars, can be worked up into a pound of
silk which will be worth eight dollars; that 
this silk will command a ready sale for 
cash and that the work can be done by the 
women and children, and at the same time
be light, and pleasant, and profitable.
	When I realize this may I not be pardon-
ed for being an enthusiast? Is it any won-
der that I have spent many anxious days
and sleepless nights endeavoring to solve
the problem of putting our silk in a market-
able shape?
	In my mind's eye I can see before me a 
vast field of good opening up. I see how a 
people may become self-sustaining; how
the widow and the fatherless may be found
employment that will make them no longer
dependents and paupers, but enable them to 
hold up their heads in the consciousness
that they are self-supporting. I see the 
possibility of adding to our list of exports,
another article which will assist in stopping
that constant drain of money that goes out 
to pay for the articles we import.
	In conclusion, Sister Alger, the President
of the Silk Association of St. George, has
secured land for planting out mulberry
trees, which we trust will be a blessing in 
the future. Now let us say that we desire
to enlist the services, and we invite the co-
operation of all interested in the welfare of 
our growing State, and her growing in us-
tries, to aid us in making the industry a
success. The State gives us encouragement
and aid; the silk commission is laboring
with its might, and now let the people not 
slacken their efforts.
	Don't refuse to raise more cocoons be-
cause of the discouragement of the past,
but believe, with us, that the "darkest
hour is just before the dawn."
	Let this year see a great increase in the 
production of cocoons, and believe that the 
way will open up so that they will be a 
blessing and a profit to us.
