THE GENERAL CONFERENCE

	THE annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held
in the Tabernacle in this city, commencing
Sunday, April 4th at 10 a. m. and closing
Tuesday, April 6th. President George Q.
Cannon presiding the first two days, Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff not being able to
attend the services until the third day.
The people were very desirous of seeing
President Woodruff in his place on the
stand and of hearing his voice in the Con-
ference, and doubtless great faith was ex-
ercised in his behalf and on Tuesday morn-
ing, April 6th when the President of the
Church appeared the assembly rose enmasse
and saluted him silently with the waving
of handkerchiefs. A great wave of emo-
tion seemed to pervade the house. The
President responded to the salutation with,
“God bless you all;” and afterwards when
he arose to speak an intense sense of satis-
faction shone from the countenances of the
multitude.
	President Woodruff was the first speaker
His remarks were as follows:
	"I want to say to my brethren and sis-
ters and friends that through your prayers
and faith I am here this morning. I have
been considerably under the weather, as
the saying is, for a little time past, but I
am glad to meet with you and feel to say a
few words to you this morning. I know it
would not be wisdom for me to occupy a
great deal of time or say a great deal.
First, I will say I have followed the re-
ports and sayings of the Apostles and
Elders from the commencement of the Con-
ference until this morning; what I have
not read myself has been read to me, and it
has been a great deal of consolation to me
I want to say to the Latter-day Saints the
God of heaven is at work carrying out His
purposes in fulfillment of revelation and
prophecy and inspiration, which He has
given through His Prophets and Apostles
and Patriarchs from the commencement of
the work until this hour. And the Lord
is not going to fail on His part in any of
these things. It is for us as a people to do
our duty, to labor for ourselves and for our
fellowmen; to occupy the time that we
have here, to the best advantage we can, in
trying to honor the Priesthood and people,
to build up the kingdom of God, to set a
good example, and to establish righteous-
ness. And I want to say to the young
men and maidens, my young brethren and
sisters, who may be present here this morn-

[Column 2]
ing, I want you to make your aim high
and realize that you have your generation,
that you have your times granted in con-
nection with your fathers and mothers in
the building up of the kingdom of God.
Do not spend your time in the follies and
frivolities of this world, but try to improve
your time. You occupy one of the most
important dispensations and generations
God has ever given to men, and I have a
great interest for the rising generation. I
know for myself and not for another, that
the Lord has raised up our children, our
sons and daughters, to stand in the foot-
steps of their fathers in the winding-up
scene of the great work of the Zion of our
God. I realize that they do not compre-
hend, in fact there are very few who com-
prehend today the position we occupy, and
the responsibility we are under to God
and the Holy Priesthood, who have raised
us up and placed us here in the midst of a
generation of men and women, children of
men, upon whose heads are going to rest
great responsibilities, in the great events
which are to follow each other in quick
succession in the day in which we live.
	As far as I am concerned, I do not know,
it has never been revealed to me, why my
life has been preserved, while the Lord has
taken away Prophets and Apostles and
other men of God, who have spent three or
four, ten or twelve, fourteen or fifteen
years in the capacity of the building up of
the kingdom of God. Our Savior himself
was only three years and a half in passing
through his experiences of teaching the
people, the organization of the kingdom of
God, the choosing of the Twelve Apostles,
His crucifixion, His death and His resur-
rection. The Prophet Joseph spent about
fourteen years translating the Book of Mor-
mon, the history of the Jews, the House of
Israel on this continent, and the dealings of
God with that people. He performed that
work and brought forth the book of Doc-
trine and Covenants, a code of revelations
as great in language and principles, and in
the account of as great and important events
as have ever occurred on the earth. He
performed all this work in about fourteen
years and a half. My brethren, the Apos-
tles, two or three quorums, have passed
away since my ordination nearly all but
myself up to a certain peroid, have passed.
I am not speaking these things boastfully,
but I am here, and it is my duty while I
remain here, to try to say something that
will be of interest to the Latter-day Saints.
I am interested in your welfare, in the wel-
fare of Zion. It is the Zion of God, planted
here by the hand of God, and the Lord has
guided and directed it, and will continue to
do so.
	You have Apostles with you, you have
High Priests and Seventies, and the other
bodies of Priesthood, and they have great
responsibility resting upon them, in the
capacity in which they labor. I have a
great, desire, what time I do live, to see the
people progress, to become united, to com-
prehend and to understand the spirit and
power of God and their calling; you should
do this, and you have got to do something
of this kind, in order to carry out the pur-
poses of the Lord You stand here in the
mountains of Israel, raised up by the Lord.
You have done a great work here, and
there is a great deal more to do. You are
redeeming the dead and the living, and
sending abroad thousands of the Elders to
warn the nations of the earth of those events

[Column 3]
which are to come upon them and upon us.
Therefore the Elders should try to be faith-
ful, and we should watch over our sons and
daughters, give them good advice, and set
them a good example that we may have no
regrets of their falling into principles and
practices which are not right and righteous
before God, on account of our example.
	I say, God bless you; labor for the Holy
Spirit, labor for light and truth, for revela-
tion and inspiration, learn the mind and
will of God concerning yourselves and the
truth of the work of God on the earth.
Keep your eyes open to see, your ears to
hear, and your hearts to understand the
truth, and that you may see the hand of
God visible throughout the world, which
will be more and more visible from this
time to the winding-up scene. God bless
you. Amen.
	Other remarks were by Apostle Merrill,
and President Joseph F. Smith and Apos-
tle Lund who occupied the remainder of
the morning service. In the afternoon re-
ports were read by President Joseph F.
Smith from the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Association. Members
of the Brigham Young Academy Board
were sustained by unanimous vote of the
Conference.
	President Smith then presented the Gen-
eral authorities who were all unanimously
sustained. The meeting was then ad-
dressed by Elder B. H. Roberts, who spoke
of his recent mission to the large cities in
the United States, and was followed by
Elder Samuel W. Richards, late President
of the Eastern States Mission.
	President George Q. Cannon then ad-
dressed the Conference, mentioning the
Brigham Young statue, and that it was de-
sirable that it should be completed as far as
practicable by the time of the semi-centen-
nial Pioneer Jubilee. Much of his sermon
was upon the delusive influences that were
used speciously to draw away the unwary
and deceive the Saints; warned the people
against these false doctrines and urged
them to be diligent and faithful that they
might not be led into error and darkness.
	President Woodruff spoke briefly on the
subject treated by President Cannon, re-
garding seducing spirits and delusive doc-
trines and characterized them as false, de-
ceptive and of a nature to lead those who
imbibed them to destruction.
	The choir sang the anthem “Glory be to
the Lord, our Deliverer.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Patriarch John Smith.


