SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Confer-
ence of the Relief Society, held at Moroni,
March 12, 1897, President M. A. P. Hyde
presiding. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet;” prayer by Andrew L.
Jensen; singing “Guide us O Thou Great
Jehovah;” reading and adoption of the
previous minutes; the annual reports were
read by the secretary.
	President M. A. P. Hyde felt grateful to
meet with her sisters of Sanpete again.
Gave a short report of the R. S. Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake; spoke of corrup-
tion, the destroyer is going forth to destroy,
and those who are weak be approaches in
such a manner that it would throw them
off their guard. Prayed the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Verbal reports were given from Chester,
Ephraim North and South wards, Mt.
Pleasant. Written reports were read from
Manti North and South wards, Moroni and
Sterling.
	Counselor Alvira Cox gave instructions
concerning reports; said it was very im-
portant to have them correct as we are
making history. Singing “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
Brother James Harvey.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION: After the usual
opening exercises the General and Stake
officers were unanimously sustained. Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde made remarks upon re-
ceiving members not of our faith, those
who are not for us are against us. Gave
details of a blessing given her by the
Patriarch Hyrum Smith. “We need to
prepare ourselves for greater times.”
Spoke of forewarnings; said we do not
know what a day may bring forth, but let
us listen to the promptings of the Spirit and
live near to the Lord.
	Sister Hannah Dorius of Ephraim said,
“let us take care of ourselves and children,
always heeding the wise counsel given us.
Our property is loaned us to help build up 
the kingdom and for the purpose of serving
God, therefore we should not forget and
worship that more than God.”
	Counselor Abigail Shoemaker thought
the sisters needed great praise for their
good works. Said the time to give our
wheat is immediately after threshing; we
are always blessed when we give our mites;
hoped we might be faithful and humble.
	Christina Thompson said to live so near
the House of God and enjoy so many
blessings was more than she had ever anti-
cipated. Sister Harvey said the sisters will
lose nothing by attending the meetings,
but will be able to accomplish much more
and will have more of the spirit which
every mother needs in order to teach the
children to pray and to be obedient.
	Benedicta Hansen felt when she em-
braced the Gospel that she must have been
acquainted with the principles always.
Spoke of the Primary work. “Mothers do
not neglect the children; they are our
Father’s children. Try to explain those
beautiful principles to them and have them
instilled in their minds.”
	Esther Anderson expressed her desire to
press forward, and bore her testimony.
Counselor Alvira Cox felt we were especial-
ly blessed with the presence of President
Hyde. Thought we lived in an important
time; Satan is ever striving to see whom
he can catch. “There has been a tendancy
to sit in judgment of the work of the lead-
ing brethren; if we once allow ourselves to
doubt we will find ourselves in the dark-
ness. There is a great anxiety in the duty
of parents to children; let us give them
innocent amusement and try and make
home pleasant. Follow them up with our
prayers, as there is so much of Babylon
right amongst us.” Encouraged the indus-
try of silk culture.
	Brother James Harvey said “We are the
salt of the earth and do not let us lose our
savor.” Sisters Maria Willardson, and
Maria Dorius made a few remarks.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and among them must
be the great call for missionaries; desired
the mothers and sisters to aid and encourage
the young men when called. “Mothers
guard your daughters; they are pure and
choice. Have them trained and accom-
plished in housework first and foremost, as
a good housewife is much towards making
home happy.” Gave the sisters a mother’s
blessing.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to the man.” Benedic-
tion by James Jensen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON, Secy’.
WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake held


[Column 1]
Conference Feb. 26, 1897, at the Fremont
Relief Society hall, President Jane S. Cole-
man presiding. Choir sang “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. N. Blackburn;
singing “All hail the glorious day;” min-
utes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved. 
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to again meet in Conference, that it
was through faith and prayer she had been
able to attend, having had sickness in the
family; was grateful to have so many of the
brethren meet with us, said the aims and
desires of the Relief Society are to be one
with the Priesthood and to ever use a good
influence in the proper direction; prayed
the Spirit of God would rest on the speak-
ers that such instructions might be given
as were necessary for the general good and
advancement of Relief Society labors.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said “We are of
one faith and one gospel, the same that our
Savior taught. We should teach our child-
ren it is the true faith and guard them from
the wiles of Satan, who is on the watch to
turn them aside from the straight path.”
Spoke upon faith and the necesity of teach-
ing that principle to our children.
	President Louisa Taylor of the Fremont
Relief Society gave a good report; they own
a good house, well seated and carpeted,
their lot fenced and a granary with over
300 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Louisa Brown of Loa, felt happy
to meet with her sisters; came to be
strengthened in her faith; was thankful
for the organization of the Relief Society;
spoke of the temptations that beset the
youth. We are not all keeping the Word of
Wisdom, if we did we would enjoy greater
faith; spoke of the teachings of King Ben-
jamin to the Nephites, which if practiced
by us would result in great good upon our
heads.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
the Loa Relief Society in good condition,
said the sisters in turn visit the Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary meetings, had also sub-
scribed for the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and
sent it to the sisters in England.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was truly thank-
ful for the blessings and gifts of the Gospel,
for the healing of the sick and the privilege
of prayer said the evil one is on the alert,
we should teach our children the plan of
salvation prayed the Lord to bless and
comfort our hearts.
	The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by President Helen Maxfield as doing
well and they were greatly blessed in their
labors.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
Counselor Louisa Bunkerhoff, they were in
good condition; are now directing their
labors to build a Relief Society hall. Teas-
dale was also reported by Sister Coleman
as doing well.
	Patriarch F. W. Young said he realized
the sisters had influence and could exercise
it for good; some people in the world
thought the Mormon women were ignor-
ant creatures; showed the falsity of this
statement. The women go hand in hand
with their husbands; spoke of training
children, the evil of selling intoxicants in
our settlements, mothers should plead with
their sons not to touch them nor to use pro-
fane language. We should encourage re-
ligious classes; asked God to bless the Re-
lief Society.
	The yearly financial and statistical report

[Column 2]
was read. Singing “O say what is truth;”
benediction by Elder J. A. Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Do
what is right;” prayer by Elder W. A.
Taylor; singing “Go ye messengers of
glory.”
	Sister Margaret Pace bore her testimony
and felt interested in Relief Society work,
was very desirous to see the youth cho[---]
the path of virtue and chastity. Sister
Sarah J. Morrell spoke well upon timely
subjects. Sister Mary Ellett spoke of her
love for the Gospel, and that temptations
should be kept from the youth. Sister
Sarah A. Robinson made good remarks;
hoped the counsels and instructions given
would be carried into practice.
	Stake President Willis E. Robeson wish-
ed an interest in the prayers of those pres-
ent while speaking; exhorted all to dot
what is right, as was sung in the firs
hymn; spoke of the great scope of woman’s
work, that their labors were just as exten-
sive as the brethren. The sisters are im-
portant factors in rectifying evil of every
kind; the influence of the mother, sister
and wife are very important in our midst;
referred to the remarks of President Cannon
about famine, was pleased to note the suc-
cess of the sisters in storing grain, gave
much credit to the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Patriarch E. W. Blackburn said he had
enjoyed the Conference very much. The
Prophet Joseph had organized the Relief
Society over fifty years ago; spoke of the
great good the sisters had accomplished;
spoke upon chastity, that mothers should
take their sons in kindness and exhort them
o keep themselves pure and guard the vir-
ue of their young sisters; spoke of how
<t>mproperly dancing is being conducted any
person that will oppose the authority of
God’s servants are apostates at heart. The
sin of profanity was also spoken of and the
sisters were urged to unite and use their
influence against every evil practice. He
sustained the Relief Society, felt honored to
meet with them and hear the word of God
and felt to bless them in His name.
	The officers of the Central Board and the
Stake officers were sustained.
	President J. S. Coleman gave some
general instructions pertaining to the Re-
lief Society work to aid the local Presidents
in their labors, that all may work in har-
mony and accomplish the best results
whether in spiritual or practical matters;
wished the sisters to subscribe for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks could not at-
tend Conference, her home being in the
eastern part of the Stake and the roads
very bad for traveling	Just before Con-
ference she visited the eastern part, namely
Aldrich, Caneville, Giles, Clifton, and re-
ported all in good condition. Conference
adjourned for six mouths. Choir sang;
benediction by Brother George Forsyth.
