A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

	ELIZA ANN CARTER was the daughter
of John Carter and Hannah Libby. She

[Column 2]
was born in the town of Newry, Oxford
Co., State of Maine, on the 28th of Septem-
ber in the year 1818. Her parents belonged
to the Methodist creed in which church she
was an active member, but her mind was
much troubled about what would become
of her hereafter. In the year 1834 Daniel
Bean and John T. Boynton, Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
were preaching in the town of Newry and
called at the house of her father. At that
time her mother lay very sick, having been
given up by the Doctors. These Elders
told her of the new Gospel they were
preaching and said if she had faith they
would lay hands on her and she would be
healed. She told them she knew nothing
of their doctrine but if it were true, she
knew she would be healed; accordingly
they laid hands on her and commanded her
in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to be
made whole. She immediately arose and
called for her clothes and said, “I must go
to the water;” at the same time some of
her children were praising and others con-
demning, and her husband, who never
embraced the Gospel, said, “ Well that
beats Doctor bills.” She walked one half
mile to the Bear river where she was bap-
tized and confirmed, and at which place a
large branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints was raised up.
	Her daughter Eliza Ann at once received
the Gospel and was baptized, and in the
year 1836 in company with her brother
John Carter, Mary Ann Stearns and Phebe
Carter started for Kirtland, Ohio, arriving
August 10th the same year. She was in-
vited into the family of Hyrum Smith
where she labored as an assistant in house-
work. There she became acquainted with
the whole Smith family. She was invited
into the choir by William Cahoon and there
became intimately acquainted with Emma
Smith and Zina Huntington (now Young).
I have quite a portion of history written by
her own hand, at the age of seventy-four.
	“I had my patriarchal blessing under
the hands of Father Joseph Smith, the
patriarch then, in the Kirtland Temple. I
and others were on the top of the Temple
and sung “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	That was when I was eighteen years old.
I was in Kirtland when the Temple was
dedicated and when the stars fell from heav-
en and saw them when they fell.
	I ate and drank with the Prophet Joseph
and Emma Smith at the wedding of Elder
Goodson at Parley P. Pratt’s house.
	When I was living at Hyrum Smith’s
I thought that he was the best man I ever
saw, he was so kind to his family and he
prayed in his family three times a day.
	I married James C. Snow in 1838 and
started with William Carter, my brother
and his family for Far West, Missouri the
same year. It was cold weather and we
suffered much with the cold, but we travel-
ed until we came to Terre Haute, Indiana,
and one of our oxen died, leaving us with
one ox, so we were obliged to stop. We
had no money, no house to go in and we
got the privilege of going into a horse stable
and I cleaned it out and was glad to get in-
to a place out of the storms. After stop-
ping in Indiana a few weeks Hyrum
Smith’s company came along, and he being
acquainted with me said to me, 'If you
will ride in my baggage wagon I will take
you along and you can drive the team and


[Column 1]
the men can walk.’ I said I will do so.
We traveled until we came to Jacksonville,
Illinois; there one of Hyrum Smith’s horses
died and he had to leave us. There was a
branch of the Church near by but he did not
leave us penniless amongst strangers, with-
out home or friends but he called for the
President of the branch and told him to let
Brother Snow preside over the branch as a
missionary and to feed and clothe us until
the Kirtland Camp company came along in
the fall, and he did so. The President’s
name was Merrick, the brother that was
killed at the Haun’s Mill Massacre in Mis-
souri. While we were there in the branch
I looked out, and behold! there came my
brother William with the one ox that we
left behind. He had made a harness and
tackled him up and the one ox carried his
wife and three children to Missouri, and
when I saw him I rejoiced to see him have
so much faith, but the Gentiles made all
manner of fun of him. They said ‘There
goes a d—d Mormon with one ox,’ but he got
there just the same; and Father Joseph
Smith said it should be in the annals of his
history. After that the Kirtland camp
came along and we went to Missouri with
them. We went into an old log house
that we could poke a cat out between the
logs and there my first child was born; it
was the 30th day of October in the year
1838. Sarah Jane who became the wife of
Marshall Kindsman and afterwards wife of
President Joseph Young. It was cold and
snowed every day and the mob came into
Far West the very day of her birth, and we
were much excited. I could not keep the
midwife long enough to dress my child,
Sister Diantha Billings was her name, well
it known among our people. The mob was
blowing horns and firing guns all night
long. We were without bread or anything
to make bread of, but by the help of the
Lord we were preserved by the brethren
giving up their arms and promising to
leave Far West. We left in the month of
February the following year. There were
three families to one wagon and one span
of old horses, we took turns in walking.
There was Brother Winslow Farr and wife,
Gardener Snow and wife and James Snow
and wife. We traveled all day and at
night lay down at a camp fire as we had no
tent. We arrived in Illinois in 1839 and in
1845 I had my house burned down by a
wicked mob painted black, and I was forced
to leave and go to Nauvoo. Left Nauvoo
in 1846. Stayed at Council Bluffs until
1851 and arrived at Provo in 1852.”
	I will here add that when the call was
made for the Battalion her brother, Richard
Carter (who died in the Battalion) was one
of the volunteers. His wife died shortly
after, leaving three children whom Sister
Snow brought to the valley. She resided
in Provo from the time of her arrival here
and was ever energetic in the cause in
which she engaged. She always paid her
tithes and offerings and even within a few
days of her death donated to the Temple
Library. She departed this life March 9,
1897.
	She was a woman of much faith both for
herself and others; many times she was
healed by the power of faith and once when
she had been given up by the best physi-
cians and it had even been reported that
she was dead, she was healed.
	She was the mother of nine children and
at the time of her death had fifty-five grand-
children and fifty-one great grandchildren.

[Column 2]
She was always a faithful counselor to her
children and friends. Ever exhorting them
to faithfulness.
	Much more might be added to this his-
tory but as I did not intend a lengthy
sketch, will let this suffice.
