Stake. “Children,” she said, “ are taught
to fear the Lord and to obey the command-
ments, to be honest and to be respectful in
their behavior. We sisters have consulted
together in regard to silk raising; we don’t
believe we will always be able to get our
ribbons from Babylon.” Sister Larsen al-
so bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel.
	President Thomas Ricks, of Bannock,
Stake, said he felt very much out of place
being here to report, but as he had a writ-
ten report given him of the Relief Society
of that Stake, he would read that, which
he proceeded to do and he then told the
sisters how disappointed the sisters were up
there because Sister Young and Sister
Richards did not visit them when they
were in Idaho last year, (they were afraid
of the high water.) He thought the Lord
was pushing His work. “ There are twice
as many Elders in the field now as there
are people in this audience, and they are
seeking out the honest in heart, the work is
onward.”
	President C. O. Card, of Alberta Stake,
spoke of the representative women of the
Church of Jesus Christ that were present,
and said they belong to the Relief Society
and the Y. L. M. I. A. and they enjoy the
gifts of the Gospel. “ We have these in-
stitutions in our Stake and we have a goodly
land in our northern clime, we can raise
wool and flax, but it is not adapted to
everything. President Card spoke of hav-
ing superintended the building of the Logan
Temple and how liberal the sisters had been


in contributing to it, also that in all his
public life the sisters had been a great help
to the brethren in the Church. Reported
four wards in their Stake and said they
draw their support from the elements in-
stead of complaining of hard times. “Lit-
tle things put together make something
gigantic in all;” favored the laying up of
wheat, thought the war clouds several of
them now looked threatening. The same
good spirit is in the sisters meetings; testi-
fied to the spirit of the Conference.
	Bishop Thomas, of Idaho Falls, spoke of
humility, brought up the example of the
Savior when he was at the fire broiling fish
and asked his disciples to come and dine
with him; spoke of the Scripture which
says “He that is least among you shall be
greatest;” also referred to the society of the
Saints and quoted the words of Ruth of old
“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge;” felt those were
his sentiments. “God bless you all,
Amen.”
	Sister M. Isabella Horne reported Salt
Lake Stake, spoke of having organized
new branches of the Relief Society this
year at East Jordan, Crescent and in a part
of South Cottonwood; thought the sisters
were doing a good work. “The women
who have labored faithfully and grown
old in the service need some who are young
and vigorous to come forward and help,
the work is an interesting one; said it
would be sixty-one years in July since she
was baptized, and had labored ever since in
the interests of Zion, her desire was to go
on laying up treasures in heaven, by look-
ing after the poor and needy which is pleas-
ing in the sight of the Lord.
	Sister Mary E. Lightner was the next
speaker, she stated that she was baptized
into the Church October 15, 1830, and had
passed through all the persecutions of the
Saints, and for all the adversities she had
experienced she was glad, “for so shall we
be perfected and prepared to enter into His
rest; we are yet to have the law of God
written in our hearts when Joseph turned
the key of knowledge for the sisters in the
Church, it was also for the women of the
world a portion of it, and they have been
awakening ever since.”
	Sister Mary L. Woolf, of Alberta Stake,
Canada, rejoiced to hear what had been
spoken, was glad to see Sister Young the
President of the Relief Society, and to hear
her talk to the sisters; knew many of the
women upon the stand through hearing her
mother speak of them. Sister Woolf said,
“I am living a long way from here but
possibly it seems farther off to you than it
does to me. I am glad we have been call-
ed to this land in the north, there will be a
good chance for our sons to make a start
and understand the Gospel in its true light.
Our children will go on and carry on this
work, it must be so.”
	Sister Susannah Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, was requested by Sister Widerborg,
the President, to report and was willing to
do so, as she could give a good report of
the sisters there, and they were good the
President is careful to attend to the poor
and visit the sick. The speaker said Sister
Widerborg often asked her to go with her to
visit around among the sisters; spoke of
the sickness in their midst, in the first,
second and third wards in Brigham City
they had the diphtheria and had to be quar-
antined; spoke of having been engaged in 
the work of the Relief Society ever since a

[Column 2]
Society had been organized in Brigham
City; made some good and encouraging re-
marks about sericulture and the land own-
ed by the sisters and the number of mul-
berry trees they had on it, said last year
the sisters came from Logan to gather mul-
berry leaves from their trees and take over
there to feed the worms. Sister Booth
spoke of the new Tabernacle built in Brig-
ham City, and how the Relief Society had
helped the brethren in the work of getting
it furnished etc.
	President Young made some closing re-
marks and gave notice of the evening
meeting at 7.30, invited all to attend and
hoped to see the house filled. Singing
Doxology; benediction was offered by
Elder Christian J. Larson.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


