REMINISCENCES OF PIONEER DAYS.
	THE effort being put forth by the semi-
centennial commission is calling in from all
quarters reminiscences of those early days,
which were so significant of the future;
and yet those who participated therein
could not foresee what has since been un-
folded to their view in the events that have
transpired.
	Those of us who were in Winter Quarters
at the time of the departure of the pioneer
company, and were cognizant of some of
the previous arrangements, only recall
those things that were of general interest
and perhaps incidents relating to their
own immediate families and their friends.
All of us are likely to remember the anx- 
iety that prevaded the entire settlement
when the decision was made public,
though it was very well understood that at


[Column 1]
the opening of Spring a company would
leave for the mountains etc.
	On Sunday, March 28, at the public
stand at Winter Quarters the pioneer
subject was treated upon in discourses by
Heber C. Kimball, Brigham Young, Orson
Pratt and Ezra T. Benson and the people
knew then that in a very few days the com-
pany would be moving on. During the
entire week following, the Apostles, Bishop
Whitney and some leading men were in
council day and night, and on Sunday,
April 4th, Heber C. Kimball preached
an excellent discourse on union as being
power, and that without it the people could
not obtain blessings, nor the spirit of God,
nor faith, nor accomplish the purposes of
God.
	On the same day, as recorded in the
journal of the writer, Bishop Whitney
blessed his two sons, Horace and Orson,
who had been called to go as pioneers.
They were both young men, Horace twenty-
three and Orson only seventeen the January
before. The following day, Monday,
April 5th, it rained and yet at our house
we were especially busy making every pre-
paration for the departure of the young men,
packing the wagon in which they were to
go “over the mountains” as we termed it,
cooking food for the first few days, etc.
“Mother Whitney” though full of faith
and desirous her sons should go, yet felt most
keenly the great risk, and her prayers were
constantly if silently offered for their pro-
tection.
	Conference April 6, (Tuesday) the 17th
year of the Church there was a large atten-
dance at the stand. Brigham Young preach-
ed a wonderful sermon. Word was given
out that the pioneers would start the next
morning, all things were prepared, Brother
Brigham said he wanted to get away where
he could rest his mind; he looked very pale
and worn. Some of the teams pulled out
that day. Thursday, April 8, our teams
were sent down into the country to buy
corn, and Brother Edwin D. Woolley start-
ed for St. Louis. Father Lott, as we called
him came to our house and blessed Horace
and Orson previous to their departure, and
as he gave them similar blessings to their
father, it increased their faith and was a
comfort to Mother Whitney and to Helen,
(Horace’s young wife.) Heber C. Kim-
ball and the Whitney boys and others left;
Bishop Whitney went out with them
to the camp but they came back that
night on horseback, leaving the wagons.
The same day Parley P. Pratt came home
on horseback; he had separated from the
company and hurried on.
	Brother Pratt brought news of Captain
Dan Jones who had formerly been in
Nauvoo, Captain of the Iowa, but had re-
turned to Wales and had wonderful success
in converting the Welsh people. Brother
Brigham left again that day and went
away singing,
“I love the way to Zion’s hill.”
	Bishop Whitney went out too, the same
day. The following day, Sunday, April
11, Parley P. Pratt preached at the stand.
	Monday, April 12, opened school in a
log room belonging to Bishop Whitney,
across the way from our house, had eleven
scholars the first day but soon after had
many more, (had a Sunday school in con-
nection with it.) Among the twenty-five
or thirty boys taught in that log house
were some who have since filled very im-

[Column 2]
portant positions. That afternoon the lead-
ing brethren returned from the pioneer
camp on the Horn river. Tuesday, April
13, the brethren were busy all day settling
some business matters. At evening Brother
John Taylor arrived, they held a council
and determined to start Wednesday, April
14, and on that day all was bustle and con-
fusion; the sisters made cakes and wrote
letters aud sent to the boys who were al-
ready in camp. Ellen (Saunders) Kimball
started off with Brother Kimball and Clara
(Decker) Young with Brigham Young,
Brother Wm. Clayton went with only a
few hours notice. Bishop Whitney accom-
panied them again as far as the Horn river.
Brother Jesse C. Little arrived the same
evening and a party was given in the
Council House in honor of his arrival; he
brought with him presents from Col. Kane
for those who had been so kind to the Col-
onel during his sickness among them.
Brother Little and Porter Rockwell went on
to the camp to join Brigham Young and the
pioneers. This really was the final start
and the brethren who returned, came back
with rather sad countenances.


