WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake held


[Column 1]
Conference Feb. 26, 1897, at the Fremont
Relief Society hall, President Jane S. Cole-
man presiding. Choir sang “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. N. Blackburn;
singing “All hail the glorious day;” min-
utes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved. 
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to again meet in Conference, that it
was through faith and prayer she had been
able to attend, having had sickness in the
family; was grateful to have so many of the
brethren meet with us, said the aims and
desires of the Relief Society are to be one
with the Priesthood and to ever use a good
influence in the proper direction; prayed
the Spirit of God would rest on the speak-
ers that such instructions might be given
as were necessary for the general good and
advancement of Relief Society labors.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said “We are of
one faith and one gospel, the same that our
Savior taught. We should teach our child-
ren it is the true faith and guard them from
the wiles of Satan, who is on the watch to
turn them aside from the straight path.”
Spoke upon faith and the necesity of teach-
ing that principle to our children.
	President Louisa Taylor of the Fremont
Relief Society gave a good report; they own
a good house, well seated and carpeted,
their lot fenced and a granary with over
300 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Louisa Brown of Loa, felt happy
to meet with her sisters; came to be
strengthened in her faith; was thankful
for the organization of the Relief Society;
spoke of the temptations that beset the
youth. We are not all keeping the Word of
Wisdom, if we did we would enjoy greater
faith; spoke of the teachings of King Ben-
jamin to the Nephites, which if practiced
by us would result in great good upon our
heads.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
the Loa Relief Society in good condition,
said the sisters in turn visit the Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary meetings, had also sub-
scribed for the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and
sent it to the sisters in England.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was truly thank-
ful for the blessings and gifts of the Gospel,
for the healing of the sick and the privilege
of prayer said the evil one is on the alert,
we should teach our children the plan of
salvation prayed the Lord to bless and
comfort our hearts.
	The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by President Helen Maxfield as doing
well and they were greatly blessed in their
labors.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
Counselor Louisa Bunkerhoff, they were in
good condition; are now directing their
labors to build a Relief Society hall. Teas-
dale was also reported by Sister Coleman
as doing well.
	Patriarch F. W. Young said he realized
the sisters had influence and could exercise
it for good; some people in the world
thought the Mormon women were ignor-
ant creatures; showed the falsity of this
statement. The women go hand in hand
with their husbands; spoke of training
children, the evil of selling intoxicants in
our settlements, mothers should plead with
their sons not to touch them nor to use pro-
fane language. We should encourage re-
ligious classes; asked God to bless the Re-
lief Society.
	The yearly financial and statistical report

[Column 2]
was read. Singing “O say what is truth;”
benediction by Elder J. A. Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Do
what is right;” prayer by Elder W. A.
Taylor; singing “Go ye messengers of
glory.”
	Sister Margaret Pace bore her testimony
and felt interested in Relief Society work,
was very desirous to see the youth cho[---]
the path of virtue and chastity. Sister
Sarah J. Morrell spoke well upon timely
subjects. Sister Mary Ellett spoke of her
love for the Gospel, and that temptations
should be kept from the youth. Sister
Sarah A. Robinson made good remarks;
hoped the counsels and instructions given
would be carried into practice.
	Stake President Willis E. Robeson wish-
ed an interest in the prayers of those pres-
ent while speaking; exhorted all to dot
what is right, as was sung in the firs
hymn; spoke of the great scope of woman’s
work, that their labors were just as exten-
sive as the brethren. The sisters are im-
portant factors in rectifying evil of every
kind; the influence of the mother, sister
and wife are very important in our midst;
referred to the remarks of President Cannon
about famine, was pleased to note the suc-
cess of the sisters in storing grain, gave
much credit to the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Patriarch E. W. Blackburn said he had
enjoyed the Conference very much. The
Prophet Joseph had organized the Relief
Society over fifty years ago; spoke of the
great good the sisters had accomplished;
spoke upon chastity, that mothers should
take their sons in kindness and exhort them
o keep themselves pure and guard the vir-
ue of their young sisters; spoke of how
<t>mproperly dancing is being conducted any
person that will oppose the authority of
God’s servants are apostates at heart. The
sin of profanity was also spoken of and the
sisters were urged to unite and use their
influence against every evil practice. He
sustained the Relief Society, felt honored to
meet with them and hear the word of God
and felt to bless them in His name.
	The officers of the Central Board and the
Stake officers were sustained.
	President J. S. Coleman gave some
general instructions pertaining to the Re-
lief Society work to aid the local Presidents
in their labors, that all may work in har-
mony and accomplish the best results
whether in spiritual or practical matters;
wished the sisters to subscribe for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks could not at-
tend Conference, her home being in the
eastern part of the Stake and the roads
very bad for traveling	Just before Con-
ference she visited the eastern part, namely
Aldrich, Caneville, Giles, Clifton, and re-
ported all in good condition. Conference
adjourned for six mouths. Choir sang;
benediction by Brother George Forsyth.
