SOCIETY.

	THE Relief Society Conference was held
in the Assembly Hall, April 3rd, 1897,
commencing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Opened by singing
“How firm a foundation “etc., Prof. C. J.
Thomas leader and Spencer Clawson Jun.
organist. Prayer was offered by President
Thomas B. Ricks of Bannock Stake, Idaho.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Roll
call by the Secretary, fifteen presidents of
Stakes present, a few were represented by
Counselors, making nineteen in all.
	President Young welcomed the sisters in
her own motherly fashion and spoke par-
ticularly to those who had come from a dis-
tance to attend Conference. She said in
her remarks we should keep ourselves free
from guile and refrain from speaking
against each other, and should walk in the
straight and narrow way and not be turned
aside by any influences that were mislead-
ing; reminded the sisters of the Prophet’s
words that the sisters little knew the
work that they were laying a founda-
tion for thought, we realized it now more
fully than ever; said in closing, “May
heaven bless us and sustain us, and may
we have the Holy Spirit while we are here
together that we may have a time of re-
joicing and go away feeling refreshed ”
	Minutes of October Conference were
read by the Secretary and approved. Sis-
ter B. W. Smith spoke of the good number
present and was glad to see the sisters, re-
joiced in the Relief Society; referred to the
minutes that had been read, said we have
talked about a house of our own to meet in,
but thought it was not the right time just
now, and we have no land, and so we must
wait till the right time comes. Spoke of
the work for the dead and how much she
enjoyed being engaged in the Temple.
	Sister Jane S. Richards felt we had great
reason to be thankful that we had health
and strength and a desire to come to meet-
ing; who is there that does not feel filled
with joy and energy to do and to help in this
great work; said she heard the Gospel
when seventeen years old, she was admin-
istered to by the Elders and the numbness

[Column 2]
from which she suffered was all taken from
her, she knew then and had known ever
since that the Gospel was true. Referred
to the good effect of a few kind words,
thought we should not talk much of hard
times, and alluded to the circumstances un-
der which the Nauvoo Temple was built,
and said her husband worked on it; the
people did not complain then even when
there was not bread for them, Sister Richards
spoke of her relatives in the East and the
kind feelings they manifested towards her,
and how she felt towards them.
	Sister Ann C. Woodbury, of St. George,
rejoiced in meeting with the sisters; she
had visited a part of the Stake since she
was here in the fall, and she took pains
wherever she went to urge the setting out
of mulberry trees, many sisters were will-
ing to take hold of the work, and hundreds
of children of the Latter-day Saints could
be employed in this industry; recommended
one child with a grown person, said it had
been her feeling ever since she came to the
country that silk culture could be made a
success; believed the Lord would bless us
in this work; thought we should teach our
children to be industrious and to grow up
in faith, to pray and to be prepared to stand
in the front in all good undertakings.
	Sister Zina urged the sisters to take the
mulberry twigs and plant them in by the
ditches, and they would soon grow and the
leaves could easily be gathered without
having to climb trees, and added “when
you do this, think of President Brigham
Young and his counsel in regard to silk.”
	Sister Lydia Rich reported Morgan Stake
in good condition in all respects and bore a
strong testimony to the truth, and spoke
very forcibly of the missionaries abroad in
the earth, and the remarkable work being
accomplished.
	Sister Annie U. Larsen, of Emery Stake,
reported the work of the Society in that
