SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Confer-
ence of the Relief Society, held at Moroni,
March 12, 1897, President M. A. P. Hyde
presiding. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet;” prayer by Andrew L.
Jensen; singing “Guide us O Thou Great
Jehovah;” reading and adoption of the
previous minutes; the annual reports were
read by the secretary.
	President M. A. P. Hyde felt grateful to
meet with her sisters of Sanpete again.
Gave a short report of the R. S. Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake; spoke of corrup-
tion, the destroyer is going forth to destroy,
and those who are weak be approaches in
such a manner that it would throw them
off their guard. Prayed the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Verbal reports were given from Chester,
Ephraim North and South wards, Mt.
Pleasant. Written reports were read from
Manti North and South wards, Moroni and
Sterling.
	Counselor Alvira Cox gave instructions
concerning reports; said it was very im-
portant to have them correct as we are
making history. Singing “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
Brother James Harvey.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION: After the usual
opening exercises the General and Stake
officers were unanimously sustained. Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde made remarks upon re-
ceiving members not of our faith, those
who are not for us are against us. Gave
details of a blessing given her by the
Patriarch Hyrum Smith. “We need to
prepare ourselves for greater times.”
Spoke of forewarnings; said we do not
know what a day may bring forth, but let
us listen to the promptings of the Spirit and
live near to the Lord.
	Sister Hannah Dorius of Ephraim said,
“let us take care of ourselves and children,
always heeding the wise counsel given us.
Our property is loaned us to help build up 
the kingdom and for the purpose of serving
God, therefore we should not forget and
worship that more than God.”
	Counselor Abigail Shoemaker thought
the sisters needed great praise for their
good works. Said the time to give our
wheat is immediately after threshing; we
are always blessed when we give our mites;
hoped we might be faithful and humble.
	Christina Thompson said to live so near
the House of God and enjoy so many
blessings was more than she had ever anti-
cipated. Sister Harvey said the sisters will
lose nothing by attending the meetings,
but will be able to accomplish much more
and will have more of the spirit which
every mother needs in order to teach the
children to pray and to be obedient.
	Benedicta Hansen felt when she em-
braced the Gospel that she must have been
acquainted with the principles always.
Spoke of the Primary work. “Mothers do
not neglect the children; they are our
Father’s children. Try to explain those
beautiful principles to them and have them
instilled in their minds.”
	Esther Anderson expressed her desire to
press forward, and bore her testimony.
Counselor Alvira Cox felt we were especial-
ly blessed with the presence of President
Hyde. Thought we lived in an important
time; Satan is ever striving to see whom
he can catch. “There has been a tendancy
to sit in judgment of the work of the lead-
ing brethren; if we once allow ourselves to
doubt we will find ourselves in the dark-
ness. There is a great anxiety in the duty
of parents to children; let us give them
innocent amusement and try and make
home pleasant. Follow them up with our
prayers, as there is so much of Babylon
right amongst us.” Encouraged the indus-
try of silk culture.
	Brother James Harvey said “We are the
salt of the earth and do not let us lose our
savor.” Sisters Maria Willardson, and
Maria Dorius made a few remarks.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and among them must
be the great call for missionaries; desired
the mothers and sisters to aid and encourage
the young men when called. “Mothers
guard your daughters; they are pure and
choice. Have them trained and accom-
plished in housework first and foremost, as
a good housewife is much towards making
home happy.” Gave the sisters a mother’s
blessing.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to the man.” Benedic-
tion by James Jensen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON, Secy’.
