NOTES AND NEWS.

	EMILE de Girardin, the noted French jour-
nalist, is dead.

	DR. Lewis Swift, at the Warner observatory
at Rochester, N. Y., discovered a new comet on
the morning of May 6.

	YALE College has organized a class for ladies
resembling the "Harvard Annex." Lectures
will be given by Prof. Sumner, Williams and
Brewer.

	A NEW college of Egyptology has been es-
tablished at Cairo, Egypt, by the French gov-
ernment. The study of Arabic art and litera-
ture and hieroglyphics is the object.

	THE Alabany Morning Express says there is
a man in that city, whose name coold be given
if needful, who openly declared "if his wife
voted he would kill her." Women vote on
school questions in the State of New York, that
was what called forth this demonstration.

	THE thirteenth annual convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will be
held at Tremont Temple, Boston, Thursday and
Friday, May 26 and 27. Among the eminent
speakers are Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Belva
A. Lockwood, Anna Garlin Spencer, Rev. Olym-
pia Brown Willis, Harriet H. Robinson, Rev.
Frederick A. Hinckley, Lillie Devereux Blake,
May Wright Sewell, Elizabeth L. Saxon, Har-
riet B. Shattuck, Martha M'Clellan Brown,
Elizabeth Avery Meriwether, Susan B. An-
thony and others. Three sessions daily at 10
A. M., 2.30 and 7.45 P. M.—Ex.

	GEORGE Eliot's husband accredits only one
portrait of her, a carefully finished front view
crayon of the head, for which she sat many
times in 1867, to Frederick Burton. Rajou,
the celebrated etcher, is re-producing this for
her personal friends, and the etching will be
reproduced in an early number of Scribner's
Monthly, by courtesy of Mr. Cross. All other
portraits, except one by Laurence, which will
not be engraved, the Athenaeum says, "are not
merely not authorized, but strongly condemned
by Mr. Cross." The wood-cut of George Eliot
in the May Harper's is, nevertheless, an inter-
esting picture, and its likeness is warranted by
Kegan Paul.—Ex.


