CHARITY—HOW DEFINED.

	Being told in Holy Writ that Faith, Hope
and Charity are the fundamental principles of
the Gospel, and that the greatest of these is
Charity, we find it quite requisite to under-
stand its true definition. And especially when
we measure ourselves by the pattern our Savior
has given to become qualified for the Celestial
kingdom. We naturally suppose Charity to
consist in giving of our goods to the needy; but
we begin to feel that we are mistaken, when
we read St. Paul's version as given in 1st Cor.,
13th chapter and 3d verse. He says: "And
though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor,
and though I give my body to be burned, and
have not Charity, it profiteth me nothing." It
seems, then, there is a way of performing these
duties without the Gospel, for instance, the
law of Moses may be kept with a vengeance; a
man may return an injury filled with hatred
and revenge, and at the same time be keeping
the law of Moses. But the higher law, this
law of our Savior, cannot be kept in this way.
To be acceptable to God, our Charity must be
given in love and humility, or it is as the
preacher saith, "vanity of vanities."
	Our Savior looked upon the Pharisees (who
sounded a trumpet before giving alms) in the
same light, because they sought the praise of
man and were destitute of genuine love for
their fellow-man, who was made in the image
of his Maker.
	We learn from this that our duties are not
acceptable to God, our Father, unless per-
formed in the true spirit of the Gospel of Christ,
which is love; as we also read in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, page 387, verse 41,
requires love unfeigned; also in Galatians, 6th
chapter and 7th verse, the Apostle says, "Be
not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatso-
ever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
For he that soweth to the flesh shall reap cor-
ruption; but he that soweth to the spirit shall
reap life everlasting." Accordingly, true
Charity is the love which Jesus had when He
cried with a loud voice, "Father, forgive them,
for they know not what they do." Also Ste-
phen, when stoned to death, cried out, saying:
"Lord, lay not this sin to their charge;" and
when he had said this he fell asleep. He knew
that an evil spirit had enraged them and
blinded their eyes. When we become fully ac-
quainted with the power that a wicked spirit
has upon the mind, will we not have fervent
Charity for our Father's family? I believe
our mission to earth is to become acquainted
with both the evil and the good.
