HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOW is the time to subscribe for Volume Ten
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Let woman sus-
tain the voice of woman in the press.

	SISTER Lucy A. Johnson, of Kanab, writes to
"Sister Eliza" that the P. A. had a party on the
9th ult. They have 158 names enrolled, with
130 average attendance. The R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A., as well as the Primary, are in a pros-
perous condition.

	MEDICAL LECTURE.—For the benefit of a
medical student about to graduate at Ann Arbor,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will give a lecture, which
will be a continuation of the one given in the
Theatre some time ago. It will probably take
place in the Social Hall on Tuesday afternoon,
May 24, exclusively for ladies.

	BY private letter to President E. R. Snow
Smith, from Mrs. Wilmirth East, we learn that
the Relief Societies in the Eastern Arizona Stake
of Zion are in a flourishing condition, under the
presidency of Sister East. She states there are
five organized wards, with sufficient members to
admit of Primary organizations, which they ex-
pect will be attended to this coming summer un-
der the direction of Pres. Jesse N. Smith.

	AT the 20th Ward P. A. Anniversary, held
on the 19th ult., there were a variety of things
on exhibition which have been made for the
Children's Fair, which will be held in S. L. City
sometime in September next. These articles
were all of the children's manufacture, neatly
executed, and certainly the little folks deserve
encouragement. There were baskets and vases
of flowers made of wool and of wax, many pretty
varieties; also mats, tidies, pincushions, pillow-
cases, dolls dressed and mottoes worked, all by
the little girls. There was a handsome bracket
made by a little boy, and several other pieces of
work well finished. The exercises were well ar-
ranged. Miss Celia Sharp recited "Whistling
in Heaven," Misses Emily Sharp and May
Mitchell sang "The Lover and the Bird," Master
Owen read "Address to Little Boys," Kate
Romney recited "Father, now the day is past,"
Misses Georgiana Toone and Nettie Gibson sang
"Little Sunshine," Belle Solomon, essay on
"Obedience," Masters Wm. Phillips and John
Sharp dialogue about a pocket book, song, Mary
Romney, "The Child's Unfinished Prayer,"
reading, Master Knight, "Obedience to Parents,"
Ida Sansome "Robin's Complaint," Eliza Knight
"Jane's Evening Prayer," organ solo, Emma
Lyon, dialogue by six little girls, essay on "Good
Behavior," Alice Phillips, Master Joseph Decker
sang "Trust the Children, Never Doubt Them,"
he is a very little fellow, and performed his
part admirably, and he has a sweet, rich voice;
Maggie Calhoun recited "Little Children may
be Useful," Georgiana Toone recited "The Mar-
tyrdom of the Prophet," by Mrs. M. J. Tanner;
there were other songs, recitations and essays
and singing by the Association, all well rendered.
Miss Kate Miller presided at the organ during
the entire afternoon. Everything was done
well and in order, and reflects great credit upon
all who took part in the arrangements.


