CONTINUED.

	My father says: "I had frequently felt a de-
sire to visit the shores of Europe, and believed
that the time would soon come when I should
take leave of my own country and lift up my
voice to other nations, and warn them of things
which were coming on the earth, and make
known to them the great things which the Lord
had brought to pass; yet it never occurred to
my mind that I should be the first commis-
sioned to preach the Everlasting Gospel on the
shores of Europe, and I can assure my friends
I was taken by surprise when I was informed
by the Prophet Joseph, who came to me June
4th, being the Sabbath day, while I was seated
in the front stand above the Sacrament table,
on the Melchisedec side of the Temple in Kirt-
land, who opened the door and whispered in
my ear, 'Brother Heber, the Spirit of the
Lord has whispered to me, saying: Let my ser-
vant, Heber, go to England and proclaim my
Gospel, and open the door of salvation to that
nation.' Feeling my weakness to go on such a
mission, I asked the Prophet if Brother Brig-
ham might go with me; he replied he wanted
Brother Brigham to STAY WITH HIM, for he
had something else for him to do. In a few
minutes afterwards Hyrum Smith came; he
also opened the door of the pulpit and informed
me of my appointment."
	"The idea of being appointed to such an im-
portant mission was almost more than I could
bear up under; I felt my weakness, and was
nearly ready to sink under the burden which
was placed upon me, and I could not help ex-
claiming: 'O Lord, I am a man of stammering
tongue and altogether unfit for such a work!
How can I go to preach in that land which is
so famed throughout Christendom for learn-
ing, knowledge and piety—the nursery of re-
ligion—and to a people whose intelligence is
proverbial?'"
	"However, all these considerations did not
deter me from the path of duty; the moment I
understood the will of my Heavenly Father, I
felt a determination to go at all hazards, be-
lieving that He would support me by His Al-
mighty power, and endow me with every quali-
fication that I needed; and although my family

[Column 2]
were dear to me, and I should have to leave
them almost destitute, I felt that the cause of
truth, the Gospel of Christ, outweighed every
other consideration."
	"I was requested by Joseph to retire to El-
der Rigdon's after meeting, where the First
Presidency would meet and set me apart for
the mission."
	"When the Presidency came and were about
to lay hands on me, Elder Orson Hyde stepped
in, and partaking of the Spirit of God while
hearing what was going on, said: 'Brethren, I
acknowledge that I have sinned before my God
and you, and I beg of you to forgive me.' The
Presidency rejoiced and praised the Lord at
this manifestation of repentance of Brother
Hyde, who said, if they found him worthy, he
desired to accompany me on my mission to
England, or go on any other mission. The
Presidency then laid hands on me and set me
apart to preside over that mission, and confer-
red great blessings upon my head; said that
God would make me mighty in that nation in
winning souls unto Him; angels should accom-
pany me and bear me up, that my feet should
never slip; that I should be mightily blessed
and prove a source of salvation to thousands,
not only in England, but America. After
which, Elder Hyde was set apart, receiving
similar blessings; also Prest. Joseph Fielding
was blest and set apart for the same mission.
	"After being called on this mission, I daily
went into the east room in the attic story of
the Temple, and poured out my soul unto the
Lord, asking his protection and power to ful-
fil honorably the mission appointed me by his
servants; that the God of Joseph and all the
holy prophets and apostles that were before
him would be with me by the administration
of his holy angels, and that I might have
power so to live that all the blessings that had
been conferred upon me in that house might be
fulfilled, as I candidly believed that they
would."
	"At this time many faltered in their faith;
even some of the Twelve were in rebellion
against the Prophet of God. John F. Boyn-
ton said to me, 'If you are such a d—d fool as
to go at the call of the fallen Prophet, Joseph
Smith, I will not help you a dime; and if you
are cast on Van Dieman's Land, I will not
make an effort to help you.' Lyman E. John-
son said he did not want me to go on my mis-
sion, bnt if I was determined to go he would
help me all he could; he took his cloak from
off his back and put it upon mine.	*	*	*
Brothers Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Sen.,
Brigham Young, Newel K. Whitney and oth-
ers said, 'Go and do as the Prophet has told
you, and you shall prosper and be blessed with
power to do a glorious work.' Hyrum, seeing
the condition of the Church, when he talked
about my mission wept like a child. He was
continually blessing and encouraging me, and
pouring out his soul in prophecies upon my
head; he said, 'Go, and you shall prosper as
not many have prospered.' "
	"A short time previous to starting I was laid
prostrate on my bed from a stitch in my back,
which suddenly seized me while chopping and
drawing wood for my family, so that I could
not stir a limb without calling out from the se-
vereness of the pain. Joseph, hearing of it,
came to see me, bringing Oliver Cowdery and
Bishop Partridge with him; they prayed for and
blessed me, Joseph being mouth, beseeching
God to raise me up, &c. He then took me by
the right hand and said: 'Brother Heber, I
take you by the right hand in the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth, and by virtue of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, I command you
in the name of Jesus Christ to arise, and be
thou made whole.' I arose from my bed, put
on my clothes, and started with them, and
went up to the Temple, and felt no more of the
pain afterwards."

[Column 3]
	"Elder Willard Richards having returned
from his mission the day before, I met him on
the street and told him: I am now ready to
fulfil the prophecy spoken through me last
January, as I intend to start for England to-
morrow; and I wanted him to go with me.
Considering himself involved in business with
Brother Brigham, he did not believe he could
go; but upon consulting Presidents Hyrum
Smith and Sidney Rigdon, and Brother Brig-
ham agreeing to take charge of the business
responsibilities, he was set apart at 6 p. m. by
Brothers Hyrum and Sidney to accompany
the mission to England."
	P. S. In what I said in May 1st concerning
my father's biography not being published, I
did not wish to throw any blame upon Mr. Tul-
lidge, and fearing that some may possibly think
so, I consider it no more than right that an ex-
planation should be given. He was the worst
disappointed, and the only one that I felt sorry
for; he was poor, and my father's family com-
paratively rich, though some had their property
in a shape not to be easily handled or turned
into money. My mother's youngest son, Solo-
mon, was the first to propose having our fa-
ther's biography written by Tullidge, as he had
just read Brigham Young's, and he gave liber-
ally towards it, and he has never regretted it.
When it was mentioned to Heber he readily
donated largely.

To be continued.


