	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—Although
young, and inexperienced in the art of com-
mitting my thoughts to paper, still, as a mem-
ber of the Church of which your valuable pa-
per is an able advocate, I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to lend my aid, as far as I
am capable, towards sustaining everything that
tends to strengthen our cause. It is to the
young that I wish more particularly to speak,
as it is they who should be guarded the most
from the many snares that are laid for their
feet.
	I have often been led to reflect that our
young folks do not appreciate the many bless-
ings that are showered upon them. This is
true in many things, but I will mention but
one at present, which to me assumes gigantic
proportions when I look around and see the
evidences of their neglect. As a general rule,
the children born in these mountain districts
are strong and healthy dnring the early period
of their lives. This generally continues until
they get to the age when they think they must
enter “society;” and from this time until they
enter wedlock their lives are a round of gaiety
and pleasure; or so they generally esteem it at
the time, but after this, when they assume the
responsibilities of wife and motherhood, they

[Column 2]
reap the full reward of their folly. This is
more applicable to the girls, but when carried
to excess has a degenerating effect on both
sexes.
	About the first thing a girl thinks she must
do, before going out into society, is to encase
herself in a pair of stays, which every person
who knows anything of the human frame will
aver is most injurious. By this method she
succeeds in cramming her heart, lungs, liver,
etc., into as small a space as possible above her
waist, and her stomach, bowels, etc., below,
thus misplacing and injuring every internal
organ of her body, and laying the foundation
for many diseases in the future, that she little
dreams of now. I was told by an M. D. only
a few days ago that she had met with more fe-
male complaints in her little practice here, in
proportion to the population, than she had in
the old country; and she attributed it to danc-
ing and tight lacing.
	How often, girls, have you gone to a party
dressed, probably in much thinner clothes than
you are used to wearing every day, and very
likely in a condition that should have prompted
you to remain home and get rest and quiet?
How often have one and all of you danced till
you could hardly set one foot before the other,
and your clothes so wet you could almost
wring the perspiration from them? Nor does
the story end there. From the ball room out
she goes into the cold night air, with very
likely improper and insufficient wraps, and if
she is one of the fortunate ones who possesses a
lover, an hour or two is the least they can allow
for a confidential little chat, and this must take
place either at the gate or in a cold, perhaps
damp, room, for fear of disturbing the family,
Who can wonder that after such an ordeal, re-
peated so often, our girls lose their bright eyes,
rosy cheeks and elastic step, and become lan-
guid, hollow-eyed and sickly? You need not
start, girls, you know it is the truth in many
cases, and more or less in nearly all. I know
it is the truth, for I have been through the
mill and can see the folly of it now, and can
see where many, very many, of our sufferings
might be relieved if we would take proper
care of our bodies while they are developing
into womanhood. You may deem me radical
in my ideas, but experience, study and obser-
vation teach us a great many truths. I believe
recreation to be as necessary as food and drink
to the human being, but nature’s laws will
not be outraged without repaying tenfold the
insult offered to her dignity. It therefore be-
hooves us, my young sisters, to study her laws,
and for our own interests, as well as future
generations, to succumb to them.
