DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I read your valuable paper with interest, and
many an article finds an echo in my heart;
and I often think, how often is our path
through this world of care and sorrow made
pleasant by an exchange of ideas, a kindly
word dropped here. a smile there, and a little
self-sacrificing to please others.
	As I muse this evening, my mind reflects
back just two years to-day. How vividly I
call to mind the kindness of my brothers and
sisters, which I hope I may never forget and
with your permission I will relate it—perhaps
it may bring comfort to some of my sisters
who are liable to pass through like circum-
stances, and make them feel they are surround-
ed by kind friends.
	Two years ago my husband was called to go
on a mission to Germany. The time for his
departure was drawing nigh. One day, while
busily engaged in preparations for his journey,
my thoughts and hands busy, at times I would
feel sad, and my aching heart would seem to
say, Oh, can I shoulder this responsibility—be
both a father and mother to my little ones?
But it was but for a moment; my thoughts
would ascend to my Heavenly Father, asking
Him to aid and assist me, and thanking Him
that we were counted worthy to help just a lit-
tle in the noble work. And in the ups and
downs of the past two years, I have found Him
a true friend and comforter. But I am forget-
ting my story. I was just ironing the last shirt,
when a brother stepped in and invited us to
supper at six o'clock punctually at his house.
I cheerfully accepted. At the appointed time
we were ready. My husband and I sat talking
a few minutes about his near departure, when
one of the children called out, "Oh, ma, the
band is coming to our house." Imagine our
surprise, as we stepped to the door, to see some
of the Stake Presidency, our Bishop and
Counselors, headed by the Martial Band.
Without ceremony we were told to follow, so
on we went, the band playing. As we drew
near the meeting house, on one side of the
street stood members of the Relief Society,
and on the other the Y. L. M. I. A., who
greeted us. Still we passed on, not knowing
where we were going, until we entered the
meeting house, where were two long tables
filled with the bounties of life, and surrounded
by our brothers and sisters. They seated us,
and after the blessing was asked told us to par-
take; but I was too full to eat. After supper
we spent the evening in dancing, recitations,
singing and speeches, and I have never expe-
rienced such a spirit of good feeling as was
there manifested, nor will I ever forget the
kindness shown us there; and in the past two
years it has often comforted me, for I felt I was
among friends, and they have since proven
themselves such.
	Oh, how little do the world know of the true
happiness of serving the living God, and try-
ing to live our most holy religion! God grant
when my husband returns our labors may be
accepted, and we will still go hand in hand re-
joicing in the great and grand work of the last
days.							ANNA.


"Living Links" and "Life Incidents," will
be concluded in the next issue.

	"The Wild Flowers of Deseret" will short-
-ly be issued from the Juvenile Inztructor Office.


