TOOELE.

	The Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele Stake was held
in Tooele City March 12 and 13, 1881, Mrs.
M. A. Hunter presiding. Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters P. L. Kimball, M. I. Horne,
S. M. Heywood and R. B. Pratt. The Con-
ference was conducted as usual, except there
were no reports, the Secretary being absent.
	After usual opening exercises—singing, and
prayer by Bishop Atkins—Sisters Kimball,
Horne and Heywood each addressed the sisters,
giving motherly and encouraging counsel, ex-
horting them to become intelligent on all sub-
jects and seek to fulfil every duty and obliga-
tion in life, and to beware of evil influences.
Referred to the great and good work being


done in the various organizations towards the
higher education of woman. Dr. R. B. Pratt
also made some excellent remarks, and Bishop
Atkins said he had been edified by the instruc-
tions of the sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Associations
held their Conference, which was well attended
by children and parents, Mrs. R. Williams
presiding. Reports and minutes were read by
the Secretary, Mrs. E. Broomhead. The Presi-
dent asked the children questions, which they
answered promptly. Sister Heywood then
asked them some questions, and gave them
some very good advice as to the course they
should pursue in order to become great and
good. Sister Kimball cautioned the children
never to neglect their meetings, to be obedient
to parents and teachers, and always speak the
truth. Sister Horne said she could see a
marked improvement in the children since they
had been organized; told them not to use to-
bacco, nor drink liquor of any kind, but be
orderly and punctual and honor their parents.
Spoke upon faith, and gave some illustrations
by telling them circumstances of the power of
God manifested in healing the sick. Dr. Pratt
also occupied a few minutes in speaking to the
children.
	The next morning was very stormy, but the
sisters visited the Sunday School, and after the
exercises were over addressed the children.
In the afternoon the Young Ladies’ Conference
convened. After the Sacrament was adminis-
tered, the reports were read by Secretary Miss
E. Broomhead, and Mrs. Ann Tate, President
of the Y. L. M. I. A. Tooele Stake, made some
introductory remarks. Tooele City Associa-
tion was represented by Miss Primrose Waters.
Sisters Heywood, Pratt, Kimball and Horne
made suitable remarks to the young. Presi-
dent H. J. Grant commented most favorably
upon the good teaching of the sisters, and said
if we could practise these good instructions in
our lives, it would be worth a great deal. Tes-
tified to the great influence young girls could
have over young men; said they could start a
reformation in morals and their labors would
not be in vain. Sister Tate said in conclusion
she felt thankful for the good instructions of
the sisters, and hoped they would sink deep
into every heart. Conference adjourned till
the middle of June; to be held in Grantsville.
Benediction by James Dunn.
