WOMEN STORING GRAIN.

	It is a well known fact that the women in Zion
are laying up wheat against a day of need. This
benevolent enterprise was commenced in the
fall of 1876, and from that time until the present
the sisters in their various organizations have
felt it both a duty and a privilege to donate and
take care of grain. All those who have read our
little paper will remember the editorial in Octo-
ber 15, 1876, which was written according to offi-
cial instructions on this subject.
	At the Jubilee Conference the sisters agreed
by vote to loan the wheat—but the Bishops were
to be the responsible parties in the affair, and re-
ceipts given for wheat loaned were to have the
signature of the Bishop of the respective local-
ity. It was woman's part of the blessing of the
poor in the Jubilee year, and the same quantity
of wheat was to be returned again into the pos-
session of those who had charge of it.
Now, the question has been sprung, "Are the
sisters to keep on lending the wheat? and, Can
they have so much on the bushel for lending it,
as the farmers do who are in the habit of lending
to each other?" No such counsel has been given.
Were the Saints to pursue this course, the
wheat might be lent out just at the time when
some unforeseen need might arise, and the bread
stuff be wanted for the emergency.
	The wheat was to be kept stored up, until it
was called for by the presiding authority of the
Church, and it was not proposed to traffic in it.
Exigencies may require it sometimes to be used
or lent, but in all cases it must be regulated by
presiding authority.
	It certainly is a great labor, and will be more
so as the quantity of grain stored increases year
after year; but the way will open for the sisters
to fill this important mission, if they persevere
and do not become weary in well doing. Al-
ready storehouses and bins have been built in
nearly all the settlements, and others are mak-
ing efforts to erect suitable buildings for the
same purpose. It was an original idea, to be
sure, that women should store grain, but they
have succeeded in accomplishing a great deal, by
littles, and much remains to be done in the fu-
ture. In the meantime, take care of that which
you have, and add to it all that you consistently
can, instead of disposing of it in any other ways.
Let us not relax our efforts in this laudable un-
dertaking, for assuredly the day is coming when
wheat will be more precious than gold. It is
really something unknown in the past history of
nations, for women to be engaged in preparation
for famine, but this mission has been given to
the sisters in this day and age, and it is no doubt
for a wise purpose. There is every prospect for a
bountiful harvest this year, and let the sisters,
those who labor for Zion and her interests at
home, redouble their exertions to increase the
quantity of wheat in the women's storehouses.


