"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."

	This prolific subject is intelligently and
truthfully treated upon in one of the leading
journals of the day, the "North American" Re-
view, by President George Q. Cannon. The
article has been largely commented upon in
other journals and newspapers, and it will no
doubt be the means of enlightening many "who
sit in darkness" on the "Mormon" question.
Strange to say, there is still gross ignorance in
regard to Utah, its people and institutions, and
there are many who seek to complicate the
subject by willful misrepresentations, to further
their own purposes and destroy the influence of
those who have made the desert a desirable
dwelling place. They would hinder the "Mor-
mon" people from enjoying the privileges of
American citizens, representing them as a na-
tion of foreigners, holding ideas entirely at va-
riance with republican institutions. The writer
in the Review speaks of the large proportion of
men and women of Puritan, or New England
lineage. It is true, that go where you will in
Utah, in the smallest and most remote settle-
ments, you are sure to find a goodly proportion
of Yankees, or people from Ohio, New York
and Pennsylvania. In considering the nation-
ality of those who hold positions of importance
in women's organizations, it is a remarkable
fact that we find a very large percentage from
the Eastern and Middle States. But we as a
people do not recognize these facts in a religious
point of view, and those who embrace Mor-
monism, women as well as men, renounce their
allegiance to king, queen, foreign potentate and
powers, and identify themselves at the earliest
possible moment with the government of Amer-
ica, the country of their adoption.
	One of the leading journals in the East, in
speaking of Mr. Cannon's article, says: "He


gives a man's views and ideas upon the subject
of plural marriage, but no woman participates
in the debate, which is so emphatically a wo-
man's question—a question of the home." The
solemn protest of the thousands of women who
assembled in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in Jan-
uary, 1870, and in the Theatre in the fall of
1878, and spoke in unmistakable terms upon
the platform, and also voted upon resolutions
sustaining plural marriage, was certainly as
strong a point as could be made in any debate
upon the subject. It was the testimony of
wives and mothers, whose practical experience
entitled them to speak intelligently. Several
of these representative ladies had been married
long before they embraced "Mormonism," and
were fully acquainted with domestic life as it
exists in the world. It was not a radical, en-
thusiastic meeting, but a very large number of
ladies met in sober earnest, to give sincere ex-
pression to their faith, sentiments and prac-
tices in the marriage relation, and it was most
emphatically "the question of the home." The
speeches at the Theatre were reported verbatim,
ten thousand copies were published in pamphlet
form, the women paying the expense of print-
ing, etc., and they were sent out in all direc-
tions. This is not all; women can give as good
and as sound reasons on this subject as men
can, and are as zealous to sustain its practise.
							E. B. W.


