STARS AND FLOWERS.

The heavens are studded with gems to-night,
	With glistening gems of beauty rare,
As if they were eyes of celestial light,
	Kindly and tenderly watching there.
Some sparkle with brilliance fair and bright,
	Encircled at times with a halo of light;
While others appear to our finite eyes,
	Of paler hue and inferior size.

In the shady lanes of my English home,
	The honeysuckle's pure and fragrant bloom
Peers out from above the topmost bough,
	Affording pleasure to high and low.
The birds and bees sip the nectar rare,
From out the cells of the climbing plant;
Then flutter away thro' the scented air,
	And twitter their joy in a tender chant.

But we need the daisy and violet sweet,
	That nestle down in the grass at our feet,
They whisper, in accents soft and mild,
	Of love and joy to the little child.
Welcome each tiny blade and flower,
	In shady nook or on sunny brow;
Thrice welcome to those who have not power
	To gather them from the "topmost bough."

And some there are in the world of thought,
	Whose light shines forth like the stars above;
The world is richer for truths they've taught,
	The earth more fair for their words of love,
And some whose light is of paler hue,
	That is seen and felt by only a few,
Yet is of the same celestial fire,
	The same sweet spirit has tuned their lyre.

'Tis a glorious thing to be great and wise,
	To labor for all the human race,
To vindicate those the world despise,
	And bring all nations face to face.

The humble and meek need not despair,
	The field is large and the vineyard wide;
The worker is needed everywhere—
	In the shady lanes and rough wayside.
Yes, workers are needed in every home,
	For such as these there is always room—
To guide the feet of the erring youth,
	And scatter the seeds of love and truth.

If all the stars were brilliant and bright,
	The flowers climbed to the ivy's height,
And none for the little ones low and sweet,
	The picture would be incomplete.
							ESTHER A. BENNION.
April 10, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
