CONTINUED.

	In Rome, once the Capital of the world, and
still celebrated for its art galleries and many
antiquities, Sister Eliza spent five days, travel-
ing with a guide who was a lecturer and pro-
fessor of Archaeology, which was of great bene-
fit to her. In this grand old city she visited,
among other places of special interest, the Vati-
can Palace, residence of the Pope. Our young
people may read a true and interesting descrip-
tion of this magnificent palace in the "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists." Among
other remarkable places visited in Rome, she
mentions the Cemetery of the Capuchins, where
she saw "millions of human bones assorted and
arranged, some in arches,* others symmetrically
formed into niches, where other bodies were
placed in a reclining position;* some of these
arches were crowned with severel rows of
skulls.* Everything, the chandeliers, candle-
sticks, etc., were made of bones." After care-
fully going over the most noted places and cu-
riosities of Rome, the party left for Naples,
arriving Jan. 25, where they visited Hercula-
neum and Pompeii, and a portion of the party
ascended Mt. Vesuvius; Sister Eliza tells us her
"ambition was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder at a lower point." She
styles Naples "a city of pomp and beggary."

[Column 2]
	From Naples the party went by rail to
Brindisi, from there by steamer to Corfu, an
island belonging to Greece. Sister Eliza says
the condition of many of the Grecian women
living in the country is that of "beasts of bur-
den. From Corfu the party embarked at mid-
night, Feb. 2, on an Austrian Steamer, Saturno,
and reached "Alexandria on the morning of
the 6th. She says the voyage was delightful.
On board the Steamer, she wrote a poem en-
titled "Sunrise on the Mediterranean," from
which we make an extract:

"We mounted Saturno's deck to see
	A grand, magnificent scene—
The rising sun in its majesty,
Diffusing its goldeu sheen.

"A charming precursor first appeared,
	In volumes of golden rays,
Increasing their splendor till all aronnd
	The horizon seemed to blaze.
*		*		*		*		*
"The sparkling waves of the sea below,
	The blazoning over head,
The horizon wrapped in a buruing glow,
A thrilling enchantment spread."

	No doubt such a woman as Sister Eliza
would have many peculiar feelings and thoughts
in crossing the Mediterranean, so connected
with the life of Jesus and the Apostles. It
must have been a great satisfaction to one of
her religious nature to visit the Holy Land.
In Alexandria she began to feel that every-
thing was foreign, though the perfect "medley
of nations, religions, costumes, colors and dia-
lects," with the curious appearance of the city
and its surroundings made it specially inter-
esting.
	The next place of note was Cairo. Here
she saw the Khedive and many places of Scrip-
tural interest. From Cairo they went to Suez,
via the Red Sea, then back to Ismalia by rail-
way where they took steamer for Port Said.
From thence on board the Vesta of the Aus-
trian Lloyd line of steamers, and anchored off
the coast of Jaffa: At Joppa they commenced
tent life,after the Eastern manner, and traveled
with pack animals and on the backs of don-
keys, etc. Sister Eliza walked some distance
to see the "house of one Simon, a Tanner, sit-
uated by the sea side." Here was this veteran
woman, wife of the Latter-day Prophet, in the
country of sacred story, wandering through
groves of lemon and orange trees, treading on
"consecrated ground," where once trod our
blessed Savior and his Apostles, and where the
charm of his presence lingers still. She trav-
eled over the "beautiful plains of Sharon, and
encamped at night at the entrance of the val-
ley of Ajelon." Next day they rode through
the valley, and journeying on through those
world-famous places, they arrived in due time
at Jerusalem, where they visited the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, and in the vicinity, the
Pools of Solomon, the Tomb of Rachel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan River, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc. In Jerusalem Sister
Eliza seems to have been in a poetic mood;
"The Dead Sea—a Monument" was written
there. The poem opens thus:

"Though 'dead,' it is a living monument.
'Tis peerless, archless, towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embellishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine."

	It has been truly said by a modern author,
Sister Eliza possessed the Hebraic genius of in-
spiration, and no doubt this was fully aroused
by the subjects which presented themselves
during her journey over that memorable Jew-
ish land. Her prophetic vision opened to the
future, the re-building of Jerusalem, and con-
templated its coming glory in striking compar-
ison with the past. In fact, her soul seems to
have been wonderfully wrought upon, and as a
daughter of the House of David, of the royal
line, she bursts forth in song and apostrophizes

[Column 3]
Jerusalem. After speaking of its departed
glory, its historic name and character, its
wealth, its fame and grandeur, the curse under
which it had rested, etc., etc., she prophecies of
its future magnificence, and says:

"Thy sun has not forever set—
	God has a great design,
And will fulfil his purpose yet,
	Concerning Palestine.
The appointed hour will surely come,
	According to his will,
For God with faithful Abraham
	His covenants to fulfil.
*		*		*		*		*
"Thy walls shall be of precious stones,
	Thy gates of richest pearl;
And on thy tow'ring battlements
Shall sacred banners furl."
*		*		*		*		*

	There was something in Sister Eliza's visit-
ing Palestine not apparent to the careless ob-
server, and it was in fulfilment of prophecy.
Her tour through the Holy Land was a mission,
and she had the spirit of it, as one ever does
when called to carry out some sublime purpose
pertaining to the latter-day work.
			To be continued.


