BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Back steps are sometimes necessary to propel
us forward, and it seems I rather deal in this
mode of proceeding for I find I must retro-
grade a little in this era of Victoria. I have
spoken in my last section of Prince Albert vis-
iting England, and the association of the cous-
ins; but the Queen took an opportunity to in-
form her Uncle Belgium that she thought her-
self too young for any engagement, and wished
all such to be waived for two or three years.
Prince Albert was also notified to this effect,
she being little more than eighteen, with the
weight of a great and mighty empire upon her
shoulders. Of course, all had to obey this de-
cision; and it seemed a wise one. In October,
1839, Prince Albert and his brother again vis-
ited England their destination being that fine
old castle of Windsor, built by the Empress
Maude, which received the young Princes, and
the Queen herself received them at the top of
the royal staircase, amid all the magnificence of
the noble domain, as though they had been
Emperors. A noble circle of visitors were as-
sembled to meet them, who were all on the qui
vive to see how the royal cousins bore each oth-
er's society. Prince Albert was then a fine-
grown, handsome young man, with a counten-
ance indicative of his character—gentleness,
deep thought and high intelligence were
stamped upon his expressive features. All were
at once charmed with his appearance and man-
ners, which bespoke high purpose and con-
scientiousness. The visit proved a happy one.
The brothers had arrived on the 8th of Octo-
ber, and though it was understood that all
love-making was prohibited, about the 15th a
change had come; still it was no small matter
to address the Queen regnant of England, the
path was an intricate one; what had to be said
must be said by her, not by him—a necessity
of etiquette. The Queen sent for him to her
boudoir. He is ushered in by a footman, and
the door is closed. Then of course propriety
did not cease, but probably extreme etiquette
did, love told his own tale and was intelligible
to both, and when they emerged from that
room arm in arm it was visible to all that the
halo of love encircled them, and they had be-
come one!
	And now another trying scene had to be

[Column 2]
gone through, in which she was the principal
actor—she had to meet her Lords in council,
to announce to them her intention to receive
Prince Albert as her Consort, and felt it her
duty to apprize them of her decision; feeling,
she added, that she would be increasing the
happiness and prosperity of her country by
such a step, etc. Imagine, my young readers!
these were unique and mighty ordeals for a
girl of eighteen to pass through. But in all
such great events, it was remarked in every
paper throughout the country, how collected
and how dignified was her deportment at such
times, the only indication of emotion was her
extreme pallor; and at her coronation the dia-
mond stomacher she wore trembled glitteringly
betraying the pulsation of her whole system.
Though in the midst of a crowd of loving sub-
jects, she yet literally had to stand alone through
all. Think of it, and bless the girl for her coura-
geous nobility!
	I will here relate a circumstance that was
lovingly reiterated at the time all through the
country, as a trait of her womanly amiability.
At one part of the coronation, when she had
passed all the ceremonies, the crown placed
upon her head, and she was seated alone upon
the throne, the great officers of state make
their obeisance to the sovereign kneeling on
one knee; the dais on which the throne was
placed had to be ascended by two or three steps,
and a very old and infirm nobleman slightly
tripped and nearly fell. The Queen actually
impulsively sprang from her seat as though to
help him. Of course, in a moment attendance
was at hand, and all went on as though noth-
ing had happened; but the action was lauded
by all, far and near. Yes, Victoria has ever
been a natural woman!
	The childhood of Queen Victoria had been
spent in comparative seclusion, and without os-
tentation of any sort. Her mother the Duch-
ess of Kent, was a wise, judicious parent, and
knowing her grand and responsible future, pre-
pared and educated her for her high position.
Of course she had every assistance from the
most learned and exalted characters; but for
her moral training she was indebted to her
mother. And as a daugther she was most ex-
emplary to the latest hour of her life. In
every important event she considered her
mother's feelings; even when the poor wretch,
Oxford, fired a pistol at her, as she and Prince
Albert were riding in one of the parks in a
pony phaeton, the Prince clasped her in his
arms, exclaiming, "Thank God, you are safe,"
she said, "Drive me to my mother's house, that
she may first hear the news from me!" How
lovely the child in the woman, was exhibited
in this desire. They, of course, immediately
drove to the Palace at Kensington, and she
joyfully and even playfully related the event
to her mother. Prince Albert was almost
overcome with contending emotions, as well he
might be; yet she desired at the trial of the
imbecile that his life might be spared, and as
far as consistent her merciful desires were car-
ried out. Thrice her life was attempted at that
time, but in all cases she would have no life
taken for the deed.

The quality of mercy is not strained,

*		*		*		*		*		*

It becomes the monarch better than his crown,
It is an attribute of God Himself;
And earthly power doth then show likest God,
When mercy seasons justice!"—SHAKESPEARE.

[Column 3]
	There is real courage in Victoria. Like
Elizabeth, she has impressed herself upon her
people and her court. Libellous attacks have
been made upon her, but she has endured them
calmly and quietly. Her children are not un-
worthy of her, and they hold her sacred as
their Queen-mother. Princess Beatrice, her
youngest daughter, is an example to all daugh-
ters, of whatever grade; she has devoted her
young life to her as her companion, reader, at-
tendant, and as it were, her shadow. Princess
Alice was an angel in disguise within the fam-
ily circle—the watchful friend and assistant of
all; but she has passed away to join her la-
mented father in the realms of peace and joy.
	The death of Prince Albert was in one sense
a death-blow to the Queen. She has ever since
seemed to exist under a cloud, though the voice
of the country has somewhat aroused her from
her apathy, and of late she has in some degree
thrown off the incubus that enthralled her, but
every anniversary of that sad day she holds
sacred, visits the Mausoleum with her children
and one or two select friends, and her private
chaplain, and they strew the choicest flowers—
elegant wreaths, crosses, and bouquets—over
the tomb containing those loved ashes. A sa-
cred service of prayer is also always observed,
and the day is one of meditation and seclusion.
Within this Mausoleum is a sarcophagus, made
by the Queen's order at the time; it has two
recesses for two coffins, the Prince is laid in one,
and all know who is intended to occupy the
other. In death they will not be divided.


