ON MARRIAGE.

	I have long wished to write something to the
young readers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Al-
though I am a long way from you, and may
never be permitted to greet you in your meet-
ings, or your homes, yet I have an ardent desire
to talk a little to you, and give you some advice
upon obedience to parents, especially in refer-
ence to marriage, which is the turning era in the
life of the young, and much depends upon a wise
choice, a union of purpose, and where there is


need of trust and strength to guide. I would
say to my young brothers and sisters, with the
experience of forty years I have never known
one happy marriage that was contracted in oppo-
sition to parents (that were parents in the true
sense of the term). No doubt there have been
rare instances where parents have wished, nay
commanded their children to marry persons
when their only motive was money, or aggrand-
izement, but such cases are exceptional indeed.
Let me say something more to you, be ye not
unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for
it is not right in the sight of your Father in
Heaven.
	Oh, that I had the voice of an angel,that would
penetrate to every ear and every heart of the
young people of the world, and more especially
those in Zion, born heirs to the Holy Priesthood.
Nev[-]r marry against your parents' wishes and
sanction; if you do, you will live to heave the re-
gretful sigh and to lament in bitterness your dis-
obedience. Remember what I tell you is truth.
You want first to seek God and his favor, then you
will be led to do right and guided securely in all
things. I will tell you some of my experience.
When I first heard the Gospel I was thirteen
years of age; young, innocent and ambitious. I
believed it. Do you think I embraced it? No, I
did not; my pride forbade me to give up the
honors and popularity of the world, and follow
that despised people called "Mormons." Do
you suppose I would acknowledge then that I
believed "Mormonism?" No. But I have lived
to heave the regretful sigh, to repent in dust and
ashes my pride. What is my pnnishment now,
think you? It is to look back upon a lost life,
and to rep[-]at over and over again the saddest
words that e'er were said, "It might have been."
Would to God you could realize it as I do, with-
out the terrible experience!
	My dear young brothers and sisters, live the
religion of your fathers and mothers, and you
will never be sorry, or regret it when you are
old. I know that the Latter-day Gospel is true,
and if you receive and retain it, you will be
saved in the Celestial kingdom. You will be
happy here and hereafter. If you would but
hearken unto the commandment, obey your
parents in all things, for that is well pleasing
unto your Father in Heaven, you will never re-
gret it in this life nor in the life to come. I be-
seech you, in the name of Jesus, as one who has
suffered from the folly of disobedience, to heark-
en unto what I have written. I want your
prayers in my behalf, that I may yet be permit-
ted to gather with the Saints. I am here in the
midst of unbelievers, those who are full of preju-
dice, and all manner of lies are circulated against
the Saints. I never have an opportunity of even
seeing an Elder. The EXPONENT is a great
comfort and blessing to me. My mother and
myself are the only persons that believe in the
Latter-day work in this section of the States.
Our families and relatives are all opposed to us,
yet our faith is strong.
				Yours truly,
