OBITUARY.

	Died in Centerville, April 16, 1881, Mrs. Re-
becca Chandler Ford. Deceased was born in
Great Grand, Huntingtonshire, England, Dec.
23, 1814, was the daughter of Elizabeth and
William Chandler. June 23, 1834, was united
in marriage to John Ford. In 1850 she was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and in 1854 emigrated with her hus-
band and family to Salt Lake City, where she
passed through various scenes of privation and
trial, but was ever firm and steadfast in her
faith. She came to Centerville in 1855, and has
resided here ever since.
	Sister Ford had eleven children, seven of whom
are living, three daughters and four sons. She
leaves quite a posterity upon the earth, seven
children and twenty-eight grandchildren. She
was an affectionate wife and an exemplary
mother; her loss is keenly felt. Her sickness
lasted twenty-four days and her sufferings were
great, all of which she bore with patience. She
frequently spoke of death, but always with
calmness and resignation. Sister Ford was in
the best sense of the word a woman of God. Her
life has been faithfully devoted to the advance-
ment of his kingdom and doing good to her
brethren and sisters. Her faith in the princi-
ples she had espoused was unbounded, and her
fondest hope and desire was that her children
should ever revere, sustain, uphold and advocate
Mormonism. She was of a gentle disposition,
and great faith. Was a member of the Relief
Society of the Centerville Ward; has always
been active, energetic, even zealous in the per-
formance of every duty pertaining to the relief
of the poor and the needy, the orphan and the
fatherless. She has lived and died the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and has passed away in
glorious hope of a part in the first resurrection.
She has joined the hosts of friends behind the
vail who are looking forward to a re-union with
those who remain. She will be deeply mourned
by her posterity and many friends and acquain-
tances, and her memory will be proudly cher-
ished by those who knew her many virtues, her
loving disposition and honorable life.

"Vain are the trophies wealth can give—
	Her memory needs no sculptured art;
She's left a name, her virtues live
	Like shining tablets on the heart,"

