KANAB STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the R. S. of
Kanab Stake convened in the Kanab School
House March 11, 1881, Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Besides the presidents of
the various wards, we were privileged with the
presence of Apostles F. M. Lyman and John
Henry Smith, and a number of the leading
brethren of the Stake.
	Meeting opened by singing "Once more we
come before Thee now." Prayer by Coun.
Lucy A. Johnson. Sang, "O awake, my slum-
bering minstrel." The presidents of the sev-
eral wards gave good verbal reports; said their
societies were prospering, the sisters were doing
their duty, trying to live their religion, and
helping one another. Pres. H. Bunting felt
pleased in having the presence of Apostles Ly-
man and Smith, and so many of the brethren;
hoped that we would be benefitted by their
counsel. Presidents H. E. Spencer, James L.
Bunting and Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun.,
gave the sisters some very wise counsel, encour-
aged them to good works and to live the lives
of Latter-day Saints.
	Apostle J. H. Smith said, "I have listened
with pleasure to the remarks of the sisters. It
is a matter of great interest to meet with those
who are laboring for the upbuilding of society.
The mission of woman is one of the greatest
and noblest on earth. She has much to do in
fashioning and framing the minds of men. To
a great extent she molds the minds of our poli-
ticians and statesmen. She is constantly in
the presence of her children, and what woman
makes up her mind that her cdildren shall be,
to a great extent they will be; and as she de-

[Column 2]
termines, so shall society, communities and na-
tions be. If the women of the Latter-day
Saints block the wheels of Progress, it is a hard
struggle for the men; on the other hand, if
they determine that their sons and daughters
shall assist in the consummation of the great
and glorious work of the latter days, it is in
their power to fit and prepare them for that
work. How careful should our daughters be
trained, that they may carry with them in
their future life every virtue of their mother.
Show me a mother that is neat and orderly,
and I will show you a race of sons and daugh-
ters who will follow her example. Whatever
mark I may make in life, I owe that to my
mother. Sisters, so train your daughters, that
should they be in the company of ladies of the
outside world, they can give a reason for the
hope that is within them. Never allow them
to go from home without you know where they
are and what company they keep. Teach them
the nature of their organization. Teach them
so that they would prefer to be broken at the
rack than that their pure bodies should be pol-
luted; and the fathers teach the boys the same.
If you do this you will be blessed in your old
age, and your children will be your pride and
glory. They will grow up around you as
bright buds and blossoms. If you take the op-
posite course they will leave you, and your sor-
row will be great. It is a source of pleasure
to me that the sisters are doing much good.
Let us wear homemade clothing; make your-
selves beautiful with the workmanship of your
own hands. Adorn your minds with intelli-
gence—that is the principle we are after. I
would rather have true knowledge and true
science than all the riches of this world."
	Apostle F. M. Lyman said: "The remarks of
the sisters are good; if you are diligent and put
them in practice they will be a benefit to you.
It is well for the sisters and brethren to labor
together in the training of their children. It
is true that the molding of the destinies of
men depend very much on the mother; yet I
hold that it is a great thing for the children to
have a good father, and for the sisters to have
a good husband. If there are two or three
wives, he should be a very good man. Still, I
admit that a great responsibility rests on moth-
ers. We should see that our wives and daugh-
ters are intelligent, for we cannot expect intel-
ligent children from ignorant mothers. The
virtue of woman should be a body guard to
her. She should so carry the impress of that
virtue on her countenance, that her very pres-
ence could quell the rudest of men; and
guarded by that virtue she could travel around
the world and be sacred from insult among the
most base."
	The Apostles also gave much good counsel
to the brethren.
	Pres. Bunting felt the time had been well
spent. Wished the sisters to treasure up the
good counsel they had received and profit
thereby. Conference adjourned for three
months, to be held at Mt. Carmel. Sang, "Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation." Dis-
missed by Apostle F. M. Lyman.

