[CONTINUED.]

	"After disposing of the dead the best that we
could, we commended their bodies to God and
felt that He would take care of them, and of
those whose lives were spared. I had plenty to
do to take care of my little orphaned children,
and could not stop to think or dwell upon the
awful occurrence. My poor, wounded boy de-
manded coustant care, and for three months I
never left him for a moment night or day. The
next day after the massacre, the mob came back
and told us we must leave the State, or they
would kill us all. It was cold weather; they had
taken away our horses and robbed us of our
clothing; the men who had survived the battle
were wounded; our people in other parts of the
State were passing through similar persecutions,
and we knew not what to do.
	"I told them they might kill me and my chil-
dren in welcome. They sent to us messages
from time to time, that "If we did not leave the
State they would come and make a breakfast of
us." We sisters used to have little prayer meet-
ings, and we had mighty faith; the power of
God was manifested in the healing of the sick
and wounded. The mob told us we must stop
these meetings, if we did not they would kill
every man, woman and child. We were quiet
and did not trouble any one. We got our own
wood, we did our own milling, but in spite of all
our efforts to be at peace, they would not allow
us to remain in the State of Missouri. I ar-
ranged everything, fixed up my poor, wounded
boy, and on the first day of February started,
without any money, on my journey towards the
State of Illinois; I drove my own team and slept
out of doors. I had four small children, and we
suffered very much from cold, hunger and fa-
tigue; and for what? For our religion! In this
boasted land of liberty the edict went forth, deny
your faith, or die. I recollect some of the names
of the men who took part in this scene of blood-
shed and slaughter. There were two brothers
named Comstock, Wm. Mann, Benjamin Ash-
ley, Robert White, and one by the name of
Rogers, who took an old scythe and cut an aged
brother, who had been a revolutionary soldier,
all to pieces."
	"I leave it to this honorable government to
decide what my damages are. My husband
and son killed, another wounded nigh unto
death—for I verily believe only the power of
the living God preserved him—stripped of all
that could make life desirable, my horses, my
goods, and even my pocket book taken from me—
the hundredth part of my sufferings can never
be told in words; but there is One above Who
knows all things, and into whose hands I commit
my cause.
	"I once asked one of the mob what they intend-
ed when they came upon our camp; he answered
they intended to kill everything that breathed.
I felt the loss of my husband greatly, but re-
joiced that he died a martyr to the cause of
truth, instead of having apostatized. He went
full of faith and in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. As for myself, I had unshaken confidence
in God through it all. I had been personally ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph, and knew
him to be a man of God, knew his works and
his unblemished character, and this knowledge
buoyed me up under every trial and privation.
The journey to Illinois was a hard one, but the
Lord was with me in passing through those try-
ing scenes. In Quincy, Ill., I found friends who
took me in and supplied my wants for a season.
As soon as I could I commenced teaching school,
which brought me in means sufficient to supply
the wants of my family
	"In the year 1839 I married again, to a man
bearing the same name as my deceased husband
(Warren Smith), though they were not in the
least related. He was also a blacksmith, and
our circumstances were prosperous. We went
to live in Nauvoo, and remained there until
after the exodus. By this marriage I had three
children, Amanda Malvina, who died in Nauvoo,


at the age of nine months; also Warren Barnes
and Sarah Marinda, who are still living, the
former at Lehi, the latter at Hyde Park.
	"I remember accurately the occurrences that
transpired in Nauvoo. The dreadful death of
the Prophet and Patriarch, the gloom that hung
over the fated city, and the heavy grief and sad-
ness that rested upon the people who so truly
loved them.
	"I enjoyed the privilege of seeing the Temple
finished, and of receiving therein the blessing
of holy ordinances. Willard, my first-born son,
also had his endowments in that Temple, and
came out among the first who left there; was
one of the Mormon Battalion, who were called
to go to Mexico while en route to find a resting-
place for the Saints.


