CONTINUED.

	This was a terrible blow for Mary, who
scarcely knew how strong her hopes had been
until they were dashed to the ground. He
said he would take Nettie from her; it added a
terrible fear to her other distress. What means
he would use to accomplish his purpose she did
not know, and she lived in daily fear that the
child might be stolen. She consulted her
friends, who told her that if not divorced he
might claim her by law, but if divorced and
appointed as the child's guardian, he could not
take her in that way.
	She accordingly presented Jesse's letter to
the court and procured a divorce on his de-
mand. It seemed to her the only way to do,
she must give him a bill if he wanted it, even
though it broke every tendril of her heart

[Column 2]
asunder. She could not part with her child,
her youngest, her pet. What could Jesse do
with her, away off among strangers, with no
tender mother to care for her. She was a deli-
cate child, and many times Mary had watched
over her when death seemed very near, but,
putting all other considerations aside, the
mother love was strong, and she would never,
never part with her child. That decided what
she otherwise might have lingered over, and
the bill was procured which separated her for-
ever from Jesse. She had always loved him
with a pure and strong affection. She had
borne the separation with fortitude so long as
she thought she should see him again, and if
her heart sometimes failed and the time seemed
long, she would read his loving, hopeful letters
and try to think that perhaps he was doing for
the best; he was working for her and her chil-
dren, and a generous portion of this world's
goods was very alluring, yet she would rather
share his company with poorer prospects. But
he was lost to her now forever, and her heart
cried out in her loneliness and desolation and
refused to be comforted.
	She was cast adrift, without anchor or guide,
without hope or comfort, alone among stran-
gers; but she had her religion and her God.
She had no relatives in Salt Lake to lean upon,
she had left them all behind when she deter-
mined to follow the fortunes of the Church.
Father, mother, sisters and brothers—all were
left so far off they were as dead to her, seem-
ingly, as if the grass was growing over them.
They had plead with her to stay where she
could have home, friends and comforts, for
they felt as though she was going to her doom,
in leaving the dear home ties and family circle
forever. "And for what a fate?" said they; "to
suffer and perhaps perish in the wilderness, in
a strange land, among a strange people." The
Mormon Church was gathering from all na-
tions, and beyond their general belief in reli-
gious professions, they had no sympathy in
connection with her people, and they begged
Mary to stay with them a while, and if Jesse
would go, let him prepare a home before taking
her. She would not listen to them. Jesse was
her guide and God was her strength; she would
share his fate, whatever it might be. And
here she was, and Jesse had gone and left her
alone. He could accuse her of being false!
she, who had never thought of any other man
except as he comprised a part of the great
Father's family; she, whose every pulse had
beat for him; who had suffered toil, privation
and care patiently for his sake; who had
strengthened him in his weakness, and com-
forted him in his sorrow; the mother of his
children, the partner of his life. And he
could doubt her! could even accuse her of de-
siring to leave him that she might get another
husband. The thought itself was too hnmil-
iating, and the injustice of it smote her as with
rod of iron. He surely never would have been
so cruel had it not have been for Howard; he
could not have thought such things about her.
Howard had vowed vengeance when he left
her in his anger, and this was the means he
had taken—to part them by prejudicing Jesse’s’
mind against the people, which would make
him reluctant to return, and create jealousy
against Mary. He had succeeded too well,
and she felt that her heart and hopes were
crushed forever.
	Salt Lake, in those days, did not afford many
facilities for women to support themselves,
Mary had never learned the lesson of self-
helpfulness, and she was not fitted for hard
labor. A lady, no doubt kindly disposed, of-
fered to give Minnie employment as maid of
all work, and the Church held out its kindly
arms, making provision, through the Bishops,
for the poor. Minnie was not strong, and
Mary, who had been raised to be served and
not to be a servant, felt how great a change
had come into her life. She could not think of


her tender, graceful child, just budding into
womanhood, leaving her, she must have the
comfort of her child's presence, and the thought
of being dependent on the Church was indeed
dreadful.
			[To be Continued.]


