[Vol46 | February 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Question]
[A Fireside Chat on a Burning Question]

"I attended the University of Utah," she tells us, "'and I have taken one six-weeks writing course since coming to California in 1936. I have sold over seventy short stories, a few plays, around twenty articles, and two serials. I belong to a small writing group here in Stockton, and have been invited to join the Sacramento Branch of the Pen Women, which I intend to do shortly. I have one son, Douglas, a high-school student. He is an ardent science fan, a good athlete, and an all-around good student. My current Church position is that of historian for the Stockton Second Ward Primary Association, work that I thoroughly enjoy. I also act as a visiting teacher for the Relief Society organization." o> Winter Comes to the Fills Elsie McKinnon Strachan This soundless dawn, the wind lies still— Like silence held to make a wish, And winter quiet cloaks each hill; The woods stand mute in silver hush. The new snow glistens, mile on mile; And none but my early footprints mar The hallowed whiteness of this aisle— For I, alone, am trespasser. She Central Atlantic States [Tlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Central Atlantic States Mission was formed on October 26, 1947, at Roanoke, Virginia, under the direction of Elders Albert E. Bowen and Henry D. Moyle, of the Council of the Twelve, by a division of the East Central States Mission. The new mission comprised the States of Virginia and North Carolina, except that part of Virginia that had been included in the Washington Stake. It also included the following coun-. Ties in West Virginia: McDowell, Mercer, Summers, Greenbrier, and Monroe. Elder James R. Price of Phoenix, Arizona, was chosen as the first president of the new mission. Headquarters was established at Roanoke, Virginia, where a mission home was purchased. During the month of November 1947, Elder Bowen and President Price made a tour of the mission and held meetings in Petersburg, Norfolk, Elizabeth City, Harker's Island, Wilmington, Goldsboro, Durham, and Colfax. During this visit Elder Bowen set apart David L. Hiatt of Mount Airy, North Carolina, as first counselor to President. Price. Later in the month, Rudger G. Smith of Phoenix, Arizona, was set apart as second counselor. President Price presided over the Central Atlantic States Mission a little more than four years, during which time all phases of the missionary Photograph by Hugh Morton Submitted by Lovell W. Smith GREENFIELD GARDENS, WILMINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA Page 8&8 THE CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION 89 @Ginieey Chamber of Commerce, Roanoke, Virginia Submitted by Lovell W. Smith MONTICELLO, HOME OF THOMAS JEFFERSON Charlottesville, Virginia work were greatly stimulated and increased. In January 1952, he was succeeded by Claude W. Nalder of San Francisco, California. President Nalder continued the work that had been initiated by President Price and labored with great diligence, until the second week of August 1955, when he was admitted to a hospital in Roanoke, following a severe chill. On August 18, 1955, he passed away. 'The cause of his death was given as uremic poisoning. His passing brought great sorrow to the missionaries and saints of the Central Atlantic States Mission. Elder Henry A. Smith, former President of Pioneer Stake and for many years a member of the staff of the Deseret News in Salt Lake City, arrived in Roanoke during the latter part of September 1955, having been appointed to take charge of the mission. He is presiding at the present time. In September 1958 it was reported that there were 10,073 members of the Church in the Central Atlantic States Mission, located in fifty-seven branches. Sixty Relief Society organizations, with 1192 members, were reported in December 1957. Lovell W. Smith presides over the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, 'Sunset on the James River, Virginia, from the site of Jamestown Landing of 1607, showing William Couper's statue of Captain John Smith," is from a transparency by Frank Dementi, and was submitted by Lovell W. Smith. See also "Recipes from the Central Atlantic States Mission," page 101. Contentment, Thou Art Priceless! ARIAN Cooper was still - irritated at herself for coming; on this family excursion at all. After all, she had never been sentimental about her forebears; and there were many other things she should have been doing. It 'was only because of her brother's insistence that she finally had been persuaded to make the trip to Wellsville to see the ancestral Bennett home. Here they were, all six of the grandchildren and their spouses, gathered on the lawn in front of the old rock house built by Grandfather Bennett. 'The house was still sturdy and in fairly good repair, after 101 years of occupancy. Marian marveled that Grandfather could have built such a well-preserved structure.