Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III — Approximating Dates. If the class will open their last lesson on Genealogy in the April Magazine, on page 203, the form there given will furnish this month's lesson. You will note the first name, William Young, who is said to have been born "about" 1698. You will find other dates on this form with the word "about" placed just before them. Again, you will see that this same William Young is said to be, in the "Where 
 Born" column, "of" Hopkinton. So are his wife and two children. While his grandchildren are all born in Hopkinton. Now these two words, "about" and "of" are used very carefully by the true genealogist. We may be permitted to guess at dates and places of birth under certain conditions. If we have evidence that a man really lived in a certain town, we may say that he was "of" that town. We should not say that, however, unless we have good evidence to substantiate that fact. We do wrong to give haphazard facts, or to make loose guesses as to where and when persons were born or lived. So, too, there is a pretty safe rule to be followed in estimating a man's birth, if we have dates to work on. Even then we should not do parents or children unless we know that he lived. It is true we have all had parents and grandparents back to Adam; but we cannot assume that their surnames were the same as ours; for, the habit of surnaming people is a comparatively modern one. If we have the Christian names of our dead kinspeople and some dates and facts to go on, we may approximate some dates, and some facts. For instance: we do not know when William Young or his wife Hannah were born; but we know when William's son Joseph and his daughter Elizabeth were married. Elizabeth, the oldest child, was married 22nd June, 1743. Assuming that she was about twenty years old, when she was married — which is a good average assumption for a woman's age at marriage — then she was born in 1723. Next, if we assume that her father was about twenty-five years old when Elizabeth was born — that also being a safe average for a father's age on the birth of his oldest child — William Young would be born "about" 1698. William's wife Hannah would be in all probability about five years younger than her husband. So now, we may formulate a rule for: APPROXIMATING DATES. Allow five years between the ages of the parents, and twenty-five years between the father and his oldest child. In other words, twenty-five years between generations is a pretty safe average in approximating birth dates. If you will take the trouble to go back on your own line, for a century or two — if you have a long pedigree — you will find that your dates fall pretty well in this average. If you have any one date, you should not approximate any other date. There is one point, however, which must be emphasized in this matter: always label your "guess" facts and dates as such. When you are guessing at a person's birth date or place of birth, use the words "about" and "of." Then everybody knows these are approximated facts and dates. GUIDE LESSONS. 249 It is unnecessary to guess at birth dates, if you have death dates, dates of burial, of marriage, of deeds or other fixed dates for the person. It is only when no date at all is known that you are justified in approximating a birth date. And even then, no death or marriage date should ever be approximated. A man is certainly born, but he might not have been married at all, although the father of a family. If a man is spoken of in a record as a widower, you may safely write in the death column that his wife died "prior to" the date of his second marriage; and in that case, there is no need of approximating a birth date for the wife. The same rule holds good concerning the date of a man's death when his wife is spoken of as a "widow." You can say that he died "prior to" the date of the widow's second marriage, repeating the marriage date of the widow in the death column of the first husband, preceded with the words, "prior to." For example: NAME When Born Where Born May Died 17 10 Mr. Smith of Boston, Mass. Prior to 2nd Marriage May 5, 1705 Mrs. Mary Smith, (widow) John Jones Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. LESSON IV — ECONOMY. Human beings cannot live without money or its equivalent. Therefore, the accumulation of means and its wise expenditure is one of the great problems of life, and certainly has its ethical value. The unwise handling of property is a frequent cause of trouble between husbands and wives. It causes difficulties between parents and children, or between brothers and sisters. And friends may become enemies on account of money matters. There is a vast difference between miserliness and wastefulness; either extreme is a serious fault, and should be studiously avoided: but to make lavish use of means on a moderate income is a great sin. All people who have the strength and the intelligence to labor should have the strength of character and the intelligence to save a portion of the product of their labors. Small savings persistently gathered, amount to great accumulations in the passing 
 of the years. Such a course provides against poverty and dependence. Nearly always, the people who can and do help others are people who understand economy and practice it— often to the extent of great self denial. Poverty is a disgrace, when it is the result of shiftlessness, indolence or self-indulgence. Wealth is a credit when it is the result of labor, intelligence, care and self-denial. It is much easier to spend money than to earn, and frequently it is easier to earn money than to save it. Uncivilized man has little care for the future and spends with lavish hand. With him it is often a case of "feast or famine." Men of higher intelligence try to provide for the future, and to be prepared for any emergency. Civilized man has many needs and many more wants. It is a fine thing to be able to discriminate between our actual needs which are not usually expensive and our many wants which cost so much. Samuel Smiles says: "It is only when men become wise and thoughtful that they become frugal. Hence, the best means of making men and women provident is to make them wise." People sometimes hesitate to be frugal for fear of being called stingy. It is far better to be called stingy than really to be unwise. And in deciding just what one will spend, there is an opportunity for discipline and self-control. In most families the man is the wage earner, and the woman is largely responsible for the expenditure. That fact clearly implies the need and the importance of the careful training of girls for their responsibilities. It is quite as important for girls to learn to spend money wisely as it is that boys should be taught how to earn money and how to invest their savings wisely and carefully. In family life, the husband and wife should co-operate. There should be a perfect understanding between them as to financial matters. Many a man has become discouraged and many another has gone to financial ruin, and quite needlessly so, just because his wife did not have the right understanding in regard to his business affairs. Women sometimes become indifferent, and even reckless, because of the management or mismanagement of the head of the family. The regular monthly allowance for the home, handed over to the wife, when possible, would put an end to much difficulty and mental turmoil. The training schools for boys and girls in business and in home-life have done very much to make interesting and popular the kind of work that once was looked upon as drudgery. They GUIDE LESSONS. 251 teach us how to get the best results with the least expenditure of energy and means. There is joy in labor well performed, and it certainly contributes to happiness and refinement in home life. Our government, too, issues bulletins of great value to husbandmen and housewives, containing matter prepared by scientific experts. It seems as if the time must arrive when ignorance on practical subjects will be almost inexcusable. Our revered pioneer leaders, in early times of great need, did much to educate the untrained people of their day. President Brigham Young was a noted economist, theoretical and practical. One saying repeated of him is: "A housewife can throw out of the window with a teaspoon as fast as a man can shovel in at the door." Another, "If you have a million bushels of wheat, you have not one kernel to waste." It is said of President George A. Smith that he never went into a town that he did not give practical and useful advice, citing instances for the betterment of conditions. His clear-sightedness caused others to see what might otherwise have gone unobserved. These are only two of the inspired, leading men. Among our beloved women leaders there were highest examples of refinement, industry, thrift, economy and noble womanhood. Elizabeth S. Wilcox. QUESTIONS. Give some results of unwise handling of property. Name some extremes we should avoid. When is poverty a disgrace? When is wealth a credit? Tell the difference between civilized and uncivilized men, on the subject of economy. Who are the frugal people? What should be the attitude of people towards constructive criticism? What about the training of boys and girls? What about mutual understanding and co-operation, in family life? Give some of your views in regard to settling the difficulties that arise. What effect has industrial training in the schools had upon our community? Name some of the ways in which free information of high value may be obtained? How was it in the early days? Let each member be ready with a quotation suitable to the subject. — E. S. W. 
 ART. If there is anything lovely * * * we seek after these things. "Articles of Faith," written by Joseph Smith. Devotees and their Shrines pp. 36-55. (a) In what is Alfred Lambourne most gifted? What are his favorite themes. Which of his books have you read? (b) What has J. T. Harwood's influence been on Utah Art? Outline his attainments. What effect has his temperate life exerted upon his art? Describe his versatility as an artist. Which of his pictures do you like best? Why? Which shows most feeling? strongest imagination? most dramatic power? most love or most feeling? Where were these five pictures exhibited in Europe? To what group of pictures belongs "The Old Mill" in Liberty Park? This mill was built by Brigham Young. Have you visited it? Describe this mill. Where does James T. Harwood teach? What does Rose Hartwell say of him? p. 67. Show, or describe, one of Harwood's paintings that you have seen. What constitutes the Utah Art Institute? What work did J. B. Fairbanks do for the Art Institute? Give a resume of his life and work. Tell something of his sons. J. Leo and Avard. Describe his picture you like best. What are his favorite themes? What can you say of his copies? Have you visited the Old Social Hall to see the pictures exhibited by Salt Lake Artists? Colds. By Maud Baggarley. "Just an ordinary cold" is a very common expression. But people are beginning to awaken to the fact that a cold is not ordinary, and calls for "first aid" immediately. Many persons never fully recover from the effects of a neglected, ordinary cold. It often leaves in its wake serious afflictions, the greatest of these being tuberculosis. A cold prepares the way for these foes greater than itself. Many make the mistake of dressing too warmly and wearing too many wrappings about the throat; others have the clothing unevenly distributed about the body. The older people usually wear too much, the young too little. If it were only possible for both classes to strike the happy medium! COLDS. 253 Other factors in the production of "ordinary colds" are the stove or furnace in winter, and closed doors and windows. The feet should be kept dry — and warm if possible — the shoes not too tight; round garters should not be worn, as they interfere with the circulation; the food should be plain and easily digested, since colds are often caused by over-eating. (I heard a physician say, recently, that the greater per cent of cases of pneumonia in children comes from injudicious diet.) The home should be well ventilated. One should keep in mind, however, the fact that cold air is not always pure air. Cold air, from an unused room, may be stale and loaded with impurities. The treatment for a cold is simple and inexpensive. The circulation must be equalized, since there is always a disturbance. At the onset of a cold, one should drink quantities of hot water, take a dose of physic, and go to bed for a few hours, or a day, if possible. On retiring at night, take the juice of half a lemon in a glass of water; soak the feet in hot water; and put a cloth wrung out of cold water about the neck, and cover with a dry cloth. If there is a cough, eat dry salt freely. A teaspoonful of glycerine taken at intervals is also good for the cough, but nothing is better than dry table salt. If the cold is not better the second day, put a mustard plaster on the chest until the skin is red, but not burned, afterwards anoint with olive oil. Mentholatum and Lyman's Cough Embrocation are both excellent to rub on neck and chest to relieve the cold. The diet must be light, nourishing, and easily digested, that the organs of elimination may be free to throw off the waste. Rest is necessary. Most drugs are useless— the simple, home remedies being best. A stubborn cold that refuses to yield to home treatment may be the beginning of serious trouble, hence, a reliable physician should be called. Whatever you do, never neglect a cold. FARM WOMEN. Women interested in Home Improvement on the farm should write to Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Office Building No. 215, Washington, D. C., or the Senator from the State in which they live, for report 104 "Domestic Needs of Farm Women," Report 105. "Educational Needs of Farm Women," and Report 106 "Economic Needs of Farm Women." McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah — — INCORPORATED — SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family— and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE All Relief Society Members who study the Art lessons in the guide, need Devotees and Their Shrines to prepare their lessons. Send to this magazine headquarters or Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostler Court, Salt Lake City. Price $1.25 postpaid. 120 illustrations THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design — beautiful in finish — pure and sweet, rich and full in tone — the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Only Under The Jensen Name Will You Find "Jensen" Quality There are scores of butters. But super-quality such as Jensen's Butters are noted for, is to be found only under the "Jensen" name. Two styles put up: "Four-in-one," four separately wrapped prints, and "Blanchard," the standard size print. Both full pound in weight. Call for them by name. Jensen Creamery Co. Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Supplies for Temple THE UTAH STATE Uses; NATIONAL BANK, Those who desire neat, attracSALT LAKE CITY tive and moderate-priced articles UTAH for rent or purchase, for use in It is the purpose of this Bank at the Temple, should apply to all times to render helpful service and make the handling Relief Society Headquarters, of your banking Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. HOMESEEKERS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.