[Vol47 | February 1960 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Oh Say, What Is Truth?]
'Oh Say, What Ys Sruth?" HE day-by-day living of an honest and truthful life of personal integrity can be guided and blessed by a knowledge and a realization of life's eternal purposes. A friend once asked a Latter-day Saint woman why she so often referred to the teachings of her parents and the attitudes and beliefs of her ancestors, saying that it was better to consider only the present day, without reference or thought to the past or the future. The woman's answer explained her belief in eternal continuity. For the gospel has given us a knowledge and understanding of the fulness of the plan of salvation and our place in the ancestral lineage. 'This allpervading truth tells us that we are not living for one day alone, or even for the earthly existence. From the time of Adam there were teachings upon the earth which illuminated with purpose and grandeur the lives of the people who served the living God. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth.... When he prepared the heavens I was there: when he set a compass upon the face cf the depth: When he established the clouds above.... Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him (Proverbs 8:22-30). If we had not this great and everlasting truth to guide our lives — this knowledge of the Father's Page 98 Qo. ' aa Be Honest with Yourse courts on high, where we communed with our heavenly parents — this knowledge of our privilege of returning, in eternity, to our former home — if we did not have this glorious blessing of truth, we might be indeed as one on a journey through a dark and forested landscape. We might see only the immediate surroundings and have no knowledge of the origin of our path or of its destination. How could we feel as much strength and serenity and hope and faith if we had knowledge of our present circumstances only? "Oh say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, for the limits of time it steps o'er." All of the most sacred events of earth life are given a deeper and a more tender meaning, because the light of truth glows upon them.