Guide Lessons for April 'LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) Elizabeth and Martha and Mary of Bethany Elizabeth: Measured by the magnitude of her mission, this woman stands next to the mother of Jesus in the line of greatness. She was a descendant of Aaron and a kinswoman of Mary; thus having within her veins the blood of royal and priestly descent. Her name Elizabeth, meaning worshiper of God, fitted her nature. She became the wife of a descendant of Aaron, a devout man and they lived to a good old age childless. Her husband |was a Judean priest. The day on which he kept the incense burning on the altar in the inner court of the temple and supplicated the Lord for posterity was a most eventful one for Elizabeth. 1 She was officially announced, by an angel from on high, as an. Elect woman, who said to Zacharias, the priest, thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. The loftiness of her election can be understood in the light of the words of the Savior, recorded in Luke 7:28. The d?claration made her by the Lord is to the effect that Elizabeth was the mother of one of the greatest prophets ever born. In explanation of the declaration of Jesus concerning the greatness of John the Baptist, the prophet Joseph Smith is recorded as saying: "It could not have been on account of the miracles John performed, for he did no miracles; but it was, first, because he was trusted with a divine mission of preparing the way before the face of the Lord. Who was trusted with such a mission before or since? Noman. Second, he was trusted, and it was required at his hand, to baptize the Son of Man. Whoever did that? Whoever had so great a privilege or glory? Whoever led the Son of God into the waters of baptism, beholding the Holy Ghost descend upon him in the sign of a dove? No man." (Gems of Joseph Smith, Compendium, p. 277.)  At Elizabeth's home, in the Judean hills, she enjoyed the confidential companionship of Mary. The sublime nature of this companionship may be understood in part by thinking of how "