[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V49_08_00_Misc]
The Cover: Field of the Shepherds, Near Bethlehem Color transparencies on the cover and in the article, "Jerusalem, City of Peace," were taken by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Frontispiece: Mount Wilson in the San Juan National Forest, Colorado Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1

Announcements For Your Daughter's Temple Marriage Custom Printed by Handy Mail Order 100 only $7.95 Other Styles 100 for $5.95 Write for FREE brochure and samples or send 25¢ for complete catalog. REXCRAFT Dept. R Rexburg, Idaho

$3.95 sO YOU WANT TO RAISE A BOY? W. CLEON SKOUSEN = TT BPSiv2 at AME LIDQA Qe << A This readable, common-sense account spans ''boyhood" from birth to age twenty-one. It portrays physical and emotional development year by year, outlines behavior patterns and problems and recommends how parents should react to them. The boy's relationship to the family, his adjustment to school, and such problems as ''telling tales'' and "taking a bath'' are considered. Illustrated. $4.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $ eee VOL (encircled) numbered books: ] 2 lS (SS Address oooo. Oiiccccececece eve cccceeescceeeetnnecetereecccceeseuceeeeneeeeeeeee: City Zone.. State Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. — ee me ee oe ee we Se Is your life insurance Beneficial? Many teachers — and family heads in other businesses, professions and trades — have discovered in Beneficial's Family Benefactor Plan a program exactly suited to their needs. This one plan covers not only the father, but mother Second Class Postage Paid I at Salt Lake City, Utah and children as well — including any future additions to the family. The cost is low and the benefits great. Your Beneficial Life agent will be happy to explain this plan — and other flexible modern insurance programs that can be tailored to your needs, family size and income. Call on him soon. Over a half billion dollars of life insurance in force. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance on Company Bi Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah