[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Coles]
[POETRY The Little Things — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 553 Hour of Dusk Christie Lund Coles]
holds  its  own  special  charm  —  the  poetry, 
the  lessons,  and  hearing  about  the  Church 
throughout  the  world  warms  the  hearts 
of  everyone. 
— Miss  Joyce  V.  Bartlett 
Braintree,  Massachusetts 
My  dear  mother,  Mrs.  N.  E.  Nielsen, 
gave  me  a  year's  subscription  to  T\iq  Kt- 
lief  Society  Magazine  as  a  birthday  gift. 
I  am  delighted  with  the  material  the  Mag- 
azine contains.  I  especially  like  the  poetry. 
In  the  May  issue  I  liked  the  frontispiece 
poem  ''On  a  May  Morning,"  by  Ouida 
Johns  Pedersen,  "Sonnet  for  a  Somber 
Day,"  by  Evalyn  Miller  Sandberg,  and 
"The  Sentinel,"  by  Zara  Sabin.  "Little 
Teamstress,"  by  Frances  C.  Yost,  and 
"Dare  to  Be  Different,"  by  Mabel  Law 
Atkinson  are  my  favorite  stories  in  the 
May  issue.  "Hand  to  the  Plow,"  by  Ilene 
H.  Kingsbury,  also  has  a  commanding  in- 
terest. 
— Remelda  N.  Gibson 
Tooele,  Utah 
I  have  enjoyed  the  lovely  writings  in 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for  many 
years.  I  couldn't  possibly  keep  house 
without  it.  There  are  so  many  helps  for 
everything,  especially  in  being  a  good 
wife,  mother,  and  neighbor.  I  have  used 
the  editorials  many  times  in  giving  talks 
and  also  in  helping  my  children  with  their 
assignments. 
— Shirley  J.  Brown 
Casper,  Wyoming 
Page  554 
Many  items  in  The  ReUef  Society 
Magazine  for  May  were  outstanding. 
"How  to  Give  a  Magazine  to  Someone 
Who  Is  111"  (by  Evelyn  Witter)  is  very 
well  written  and  so  true.  We  should  all 
follow  the  subtle  advice  in  it,  the  advice 
of  the  poet  who  said,  "The  gift  without 
the  giver  is  bare."  Then  there  is  that 
lovely  poem  "Wait  for  Me,  Sun"  (by 
Mabel  Jones  Gabbott),  a  poem  with  a 
new  lilt.  And  the  poem  "I  Love  You" 
(by  Florence  S.  Glines),  different  and 
heartwarming.  I  never  had  a  sister,  so 
I  made  copies  of  this  poem  for  folks  more 
fortunate  than  I.  Then,  on  Mother's 
Day,  my  sister-in-law  sent  this  poem  to 
me,  so  I  have  the  love  of  a  sister,  even 
if  I  missed  having  one.  I  hope  we  may 
see  many  new  names  in  the  Magazine 
and  many  more  fine  contributions  from 
the  old  names. 
— Agnes  Just  Reid 
Firth,  Idaho 
I  love  every  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  It  is  wonderful  reading  to 
sandwich  into  my  busy  days  of  caring  for 
our  six  young  children. 
— Jean  Longhurst 
Connell,  Washington 
Last  December  my  wife  was  given  a 
subscription  to  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. As  soon  as  she  has  finished  reading 
this  wonderful  little  Magazine,  then  I 
get  to  read  it.  When  her  subscription 
runs  out,  you  can  be  sure  that  a  renewal 
to  the  Magazine  will  be  one  of  her 
Christmas  presents.  "Sow  the  Field  With 
Roses"  (serial  by  Margery  S.  Stewart, 
concluded  in  June  1962)  was  a  heart- 
warming story,  and  we  look  forward  to 
seeing  more  of  Mrs.  Stewart's  stories. 
—Charles  L.  Collins  III 
Buena  Vista,  Colorado

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY^irfvGAZINE 
Motithly  Pablicdticn  of  the  Relief   Society  of 
5t   of   Latter-day   Sail 
AUGUST  1962 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE       Marianne    C.    Sharp     Editor 
Vesta   P.    Crawford    Associate  Editor  Belle   S.    Spafford     General  Manager 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
She  Knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  —  Part  V  —  Margaret   Mclntire  Burgess 
  Preston     Nibley  556 
My  Shadow  
 Celia   Larsen   Luce  573 
Sunday  Morning  on  Temple  Hill  
 Mabel  Luke  Anderson  578 
Jerusalem,   City   of   Peace   
 Christine    H.    Robinson  589 
nCTION 
Comjxiny  Best  
 Lael  Jensen  Littke  559 
Out    of    the    Wilderness    —    Chapter    2    
 Shirley    Thulin  566 
Hand  to  the  Plow  —  Part  IV  —  Dedication    Ilene   H.   Kingsbury  580 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
From  Near  and  Far  
  554 
Sixty  Years  Ago   
  584 
Woman's  Sphere   Ramona  W.    Cannon  585 
Editorial:  In  the  Family  There  Is  Strength  
 Vesta  P.  Crawford  586 
Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Annual  General   Relief  Society  Conference      588 
Relief  Society  Magazines  for    1961   Available   for  Binding      588 
Notes  From  the  Field:  Relief  Society  Activities  
 Hulda   Parker  603 
Birthday   Congratulations    
  632 
FEATURES  FOR  THE  HOME 
Vacation  By  the  Day  
 Betty  G.   Spencer  565 
My  Shadow  
 Celia  Larsen   Luce  573 
My  Family  Likes  All  Kinds  of  Fruit  —  Just  So  They  Are  Peaches    Vilate  R.  McAllister  574 
"Thou   Shalt   Not   Be   Proud"    
 Martha   Tucker   Fugate  577 
Family  Desserts  
 Mabel   Harmer  597 
Make   a    Drip-Dry   Apron    
 Janet    W.    Breeze  600 
Clara  Partridge  Stevens  —  Artist  With  Needle  and  Brush     602 
LESSONS  FOR  NOVEMBER 
Theology  —  "Engaged  in  a  Good  Cause"    Roy  W.   Doxey  610 
Visiting  Teacher  Messages  —  "He  Who  Doeth  the  Works  of  Righteousness   .    .    ." 
  Christine     H.     Robinson  615 
Work  Meeting  —  The  Latter-day  Saint  Home  Is  Well  Organized  —  Part  II 
  Virginia    F.    Cutler  617 
Literature  —  Henry  David  Thoreau  —  Individualist    Briant  S.   Jacobs  619 
Social  Science  —  Divine  Law  and  Human  Welfare    Ariel  S.  Ballif  625 
POETRY 
The  Little  Things  —  Frontispiece  
 Dorothy   J.   Roberts  553 
Hour  of  Dusk,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  564;  Hymns  of  Praise,  by  Ouida  Johns  Pedersen,  572; 
A  Summarization  of  the  Brief  Life  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  by  Hazel  Owen,  583;  Supplication,  by 
Catherine   B.    Bowles,    624;    On   Reaching   Shadows,   by   Mabel    Jones   Gabbott,    631. 
Published  monthly  by  THE    GENERAL    BOARD    OF   RELIEF    SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1962  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association 
Editorial  and  Business  OlTices :  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511; 
Subscriptions  246;  Ekiitorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
20c  a  copy  ;  payable  in  advance.  The  Ma£:azine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back 
"]^™^bers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of 
address  at  once,  giving  old  and   new   address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited   manuscripts. 
Page  555

she  Knew 
the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith 
MARGARET  McINTIRE   BURGESS 
Part  V- Margaret  Mclntire  Burgess 
Preston  Nibley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
IN  The  Rdiei  Society  Magazine, 
for  January  1918,  there  is  a  brief 
sketch  of  the  hfe  of  Mrs.  Margaret 
Mclntire  Burgess,  of  St.  George, 
Utah,  written  by  herself.  In  this 
sketch  she  relates  that  she  was  born 
in  the  State  of  Pennsylvania  in  1837, 
and  that,  about  the  time  of  her 
birth,  her  parents  were  converted  to 
the  Mormon  religion  through  the 
efforts  of  a  young  missionary  named 
Erastus  Snow.  Then,  in  the  year 
1840,  the  father  sold  the  family 
possessions  in  Pennsylvania,  and 
with  his  wife  and  three  children, 
moved  to  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Church. 
''When  we  arrived  in  Nauvoo," 
Margaret  wrote,  ''our  things  were 
stored  in  a  large  frame  building,  un- 
finished, owned  by  a  gentleman  by 
the  name  of  George  Telling,  being 
on  the  corner  of  Main  and  Parley 
streets.  Shortly  afterwards  my  father 
bought  the  building  and  had  it 
finished  up  comfortably,  and  we 
lived  there  until  the  general  expul- 
sion of  the  Saints  to  the  West." 
It  was  while  the  family  resided 
in  Nauvoo,  during  the  childhood 
of  Mrs.  Burgess,  that  the  following 
interesting  events  took  place,  which 
she  relates  as  follows: 
"We  were  close  neighbors  to  the 
Prophet's  family,  and  very  intimate, 
too.  The  Prophet  was  often  in  our 
home  for  short  visits.  One  morning 
he  came  in  and  noticed  I  had  a  piece 
of  flannel  around  my  throat.  He 
inquired  if  my  throat  was  sore. 
Mother  told  him  it  was,  and  she 
was  afraid  it  was  the  mumps.  He 
called  me  to  him  and  took  me  upon 
his  lap,   then  took   the  flannel  off 
*The  portrait  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  reproduced  on  the  opposite  page  was 
painted  by  Alvin  Gittins.  The  original  painting  hangs  in  the  board  room  of  the  Church 
Office  Building  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Page  556