[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 27 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Spencer]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Vacation By the Day Betty G. Spencer]
at  once  to  refine  a  man's  features,  any 
meanness  or  sensuality  to  imbrute  them 
[Ibid.,  pp.  224-225) . 
Many  have  gradually  come  to 
esteem  Thoreau's  contribution  to 
their  own  lives,  for  honestly  telling 
them  the  price  they  must  pay  if  they 
are  to  advance  toward  their  ideals. 
He  shows  them  how  —  first  of  all  in

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
621 
his  own  personal  life,  then  by  writ- 
ing them  his  method,  by  giving  them 
of  himself  in  an  integrity  of 
thought,  deed,  and  word.  The  writ- 
ing which  resulted  from  this  inte- 
gration of  the  author  and  his 
thought  produces  sentences  packed 
with  power,  as  exemplified  by  the 
following  excerpts  from  the  chap- 
ter ''Conclusion''  in  Walden. 
...  If  you  would  learn  to  speak  all 
tongues  and  conform  to  the  customs  of 
all  nations  .  .  .  obey  the  precept  of  the 
old  philosopher,  and  Explore  thyself.  ,  .  . 
If  a  man  does  not  keep  pace  with  his 
companions,  perhaps  it  is  because  he  hears 
a  different  drummer.  Let  him  step  to  the 
music  which  he  hears,  however  measured 
or  far  away.  It  is  not  important  that  he 
should  mature  as  soon  as  an  apple-tree  or 
an  oak.  .  .  . 
No  face  which  we  can  give  to  a  matter 
will  stead  us  so  well  at  last  as  the  truth. 
This  alone  wears  well.  .  .  .  Any  truth 
is  better  than  make-believe.  .  .  . 
Love  your  life,  poor  as  it  is.  You  may 
perhaps  have  some  pleasant,  thrilling, 
glorious  hours,  even  in  a  poorhouse.  The 
setting  sun  is  reflected  from  the  windows 
of  the  almshouse  as  brightly  as  from  the 
rich  man's  abode.  .  .  .  The  town's  poor 
seem  to  me  often  to  live  the  most  inde- 
pendent lives  of  any.  .  .  .  Sell  your  clothes 
and  keep  your  thoughts.  God  will  see 
that  you  do  not  want  society.  ...  It  is 
life  near  the  bone  where  it  is  sweetest.  .  .  . 
Superfluous  wealth  can  buy  superfluities 
only.  Money  is  not  required  to  buy  one 
necessary  of  the  soul. 
Rather  than  love,  than  money,  than 
fame,  give  me  truth  (page  331). 
Such  meaty  prose  exemplifies  the 
uniqueness  of  genius;  these  senten- 
ces are  as  individual  and  as  mem- 
orable as  Thoreau  himself.  They 
are  the  man.  Others  through  time 
have  expressed  similar  ideas,  nor  has 
Thoreau  a  monopoly  on  integrity, 
rare  indeed  though  it  may  be.  But 
it  is  his  sentences  which  are  his 
own,  embracing  and  quickening  all 
with  carefully  chosen  words.  Thus 
Thoreau  attained  perennial  youth  by 
creating  immortal  sentences,  mir- 
rors of  his  very  self.  These  he  re- 
corded in  his  journals,  polishing,  re- 
ordering, condensing  them  later  into 
his  lectures  and  books.  And,  like 
everything  else  about  him,  Tho- 
reau's  theory  of  composition  was  un- 
compromising and  noble;  the  hard, 
muscular  sentences  which  give  his 
pages  their  sustained  intensity  prove 
how  thoroughly  he  applied  his  own 
critical  principles  of  how  to  write. 
Some  of  his  statements  follow: 
1.  The  one  great  rule  of  composition  — 
and  if  I  were  a  professor  of  rhetoric,  I 
should  insist  on  this  —  is  to  speak  the 
truth.  This  first,  this  second,  this  third: 
pebbles  in  your  mouth  or  not. 
2.  A  sentence  should  read  as  if  its 
author,  had  he  held  a  plow  instead  of  a 
pen,  could  have  drawn  a  furrow  deep  and 
straight  to  the  end. 
3.  Good  writing  is  conversation  folded 
many  times  thick. 
4.  It  is  the  height  of  art  that,  on  first 
perusal,  plain  common  sense  should  ap- 
pear; on  the  second,  severe  truth;  third, 
beauty;  and  having  these  warrants  for  its 
depth  and  reality,  one  may  then  enjoy 
the  beauty  for  evermore. 
Even  the  sentences  which  state 
his  theories  are  themselves  "rooted 
in  fact  and  experience."  They  ring 
true  when  dropped  on  hard  ground. 
Thoreau's  Economics 
Although  Thoreau  had  a  keen 
sense  of  humor,  he  never  played  at 
life,  which  for  him  was  far  too  seri- 
ous an  affair  to  be  treated  lightly.

622 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1962 
True  son  of  the  Puritans  that  he 
was,  Thoreau  in  deep  moral  earn- 
estness felt  that  the  great  goal  of 
mortalitv  was  to  achieve  here  and 
now  the  greatest  joy  in  living  fully 
the  precious  gift  of  life.  And  the 
best  life  he  considered  to  be  attain- 
able only  through  self-discipline 
and  education,  completely  free  of 
any  bondage  or  self-slavery  which 
might  violate  the  most  precious 
freedoms  guaranteed  to  man  under 
the  laws  of  a  most  benevolent 
Nature. 
Thoreau's  masterpiece  Walden 
is  one  of  the  most  self-conscious 
works  of  literature  ever  written.  In 
its  first  great  chapter,  ''Economy" 
(see  text,  pages  473-484),  Thoreau 
makes  his  position  quite  clear.  He 
knew  exactly  what  he  was  doing, 
and  the  high  price  he  would  have 
to  pay  when  he  pointed  out  so 
bluntly  to  his  money-hungry,  ma- 
terialistic contemporaries  their  self- 
created  slavery  to  worldly  posses- 
sions. But  while  they  squandered 
their  freedom  to  seek  life's  highest 
goals,  Thoreau  forcefully  exercised 
his  precious  freedom  to  point  out 
their  sin,  aware  that  freedom  never 
brings  security  but  opportunity. 
And  for  Thoreau  the  opportunity 
which  freedom  granted  those  who 
were  truly  free,  was  the  opportunity 
to  ''suck  the  marrow  out  of  life" 
and  to  learn  that  "life  is  sweetest 
nearest  the  bone." 
He  pointed  out  how  man  blunts 
the  finest  qualities  of  his  nature 
by  making  himself  into  a  machine 
and  because  men  have  willfully 
turned  "luxuries  into  necessities," 
and  have  "become  the  tools  of 
their  tools,"  their  material  needs  do 
not  serve  them  but  tyrannize  them. 
Tn  fear  of  this  master  they  have 
become  desperate  and  cowed,  "Pub- 
lic opinion  is  a  weak  tyrant  com- 
pared with  our  own  private  opinion. 
What  a  man  thinks  of  himself,  that 
it  is  which  determines,  or  rather 
indicates,  his  fate." 
After  remarking  that  he  saw 
everywhere  about  him  his  fellows 
repenting  of  their  sins  in  a  thou- 
sand remarkable  and  endless  ways, 
Thoreau  attributed  their  self-im- 
posed slavery  to  tradition  and  to 
things.  He  believed  that  although 
"God  himself  culminates  in  the 
present  moment,  and  will  never  be 
more  divine  in  the  lapse  of  all  the 
ages,"  men  are  so  pressed  by  eco- 
nomic need  that  they  cannot  detect 
his  presence,  either  within  them- 
selves or  in  Nature. 
As  Thoreau  looked  at  man,  man 
never  permits  himself  time  to  live, 
so  desperate,  so  resigned  is  he: 
Why  should  we  live  with  such  hurry 
and  waste  of  life?  We  are  determined 
to  be  starved  before  we  are  hungry.  Men 
say  that  a  stitch  in  time  saves  nine,  and 
so  they  take  a  thousand  stitches  today 
to  save  nine  tomorrow.  (See  text,  page 
486.) 
If  we  are  divine,  and  the  culmina- 
tion of  God's  goodness,  "If  the 
engine  whistles,  let  it  whistle  till  it 
is  hoarse  for  its  pains.  If  the  bell 
rings,  why  should  we  run?"  In  con- 
trast Thoreau  advised  his  fellows 
to  spend  their  days  as  deliberately 
as  does  Nature,  which  he  himself 
did  at  Walden  Pond.  We  must 
remove  or  minimize  the  pressure  of 
material  needs  by  "lowering  the  de- 
nominator," by  keeping  our  ac- 
counts on  our  thumbnails,  by 
learning  that  we  must  "simplify! 
simplify!"      Only    then    will     our