[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hand to | Author: Kingsbury]
[Hand to the Plow — Part IV — Dedication Ilene H. Kingsbury]
May  issue.  "Hand  to  the  Plow,"  by  Ilene 
H.  Kingsbury,  also  has  a  commanding  in- 
terest. 
— Remelda  N.  Gibson 
Tooele,  Utah 
I  have  enjoyed  the  lovely  writings  in 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for  many 
years.  I  couldn't  possibly  keep  house 
without  it.  There  are  so  many  helps  for 
everything,  especially  in  being  a  good 
wife,  mother,  and  neighbor.  I  have  used 
the  editorials  many  times  in  giving  talks 
and  also  in  helping  my  children  with  their 
assignments. 
— Shirley  J.  Brown 
Casper,  Wyoming 
Page  554 
Many  items  in  The  ReUef  Society 
Magazine  for  May  were  outstanding. 
"How  to  Give  a  Magazine  to  Someone 
Who  Is  111"  (by  Evelyn  Witter)  is  very 
well  written  and  so  true.  We  should  all 
follow  the  subtle  advice  in  it,  the  advice 
of  the  poet  who  said,  "The  gift  without 
the  giver  is  bare."  Then  there  is  that 
lovely  poem  "Wait  for  Me,  Sun"  (by 
Mabel  Jones  Gabbott),  a  poem  with  a 
new  lilt.  And  the  poem  "I  Love  You" 
(by  Florence  S.  Glines),  different  and 
heartwarming.  I  never  had  a  sister,  so 
I  made  copies  of  this  poem  for  folks  more 
fortunate  than  I.  Then,  on  Mother's 
Day,  my  sister-in-law  sent  this  poem  to 
me,  so  I  have  the  love  of  a  sister,  even 
if  I  missed  having  one.  I  hope  we  may 
see  many  new  names  in  the  Magazine 
and  many  more  fine  contributions  from 
the  old  names. 
— Agnes  Just  Reid 
Firth,  Idaho 
I  love  every  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  It  is  wonderful  reading  to 
sandwich  into  my  busy  days  of  caring  for 
our  six  young  children. 
— Jean  Longhurst 
Connell,  Washington 
Last  December  my  wife  was  given  a 
subscription  to  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. As  soon  as  she  has  finished  reading 
this  wonderful  little  Magazine,  then  I 
get  to  read  it.  When  her  subscription 
runs  out,  you  can  be  sure  that  a  renewal 
to  the  Magazine  will  be  one  of  her 
Christmas  presents.  "Sow  the  Field  With 
Roses"  (serial  by  Margery  S.  Stewart, 
concluded  in  June  1962)  was  a  heart- 
warming story,  and  we  look  forward  to 
seeing  more  of  Mrs.  Stewart's  stories. 
—Charles  L.  Collins  III 
Buena  Vista,  Colorado