[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: My McAllister]
MY FAMILY LIKES ALL KINDS OF Just So They are Vilate R. McAllister ¢= - 6 p SN'T it lucky, with peaches in many localities i in aad —" the easiest to can, too? Oh, we put up a few cherries, berries, apricots, rhubarb, and applesauce, for variety. But we Tike about as many peaches as all the rest combined. I After thirty years of canning peaches, I have it down to a system Fi irst, I check my bottles, selecting those with no nicks or irregul in the rims, and, of course, no cracks. I hunt out unrusted, unbattered screw from last year, purchase new fresh lids, there is pane, of sugar, and" puy aches. We make an aesthetic experience driving out into the country the evening f Mining and enjoying the sights of the c f' (_ Adden with golden fruits. Two bushels wi a moming's work, and we can get more if needed. We set them on the back over night, then, before my husband work, he brings them in and puts t chairs or a bench in the kitchen, so i have to lift nor stoop. I Breakfast over with and the dishes the way, I fill the sink with rich suds ar the bottles, rinsing them well, and turni upside down to drain in the dish drat on folded dish towels. I separate the out the sugar, a colander or wire bs a sauce pan that it will fit to, for the s —_— -_ — a measuring cup, a small sharp-pointed 'J / \ knife, a pie plate, and a small pan to ee eee Water for dipping the lids. I fill the ¢ \; [:: canner about a third full of water ar - - over high heat, as also the scalding Be, i] is full enough to cover the peaches 7 L/ op soon as the water in the pan begins I Kz put three or four peaches into the a CSS and immerse it into the boil bi ame aoe © - >, spencer, ) < { '3 rim of each bottle or piece of paper wes will be there to hinder the sealing, dip the lids in hot water, which softens the composition slightly, and screw them down snugly, but not tightly enough to cut the composition, with the screw bands. It may take a little shake to dissolve all the sugar. I might wish I had remembered the trick I used last year, to put the sugar into each jar, add enough hot water to dissolve it before adding the peaches. But, no matter, I prefer measuring the sugar for each jar, rather than making up a kettle of syrup, because I get a more uniform product that way. These seven bottles now go into the canner, enough hot water is added to cover the tops an inch or more, and then it is brought to a full boil. I regulate the heat so it won't boil over, but will keep up a good boil, write down the time the peaches should be cooked, depending on altitude, or set the timer. At 4,500 feet altitude, I process peaches one-half hour. The time can be shortened for lower altitudes. While this first batch is cooking, I continue to scald, peel, and prepare seven more bottles. The cold water in the sink, and the scalding water I change occasionally, but the water in the canner will only need to be added to, so there will be plenty to cover the jars well, as each new batch is put in. Usually between each batch, since the peeling takes less time than the cooking, there is a short interval, when I can walk out to the mailbox, hold a short. Telephone conversation, glance over the headlines in the paper, or take a minute to relax. When the time is up, I raise the ~ rack out of the water, sop the hot water off the tops of the bottles with a dishcloth, so that it won't soak through the hot pad with which I lift the jars out and burn me. Wiping each bottle with a hot dishcloth will remove any stick- — iness, although, if I have not filled — the jars too full, the syrup will not have expanded to the point where it has escaped into the water bath, and stickiness will not be a problem. Leaving space for the air to circulate around each bottle, the bottles are set in rows on an asbestos sheet, or thick pad of folded newspapers, out of the draft and out of the way. Popping musically as the vacuum is formed in the jars, they cool. When perfectly cold, usually next morning, I remove the screw bands to use again, and line the bottles up on _ the pantry shelves, where they smile at me in mouth-watering lusciousness. The peaches that were not quite ripe have been set aside to do tomorrow, and the overripe ones now go into a jam kettle. I use a to speed the jam making. Hot suds quickly clears up what little stickiness has been made. What a satisfying morning it has been! I am not tired, because, having everything in the right places, the work went smoothly. Besides, I have enjoyed the exhilaration of making a contribution to the future health, security, and pleasure of my peach-loving family.