[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Relief]
Relief Society Magazines for 1961 Available for Binding ETS of the twelve issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1961 are available for a limited time, at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price for the twelve issues is $2 postpaid. If it is desired to have the Magazines bound by the Deseret News Press (see advertisement on page 630 of this issue of the Magazine), the set of 1961 Magazines will be sent, if so directed, to them. Payment for the Magazines, for binding, and for postage on bound volumes should be sent with the order. A yearly index will be included in the binding. ERRATUM The name of Frances C. Yost was omitted as the author of "In a Time of Flood" in the July 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine — due to an error in the layout and heading arrangement. Apologies are extended to Mrs. Yost for this regrettable omission from her very fine article. Page 588 Jerusalem, City of Peace Christine H. Robinson Member, Adult Planning Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council through the Judean Hills, provides a soul-stirring, never-to-be-forgotten experience. As the twenty-mile long road approaches the Holy City, each bend in the rocky, rugged hills provides a short but almost breathtaking view of the city with its ancient walls, yellow limestone buildings, and tall cypress trees nestled in the tops of the mountains. Nearer Jerusalem, the road swings around one of the final bends and enters the little town of Bethany, situated on the slopes of the Mount of Olives. This was the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and a place which Jesus loved and where he so often stayed with his friends and loved ones. Beyond this quaint little village, spread over four hills, are the magnificent walls and much of the imposing Holy City of Jerusalem. As spectacular and impressive as the city is today, it must have been even more beautiful during the period of the Savior's ministry. It was at Bethphage, just a short distance up and around the hill from Bethany, that Jesus, only a few days before his crucifixion, stopped and beheld the city in all its splendor "and wept over it" (Luke 19:41). Jesus wept perhaps not only because of the beauty of the city, but also because this would be one of the last times, as a mortal being, he would see it, and he knew how great and peaceful Jerusalem might have been if only its people had accepted his teachings. As Jesus pondered the condition and fate of the city, Matthew records that he lamented, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Mt. 23:37). Jerusalem, during the Saviors ministry, was a magnificent and important city. Only a short time earlier Herod had beautified it. He had erected many new buildings and had rebuilt the temple and the walls, including the massive golden gates leading into the valley of Kedron. His Page 589 [ot journey from Jericho to Jerusalem up the steep, winding road objective had been to restore Jerusalem to the ancient glory and splendor which it had enjoyed under the reign of Solomon. Less than six miles from Jerusalem is the little town of Bethlehem. On that world-shaping day, some 2,000 years ago, Mary and Joseph came there to the home of their ancestors and there Jesus was born. On the outskirts of Bethlehem are the shepherds' fields where sheep were brought in from the surrounding grazing areas for better protection during the night. It was there (see cover) on that eventful night that shepherds, tending their flocks, received the wonderful vision announcing the Savior's birth as the scriptures record: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shown round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the City of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:8-11). TODA®, a hostile border separates the Arabs from the Jews and cuts off the main road from Jerusalem to Bethlehem. Consequently, the roundabout distance between the two cities is much greater than it was during the Savior's ministry. Then, undoubtedly, he must have walked many times the approximate six miles from Jerusalem to the city of his ancestors and of his birth. Despite its spectacular physical beauty, during the time of the Savior, Jerusalem was a cosmopolitan, wicked city. Jesus foresaw its complete destruction and predicted that the time would soon come when the beautiful temple would be torn down with not one stone remaining on top of another. Yet, it was at Jerusalem where Jesus accomplished much of his mighty work, gave many of his great teachings, and performed many of his most wonderful miracles. It was here that mothers brought to him their little children "and he took them in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them" (Mark 10:16). He said, "suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:14). In Jerusalem he healed the sick, caused the lame to walk, and made the blind to see. Here he exhibited his righteous indignation when he cast the thieves and money-changers out of the temple and proclaimed that his father's house "shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Mt. 21:13). When Jesus taught at Jerusalem, the scheming Pharisees, hoping to trap him, asked, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Mt. 22:35-39). At Jerusalem Jesus emphasized the divine importance of service to one another, saying, "Inasmuch as ye have Page 590 oe "ye _; D > Danes? Dei ey ' "yt Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson I The Old City and Wall of Jerusalem as seen today. Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson \ I Bethany, near Jerusalein, near the spot where the house of Mary, Martha and Lazarus once stood. Er r. - te: A VieW of p rt of Jeru le m t 1] n fi m tt M The irden or 4 thsem t: } Vi The Church of the tions 1 I Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Garden of Gethsemane. These old olive trees are said to be over 2,000 years old. — Mies eee Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Mount of Olives from near the site of Bethphage. done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Mt. 25:40). Despite Christ's mighty works and his great compassion for Jerusalem, the city rejected and scorned him. With trumped-up charges and on the basis of an illegal trial, he was brought by the priests and the people before Pilate and was condemned to death. Up a narrow winding street, similar to the one, today, which is called the Via Dolorosa (the Street of Sorrow), he carried his cross to Golgotha, the "Hill of the Skull," where he was crucified. Only a few short hours before, he had knelt in the Garden of Gethsemane, at the foot of the Mount of Olives near the path he had taken so many times to his beloved Bethany. In an orchard of beautiful olive trees, he had prayed mightily to his Father saying, "My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.... O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt" (Mt. 26:38, 39). HE name Jerusalem in Hebrew means "The City of Peace." Yet, probably more than any city down through the ages, Jerusalem has experienced little peace. The history of the city has been largely one of conflict, conquest, destruction, and restoration. Nation after nation has fought over it, and each new conqueror has soon been faced with the necessity of holding his conquest against the determined aggression of another. 'These repeated conquests constitute a strange and puzzling fact about Jerusalem. Although the city has always had great religious significance, it has never been an economic prize for its conquerors. Except for the times when it might have harbored religious treasures, it has had no great economic assets. The city has no mineral wealth. It is not in the center of a rich agricultural district. It controls no important trade routes nor seaport. In fact, it has only a scanty independent water supply, and to support increased population it has been necessary to bring water in through an extensive system of aqueducts. Yet, the control of Jerusalem has been a symbol, and as long as it remained in enemy hands, the inhabitants of Palestine could not feel secure. Possibly, the earliest Biblical reference to "The City of Peace" is found in Genesis in the account of Melchizedek, King of Salem, unto whom Abraham paid tithes. "Salem" means "peace," and many scholars believe this reference is to Jerusalem (Genesis 14:18). It was during David's reign that Jerusalem was conquered by the Hebrews and became the City of the Jews. Since David's time, Jerusalem has been known among the Jews as "The City of David." David made the city his capital, brought into it the ark of the covenant, and surrounded it with a new wall. It was to his son Solomon, however, that the responsibility and honor came to rebuild and beautify the city and to construct its magnificent temple on Mount Moriah, one of Jerusalem's four hills. During Solomon's time, Jerusalem was truly a "City of Peace." 'This blessing, however, was not to be long enjoyed. After Solomon's death, the Page 595 city was fought over by the divided tribes of Israel. Then followed a Jong period of strife and conquest during which time the city changed hands so many times that even history does not record the number. Probably, no place in history has been more violently fought over than this so-called "City of Peace." True to the pattern of its troubled history, Jerusalem, today, is an embattled and divided city. I'wisting like a serpent through the middle of this "Holy Shrine" is the armored border between the Jewish and the Arab sectors. His is the battle line where the bitterly fought 1948 Palestinian War was stopped by the United Nations. Here, today, fully alerted and battle-ready soldiers patrol both sides of the city, ready, at a moment's notice, to shoot if the command is given. Only at one spot on this fortified border can a civilian or tourist cross from one sector to the other. This is at the Mandlebaum Gate, a no-man's-land check point, where crossings can be made only with special permission and virtually only in one direction. Jerusalem is the "Holy City,' not only for Christians but also for Jews and Moslems. For the Jews, this is the home of David and Solomon. It is also the place, on Mount Moriah, where Abraham came on instructions from the Lord to offer his son Isaac in sacrifice. It is their capital city and the place where the ancient prophets lived, preached, and died. For the Moslems, Jerusalem is one of the most important "Holy Cities" in their religion. It is second only to Mecca and Medina and is one of the shrines where every orthodox Moslem must visit, at least once in his lifetime, if he is true to his Islamic faith. Here is the "Dome of the Rock," one of Islam's most ancient and most beautiful mosques. It is believed to have been built over the site where Mohammed ascended to heaven. For Christians, Jerusalem and the area of Palestine is the Holy Land where Jesus lived and taught. It was here that he organized his Church, restored the Holy Priesthood, and challenged his disciples to a new way of life and service with the words, "come, follow me." A familiar greeting in the Israel sector of Jerusalem, when one meets or takes leave of a friend or acquaintance, is "shalom, shalom," meaning "peace, peace." Despite this greeting, there has been little peace in Jerusalem, and there is only an uncertain, troubled peace there now. Yet, the peace which Jesus tried so valiantly to establish there and throughout the world, can be found, if one truly seeks it. However, it is not peace as the world knows it. It is the spiritual and personal "peace" that Jesus urged and taught. He said, "Peace I leave unto you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27) Even in its present and divided and embattled condition, Jerusalem is still a holy and sacred city. If people would follow the counsel of the righteous prophets who have preached and died there, and if they would accept the lessons that Jesus taught there nigh on to 2,000 years ago, Jerusalem would indeed be the "City of Peace." Page 596 Mabel Harmer HE old "stand-by" desserts — bread or rice puddings, and custards, are substantial and appetizing, without being too rich or too expensive. Given an occasional new twist, and the correct ingredients, they will appeal to the most discriminating and healthy appetite. Apple Pandowdy This is an American favorite since colonial days. 4 tart apples, sliced thin 1 c. Sifted flour 72 C. Sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder /, tsp. Cinnamon "4 tsp. Salt " tsp. Salt ¥, c. Shortening " c. Molasses Vc. Milk 1/ 6 c. Hot water Fill an oblong dish with sliced apples. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and salt and sprinkle over apples. Combine molasses and hot water. Pour over apples. Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 25 minutes. Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening. Add milk. Knead lightly. Roll dough into a rectangle about 1% inch thick. Fit dough over apple mixture. Prick top with fork. Bake at 425° F. About 25 minutes. Serve warm with thin cream. Serves 8. Caramel Custard "" ¢. Sugar 6 eggs 2 tbsp. Boiling water "4 tsp. Salt 4 c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Page 597 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Heat the dry sugar in a small pan over low heat, stirring until it melts. Add two tablespoons of boiling water and pour it slowly into the milk, which has been scalded. Beat the eggs, add salt and vanilla, and slowly pour the milk mixture on them and stir. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes in a casserole set in a pan of hot water. The custard is done when a silver knife can be drawn clean through the center. Serves 8. Gingerbread Custard 2 egg yolks 1 pint milk, scalded "% c. Sugar 1 c. Gingerbread crumbs Beat the egg yolks, add sugar and scalded milk. Pour mixture over the gingerbread crumbs which have been placed in a buttered casserole. Place the dish in a pan of hot water and bake at 350° for one hour. A meringue may be made with the egg whites by mixing 4 tbsp. Sugar, % tsp. Vanilla and spreading it over the custard for the last 15 minutes of baking. Serves 5. Lemon Rice With Fruit Sauce "" Ib. Prunes 1 tbsp. Cornstarch Y c. Seedless raisins % c. Sliced almonds 1% c. Water 1 c. Quick cooking rice 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Each of butter, sugar, and "2 ¢. Brown sugar grated lemon rind Cut up prunes and simmer with raisins and water for 5 minutes. Add the lemon juice and the combined sugar and cornstarch. Cook 5 minutes. Add almonds. Cook the rice with butter according to directions on the package. Fold in sugar and lemon rind. Pour fruit sauce over warm rice. Serves 4-6. Cinnamon Rice Snow "2 ¢. Quick rice 2 c. Shredded raw apples " tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Lemon juice "2 ¢. Ted cinnamon candies 1 Cc. Whipping cream Cook rice with salt and butter. Add cinnamon candies. Cover and let stand for 10 minutes to melt candies. Mix and chill. Combine apples, sugar, and lemon juice and fold into rice. Add whipped cream. Chill. Serves 6. Toasty Prune Betty 1% c. Cooked prunes "% c. Sugar 4 c. Toasted bread cubes "2 tsp. Salt 1% c. Chopped apples "A tsp. Cinnamon 1 ¢. Prune liquid 2 tbsp. Butter *% c. Water Cut prunes into medium slices. Toast bread cubes in 450° oven until lightly browned. Place half of toasted bread cubes in buttered casserole. Add prunes in a layer, then apples, then remaining bread cubes. Combine liquids, sugar, salt, spice, and butter, and boil 2 or 3 minutes. Pour over bread cubes. Bake covered at 375° for one hour. Serves 6. FAMILY DESSERTS 599 _Apple Cake With Vanilla Sauce For cake: For sauce: % Ib. Butter 4 egg yolks 3 ¢. Stale sponge cake crumbs 4 tbsp. Sugar or cracker crumbs 2 c. Heavy cream 2% c. Sweetened applesauce 2% tsp. Vanilla 2 tsp. Cinnamon Melt butter in a skillet. Add crumbs and cook over medium heat five minutes, stirring frequently. Butter an 8-inch square baking dish. Place layer of crumbs on bottom and add alternate layers of applesauce, cinnamon and crumbs. Bake in a 350° oven for thirty minutes. Let cool, then turn out of pan carefully. For the sauce, beat the egg yolks in the top of a double boiler. Add the sugar and beat. Scald 1% cups of the cream and add to yolks, beating constantly. Place over hot water and cook until thick, stirring. Remove from hot water, add vanilla and cool for one hour. Whip the remaining cream and fold into the sauce. Cut the cake in squares and serve with sauce. Serves 8-10. Raspberry Bread Pudding ' c. Butter 3 c. Bread crumbs % c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 3 cBes = beaten 3 tbsp. Raspberry jam 2 tbsp. Flour Cream the butter and sugar and add the well-beaten eggs. Add the flour, bread crumbs, salt, and jam. Mix well and pour into a buttered mold. Place in a large pan containing boiling water to a depth of 1% inches. Cover the pan and steam in a double boiler in a 275° oven for three hours. Serves 6. Coconut and Date Bread Pudding 3 c. Stale bread crumbs "" C. Sugar " c. Shredded coconut 2 c. Milk 24 c. Dates "2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla Put the stale bread crumbs, coconut, and dates in a buttered casserole. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, then the milk, salt, and vanilla. Pour this over the bread mixture and place in oven at 350° for 1% hours. Serve with cream. Serves 6. Plain Bread Pudding 1 quart milk % tsp. Salt 2 c. Stale bread cubes 1 tsp. Vanilla 3 eggs 3 tbsp. Butter "2 ©. Sugar Scald the milk and pour it over the bread cubes. Let stand 10 minutes. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, and vanilla. Put into buttered baking dish and add the milk and bread cubes. Add melted butter and stir. Place the dish in a pan of hot water. Bake at 350° for 1% hours. Serves 6. Do you have a baby?