[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: My | Author: Luce]
[My Shadow Celia Larsen Luce]

He talked with mother a while and she finally told him he could have one baby through the day time if he would bring it back nights, so the bargain was made and the Prophet smiled with gratitude. "The twins were so much alike that they could be scarcely told apart, but, of course, mother knew and their dispositions were not alike —one was a quick little thing and the other was mild. My mother would set them in the double cradle, made high at each end and low in the middle, and give each some playthings, and the quick one would take all the things away from the mild one. 'They were dressed exactly alike. "One morning when the Prophet — came for the baby, mother reached him the other baby. He took it and looked at it, kissed it and handed it back and said, 'Not my little Mary,' so mother reached him little Mary. He had always taken the little mild one—her name was Mary and the other one was Sarah. "The Prophet would always bring the baby up himself at night. One night he did not come as usual and mother went down and found the baby was crying. Brother Joseph was sitting by the fire trotting it. He had it wrapped up in a little silk quilt, preparatory to starting out with it. When mother went in it reached its hands to her. When she took it the baby soon was still. When mother started back the Prophet took the baby from her and walked up home with her. When Aunt Emma's health returned, our baby came home to stay." *The Prophet's son Don Carlos was born June 13, 1840, and died in August 1841. Company Best Lael Jensen Littke 4 OW don't forget," Molly said, as she cleared the breakfast dishes from the table, "the hamburger is thawing on the third shelf of the refrigerator, and there's fruit for a nice salad. You can fix the hamburger any way you want, and then cook some rice or something." Sixteen-year-old Lois grinned. "Better make it potatoes, Mother," She said. "Remember what happened last time I cooked rice? I thought a cup of it uncooked looked like nothing at all, so I cooked the whole package." "A person isn't likely to forget a kitchen full of cooked rice," laughed Molly. "All right, make it potatoes.' She glanced at the clock on the kitchen wall. "If I hurry, I'll have time to do the breakfast dishes before I go." "Tll do them," said Lois. "You run along. Grandma Feeney will be expecting you. I think she likes to have you take care of her better than anyone else, and I don't blame her." "Flatterer," said Molly. "Now, are you sure you can manage dinner and everything by yourself? You can fix you and Ted and the twins a little snack when you get home from school, so you can all last until dinnertime. Daddy will be home about six, and I should be here about six-thirty." "Don't worry, Mother, I'll take care of everything." Lois turned the hot water on the dishes and then cleared her throat. "Mother," she said in her I-doubt-if-yow'll-approvebut-there's-no-harm-in-trying — voice, "may I use the best china and silver and crystal and everything?" "Whatever for?" asked Molly. "What's the occasion?" Lois shrugged. "No occasion. I just think it would be a lot more fun to get dinner, if I could use the pretty things." She held up one of the breakfast plates. "This everyday stuff is so chipped and everything." "It's just fine for the family. You know the china is our company best." "But we never use it. When Uncle Dave and Aunt Bea were here last month, we used our everyday stuff." "They didn't mind," laughed Molly. "They're just family." 'And when Kathy came over to spend the night with me, we didn't use it either. She was company. Whom are we expecting to come to use it, the President of the United States?" "Our everyday dishes are just fine,' said Molly. "I worked so hard to get that china, piece by piece, and I don't want the twins breaking it." "Aw, Mom," said Lois, "it would be so well, kind of romantic to Page 559 560 use the best things. It would make the hamburger taste like filet mignon." MOLLY grinned at her daughter. "My stars, a person needs a degree in psychology to understand sixteen-year-olds nowadays. Now you do as I say." She picked up her purse and the crocheting she was taking with her. "I've really got to rush. Sister Fletcher has been there with Grandma Feeney all night and I'm sure she's anxious to leave. Goodbye now." She kissed the gitl's cheek and hurried out of the house. I Walking toward Grandma Feeney's house, she smiled fondly at the romantic notions of a sixteen-yearold. The best china for hamburgers, indeed. There was no place for chipped dishes and old tarnished silverware in the bright dreams of a young girl. Lois didn't know yet what it was like to work hard to get nice things, or she would know why Molly was reluctant to use the company best china. Molly remembered only too well the difficult days of low income and high expenses when she and David were first married. Slowly, over the years, one piece at a time, she had bought the lovely dinnerware, the sterling silver, and the crystal she was so proud of today. It had seemed so important to have something really nice. She supposed that Lois thought she was as old and crotchety as Grandma Feeney, but she was a good girl. And, speaking of Grandma Feeney, thought Molly, she'd better speed up alittle bit. Sister Fletcher would be more than ready to leave after a night with the old lady. Grandma RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Feeney wasn't exactly the smiling, co-operative patient envisioned in their home nursing demonstrations last year. 'To be downright truthful, she was a real trial sometimes, or so most of the sisters thought. Molly was of the opinion that she herself would probably act the same way in the same circumstances. Here Grandma Feeney was, at eighty-two, lying in bed after a serious illness, waiting to be moved to a nursing home, and depending on the Relief Society sisters to care for her since she had no family left. Her husband had passed away eleven years before, and "Grandma" was only an honorary title, since her only child, a daughter, had died of scarlet fever when she was seventeen. I don't blame her a bit for acting as she does, Molly said to herself. S she expected, Grandma Feeney was fretting when she arrived. "A body works day and night for eighty years," she was telling Sister Fletcher, probably for the twentieth time that moring, "and _ then kerblam!