[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Fiction | Title: Out Wilderness]
Lael  Jensen  Littke  559 
Out    of    the    Wilderness    —    Chapter    2    
 Shirley    Thulin  566 
Hand  to  the  Plow  —  Part  IV  —  Dedication    Ilene   H.   Kingsbury  580 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
From  Near  and  Far  
  554 
Sixty  Years  Ago   
  584 
Woman's  Sphere   Ramona  W.    Cannon  585 
Editorial:  In  the  Family  There  Is  Strength  
 Vesta  P.  Crawford  586 
Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Annual  General   Relief  Society  Conference      588 
Relief  Society  Magazines  for    1961   Available   for  Binding      588 
Notes  From  the  Field:  Relief  Society  Activities  
 Hulda   Parker  603 
Birthday   Congratulations    
  632 
FEATURES  FOR  THE  HOME 
Vacation  By  the  Day  
 Betty  G.   Spencer  565 
My  Shadow  
 Celia  Larsen   Luce  573 
My  Family  Likes  All  Kinds  of  Fruit  —  Just  So  They  Are  Peaches    Vilate  R.  McAllister  574 
"Thou   Shalt   Not   Be   Proud"    
 Martha   Tucker   Fugate  577 
Family  Desserts  
 Mabel   Harmer  597 
Make   a    Drip-Dry   Apron    
 Janet    W.    Breeze  600 
Clara  Partridge  Stevens  —  Artist  With  Needle  and  Brush     602 
LESSONS  FOR  NOVEMBER 
Theology  —  "Engaged  in  a  Good  Cause"    Roy  W.   Doxey  610 
Visiting  Teacher  Messages  —  "He  Who  Doeth  the  Works  of  Righteousness   .    .    ." 
  Christine     H.     Robinson  615 
Work  Meeting  —  The  Latter-day  Saint  Home  Is  Well  Organized  —  Part  II 
  Virginia    F.    Cutler  617 
Literature  —  Henry  David  Thoreau  —  Individualist    Briant  S.   Jacobs  619 
Social  Science  —  Divine  Law  and  Human  Welfare    Ariel  S.  Ballif  625 
POETRY 
The  Little  Things  —  Frontispiece  
 Dorothy   J.   Roberts  553 
Hour  of  Dusk,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  564;  Hymns  of  Praise,  by  Ouida  Johns  Pedersen,  572; 
A  Summarization  of  the  Brief  Life  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  by  Hazel  Owen,  583;  Supplication,  by 
Catherine   B.    Bowles,    624;    On   Reaching   Shadows,   by   Mabel    Jones   Gabbott,    631. 
Published  monthly  by  THE    GENERAL    BOARD    OF   RELIEF    SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1962  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association 
Editorial  and  Business  OlTices :  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511; 
Subscriptions  246;  Ekiitorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
20c  a  copy  ;  payable  in  advance.  The  Ma£:azine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back 
"]^™^bers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of 
address  at  once,  giving  old  and   new   address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited   manuscripts. 
Page  555 

she  Knew 
the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith 
MARGARET  McINTIRE   BURGESS 
Part  V- Margaret  Mclntire  Burgess 
Preston  Nibley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
IN  The  Rdiei  Society  Magazine, 
for  January  1918,  there  is  a  brief 
sketch  of  the  hfe  of  Mrs.  Margaret 
Mclntire  Burgess,  of  St.  George, 
Utah,  written  by  herself.  In  this 
sketch  she  relates  that  she  was  born 
in  the  State  of  Pennsylvania  in  1837, 
and  that,  about  the  time  of  her 
birth,  her  parents  were  converted  to 
the  Mormon  religion  through  the 
efforts  of  a  young  missionary  named 
Erastus  Snow.  Then,  in  the  year 
1840,  the  father  sold  the  family 
possessions  in  Pennsylvania,  and 
with  his  wife  and  three  children, 
moved  to  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Church. 
''When  we  arrived  in  Nauvoo," 
Margaret  wrote,  ''our  things  were 
stored  in  a  large  frame  building,  un- 
finished, owned  by  a  gentleman  by 
the  name  of  George  Telling,  being 
on  the  corner  of  Main  and  Parley 
streets.  Shortly  afterwards  my  father 
bought  the  building  and  had  it 
finished  up  comfortably,  and  we 
lived  there  until  the  general  expul- 
sion of  the  Saints  to  the  West." 
It  was  while  the  family  resided 
in  Nauvoo,  during  the  childhood 
of  Mrs.  Burgess,  that  the  following 
interesting  events  took  place,  which 
she  relates  as  follows: 
"We  were  close  neighbors  to  the 
Prophet's  family,  and  very  intimate, 
too.  The  Prophet  was  often  in  our 
home  for  short  visits.  One  morning 
he  came  in  and  noticed  I  had  a  piece 
of  flannel  around  my  throat.  He 
inquired  if  my  throat  was  sore. 
Mother  told  him  it  was,  and  she 
was  afraid  it  was  the  mumps.  He 
called  me  to  him  and  took  me  upon 
his  lap,   then  took   the  flannel  off 
*The  portrait  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  reproduced  on  the  opposite  page  was 
painted  by  Alvin  Gittins.  The  original  painting  hangs  in  the  board  room  of  the  Church 
Office  Building  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Page  556 

and  asked  mother  for  the  oil.  He 
anointed  my  throat  with  the  oil  and 
then  administered  to  me.  I  knew 
I  was  well,  as  I  got  down  from  his 
lap  after  which  I  felt  no  more  sore 
throat— another  proof  of  his  tender 
loving  heart. 
"One  morning  as  we  were  on  our 
way  to  school,  my  brother  and  I 
were  forced  to  walk  in  some  very 
muddy  places  as  it  had  rained  the 
previous  night.  The  school  was  down 
near  the  river  and  there  was  one  very 
bad  place  we  had  to  go  through 
where  we  got  stuck  fast,  and  I 
began  to  cry,  as  did  my  little  brother. 
I  thought  I  would  surely  never  get 
out,  but  on  looking  up,  we  saw  the 
Prophet  coming  right  for  us.  The 
crying  soon  ceased.  He  carried  me 
out  first  and  then  my  brother.  He 
took  his  handkerchief  out  of  his 
pocket,  wiped  the  tears  from  our 
eyes  and  cleaned  the  mud  off  our 
shoes,  all  the  time  speaking  comfort- 
ing words  to  us,  sending  us  on  our 
way  rejoicing,  at  the  same  time 
pointing  out  a  safer  way  to  get  to 
the  school  house.  Oh,  our  beloved 
Prophet,  how  deep  were  his  sym- 
pathies and  how  his  kind  heart 
yearned  to  do  good. 
"Now  let  me  tell  you  of  another 
incident  before  I  stop.  My  mother 
had  twin  baby  girls,  and  Aunt 
Emma,  as  we  called  her  (the  Proph- 
et's wife)  had  been  confined  and  her 
baby  had  died.*  Soon  after  the 
death  the  Prophet  came  in  one 
morning  and  said,  'Sister  Mclntire, 
I  have  come  to  borrow  one  of  your 
babies,'  and  mother  exclaimed, 
'Why,  Brother  Joseph,  what  do  you 
want  with  one  of  my  babies?'  'Well/ 
he  replied,  'I  want  one  of  them  for 
my  wife  to  comfort  her  only  for  a 
time.'  He  talked  with  mother  a 
while  and  she  finally  told  him  he 
could  have  one  baby  through  the  day 
time  if  he  would  bring  it  back  nights, 
so  the  bargain  was  made  and  the 
Prophet  smiled  with  gratitude. 
"The  twins  were  so  much  alike 
that  they  could  be  scarcely  told 
apart,  but,  of  course,  mother  knew 
and  their  dispositions  were  not  alike
