Books for the Family
By Lais V. Hales.
THE CHARM OF A WELL-MANNERED HOME
By Helen Ekin Starrett.
Most young couples start with a dream of an ideal home. But they fail to accept the conditions necessary to the realization of this ideal, such as infinite patience, constant love, confidence, devotion, unselfishness, willingness to spend and be spent in the service of each other. "Nowhere are beautiful manners so beautiful as in the home"; and no higher aim can be set before any young couple than the building of an ideal home and family.
The girls of today are not well prepared for the responsibilities of wifehood. In them is a lack of physical and mental stamina, a lack of spirit of steady industry, of definite aim, of responsibility. The fault lies mainly with the mothers and the times in which these girls live. In most homes there is overpressure on the mother, which prevents her from giving the right amount of time to training her daughters. Again, too many things are pressed upon the attention of the young girls?too many studies, too many diversions, too much going about, too much of seeing people. To make up for these serious deficiencies, the young wife of today must, above all things, "be guided by a high sense of duty, and by a sincere, unselfish determination to do her share in the work of building a home."
Housekeeping and homekeeping are two very different things. There are times when the mother may make housekeeping secondary but homemaking, never. To proportion the two properly will require patience and wisdom.
Some of the things that will help are early rising, intelligent preparation of meals, an active superintendence of the duties of the home "which most of all dignify young wifehood." She must early realize that the cares of the home, in all their multiplicity and wearisomeness of detail, will devolve chiefly upon her. She must have the patience to avoid bickerings and quarrels, which utterly destroy the dignity of the home.
The mother is the heart of the home. The atmosphere of the home is determined largely by the mother. She it is who will decide upon the character of the friends who shall visit the home. The spiritual plane upon which she lives will regulate her influence and measure her power in moulding the character of her
children. She must constantly keep in mind that the most effective training for children is the training of example. She must be happy, kind, patient, humble, unselfish, if she wants her children to possess these virtues. She must remember and be strengthened by the thought that the confining home duties and cares occupy only a passing period of her life. She must know that she is practicing an art?"incomparably the highest of all arts,?the moulding of human character. A kingdom in the hearts of her children, it is worth any mother's toil and care and weariness to win."
"Even this shall pass away," is a comforting, useful household maxim. The young mother should be as happy as she can in the busy care-crowded days, remembering that all annoyances will pass away. She would miss one of her troublesome little noise-makers from among the flock?
"The mother in the sunshine sits Besides the cottage wall; And softly, while she knits and knits, The gathering tears down fall; The little hindering thing is gone, And undisturbed she may knit on."
She must exercise wisdom in dividing her time sanely among the unending demands of home life. The higher must never be sacrificed to the lower. A good mother must realize the relative importance of things. Her first duty is to be cheerful, healthy, patient, and loving; and all work that tends to prevent her from fulfilling this duty is comparatively unimportant, being better left undone.
Scolding, in its effect on family life, is like "throwing sand into a delicate machine; it causes all parts to grate upon each other; it does no good, but only evil and that continually." To choose the happy medium and golden mean in everything should be the study of every sensible young wife and mother. The comfort dispenser in the home is usually a woman. Comfort and repose go hand in hand. The desire to adorn and beautify the home is one of the highest and best instincts of the human heart. Order, neatness, system, tidiness, are the first elements of household decoration. Home is, first of all, for use and comfort. A window is to look out of, and a chair to sit in; and anything that gives other than an impression of permanence, consistent with the use for which it is intended and of having an "excuse for being," is poor taste. In this business of establishing a "well-mannered home," happy is that wife and mother who finds a friend and companion in her mother or mother-in-law. Half the cares and troubles of married life and of rearing a family may be lifted by suchj kindly, loving, and sympathizing companionship as the latter may  give. Where she shines supreme is in the care of little children. No house that has a baby in it is complete without a grandma; and happy beyond worlds is that baby, and happy is that young mother, who possesses one. She is the one member of the family who can do more to make household affairs run smoothly than any other, for she knows all the ins and outs of housekeeping and homemaking." These and many other helpful and sincerely beautiful thoughts are contained in Helen Ekin Starrett's delightful little book, "The Charm Of a Well-Mannered Home." Mrs. Starrett lived the mother-life that she expounds in this book; her book, therefore, is sincere, and free from any didactic quality. It contains much of the "inspiring influence" of its author, whose whole life was one of love and unselfishness. It is distinctly a gentle book but its effect is powerful and stimulating. For every member of the family there is real help in this little volume. Although it is addressed primarily to the mother, it discusses problems that concern the father and the children. One critic has said it is a book "for both men and women to read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest." Prosperity: An Answer to Hope As a topic