The Place of Woman in the Farm Home By Dr. Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young University. At various times a feeling has prevailed that agricultural work is not dignified. This feeling has changed, or is changing. During the last ten years social and economic leaders, have sensed the need of a more sympathetic regard for the farm; and in order to counteract the migration to the city which robs the country of much of its leadership they have used their energies to create a better attitude toward country life. They are doing everything in their power to get farmers to organize. They aim to bring about conditions which will make the country so attractive that it will take its due place in civilization. Country roads are being improved. Ease of communication is aiding advertisers to offer the installment buying system thus putting their goods into rural homes. Changed conditions are influencing the thinking in the farm home. Extension work through colleges, country high schools, country agents, farmer's bulletins, and leadership-week activities are doing their part. Rural Ideas are changing all. This is of vital interest, for it has its influence on each member of the farm family, particularly on the farm' woman. The Mother Overlooked In the rural home the mother has been overlooked. Her importance has not been appreciated. She it is to whom one must look for leadership in rural life. She is the spiritual force in the home, the guardian of her children. Her presence, her hands, her smile, her fingers, have always done their part in stimulating the men who have ruled the world. She is always home while the workers are in the field. If the father is sick, she manages the farm. If he becomes disappointed she gives him courage. She is the one who knows the child mind before the child can talk. She interprets one child to another and composes their conflicts.  She interprets the father to each child. She is the very foundation of the home. Without her the nation would dwindle into decayAnd it is to the mother of the farm home that the nation must return if American civilization is to continue. Why Help The Farm Mother? Because of her importance in life, woman must be given more consideration. It may be that man has done his part; yet our rural surveys of the standard of living and conditions in the home reveal the fact that man has been negligent. He has built the house and then assumed that his home job was completed. The four walls of shelter have been provided, but what else? Has it ever been considered that those four walls constitute the woman's workshop? It is in this workshop that ideals develop and it is here that inspiration for the accomplishment of those ideals is created. But long hours of lifting, carrying, cleaning, labor with utensils, with clothing, etc., have fatigued her until it has stamped its impress upon her countenance. As one great writer has stated, "Fatigue has poisoned her nervous system, has weakened her capacities and energies for which she is noted and needed, and has made many a promising young maiden decide that such is the fate of all who accept rural life." Farm Life and Insanity Statistics indicate that there is a lot of insanity in the world and that, with the exception of the alcohol addict, a vast number of the insane are recruited from rural homes. It is estimated that 80 per cent of the inmates of a Georgia institution are wives and daughters of farmers. The rural socioligists attempt to explain this condition as probably due to drudgery and lack of social life. This explanation may be right or wrong, yet the mother is often made a beast of burden because of the great labor she must perform in the home where conveniences have not been considered. Unthinkingly on her part or on the part of the household, she takes the burden of the sacrifices in the home. When the woman on the farm wears out her vitality, the well of inspiration is dry. The spirit life in the farm home is dead. Can we do something for her? What Can We Do For Farm Homes? The story is told. Of one woman who said that she would like to live on the farm, but that her husband must make the home in which she lived a fit place for living. It was agreed that this should be done. The farm home was made over, the house rearranged with the same care that is given in planning barns for high grade livestock. Windows were lengthened to admit more THE PLACE OF WOMAN IN THE FARM HOME 83 light,. A porch was added, cement walks were laid from the front porch. She insisted on and secured a side porch and drive-way to the barn. Windows were arranged for a good view of the outside world, the kitchen was painted white, water faucets were placed in the kitchen, cupboards were built in, gas lights were installed, a bath tub found its place, a well lighted laundry was built in the basement, a sink installed in the laundry, and sewer pipes were connected with a cesspool. A windmill was erected; automatically it pumped air and water for a large pressure tank in the basement. A gasoline engine was installed for light and heat. This sounds like a tremendous lot of luxurious things, but the cost, the windmill excepted, was less than $500. Who will deny that the changes were not worth more to the comfort of the home than would be a used Ford? That farmstead was changed over from one on which a living was to be made to one which provided for nearly all the privileges that can be secured in the much lauded town home. Can Farms Afford The Above Expenses? All farmers in our country cannot do just what is above indicated but they certainly can spare a few dollars for at least the fundamentals of decent working conditions for the women. There are many leisure days in the twelve months of the year. During these periods much that would relieve the burden of the housewife could be done by the husband. This question is serious. Consider the tendencies in city homes. The nation seems to be growing city minded, because city life provides pleasant home conditions. But in the city there are less than two children to the home. In such homes the mother loses both the home instinct and the family instinct. Rural leaders insist that the nation must return to the mother of the farm home. The farm woman lives longer than the city woman, her average life being five years more. She is less frequently found in the divorce court. The apartment houses and family hotels destroy domesticity and weaken home ties. The entertainment is much more conventionalized and superficial. The Nation In Danger How different in the farm home and with farm woman. If one but makes observations he will be led to the conclusion that as the nation continues its city-mindedness so will it arrest the completion of its destiny. The mother of the farm home is the bulwark of the nation and should be treated as such. Rural life needs attention. The accusation is made that the best blood is leaving the country and moving to the city. The condition is becoming alarming. Latter-day Saints pride themselves  on their wonderful home life. Great claims are made, yet it will prove profitable if the father and mother in our rural homes will take stock of a very important and delicate situation?the conditions of the farm home and the attitude toward the mother of the farm home. Fathers should co-operate with mothers and make the home a better place in which to live. Some of the supposed luxuries of life must be placed in the home and the standards of living improved. An attempt at city conveniences must be made. Pictures, carpets, wall paper, running water, cupboards, closets, sinks, and many things of convenience must be there. Magazines other than those at fifty cents a year are needed. Good Housekeeping, Literary Digest, Pictorial Review, Geographic Magazine, Popular Science Monthly, as well as the religious magazines of the Church will do much to make life more pleasurable and profitable. Consider The Farm Woman The suggestion may be made that it takes money to do these things. The suggestion is a correct one, but some things can be done that will cost but little. Then again are we really doing our best to budget our time and money? Are we 100 per cent efficient in the way we manage? Do we give five per cent of our actual thinking to the problems of the home? Or do we drift along the lines of least resistance? The woman in the farm home is entitled to more attention. The mental and spiritual possibilities of our children must not be stultified by low hom? standards. Let us put energy to the questions of home life as well as to the care of animals and barns; then our mothers will be most appreciative, our children will grow up with kind feelings towards rural life, and rural America will furnish what she is expected to furnish?the ideal American citizenship. FORGOTTEN NOBILITY The deizens of pen and fold With broken panes and shingles Are snugly walled against the cold leaking In structures reared on studied lines And blackened walls and knotty floors Laid down by well-conceived designs. They dwell in cosy comfort there, Behind the battered, sagging doors. With just enough of light and air What is good farming for, anyway? And exercise and balanced ration. To furnish children with the wealth Due heed is given each sensation; Of happiness in sparkling health; For farmers prize their blooded stock, To pour the molten mind of youth Aristocrats of herd and flock. In forms of beauty, toil, and truth; To give that mind a rugged form, That's well enough; but I object To shield it from the warping storm When some men wilfully neglect Of lies and disillusionment; The true aristocrats of earth: To keep unstemmed and yet unspent Their daughters, sons, and wives, In every breast a tide of love? whose worth Such is the farm's bright treasureThey risk in houses warped and trove! Creaking ?Carlton Culmsee.