[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: THE COMING OF THE SAVIOR. | Author: Unknown]

THE COMING OF THE SAVIOR.
	Acts 1st chap. 11 ver. "Ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into Heaven? this
same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye
have seen him go into heaven."
	The Latter-day Saints are the only people 
that are looking for the Savior to come as
Peter said He would, and the only ones that 
will be prepared. Joseph Smith received a
revelation to gather out from the world the
honest at heart, that would receive the Gos-
pel of Christ, I'll quote from the Book of
Covenants, Appendix Section 133, 4th ver.
commencing at, "wherefore prepare ye, pre-
pare ye, O my people; sanctity yourselves;
gather ye together, O ye people of my church,
upon the land of Zion."
	5th verse. "Go ye out from Babylon. Be
ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord." 
	8th verse. "Send forth the Elders of my
church unto the nations which are afar off;
unto the islands of the sea;—firstly upon the
Gentiles, and then upon the Jews."
	The Gentiles have been almost thoroughly
warned, and the Jews will be.	
	10th verse. "Yea, let the cry go forth
among all people: Awake and arise, and go
forth to meet the bridegroom, behold and lo
the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
him. Prepare yourself for the great day of 
the Lord."
	Watch, therefore,  for ye know neither the
day nor the hour.
	Let them therefore, who are among the 
Gentiles, flee unto Zion.
	And let them who be of Judah flee unto
Jerusalem."
	Here the Latter-day Saints have the word of
the Lord, and know just what to do. First
the elders preached the gospel to them, then
the gathering, so that they could be prepared
to go in to the marriage supper of the Great
Bridegroom. "And when this Gospel of the
kingdom is preached, the end shall come."
	The Holy word speaks of the signs that will
ake place just before His coming. “The

[Column 2]
waters would go beyond their bounds, there
would be earthquakes, fire, and vapors of
smoke, men's hearts failing them for fear of
the things that would take place on the
earth."
	Some would say the Lord delayeth His
coming, but Malachi says: "He will suddenly 
come to His temple." Then a temple must be
built for Him to come to. What people have
built a temple but the Latter-day Saints? and
who are looking for His coming?
	In the last chapter of Revelations it is re-
peated twice: "And behold, I come quickly,
and my reward is with me to give every man
according as his work shall be." This same
Jesus that Peter saw go up into Heaven will
come again to reign on the earth a thousand
years, of which the Sabbath is typical, being
the end of the six thousand years of labor and
toil, the seventh thousand year comes in as a
day of rest, and there shall be nothing to hurt
or destroy in all my holy mountain saith the
Lord. And He will come as a thief in the
night, they will be eating and drinking marry-
ing, etc., as in the days of Noah, until the
flood came and took them all away. We the
Latter-day Saints have gathered out from the
world to prepare ourselves for the coming of
our Redeemer, we ought to be the most faithful
of any people on the earth, keeping ourselves
unspotted from the sins of the world, from all
its allurements, and whether we live or die,
we shall be ready to meet our Lord, as Paul
says the dead in Christ shall rise first, and ever
be with the Lord.
	"Now we beseech you brethren, by the com-
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gath-
ering together unto Him, that ye be not soon
shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit,
nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as the
day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive
you by any means; for that day shall not come.
except there come a falling away first, and
that man of sin revealed, the son of perdition."
Thessalonians II, 2nd chapter. 
	This we know to be true, as there never was
a time, when there was such a commotion by
sin and unbelief, because they received not the
love of the truth, that they might be saved, 
so strong delusion was sent to them that they
should believe a lie, who believed not the
truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.


