[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: HOSPITALITY. | Author: Unknown]

			HOSPITALITY.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	My dear sisters and friends here assem-
bled: I am happy to be present with you
today, and the subject I have to discuss is
one I am very fond of and much interested
in, for it is broad and far reaching. Mrs.
Julia McPair Wright classes hospitality as
“the queen of social virtues.”
	Order and neatness do not necessarily

[Column 2]
come under the title of hospitality; yet, a
home would certainly not be a very invit-
ing place for entertainment without these
two vital conditions in it. System and
cleanliness are indispensable but not wealth
or great display. The dear little house-
keeper—home-maker in her dainty print
dress with white collar, and nicely arranged
hair, looks much better to her family and
guests than one arrayed in silks or satin
and an elaborate headdress worn at an im-
proper time.
	The good breeding and right tact of a 
woman is always exhibited in her own home
more plainly than anywhere else, as also
the snob or parvenu. Education and cul-
ture are gained by environment, travel and
study, but purity, gentleness, modesty and
refinement of character are often ours by
right of inheritance, and fortunate are the
children who have been blessed with fathers
and mothers of God’s noble men and wo-
men, who were just, virtuous, honorable,
high souled people. For they haye given
and made the strength the intellectual
power as well as the religious and moral
development of our country, and who lend
to a nation the right kind, the safe and true
standard of hospitality.
	Our Americans since Colonial days and
their first President, George Washington was
host down to the most obscure citizen have
been noted for their cordiality to foreigners,
as well as their own subjects. The generals
of the Revolution, were renowned for their
great hospitality from the beginning to the
close of the seven years war.
	One instance that of Francis Marion
the great South Carolinian, while leading
his brave, but half starved and scantily
clothed army through the swamps and
mountain passes of the south was visited by
a young British officer to whom he gave the
best entertainment his larder afforded, al-
though it was only roasted potatoes served
on pine bark plates, and cold water in rusty
tin cups. History tells us this same young
English officer gave up his commission on
reaching the British headquarters and on
meeting Lord General Howe, saying to him,
“We can never conquer an army of soldiers
and men with commanders like General
Francis Marion!
	Our ambassadors of the diplomatic corps,
since the days of Benjamin Franklin, John
Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and
John Adams have been liberal entertainers
abroad, as well as at home. And no coun-
try has given the world more courtly, more
beautiful types of characters as hostesses, of
cultured womanliness than Martha Custis
Washington, and the uncrowned queens of
America. Abigail Adams and Dolly Madi-
son, and in our own day Julia Dent Grant 
and Frances Folsom Cleveland.
	True hospitality is inborn, it comes spon-
taneous, and is prompted by a desire to
please, comfort and give happiness to oth-
ers.
	Our conference visitors should always re-
ceive kind, courteous hospitality from us,
and on the other hand, be considerate in our
homes and endeavor to conform to the rules
therein. For sisters, we have many obliga-

[Column 3]
tions, many domestic conditions to meet
that you in your country homes know not 
of. Our lives are not one sided; we have 
many phases in them. It is not only the
many conferences, but missionaries, going
to and from their various fields of labor,
temple workers, students attending state 
and Church schools, friends, yes, and
strangers going into and coming from the
city hospitals, persons attending conven-
tions of agriculture, stock raising, mining
and manufacturing, with the tourists who
frequent our city. Educational and legis-
lative assemblies in connection with re-
ligious, historical, patriotic, social and po-
litical meetings to attend, all of which
directly or indirectly draw on the time,
brain power and helpfulness of the city
mothers, more or less.
	Our intercourse with our sisters from every
direction, should be harmonious, there
should be a perfect understanding as to
business methods, and religious principles.
Love, respect and right hospitality will
cement and make stronger our influence.
	We as Relief Society workers can fully
testify to the correctness of this. Now
there are different grades of hospitality, but
the one we most admire is that which ema-
nates from genuine goodness of heart. This
we find when traveling from northern Cana-
da to southern Me[-]ico, from western Ore-
gon through Idaho, Utah, Wyoming and
Colorado, in fact in every place where a
branch of our Relief Society is found, and
where we missionaries visit. This often en-
tails much sacrifice and privation on the
part of our hostess, our entertainers; yet
they are gracious and courteous to us, they
have and are the good Samaritans in very
deed! for like the pioneer women in all
countries they are ready to divide or even
give the whole to the “stranger within their
gates.”
	Hospitality goes hand in hand with chari-
ty, ’tis ever thoughtful of the needs and de-
sires of others. ’Tis a proverbial saying
that the Relief Society in each city is the
emporium of hospitable consideration.
	Our homes are the first gardens in which
to cultivate this beautiful flower, for its
branches will run over its walls. ’Tis the
wives, mothers and daughters who give the
air of cultnre, beauty and suitability to the
home, fathers or brothers usually provide
the surroundings, the habitation, but they
can never give the interior what we find it,
without the intuition of woman’s gentler
hand.
	’Tis not in costly dwelling or magnificent
mansion, neither at the table where great
display of variety and luxury abound, where
the most perfect hospitality is to be found;
instead as we missionaries can tell you,
often in remote towns and small villages,
where the sweet-faced Relief sisters have
gathered to meet us, either in their Presi-
dent’s or some one of the modest homes, we
have found a hearty welcome, a generous
hospitality far surpassing any ostentatious
reception given by wealth or magnificence.
We knew we felt their true womanhood, their 
sincerity and that Christ-like spirit that
God’s influence in their homes insures.


[Column 1]
	Sisters, our officers and the General Board
do appreciate your labors, your indefatigable
work, your generous treatment to us in all
the stakes of Zion, yes, throughout the world!
	Our work for others is what develops
character, ennobles life, strengthens man
and womanhood, cultivates friendship,
unites families and makes good citizens.
	There are rights which belong to guests in
the home also host and hostess and hospi-
tality considers and respects these. In a
well ordered home and when ’tis possible,
there are provisions made for a guest cham-
ber, it should be supplied with the necessary
furniture and furnishings but not the private
necessities, these, such as night robes, dress-
ing sacks, combs, brushes, towels, toilet
soap, pins, etc., every lady is supposed to
carry in her suit case as indispensable arti-
cles, however, if through accident or forget-
fulness on our part, these are, or have to be
supplied by the hostess, they should be
used with care and left in good condition.
	When one enters a home ’tis the duty of
the guest to ascertain the time for the ser-
vice of every meal, and she should make it
her duty to be present on time, to keep a
dinner waiting unless for an excellent rea-
son, is almost unpardonable. Every well
bred woman takes good care of her bed and
every article in the room, if the hostess
has her own work to do, the guest should
attend to her private apartment. If we are
going to visit a friend or even a relative ’tis
our duty to write and ask if it will be con-
venient for them to receive us, and we
should also state the time we expect to re-
main, on returning write and thank our
hostess for the pleasant stay enjoyed at her
house. Presents should be recognized, if
accepted in the same way
	Under the head of hospitality we group
respectability, for no family with dignity
and an understanding rightly balanced can
possibly lack this qualification. In our im-
mediate home circle, we should always re-
spect the privacy, the feelings of every
member, as well as those of visitors, bring-
ing congenial persons together when possi-
ble Never allow sacred things or subjects
discussed or spoken lighty of, reverence age,
and teach our young people to respect gray
hairs, set an example of kind courtesy and
keep our promises to our children and live
within our means. Make our personal ap-
pearance and homes attractive, gain the
confidence of each member therein. Allow
our young people every proper privilege,
give hospitality to their friends, invite good,
pure, honorable young men and women to
partake of that, influence and we will soon
have fewer subjects for reform schools, and
many more white souls in the walks of use-
ful ambition and respectable citizenship.
	Sisters, we were organized to be the
saviors of souls as well as to look after the
poor, the needy, the sick and sorrowful, to
minister to the dying and lay out the dead.
	We stand as the mothers of all other sis-
ter associations in our Church, organized
sixty-eight years ago by our greatly beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, he who suffered per-
secution, imprisonment, yes, martyrdom
that the Gospel of our Savior Jesus Christ
might be re-established never more to be
thrown down! Do we fully appreciate this
fact, do we realize the opportunities we to-
day enjoy? Are we loyal to this cause and
to each other? Does our hospitality have
that connected circumference that it should
have? Are we the model wives, mothers
and friends that our light and knowledge
guarantee? Do we treat our husbands with

[Column 2]
the love and respect which is their due? Are
we the guardians in spirit and discipline to
our children what we should be at all times?
Are we just benefactors to the girls we em-
ploy in our homes? Are we in religious,
domestic and social life the representative
women our credentials warrant?
	If we are not, let us eradicate every selfish
thought, study to improve by inculcating
every true and worthy motive, ask for in-
spiration to lead and direct our every act,
our Father is merciful and He will assist us.
	Let us study the needs and best methods
to assist the poor, teach them to be self-
supporting. Visit the aged, the old and
new members in the wards, the late con-
verts from foreign countries, be kind and
considerate of their feelings, let them know
we are their friends, also, the widow and
orphans.
	God is our Father and He will hold us ac-
countable, if one of His children is through
neglect or our folly lost by the way. We
have the Gospel to direct us, as the chil-
dren of ancient Israel had Moses to lead
them.
	Sisters, we are blessed above many wo-
men, we have advantages, unlimited privi-
leges, few of the women in the world today
possess therefore, our hospitality should
encompass the universe, for it will eventu-
ally aid in reaching the eternity, uniting all
factions, creeds, nations, and people for
’twill be everlasting.
	May our Heavenly Parent grant us the
power to understand our whole duty, and
that we may have strength to do it is my
earnest and sincere prayer.
