[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Groneman]
[The Yellow Line Thelma Groneman]

In deep fat in a deep fat fryer. The lemon juice makes the flour cling to the fish and the flour makes the batter cling evenly. Serve fish with French-fried potatoes. Batter for Fish and Chips: 1 c. Sifted flour 2%, c. Milk 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Butter, melted 2 eggs, beaten Sift flour and salt together. Add beaten eggs, milk, and butter and combine to make 'a smooth batter. STUFFED CABBAGE 1 cabbage, medium-sized 2 cans tomato soup 1 lb. Ground beef 1 onion, large 1 c. Uncooked rice seasonings Cook the cabbage whole until just tender. Fry meat with onion and seasonings. Mix rice and meat. Wrap meat mixture in the cooked cabbage leaves and brown in same skillet that was used to fry meat. 'The leaves should be nicely browned on all sides. Place stuffed leaves in casserole and pour tomato soup over them. Bake two hours in moderate oven. Soup may be diluted with milk if the soup is too thick. The stuffed cabbage should have a rich sauce and not be too dry. PIckLE RELISH 8 large cucumbers Brine: 1 head cauliflower "" ¢. Salt 12 large onions 4 c. Boiling water 2 red peppers 7 Put cucumbers, cauliflower, onions, and peppers through food chopper. Soak thirty minutes in brine. Drain chopped vegetables for two or three hours. Dressing Ingredients: 8 c. Vinegar 1 tbsp. Celery seed 8 c. White sugar % c. Flour "4 c. Mustard / tbsp. Turmeric Cook all ingredients together for twenty minutes. Bottle and seal. SWEET AND SOUR SPARERIBS 2% Ibs. Spareribs 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 c. Tomato juice c. Vinegar c. Brown sugar tsp. Soy sauce (more if desired) — Oe Oe NN PN tN Brown spareribs and pour off excess grease. Mix remaining ingredients together and pour over the spareribs and cook very slowly for three hours. Page 442 RECIPES FROM THE WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION 443 Rice for serving with Spareribs: 74 Cc. Rice 2 tbsp. Butter salt to taste 1% c. Boiling water 2 tbsp. Minced onion Mix these ingredients and then place in a cake tin or casserole and bake along with the spareribs. BROILED CHICKEN Cut up and prepare for cooking one chicken (fryer). Brush pieces of chicken with melted butter using a pastry brush. Roll in crushed potato chips. Place pieces on broiler rack and place in oven and bake one and one-half hours at 325°F. Mettinc MoMENTS % Ib. Butter 2 tbsp. Confectioner's sugar 2 c. Cake flour* Cream butter, add confectioner's sugar and flour. Drop in small quantities on baking sheet. Bake ten to fifteen minutes at 325°. Put together in sandwich form with icing. These cookies should be only about one inch in diameter when baked. This recipe is made easier in an electric mixer. Variations can be made by adding chopped nuts or fruits and making larger balls. Roll in powdered sugar after baking and before cooling. * All-purpose flour may be used by adding 2 tbsp. Cornstarch per cup and sifting thoroughly. —»_<- With You A way Enola Chamberlin I thought I could not bear to view The yellow daffodils, Nor watch the early grass of spring Make green the rain-black hills. I thought my heart would break when blooms Were on the apple tree, With sunlight dappled underneath And you not here to see. I thought the rose and violet Would put my peace to rout; That I would have to seal my room To keep their perfume out. But I was so prepared for these, Had such a courage gained, That they had come and gone and still My fortitude remained. Until about an hour ago, When near the west porch wall, I found the treasured knife you lost While pruning vines last fall. The Long View Sara O. RISTINE spread the wool blankets along the lines, then went up the tailored walk toward the patio of her new home. Her mother, Mrs. Day, sat in the lawn swing holding Anne, the sixmonth-old baby. Kristine sat down on the rustic bench close by, a dozen worries persisting in her mind. "I dread bringing Phil home from the hospital tomorrow," she said. "There will be so many things to distract him, and he's still so nervous since the accident. Contractors coming, people, telephone calls — Mother, I'm afraid Phil's made a terrible mistake. He should never have given up his teaching." The older woman rocked with the sleeping baby's head on her shoulder. "I thought so from the beginning, dear," she said, "but falling heir to all this mountain land, and the way people are clamoring for long-view property, I'm sure Phil felt he was using his engineering degree to advantage in developing this hill. And yet, Phil's a born teacher, Kristine. He belongs with the young people." Kristine did not answer, but looked down into the valley. The streets were like ribbons, squaring off evenly cut blocks like a patchwork quilt. Every tall building could be identified, and back of Capitol Hill, the houses clung to the slopes, on up toward the top. And the lake lay far in the distance, and the low mountains, protectingly hemmed in the valley. It was a beautiful sight. "I remember that first night we Page 444 Moss drove up here, Mother," said Kristine musingly. "It was the day Phil found out. About Uncle Charlie's leaving him the mountain land. We stood about here, and the long view did it.