[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Womans | Author: Annon]
Sixty    Ljears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  July  i,  and  July  15,  1898 
*ToR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
VISIT  TO  SAN  LUIS  STAKE:  We  held  meetings  in  Morgan  and  Richfield  and 
Eastdale,  the  last  twenty-five  miles  away  across  the  Rio  Grande  River  over  which  has 
been  built  a  stupendous  iron  bridge.  The  drive  to  Eastdale  was  most  interesting  and 
there  were  novelties  to  be  seen  in  Spanish  and  Mexican  houses.  .  .  .  Eastdale  is  beautifully 
situated  and  at  present  prosperous  under  the  direction  of  Bishop  Jenson  who  seems  to 
possess  the  elements  of  character  necessary  for  colonizing.  We  enjoyed  this  place  very 
much,  held  two  meetings.  .  .  .  We  left  early  in  the  morning  and  drove  near  to  a  rugged 
mountain  on  the  borders  of  New  Mexico,  en  route  we  saw  several  wolves  who  seemed 
very  bold  and  fleet  of  foot.  .  .  .  We  reached  Manassa  as  we  supposed  in  time  for  an 
afternoon  meeting,  but  were  surprised  to  find  a  banquet  had  been  prepared  instead  in 
the  new  hall  just  purchased  by  the  sisters  there  for  the  use  of  the  Relief  Society.  .  .  . 
— Emmeline  B.  Wells 
THE  MOTHERS'  CONGRESS:  The  Mothers'  Congress  which  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  in  this  city  commencing  June  30,  and  closing  July  2,  was  a  complete 
success,  and  being  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  West,  demonstrated  the  fact  that  Western 
women  are  alive  to  the  best  interests  and  welfare  of  the  nation  of  which  they  are  an 
important  part.  .  .  .  The  Latter-day  Saints  have  ever  been  alive  upon  the  question  of 
motherhood,  and  through  the  Council  of  Health  and  the  Relief  Society  .  .  .  have  been 
inculcating  the  knowledge  and  insisting  upon  the  holiness  of  this  condition,  and  its 
manifold  duties  and  responsibilities. 
— Editorial  Note 
X'' 
A  VISION 
Evening's  shades  around  me  fall,  and  hush  the  great 
world's  hum; 
Quiet  pervades  in  \'ales  of  peace,  as  glints  the 
setting  sun. 
Only  the  wind's  soft  murmuring  song  is  borne  on 
the  ambient  air; 
While  musing  I  sit  and  ponder  long,  on  the  fate 
of  all  things  fair.  .  .  . 
— Lydia  D.  Alder 
SALT  LAKE  STAKE  ENCOURAGES  A  CLASS  FOR  NURSES:  Counselor 
A.  T.  Hyde  welcomed  the  sisters  and  stated  that  President  M.  I.  Home  had  been  thrown 
from  a  buggy  and  was  bruised  about  the  face,  but  hoped  she  would  be  able  to  meet  with 
us  yet;  also  spoke  of  the  nursing  class  and  requested  President  E.  S.  Taylor  ...  to  state 
her  feelings  in  regard  to  the  class.  Sister  Taylor  said  she  thought  the  movement  a  grand 
one.  "To  think  that  one  hundred  and  fifty  of  our  sisters  can  obtain  a  good  training 
to  enable  them  to  nurse  the  sick  and  also  to  nurse  their  own  families  skillfully.  I  am 
proud  that  some  of  our  young  ladies  have  volunteered  to  take  this  course  of  study.  A 
nurse  should  love  to  do  good,  love  those  around  her  and  be  cheerful  in  the  presence  of 
the  sick.  Many  of  you  may  never  be  called  upon  to  nurse  the  poor,  but  should  you, 
your  heart  should  be  so  generous  that  you  will  be  willing  to  bless  others,  then  you  will 
have  the  greater  remuneration.  .  .  ." 
— L.  D.  Alder,  Act.  Sec. 
Page  436

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
r\R.  HELENE  TOOLAN  of  the 
Sloan  -  Kettering  Institute  in 
New  York,  is  credited  with  signifi- 
cant and  encouraging  research  to- 
wards finding  an  eventual  anti-can- 
cer vaccine.  She  has  pin-pointed  for 
the  first  time  "the  part  of  the  cancer 
cell  that  is  involved  in  an  animal's 
defense  against  transplanted  human 
cancer." 
lyj ABEL  LAW  ATKINSON,  who 
has  won  awards  in  the  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Poem,  and  in  Relief  Society 
Short  Story  Contests,  was  recently 
awarded  the  first  prize  of  $100  in 
the  Minnesota  Statehood  Centen- 
nial Contest  1958.  Mrs.  Atkinson 
also  received  first  honorable  men- 
tion in  the  recent  Franklin  Pierre 
Davis  Contest  for  poems  on  ''every- 
day living/' 
■JV/IORE  than  5,000  women  are  em- 
ployed by  the  Federal  Bureau 
of  Investigation.  They  serve  as  lab- 
oratory assistants,  technicians,  trans- 
lators, code  and  cipher  examiners, 
telephone  operators,  secretaries, 
stenographers,  clerks,  and  do  many 
other  kinds  of  detailed  and  im- 
portant work. 
lyriSS     JEAN     LISTEBARGER, 
second-grade  teacher  at  the 
Edwards  School  in  Ames,  Iowa,  is 
McCaJYs  National  Teacher  of  the 
Year  for  1958.  She  challenges  su- 
perior    students     with     additional 
assignments  and  personally  helps  the 
backward.  She  is  convinced  that 
children  will  read  if  they  learn  early 
to  want  to  read.  She  teaches  her 
twenty-seven  students  Spanish  be- 
cause young  children  pick  up  lan- 
guages so  easily. 
PBBA  MATHESIUS,  formerly  of 
Provo,  Utah,  and  now  at  Gene- 
va, Illinois,  has  written  a  delightful 
book  for  children,  Ingehoig  of 
Sweden.  Published  by  Whittier 
Books,  Inc.  of  New  York  City,  the 
book  is  inscribed  "To  the  Children 
of  America  and  to  Those  Grown- 
Ups  Who  Still  Cherish  Their  Child- 
hood Memories."  The  book  nar- 
rates the  adventures  and  home  life 
of  Ingeborg  who  lives  on  a  large 
Swedish  estate  and  participates  joy- 
ously in  the  customs  of  her  people. 
The  author,  a  good  friend  to  Latter- 
day  Saints,  was  born  in  Sweden  and 
came  to  the  United  States  in  1912. 
She  is  an  accomplished  lecturer  and 
musician  and  the  author  of  the 
pamphlet  "Peace  Is  Made  in  the 
Minds  of  Men." 
qPHEODORA  C.  STANWELL- 
^  FLETCHER,  a  naturalist  and 
a  highly  adventurous  woman,  in 
Clear  Lands  and  Icy  Sea  (Dodd 
Mead  and  Company)  gives  a  vivid 
picture  of  the  Arctic  beauty  of 
southern  Baffin  Island  and  eastern 
Hudson  Bay,  and  many  interesting 
people  connected  therewith. 
Page  437

EDITORIAL 
VOL.    45 
JULY    1958 
NO.    7 
I  Lecessary[   Conditions  for  the  LKestoration 
of  the   (gospel 
/^F  significance  to  Latter-day  Saints 
of  whatever  nationality  with  re- 
lation to  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel,  are  two  paragraphs  in  the 
Dedicatory  Prayer  delivered  by  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  at  the  New 
Zealand  Temple.    He  prayed: 
We  are  grateful  for  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  of  America  which  per- 
mitted the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  be  divinely  established 
and  which  grants  to  every  man  the  right 
to  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  his  own  conscience.  .  .  . 
We  are  grateful  that  into  the  hearts  of 
all  Thou  hast  implanted  the  divine  gift 
of  free  agency  with  the  resultant  conscious- 
ness of  human  dignity  and  the  assurance 
that  each  individual  is  precious  in  Thy 
sight. 
One  is  reminded  of  necessary  con- 
ditions for  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  in  the  latter  days  and  the  part 
which  the  United  States'  of  America 
had  in  the  restoration.  From  re- 
vealed scripture  we  learn  that  from 
the  beginning  the  Western  Hemi- 
sphere has  been  ''a  land  of  promise/' 
''a  land  of  liberty/'  a  ''land  .  .  .  kept 
from  the  knowledge  of  other  na- 
tions/' a  ''land  choice  above  all  oth- 
er lands."  The  garden  of  Eden  was 
here.  Three  years  prior  to  Adam's 
death  he  called  "the  residue  of  his 
posterity,  who  were  righteous,  into 
the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ahman, 
and  there  bestowed  upon  them  his 
last  blessing  .  .  .  and  notwithstand- 
ing he  was  bowed  down  with  age 
Page  438 
.  .  .  predicted  whatsoever  should 
befall  his  posterity  unto  the  latest 
generation." 
Lehi  declared  "There  shall  none 
come  unto  this  land  save  they  shall 
be  brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord." 
The  warning  also  went  "and  what- 
soever nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
serve  God  or  they  shall  be  swept 
off  .  .  .  for  it  is  the  everlasting  decree 
of  God"  (Ether  2:7  ff.). 
In  modern  days  the  promised  land 
was  discovered  bv  Columbus,  a  man 
among  the  Gentiles  on  whom  "the 
Spirit  of  God"  wrought  and  who 
"went  forth  upon  the  many  waters." 
Lehi  also  observed  that  "the  Spirit 
of  God  .  .  .  wrought  upon  other 
Gentiles  and  they  went  forth  out 
of  captivity  .  .  .  and  they  did  pros- 
per and  obtain  the  land  for  their 
inheritance;  and  I  beheld  that  they 
were  white  and  exceeding  fair  and 
beautiful"  and  "did  humble  them- 
selves before  the  Lord  and  the  pow- 
er of  the  Lord  was  with  them" 
(I  Nephi  13:12  ff.). 
The  principle  of  free  agency  over 
which  the  war  in  heaven  was  fought 
fired  the  tinder  which  struck  off  The 
Declaration  of  Independence,  whose 
i82d  anniversary  is  observed  this 
July  4th.  In  righteous  wrath 
against  injustices  of  the  mother 
country,  patriots  began  to  forge  the 
events  which  some  years  later  re- 
sulted in  the  adoption  of  the  Con- 
stitution    of     the     United     States