[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
[You Can Sew — V. Pressing Jean Ridges Jennings]

I shall never forget the lights of the city that night, sparkling, dazzling, reaching far around the city and the valley. They looked like a necklace of jewels on black velvet. I just wanted to feast on their beauty, not wanting to let them go. We decided then on the development. It seemed like a wonderful idea at the time, but the point is, we've never had a tranquil day since. And we used to have so much fun. Every day then was a challenge." "And all because you were doing the thing you loved most — molding young lives. Well, much as I adore holding this baby, I must go. It's getting late." Mrs. Day rose carefully to keep the baby sleeping. Kristine got up, too, and led the way to the child's room. After tucking a light blanket over the baby, the two women went out again, Mrs. Day entering her car. "I think you're nght about keeping Phil quiet for a while," said the mother. "He's still suffering from shock, and he needs a great deal of rest, Kristine. See that he gets it. And don't worry." She backed out, waving as she sped away down the road. When her mother had _ gone, Kristine entered into the usual routine of the late afternoon. She ate an early meal with David, her sixyear-old, then helped him with his THE LONG VIEW reading. She fed the baby and got her ready for bed. After tucking her into her crib, she was startled to hear the doorbell ringing. She hurried down the long corridor to answer it. "Why, Sister Currie!" exclaimed Kristine with genuine welcome, when she saw a neighbor from the old home street. "How good to see you!" She hugged the little woman, then ushered her into the spacious living room. "Your new home is surely elegant, Sister Westman," said the older woman, her roving eyes taking in the pretentious furnishings about her, as she sat on the green lounge chair. RISTINE smiled. "I'm having a time to get used to it," she confessed. "Everything is so automatic. Sometimes I long for the clumsy old house on Juniper Street." "And how we wish you were back," Sister Currie answered. Her eyes filled and her voice choked on the last words. "You're in trouble," said Kristine, moving closer. "Is it 'Tommy?" Sister Currie nodded. "Yes, it's Tommy," she said. "He wants to quit school and go into vocational training. We try to tell him that he needs the foundation he's getting now, but it's no use. He says he's just tired of it. 'Tommy could be almost anything that he chose, if he could only see it." Kristine remembered how Phil had prized Tommy's ability at figures. "I wish Phil could do something for Tommy," she said. 'Then she told her old neighbor about Phil's accident. She realized now she should have called Sister Currie 445 as she saw the hurt look on her face. "Things have a way here of just piling up. We don't even have time to telephone, or do the things that used to seem important to us. We have to live so fast, it's like a race." "I had hoped that Brother Westman could talk to Tommy," said the older woman. "He's such an ideal person, in 'ommy's estimation. Just being around him has often helped my boy." Kristine followed her guest to the door after a few minutes, and, as she took her leave, she half wished that she could bundle her two children and herself into the old model car and ride with her to the house on Juniper Street. Before Kristine had shut the door, Randolph Barnett, a building contractor came up the walk. Kristine, seeing him, felt a lift to her depressed spirits for he was not only a good contractor, but a good friend of Phil's. "How's Phil?" Randolph asked, dropping into the lounge chair. "I thought I'd get up to see him today, but a few details got ahead of me," he laughed. "I guess you know how that can happen, being in the same business." "Only too well,' answered Kristine with a smile, but gaining strength from Randolph's calmness. "Phil's going to be all nght, Randy," she said with assurance. "He's still nervous and worried about all the work that is piling up around here. There's so much mail, people wanting their work done, some are anxious to get their homes ready to move into — but outside of that Phil feels fine." "It was a close call," "It was," agreed Kristine, said Randy. "and 446 we're very grateful that he's alive and getting well. Of course he'll have to use a cane for some time, and it will be awhile before he can use his broken arm, but those things will mend." Randy rose and looked around the room. "I'd like Alice to see this view from this window at night," he said going to the wide windows and gazing out on the city. "She thinks this hill property is the choice spot of the town." "Bring Alice over, Randy," said Kristine. "It's been so long since we've seen either of you. 'I'oo long." She followed Randy to the door. "Tl drop in on Phil in a day or two," said Randy. "Maybe I can help him take care of a few small items like committments, abstracts, some of the problems that come up on the water situation, and save him a lot of running around until he feels up to it."