[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: LESSON | Author: Doxey]
The temporal riches of this world LESSON DEPARTMENT are provided by an all-wise Father that we might sustain ourselves. For, behold, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which cometh of the earth, is ordained for the use of man for food and for raiment, and that he might have in abundance (D & C 49:19). The great Welfare Plan, in which you sisters take such an important part, certainly points up the need for concern about this world's goods. This activity for those in need gives you a rich opportunity to serve your fellow man. So important is the emphasis of The Book of Mormon upon temporal matters, that Amulek admonished those of his day to "cry [pray] unto" the Lord over the crops and flocks of the fields, that the people might prosper in them. (See Alma 34:24, 25.) One's temporal welfare is of such importance that President Joseph F. Smith declared: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them _ prosperous and happy here cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt them in the life to come (The Welfare Plan, Albert E. Bowen, page 36). It seems quite clear from these few ideas that riches are not to be shunned by Latter-day Saints, but rather that they have a definite place in the Lord's purposes for man. Actually, the line of separation between the temporal and the spiritual is so indefinite in the sight of the Lord that a distinction should not be attempted. (See D & C 29:34, 35; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, page 70.) 465 An Evaluation of Wealth As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition), the important message to be remembered is that:. Our Lord does not object to his people's being rich. It all depends on how they obtain wealth and how they use it. Wealth obtained by dishonesty and oppression is a curse. Wealth, used. For the furtherance of His kingdom is a means of eternal exaltation (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 208). The riches of this earth should be a means to an end. When considered from the point of view of eternity, which is the only true criterion, riches are designed for the building up of the kingdom of God and its members. 'lhe Lord is truly the owner of all temporal possessions and we are but stewards. (See D & C 104:13-17.) What Is Wisdom? To seek for wealth solely for the sake of satisfying one's pride, ambition, desire for power or for worldly pleasures, or other reasons for purposes inconsistent with gospel aims, is a barrier to a Latter-day Saint's spiritual welfare. On the other hand, wisdom, which is a gift of the Holy Ghost (See D & C 46:17, 18), is to be sought. Wisdom is the application of gospel principles into one's life. Knowledge without such application will lead to disappointment and loss of the "crown of righteousness." The wise person is he who learns the will of the Lord and then does it. Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding (Prov. 4:7). 466 Otto Done THE SUSQUEHANNA RIVER NEAR HARMONY, PENNSYLVANIA RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 (The Revelation, Section 11 of The Doctrine and Covenants, was given at Harmony, Pennsylvania, in May 1829) O, remember, my son, and learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, learn in thy youth to keep the commandments of God (Alma 37:35). As one draws close to the Lord through prayer and righteous conduct, together with-study of the scriptures, there comes the power to discriminate between the true and the spurious. Are the "Mysteries" to Be Left Alone? What is the Lord's promise to those who seek wisdom? He has said that the "mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you." And yet, how many of us have heard over the years the advice to leave the mysteries alone? 'The Prophet Joseph Smith said:. Declare the first principles, and let mysteries alone, lest ye be overthrown. Never meddle with the visions of beasts and subjects you do not understand (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 292). We should keep in mind that there are mysteries which should not concern us. When the Lord is willing to open some of his treasures of knowledge beyond what is already understandable, he will do so. Until then, however, let us keep within the framework which he has established. 'To go outside of these confines in attempting to learn of things which do not directly apply to our salvation is productive of contention and a loss of faith. In view of this advice from the Prophet, why should the Lord promise Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith that the mysteries of his kingdom would be made known to them? The answer is probably LESSON DEPARTMENT found in the fact that these men had just begun to learn about some of the Lord's purposes. 'Their understanding of the Lord's purposes was like that of a child.

'They had to grow and develop in this work. Through Whom the "Mysteries" Are Made Known Actually the "mysteries of God" are unfolded to men by divine revelation through the prophets. (See Eph. 1:9, 10; I Nephi 1:1; D& C 76:12, 114.) Some of these "mysteries" are not to be made known until the people are ready to receive them. It was not until late in Joseph Smith's life that revelations concerning the temple work and ordinances relating to the dead were made known to the membership of the Church. (See D & C 124, 128.) Germane to this point is Joseph Smith's statement: The Lord deals with this people as a tender parent with a child, communicating light and intelligence and the knowledge of his ways as they can bear it (D. H. C. V:402). The principle just stated applies not only to the membership of the Church as a whole, but also to the individual. As one grows in understanding of the gospel through his obedience, more is made known to him. This was true in the days of the Savior as it is today. (See Mt. 13:10-13; D & C 42:65, 66.) What may be a "mystery" to one person may not be to another. It depends upon the "heed and _ diligence" which one gives to the words of the prophets. (See Alma 12:9-11.) Consistent with what has already been given, one can readily understand that not all of the Lord's 467 mysteries have been revealed. In fact, great blessings of knowledge are a part of the eternal plan that is known by Latter-day Saints as eternal progression. In these words the Lord has given a promise to his faithful saints: "And to them I will reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom..." (D & C 76:7). What Eternal Life Is If one receives the blessing of the faithful, he will be rich, for his reward is eternal life. But what is eternal life? It is more than immortality or the enjoyment of unending conscious existence. The resurrection or immortality is for everyone who is born into mortality. If we seek for the riches of the kingdom of God, walking in obedience to the commandments, the Lord has promised us that we shall receive the mysteries of God and then we shall receive eternal life. If, on the other hand, we seek the riches of the earth as opposed to the wisdom of following the commandments of the Lord, we shall lose the greatest of all blessings— eternal life. Application of the Text How does our text (D & C 11:7) apply to the members of the Church? First, we learn that we should prepare early in life to learn the things of God. Second, preparation for eternal life is a slow process. When you climb up a ladder, you must begin at the bottom, and ascend step by step, until you arrive at the top; and so it is with the principles of the Gospel — 468 you must begin with the first, and go on until you learn all the principles of exaltation. But it will be a great while after you have passed through the veil before you will have learned them. It is not all to be comprehended in this world; it will be a great work to learn our salvation and exaltation even beyond the grave.. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 348). Third, in the process of being saved or exalted, it is necessary that one study the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See D & C 131:6; 130:18, 19.) Fourth, we are to acquire wisdom through "study by faith," prayer, humility, and the wise application of knowledge. A testimony of the gospel is a necesary part of this process of salvation. Fifth, among the "mysteries of God" for the faithful are the higher ordinances of the gospel. 'These ordinances are received in the temples of the Lord. The necessity of receiving these sacred ordinances was expressed by the Prophet Joseph Smith in these words: What was the object of gathering the Jews, or the people of God in any age of the world? - The main object was to build unto the Lord a house whereby He could reveal unto His people the ordinances of His house and the glories of His kingdom, and teach the people the way of salvation; for there are certain ordinances and principles that, when they are taught and practiced, must be done in a place or house built for that purpose.