[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    Ljears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  July  i,  and  July  15,  1898 
*ToR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
VISIT  TO  SAN  LUIS  STAKE:  We  held  meetings  in  Morgan  and  Richfield  and 
Eastdale,  the  last  twenty-five  miles  away  across  the  Rio  Grande  River  over  which  has 
been  built  a  stupendous  iron  bridge.  The  drive  to  Eastdale  was  most  interesting  and 
there  were  novelties  to  be  seen  in  Spanish  and  Mexican  houses.  .  .  .  Eastdale  is  beautifully 
situated  and  at  present  prosperous  under  the  direction  of  Bishop  Jenson  who  seems  to 
possess  the  elements  of  character  necessary  for  colonizing.  We  enjoyed  this  place  very 
much,  held  two  meetings.  .  .  .  We  left  early  in  the  morning  and  drove  near  to  a  rugged 
mountain  on  the  borders  of  New  Mexico,  en  route  we  saw  several  wolves  who  seemed 
very  bold  and  fleet  of  foot.  .  .  .  We  reached  Manassa  as  we  supposed  in  time  for  an 
afternoon  meeting,  but  were  surprised  to  find  a  banquet  had  been  prepared  instead  in 
the  new  hall  just  purchased  by  the  sisters  there  for  the  use  of  the  Relief  Society.  .  .  . 
— Emmeline  B.  Wells 
THE  MOTHERS'  CONGRESS:  The  Mothers'  Congress  which  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  in  this  city  commencing  June  30,  and  closing  July  2,  was  a  complete 
success,  and  being  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  West,  demonstrated  the  fact  that  Western 
women  are  alive  to  the  best  interests  and  welfare  of  the  nation  of  which  they  are  an 
important  part.  .  .  .  The  Latter-day  Saints  have  ever  been  alive  upon  the  question  of 
motherhood,  and  through  the  Council  of  Health  and  the  Relief  Society  .  .  .  have  been 
inculcating  the  knowledge  and  insisting  upon  the  holiness  of  this  condition,  and  its 
manifold  duties  and  responsibilities. 
— Editorial  Note 
X'' 
A  VISION 
Evening's  shades  around  me  fall,  and  hush  the  great 
world's  hum; 
Quiet  pervades  in  \'ales  of  peace,  as  glints  the 
setting  sun. 
Only  the  wind's  soft  murmuring  song  is  borne  on 
the  ambient  air; 
While  musing  I  sit  and  ponder  long,  on  the  fate 
of  all  things  fair.  .  .  . 
— Lydia  D.  Alder 
SALT  LAKE  STAKE  ENCOURAGES  A  CLASS  FOR  NURSES:  Counselor 
A.  T.  Hyde  welcomed  the  sisters  and  stated  that  President  M.  I.  Home  had  been  thrown 
from  a  buggy  and  was  bruised  about  the  face,  but  hoped  she  would  be  able  to  meet  with 
us  yet;  also  spoke  of  the  nursing  class  and  requested  President  E.  S.  Taylor  ...  to  state 
her  feelings  in  regard  to  the  class.  Sister  Taylor  said  she  thought  the  movement  a  grand 
one.  "To  think  that  one  hundred  and  fifty  of  our  sisters  can  obtain  a  good  training 
to  enable  them  to  nurse  the  sick  and  also  to  nurse  their  own  families  skillfully.  I  am 
proud  that  some  of  our  young  ladies  have  volunteered  to  take  this  course  of  study.  A 
nurse  should  love  to  do  good,  love  those  around  her  and  be  cheerful  in  the  presence  of 
the  sick.  Many  of  you  may  never  be  called  upon  to  nurse  the  poor,  but  should  you, 
your  heart  should  be  so  generous  that  you  will  be  willing  to  bless  others,  then  you  will 
have  the  greater  remuneration.  .  .  ." 
— L.  D.  Alder,  Act.  Sec. 
Page  436