[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: FEATURES | Author: Hanks]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME A House for Living Olive A. Hanks]
EDITORIAL 
439 
framed  by  the  ''hands  of  wise  men'' 
whom  the  Lord  declared  he  raised 
up  "unto  that  \'ery  purpose." 
I'he  Constitution,  divinely  in- 
spired, bestowed  freedom  of  religion 
on  all  those  who  lived  under  its  pro- 
visions. The  great  plan  for  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  in  these 
latter  days  neared  realization  with 
its  adoption.  The  land  was  sanctified 
by  the  shedding  of  blood  and  soon 
the  great  Prophet  of  the  last  dispen- 
sation was  born  in  the  promised 
land  which  had  been  prepared  for 
the  establishment  of  the  gospel. 
The  Go\ernment  of  the  United 
States  has  had  a  vital  role  in  the 
mission  of  the  establishment  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  In  the 
present  year  when  world  conditions 
are  uncertain  and  men's  hearts  fail 
them,  it  is  weW  to  recall  the  words 
of  Lehi  concerning  the  Gentiles  w^ho 
prospered  and  obtained  the  land  of 
their  inheritance.  One  who  would 
continue  his  inheritance  must  fol- 
low the  pattern  described  by  Lehi 
of  the  inheritors  who  "did  humble 
themsehes  before  the  Lord  and  the 
power  of  the  Lord  was  with  them." 
Only  through  humility  and  worship 
of  Christ  as  the  God  of  this  land 
will  the  United  States  of  America 
continue  to  fulfill  its  destiny. 
Elder  Matthew  Cowley  uttered 
words  of  prophetic  portent: 
...  I  say  thank  God  for  the  moral 
standards  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  if  this  country 
is  e\er  defeated,  it  will  be  defeated  bv 
per\ersion  within  the  country,  by  moral 
decay.  There  is  no  power  outside  the  con- 
fines of  this  land  which  can  defeat  us, 
if  we  are  strong  in  our  righteousness.  That 
is  our  armor  and  our  shield  (Matthew 
Cowley  Speaks,  page  283). -M.  C.  S. 
Linful filled 
Patiicia  Lentz 
Why  is  it  that  \\hen  music  fills  the  air 
With  sweet  wild  note, 
Tears  brim  my  eyes  and  voiceless  longing 
Sv\  ells  my  aching  throat? 
Could  I  but  sing!  What  ccstas}'  to  loose 
The  flood  and  burst  the  bonds 
That  hold  me  fast  and  cruclh-  keep  me  mute! 
And  why  in  springtime,  like  the  rushing  wings 
Of  errant  birds  returning. 
Do  memories  to  my  heart's  home  flock  unbidden 
And  set  me  yearning, 
Till  fires  long  banked  far  fall  and  winter's  slow 
And  steady  consuming, 
Flare  up  and  threaten  to  engulf  me  in  their  blast? 
Why  does  my  spirit  reject  these  mortal  fetters 
And  e\er  outward,  upward  soar. 
Disdaining  to  walk,  and  beat  with  such  persistence 
Its  wings  against  the  very  hca\en's  door? 
What  hidden,  desperate  need  goads  me 
On  through  all  earth's  wanderings 
To  return  here  at  last,  where  I  ma\-  be  fulfilled?

Hono 
IIUL 
Mother 
dionor  cJhyi  CJather  and   l/Lother 
T^HE  word  honoi  is  one  of  the  richest  in  the  language.    It  imphes  esteem, 
reverence,  respect,  courtesy,  integiity,  purity,  chastity  —  and  much 
more. 
'To  honor''  also  requires  obedience  —  to  obey  and  respect  those  we 
would  honor. 
The  commandment  ''Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother"  encompasses 
all  of  these,  and  it  promises  much  for  obedience.    Paul  called  it  "the  first 
Page  440

HONOR  THY  FATHER  AND  THY  MOTHER  441 
commandment  with  a  promise/'    And  what  a  promise,  as  we  shall  see! 
But  first  there's  your  part  to  be  done,  young  men  and  young  women 
of  the  Church. 
Let's  begin  with  the  little  things.  How  long  has  it  been,  you  teen- 
aged  daughter,  since  you  took  your  mother  in  your  arms  and  thanked  her 
for  life  and  the  countless  kind  deeds  she  has  performed  for  you  since  birth? 
Or  vou,  son,  when  did  you  last  thank  Dad  for  food,  clothing,  home, 
education,  the  use  of  his  car,  and  wise  counsel? 
Do  you,  our  sons  and  daughters,  honor  your  parents  in  your  choice 
of  good  companions,  in  your  seen  and  unseen  conduct,  in  Church  attend- 
ance, in  the  sharing  of  home  work,  in  self-improvement,  in  keeping  the 
faith? 
These  are  the  daily  ways  you  can  please  and  honor  parents. 
And  what  are  the  rewards  for  honoring  them? 
First,  there's  joy  and  inward  satisfaction  for  you.  These  blessings  come 
automatically.  Then  there's  the  Lord's  special  promise  that  you  will  "live 
long  on  the  earth"  and  that  ''it  may  go  well  with  you." 
What  a  promise;  what  a  prospect?  To  do  less  than  to  obey  this  com- 
mandment, to  receive  less  in  return,  would  be  to  deprive  yourself  of  one 
of  the  richest  experiences  in  life. 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
Jxe^  to    viyisdom 
Ida.  Elaine  Jnmes 
Waiting  on  the  corner  for  his  bus. 
Face  so  shiny-clean,  meticulous 
In  tingle  of  an  early  breeze,  he  stands; 
School  book  spread  open  in  his  eager  hands, 
A  frown  of  tenseness  on  his  seeking  face. 
WHiat  draws  his  eyes  from  all  the  fragrant  grace 
That  haunts  the  early  morning?  There  must  be, 
Enclosed  in  bookish  covers,  mystery 
Greater  than  birds'  nests  in  the  shadowy  boughs, 
Whose  songful  tenants  lack  the  skill  to  rouse 
His  interest.  Neither  can  the  chattering  squirrels 
Engage  him,  nor  the  cries  of  pretty  girls. 
Authoritatively  his  book  compels  him! 
I  cannot  help  but  wonder  what  it  tells  him. 
Somewhere  along  the  magic  of  its  pages 
He  seeks  the  key  to  wisdom  of  the  ages.