[Vol45 | July 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Mother | Author: Rich]
'The seams, too, must be smooth against the hand, and the thread must be well fastened MOTHER MADE BUCKSKIN GLOVES without hard knots. When _ the sewing was all finished and a wrist band attached, the glove was inside out. Then came the turning which was a process all by itself. A hand-whittled wood turner, worn smooth and shiny by much use, was always kept handy in the sewing basket. It was a slim tapering willow stick just smaller than the glove finger with a coneshaped hole hollowed out in the end. This was inserted into the glove finger and a second smaller stick pressed the unturned end into the cone. With careful and persistent pressure down over the larger stick, finger by finger, the glove was turned right side out. 'This was a slow and not an easy task, but it was most rewarding to see a finished product so useful and so substantial emerge from what was once a jagged piece of tanned hide. From the time that I was a young child, I was trust- 453 ed with this small bit of home manufacturing. 'Today, I can recall some of the thrilling pioneering incidents mother told me as I sat and helped her. Mother's skill in glovemaking was not confined to use by family men only. She used only good material, her measurements were carefully made, her workmanship was honest and good, and many were the hands that were warmed and protected by her industrious labors. Cattle ranchers, well diggers, wood haulers, fence makers, hay and grain harvesters, and countless other laborers have blessed her for the comfort they knew through her skill. Today, one of the sweetest memories I have is a picture that comes to me of a wide fireplace and a burning backlog warming a family group, with mother as a central figure, her hands busy making buckskin gloves. ~~} Srom the Old Days Grace Barker Wilson This is the place we used to ford the stream With horses and wagon. If the day was dry It was no task. But if the stream was high From mountain rains, it was a thrill supreme To feel the wagon shake, and watch the team In battle with the current. What a sigh We gave when safe across. 'To simplify Our progress, then we walked what now would seem Unthinkable in effort up a hill. Sometimes we even pushed to help along The load, or raced each other to the top. Now in this place, the highway makes a fill; The bridge that spans the stream is high and strong. Cars pass, and no adventures make them stop! Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children and decided to go back to them, however, she found them well cared for. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony declared his love for Carol. Brent Gibson telephoned, asking Carol to return to the city to make the illustrations for a serial story. After the work was completed, Carol went back to Wyoming for a vacation. Tony took her on many excursions, and their regard for each other deepened. Finally, Brent Gibson went to the Wyoming ranch to see Carol. HEN Tony dropped in at \¢ Fred's next day and found Brent Gibson on the porch with Carol, he looked accusingly at the girl. "So this is why you wouldn't go on a picnic with me yesterday!' he complained. Carol, unaccountably gay, laughed. "Don't be silly, 'Tony! I had no idea Brent was coming up here." "But you're glad! Mighty glad!" "Of course I'm glad. Brent's my boss, and I had suggested that he come here for his vacation. It's always reassuring to have your boss act upon your suggestions!" "I wish he'd gone some place else!' 'Tony grumbled. Brent was staying at a nearby dude ranch, but Fred and Dolly welcomed him to the happy family circle so cordially that he spent most of his time at the ranch house. He was included, of course, in all their picnics and excursions., Flizabeth's children were enchanted with Brent. They swarmed over him. Carol remembered how he had been with her other nieces and nephews last Christmas, and, as then, her heart was warmed by the man's complete understanding of the child mind. 'Tony was wonderful with them, too, but with Brent there was an intangible something that was different. It was almost as if the children felt an invisible arm around them, protecting them, while they romped. He ought to have children of his own, Carol thought, watching the group one afternoon. If he'd only forget that first love of his, he could find someone who would appreciate him. He didn't look or act like the type of man who would devote his life to nursing a dream, but you never could tell with that silent kind. Carol let her thoughts wander to the kind of woman Brent Gibson might choose, if he ever did choose a wife. But she drew back from actually visualizing her. 'There's no one good enough, she told herself angrily. 'Then she shook herself mentally. Of course you're fond of Brent —he's been mighty good to you, kind and understanding—a wonderful boss. And you ought to be generous enough to want his happiness, she told herself, being stern and honest. 'Then, oh, I do! I do want his happiness! But, oh, Brent, why did you have to let me know that you were not really happy? If we Page 455 456 could only be as we were a year ago—before Elizabeth's death. 'Then we were calm and happy and busy with our work, untroubled by thoughts of homes and motherless children and long lost loves! It was only when Carol was alone that her thoughts churned like this. When she was riding the hills between Brent and Tony, when she was frying flapjacks over a campfire for their activated appetites, when they were clambering up steep slopes or exploring dark caves, Carol was untroubled and happy. She felt gay and competent, and a little excited by the thought that two men were dancing attendance upon her. It was the first time she had been in a position to be a coquette, probably because she had been too busy, first with family responsibilities and then with her job. It was a pleasing, exhilarating situation, and Carol permitted herself to enjoy it to the full. And all the time, she was conscious of Fred and Dolly Graham, intent upon each other, moving inevitably toward marriage. HEY went one day, the whole crowd of them, to explore an Indian cave at the foot of Buck Mountain. It would be a three-day trip, and with the food, tents, and equipment, there was going to be too much, even for the commodious station wagon. 'Tony glanced across the yard at his convertible. "Look, Carol! Why don't you and I go in the convertible? It would give the others more room." Carol was perplexed for a moment. She glanced involuntarily at Brent. Brent came toward them. "That's a good idea, Tony. And maybe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 Becky and I had better climb in with you two. What say, Becky, my girl?" Becky danced up and down, entranced with the idea. It was rather a new experience for the quiet little girl to be singled out, and Brent's attention had made her blossom like a bright little flower. Tony was not to be circumvented so easily. "That will make us even more crowded than the station wagon," he objected. "Maybe you two better go with the family." "Oh, we don't mind!" Brent was perfectly composed. "Becky can sit on my lap — or, if it will be more comfortable for you, Tony, she can sit between us and ['ll hold Carol." "No, you don't!" Tony glared at the suggestion. Oh! Oh! Carol thought, now they're coming out into the open. Tony fighting for a wife—Brent determined to rescue his artist. Well, I don't know that I want to be rescued. An impish impulse moved her. "You're so good with the children, Brent," she said cheerfully. 'Maybe you'd better ride in the station wagon and keep some sort of order in the back seat!" Brent shrugged, his expression shuttered. "Okay, if that's what you want. We don't crowd in where we're not desired, do we, Beck?" He picked the child up and gently tossed her into the station wagon. He climbed in after her. Carol's heart began to beat painfully. That was a mean trick! Why had she done that to Brent? Put him in with a carful of youngsters — no responsibility of his — while she went riding off with Tony. ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN Tony was delighted. He grinned down at Carol with a possessiveness he had never before shown. "Well, we'll have a picnic, whether old Brent does or not!" he exulted. "IT shouldn't have done that, Tony! I don't know what possessed me. It wasn't nice." "Tl say it wasn't!" 'Tony agreed cheerfully. "But he sort of deserved it, coming up here when everything was running so smoothly.