GENERAL SUNDAY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENCY REORGANIZED A new General Sunday School Superintendency was announced December 10, 1966, by the First Presidency of the Church. David Lawrence McKay, First Assistant Superintendent since 1952, was named as the new general superintendent, succeeding Superintendent George R. Hill. Lynn S. Richards, who was formerly Second Assistant, was named as the new first assistant, and Royden G. Derrick was named second assistant. David Lawrence McKay has been a member of the Sunday School General Board since 1944. In 1949, he was appointed second assistant superintendent, and in 1952, first assistant superintendent. He was Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Sunday School superintendent at the time of this call to the general board. Superintendent McKay received his early education in Ogden, Utah, and attended Weber College, the University of Utah, George Washington University, and Harvard University. He served as a missionary in the French part of the Swiss-German Mission, and for six months labored in the British Mission as editor of The Millenial Star. In his new appointment Superintendent McKay succeeds to a position which his father, President David O. McKay held from 1918 to 1934. His wife, Mildred Calderwood McKay, was a member of the Primary General Board. They are parents of four daughters: Midene (Mrs. Howard B. Anderson), Teddy Lyn (Mrs. Richard T. Parmley), Catherine (Mrs. Gerald B. Iba), Joyce (Mrs. Robert S. Bennett). First Assistant Superintendent Lynn S. Richards was appointed second assistant superintendent in 1952, at the time he was serving as bishop of the Federal Heights Ward in University Stake. Previously, he had been bishop of the University Ward. He had been a member of the general board of the Sunday School from 1934 to 1946. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University and Stanford University and is an attorney in Salt Lake City. In 1955, he was named president of the Brigham Young University Alumni Association. He is a son of the late President Stephen L Richards and Irene Merrill Richards. He filled a mission in the Eastern States and was a seminary principal for two years in Preston, Idaho. His wife is Lucille Covey Richards, and they have six children: Lynn S. Jr., Joseph Covey, James Mack, Rosalie Lucille (Mrs. Clarence J. Frost), Victoria Jeanette (Mrs. Stanley A. Taylor), Joyce Louise (Mrs. Verl D. Shell). Second Assistant Superintendent Royden G. Derrick has held many positions of leadership in the Church, including second counselor and first counselor in the Monument Park Stake presidency. He was graduated from West High School, Salt. Lake City, and studied engineering at the University of Utah. He received the University's College of Business Outstanding Achievement Award in 1963, and an honorary degree in 1965. Appointed to the University of Utah Board of Regents in 1957, he was elected chairman of the board in 1959, serving until 1965, when his term expired. A businessman and civic