Laura's Perfect Day "A beautiful, golden sunrise greeted us the next morning. The flat plains could not conceal the eastern horizon as our Rocky Mountains do. How glorious the sun! We had never seen it look so near, and the beauty of that Easter morn was enhanced by the unbrella-shaped mimosa trees bursting forth with red and white plumes. As we drove to church, we enjoyed the many colorful shrubs and flowers and soon forgot our homesickness. "Our destination proved to be a school building, and we thought that we had gone to the wrong place. We saw some children in front of the building and asked them where the church was located. They informed us that the school was the regular meeting place. Well, Mother, Don and I didn't find a lovely, well-decorated chapel like the one in Kingston, but we did find that same sweet spirit among the small group of saints. An Air Force officer provided music on a compact, portable organ, and unpadded folding chairs provided seating. 'Branch President Barker, a Cherokee, was so very friendly and made us feel right at home. Total membership was only thirty in number, but President Barker was just as proud and confident of his little flock as our bishop in Kingston. It didn't take long for us to get acquainted with everyone in the branch. Such strong brotherhood and sisterhood the bonds of the gospel had created there! "Within a month, Don and I had been called to fill four positions, each in various auxiliaries and missionary work. Mother, you know better than anyone how I shirked responsibility in the Kingston Ward... Sometimes letting the other person carry the heavy burdens. With these new callings, I was scared stiff, at first. Imagine me doing the Lord's work with practically no experience! I found myself trying to remember all of the practical and spiritual things you had attempted to teach me in my girlhood. Don was in full sympathy with my lack of experience, because he suffered some of the same symptoms. We decided together that we would fulfill our obligations to the best of our ability, not only because we felt needed, but at the same time, it was a golden opportunity to develop our potentials. Mother, you probably can't imagine the experiences we've had here in the mission field, so I'll tell you more of the details when we see you New Year's Day. "Don has a week's leave before we report for duty at Tracy Field in Idaho, and we are looking forward to seeing you and showing off the new boy. These have been the busiest, happiest years of our lives. We are so thankful that Don was sent here to receive his pilot's training, so that we could help this branch of the Church grow to over two hundred members. Construction of a fine new chapel has just begun, so the Lord's work is progressing here among the Lamanites. Your loving Daughter, Mary Carole." Laura arose and hurried to the front window again. By now, the ground was nearly white with new-fallen snow, and she wondered about the safety of her children. When Don's car turned into the driveway, she could hardly contain her joy. Beaming with motherly pride, she watched them walk toward the front door. How manly and confident her dark-haired flier looked as he helped his young family along the sidewalk! His tanned face and bright blue eyes held a deep expression of determination. Mary Carole, still slim and lovely, no longer walked with a careless, aimless manner. She carried her tiny baby close to her and looked up as Laura rushed out the front door calling to them. "Hi, Mom," were the most beautiful words she had heard in a long time. As she embraced the three of them, Laura knew that this would be her perfect day. - SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE The will be the special short story issue, with the following outstanding short stories being featured: w 'And It Shall Be Given You,"' by Sylvia Probst Young 'The Outsider,'' by Iris W. Schow 'Be Happy, But Remember,"' by Alice P. Willardson m ''The Forgotten Necessity,'' by Luana Shumway Watch for these stories in April and enjoy a journey into four very different fields of fiction.