Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde
No. VII "The Inferiority Feeling"
NEVER before within my recollection has there been a time when the conditions around us seemed to be so topsy-turvy. With war staring us in the face and the experience of the worst depression the world has ever known just past, we look almost with foreboding into the future. The feeling of insecurity which exists is causing unhappiness and in many cases even mental disorders. People are flocking to psychiatrists to be set right because they are so emotionally upset over the conflicts of life that they cannot set themselves right. Nothing that we might read can solve the difficult problems of life, but it is becoming increasingly important that in our reading and in our entertainment we reach for something that will "lift us up." We should select reading material that will promote a healthy attitude toward life. Any book that will give us a better understanding of ourselves will help us to develop a more wholesome attitude toward life in general.
Two books which do this, by discussing personal problems, have been written by William S. Walsh under the titles, The Mastery of Fear and The Inferiority Feeling. The Mastery of Fear is particularly valuable for the "nervous" and the "timid" person. In it, Doctor Walsh discusses the different types of fears and suggests practical remedies after they have developed. In a chapter on fear of public opinion, the author says, "The basic secret of all-enduring satisfaction is: 'To thine own self be true....' To be ourselves, to achieve, requires courage, determination, confidence. It takes these things to do anything of real value. In only a few instances has anything of lasting importance been accomplished save after years of patient and hard study.
"We can gain the esteem of our fellows and at the same time be true to our characters, our beliefs, our personalities. We cannot please everyone all the time. We shall have to disagree, to refuse, to reprimand, to do our own living and our own thinking. We shall be misunderstood, perhaps disliked and criticized, but can gain the good will of the majority.
"All we require is that we be worthy, that we practice the codes of conduct which promote good feeling; e. g.: be courteous to everyone; speak the best of all; be genuinely pleased at the good fortune of our friends; acknowledge their good points. In short, apply the Golden Rule to daily life and practice the fast decaying art of being gentlemen and gentlewomen."
FOR those who are interested in books of a psychological nature (and we all should be), few will contribute more to an intelligent understanding of one's self than The Inferiority Feeling. It takes superlatives to describe the value of this book, so basic and so fundamental is its discussion. Perhaps no one thing has contributed more to the marring of personalities than the feeling of inferiority. What it means and how it is developed is of first
SOME LITERARY FRIENDS
importance in the study of personality. An understanding of these things will greatly simplify one's ability to overcome the feeling. Doctor Walsh has treated the subject of inferiority in an easy, readable style in his excellent volume.
The feeling of inferiority is quite universal, and appears in many forms. Hardly a person exists who has not suffered from some form of it. We feel consoled when we read that Norma Shearer, Claudette Colbert, and even Clark Gable suffer from timidity. The reason for this affliction, we are told, is that the ego is working overtime; that if we felt sufficient we would take things quietly, never boasting, bragging, nor forming the habit of imposing our opinions on others. It may be surprising to learn that the dominating person who always wants his own way is usually suffering from a feeling of inadequacy.
The effect of an inferiority feeling is believed to be tremendous upon character, temperament, happiness and success in life. The first few chapters of Doctor Walsh's book, while a little more technical than other parts of the book, should be carefully read. They are devoted to childhood. During this period, Doctor Walsh points out, the "foundation for these [inferiority] difficulties are laid." We engender this feeling in children when we tell them that they can't do things or can't have things, and particularly when we tell them they are naughty or are not behaving as they should. Therefore, it is important that we try in early life to make children want to do the right thing and that we reward them for good behavior rather than punish them for bad behavior.
An inferiority feeling may develop, too, as children grow up and discover that the mother they once thought so beautiful is not so good looking as some others or that they themselves have ugly teeth, freckles, or some other physical defect. At such a time, the author says, we must prevent the development of the inferiority feeling by showing them that no one person has everything that is desirable, but that on the whole they compare favorably with the group. With such teaching, a sense of adequacy and security is developed. A sense of security is of utmost importance to us all. It is one thing a successful home must give its members.
"How much this inferiority feeling will affect us will depend upon how much emotional value has been placed upon it. If it has become exaggerated, we become timorous and lack confidence.... The desire to join clubs often has as a basis the wish to overcome a feeling of inferiority or unimportance."
THE book contains a very fine chapter on complexes and conflicts, which are responsible for much of our thinking being based upon emotion. This is why much of our thinking is faulty. When a situation is complex and unpleasant, the author points out, the most satisfactory adjustment is made by facing it honestly and studying the best methods of meeting it. He states that it is dangerous to refuse to face difficulties or to run away from them. He warns us against repression, which is unwise because it may cause mental difficulties. He also states that trying to forget the disagreeable is not the best way out.
Physical handicaps frequently cause feelings of inferiority. Many people make satisfactory adjustments by overcoming their handicaps. Demosthenes, who stammered, became the greatest orator of all time. Theodore Roosevelt overcame a physical weakness. Edison met his deafness in a philosophical manner when he decided that it protected him from tiresome conversations, giving him more time for work. His handicap may have been partly responsible for the great genius he displayed.
Compensating for inferiorities is a valuable method of making adjustments. However, over and under-compensation are both harmful methods of adjustment. The art lies, as it does in other things, in attaining a "happy medium." Over-compensation is seen in the superiority reaction—people putting on airs, trying to appear what they are not, the braggart, the newly rich. This is all detrimental, for it warps personality, makes one unpopular, and hinders progress. "The really superior, because they are superior in fact, have no need of pretense, and carry themselves and their possessions easily and inoffensively."
For most people "religion is the most available and most utilized compensation for tribulations and denials. It is not, as some suppose, the refuge of only the weak and the unerudite; it is the hope of all men, though viewpoints and practices vary with intelligence, training and individual experience.
"No matter how well endowed we may be by nature or circumstances, there are few, if any persons, who feel perfectly secure, who are fully content, who do not suffer from the shafts of life, who do not find the world bigger and tougher than they are; there is, too, always a sense of something missing, a longing for close contact with someone to whom one can unburden, who will supply the love, protection, and comfort we all secretly crave. Rarely indeed can such longings be appeased in the world we live in.... It is in religion that complete understanding, love, the righting of wrongs, the fulfilment of all the desires are promised; and since religion offers so much, consoles so many, and promotes individual and social welfare, it should not be lightly assailed."
In this problem of making mental adjustments, some people resort to fantasy and others rationalizing, both of which are unsatisfactory. "Often when people claim to be actuated by love of truth, justice, or the welfare of the public, their real motive is to obtain publicity, to cover up some inferiority of their own." Many persons who fail to find support for the causes they put forward find comfort in the fact that famous persons suffered similarly. "The fact that some famous persons have suffered is not sufficient reason for placing one's self on a parity with them. Fantasies are such easy and comfortable refuges from the world of cold facts and stern reality that persons who resort to them are in danger of becoming enslaved by them." To solve any problem we must learn to see it as it is, not as we wish it were. This is the only method that will bring happiness.
THE fascinating subject of popularity is discussed in the chapter, "Getting Along with People." "If we are to get along with people, we must first of all analyze ourselves and overcome our displeasing
 —FEBRUARY, 1941 SOME LITERARY FRIENDS
personality traits. For there is no person who has not some, although few of us will admit it." A fundamental principle behind this ever-recurring problem of getting along with people is to learn how to please others. Doctor Walsh says, "Anyone may become popular by acquiring the art of pleasing people."
To make friends, we must have a genuine interest in others and make a conscious effort to build up their self-esteem. We must remember constantly that one of the strongest sentiments is self-esteem. When we wound a person's self-esteem, we are likely to incur his anger and lose any kindly feeling he may have for us. This is particularly true with sensitive persons. It is difficult for the sensitive to realize that the fault is with them—that their sensitiveness is a form of selfishness, because they are concerned too much with themselves. "The remedy is less thought of self, more thought of others.... Persons who feel adequate are not always having their feelings hurt. They have the philosophy that no gentleman will insult them, no one else can."
In this business of making friends, there are some things which should not be indulged in. Flattery has no place. "It is the resort of the crafty, of bootlickers, who employ it in an attempt to gain something they cannot procure by merit. People who relish flattery are as inferior as the persons who feed it to them... The adequate neither use it nor do they desire it; if they express approval it is sincere."
Poor sportsmanship is a symptom of inferiority. When we feel sufficient, we play the game for sports' sake, not always to win. "The good loser is only a degree behind the winner; sometimes he is esteemed more highly."
Ridicule is often used by the inferior because a need is felt for posing as superior. This does not promote a healthy mental attitude toward life nor assist in making friends.
The final chapter on courage is of inestimable value. The author says we cannot escape the enemies of failure, disease, or poverty by running away. They must be met by our intellectual powers. Parental example is of paramount importance to children. The family should indulge in nothing that tends to make a child timid. On the contrary, parents should do and say the things that will develop a feeling of adequacy, equality, and self-confidence. To be successful, we must have both physical and mental courage, which will help us to develop independence and initiative.
"Courage is not the prerequisite of those who have strong bodies or great minds, nor does it consist in dauntlessly conquering the big issues of life out of which historical heroes are made. Rather, it is, or becomes, the possession of those who have stout hearts, who habitually stick to their ideals of what is right, who resolutely attack the small problems and vexations of everyday existence, and who, despite obstacles, carry on cheerfully, playing the game fairly, squarely, and as best they can, whatever kind of a hand life may deal out to them."
Read Doctor Walsh's The Inferiority Feeling, and see if you do not emerge "lifted up."
Quotations used by permission of the publishers, E. P. Dutton and Company. Price $2.50.