EXCERPTS FROM THE SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT As Published in The Improvement Era (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"I believe that no worthy young Latter-day Saint man or woman should spare any reasonable effort to come to a house of the Lord to begin life together. The marriage vows taken in these hallowed places and the sacred covenants entered into for time and all eternity are proof against many of the temptations of life that tend to break homes and destroy happiness." (April, 1936, page 198)
"I thank God from the bottom of my heart that I read the life of Nephi in my youth. I fell in love with him then, and his life has influenced mine for good more than that of any other character in ancient history, sacred or profane, save only the Redeemer of the world." (March, 1934, page 160)
"In all my labors I got nearer to the Lord and had more joy in the mission field than ever before or since, and the joy I experienced in the mission field was superior to any I have experienced elsewhere." (July, 1937, page 405)
"It is a God-given law that in proportion to the service we give, in proportion to what we do in this Church and out of it?what we are willing to sacrifice for the Church and for those to whom we owe our loyalty outside of Church activity?we shall grow in the grace of God and in the love of God, and we shall grow in accomplishing the purposes of our being placed here on the earth." (March, 1940, page 137)
"I am thankful for the Gospel, beyond all power with which God has endowed me to express my thoughts; for this is the Gospel, the glad tidings of which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us?that He came into the world, even Jesus Christ, to sanctify the world and to cleanse it from unrighteousness, and to save all the creatures of His hands, to save all except those that deny the Son after the Father has revealed Him. This Gospel is for all, and it helps all who embrace it with full purpose of heart to meet the stresses of life with courageous assurance." (September, 1939, page 521)
"Why is it that Latter-day Saints are enabled to convert people? It is because they have the truth to offer, because they have no doubt in their minds regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged." (September, 1938, page 519)
"If there is one thing more than another that I would like above all other things to impress upon young men it is a desire to find some labor, some work in connection with the Gospel of Jesus Christ, through which they can give something to this Gospel." (July, 1939, page 393)
"I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, I am convinced, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that no man or woman can fulfill any law of God but that he is bound to receive the blessing attached to that law. The Lord never forgets. The Lord never fails to bestow the blessing upon those who have fulfilled the law." (October, 1939, page 585)
"The Lord gives to many of us the still, small voice of revelation. It comes as vividly and strongly as though it were with a great sound. It comes to each man, according to his needs and faithfulness, for guidance in matters that pertain to his own life." (December, 1938, page 712)
"Every law that is given to us in the Church is for our own individual benefit." (December, 1939, page 713)
"But faith and knowledge without practice are of no value. All the knowledge in the world would not amount to anything unless we put that knowledge into actual practice." (June, 1939, page 329)
"May the Lord bless you, one and all, is my prayer for you. I thank God that I know we have the truth. I thank God that I know that He lives, that He hears and answers my prayers, that He guides me by His Spirit, that He gives me the inspiration of His Spirit to know what to do and how to do it for the benefit of His people here on the earth. I thank God for the remark made to me by President Joseph F. Smith?the last remark that he made before he passed on?'The Lord knows whom He wants to stand at the head of His Church, and the Lord never makes any mistakes.