Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 8
Home Training For A Mission (Tuesday, May 6, 1941)
"Go ye into all the world, preach the Gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." (Doctrine and Covenants 68:8)
ONE great mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to take the Gospel message to the world. Every boy in the Church expects some day to have this privilege, provided, of course, that he is recommended for a mission by his bishop and called by the Presidency of the Church. He goes without funds from the Church. In December, 1940, there were approximately 2,250 missionaries in the field, most of them young men.
The home can do much to prepare boys and girls for this great missionary work. Some of the qualifications and habits that can be cultivated in the home and which make for success in the mission field are: a knowledge and a testimony of the Gospel; obedience to the Word of Wisdom; habits of honesty, truthfulness, and faithfulness to duty; practice in praying aloud in the home and in expressing one's self clearly; sociability; a knowledge of proper etiquette; the ability to care for one's own clothing and to prepare a well-balanced meal; willingness to do one's share; and a sincere desire to be of service to others in carrying to them the Gospel message. A missionary cannot be sincere in his work without being benefited himself.
Home Discussion Helps
Most members of the Church would be in other lands or in other parts of the country if it had not been for the work of some missionary in bringing the Gospel to them or their parents or grandparents. Nearly all of us owe a debt of gratitude to the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Work-and-Business NUTRITION No. 8
Refreshing Refreshments (Tuesday, May 13, 1941)
"THERE are refreshments which refresh and refreshments which depress. Refreshments which are really refreshing are those which are light in calories, moist but not soggy, not too sweet, and which are quickly and easily digested. Party refreshments often constitute an extra meal for people who are already taking too many calories and who are already overweight. A person at age 50 who is 50 pounds overweight has his life expectancy cut down 50 per cent. It is easier to keep those 50 pounds off before the fiftieth birthday arrives than it is to get them off after age 50. The wise woman will not let her body become weighted down with too much fat. Cutting down on party refreshments is one way to cut down the surplus calories which will be stored as body fat.
Most of the food served at parties is very high in sugar, starches, and fat. Much sleep disturbance comes from eating rich, heavy foods served at parties at the midnight hour. A