Y Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XVII The Building of a Commonwealth (Tuesday, May 20, 1941) OW would you like to perform a little experiment that will help you in your study of this lesson? You live in a civilized land. But you inherited most, if not all, of the things which surround you in your town or state or nation. And now you are to learn how one of the important commonwealths in the United States was established. How was it done? How was your own commonwealth built up in the beginning? Suppose, then, you take a pencil and paper and set down one by one the things you think should go into the making of a commonwealth like the one you are living in. What would be the very first necessity? The second? The third? And so on. It would be better, of course, if you would join with some others to do this, for then you would have the benefit of their thinking and judgment. The items should be set down on paper, because that would impress them on your mind. This experiment would give you two benefits: first, it would enable you to understand and appreciate what is to follow in this lesson more than you could do otherwise; second, you would be in a better position to tell what is important as compared with what is unimportant in community life. Should you do what is here suggested, it would be better for you to do it before you read the rest of this lesson. ET us first get straight in our minds some of the facts concerning the early population of Utah, the new mountain home of the Mormon people. In the lesson just before this, you were told that during the winter of 1848-49 there were between four and five thousand people in the Salt Lake Valley. The population did not stay at this figure very long, as you may know, for there were tens of thousands of men, women, and children along the Missouri and between the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, waiting for an opportunity to go to the new home. But it was not advisable for them to go there too fast, for reasons which you can easily guess. Three companies arrived in the Valley from the East in the fall of 1849, and several companies during the following year. The immigration continued till all the temporary settlements on the Missouri River were abandoned. But it took many years to accomplish this, because as fast as one group left for the mountains, its place would be taken by converts from England, Scotland, and Wales. In 1849, for instance, eight ships, carrying 1,720 Latter-day Saints, arrived from the Old World. At first, of course, the immigrants came across the plains in covered wagons. 'This cost money, and many of the Saints were poor. So, in 1849, what was afterwards known as the Perpetual Immigration Fund was established. It had for its purpose, first, the removal to the mountains of the Saints exiled from IIlinois, who desired to gather to the main body of the Church, and afterwards to extend aid to the poor Saints throughout the world. It was called by this name because it was a revolving fund?loaned to and then paid back by the borrowers. Some of the Saints were even too poor to take advantage of this Fund; hence, handcarts were devised for use in crossing the plains. These cartied what provisions were needed, and they were either pushed or pulled.