Violets Are For Remembrance Carol Mattson Miay I relate my experience which happened because of my overwhelming success in following the instructions given by Irene Dunlap in her article '"'Let's Grow African Violets," . On the death of my sweet mother November 12, 1961, a dear and thoughtful neighbor presented us with a beautiful, blooming African violet. I gave it all the tender, loving care to which Sister Dunlap referred, until approximately , when I could see all my efforts were in vain and unless something was done, my plant would not live to continue to be a living tribute to my mother. (The Magazine to which I refer had not yet been received by me.) I am not one with a green thumb and do not have house plants, but I became attached to this little plant as it was an everyday reminder of my mother, so I wanted desperately to have it live. I took it to a specialist in the raising of African violets, supposing it would be no problem to get a start. After looking sadly at the plant, he remarked, ""There's no life left in this plant, why don't you just buy another?" I explained its importance to me and was crushed when he said, "They are just like people, after they get so old, they die, too!" I had only one plant, and more determined than ever I came home and cut the remaining leaves off and put them in water, hoping to get a start within a month or so, and when I had only one leaf left, my came and opened new avenues on plant culture to me. I followed the instructions on propagation to the letter, as well as I could with what I had left — one leaf! It has taken many months of tender, loving care, but I am now enjoying the fruits of my labor, and my plant has come into its own, and possibly this week it will blossom. There are several starts which I am going to take off as instructed. Yakima Stake (Washington), Yakima Ward Singing Mothers Present Program of Christmas Music, December 22, 1963 Front row, left to right: Edith Dyson, Evelyn Smith; Doloris Holden; Margaret Webster; Dorothy Throssell, chorister; Marie Peyton, organist; Edna Dearinger; Jane Wilks; Jean Rude; Barbara Blackhurst; Jeanette Bowman. Back row, left to right: Lynn Bos; Connie Creek; Olga Paradis; Mabel Brack; Joan Balholm; Carole Clifton; Luella Howell, President, Yakima Ward Relief Society; Margaret Nichols; Rosemary Coalwell. LaVern G. Jackson, President, Yakima Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Singing Mothers of Yakima Ward presented a program of Christmas music, December 22, 1963. At this time the Christmas story was told in scripture and song, narrated by Archie Buys. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for the Yakima Stake service held on Christmas day. These Singing Mothers enjoyed their weekly practices and look forward to presenting the music for sacrament meeting each month." Southern States Mission, South Georgia District Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Seated: organist Gertrude Robertson; next to Sister Roberston, standing: Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District Relief Society; at Sister Henry's right: Mary Joy Crouch, conductor of the chorus. Rene Welch, fifth from the right on the front row, and MarDean Bell, ninth from the right on the third row, are counselors to Sister Henry. Elva G. Ravsten, former supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "These sisters have furnished music for many occasions — district conferences, inter-faith socials, and just recently for the district Relief Society conference. They are a very happy group, and they love to sing. Many have been inspired by the beautiful music they have rendered. Sister Robertson is indeed an inspiration to the sisters. Her many years of studying and teaching music are now being shared with this group of mothers. Avis Waters is the assistant conductor. Avis and Mary Joy are daughters of Sister Robertson, and they have furnished duets and trios for many funerals, as well as church meetings. The Southern States Mission is very proud of these sisters, as well as of the Singing Mothers in all five of the districts throughout the mission. These sisters love the gospel, and they love to share it with others." The new supervisor of Relief Society in the Southern States Mission is Mamie Priscilla Adams Hunsaker. Clearfield Stake (Utah) Poster Display Sets Theme for Visiting Teacher Convention, February 7, 1964 Left to right: Ora Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society; Opal Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Barlow reports: "This spiritually rewarding visiting teacher convention used as a theme "Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants— Jewels of Strength.' Beautiful music was rendered by the Singing Mothers under direction of the stake music department, with Mary Blood and Evelyn Butler as directors. "The poster display set the theme for the convention. It was prepared by Opal Wood, and represents the eight visiting teacher messages for this year. The messages are presented in poster form, with corresponding pictures, along with a miniature model of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as shown in the shadow box, praying in the sacred grove, depicting the channel by which all the revelations were given. "Sister Mary Ann Adams, who is eighty years old and has been a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years, was honored, and also her granddaughter Carol Adams Kilburn, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. All visiting teachers who have served for more than twenty-five years were also honored. At the close of the convention, a delicious luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters." 530 + CON, Egy, Scottish Mission Visiting Teachers at Convention March 14, 1964 At the right, former mission presidency: standing (wearing white sweater), Rachel Wilde, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Easton, Counselor; seated: Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former President; right of Sister Farnsworth (front): Elizabeth McKittrick, Counselor. Sister Farnsworth reports: "A delightful convention and social honoring the visiting teachers of the Scottish Mission was held March 14, 1964, at the mission home. The sisters who attended felt that this was a great success, both in spirit and in numbers present. Most of the sisters present were newly called to serve as visiting teachers. Representatives from most of our twenty branches enjoyed the program and received valuable instructions. Members from each branch present participated in the program which consisted of a tribute and a response; a play 'The Improper and the Proper Ways to Do Visiting Teaching;' 'The Key,' a parable of visiting teaching; a question and answer game on visiting teaching; musical numbers; and the film 'Unto the Least of These.' As a special favor, a daffodil corsage (buttonhole) was pinned on each visiting teacher. Refreshments were served. The mission board members were hostesses for this convention." Ruby Mildred Haight, wife of the new mission president, David B. Haight, is the present supervisor of Relief Society in the Scottish Mission. Bonneville Stake (Utah)