LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature (Textbook: Out of the Best Books: Objective: For Third Meeting, An Anthology of Literature, Part |—The Individual) To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. You may learn through trial and error to become a competent seamstress without formal instruction—for an ill-fitting jacket is a powerful spur to improvement, and experience does teach. But no one ever created a lovely, satisfying dress who did not understand the principles of good sewing. A mere awareness of the characteristics that a well-mado garment should have is no guarantee that you can make one to match your ideal. It may, however, give you a feeling of security when you are trying to decide which of two suits is the better buy. You can teach yourself to recognize real value through trial and error, but it is an expensive and frustrating process. How much better to be instructed by someone who will share her own experience. The young woman who has been taught by her mother in basic principles of clothing selection and care is truly fortu- 546 nate, for this is a continunig responsibility which she cannot escape as a wife and mother. The ability to judge excellent fabric or shoddy construction comes with experience. No one is born with it. All must learn to compare and evaluate. The satisfaction, however, which comes from knowing that you can discriminate skilfully in both making and buying clothes for yourself and your loved ones is a deep and abiding one. Actually, of course, comparing and evaluating are necessary in all that we do, but sometimes we fail to see this clearly—especially when we are dealing with intangibles. It is hard to discern a feeling or a quality, and for this reason most of us can talk more easily about material than _ spiritual things. But this does not mean that we can neglect to develop spiritual awareness. It is not enough that we have vague spirit- ual aspirations. Our eternal salvation depends upon our ability to make precise choices. While it may demand real effort, spirituality can be developed, and the lessons which are provided each month in Relief Society are eloquent testimony that spiritual discernment can be developed. DEVELOPING LITERARY SENSITIVITY A similar sensitivity needs to be developed in considering literature, and it, too, can be both taught and learned. The trouble here is that we do not think it important to discriminate precisely in literature. We are reluctant to accept a sales clerk's glib description of a dress without trying it on and checking its construction. We also recognize the profound necessity for each person to work out his own spiritual salvation, but we may be content to read non-religious books' uncritically or sit by while a teacher talks about literature. Perhaps we think that because we are reading or listening only for enjoyment that we can be passive and undiscriminating. Such an attitude is frightening because it is just while we are in such a passive state that we are most susceptible to influence. We are also apt to be overawed by those who tell us what various literary works mean, and we are tempted to let others make our literary judgments for us. This is both unnecessary and unfair, unfair to the authors and works we study and, most of all, unfair to ourselves. We lose the growth which critical development brings. No vague appreciation of literature provides this. We must learn LESSON DEPARTMENT to discern, to become critics, in order to help ourselves and our families to choose the best guides for life, and few influences are as potent as the material we read. FOUR MAJOR CRITICAL METHODS The first section of the text for this year gives a detailed account of the four major critical positions which you will need to be aware of if you want to develop critical sensitivity. The discussion there is mildly technical in order to provide the background for the basic understanding of critical theory. You can become a competent critic—and know the thrill of being able to make your own judgments—if you focus on the method which each position stresses. A. Emphasizing the Message. The first approach emphasizes the message of the work. It is referred to as the Platonic method, after the Greek philosopher. What does the poem or story say to you? Since what the poem seys to you will be determined, in large part, by what you bring to the poem, you find yourself judging it on the basis of your experience and beliefs. If the poem is about nature, and you bring a deep love of nature to the reading or hearing of the poem, it will mean more to you than to one who doesn't share your enthusiasm for the out-of-doors. It may well mean something to you as a Latter-day Saint that it will not mean to fricnds of other religious faiths. The standards which you use in evaluating this poem are set by your experience and convictions before you begin reading. Let us illustrate this in examining a poem by this first approach: THE CROSS OF SNOW In the long, sleepless watches of the night, A gentle face—the face of one long dead— Looks at me from the wall, where round its head The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light. Here in this room she died; and soul more white Never through the martyrdom of fire was led To its repose; nor can in books be read The legend of a life more benedight. There is a mountain in the distant West, That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines Displays a cross of snow upon its side. Such is the cross I wear upon my breast These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons, changeless since the day she died. The poem is obviously one of loss, the loss of a loved one who apparently died by fire. While you have not had an exactly comparable experience you probably have lost, by death, someone very dear to you. You reflect that your loss also took place long ago, but it is still vivid, and you appreciate the author's symbol of the cross of snow—with all its suggestions of suffering — for it describes your own feelings well. Faith in a hereafter, however, partially tempers your sorrow, and you do not quite identify with the despairing tone of the concluding lines. This poem appeals to anyone who has experienced the death of a loved one, but you would have to share the author's religious convictions, which do not appear very hopeful here, to identify with this poem totally. B. Finding Critical Standards Within the Work. The second approach stresses the form of the work rather than its message and requires some knowledge of literary types. It is often called the Aristotelian method, after Aristotle, pupil of Plato. This approach focuses on the form in which the poem is written. Let us demonstrate this by considering the same poem we looked at earlier. You still do not care who wrote it, but you do care about its structure and the relation of part to part in the poem. You note immediately that it is a sonnet. You check to see if the poem is unified by a strong but single emotion, and find that it is. You also note that the author has handled the two-part nature of the sonnet well. The first eight lines develop the situation; the last six give it symbolic and memorable expression. The images are consistent and precise. The author's constant guarding of a saintly memory is conveyed effectively by such words as "watches," "halo," ''benedight," and '"'changeless." The suddenness of the catastrophe is beautifully illustrated by the uninterrupted phrase from the middle of line five to the middle of line seven. And nothing is more impressive in setting the despairing tone of the poem than the position given the word changeless in the last line. Coming as it does, it forces you to emphasize it, and in so doing leaves exactly the impact necessary to conclude this tightly controlled poem. C. Emphasizing the Author. The third approach tries to illuminate the work by considering the author and the background of the poem. This is often referred to with reference to the name Longinus, a Greek philosopher, and emphasizes research. If we consider the conditions under which a poem is written, we may be able to understand allusions and references which would otherwise be obscure. The author's experience may add richness to our interpretation of his work. If we look at the same poem we have been examining, we need to know immediately that the author is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and that he is writing in memory of his beloved wife whose dress caught fire from the candles of the Christmas tree. Although Longfellow tried desperately to smother the fire, and received severe burns himself, he was not able to save her. With the possible exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain, no wellknown American writer had a happier marriage than Lonegfellow. He adored his wife, and her death seemed to him to have a terrible appropriateness in that she died as so many other saints had done—by fire. The fact that it occurred near Christmas was also suggestive to him and probably helped in the choice of his concluding symbol—the cross. D. Acknowledging the Verdict of Time. The fourth position is a very practical one, named after Horace, the Roman. It suggests that you check to see what other people have thought about the work you are examining. If a poem continues to be read and discussed year after year, if it gives pleasure and inspiration to succeeding generations, it cannot LESSON DEPARTMENT be discounted whether it seems to qualify for praise under any other position or not. Unfortunately, this approach cannot be used with much success to evaluate contemporary works. We need the perspective of time to compare and evaluate by this standard. Even the eighty years which have elapsed since Longfellow wrote "The Cross of Snow" are not enough to know whether it will truly last. We do note that it ls appearing more and more often in anthologies today, while some other poems of Longfellow like "The Village Blacksmith'— once extremely popular—are rarely reprinted. Perhaps, in conclusion, the use of these four approaches can be effectively illustrated by considering The Book of Mormon. Under the Platonic method we can check the "message" of this work by standards which we bring from our study of other scripture. No book, not excepting the Bible, is better able to defend itself on the basis of what it has to say to all Christians than The Book of Mormon. From the Aristotelian point of view, that is evaluation on the basis of form, The Book of Mormon is equally impressive. Its title page states clearly what it claims to be, which is essentially Hebraic history. We need to be aware, however, that Hebraic history ls a very special kind of account. To the Hebrew, history is God's dealings with his chosen people, no more, no less. It is not recorded to satisfy curiosity; it is written to change lives, to bring its readers to a knowledge of God. Theology, therefore, is presented in answer to human problems. Digressions on philosophy, geography, economy, or any other concern which does not specifically reflect God's dealings with his people are rare in any Hebrew history —and they are just as rare in The Book of Mormon. If we take the standards by which we judge from the work itself, this book is precisely, and triumphantly, what it claims to be. At first glance, the abridged nature of much of The Book of Mormon would seem to make reference to particular writers in it unusually difficult, but real persons can be seen in looking at the different writing styles of such small books as "Enos" or "Jarom." As an example, consider the headlong impetuosity of Enos. His verbs are particularly vivid: "sunk," "cried," "swept," 'did pour out," "labored." Contrast this with calm, exacting Jarom. Unlike Enos, he is very careful with his diction. Note his description of the Lamanites in verse six. How careful he is to give us their attitude as well as their actions. They not only killed; they "loved murder." There is an authentic ring to these statements. These are such actual people that when Jacob tells us "'to be carnallyminded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal,' we can almost hear him say it. He is as real as our own beloved leaders today. Although the Book of Mormon has been in print for fewer than 150 years, demand for it has never slowed. By Horatian standards— which insist that the test of time cannot be discounted—The Book of Mormon is doing very well. When generations yet to come find this book significant, The 550 Book of Mormon will have passed its ultimate critical test as a literary work. SUMMARY The important thing to remember about this lesson is that anyone can begin to become an able critic of literature if he recognizes the necessity for discernment and works at developing his critical sensitivity devotedly. You simply begin where you are. To start, don't worry about what the author means; (1) find out what his work means to you. Then (2) try to see how the work is put together; look for the ''recipe"' of the poem or story. (3) Add to this, as you are able, information about the author which will give richness to your analysis. Then complete your development by (4) seeing what others have said. Throughout the lessons which follow we will try to demonstrate the use and significance of these methods. They should help you appreciate President McKay's comment that "the value of good reading consists, first, in selecting good books and, second, in seeing clearly what is_ therein written." Questions for Discussion 1. Why is it necessary to be "critical" of literature? Why won't simple appreciation do? 2. What is the special strength of the first critical position for Latterday Saints? 3. What is the danger of focusing on the life of the poet rather than on his poetry? 4. Note how beautifully such a work as The Book of Mormon stands up under the four critical approaches. Why, on the other hand, will most modern writings not be remembered a hundred years from now? to follow. His acceptance of the Father did not come _ simply through delivering a message and teaching truth. It included a dayby-day performance of the principles of eternal life. He tested out the reality of the first and second great commandments — love of God and love of fellow men. He placed the great stress on service. In his growing to maturity, Christ went through the usual experience of living with people; he participated in church services; he exercised his trade; he met people in a business way and had his place in a family. His mother pondered in her heart (Luke 2:19) all the things that happened in relation to his divinity for he was the Son of God. THE IMPORTANCE OF LEADERSHIP Christ's example of leadership set the pattern for all men, and, particularly, for the Church in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. He knew the sorrowing and suffering of all the people. He healed the sick, raised the dead, and counseled people in their struggles, both temporal and spiritual. He personally stood the test of temptations in the areas of the greatest human weaknesses, the craze for power and wealth, the urge of the appetites, and the test of faith and humility in relation to the use of the power of God. The Savior's living testimony of his teachings is of major lmportance in this lesson. The simplicity of his teachings and living makes his example one which each member of the Church can emulate. The effective functioning of the Church government depends upon a lay leadership. The responsibility of each 552 member is to be prepared in the divine pattern of leadership. Essential to this is a sense of dedication to the great principles that Christ exemplified in his life. President Rudger Clawson once said, "When the men holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 111.) The Church organization, as we know it, is the structure or instrument through which the Priesthood or power of God can function, but the proper and effective functioning of Church government depends upon the degree of righteousness of the people involved. No ornamentation of the physical structure of the Church can substitute for this. LEADERSHIP DEFINED Leadership is the key to the successful functioning of the Church organization. <A_ leader is commonly referred to as a person with the ability to visualize, organize, and energize. In plain words, a leader must have vision, be able to see relationships and implications of the course being proposed. He must be able to develop organization sufficient to meet the demands of the objectives involved, and must have the energy to stimulate the members of his group to action. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the leader must also have the spiritual quality necessary to communicate with divinity and receive divine guidance in his particular assignment. Great leadership in the Church comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation. Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ. DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel. In every human contact, in business, in recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full knowledge, knowing the right and the LESSON DEPARTMENT wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelations of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his _possibilities. There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior. Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day. THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's claim to acceptance in the Church is based on this sound principle. Church standards are the same for all members whether it be in family relations, in activity on a social plane, in dealings in business operations, or in participation in Church opportunities for service. The action of an accepted member of the kingdom must be motivated by love, guided by wisdom, tempered with justice, consideration, and kindness. He must perform his service with a sincere desire for the improvement of others. LIVING THE GOSPEL Madame Marie Curie, a very famous scientist, discovered and applied a method of extracting radium from raw ore. She was able to secure the first ounce of this precious metal. Its dollar value was fantastic and she was poor, but she dedicated her findings to the welfare of mankind. She gave her ounce of radium to the medical profession to be used in the treatment of human ills, an example of true service for the welfare of mankind. Such outstanding examples of dedicated service can be found in many different fields. Others of less magnitude can be observed in various areas of everyday life. The importance of such examples is to illustrate that human beings are capable of the pattern of conduct Jesus exemplified in every moment of his life. He was the perfect example of human living. There is ample evidence to show that behavior such as he exemplified can be performed by all of us, not occasionally or by chance, but regularly and by choice, recognizing the value of such behavior. Honesty is a habit and virtue grows out of it. Being honest with oneself in relation to the standards and values that have formulated one's philosophy of life, is essential to virtuous living. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the standards and values come from God and are contained in the divine law that directs the Church. SUMMARY As previously pointed out, divine law is the counsel of God given to provide direction in the lives of human beings that will assist them in the development of their greatest possibilities and lead them toward perfection, and in the direction of Godhood, man's greatest potential. The function of Church government from the beginning of time has been to give direction to human association. How to live together successfully has been the major emphasis. In the city of Enoch the people achieved perfection enough to be translated. The people "were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them" (Moses 7:18). All the sons of Adam had been taught the basic principles of right living, but evidently only the few in Enoch's city put the principles into practice. Another example is found in The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi, where the people accepted the divine way of life and lived together in peace for 200 years. Sacred literature is full of suggestions for right living. There are many who have knowledge of the facts of divine law, but until they apply the principles in their lives, they will not produce right- eousness. To the degree that we live the teachings of the Savior, to that degree will we become perfect in our human relations and thus become different from the world. The function of Church government is to produce a standard of behavior like that of the people of Enoch, and the Nephites in 4 Nephi, and to develop the perfection in human conduct patterned after the example of the Savior. "Be ye doers of the word." THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Do the principles of the gospel interfere with the things you enjoy doing? 2. Is there a difference in your religious behavior and your regular activities in life? 3. What is the relationship between your religion and effective participation as a citizen? 4. In what way were the people of Enoch's time or the people in 4 Nephi different from us? References New Testament, the Four Gospels The Book of Mormon, 3 Nephi; 4 Nephi Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:18 NOTES ON AUTHORS OF LESSONS Dr. BRUCE B. CLARK Mik. Bruce B. Clark is Professor of English and Chairman of the English Department at Brigham Young University. Now forty-six years old, he was born in 1918 in Georgetown, Idaho, the son of Marvin and Alice Budge Clark, and a descendant of four pioneer families — the Clarks, Budges, Woolleys, and Athays. Perhaps most notable among his ancestors was his great-grandfather, William Budge, the young Scotch missionary instrumental in converting Karl G. Maeser to the Church. (Karl G. Maesar was called by President Brigham Young in 1876 to organize the Brigham Young University, and William Budge was for many years the LESSON DEPARTMENT President of Bear Lake Stake and of the Logan Temple.) In 1935 Brother Clark was graduated from Montpelier High School in Montpelier. Idaho. He then attended the University of Utah for three years before interrupting his education to serve a mission in the Northwestern States from 1939 to 1941. Following this mission, he returned to the University of Utah to graduate with a B. A. Degree in English in 1943.