     "THE STORY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON," just
issued by Elder Geo. Reynolds, is unique in its
originality, and will certainly enhance the value
of that wonderful book, which forms the founda-
tion of the work; a book that seems to have
troubled the enlightened world so much, because
of the manner of its coming forth, as also its pe-
culiar style, and the general character of the
work itself, and its striking similarity to the
Hebrew Bible. The "Book of Mormon" has
been a source of discomfort and of anxiety, so to
speak, from the time when it was first announced
that Joseph Smith had discovered some gold
plates in a hill near Palmyra, until the present
day.  It has been one of the most important fac-
tors in the history of this Church, and wherever
the name "Mormon" is heard the story of that
wonderful book is told in one form or another;
generally so sensational and highly-colored and
so far wide of the truth that it seems strange
that people do not know that the tale is false.
However, at last, after sixty years, a story is
actually told on the subject that can be relied
upon. The familiarity of the writer with his
theme is well known to the people here, and he is
certainly able to present the subjects he describes
in a manner that will be attractive and entertaining
to all who read for the sake of obtaining true
knowledge. The book is handsomely illustrated.
The first picture is a copy of the painting, "Jesus
Appearing to the Nephites," by Wm. T. Armi-
tage, in the Logan Temple; "The Vision of
Nephi," "The First Sacrifice On The Promised
Land," "Babylon," "Nazareth," "Discovery of the
Records of the Jaredites," "The Vision of
Limhi," and other illustrations descriptive of the
book, forty-two in all, must intensify the interest
of the literary work. We have not yet had time
to read the book sufficiently careful to be able to
review it properly, but feel much interested in the
subject matter of the work. It is handsomely
bound and certainly presents an attractive exterior.
The book contains nearly 500 pages, and the

[Column 3]

typographical part of the work is excellent. After
having perused the book we shall give a more ex-
tended notice, and in the meantime we trust it
will have, as it certainly ought, a wide circula-
tion. Price, cloth binding, $3.00, leather, $4.50.


