NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe is said to be in
better health now than she has been for years,
and walks quite readily with the aid of a
cane.
	Lady Jane Henrietta Swinburne has en-
tered her ninetieth year. She is mother of
the poet and critic, Algernon Charles Swin-
burne.
	The Evelina de Rothschild School for Girls
at Jerusalem has been opened under the di-
rection of Mlle. Fortuee Behar. It has more
than four hundred pupils.
	The Governor of Massachusets has ap-
pointed Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells to the place
on the State Board of Education left vacant
by the death of Miss Abby W. May.
	Miss Abby W. May left $5,000 to the Home
for Aged Colored Women, $3,000 to the
Gwynne Temporary Home, and $1,000 to the
New England Hospital for Women and Child-
ren.
	At the regular monthly meeting of the ex-
ecutive committee of the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Association Dec. 7th, the
following was unanimously adopted:
	"In the death of our friend, Abby W. May,
woman suffrage has lost a wise and faithful
advocate, and higher education an experienced
and devoted friend. She gave twenty years
of heroic effort for the slave, five years for the
soldiers in camp and hospital, more than
twenty years for the legal and political equality
of woman. Her example will be to us an in-
centive; her memory an inspiration.—Ed.
	Talk about the trials of genius in endeavor-
ing to make itself known to a cold world! The
truth is that nowadays in these United States
there is hospitality to new writers which often

[Column 2]

becomes ludicrous in its eagerness. Authors
of common place abilities spring into sudden
prominence through no fault of their own;
and there is no danger that any writer who
possesses the least spark of originality will be
overlooked. There is no Chatterbox business
going on now. What is most needed is a
higher standard of literary taste and less spas-
modic enthusiasm.—Ex.
	A horrible occurrence is related as having
taken place at Erie, Pa. Mrs. William
Savory and Miss Lucy Stinson were bosom
friends. Miss Stinson died, and Mrs. Savory
insisted upon impressing a last kiss upon the
lips of her friend. She did so. But the un-
dertaker had just treated the face with a pre-
paration for preserving the color. Mrs.
Savory was infected, and subsequently died
from blood poisoning—a most remarkable in-
stance of the folly of a custom that has noth-
ing to recommend it but sentimentality, and
everything against it in the light of sanitary
laws and the doctrine of common sense.—Ex.
	Mrs. Cleveland has succeeded in raising one
hundred thousand dollars in order to rebuild
Wells college, the female institution where
she was graduated. It is situated a few miles
from Ithaca, N. Y. It was destroyed by fire a
few months ago. The trustees had given up
the prospect of rebuilding as impossible, when
Mrs. Cleveland came forward and gave the dis-
tressed institution her personal attention. She
not only contributed a large sum of money
herself, but she circulated a paper and induced
others to subscribe, until money enough has
been raised to rebuild the college in better 
style than it was originally.—Ex.
	"God and the Women in American Public
Affairs" was the suggestive heading of a ser-
mon preached Sunday, Dec. 16, in Tremont
Temple, Boston, by Rev. Emory J. Haynes. 
He said:  It was the influence of the woman
in the home, by the breakfast table, over the
father and brother, that was the one factor in
the last municipal election which did more
than any other to win the victory. We have
our publicists and politicians, but it is to the
women we must look for the future of the
country. That is what did it—the influence of
home. These same home influences are going
to continue at all the municipal elections. That
is the great power of women. Woman, I be-
lieve in you! The records show that the
criminals are five men to one woman. To be
pure and self-sacrificing comes to women more
naturally than to men. We believe in you
because you have led men in the Christian
church. I hope you will help us to right a
thousand wrongs.—Ex.


Women have more strength in their looks
than we have in our laws, and more power by
their tears than we have by our arguments.—
Savile.
	In a truly good character we look, first of
all, for integrity, or an unbending regard to
recitude; then for independence, or the habitual
determination to be governed by an enlight-
ened conviction of truth and duty; then for
benevolence, or the spirit of kindness and
good will to men; and last, but not least, for
piety toward God, or an affectionate, reverent
regard for the will and glory of the great
Jehovah.—Hawes.


