EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Circleville met
Friday morning, Dec. 7th, 1888, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Sarah A. Morrill presiding. Singing,
"Oh, ye mountains high." Opening prayer by
Bro. D. S. Gillies. Singing, "Beatiful Zion."
Remarks by Laban Morrill; Select Reading,
Emma Morrill; Recitation, Edna Dalton, en-
titled, "Propitious Friends," Song, Nellie
Parker and Clara Gillies, entitled, Swing-
ing;" Select Reading, Louie Whittaker; Reci-
tation, entitled, "My Mother's Bible" Denna
Nielson; Song, Alice and Celia Thomas.
	Prest. Sarah A. Morrill felt greatly encour-
aged to see the children taking so active a
part; hoped they would continue to improve.
	Bible Questions answered by Effie Dalton
and Permelia Morrill; Song, Jennie Parker
and Mary Whittaker; Recitations, entitled,
"Don't run in Debt," Dora Morrill; Essay on
"Character," E. M. Fullmer; Speech, Willie
Dalton; Song, Julia Rubey; Speech, Ozro
Fullmer; Dialogue, entitled, "Poor Work Don't
Pay," Mozetta Smith and company; Questions
on the "Life of Joseph Smith," answered by
Virginia and Caroline Peterson; Recitation,
Rhoda Gillies; Select Reading, Alma Nielson;
"Grandma's Birthday was then recited by
Blanche Parker.
	Coun. S. S. Sudweeks made some interesting
and appropriate remarks.
	"The Blind Man's Appeal" was recited by
Addie Morrill; Song, Lettie Fullmer; Dialogue,
entitled, "Slang," by C. R. Dalton and com-
pany; Remarks by Bishop J. E. Peterson.
Singing. Benediction by J. Simkins.
		ADDIE MORRILL, Sec.
	Circleville, Dec. 17, 1888.


Margaret Deland is said to have rewritten
"John Ward" six times before it was given to 
the printer.
	The New York Tribune says:  "Women are
studying medicine in England in thorough
earnest.  At the recent examinations at Lon-
don University, ten of the nineteen passes for
honors were taken by women.  In anatomy
they took three of the six honors.  In physiol-
ogy they secured four out of six.  In materia
medica only did they fall behind, and even
there they got three of the seven honors.  In
the face of such a record the opponents of
medical education for women are feeling a
trifle uncomfortable."


