TO MY SISTERS:
	I wish you A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year!  In all our varied circumstances as
Saints we have a right to acknowledge the hand
of God in all things.  This encourages and
strengthens us in our labors in the Relief Society
at this time; it makes the hearts of the poor re-
joice through the diligence and thoughtfulness of
those who minister to them in doing good, being
in harmony with our worthy bishops; the teachers,
both male and female, find the needy and see that
none lack for the comforts of life, and thanksgiv-
ing ascends to the Father, instead of the cries of
suffering.  We have had no paupers formerly, and
the absence of saloons and places of refuge that
follow intemperance, which belong not to Latter-
day Saints.  We are compelled by law now to
submit to some of these.  The United States
think the precepts of the Bible too good for Mor-
mons to practice, they must only believe; these
things make us sorry; although over eight hun-
dred true wives married for time and all eternity
(for death ends all matrimonial covenants in this
world at present), we will wait and call upon our
Heavenly Father for aid, for strength (for the
means accumulated for the support of the family
must go for fines), to rear the children in the path
of honesty and uprightness, and to teach them to
honor our God-given constitution.
	Knowing it is truly a religious conviction that
prompted the acts of fathers and mothers to take
upon themselves the heavy responsibilities of
large families, and the knowledge that we have
received the Holy Ghost through obedience, as
the Bible directs, let us not grow weary, but be
faithful unto the end, in doing good and loving
our sisters "as ourselves."  Mothers, our beauti-
ful, healthy, loving children, cherish them, for
they are gifts from God.  Under these peculiar
and trying conditions, fonder are the affections for
the darlings, and as the family circle is the center
of bliss and sunshine in time and eternity, let us
enjoy the home.
	As all, even those who persecute us, are our
Father's children, we can pity all mistakes; those
that come through misrepresentation, and all, even
 our worst enemies, we pray for, and while the
merry Christmas rung through all Christendom, 
how little did the world think of the loving hearts
that are wrung in prison, innocent of wrong doing,
and of the desolate hearts and hearthstones in
Utah.
	Here women are organized and have power to
do much good; it will show some joy and honor
too.  May we ever be true to the trust and confi-
dence bestowed upon us; bridle the tongue; by
ceasing to speak detrimentally of any, for all
have a portion of infirmities, and there is ever
room for improvement, and by extending mercy,
it is promised to us.  Read a little each day, my
dear sisters, if but ten minutes, and we will lay up
treasures of knowledge, besides mental and
spiritual strength for performing our daily duties,
and these are the first consideration.  The monthly
visits of our ever faithful teachers are a great bless-
ing to the Saints; these are our special representa-
tivesin the kingdom of God, with the sister teachers.
May they ever be endowed wtth wisdom, discern-
ment, and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit,
that none may suffer, and may they ever have
wise counsel to comfort the afflicted.
	The counsel given us from the brethren of the
Apostles a few days since was for the sisters to
continue their good works, as Sister Eliza and her
Counselors, with others, had done and had taught


in the past; we ever hope to improve, until we are
perfect in every good word and work in the sphere
we are called to act in. Sisters, continue in sav-
ing wheat; if it needs renewing it can be loaned
to the presiding Bishop, or by the Bishop of the 
ward being responsible in writing.
	Wherever the brethren can take time to visit
and encourage the sisters there is a great differ-
ence in their prosperity and growth.  We did not
call ourselves to these labors of love, but we are
willing and desirous to do what is required; we
wish to hold our meetings and conferences regu-
larly as heretofore, that we may improve.  Can
our time and means be more profitably spent than
in becoming better acquainted with each other, 
by strengthening confidence, encouraging faith,
and purifying our thoughts?  And may our joys
increase as each year unfolds its pages to write
upon; may they never be blotted with unkindness
or regrets.
	That the bright sunshine of peace may ever be
and abide with us, is the sincere prayer of,
		Your sister and co-laborer,
						Z. D. H. YOUNG.
	P. S. Again to my dear sisters, A Merry Christ-
mas and A Happy New Year.


