EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—After a long silence I thought
a few lines from this remote corner of Utah
would not come amiss.
	We are having very peculiar weather,
stormy, sunshine, then storming again. Good
health prevails, except colds; peace and pros-
perity everywhere apparent.		
	As I have been absent most of the summer
I will give a short sketch of our journey. We
left home July 13th, 1888, traveled by team
to Springville, where my sister resides, and
spent the Twenty-fourth at that place. It was
very nice, indeed, but the dinner for the old
folks was the most tempting part to see, the
sumptuous table seated with our aged brethren
and sisters was a beautiful sight to behold;
their cheerful faces and dim eyes shone with
delight and sparkled as the viands were passed
by pleasant and tidy young waiters, eager to
do their best for the aged; although not one of
the number, I was all the more delighted to
have the privilege of looking on. After the re-
past and a recess came the fun of the enter-
tainment, which was creditable; also speeches

[column 2]
and toasts, with singing, some appropriate bal-
lads.
	On the 28th we took the afternoon train on
the D. & R. G. for Price, which place we
reached at half past six o’clock, and then a
ride of 25 or 30 miles to Huntington, where
our daughter resides, to visit her. The scenery
through Spanish Fork Cañon was beautifully
grand. The station at Price was not as large
as I expected to find it. We arrived at Hunt-
ington at half past 11 o’clock; all our friends
were well and pleased to see us. We prolonged
our visit here 12 days, but unfortunately it
rained most of the time, which put a stop to
our rambling about much. Huntington is a
flourishing town, and bids fair to be a large
city in the future.
	On the morning of the 8th we again returned
to Price station, and took the 8 o’clock
train for Pueblo; it being night we had no
view of the country, but as day dawned we
were astir to see the country we were whirling
through. Some parts looked rather barren; as
we neared the streams it became more fertile,
and as we climbed the mountains to Marshal
Pass it was grand to behold, and a wonder how
a road could be made for the iron horse to
climb such a mountain, and the beautiful little
stream, Crystal Creek, how sparkling it was
on its course. All through Grand Cañon it is
wonderful, and there are many nice little spots
inhabited by busy people. On we are carried,
until we reach Pueblo, at half-past 8 at night;
here we have to lay over till 4:20 in the morn-
ing, when we take the Atchison Topeka & Santa
Fe route for Deming. We pass over the
barren plains of Colorado, through cañons,
over trestles that span the wash out; they look
rather toppling for such a heavy, long train to
cross; here we are surprised to see the native
Mexicans and their homes scattered along; the
train was divided to climb the mountains of
Colorado; at the top was a long tunnel; when 
we passed through it we were in New Mexico.
Here we met another train waiting for ours to
come through. A stop of twenty minutes
here for dinner, and away we go down; much
faster than we came up. We begin to come to
grassy plains and meadows and herds of stock;
they looked much better than the cattle in
Colorado. The Mexicans become numerous;
also their huts, for such they appear to us;
some beautiful country, nice streams and fields
of corn and beans, and occasionally an onion
and pepper patch. We pass through Alber-
querque at midnight. The stations are small
all through this country, or towns, as they
should be called. We follow the Rio Grande
a long way; it is a shallow, muddy stream; the
bed seems to be mostly quicksand; fine large
cottonwood trees grow along its banks.
	At Rincon we change cars. The passengers
are a motley crew, from the American to the
negro; in one car I observed five different
nationalities, and such a clatter; a keen ob-
server of the physological would have an ex-
cellent opportunity to read character in the
faces.
	We reach Deming at 3:30 p.m.  The
weather is delightful for the 11th of August
in the south, with a nice breeze to cool the air.
This is quite a busy little place, noted for its
wind mills, as that is the only means of ob-
taining water; some fine buildings, dwellings
and stores; the American custom house is here,
but few gardens or trees; everything brought
here by rail, and very reasonable prices. At
this place we were met with carriages and
teams to take us to Diaz, 95 miles.
	On the 13th we start in the evening; the
roads are level and hard, the twilight most
delightful, and evening air cool and grass in
abundance; splendid country, with many
strange sights, and afar off are the grand old
mountains. We pass several  wind mills, that
are used to get water for the herds of cattle


[Column 1]

that range over the wide plains. We camped
here at night; had a shower, not much, but re-
freshing; had supper and a good night's rest;
up early, and travel again after the usual
round of breakfast and putting things straight
for the day. Now we are amongst the moskeet
bushes, also the cactus of various kinds, and
beautiful flowers of lovely hues. We now
come to the Casas Grande River and noon; we
are delighted with the many varieties of
foliage, and gather some wild grapes, while the
birds make a terrible chattering, for fear we
might take all; the curious turtle is seen
here. We meet the first Mexicans traveling,
an old wagon, two yoke of cattle, one horse,
the whole family of a dozen; and then to drive
the team, two on one side and one on the other,
several children in the rear following. We
soon come to the guide; he accompanies us the
remainder of the way; camped with us. Next
morning, Aug. 16, we halted opposite Diaz.
Our son, the Bishop, came and took me to
Diaz, while the rest went to La Ascension to
pass through the custom house, all arriving at
12 o'clock in the little settlement of Diaz,
where we were kindly greeted by friends and
relations, and to rest after our long, tedious
journey.
	After a week in Diaz, I will try and describe
the secluded settlement a few Latter Day
Saints away in this far off land.
	The streets are laid out as our cities are
usually. Main Street runs North and South,
with shade trees of cottonwood on either side,
and a water ditch on each street. The garden
abounds in all kinds of vegetables; including
the delicous water melon in abundance; also
fruit trees and flowers of gay gorgeous hues,
that make the paths look lovely with an eye
to home adornment. The houses are built of
adobies, very large ones, also the fences and
out-houses mostly. The weather was not so
warm as we expected to find it; the nights
were cool and pleasant. We took a trip to the
upper settlement G—— W—— among the
mountains; three days travel over beauti-
ful country, passed several Mexican towns very
comically built and laid out. Their churches,
their mode of worship was explained to us, all
of which seemed very singular and simple. In
the town is a fine building built for our
dear departed brother, Apostle E. Snow, and
also many nice houses, fields, gardens, and
orchards, with the beautiful river Casas Grande
running through it; we spent six days there
with warm friends, and feasted on sweet potatoes
and melons, and returned home through as de-
lightful a valley as I ever saw, and passed the
first place the Saints settled and had to leave.
We caught fish and duck; and had the pleasure
of seeing the majestic century plant growing
in its native state and beauty. We felt well
paid for our trip around. I must say some-
thing of the ruins; we passed one town all
in ruins, it looked so lonely; also some very
large ruins which appear to have been a temple
centuries ago, and many mounds on being
opened are found cooking vessels of an extinct
people, curious shapes and various sizes. On
our return we were surprised to note the growth
of the garden and shade trees. Our stay in
Mexico was seven weeks; when we left our
dear ones to return, children and grand-children,
our sons and others came to Deming with us,
a journey of four days; we came a different
route back home, we had the pleasure of seeing
more country. We returned from Deming
as we went; the weather was stormy part of
the way. At Alberquerque we saw the Pueblo
Indians, and bought grapes, peaches, and
apples of them. We reached Salt Lake City
Oct. 15th, made a short visit there, and left on
the 24th of Oct. for home; arrived Nov. 9th,
well satisfied with our journey and visit to old
Mexico. At each settlement I was pleased to
see that the little paper EXPONENT was highly

[Column 2]

prized by the sisters. There is a Relief Society,
Primary and Y. L. M. I. Association in each
settlement, and I was told that they were
well attended, and all seemed to be alive to
their duty; health seemed to be apparent every-
where; molasses making, and haying, all
seemed to be full of business, as always is the
case with the much abused "Mormons."
	With kind regards and success for the
always welcome little valuable EXPONENT, I
remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
