BY-AND-BY

Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies
In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hill;
The home-bound swallow, twittering as he flies,
Makes silence seem more still.

The shadows deeper grow, and in the woods
The air a latent sweetness holds in fee;
An odor faint of yet unblossomed buds--
So like, dear heart, to thee!

Far distant in the soft, cerulean deep,
Where the horizon bounds the nether world,
Great ships becalmed, like brooding birds asleep,
Lie with white sails loose furled. 

In peace the day is ended, and the night
Falleth as doth a veil upon the sea;
Along its bosom come with swift-winged flight
The gray mists silently.

O anxious heart, how Nature speaks! Her power
How leisurely she uses! How intense
The infinite peace of her most fruitful hour!
How soft her influence.

Time hath she for her storms to sweep the main;
To rock the tree-tops with her winds of wrath;
To bring forth fragrance in the summer rain;
And time for snow he hath.

So, dear, for all thy eager soul desires,
She keeps sweet times and seasons. In her mood
Is hid for thee all passion's subtle fires,
To round thy womanhood.

Cease, then! and in this dewy twilight, move
As one who asks not whither, cares not why:
This gift for all holds still the eternal love—
God's endless by-and-by.
	—Primitive Methodist.


[Column 1]
WINTER PLEASURES.
Another New Year!  And, notwithstanding
the persecutions heaped upon this people, and
the rigid enforcement of the Edmunds-Tucker
bill, generally speaking prosperity and peace
are found in the homes and habitations of the
Saints in these valleys of the mountains.  Some
families are separated, some fathers and hus-
bands are suffering imprisonment for con-
science sake, and others are exiles from home
and its joys and pleasures, but the consolations
of the Gospel more than compensate for all,
and there is much to rejoice over, for Zion is
prospering, and the light of prophecy tells us
there is nothing to fear; it is proper and con-
sistent to enjoy the present. It is a time for
happy greetings;  the interchange of kindly
feelings between relatives and friends.  It is
also a fitting time to bestow material favors
upon the needy.  King Winter has shown his
most magnificent gray, and frosty beard and
wrapped his flowing, snowy robes around the
summits of the lofty hills, and the heavy
[Column 2]
garment reaches far down over the beautiful
valley.  Now is the season for recreation and 
winter enjoyment, the respite from outdoor 
labor; and the merry jingle of the sleigh-bells
keep rapturous time to the music of glad young
hearts.  Young men and maidens view this
time of leisure and social intercourse as most
propitious in promoting matrimonial engage-
ments.

"Learn to win a lady's faith
Nobly as the thing is high;
Bravely, as for life and death,
With a loyal gravity.
Lead her from the festive boards,
Point her to the starry skies;
Guard her by your truthful words,
Pure from courtship's flatteries."

	One revels not so much in thoughts of 
nature as in the fireside pleasures.  The home,
the hearthstone, the bright cheery fire; these
are appreciated now.  The warm, cosy corner
and comfortable easy chair are the luxuries
sought after and indulged in most.  The bright,
heavy curtains fall gracefully over the frosted 
windows; yes, frost work on the glass, what
skill can equal it?  Imitate it as the artist may,
he can never compete with the Great Master
in this classical legendary picture-making.

"As by some genii's quaint device."

	The glowing fire on the clean swept hearth-
stone, which throws over all objects in the 
room a luxurious warmth, is specially inviting,
and almost without being aware of the inclina-
tion, one sinks into a profound reverie, where
lights and shadows blend into fantastical pic-
tures and the imagination revels fancy-free in
the realms of waking dreamland.

"Well may dreams present us fictions,
Since our waking moments turn
With such fanciful convictions
As make life itself a dream."

These hours of momentary rest from active
labor by the winter fireside are a sort of peace-
ful relief to mind and body, and give oppor-
tunity to recuperate after the long protracted
toil of the more laborious months.  There is a 
little time for the renewal of old friendships
and agreeable associations, which strengthen
the affections and make life more desirable to
all.  Such reunions and awakening of latent
feeling in the human breast, bring into exer-
cise those attributes of the soul that help to 
make us more like Him, who said, "Do unto
others as ye would that they should do unto
you."  We all like attention and courtesy
from others, though we may be neglectful in
rendering it.  Yet methinks, we should take
time to be loving and gentle, and respectful
and sociable, for after all we make people
better if we make them happy.  Times of fes-
tivity, jollity and innocent mirth are good for
us all.
	We are all one great family, and it seems
essestial for us to become well acquainted with
each other.  In mingling together socially, we
usually see people in their best light, it brings
out the finest expressions of the individual's
real self.  Business and the cares of life,
which oftimes press heavily upon the mind,
making one appear to great disadvantage, are
momentarily cast aside and scope is given to
the higher impulses which beautify the soul,
and possess a greater charm than wealth or
any of its material pleasures or advantages.
Life is only short at best, and while it is our
duty to provide for our temporal wants, it is
not good, or beneficial to stifle the affections,
the kindly feelings of the human heart, which
are more truly elevating in their character than
the wealth of the Indies.
	We talk a great deal about cultivation,
about excellence of attainments in these days,
but the culture which refines most is that 
which touches the heart; and those attainments
are most excellent and most desirable, which
inspire us with courage to perform life's duties

[Column 3]
acceptably, and these include, in a great de-
gree, love for all mankind, and many cour-
tesies to and much charity for our fellow be-
ings.  Those who associate largely with their
 fellow-men are the highest types of character, 
possess the greatest magnanimity, are more
ready to forgive a wrong and have fewer
rough edges or sharp corners that need toning
down and modifying.  Consequently such men
and women are the ones, who are the most at-
tractive to those whose perceptions are not 
dulled or blunted by evil.  I believe that our
Father in heaven is pleased when we come to-
gether in social entertainments, where there is
order and harmony. All our relations with 
each other as a people should be characterized
by purity of purpose and a desire to benefit
and bless others as well as ourselves, and in
doing this we are entitled to the blessing of God
upon our efforts.
	The pleasures of the winter season are of 
such a nature that some are very apt to indulge
to excess, and then they pall upon our senses
and we are ready to declare them all vanity.
Dancing is one of the pastimes that is greatly
abused; in moderation it is good and tends to 
grace and ease of manner, which is an accom-
plishment that adds much to the deportment,
and is certainly desirable; the music of the 
ball-room and the motion of dancing is, more
especially to the young, like enchantment. It
bewilders and dazzles them, consequently if
left to themselves, they frequently ruin their
health by over indulgence; and yet a little 
amusement of this nature is healthful and 
beautiful.  To enumerate all the amusements
adapted to the winter season would be impossi-
ble, but suffice to say, there is an abundance
for old and young, and we should not neglect a
reasonable amount of pleasurable enjoyment,
for it is invigorating in its physical tendency,
and in its moral tone, elevating.  The great
difficulty is to exercise discretion in these mat-
ters and keep within proper bounds.
We are apt to overdo things that we like, to
neglect weightier matters that are not so pleas-
ant in their nature.  But this is the season to
enjoy the song, and the dance, the fireside
winter tales, music and conversation, those
charms that give such zest to home-life, and
that are such potent influences in renovating
society when rightly applied.  Our young peo-
ple have the most advantageous opportunities
at the present time to improve, yes, to excel
in those things that make home delightful and
their society everywhere attractive and enter-
taining. Reading is one of the pleasures of
winter we should not forget to class among its
enjoyments.  And a careful selection of books
or papers is an essential matter.  After read-
ing, converse together in the home, at the table
or the fireside upon the subjects, and you will
find it a fruitful source of pleasure, and a
great improvement of one's conversational 
powers. 
	I have a picture in my mind of a large
family, seated around an open fire-place, in a
very unpretentious living room, the table
loaded with nuts and apples, a few books with
homely well worn binding, plainly showing
they had been often used; some old-style musi-
cal instruments were there, the young people
are now singing, old-fashioned, simple ballads
to amuse father and mother; there was no blaze
of chandeliers, only the glimmering, fitful light
of the pine-knots, which always brings out such
weird shadows that remind one of Macbeth's
witches.  By and by when the trilling of the 
fresh young voices died out, then the young
folks said, now it's your turn, father or mother,
tell us a story of when you were young, how
it was you fell in love, for it must be a love
story, mind, and the simple but truthful story
was told by the winter fireside as effectively as
if it had been presented on the stage in a melo-
drama.
