SEVENTIETH ANNIVERSARY.

	On the 29th of December last, 1888, Sister
Sarah M. Kimball reached the seventieth anniver-
sary of her birth. Sister Kimball has in many
respects been a remarkable woman, and at the
present writing is as brilliant in mind, and as
capable of mental activity as she was at forty.
She has had some experiences calculated to de-

[Column 2]

velop her best faculties for thinking, planning,
and suggesting; but aside from this development
she has much originality which has been a marked
characteristic of her career in life.
	It was at Sister Kimball's home in Nauvoo that
a few sisters belonging to her own neighborhood
met together at her suggestion, to consult as to a
plan for combining their means and efforts to
form a Ladies' Society, with a view to assist in
the building of the Nauvoo Temple. Out of this
little nucleus thus called together in Sister Kim-
ball's parlor has grown the organizations of
women that exist in the Church to-day.  It was in
this wise. The ladies invited, met and decided
to organize; Sister Kimball was delegated to call
on Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was then engaged
in teaching in the family of the Prophet, and ask
her to write a constitution and by-laws, and
submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to
the next meeting appointed for the following
Thursday. Sister Eliza cheerfully responded, and
when she read them to him he replied that the
constitution and by-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you
want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of
the Lord, and He has something better for them
than a written constitution. Invite them all to
meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic
Hall over my store, next Thursday afternoon and
I will organize the sisters under the priesthood
after the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organized
until the women were thus organized."
	Most of our sisters already know the result of
this organization, and are familliar, by reading,
with the teachings of Joseph Smith to the Relief
Society in those early days.
	When the Relief Society was organized in the
Fifteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, Feb. 7th 1857,
Sister Kimball was elected President and has re-
tained the position ever since. Under her wise
and judicious management, the Society in that
Ward has flourished temporally, and much posi-
tive good has been accomplished by it in many
directions. The record of the work upon the
books, and the written reports from time to time,
tell this story, but they do not tell all. The com-
forting of the sorrowful and afflicted, the minister-
ations to the sick and dying, and the many deeds
of loving tenderness wrought by the sisters in
this and other organizations are not to be seen of
others, but they are doubtless recorded on high.
	Sister Kimball has been a widow for over
twenty-five years. Her husband was drowned in
the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of the San Pedro on
his way to the Sandwich Islands.
	Sister Kimball has the honor of being the first
woman to lay the corner-stone of the first Relief
Society building erected in this dispensation.
She thus describes it:—
	November 13, 1868 a silver trowel and mallet, were
furnished me, and, assisted by a Master Mason,
and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I
had the honor of laying the corner-stone of the
first Relief Society building erected in this dis-
pensation.
	At the time of the organization of the Central
Board of the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R. 
Snow the President-elect chose Sister Sarah M.
Kimball as the Secretary of that Board, and she
was set apart to act in that capacity by President
John Taylor, July, 17th, 1880, at the same time
that Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was set apart to
preside over all the Relief Society in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The two
Counselors to the President were also set apart
at the same time, Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney. After this was
done Sister Kimball was set apart as secretary
and received the following blessing from Presi-
dent John Taylor.
	"Sister Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the

[Column 3]

name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by virtue of
the Holy Priesthood I set thee apart to the office
of Secretary of the Relief Societies in Zion; to
record important events and keep a faithful re-
cord. Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready
writer. Seek more earnestly for the Spirit of the
Lord, and thou shalt be blest more than thou
hast ever had power to conceive of. As thou
hast been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to
be preserved. I seal upon thee thy former bless-
ings, and thou shalt be honored in time and in
eternity, and have a seat in the celestial kingdom
of God, in the name of Jesus, Amen."
	Sister Kimball has faithfully fulfilled the obliga-
tions thus placed upon her in keeping the records
of all important matters and events pertaining to
the organization, and still continues to labor in
the performance of the duties of the calling to
which she was set apart; and though delicate in
her physical organization, she seems likely to re-
tain her powers of activity, and to be able to fill
the responsible positions with which she has been
honored many years to come. That she may
be preserved in the full possession and enjoy-
ment of health and powers of endurance in body
and mind, to advise, assist and instruct, those who
have had less experience in the sphere in which
women are now called to act, is sincerely to be
hoped for by all who favor Zion. The writer ex-
tends her most hearty congratulations to Sister
Kimball, wishing her length of days, peace and
prosperity.
		E. B. W.


