			WEBER	STAKE.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, held in the tabernacle in Ogden City,
Dec. 13th, 1888, Mrs. Jane S. Richards pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing, "Come let


[Column 1]

us anew." Prayer by Bro. Gale. Singing,
"May we who know the joyful sound."
Minutes of the preceding conference, were
read by the secretary and unanimously adopted.
	Pres. J. S. Richards was thankful for the
pleasure of meeting again in conference.
Was glad to see so many present; had visited
quite a number of the branches of the Relief
Society throughout the county, and had en-
joyed a goodly portion of the spirit of God,
and listened to many faithful testimonies from
the sisters. Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us to-day, to build up and
strengthen us in our holy faith.
	Pres. Zina D. Young felt we had met for a
renewal of the Spirit of God and prayed we
might receive it. Had noticed the same hum-
ble, kindly, Godly spirit filled the brethren in
prison, that did those who were laboring in the
Temples, and it was a proof that God was
well pleased with them and comforted them
abundantly with his Holy Spirit. Warned
the sisters against harboring the spirit of fault-
finding. Compared our trials to traversing a
canon which seemed that therewas no way out,
by, by faith and perseverence came through all
right; she had never lost faith in the silk business
in Utah; hoped to see it revived and prosper
under the management of the Saints. She
knew that faith in God and this Gospel was
daily increasing in the hearts of the Saints;
prayed it would continue.
	Sister Martha Bingham had been absent for
six months, but thanked God for the blessing
of returning. Had felt it quite a trial to have
our husbands imprisoned, or exiled, but knew
if we lived right, God would be with them and
with their families, and bless them abundantly
with His Spirit.
	Bishop R. McQuarrie was anxious for all
who came to meeting to hear the voices of the
speakers distinctly, that their hearts might be
filled and warmed and renewed with the Spirit
of God. We should seek to cultivate the
same spirit that inspired and animated our
brother Jesus Christ. Exhorted all to attend
to their prayers continually. Spoke of the
great good the Relief Society was doing; ad-
vised the sisters to work more earnestly in
saving wheat, and obeying that counsel given
to them on this subject by Pres. Young and
others.
	Sister Sarah Richards had a strong testi-
mony of the truth of this Gospel, and had
enjoyed it for many years. Was glad to see
Sister Young and others of our sisters, here to
advise and talk with us, and hoped each one
would go home filled according to their hearts
desire. Had never doubted that Pres. Brigham
Young was the inspired successor to Joseph the
Prophet, for she heard his voice and saw his
countenance reflected in him.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt that this was the
best day we had ever seen, notwithstanding the
clouds which often hover over us. She was
pleased to hear the brethren and sisters encour
age the saving of wheat, for there was no
danger of our storing away to much, for we
are told to seek out all the poor and needy no
matter what creed or color. Said we should
cultivate a spirit of charity and faith, especially
in our children; and made other remarks calcu-
lated to encourage the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Sister Emily Shurtliff felt it was necessary
for us to arouse ourselves from our seeming
neglect in regard to storing grain; was glad to
hear the subject revived and dwelt upon by
the brethren and sisters.
	Singing, "Come all ye sons of God." Prayer
by Bro. Dye.
	2 p.m.  Meetnig commenced by singing,
"Hail to the brightness." Prayer by Bishop
McKye. Singing, "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah." Opening remarks

[Column 2]

by the President, Mrs. Richards. Reports
made.
	Sister Eliza A. Tracy reported the Society
in Huntsville in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Adeline Belnap gave a favorable re-
port of the Hooper Society, said they had been
doing all in their power to assist in erecting a
meeting house in that place; had also visited
many sick, etc.
	Sister Jeannette Bingham of Wilson Ward,
bore a faithful testimony, and gave an encour-
aging report of their Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells, said it seemed to fall to
her lot to speak upon more practical matters, though
she desired more to be spiritually minded
thought it our duty to do all in our power to
allay the prejudice against us in the world;
explained a blank which had been received
from the Woman's National Association for the
signature of all those who believe that women
should vote on equal terms with men in all
political affairs. Gave some very good instruc-
tions on various subjects of importance to this
people. Spoke of the many benefits to the
suffering, obtained by upholding and sustaining
the Deseret Hospital.
	Sister Herrick spoke a short time expressing
her pleasure at meeting in the conference, and
bore a good testimony.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she hoped the
sisters would work in unison with our brethren
in the priesthood. Advised mothers to observe
the Sabbath and teach their children to do the
same; "take special care in teaching the youth
good manners, self sacrifice and humility.
Let us show the world we are noble, true
women in every respect. When we become
pure and good enough God will open th way,
and the world will know that they have not
judged us any more justly than the Jews did
the Savior."
	Coun. C. F. Middleton, said he loved the
Latter-day Saints throughout the earth, and
desired to see them grow in purity and grace
before God.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards loved to listen to the
brethren and sisters on all occasions. "The
days of our conference are not long enough,
for we would like to hear from all if there
was but time." Urged upon the sisters the
necessity of laying up wheat, and of providing
means for the Hospital, also subscribing for
our own paper, the EXPONENT.
	After singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning," benediction was pronounced by,
Bishop Allred.
	MATTIE B. CANNON Stake Sec. R. S.


