CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	The beautiful story of the birth of Christ,
and of the shepherds keeping watch over their
flocks by night, the earnest looking out for the
star in the East, to welcome Him, all these
historical events, and others therewith con-
nected, cannot be too strongly impressed upon
the minds of our little ones.
	To many of the children nowadays, Christ-
mas is simply “Santa Claus,” who brings them
toys and sweetmeats, and the birth of Christ
never enters into their minds; the cause of the
rejoicing is never told them in a way they can
understand. They do not know why "peace
and good will” prevails, they have not heard
the incidents of the birth of the Messiah,
which all this social festivity commemorates.
	"The hallowed anthem sent to hail
	Bethlehem’s shepherds in the lonely vale,
	When Jordan hushed his waters, and midnight still
	Watched on the holy towers of Zion's hill."
is all Greek to them.
	The gathering together of friends and of
families at this season gives it a prestige and
importance that is real to the children, and
they know and feel that the day and the time
is significant, but they know not why and the
lesson is lost to them, that might otherwise be
fraught with good fruits.
	The legend of Santa Claus is a very pretty
illusion, but it falls far short of the exquisite
tenderness of the story of the true origin of
Christmas. The custom of giving gifts at
Christmas had no doubt its beginning in the
giving of gifts at the birth of Christ.  The
wise men of the East, who had seen the star of
Bethlehem, came and opened their treasures,
and presented unto the newly-born babe “gifts,
gold and frankincense and myrrh;” and this
example has been followed—of giving, and the
practice perpetuated from generation to genera-
tion, and it is right and proper that we should
fulfill the saying of our blessed Lord: "Inas-
much as ye do it unto one of these my little
ones, ye do it unto me.” We have not the
privilege of giving to the royal Prince of the
house of David, but we all have the precept
of our Master to teach us to give our good
gifts in the season thereof, and if we do this in
obedience and reverence, and that we may be
like unto Him, we should not fall short of the
blessing.
	The poor are at the Christmas season the
especial recipients of the bounties of the rich--
and there are many who quiet their consciences
by so doing; but is this all? Does this cover
the ground? Is there not something we owe 
to each other besides the simple act of giving!
Christ’s coming proclaimed “peace and good
will,” which does not always follow the giving
of precious gifts; it is often very easy to give,
when kindness and love would be infinitely
more of a sacrifice, and more acceptable unto
Him, who gave Himself a sacrifice greater than
any we can make. Is it not very often like
the prayer of the Pharisee, to be seen of men?
Let us hope not, but is there not a spiritual
lesson for us all to learn by the observance of


[Column 1]
the Christmas season, as well as to feast upon 
the good things of the earth and laugh and be
merry withal.
	It is a time of sentiment, a season of affec-
tion, when we recall the past, and don the
garment of love, in  which occasionally we find
sad rents have been made. There are changes
in our lives that seem more apparent when the
heart is awakened by the ringing music of the
present, and we find "parts unfilled and voices
wanting," and we find ourselves involuntarily
saying,

"Would they were with us still!"

Such feelings will arise even though we are in
the midst of gaiety, and we unwillingly and
unwittingly contrast the past with the present,
and thoughts of the loved and lost, the distant
and the dead" come something like,

"A pall—
And a gloom o'ershadowing the banquet hall,
And a mark on the floor as of life-drops spilt,"

darkens the joyousness and the revelries of 
the merry Christmas time. So many changes
have the years brought, that the words of the
poet come home with a deep and awful mean-
ing.

"A change he may find there, and many a change!
Faces and footsteps and all things strange!
Gone are the heads of the silvery hair,
And the young that were, have a brow of care,
And the place is hushed where the children played!"

Now to me the children are the ones to be
first considered at Christmas; it is the birth of
a child we celebrate, and we are told that the
kingdom of heaven is likened unto a little
child, and also, that unless we become thus
meek and lowly we cannot enter there; but
these are solemn thoughts, that we cannot al-
ways cast aside, not even for the children's 
sake, and tho' Christmas brings merriment
and good cheer, it has also its sober side, and
no picture is complete without it. If we al-
ways reveled in sunshine we would never know
how lovely the twilight was, and the darkness 
in which we grope at midnight, makes us ap-
preciate more fully the dawn of the new-born
day. Children feast themselves at Christmas
time, and romp, and play, and laugh, and sing,
and dance, and sometimes even grow weary 
with excess of gladness and exuberance of
spirits. It is well, methinks, to mingle a little
soberness with all this festivity and joyousness,
and to relate a story that will touch them in a 
tender place cannot be amiss, if it will teach
them to feel another's woe.
	I promised to write a story for the children,
and I am almost sorry that I did, but I like to 
keep my word, and so I will, even if it is
against my after-thought.

	It was Christmas time, and the snow lay
very deep upon the frozen ground, and the 
bells upon the horses were ringing out joyously,
as the sleighs glided up and down the streets
of the city. Mirth and festivity seemed to
reign triumphant everywhere; but when joy is
at its height, sometimes sadness falls like a 
solemn pall, and so it was this Christmas time
of which I write. The children had hung 
their stockings up on Christmas eve, and Santa
Claus had filled them to overflowing with good
things—it was a happy household—and there
had been much longing and expectancy be-
forehand, and wondering among the children,
of what Santa Claus would bring them, and
especially what choice and precious gift would
be bestowed upon the little one whose cross
had seemed heavier than infancy could bear,
whose life had been one of constant suffering, 
and whose patience and resignation was more
than mortal. The little pale, starry-eyed 
darling, with the thoughtful brow, the silken
hair, that lay so lovingly in rings upon it, and
whose gentleness shone in every feature of her

[Column 2]
beautiful, spirituelle face. She was first in
everything; the big, fat baby brother, with the
curls of burnished gold on his sunny brow,
was content to wait for papa's kiss, when he
came in, until his little pale sister had been
lovingly caressed. O, it was a happy family,
there, how could it be gloomy, for there seems
ever sunshine where the children are.
	But a shadow fell that day upon the happy
household, and yet it was as if the loving
Savior came and took into his own bosom the
little lamb, whose sufferings had been so pitiful.
Just when the dinner was announced, and the 
father and mother and all the little ones were
ready, an unseen angel entered, and the light
went out of that happy home, and the shadow
of death fell across its threshold. It had been
such a happy day, and now all was so changed
—a hush—a stillness brooded over all—the 
children knew not what to think; how could it
be that on this day of gladness for all the
world, such grief should come to them! It is
useless to attempt to reason with an excess of
sorrow; not until grief has spent itself is it
possible to be calm. And for children what
can one do? The little transparent hands
were folded, the soft eyes that had looked up 
so imploringly but a few moments ago, were
closed, and the long, silken lashes lay lovingly
upon the pale cheek, as we laid her down upon
the dainty pillow; the pure spirit had gone to
that better home, where no pain nor sorrow
could ever afflict her again. The children put
their toys away without a word; silence had
fallen upon all. The snow fell thick and fast
without and lay like a shroud all over the
valley. There were no songs that night, but
tears and sobs and piteous moans; but those
who realized what her sufferings had been
knew that she had entered spotless on eternal
years, and, "Oh, how much the best!"
	All day and all the long night, and another
day the snow kept falling, and when we laid
the little white figure down, it was in a valley
of whiteness, emblematic of her purity; and
the snow enveloped her grave with a mantle
of beauty. A white cross of marble now
marks the spot where the little suffering one
was laid to rest, that Christmas time; and all
the summer long the loving ones bereft, carry
flowers and lay upon the sod, in remembrance
of her sweetness and innocence, but when the
snow falls, it seems more fitting still in emblem
of her purity. And every Christmas time we,
who loved her so, remember how the shadow
fell upon our hearthstone, and our hearts go
out to all who suffer; all the more tenderly in
deeper sympathy, because of the great sorrows
that have come to us.
	
Nine years have faded since she went away
Nine years for her to live in heavenly places;
To learn the look of blessed angel faces,
Nine years to grow as only angels may.

"I wonder who of those that went before,
And those that followed in her shining way;
She has met there, in heaven's auroral day,
And if they talk their earth life o'er and o'er,

"I think this very morning they are met,
She and the other dear ones who have gone,
In some dear place in heaven secure and lone,
To talk of things they never can forget.

So we will think of them just as they were,
Their voices sweet and all their pleasant ways;
And thoughts like these shall help us through
the days,
Until we go to meet them where they are."

	I fear this is a sad story to tell children, but
it is true nevertheless, and I have told it you
just as the old year is dying, and when we all
grow more or less sober and thoughtful. And
whatever may be said of stories grave or
gay, it is fitting that amid the mirth and jollity

[Column 3]
of holiday time, one's thoughts should be occa-
sionally stirred by the experiences of the past,
"birth and death, marriage and separation, joy
and grief in all their familiar forms," knock
at every door and cross every threshold at one
time or another, but we feel heavy sorrows, keen-
est perhaps, in times of general rejoicing. The
lyre of human passion has been struck on all
its chords," and no life is complete that has
not tasted the bitter as well as the sweet. The
true poetry of life is not all like a summer
dream, but abounds in shadows, mysteries and,
perchance, occasional midnight darkness.
	And now on this the last night of the old
year with which we are about to part, many
tender recollections arise, and we are fanciful
enough to feel the influence of the season and
the time, and while we bid the old year good-
by and stand, as it were, waiting to welcome
in the new, we recall the words of Tennyson,
and repeat them here:

"Full knee deep lies the winter snow,
And the winter winds are wearily sighing;
Toll ye the church bell sad and low,
And tread softly and speak low,
For the old year lies a-dying."
	EMILE.
[Signed]  E. B. Wells


