TO THE EDITOR OF THE VANCOUVER WORLD:

	Sir:—I have first of all to congratulate you
on the success of your new venture in journal-
istic enterprise, a sample of which I am de-
lighted to receive. It is true your politics
would seem to have undergone some modifica-
tion—but what matters? Consistency, in these
days, is no proof of sincerity, while its oppo-
site is often redeemed by the noblest attributes
of patriotism. You must allow me, however,
to take exception to an article which appears,
under the head of "Horrors of Mormonism,"
in your weekly edition of November 1, though
I hope I am not expected to notice at any
length the strangely obscene talk of Mrs. A.
Newman, before an assembly of ladies in New
York. No wonder it elicited, as we are told,
"exclamations of horror from all parts of the
house." Such language and such allusions are
never heard among the Latter Day Saints, but
are common enough probably in the more
modern quarters of Salt Lake City, where the
"Missionaries to Utah," hook their fish and
call them "Mormons." To find such Mormons
it is not necessary for any one but a missionary
to go so far as Utah. We have some very
good fellows in the Northwest, who had earned
the playful prefix of "Mormon" long before
the arrival of the genuine stock. In Utah the
"Jack" or mock Mormon has a commercial
value, only to be appreciated by the despairing
missionary when his report is overdue. If the
putrid utterances of Mrs. Newman had one
grain of solid truth, I would assuredly quit the
priesthood and the communion of the Mormon
Church before the advent of another day. It
is the only church in Christendom, as far as I
know, where immorality of the laity, as well
as of the clergy, is punished by excommunica-
tion.
	Your assumption that I preside over the
Latter Day Saints in the Northwest is quite:
erroneous. Our President is Mr. C. O. Card,
a son-in-law of the late Brigham Young and
the first Mormon, as it happens, that I was
privileged to meet. Our church has no lack
of giants both in mind and stature, many of
whom are the product of our much decried
polygamy, and it would have been the most
ridiculous thing in the world had the local
presidency been assigned to an obscure monog-
amous born individual like the late member for
Comox.
	In another article you quote, with amusing
complacency, the last report of the anti-Mor-
mon Governor of Utah, in which he says:
"This priesthood not only rules the church but
governs the state, &c, &c." Well, and what
then? Will it surprise your readers to learn
that not a priest, bishop or president can be or-
dained or continued in office without the
assent of the people expressed by vote in open
meeting? Or will it stun you to hear that on
all such questions the ladies—the poor down-
trodden women of Utah—have an equal voice
with the men? If there is any church in Canada
where the ladies and the laity have more power
over their clergy, I shall be glad to hear of it

[Column 2]

	I would refer the candid inquirer to a book
of travels lately published by Phil. Robinson,
a Gentile, and a man of the world, entitled
"Sinners and Saints," (Boston: Roberts Bro-
thers).  No one can read the book without
feeling that the author is indeed a "seeker
after truth." He flatters neither sinner nor
saint.  Had he catered for either, his book
would have sold better.
	One word as to polygamy; and here I wish
to be understood that I am now speaking for
myself alone—not as a Mormon, but as a man.
Everybody knows that the criminal element in
bigamy is the deception which is practiced on
one, and sometimes two, of the three parties
interested. Among the Latter Day Saints,
polygamy can only be contracted by all who
are concerned in it. I have still to graduate
in mohogamy; but when I have once attained
such eminence, it is not the action or opinion
of intermeddling governments that will deter
me from seeking higher honors in matrimony.
As a free-born Briton, I shall certainly claim
equal rights with the Indian, Mahommedan,
and other subjects of Her Majesty. You will,
therefore, understand once for all, and quite
apart from any doctrine supposed to be taught
by Mormons, that monogamy, though consecra-
ted by centuries of triumphant error, is yet
very far from defining the creed or prescribing
the practice of your very faithful servant,
		A. MAITLAND STENHOUSE.
	Cardston, Alberta, Canada. Nov. 16, 1888.


