			VENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will meet in Washington, D. C., January 21st,
22nd, and 23rd, 1889, at the Congregational
Church, corner of G. and 10th streets.
	Delegates from all the states are invited to be
present. The question of uniting the two so-
cieties will be again under consideration, as the
resolutions passed at the recent annual meeting
of the American society, held at Cincinnati,
demand some action on the part of the Na-
tional Association. For this and other reasons
a large gathering of the friends of this move-
ment is desirable.
	For twenty years in succession these conven-
tions have been held at the national capital,
with hearings before committees of the Senate
and House judiciary, and able minority reports
thereon, which have been extensively circulated
throughout the nation, and thus a great educa-
tional work has been accomplished. We see
the effect in the extension of the suffrage to 
woman, and a growing interest on her part in
public affairs.
	In the presidential canvass just ended, women
have taken a more active part than ever be-
fore, and shown that they are by no means a
unit on political questions. For the first time 
large delegations of women have marched with
banners, in various processions, and spoken on
the platforms of different political parties.
	Neither among politicians, nor women them-
selves, is this in any sense a party movement.
While the prohibition party incorporated
woman suffrage in its platform, the Republicans
of Kansas made it a fact by extending munici-
pal suffrage to the woman of that state. The
Democrats of Connecticut on several occasions
voted for woman suffrage while Republicans
voted against it. In the New York Legislature
Republicans and Democrats have alike advoca-
ted and voted for the measure. In Congress
the last vote in the House was eighty Repub-
licans for woman suffrage, and four Democrats
against it, and not a single Democrat voted in
favor of it on the floor of the Senate. Both 
the Labor and Greenback parties have uni-
formly recognized woman suffrage in their
platforms. 
	There are movements now in the political


horizon pointing to the formation of a national
party in the near future, combining the interests
of labor, woman, temperance and other reforms.
Our strength for future action lies in the fact
that woman suffrage has some advocates in all
parties, and that we, as a party, are pledged to
none.
	The denial of the ballot to woman is the
great political crime of the century, before
which tariff, finance; land monopoly, temper-
ance, labor, and all economic questions sink into
insignificance, for the right of suffrage involves
all questions of personal and property rights.
	While each party in power has refused to
enfranchise woman, being sceptical as to her
moral influence in government; yet with strange
inconsistency they alike seek the aid of her
voice and pen in all important political
struggles, as shown in the late presidential
campaign. While not morally bound to obey
the laws made without her consent, yet we find
woman the most law-abiding class of citizens
in the community. While not recognized as a
competent part of the government, she is most
active in all great movements for education,
religion, philanthropy and reform.
	The magnificent convocation of women from
the world over, held at Washington last March,
a council more important than any since the
Diet of Worms, was proof of woman's marvel-
ous power of organization; and her clear com-
prehension of the underlying principles of all
questions of government. With such evidence
of her keen insight and executive ability, we
invite all interested in good government to give
us the inspiration of their presence in the com-
ing convention.
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Pres.
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE, Ch. Ex. Com.
