DEAR HOMESPUN:
	My first letter written to you on Aug. 10th,
was in fulfilment of a long cherished promise
to myself, and since eagerly perusing your
reply, memory has been busy with reminis-
cences you so vividly awaken; in retrospective
revery I recall each particular detail, and can
also picture quite plainly the improvements,
which must certainly have quite transformed
the rather depressing pretense of the old rooms,
in the days when I knew them. I remember
well the aged sofa, huddled in its musty depths
I read with joyous haste the first letters from
my dear home, after the long, heart sick jour-
ney; with tearful joy I sat for hours conning
and re-reading the loving words dictated by
anxious, affectionate hearts; there, too, side by
side with the natives of that land I have
struggled with the seeming impossibilities of 
their language, in our mutual endeavors to make
ourselves understood; and Sister Maggie Cluff—
I cannot think of my island life only in con-
nection with her—she it was whose kindly 
womanly kiss was the first to greet my lips 
after the parting embrace of my gentle mother,
and our last farewell was taken as she bade
"alolia" to those among whom she had so faith-
fully labored, and whose hearts she had so
kindly won; and I well remember the first
knowledge I had of her departure from earth,
was in recognition of her picture in your own
lines, entitled, “My Dead Friend,” written
soon after her death.	
	Memory also recalls the rides and rambles
among the luxurious fern foliage, in search of
orange groves, and lime trees, and on one oc-
casion a recently arrived missionary desired
the escort of an initiated sister, as guide to the
enticing groves, where the luscious fruit hung
in tempting plentitude, to the hungry imagina-
tion of a long-suffering appetite. The horses
were duly led to the door, equipped with
Spanish saddles, one of which the lady de-
clared her intention of riding in true native
fashion; with painful blushes and embarrassed
apologies the modest missionary disappeared
around the corner of the house, while the lady
with becoming grace mounted her steed and
laughingly called to her companion to forget
his discomforture in pursuit of delicious fruit
and beautiful scenery. Alack and alas for
manly prudishness! I wot not he hides his face
now at trifles, after a second sojourn under
tropical suns amidst those dusky children of
nature.
	I used to think so little ever happened to
us there, so monotonously the time passed
away, but now I remember many pleasant occur-
rences, and some happenings, too, the memory
of which is tinged with sadness and regret,
but even so much our life’s lessons be taught,
and the present will be richer in content, by
remembering the brightness and joys we have


had, while the shadows remain in the obscuri-
ties of the past, as much as may be.
	With alolia nui to your brave workers, I
am,
							AUNT POLLY.
	Dec. 16, 1888.


