A ﻿TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES.

	The need of competent and well-trained nurses
has long been felt in this community; and it is in
itself a department of labor that requires prepara-
tion. Training schools for nurses have been
established in all the large cities of the east, and
the practical knowledge on this subject thus ob-
tained has been fraught with the best results pos-
sible in this line of work.
	It is therefore with great satisfaction that we
announce the opening of such a school in Salt
Lake City, believing it will be beneficial in its re-
sults here as elsewhere.
	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, whose name is well-
known in the community as a successful medical
practitioner, has decided to open a Training
School for Nurses, on the 20th of the present
month, January, 1889. The Dr. has, while travel-
ing, in the United States and also abroad in
Great Britain and on the continent, visited the
principal training schools in large cities, and has
taken great pains to look carefully into the plans
and methods upon which such institutions are
conducted. She proposes to give lectures similar
to those of the Boston Training School for nurses,
and is thoroughly qualified for the teaching, and
has provided herself with the needful apparatus,
etc, the best charts, books and skeleton. All
who are acquainted with Dr. Hughes will feel as
we do, that she is competent by education and
training to give the necessary instruction, and has
the high moral courage and independence neces-
sary for the work she is about to undertake, which
will, if it succeeds, prove a blessing to the sick,
and perhaps save not only much anxiety, but
many lives. Doctors depend greatly upon their
nurses, and we all know what a comfort it is to be
carefully and skillfully tended, when there is sick-
ness, and the nursing is very frequently all that is
necessary, without medicine or the attendance of
a physician. Communications in regard to terms
and other matters should be addressed to Dr.
Mattie P. Hughes, corner First East and South
Temple St. or, P. O. Box 575, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]

