	"SALT LAKE CITY ILLUSTRATED" is a hand-
some work by D. C. Dunbar & Co., issued recent-
ly in Omaha. It contains, over fifty views of the
city from  various points, very fine cuts of business
and other public buildings and large and commo-
dious residences, churches, etc., taken correctly
from photographs. In addition to this there is an
accurate description of the city, its rise and pro-
gress, by R. W. Sloan. The book contains forty
pages, is of heavy paper, and the type and me-
chanical work in the very best style. It gives
the stranger a very good idea of Salt Lake City
and its environs, and will be a good thing to carry
a general impression of the beauty and outside
appearance of the town. The work shows com-
mendable enterprise, as well as possessing con-
siderable merit on its own account. For sale at
Dwyer's Book Store, Main St, 40 cts per copy.
	The Deseret News Company has just issued a 
paper entitled, "The Deseret Weekly."  It is in

[Column 2]

pamphlet form, a very suitable size for handling
or for binding; larger outside than Harper,s
Monthly, with three column pages, but only con-
taining thirty-two pages of reading matter. The
paper is intended to combine the current news as
a news paper and magazine, and may be properly
styled a journal. This first number is filled with
original articles from writers well known to the
community, and upon themes of interest to the
people here, and well worth preserving to be read
in the future as well as to send abroad to the
world. The opening of the volume is a poem
"Thought's Martyrdom" by the gifted poet of
Zion, O. F. Whitney, followed by "Ideas of
Government," by C. W. P., a subject upon
which much may be said educational to the peo-
ple. A story follows, opening with the saying
"Truth is stranger than fiction," signifying of
course that it is a true story and will therefore be
of greater interest to those who read it. "The
Relations of Life," by S. W. R., "Among the
Mexicans," by J. E. Talmage, "Curing a Cold,"
C. W. Stayner. "Spectacles a Necessity," by
Romania B. Pratt. M. D., "Holiday Changes," a
poem by Lula, characteristic of the times; another
by Mrs. Woodmansee, "Stand Your Ground,"
possessing the genuine ring of Mormonism. "A
Happy New Year," by Godfrey Williston Chris-
tine, contains much information on the subject of
New Year's in other ages and centuries etc.
"Martyrs to the Truth," Josiah Burrows. "A
Peculiar Race," B. F. C. Jr., "The Late Fair,"
Essay Caigh. "The Resurrection," a lecture by
J. E. Taylor, and other articles and miscellaneous
matter make up a very interesting number. The 
price per year, payable in advance, is $2.50, or
half year $1.50. Twenty six numbers will com-
plete a volume, as the fifty-two numbers would
not be a suitable size for binding. Success to
the new enterprise.

