[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Morals in Marriage and Christensen]
Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 12?Morals in Marriage and Family Relationships Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, March 26, 1946
Lesson Link: Last month's discussion centered around some of the social and moral problems of modern woman. It was shown that the trend toward woman's emancipation has resulted in some confusion and considerable immorality, but that it may also mean a real opportunity for moral development. There have been tendencies on the part of many women to prostitute their sex for the sake of personal advantage, which is a betrayal of both equality and morality. Woman's power over man is profound, and because of this she is given the special responsibility of guarding and guiding the moral advance of all mankind. Lesson aim: To analyze our most basic social institution from the standpoint of moral conduct, listing some of the common faults, and pointing out some of the principles necessary for correction. MARRIAGE is the gateway to family life, and the family is the very hub of social existence. It is here that people are most intimate, most impressionable to the influence of others, and most happy when things are going well. It is here that character is formed. But, despite the fact that the family is the most primary and the most basic of all social institutions, it is in trouble; and one reason for this trouble is the moral degeneration spoken of in earlier lessons. Family stability depends upon moral integrity, and moral integrity depends upon family stability. The two are interrelated, and any deterioration in one will cause a breakdown in the other, which in turn will reinfect the first, so that the two will become locked in a vicious circle of decay and disorganization. And this is exactly what has been happening. For the sake of character we must preserve the family, and for the sake of the family we must preserve character. It is to this end that the present lesson is written.
Pre-Marriage Ethics
The period of boy-girl adjustments prior to marriage is usually spoken of as courtship. Here we have a whole series of experimental friendships, personality testings, and habit adjustments. The primary purpose of courtship is preparation for marriage; preparation through interchange, choice, and adjustment.
Since courtship is essentially a relationship involving two or more persons, it follows that this relationship in which the setting of each is forever kept in mind, and immoral where either one or both become selfish and exploitive in their attitudes and procedures. A successful date from the moral point of view is one that is mutually enriching. In order to save space we will forego any detailed analysis of this problem and will simply list, with brief comment, some of the most common deviations from moral courtship:
(1) Poor sportsmanship. Many young people are too immature and infantile in their behavior, too easily hurt, too quick to take offense. Instead of being broad-minded and considerate of their partner they remain unreasonably jealous and selfcentered; instead of respecting the personality and moral standards of the other, they coax, tease, banter, drink, or indulge in other ways.
Many young people are too selfish. They should take themselves less seriously, develop a sense of humor, and at all times be considerate.
(2) Discourtesy. Frequently, too, courtship is filled with the crudities and discourtesies that mark immaturity and selfishness in personality. Being loud or boisterous in public, slovenly or crude in dress or manners, profane or vulgar in conversation, means being cheap and offensive. Furthermore, bragging about other dates and flirting with others while on a date are extremely discourteous, as are also other means of embarrassing or offending the partner. Those who court should be more gentlemanly and ladylike than they sometimes are, more cultured and refined, more considerate, more courteous.
