[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10. (Price $2.50 postpaid). The published missionary experiences of other Church leaders will be equally appropriate for home study. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 6~Charity Rejoiceth in the Truth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, March 5, 1946
Objective: To show that one who is truly charitable rejoiceth in the truth. We do not always rejoice in the truth?in a knowledge of things as they were, and as they shall be. Sometimes the truth is embarrassing, if not humiliating to us.  We are reluctant to admit our  mistakes of the past; to acknowledge our circumstances in the present; or to foresee clearly the consequences of our present behavior in the future. "All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes" says one of the proverbs of the Bible. Love of self encourages us to protect ourselves with repeated coatings of self-justification. If a neighbor casts a reflection on us or on the behavior of our children, we are inclined to pass judgment on the neighbor by thinking of his ill-rendered deeds or those of his children rather than to weigh, in the light of truth, the reflection cast on us by the neighbor. Even in our efforts to improve people, we must begin by accepting them for what they are. A weary mother frequently rebels against the unceasing, and often destructive and mischievous behavior of her children. When she does, she is but heaping coals upon the fire. Her opportunity to influence her children is to realize the truth that they were born to function; that activity is the normal characteristic of personality; and that her only course is to guide their activity into wholesome and creative channels. Three positive attitudes are open to us toward the truth, (i) We can know the truth. This is an important and necessary step in any satisfactory relationship with it. Yet, this is not enough, for we may know the truth but ignore or even oppose it. (2) We can act in conformity with truth. (3) We can love the truth and rejoice in it. This is the highest relation man can have to truth. To live in harmony with the principles of the gospel, not from intellectual assent nor from obedience alone, but from love, is to rejoice in the truth. Charity?which "vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, seeketh not her own"?is free to rejoice in the truth. And only he who has the charity that "rejoiceth in the truth" is truly free.