[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Volunteer Service]
The majority of the missionaries who have gone forth on their good tidings, while not encountering such exceptional experiences with the spirit world, have, nevertheless, seen the flames of hatred for God's work in the eyes of ill-informed men and women. The malice planted in their hearts by the adversary in the case of some nonbelievers has led to overt acts of violence. To be a Mormon missionary at times has meant not to be sure of life itself.
There is a love for the truth, however, which makes men brave. One day, they know, every soul must acknowledge Christ. This it is, among other things, that keeps those who have accepted the good word forever trying. The express command from the Lord, too, that his word must be preached puts an obligation upon the Church to have elders abroad in missionary service.
As we have followed the history of the saints from Palmyra to Salt Lake Valley, often amid their most dire trials has come the call for men to leave their homes and go abroad to preach the gospel. Through the service of home missionaries within the missions and the stakes of Zion, hundreds of faithful Latter-day Saints, not called up on to devote all their time to preaching the gospel, are also spending many hours seeking out the honest in heart. A steadily increasing number of converts are thus coming into the Church through these laborers. Even the recruiting of the Mormon Battalion in the year 1846 was not without its missionary service. Just so, today, our boys abroad in the armed forces are in the most real sense bearers of the truth. Their lives, when held in line with the teachings of the Church, will add to the glory of the latter-day work. 
LESSON DEPARTMENT 769
Before giving a few excerpts from the journals of early missionaries of the Church, let us look at the names and dates of the major missions opened over the earth, since Elder Heber C. Kimball and his companions first went to the British Isles in 1837. Most of this work*of the gathering of Israel was underway before the turn of the century in 1900. There are two dates before 1837 which should be mentioned again. One is 1830, which marks the first mission of all which was the one to the Lamanites. Oliver Cowdery, Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson were sent at that time. Six years later. Elder Pratt and others opened the mission to Canada. Orson Hyde went to Palestine in 1841; Noah Rogers and others to the Society Islands in 1844; and Erastus Snow to Scandinavia in 1850. Four other missions were opened in this same year, the French by John Taylor, the Italian by Lorenzo Snow, the Swiss by T. B. H. Stenhouse, and the Hawaiian by George Q. Cannon and companions. The following year three other countries were added to the foregoing fields: South America by Parley P. Pratt; Australia by John Murdock and Charles W. Wandell; and India. In 1853, Elders Jesse Haven, Leonard Smith and William Walker went to South Africa. In 1854 AA Zealand was opened; in 1861 the Netherlands, in 1888
Samoa, and in 1901
President Heber J. Grant opened the Japanese field. The harvest was ripe during the beginning years of the missionary work of the Restored Church. Parley P. Pratt records in his journal the following concerning the number of saints to leave England for Zion: Between the middle of September [1840] and my own embarkation in October, I chartered three vessels for New Orleans and filled them with the migrating Saints viz.: The 'Sidney/ with one hundred and eighty souls; the 'Medford/ with two hundred and fourteen souls; and the 'Henry,' with one hundred and fifty-seven. I next chartered the 'Emerald' on which I placed about two hundred and fifty passengers, including myself and family (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 361). Next to England, no field has been more fruitful than the Scandinavian. For a glimpse of the early mission encounters in that vineyard one may well turn to the journal of Andrew Jenson who served for many years as assistant Church historian. He relates this experience on the island of Mors in the province of Jutland, Denmark, under the date of July 1874. Bitter opposition had been encountered by the missionaries there before the incident here given was recorded. It was on a Friday evening that the two missionaries met on the Nykjobing wharf, and instead of putting up in the little city, they struck out in the country at once. Night found them in the village of Jorsby, ten miles to the north, where they found friends who kept them over night. Early the next morning the house, in which they had slept, was approached by a crowd of fishermen hailing from the west coast of Jutland. They had been out on the fjord fishing, but a storm had compelled them to seek shelter for a day or so in the village, which was situated on the east coast of the island.  
These men were known to be a rough set, and when the owner of the house where the missionaries stopped saw them approaching in their long watertight boots, their short jackets and heads covered with huge fishermen's storm caps, he felt alarmed, fearing that they came for the purpose of ill-treating his guests; and so expressed himself to them, but the young Utah elder told him not to fear, as nobody would get hurt. A loud rap on the door, a response of "vaer saa god" (please step in), and in filed a dozen or more strong, weather-beaten sailors, who immediately introduced themselves in their own peculiar way by saying that they had come out of pure curiosity to see the man from Utah, whom they had been informed stopped at the house. "Then I am perhaps the man you look for," said the young elder, as he rose from the table and shook hands with them all. "I shall be pleased to answer any proper question you may wish to put to me concerning Utah and her people" (Autobiography of Andrew Jenson, page 75). The distant travels of Elder George Q.
Cannon to the Hawaiian people in the year 1850 opened one of the most colorful chapters in the story of missionary endeavor of the Church. It was the Book of Mormon, the greatest of missionary aids, that so often comforted Elder Cannon and his companions just as it has done hundreds of others of the Lord's servants.
From his writings entitled "My First Mission," chapters 12 and 16, the following excerpts are taken: Before I commenced holding regular meetings, I had plenty of time for meditation, and to review all the events of my short life, and to think of the beloved home from which I was so far separated. It was then that I found the value of the Book of Mormon. It was a book which I always loved. But I learned there to appreciate it as I had never done before. If I felt inclined to be lonely, to be low spirited, or homesick, I had only to turn to its sacred pages to receive consolation, new strength and a rich out-pouring of the Spirit Scarcely a page that did not contain encouragement for such as I was. The salvation of man was the great theme upon which its writers dwelt, and for this they were willing to undergo every privation and make every sacrifice.
What were my petty difficulties compared with those afflictions which they had to endure? If I expected to share the glory for which they contended, I could see that I must labor in the same spirit. If the sons of King Mosiah could relinquish their high estate, and go forth among the degraded Lamanites to labor as they did, should not I labor with patience and devoted zeal for the salvation of these poor red men, heirs of the same promise? Let me recommend this book, therefore, to young and old, if they need comfort and encouragement.
Especially can I recommend it to those who are away from home on missions. No man can read it, partake of its spirit and obey its teachings, without bein" filled with a deep love for the souls of men and a burning zeal to do all in his power to save them.... The conversations, which I had with the natives concerning the Book of Mormon and the origin of the red men, made them anxious to see it. "It is truly surprising how soon the work of translation began. The first elders landed at Honolulu in December, 1850. Not long afterwards Elder Cannon deeply desiring to know the language had the gift of interpretation given to him. His progress in the new tongue must have been rapid, for in less than two months he was beginning to put the record of the Nephites before some of their descend ants. He writes: 'In the last days of the month of January, 1851, I commenced the work of translation. My fellow laborers, the elders, encouraged me, and from the First Presidency at home ?Presidents Young, Kimball and Richards?came words of cheer, approving of what I was doing, and counseling me to persevere.'
