[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

May God bless you in all of your endeavors, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent December 1, and December 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" ADVICE TO MOTHERS: Mothers, and those who have the care of young children and infants, should remember to be in school themselves every day of their lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of her who attends it day by day and hour by hour; delicacy and refinement should guard every action, for, be assured, the plastic soul will bear the impress given! Language, also, should ever be guarded, that no words or exclamations may fall upon the infant ear, but that which is sweet, harmonious, and loving.... You, young mothers, remember day by day and hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests upon you.... Devote, at least, the next twenty years to maturing and educating your children; this will be to you the finest school on earth.?Hannah T. King. CHRISTMAS: Christmas approaches, and as the merry season draws near, our thoughts revert to a period... When the Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the world, condescended to become the babe of Bethlehem, and descend below all things, that He might bring about the great scheme of redemption, and open up the way whereby a fallen world could be restored to the presence of the Father... He came unto his own, and his own received him not.... Then, when another Christmas day dawns upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One who has again restored the Gospel to the earth... Let us as Latter-day Saints, seek after the spirit of Him whose birth we celebrate, and strive to do the works that He did.... In this way we shall ourselves receive a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas.? Phebe C. Young. WINTER: Winter at last is here in pomp and magnificence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful carpet of grass has been replaced by one of pure white snow.... Who does not love, as in the evening they are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild winds of winter first coming like a low, moaning whisper, then louder, shriller, and more fierce.... Again, who does not love to view the trees on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth draped in their pure white robes of snow.... All, all in loveliness.... I thank God that I have been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all this loveliness of nature.?Ida. A CHRISTMAS PRAYER Enlighten, comfort, sanctify my heart, Sweeten my temper and subdue my will. I want to bring my sisters to thy throne, I want to love and honor Christ alone, I want to feel the spirit's inward power. And stand prepared for death's important hour.  I want to do whatever God requires, I want a heart to burn with pure desires. Lead me through life to glorify thy grace, And after death to see Thee face to face. -M. A.