[Vol32 | December 1945 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Two Dolls]

"Naturally this work of translation could be only a part of the missionary work. Preaching, explaining the doctrines, meeting the opposition raised against them by Christian ministers, baptizing, traveling from place to place, administering to the sick, all had their time and place.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 771In reference to his work after returning to Wailuku, where he had first found a friendly reception, and from which place he had removed to save his friend, J. H. Napela, from the persecution of the Presbyterian minister, who had so bitterly opposed the work, Elder Cannon writes: ?The preaching of the gospel created great excitement; the people came by hundreds to hear the testimony, and I had the satisfaction of seeing the missionary who had treated me so badly and who had so bitterly opposed and lied about the work, almost deserted by his congregation; they having left his church to hear us preach and see us baptize.... We baptized a large number of people at Wailuku and the adjacent towns, erected a large meeting-house at that place and smaller ones at the other villages, and organized large and flourishing branches of the Church!' " (Joseph J. Cannon, "George A. Cannon," Instructor, October '44, pages 456-458). Though the darkening shadow of war robbed the world of nearly all but home missionaries, yet the day will come again when the elders of Israel will resume their efforts to carry the gospel to the nations of the world. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. Discuss the work of the seventies in relation to the missionary program of the Church (See Doc. And Cov. 107:25). 2. Have class members who are familiar with missionary work conducted at centers such as Temple Square, Hill Cumorah, etc., tell what they know of this work. 3. It has been said that once a person is a Mormon he is always a Mormon. Though this is not entirely true, there is enough basis for fact in it to cause one to ask?Why." Discuss this question. 4. As a people we are ever ready to explain our faith to others. Why? Read the word of the Lord to three of the early members of the Church and note the one charge he gave to all of them (Doc. And Cov. 4; 6:1-9; 11). 5. Read Doc. And Cov. 46:1-7. Note the attitude of the Lord toward him who is seeking the way of life. 6. Have class members who have filled missions, including home missions, relate interesting missionary experiences. For home study suggest the reading of the missionary experiences of Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Jacob Hamblin. (See Three Mormon Classics, compiled by Preston Nibley, available at Deseret Book Company, 44