[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Clothing for Women Past Forty | Author: The Two Sarahs]

CLOTHING FOR WOMEN PAST FORTY. 229 Spring, the most glorious season of the year, is with us, and
all nature awakens. The violets are peeping from beneath their
snowy beds, the birds are singing, and all nature is rejoicing.
We plan for our gardens and flowers, for spring cleaning and
school festivals, and last, but not least, our wardrobe claims our
attention. Have we anything wearable for the bright sunny days
when we really must discard our winter coats, which sometimes
cover a multitude of undesirable clothing? How shall we know
what is best to wear? The season between seasons is a vexed
problem for woman to solve. Many of us feel we must wear our
winter clothes through this spring of surprising changes until that
fickle dame fashion has settled on a fair, simple style for summer
and for several coming seasons.
It is a question with most women as to the best time to buy
or make a street suit — spring or fall. Some of the advantages
for buying or making early in the season, is the satisfaction of
having a complete change from winter clothing. We get good
service from a sensible blazer suit, for our jacket comes in good
on summer evenings, and is just the thing in the early fall. We
also get the new shades and styles by buying early in the season.
Every woman should have a blazer suit, that is, a coat and skirt of
the same material.
A great deal of silk will be used in spring costumes. The
taffeta petticoat is again coming into use. The old-fashioned
pockets are revived, imitation pockets, and pockets for actual use.
Black and white combinations will doubtless be the leading color
feature. We welcome the return of the shirt waist.
The essentials of a wardrobe are many and varied. We
should remember the necessity of perfect cleanliness in neck wear.
We should be careful in buying or making gamps, lace yokes or
chemisettes. They should always be chosen with an eye to their
practicability. For unless these accessories are made to withstand
continued laundering, they are the most extravagant part of a
woman's wardrobe.
In making a serviceable chemisette to wear with a street dress,
cover a high-necked -corset cover that buttons in the back — if necessary,
cover both back and front with chiffon or silk to harmonize
with dress material. Make small bows of baby ribbon or velvet ;
place small buttons in the center of bows and sew at intervals down the front. This chemisette will serve two purposes — it may be a corset cover and a chemisette. For dressy occasions, take a fine piece of white muslin, put in tucks and lace insertion alternately. Join together insertion for collar, bone and finish with narrow lace. The high collar is again used, and is most becoming to the person with a long neck. The greatest change in the fashionable dress, is the decided and ever increasing width of the skirt. This feature is developed to the utmost in the spring models. We will aid the cotton industries if we make a one-piece dress in the new style. Use the inside belt mounting, have it long enough to go around the waist, and allow a hem at each end as a foundation for hooks and eyes. Bring the skirt up one inch and sew to belt. Fit waist to belt, and cover with belt or girdle. The skirt must fit snugly about the hips, no matter how full it is cut, or whether it be circular or plaited. Calico, gingham or lawn will make up charmingly in these one-piece dresses. Sombre and neutral colors are indicated for spring wear. Hooks and eyes will not drop off, if instead of sewing them on with over and over stitch, you use the button-hole stitch. An easy way to adjust snap fasteners, is to sew the ball section on first, and then cover the top with chalk, a slight pressure will mark the exact spot where the socket section should be placed. The Provo Woolen Mills are making a specialty of suits and separate skirts for women, in home-made goods. A woman should study her own style; hunt out your best points, and hide her poor ones. WHY WE OPPOSE POCKETS FOR WOMEN. 1. Because pockets are not a natural right. 2. Because the great majority of women do not want pockets. If they did, they would have them. 3. Because whenever women have had pockets they have not used them. 4. Because women are expected to carry enough things as it is, without the additional burden of pockets. 5. Because it would make dissension between husband and wife as to whose pockets were to be filled. 6. Because it would destroy man's chivalry toward woman if he did not have to carry all her things in his pockets. 7. Because men are men and women are women. We must not fly in the face of nature. 8. Because pockets have been used by men to carry tobacco, pipes, whisky flasks, chewing gum and compromising letters. We see no reason to suppose that women would use them more wisely. — Alice Duer Miller in New York Times. 