[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: In the Kitchen Laboratory Hazel Love Dunford]

In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. PAYING MORE THAN NECESSARY. There is scarcely a day goes by that the newspapers do not contain articles calling our attention to thousands and thousands of starving individuals. On all sides, we are asked to give aid to this or that fund, for the benefit of some poor creature far away, who is perhaps dying for the want of something to eat. One hardly dares to enjoy good, wholesome food for fear of robbing some fellow being of that which may rightfully belong to him. And yet authorities tell us if the American people would consent to nourish themselves scientifically and economically, they could take care of every starving person at home and abroad, without contributing a cent over and above that which would be saved by so doing. If this be the truth, isn't it about time for us to say, "about face" to ourselves, and get busy and learn how this right can be done? There are many things nowadays put on the market in the way of foods, to attract the eye. If goods are made to look nice, they are sure to sell. This point is a good one, but I'm afraid we are often times led away by it. We are apt to pay too much for the extra "good looks" of an article. The other day, a neighbor of mine telephoned the butcher for some chipped beef. "We don't keep it any more, except in glass jars. It is so much more sanitary," came the answer, and so she ordered a glass to be sent up, and she came in to show it to me; thirty cents and barely enough for dinner, and three adults in the family and two children. "I might as well have had a beefsteak," she said; and so she might, and at less expense, for when you consider the butter or drippings and the cost of milk to cream chipped beef, you have rather an expensive dish. And yet, when one serves chipped beef, one wants to feel that one is economizing. It is impossible to economize at this rate. Is there any reason that chipped beef should be sliced and put up in glass jars? Decidedly not. To really economize, one must be ever watchful, or one is sure to be "taken in" with just such buying. Foods that are put up in expensive packages, as a rule, cost from three to four times more than the same article sold in bulk. For instance, cornmeal, bran, cracked wheat, peanut butter, and so on; breakfast foods, especially those ready prepared, cost too much for the nutritive value they contain. Where one is studying strict economy, one better not buy such food simply because it comes in attractive packages.