[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Home Ethics - Lesson IV - Economy]

Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. LESSON IV — ECONOMY. Human beings cannot live without money or its equivalent. Therefore, the accumulation of means and its wise expenditure is one of the great problems of life, and certainly has its ethical value. The unwise handling of property is a frequent cause of trouble between husbands and wives. It causes difficulties between parents and children, or between brothers and sisters. And friends may become enemies on account of money matters. There is a vast difference between miserliness and wastefulness; either extreme is a serious fault, and should be studiously avoided: but to make lavish use of means on a moderate income is a great sin. All people who have the strength and the intelligence to labor should have the strength of character and the intelligence to save a portion of the product of their labors. Small savings persistently gathered, amount to great accumulations in the passing 
 of the years. Such a course provides against poverty and dependence. Nearly always, the people who can and do help others are people who understand economy and practice it— often to the extent of great self denial. Poverty is a disgrace, when it is the result of shiftlessness, indolence or self-indulgence. Wealth is a credit when it is the result of labor, intelligence, care and self-denial. It is much easier to spend money than to earn, and frequently it is easier to earn money than to save it. Uncivilized man has little care for the future and spends with lavish hand. With him it is often a case of "feast or famine." Men of higher intelligence try to provide for the future, and to be prepared for any emergency. Civilized man has many needs and many more wants. It is a fine thing to be able to discriminate between our actual needs which are not usually expensive and our many wants which cost so much. Samuel Smiles says: "It is only when men become wise and thoughtful that they become frugal. Hence, the best means of making men and women provident is to make them wise." People sometimes hesitate to be frugal for fear of being called stingy. It is far better to be called stingy than really to be unwise. And in deciding just what one will spend, there is an opportunity for discipline and self-control. In most families the man is the wage earner, and the woman is largely responsible for the expenditure. That fact clearly implies the need and the importance of the careful training of girls for their responsibilities. It is quite as important for girls to learn to spend money wisely as it is that boys should be taught how to earn money and how to invest their savings wisely and carefully. In family life, the husband and wife should co-operate. There should be a perfect understanding between them as to financial matters. Many a man has become discouraged and many another has gone to financial ruin, and quite needlessly so, just because his wife did not have the right understanding in regard to his business affairs. Women sometimes become indifferent, and even reckless, because of the management or mismanagement of the head of the family. The regular monthly allowance for the home, handed over to the wife, when possible, would put an end to much difficulty and mental turmoil. The training schools for boys and girls in business and in home-life have done very much to make interesting and popular the kind of work that once was looked upon as drudgery. They teach us how to get the best results with the least expenditure of energy and means. There is joy in labor well performed, and it certainly contributes to happiness and refinement in home life. Our government, too, issues bulletins of great value to husbandmen and housewives, containing matter prepared by scientific experts. It seems as if the time must arrive when ignorance on practical subjects will be almost inexcusable. Our revered pioneer leaders, in early times of great need, did much to educate the untrained people of their day. President Brigham Young was a noted economist, theoretical and practical. One saying repeated of him is: "A housewife can throw out of the window with a teaspoon as fast as a man can shovel in at the door." Another, "If you have a million bushels of wheat, you have not one kernel to waste." It is said of President George A. Smith that he never went into a town that he did not give practical and useful advice, citing instances for the betterment of conditions. His clear-sightedness caused others to see what might otherwise have gone unobserved. These are only two of the inspired, leading men. Among our beloved women leaders there were highest examples of refinement, industry, thrift, economy and noble womanhood. Elizabeth S. Wilcox. QUESTIONS. Give some results of unwise handling of property. Name some extremes we should avoid. When is poverty a disgrace? When is wealth a credit? Tell the difference between civilized and uncivilized men, on the subject of economy. Who are the frugal people? What should be the attitude of people towards constructive criticism? What about the training of boys and girls? What about mutual understanding and co-operation, in family life? Give some of your views in regard to settling the difficulties that arise. What effect has industrial training in the schools had upon our community? Name some of the ways in which free information of high value may be obtained? How was it in the early days? Let each member be ready with a quotation suitable to the subject. — E. S. W.