[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Colds]

Colds. By Maud Baggarley. "Just an ordinary cold" is a very common expression. But people are beginning to awaken to the fact that a cold is not ordinary, and calls for "first aid" immediately. Many persons never fully recover from the effects of a neglected, ordinary cold. It often leaves in its wake serious afflictions, the greatest of these being tuberculosis. A cold prepares the way for these foes greater than itself. Many make the mistake of dressing too warmly and wearing too many wrappings about the throat; others have the clothing unevenly distributed about the body. The older people usually wear too much, the young too little. If it were only possible for both classes to strike the happy medium! Other factors in the production of "ordinary colds" are the stove or furnace in winter, and closed doors and windows. The feet should be kept dry — and warm if possible — the shoes not too tight; round garters should not be worn, as they interfere with the circulation; the food should be plain and easily digested, since colds are often caused by over-eating. (I heard a physician say, recently, that the greater per cent of cases of pneumonia in children comes from injudicious diet.) The home should be well ventilated. One should keep in mind, however, the fact that cold air is not always pure air. Cold air, from an unused room, may be stale and loaded with impurities. The treatment for a cold is simple and inexpensive. The circulation must be equalized, since there is always a disturbance. At the onset of a cold, one should drink quantities of hot water, take a dose of physic, and go to bed for a few hours, or a day, if possible. On retiring at night, take the juice of half a lemon in a glass of water; soak the feet in hot water; and put a cloth wrung out of cold water about the neck, and cover with a dry cloth. If there is a cough, eat dry salt freely. A teaspoonful of glycerine taken at intervals is also good for the cough, but nothing is better than dry table salt. If the cold is not better the second day, put a mustard plaster on the chest until the skin is red, but not burned, afterwards anoint with olive oil. Mentholatum and Lyman's Cough Embrocation are both excellent to rub on neck and chest to relieve the cold. The diet must be light, nourishing, and easily digested, that the organs of elimination may be free to throw off the waste. Rest is necessary. Most drugs are useless— the simple, home remedies being best. A stubborn cold that refuses to yield to home treatment may be the beginning of serious trouble, hence, a reliable physician should be called. Whatever you do, never neglect a cold. FARM WOMEN. Women interested in Home Improvement on the farm should write to Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Office Building No. 215, Washington, D. C., or the Senator from the State in which they live, for report 104 "Domestic Needs of Farm Women," Report 105. "Educational Needs of Farm Women," and Report 106 "Economic Needs of Farm Women." McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah — — INCORPORATED — SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family— and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE All Relief Society Members who study the Art lessons in the guide, need Devotees and Their Shrines to prepare their lessons. Send to this magazine headquarters or Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostler Court, Salt Lake City. Price $1.25 postpaid. 120 illustrations THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design — beautiful in finish — pure and sweet, rich and full in tone — the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Only Under The Jensen Name Will You Find "Jensen" Quality There are scores of butters. But super-quality such as Jensen's Butters are noted for, is to be found only under the "Jensen" name. Two styles put up: "Four-in-one," four separately wrapped prints, and "Blanchard," the standard size print. Both full pound in weight. Call for them by name. Jensen Creamery Co. Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Supplies for Temple THE UTAH STATE Uses; NATIONAL BANK, Those who desire neat, attracSALT LAKE CITY tive and moderate-priced articles UTAH for rent or purchase, for use in It is the purpose of this Bank at the Temple, should apply to all times to render helpful service and make the handling Relief Society Headquarters, of your banking Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. HOMESEEKERS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.