[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 06c | Category: Article | Title: In the Kitchen Laboratory Hazel Love Dunford]

Home Gardening for Women. (How to Produce Two Crops of Strawberries in one Season.) While my friend and I were visiting through Utah county, late last November, we chanced to take dinner at the Hotel Roberts, in our beautiful Garden city, Provo; and to our surprise, found on the menu card, "Fresh strawberries and cream." Curious at once as to whether they were imported berries, or those put up fresh in bottles, we inquired of the maid who waited upon us, and found they were neither the canned nor imported berries, but raised on the East Bench, in Provo. We learned also that they were the second crop of the season — as succulent and crisp, and as fine a flavor as those produced in the early summer. So anxious were we to see the fruit growing, and to meet with one who had made it possible to successfully produce such delicious fruit, that our friend and President Mrs. Martha Keeler drove us up in her auto to the farm. Here we met Mr. A. O. Andelin, and we had the unique experience of seeing the berries growing, picked and packed for market. We inquired of him as to the kind of berry vines, he used, the method of producing them, etc. We asked Mr. Andelin if he would tell us just how to proceed with a strawberry patch, in order to have success. He was delighted with the idea, and the following is the method used, as related by him: "Have the berries well trained and mulched, and in early spring, cultivate and water them freely. They must of necessity, have good sunlight and rich sandy loam. After the first crop is gathered, mow off the tops rather close, cultivate between the rows and mulch again; let rest, without irrigating, for five or six weeks, then water as in early spring, and you will soon be rewarded with a fine second crop of strawberries, for which you will receive a handsome price." He said cultivation and fertilization were very important points to remember. We were at his farm about November 4, 1914, and though so late in the season, he still had a splendid crop yet to gather and market, selling them at 20c per cup. If any of our readers wish to communicate with Mr. Andelin, or secure strawberry plants from him, address Provo, Utah, care B. Y. U., and he will be pleased to accommodate you with plants or information, or both.