[Column 2]
and cares less. It is quite sufficient that
his doctrines confirm men in tyranny and
imagined superiority and while his wife
may sit in “pleasant places,” complacently
indifferent to the great heart-throbbing of
the wcrld beyond the narrow circle of her
daily life, it is not every woman who is so
fortunately situated, nor is Mr. R., with
all his wisdom, wise enough to predict just
how his nearest and dearest may end their
days. Personalities, however, cut no figure
in the clash and battle of ideas. We are
only seeking for the truth deep in the heart
of creation, and a narrow application of
God’s curse of Eve is neither manly, just or
chivalrous.
“Ah, I doubt not thro.’ the ages one increasing
	purpose runs
And the thoughts of men are widened with the
	process of the suns.
Not in vain the distance beckons. Forward, for-
	ward let us range,
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	grooves of change.
Thro.’ the shadow of the globe we sweep into the
	younger day;
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of
	Cathay!”
Shall not women share the progress, the
advancement toward “the parliament of
man, the federation of the world,” when
“The common sense of most shall hold a fretful
	world in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in uni-
	versal law?”
Shall we forget that “all those who re-
ceive ray Gospel are sous and daughters in
my kingdom?” Shall we be bound by the
narrow sphere of home alone when we re-
member Mary, who was so sweetly com-
mended by Christ, for having chosen the
better part? Shall we forget the equality
which he declared between the sexes in ex-
pounding the marriage law? Or shall we
shrink into our narrow round of domestic
drudgery and leave man sole proprietor of
the ennobling studies of government and the
exalting comprehension of the works of
creation in the “fairy tales of science,” be-
cause, forsooth, he has an inherent right to
prescribe what we shall or shall not do?
	With what solicitous love and passion
Mr. Roberts warns men to pray before they
admit the demon of politics to their firesides,
and how he pleads that women will with-
draw their senseless, unrighteous demands!
Woman suffrage may be a new idea to him
we should judge it to be so but it is not so
to all women, and Mr. Roberts must offer
us something better than past political his-
tory, made by men alone, before we can
accede to his anxious request. Then,
“eliminate politics from the fireside!” Per-
haps it, too, was merely music, but we
have often been consoled for our lack of the
reality by an offering of the ghost in this
shape or something similar: “Today God
has thrust responsibility upon every man
and woman; every man to know how to
vote, and every woman to see that he votes
right!” Use your influence, woman! Every
woman’s influence is a power! In a conver-
sation a day or two ago a gentleman asked
a lady of what political complexion she
was? “Why should I care to know?”
she asked, innocently, “it matters not on
election day it doesn’t count I have no in-
centive to that kind of study.” “Oh, but
your boys, your boys!” he replied, “you
should teach them!” Ah, indeed! Then
what about the fireside? Then Mr. Rob-
erts fairly raises the hair of our heads on
end with a cry of "Danger to our homes!"

[Column 3]
Now, what under the sun, is the danger?
Will not a little time given to the study of
government or politics be more bracing in
every way than general novel reading, and
is it not quite as fitting to a sensible human
being of either sex? Mr. Roberts knows
by experience, perhaps, or, at least, the
present writer does, that while the average         
novel is enervating both to body and mind,
the vigorous prosecution of science is invig-
orating, and we rise from its study with a
joy, a mental tone and vigor that gives also
tone to the body and elasticity in manual
pursuits. But, alas! Government and
science are unfeminine; novel reading is in
better taste. And no one will call in ques-
tion the tardiness of tea, disorder of the
kitchen, neglect of children or general good-
for-nothingness, if only Madam is not lit-
erary, scientific, or a defender of woman’s
rights. The poet again: Our Whittier
said: “I am not afraid that men will be-
come less manly or women less womanly
by giving suffrage to women.” And as to
divorces, the “test of the pudding is in the
eating,” and Wyoming, (oh, that I might
say New York, Mr. Roberts, but I cannot,)
declares that their register of divorces is
less in proportion to population than that
of any other State. The nature of men and
women cannot be changed by the ballot.
True to that nature, they unite in the home
as in politics, one complementing the other,
subduing, assisting, fulfilling, completing
what neither can do alone—what neither
was ever intended to do alone. Helpmeet,
companion, queen in the home, as he is
king, with superiority to neither, God de-
signed that companionship, that bearing of
one another’s burdens, sharers of each
other’s fortunes, for no narrow sphere.
	But why do we want the ballot? That is
too big a question to be answered in a news-
paper article. One reason is that we feel
politically degraded. Franklin said that to
be unenfranchised was to be in political
slavery. When the Government
wanted to punish Jefferson Davis for rebel-
lion they simply disfranchised him. We
have to endure taxation without represent-
ation, whereas the meanest transient of the
correct gender can vote for the disposal of
taxes women have to pay. We are a part of
the people who are amenable to the coun-
try’s laws, but we have no voice in those
laws; though governed we have no power
of consent. Woman’s claims to the right
of suffrage cannot be less inherent than that
of mans.
	We consider that government of a
people is as the government of a fam-
ly, but on a large scale, and believe that
the moral and intellectual counsel of women
through the ballot can be no danger, but of
incalculable value; and, further, as we are
equally interested in free trade or contra-
wise, in the licensing of various evils, in
taxation—in a word, since we are in reality
a part of the people, suffering in the adver-
sity of the country, glad in its prosperity,
anxious for its morals, proud of its honors,
sharers of its burdens, we demand the ballot
as a right through which to express our
will for all mutual good; and, above all
things for the good, the moral protection,
the education, the happiness of our chil-
dren—the very thing to which the most
radical anti-suffragist would point as our
first and greatest duty.
	Mr. Roberts rather likes the saying of
Luther (we presume he means St. Augus-
tine,) about the rib of Adam from which
God made Eve, that he might protect her


Let us try an interpretation of the rib, if
it were meant for a symbol, with a little
independent originality, begging pardon of
the great Roberts, and the greater Luther.
May we not read an equality in the glorious
symbol, a side by side companionship, an
“I am king and thou my sister queen,” (for
God bade them have dominion.) Indeed,
we would ask Mr. R. to go back and read
Augustine clearer, and not mislead himself
and others by a part, only, of the text.
	His “glowing apostrophe to woman,”
was no doubt worthy of a knight of chiv-
alry; but we have outgrown the Middle
Ages, thank heaven, and women to whom
the Creator has given brains for independent
thought and desire for independent action,
are but poorly satisfied with ever so liberal
a dose of “taffy” when they are asking for
a little substantial bread and meat. Our
darling poet’s apostrophe to woman’s right
to progress through the willing hand of
God’s providence and love, was a far
sweeter aud wholesomer morsel than a worn
out rag of ignorant chivalry. What a
broader, better, truer knighthood do we
recognize in our intelligent poet! How
truly “the highest peak of all.”
	Mr. Roberts does not deny our right to
education, our moral superiority, or our in-
fluence for purity and goodness. Well,
that was kind. But, really, education
makes us feel, more and more, the galling
bonds of political bondage; moral superior-
ty, it seems, can never compensate our first
unfortunate mistake in Eden, and our in-
fluence, however great and good and pure,
must be so shackled that our little sons
learn early to regard us with contempt,
(the most unkindest cut of all)! Must be
confined within such narrow limits to be
duly feminine, that we, who have felt and
found the shackles galling, (mothers,
wives are we, with women’s tender hearts),
would almost exclaim: Remove education,
give us the convent veil or the retirement
of the Turkish slave-wife, for with our
wider vision the load becomes too heavy,
and your praises seem but airy conceits, or
insults that sink too deep.
	His figure of the confluence of the Mis-
souri and Mississippi with but an ocean to
rest in, might not be inaptly put in another
way. Political power has so long been ex-
ercised by man alone, unchecked by wo-
man’s higher moral sense, until, so full of
moral filth, it has become like the great
Hoang Ho which, depositing its silt in its
bed as it flows, it rises higher and higher
until at length no hand can stay its violent
outburst to the utter destruction of a prov-
ince with its millions and millions of hu-
man lives. So our governments, defiled by
their own corruptions, break out in strikes
and insurrections, revolutions, wars—civil
and otherwise. Admit a purer stream to
make the filthy one less turbid, and the
catastrophe would at least occur at more
widely separate periods.
