[Column 1]
was the power which ruled in the Only Be-
gotten Son of God—love. It was the
power that made Him give up His life that
man might be led to a knowledge of God.
That power was essential today to bring
about a changed condition of things. It
was that power in the heart of man for his
fellow man that would lift them up nearer
to truth and nearer to right. But moral
courage and love were not all that was
needed. She presumed there were men
and women in the congregation who had
the courage to cross those vast plains. She
would like to ask what it was that made
them hold on day after day. At night there
was the burning fire, and all around the dry
dust of the plains, to consume them within
and without. What was it that made pos-
sible for them, with the darkness still
around, to lie down without fear of sur-
rounding danger. What was it made them
rise up the following morning, and go still
on and on towards the setting sun? Was it
not an unfaltering faith that God would
lead them to the land of promise where
they could build their future homes, and
where they could rest? Faith in God was
the inspiration of all great men of old.
Plutarch, 2,000 years ago, stated that he
found cities without theatres or gymnasiums
but never without places for sacrifice,
shrines and gods. That which had drawn
men together into societies, into cities and
into nations was faith in an over-ruling
Providence who holds the destinies of all
people in the hollow of His Almighty
hand. Faith in God ennobled man in dis-
tress, in adversity and in business.
	But men and women must not only have
moral courage, must not only have un-
faltering faith in God; there were higher
laws that must be obeyed. Every man and
woman realized that there were spiritual
laws toward which their spirits responded as
a flower did to the rays of the sun, and the
man or woman, who was strong in character
was the one who was obedient to the teach-
ings of the spirit. No man was fit to be a
general in the army who had not first been
a private and learned how to obey. No
man was fit to be a teacher who had not
himself the principles he taught to others.
No man was fit to be a leader in statescraft
who had not himself been taught. So, no
man or woman was fit for the work of God
in this world who had not first of all be-
come obedient to the teachings of God in
his or her own life. Uncomprising
obedience to the teachings of God was neces-
sary. Just think of that mighty man Lord
Byron—a man of masterful mind—a miracle
of poesy. In his soul was a harp so divinely
tuned that angel fingers would fain have
touched its strings. It pleased God to place
this mighty power in the hands of man,
but when God asked him for a song which
would have lifted men out of degradation,
out of the dark vales of despair, he took
the harp and sank it in the dust at the feet
of his selfish lusts, and the whole world
mourned the loss of the song. Each of
God's children had received from God a
soul similarly attuned, and if one would but
hearken he would hear His divine voice.
Christ promised that He not only would
own His own, but that His own would
know Him. They would know His voice,
and they would follow Him, and the voice
of a stranger they would not follow. And
so in all time the souls of men have been
divinely attuned to hear the voice of God.
Men may never have heard of the written
word, and yet they are not left without a

