PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SCHOOL—The spring winds and showers
are over, and the freshness of the foliage is
beautiful to behold. The glorious month
of roses is upon us. The air is full of fra-
grance and music. Mingling with the love
notes of the birds and the fair opening of
the flowers are the parting songs of the
school children. The last few days have
come and the little hearts leap with joy at
the thought of a respite from stupid text-
books and the enjoyment of a long vacation.
And yet, does not every little child have
some regret? After all, with the bright an-
ticipations and the happy relief, there is the
sorrow of parting with a faithful, patient
teacher and loving little friends, parting,
perhaps, to meet no more, for who can tell
what changes the summer days may bring?
Some may leave for other climes, and some,
perhaps the great reaper may gather to his
fold. Alas! With all the sweet, the bitter
sure is found. Yet who does not enjoy
those last, warm, pleasant days, with the
preparations for a final day, when parents
and friends, and that august body—the
trustees—come to see us in holiday attire
and hear us sing and recite.
	It is now the time when the sweet girl
graduate plans some lovely gown, where
among the soft, graceful folds the roses and
carnations play hide and seek. Lovelier
than the flowers are the blushes of her face,
as she receives the gifts and congratulations
of her admiring friends. It is the time
when the brave youth recites his valedic-
tory, his countenance aglow with the sun-
shine of life and hope, and as we gaze, the
heart recalls the poet's words:
	“How beautiful is youth,
	How bright it gleams
	With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
	Book of beginnings, stories without end,
	Each maid a heroine
	And each man a friend.”
	School teachers—Speaking of graduates
brings back a question much conned. Why,
in these hard times, and while there is so
much talk about “home industry,” does
Utah need to send East for teachers? Are
the Eastern teachers superior to the Utah
teachers? I think not, and yet throughout
our public schools, to every Utah teacher,
there are three or four, or more, imported
teachers. Again, where does the imported
teacher spend his wages? (the people’s
taxes.) Does he spend them in Utah, or
does he, so far as possible, send East for
everything he can? When vacation comes
does he take his rest at the Utah resorts,
among her mountains and her lakes, or
does he not rather hie him to his Eastern
home to visit friends, and tell in glowing
colors his experiences among the “unculti-
vated westerners,” especially the “dreadful
Mormons?” To be sure, it is only the ex-
ception where some teacher has returned
home and published remarks very uncom-
plimentary, and in some cases, most absurd,
about the Mormon school children. Ar-
ticles extremely unkind, because they were
most untrue; but that such articles have
been published is true, for we have read
them and while Utah has a University,
with a large normal class, and a high
school with thorough teachers, and every
summer has many graduates, need we send
away for teachers for the district schools?
Are there any better teachers in the schools
now than those who are graduates from the
University? Do any of the Eastern men or


women excel Professors Kingsbury, Paul,
Toronto, Van Cott, all Utah men, Utah
born and bred? Have we ever had more
successful teachers in the district schools,
teachers more beloved by their pupils,
teachers with better discipline or more need-
ful knowledge, than Louisa A. Ashby,
Emma Wells, Rebecca Mantle, Augusta
Winters, Eliza Slade, May Wells, Keetie
Heywood, Lucy Stringam, and a host of
others I could name, but space forbids?
	Certainly not, and the young men and
young women of Utah are just as capable
now as ever, and our training schools ought
to be, and I believe are, equal to the East-
ern training schools. Why then should we
not keep our money at home, employ our
own people in this vocation? If a corpora-
tion should talk of sending East for labor to
build a smelter, or a railroad, or any great
undertaking, think of the furore it would
raise, how the workingmen would hold
mass meetings, and the people would pro-
test, and yet every year some hundred men
and women come here and teach in our
public schools. Personally they are well
liked, and their society is enjoyed, because,
of course, they are cultivated, refined and
in every way an ornament and a pleasure
to the city, as refinement and education al-
ways is, but do they make their homes per-
manently with us, and is it necessary to
have them? A school teacher is well paid,
salaries range from fifty to a hundred and
fifty dollars, a month. Does not three-
fourths of the wages of an Eastern teacher
go out of the Territory, while all of it
would remain if Utah teachers were em-
ployed? Besides, do these Eastern people
leave their homes and come West to teach,
for as small a wage as a Utah teacher would
accept, in other words do they not come
pretty high?
	This question may cause some discussion
but the people of Utah ought to insist on
Utah talent being employed as far as pos-
sible in the public schools’ I do not speak
ignorantly when I say I know the Utah
teachers are the equal of the Eastern teach-
ers. In a school near me a lady from
Michigan was employed, she had a small
school, an average attendance of fifteen
pupils tho’ over thirty were enrolled. Her
hours were from nine until half past two,
and she received sixty dollars a month; her
highest grade was the third reader and she
had only four or five scholars in that grade,
as soon as school closed she went back to
Michigan for the summer.
	She was a good teacher but no
better than dozens of Utah girls I
could mention, and I know they would
have been glad to have taken that school at
forty or even thirty dollars a month, and
spent it all in Utah besides. And for one,
a woman, a mother—a would-be voter I
declare for Utah teachers in Utah schools so
far as possible. Let a city employ its own
talent, cultivate its own people. Of course
where the Eastern teachers make Utah
their home, help to build her up, are tax-
payers, and are a part of us, why encourage
them by employment, we cannot have too
many of the cultured people among us, it is
only against those who come solely for our
money, and have their homes in other
states that I protest.
