POETRY.
	
	POETRY is the language of the soul, the
inspiration of mankind, and praises of nature
and of God! There is poetry in beautiful
thoughts, kind deeds and loving words:
there is poetry in the chirp of the meadow-
lark and the croak of the frog; there is
poetry in the rising and the setting sun, in
the stars and the moon, in a beautiful sky;
there is poetry in the hills and the dales,
and the delicate tinted flowers that grow
there; there is poetry in the mountains and
the laughing streams that rush down their
sides. There is poetry in music, painting
and art; in everything that is beautiful,
grand, sublime, noble and true.
	Persons have been heard to say they dis-
like poetry. It readily shows that they do
not understand it and cannot appreciate it.
Poetry is not mere rhyme. To show you
poetry is not always written in rhythmical
numbers I will suggest that you read, “The
Tempest” from Charles Dicken’s, “David
Copperfield” or John Ruskin’s “Modern
Painters.”
	To illustrate to you how poetry is the
language of the soul, I will quote from
Longfellow’s “Psalm of Life.”

	“Tell me not in mournful numbers
		Life is but an empty dream,
	For the soul is dead that slumbers
		And things are not what they seem.
	Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal:
	Dust thou art to dust returnest,
		Was not spoken of the soul."

	Is there a heart that does not feel a res-
ponsive thrill when perusing these eloquent
thoughts. But what would they have been,


where would they have stood in literature,
had not our beloved poet, Longfellow, 
expressed them in poetry—true poetry? I
said it was the inspiration of mankind. Is
it not, when you hear beautiful thoughts
and sentiments expressed in poetry, does it
not cheer, elevate, inspire, the soul to things
eternal and sublime? Are not songs and
praises always put into poetry? What
would they be in mere phraseology, nothing.
There would be no sentiment about them.
	What would patriotic songs be without
this poetic inspiration? Would they arouse
any. sense of patriotism in you? For instance,
will give part of our national song,
‘‘America” in common language and then
in its own musical rhythm—
	This country, where the first settlers met
their death is mine. I will sing of freedom
from the mountains, to you, (or)

		“My country! ’tis of thee,
		Sweet land of liberty.
			Of thee I sing:
		Land where my fathers died,
		Land of the pilgrim’s pride
		From ev’ry mountain side
			Let freedom ring.”

	Which has the patriotism in it?
arouses your patriotic emotions? The
ardent lover of poetry in all its glory, is the
one who can tell Again, I ask, what must
be the state of that soul which despised
poetry, for, in this state of mind, they can-
not appreciate anything good, pure, beauti-
ful or sublime. Shakespeare must have had
in mind such a being when he said:
“The man that hath no music in himself,
	Nor is moved with concord of sweet sounds,
	is fit for treason, stratagems and spoils.
	The motions of his spirit are dull as night
	And his affections dark as Erebus— 
	Let no such man be trusted.”
							Olea Shipp
May, 18, 1894.


