[Column 2]
witness of a God. Men's souls cry out after
God. There lies in each man's heart a
divine love—a love that can become so
limitless, so broad, so deep, so pure, so en-
during that men have changed its name and
called it God. This would endure after
the world had gone to decay, after the uni-
verse had passed away.
	Men and women, therefore, strong in
character, are those who possessed moral
courage—courage to stand up for principle,
for right, for truth; men and women who
have unfaltering faith in God, who have
zeal, and have become obedient to the higher
laws of God. These traits were requisite
to success; "and if you men and women,"
said the speaker, "are loyal to these
principles the time will come when your
state shall be a glory and an honor to the
Union of States and you shall be a glory to
the world."
	Everywhere help was needed to get rid
of the sin and wrong everywhere to be
found. Why was it so? Was it because
men loved to be bad? She did not believe
the worst man in the world loved to be bad.
He was led by certain impulses which he
believed would add to his pleasure and to
his comfort; but to believe that he did this
because he loved to be bad was a mistake.
She believed that the great majority of man-
kind were reaching up toward God, groping
in darkness and ignorance though they
might be. She had so much faith in
humanity and in God that she believed that
wherever, out of the darkness, a single soul
is turned, the light of God's spirit would
shine in that soul. And, so, believing in
humanity, believing in God, she looked for-
ward to the time when every knee would
bow in obedience to God, and men would
show by their love for the Almighty their
love for each other; their faith in Him by
their faith in each other; His willingness
to help them by their willingness to help
each other; "for how could we love God
whom we have not seen if we do not love
our brethren whom we have seen." Then
shall come the better day, and then the
better time. God would never leave us
alone, never forsake us. In all our battles
for truth He would be by our side. It was
our duty to seek Him morning, noon and
eventide. He who served God faithfully here
would reap the harvest by and by; he who
would serve God faithfully in disappoint-
ment, discouragement shall be given the
victory in the end.
	The speaker concluded by saying that
she was glad to have had the privilege of
coming here and of speaking a few words
to the people. She hoped that all would
go forth realizing the responsibility resting
upon them, and closed her address by a
prayer for the blessing of God to rest upon
all His children.
	President A. M. Cannon next introduced
MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	Who spoke as follows:—"It is just about
twenty-four years ago that I was present in
this great Tabernacle on the day upon
which you dedicated it to the service of the
Lord, and every nook and corner, of this
great building was packed on the occasion
with people from every part of the Ter-
ritory, many being unable to gain admit-
tance. It was the most magnificent gather-
ing I ever saw, and it was brought together in
the midst of the greatest trouble that any
people who were seeking to do right could
go through. In this quarter of a century
you have come to the splendid moment

[Column 3]
when you are about to pass from the period
of childhood of the government—from the
period that governors have been placed over
you by the national government, from the
period of the condition of living under
subjection—to the period when you are
about to pass into the condition of self-gov-
ernment; and I am glad to be here this
moment to congratulate you upon this great
and good result which has come to you, or
is abont to come to you. I want to con-
gratulate you all that in the making of the
fundamental law of your state in your Con-
vention you have ordained that justice
shall be done to all your people; that the
women who toiled by your sides, who came
over the plains with you men, who have
suffered all you have suffered, and a great
deal more than many will ever know, of
sacrifice and hardship—I congratulate you,
I say, that in your sense of justice and gen-
erosity you have incorporated in your con-
stitution, which is to be law of your state,
that women shall be by your side. Justice
is what every human being longs for, and,
therefore, I, today, congratulate you upon
this auspicious moment when the Territory
of Utah is about to become a state, that the
women who for the last few years have been
disfranchised—not by the law of the Ter-
ritory, but by national legislation—will be
restored to their just right. I know you
will go on and prosper, and that you will
become the greatest of the mountain states,
and it is destined to become one of the great
states of the nation. This is the third
mountain state that has ordained justice to
all the people, that has declared that their
government shall be genuine, not for a part
of the people; but for the whole com-
munity."


