[Column 2]
schoolmaster" to boot," is perhaps beneath
the attention of a Demosthenes.
	This, too, may be "soulful," but, any-
way, he is bold enough to put it into the
mouth of the greatest of all earthly poets,
philosophers, philanthropists and orators
combined:
"For what is glory but the blaze of fame,
The people's praise, if always praise unmixt?
And what the people but a herd confused,
A miscellaneous rabble, who extol
Things vulgar and, well-weighed, scarce worth
	the praise?
They praise and they admire they know not what
And know not whom, but as one leads the other;
And what delight to be by such extolled?
To live upon their tongues and be their talk,
Of whom to be dispraised were no small praise?"
	As there are certainly no stars in my po-
litical horizon to be blotted out, if there be
political pabulum in this quotation, why,
"make the best of it!"
	Three speeches of upward of an hour
each, and yet the seeking after a real pearl
of thought throughout the whole mass of
rubbish is like the proverbial seeking for a
"needle in a straw stack!" Perhaps, how-
ever, in her cry for logic woman is but giv-
ing another proof of her "incapacity for in-
dependent" research as well as action, and
adding thereunto a flagrant proof of her
lack of intellect by her inability to duly ap-
preciate a flight of oratory for its sheer
music. Something in the poet's fix, you
know. But the most hardened orator would
not refuse her just a little sip, even though
God and nature, man and prehistoric cus-
tom, render her, by birth, quite incompe-
tent to drink deeply at the Pierian spring of
logic or oratory.
	First, then, we are confronted with the
chivalrous (?) assertion that we are really
not capable of exercising the franchis[-], that
the hearth must limit all our aspirations,
that women are sweet and pure and whole-
some around the fireside alone, and this
complemented by the proverbial curse of
Eve. Paul, too, is quoted, and we do not
see why he did not go on and quote Paul,
bidding us stay at home and learn of our
husbands, etc. Admitting Paul's fervent
zeal and matchless logic, we still hold that
the customs of his times in regard to women
will scarcely "wash" in our nineteenth
century, even making allowance for nine-
teenth century self-conceit and presumption.
	Then in regard to Eve's curse: Is it not
amusing, would it not be really laughable
were it not used as such a potent weapon
against us by cruel hands, to see how glibly
men can quote: Her desire shall be unto
her husband and he shall rule over her. If
you counter quote: So God created man in
His own image; male and female created
He them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
THEM, be fruitful, and multiply, and re
plenish the earth, and subdue it and HAVE
DOMINION, etc. They are not posted,
"not well up in the Bible anyway, you
know, never was very religious at best.
Don't take much stock in religion, you
see." Ah, no, plenty of them that "take
no stock in religion," except to remind
women of the curse of mother Eve—their
religion becomes quite eloquent then.
	Then if it be a curse would it not be more
in accord with the chivalry, justice, right-
eousness of a true manhood to ameliorate
and lighten so sweeping a degradation?
Adam's curse was to earn his bread by the
sweat of his brow. Does even our hero
"from Davis" object to a man’s accumula-
tion of sufficient wealth to make others do


