[Column 2]
command to multiply and replenish the
earth was a spiritual, an eternal law, and
was given to spiritual beings capable of
observing it. The covenant and obligation
of each in the keeping of the law was to be
an everlasting covenant, a spiritual cove-
nant and obligation as eternal as the being
from whom the law had emanated: and was
to be made in view of its eternal conse-
quences.
	When a man by mutual consent of both
parties has made of woman a wife and
mother, and a child has been born, a living
soul created that has been done which can
never be undone. Eternal results and con-
sequences must inevitably follow, and this
is sufficient reason why it should be done
by virtue of an everlasting covenant, a
covenant made to endure in time and
through all eternity, co-equal in duration
with the results of the work done.
	The intent, purpose and deliberation
should be in accord with the character of
the work, so that by virtue of actual merit
the reward may be secured. The reward
could not be reasonably claimed without the
intent and purpose were an element of the
work done, and prompted the parties who
did it: in full faith of acquiring benefits
that would result therefrom.
	Any work done by parties who are per-
fectly indifferent or regardless of the con-
sequences; is done without faith in that
work and without any righteous intent,
would be a work without hope of reward, a
work to which no reward could attach, as
it would be without the elements of either
hope or charity. Faith, Hope and Charity,
these three abide; they are elements or at-
tributes which must enter into all the works
and deeds of men to make them works of
righteousness as enduring as eternity its-
self.
	Hence it is that the relationship of the
sexes by virtue of covenant made only for
time is void to them beyond the limits of
time. The fruits of that relation are be-
gotten as destitute of eternal element in
their creation, as were the creators who
formed them, and the result is apparent
unbelief and infidelity in eternal things are
characteristics of the race begotten in a
covenant made only for time: when and
where passions rule: and elements that are
divine are in contempt, as unworthy of hu-
man recognition.
	In this life where evil prevails such a
work must universally prove to be the work
of folly and wickedness, and if not
restrained will result in evil and misery as the
only just reward for evil done. Though
a man slay his fellow man, the deed of
death be done, yet if, there be no intent or I
purpose of so doing, guilt does not attach,
punishment does not follow. So in all cases
of moral action, faith must prompt to deeds
of right, and intent to deeds of wrong, to
call into exercise the principles of mercy
and justice, resulting in rewards and pun-
ishments for acts of this mortal life.
	Complete moral rectitude will never come
to man on earth uutil the marriage cove-
nant is made and honored as one for time
and for all eternity: never ending and never
to be violated; and every soul have free ac-
cess to it, not only as a natural inherent
right, but from the eternal fact that “the
man is not withont the woman nor the wo-
man without the man in the Lord.” No
eternal life but in the eternal law. 
							S. W. R.


