[Column 2]
coming here. When I go back to the West
to wind up my affairs and come back, which
I must, I shall think of this place, and of
the boys here (Farmington,) where there is
no saloon."
	Elder Ezra T. Clark reviewed his past
life for the fifty years, and spoke of his suc-
cess in his family, and referred to his kin-
dred who had come long distances to be with
him on this occasion; his gratitude to them,
and his love for this people with whom he
was associated; said many good things that
were appreciated by all present.
	Sister Mary S. Clark spoke of her joy and
her happiness under all circumstances, be-
cause of the Gospel; of coming here among
the sagebrush, living in a log cabin, but the
Lord had blest them in their family; they
were all in the Church; all faithful and all
temperate; she rejoiced to see so many 
friends come from afar to do them honor,
and those who had come from the city, and
their neighbors; welcomed all. 
	Sister Rhoda Cooper, 85 years old, sang
the hymn, "Who is this faith one from the
wilderness traveling?"
	Sister Rhoda Douglas spoke much upon
faith and the powers of healing, related re-
markable instances, and exhorted the young
people to serve the Lord. A poem com-
posed for the occasion by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
was read by Sister E. B. Wells. A duet
was rendered by two of the young people
from California. The program was under
the direction of Edwin B. Clark, son of
Brother and Sister Clark, and was very well
carried out, there were about three hundred
people present. 
	There were twenty-one relatives from a
distance besides some from Idaho and dif-
ferent parts of Utah. The presents were
quite valuable, a large picture of the First
Presidency of the Church, handsome gilt
frame, was given by friends in Farmington,
the home of Brother and Sister Clark; a
handsome white French clock with gilt
ornaments from their children. From W.
O. Clark and wife, a gold ring and spectacles
for Sister Clark and gold headed cane for
Brother Clark. Rhoda Cooper, Santa Rosa,
gold belt buckle Sister Clark and gold
headed cane Brother Clark; handsome gold-
finish fruit dish Lewis Cooper and family
California, Geo. W. Clark and his Sister
Cora Gilbraith two silver cups gold lined. 
Jewel case Dr. and Mrs Ezra Clark Rich-
nut dish, silver and gold Dr. C. F. and Mrs.
Wilcox, salt set gold, in pale green plush and
silk case Mrs. G. A. Tupper Santa Rosa.
Mrs. H. O. Clark, San Francisco, gold tea
spoon engraved in bowl with Cliff House,
the handle California emblem the bear,
shovel and pan of gold, San Francisco in-
scribed on scroll—Nellie and Holly Clark,
souvenir spoons solid gold in filagree, work
engraved with the golden gate San Francis-
co, Miss Netta and Miss Nellie Richardson
California, desert spoon gold, handsomely
engraved; there were also other presents of
less value. The wedding cake which was
very elaborately decorated, was cut and
friends were permitted to take pieces home.
	Doxology was sung and the benediction
pronounced by Bishop Secrist and the wed-
ding guests separated, feeling the evening
had been an enjoyable one and long to be
remembered.


