[Column 2]
God who could hear and answer the prayers
of those who had faith in Him.
	I had read much in the Bible and won-
dered often what I could do to gain that
peace which the world could neither give
nor take away. I prayed many years for
this and searched for it among the churches,
but could not find it.
	In August, 1846 I was left a widow with
two small children, and had the asthma
very bad; was also troubled with fits. I
suffered fifty-one months, went to many
physicians but could get no relief; they
said I must go to the Great Physician as he
only could cure me. My answer to one of
them was: "Doctor, do you think I am
going to die and leave my little babes? No!
the Lord will not allow that.” I suffered
on but in answer to my prayers my life was
spared and I had power given to me to
obtain a living and had friends raised up to
me in times of need.
	One after another would say, “Come to
meeting.” I went, but could hear nothing
but “Believe and be saved.” I read my
Bible and prayed earnestly that I might re-
ceive an understanding of the same, where-
by I might obtain that which I had desired
so long.
	In the spring of 1851 an Elder of the
Church at West Bromwich, England, was
moved upon to send me a few copies of the
“Millennial Star.” He had never seen me
previous to this time. I read them over
and through the Spirit of the Lord which I
had prayed so long for, my understanding
was opened and I received much light and
knowledge.
	I attended an Easter sociable in company
with members of the Church and had a
time of rejoicing and was further enabled to
investigate the principles of the Gospel.
While doing so my deceased husband ap-
peared to me, smiled, spoke to me three
times, and departed, satisfying me that he
was pleased with the course I had taken. I
went to meeting regularly and saw a man
who for eight weeks had walked on crutches;
he was administered to by those holding
authority and was promised by them that
he should leave his crutches and walk
home. This he did. He bore a testimony
to the truth of the work and that God had
through His servants cured him. This
encouraged and increased my faith, and I
prayed three times each day that He might
cure me as he had that man, and I promised
that I would praise His name as long as He
would permit me to live. I heard of the
gift of tongues, and fasted and prayed that
I might witness the same at the Wednesday
meeting. I went and received answer to
my prayer to my satisfaction as part of the
interpretation was for me. “Unto you who
are not of this Church, thus saith the
Spirit of the Lord, if ye have faith and re-
pent of your sins, arise and be baptized in
the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the
remission of the same and you will receive
the desire of your heart in righteousness,
and be healed of all your infirmities.
	Two days later I went into the water and
was baptized and heard a voice say, “My
yoke is easy, my burden light.” I left my
affliction in the water and from that day to
this I have had no fits. I can testify that
I was healed by the power of God; I knov
that He lives and that He sent a prophet in
this age and that the sick are healed if
they have faith in Him. I have seen many
things to confirm me in the faith and stimu-
late me onward. I pray that I may be

[Column 3]
humble, and faithful to what I know to be
true. Let others do as they will my desire
is to serve God and keep His holy Com-
mandments; then I know he will give me
all I desire in the end for I know He is
holy, just and true. “Glory, honor, praise,
and power be unto the Lamb forever.”


