LUCY A. CLARK.
IN A GREEN and shady bower,
	Where the creeping ivy's twine
Flowers and mossy velvet carpet
	Is a picture grand, sublime.
'Neath the bower a form is seated,
	Manly, noble-browed and just
And beside a lovely maiden
	Greets his smile with fervent trust.
They are gazing on the future
	Loving hearts they both enfold,
Plighted vows they cast together
	In affection's sacred mold.
Close beside a bark is anchored,
	In a pure and sparkling stream,
In they step and from its moorings
	Float away on life's young dream.
On they float and every shadow 
	That apears upon the scene,
Vanishes before affection's
	Bright and glittering holy gleam.
Years pass by and still they're floating,
	And the vows they made in youth,
Have grown purer, dearer, stronger
	While they've labored for the truth.
Such devotion makes them happy,
	When they reach the golden shore,
Where bedecked with well-earned laurels
	They will dwell for ever more.

	President Hess spoke briefly of his mis-
sions and other experiences; his being
called to go in the Mormon Battalion; spoke
of the privations and hardships encountered
by the brethren who went in that company.
	Wm. O. Clark, of California, made a sort
of brief review of his life; mentioned seeing
Joseph and Hyrum in Clay County, Mis-
souri, when he came off a mission, and the
people were leaving Missouri and going
over into Iowa, pell mell. He told Joseph
then of Isaac and Abel Galland. One of
them owned 160 acres of land across the
Mississippi, in Commerce, which the people
could get on easy terms. Joseph said, "we
must go there and rest." The people went
and built up Nauvoo; referred to the time
when the Apostle, David Patten, was shot,
and his father imprisoned in Ray County,
Missouri. There were no charges against
him; his innocence was proven. Since
those days he had traveled in Europe, Asia,
Africa, East India and Japan. He had
been among the Buddhists. Father Smith
had placed his hands upon his head and
said, "You shall have the privilege of going
among the crowned heads of the world;" he
had been in two railroad smash ups and left
for dead; had the plague in Egypt, Cairo,
and had not expected to live, but he looked
in his Bible, and found courage; knew he
would recover; there were three hundred
foreigners there in despair, but he recov-
ered. On the sea he was at one time five
days and nights in darkness and storms;
the voice said to him, "You shall see home
in peace." Then I thought of this people-
the world will come to this people, and
when banks fail we shall have the world

