her the blessed reflection that they were all
the children of a great and common Father,
even God. In what ever way they might
differ, they were all reaching after the truths
of God, and reaching out after God if
haply He might be found; their hopes and
aspirations were all reaching in one direc-
tion. In one passage of scripture it was
written: "Be strong and of good courage;
be not afraid, neither be thou deceived, for
the Lord thy God is with thee wheresoever
thou goest." If there was anything that
must have inspired the hearts of the pioneers
as they crossed the plains it must have been
the consciousness that they would receive,
as a portion of God's children God's care.
This must have been the feeling of the
people as they journeyed to and opened up
this vast territory. Strength and courage
and faith were needed. 
	Certain things were required to make a
man or a woman's character. In some
places the word "man" did not mean wo-
man also; but in Utah she hoped it meant
both, and as such she would use it. The
word "man" had come by usage in the
East to mean woman also when it had refer-
ence to hard work, sacrifice and toil; but it
meant "man" only when glory and power
and comfort were referred to. She hoped
that in Utah it meant man and woman al-
ways in toil, in glory, in comfort, each and
altogether. It should refer to all human-
kind—man and woman—who are willing to
stand up for the truth, whatever that truth
might be. They all needed strength of
character. Entering upon the responsibili-
ties of statehood she believed it necessary
for every man and woman to be strong.
Women had been taught to be meek and de-
pendent, and not to feel that strength and
dignity which they ought as children of
God; but in this better day it means that
the sons of men are the sons of women.
No man could be strong unless the mothers
of men are strong, and therefore it was as
necessary for mothers to be strong as it was
for the fathers to be strong. It was as
necessary for mothers to display courage
and steadfastness to principle, as it was for
the fathers to exhibit the same character.
She believed that wherever God had a
strong and mighty people, He would lead
them wheresoever He willed, and no evil
would befall them if they put their trust in
Him. She knew that the influences of
environment were strong, and a great many
people in the world believed that these
could not be overcome. She believed, how-
ever, that very often men were as
responsible for circumstances as circum-
stances were for them. Many people had
come to feel that sin was not quite as much
sin as it used to be; that crime is a disease;
that a sinner is- a diseased person; and
people were not made to feel as much as
they ought to feel the power of responsibil-
ity; that every man and every woman stand
responsible to God for the deeds done in the
body. She believed in preaching every-
where the doctrine which made every man
and every woman feel the responsibility of

[Column 3]
lite, and the dignity and nobility of
character. In regard to the influences of
environment, she believed in the power of
the spirit of Almighty God being able to
lift men above such influences, and make 
them a power in this life, and a glory to God
in the life to come.
	Some things were necessary for every man
and woman in this direction, and the most
important of all was, that which would tend
to strengthen character—moral courage, the
courage that would enable every man and
woman to stand up for principle, for truth,
for right, as the right was revealed to them.
She knew there were a great many people
who said that women were weak and there-
fore ought to have no voice in the govern-
ment of the country; that they had no
muscle big enough to defend the country; 
and there were many who believed that
physical strength and powers were greater
than moral courage, but it should be re-
membered that the strength of nations did
not depend upon muscle, but upon the
head and heart of the people of the nation,
and surely no one could deny that women
were possessed of both of these. She
meant moral courage, which enabled men
and women, out of the current of thought
which is issued out upon the world, and
the many theories that are presented—to
dig out of these those thoughts and theories
that seemed to be true, and then stand up
and defend them with all the power that
God had given them; defend them with
every energy of their nature; defend them
though the world might not believe the
truth. She believed in the right of every-
body to search for the truth, and, having
found it, defend it regardless of all conse-
quences. Everybody did not do so. It
was hard to turn aside from those with
whom they had been associated in times
past. But it was the duty of every man
and woman to stand up for principle. The
strength of this great nation of ours did
not lie, as she said a moment ago, in armed
forces. It was only through the men of
moral corage—men, who having a con-
viction, would stand up and defend it to the
last—that we might help to come to the
people. Whenever a man told her that wo-
men were unfit to take part in the affairs of
the country, it was well to remind them that
there was another kind of power that was over
and above physical power. Here the lady
related an instance of a huge dog having
entered a church in which she was preach-
ing. It of course attracted the attention of
the whole congregation. Several men tried
to drag the dog to the door, but he returned
to the front, and it seemed as if he intended
to wend his way up to the pulpit. Now, to
have a dog in the pulpit would be a great
deal worse than having a woman there.
Finally, as the dog wandered up the aisle, a
little boy, about eight years of age, who
had that look upon his face that made one
feel that he was kind to all sorts of animals,
put out his hand, clapped the dog, talked
kindly to it, led it down the aisle to the door, 
and the dog trotted down the street as
though he were glad to go. Here was a
power mighter than physical power. It


