[Column 1]
the toilsome sweating? And if a wife and
mother does the sweating over somebody’s
washing to help earn the daily bread while
the appointed toiler shirks his part and
lounges around polling booths or street cor-
ners discussing politics or woman’s rights
with cultured intelligence and profound
forethought (!) who would be so bold as to
proclaim that he is evading the law, dis-
torting the designs of his Creator, unsexing
himself, endangering the peace and comfort
of the home? Ah, no, woman must have
her rights; her rights to bear children in
sorrow and to rear them in like manner;
to yield gently, willingly to the rule of her
husband, to keep dutifully within the sphere
which he may limit and, in addition, bear a
heavy share of his burden beside. His
sphere who shall limit; his actions who
shall criticise; his unerring judgment who
shall question?
	Poor woman! There is danger to society,
to the home, to the children, if she be
trained to think; if her mind should wan-
der beyond her care of socks and buttons
and puddings, beyond fashion and the tire-
some dulness of conventional society.
Danger to society if she should be given a
personal incentive to study anything but
fashion and housekeeping. She may study
government for the sake of her influence
over male relatives, but it must be purely
from such feminine standpoint—not with
any hope of casting a personal vote for what
she may feel in her soul to be right. Influ-
ence! If her influence is of any use, or if it
can be admitted what is the danger of her
personal ballot with it? But that would be
unwomanly, and some one else might have
to rock the cradle or hold the baby while
she cast it. There is danger to society if
she gain a little ascendancy over her ages
and ages of subordination and oppression;
if, by giving her the ballot, whereby she
could help protect herself and the interests
of her fireside, she should gain a little self-
respect and command the respect of her
brother who knows too well, and does not
always forget to remind her, that she may
have ever so earnest and anxious convic-
tions, when he goes to the polls any value-
less son of Adam so long as he can stagger
there if it be in a drunken stupor, is worth
more than the whole union of intelligent
womanhood.
	Canaan fell under the heavy curse of ser-
vitude in the tents of his brethren, but the
intelligence of the age has seen fit to de-
clare that he has served long enough, and
that emancipation was but his human right.
But woman must never be emancipated
from the curse of Eve! All classes may rise
higher and higher toward the golden age of
perfection, attainment and power, but her
inferiority is a patent truth, “briefly and
forcibly expressed.” Adam still never for-
gets to make grimaces at her from behind
the tree and to remind her that “the woman,
she gave it me and I did eat.” “Though
at first so ready to yield to the tempter, she
has ever since been so ready to yield to the
voice of God” that even Mr. Roberts ac-
knowledges her, man’s moral superior. But
no faithfulness, no self-abnegation, no in-
tellectual attainment in her can ever satisfy
the demands of justice or lift her beyond
“the great truth” that she is a mentally in-
ferior creature, without inherent right to
rule herself or to consent to the laws which
she will be compelled to obey.
	Mr. Roberts forestalls opinions as to his
coldness or tyranny by referring to his life
of which he great public knows nothing

