WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Truly, "oratory is not argument, nor
rhetoric reason!" The reports of the
speeches for and against equal suffrage at
the Convention lie before me and have been
examined with the deepest care and anxiety.
When I learned that there would be serious
opposition I expected that opposing cham-
pions would arm themselves with a com-
prehension of the subject and that their ar-
guments would be well-nigh unanswerable,
never dreaming that we should only have a
re-hash of the old ignorant prejudices and
bug-bears connected with the proper atten-
tion of women to the creature comforts of
their families, and the wreck of homes. I am
once more reminded practically of what
Geo. W. Cable once said: "I have never
seen an argument against woman suffrage
that was not flimsy. Men are much dis-
posed to exaggerate the difficulties of voting
intelligently when they talk of women
voting. By the time a public question is
ready for the popular vote it has become a
very simple question that requires little
more than honesty and common sense to
vote upon it. If our mothers are not fit to
vote they ought to stop bearing sons."
	The only one of the opposition one would
deign to run a tilt with is the redoubtable
hero (?) "from Davis."
	And as the "gentleman from Davis" was
so lionized we must examine his arguments
and ascertain what they are worth. Argu-
ment! Oratory there may have been to such
as sat under the spell of his voice. But
logic! Argument! Are they not mainly
conspicuous by absence? In his last speech
he throws a withering disdain upon the
poet as if he were quite too weak and
"soulful" to appreciate the majestic flights
of the orator. He, too, is magnanimous!
He is "in earnest—terribly in earnest"—
and for what? A threadbare, ragged, worn
out prejudice, or the music and tinkling
symbols of his voice? It would have been
more to his honor had he been armed with
something of the 'logic, philosophy and in-
cisiveness" he so bitterly mocked.
	But behold the terrible forces which he
has marshaled to the contest! And, especi-
ally, forget not the dramatic courage of a
hero digging his political grave in defense
of wrong and oppression! Ah, he was tre-
mendously in earnest about that grave, but
he was not without strong faith that he
should dump the majority of the Conven-
tion into its gloomy depth before himself,
and then, having killed the dragon "that
had risen from the ashes of the past to
plague them," and having scattered the
dragon's teeth by mighty oratory, he no
doubt hoped to see the armed giants rising
up out of the earth, terrible as an army
with banners to scare away the Tyrians
(the women) and follow him as their leader
to the erection of Thebes or the monument
of man, sole, unquestioned monarchy in
government. The poet! Heaven's blessing
rest ever upon him as the faithful, prophetic
watcher on the tower, catching the first
dim ray of advancing truth; and the orator,
if he were but careful, too, to "sharpen his
arrows in the silent surroundings of his
private study" that he might be armed
with thought, and if sincere prayer for
right enlightened his soul with truth, we
would not quarrel with his calling, either.
But when it becomes mere music to catch
the ovations of the multitude we are re-
minded of another poet who, after all, be-
ing but a poet, and a "poor, blind old

