[Column 2]
tives of the husband from the East and the
West, who had taken the long journey that
they might be present and do honor on
such a memorable occasion of a dear rela-
tive and friend. President Wilford Wood-
ruff and wife, of Salt Lake City; Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, General President of the Re-
lief Society, and several other sisters from
Salt Lake City; also Prof. J. M. Tanner
and Dr. C. F. Wilcox and wife were pres-
ent by invitation; also President J. W.
Hess and wife, of Davis Stake, and his
counselor, Hiram Grant and wife; Bishop
Secrist and wife, of Farmington; Mrs.
Susan Grant, President of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake, and many intimate
friends. Among the relatives from a dis-
tance we must mention Wm. O. Clark, of
San Francisco, an older brother of the
bridegroom, who had performed the mar-
riage ceremony of Brother and Sister Clark
fifty years before in Lee County, Iowa;
also the eldest sister, who had, at the great
age of 85 years, come to help celebrate this
happy union after half a century of experi-
ence in wedlock. There were many other
younger people, some not so very young,
either, yet all were welcomed to the gener-
ous hospitality of the venerable couple,
who looked quite as smiling and happy,
and almost as timid (one would imagine)
as on the day when they were first united
in the holy bonds of matrimony. Then
they were young and had the future spread
out before them, but they were poor in this
world's goods, for it was just shortly after
the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
the Latter-day Saints were plunged in sor-
row and mourning. Now these good
people are heads of families of more than
one generation, besides having prospered
temporally and secured to themselves an
everlasting inheritance through the order of
celestial marriage.
	The program of the evening opened with
music (instrumental) night march, by John
Tupper, grand nephew of Brother Clark's
from Santa Rosa. Then the company
sang "Come let us anew," etc., after
which prayer was offered by President Hess,
and the favorite hymn by Sister Eliza R.
Snow was sung by a choir of young people,
Brother Steed, of Farmington, who has a
fine voice, leading, the others joining in.
A wedding march from "Martha" was
finely executed on the piano.
	There were some remarks by W. O.
Clark, and allusions to the marriage which
had taken place fifty years before, men-
tioned his own persecutions in connection
with the Church in Missouri, and the driv-
ings from place to place, and spoke of his
travels in foreign countries, and how his
life had been preserved in the midst of
dangers by sea and by land, and the prom-
ises, that had been pronounced upon his
head in the early days were veri-
fied and his faith was firm in the Lord.
	President Woodruff spoke of the sacredness
of the marriage relation when the ceremony
had been performed in the house of the
Lord and was binding upon the parties for
time and for all eternity, and the blessings
it brought to all associated therewith and
bore a strong testimony of the Gospel be-
fore the people present. Related the cir-
cumstance of President Young coming into
the valley in his carriage, and told what
he said when he looked out upon the valley
below—alluded to the prophecies of Joseph
in earlier days and their literal fulfillment;
spoke of endowments given under the

[Column 3]
hands of Joseph the prophet, and stated
that he was the only man living now
who had received these holy ordinances un-
der the hands of Joseph Smith; gave some
items concerning the last testimony of the
prophet; he said to the audience you may
take every instance on record of any man,
you cannot find any such revelation as was
given to Joseph when only a boy; he called
the boys from the field, the plow, and the
shop, and the result is the Gospel has been
preached to the people in their own homes,
and they have gathered here; it was the
will of God we should come, the rich
treasures are hid up here and we are build-
ing Temples and the people go into them
and redeem the dead, it is the work of the
holy priesthood; Joseph Smith prophesied
of these things, of the Temples, that would
be built and the great work that would be
done. President Woodruff spoke of the
future the life beyond, said we can all go to
a kingdom such as we live for, when we
pass behind the vail we shall know; the
vail to him seemed very thin. We should
strive to do our duty and to do good to all
mankind, referred to many other things,
times and places.
	Supper was announced and about one
hundred and fifty people were seated at
once at the five tables arranged on the plat-
form, handsomely decorated with flowers
and loaded with the good things nature re-
quires for her sustenance besides delica-
cies of a great variety. The blessing was
pronounced by Brother Hiram Grant, and
after the banquet, expressions of good feel-
ing were given by many of those present.
James Smith Stevenson, Prof. J. M. Tanner,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, E. B. Wells and
the aged sister of Brother Clark, Rhoda
Cooper who sung a few verses and then re-
lated some of her experience in Far West,
Mo., when her house was burned by the
mob, and the people fled in the night by the
light of their burning homes. Brother
Nathan Porter who spoke immediately after
said he had been on a mission with Brother
Cooper in the Prophet's life time. After,
the guests had spoken the remainder of the
company sat down to the banquet and the
exercises in the hall were resumed.
	A poem was read by Ezra Robinson which
was a glowing tribute to the aged couple;
music by Mrs. Nellie Clark; Professor J.
M. Tanner paid a beautiful and eloquent
tribute to the pioneers. particularly to
President Woodruff, who had come into
this valley when there was no house and no
white man to be seen.
	President Woodruff followed Professor
Tanner with general remarks concerning
the settling of these vales, and spoke of
driving his carriage out on the block where
the Knutsford hotel is now located. Referred
to the growing public sentiment in our favor,
how wonderfully things had changed in the
last few years, and how forcibly these things
had come to his mind on the journey East
of the Tabernacle choir accompanied by the
First Presidency, when the company were re-
ceived with so much honor at all the points
en route; par[-]icularly had he been reminded
of the past Missouri experiences when in
St. Louis, and also at Independence, where
the people were received by the dignitaries
of the city, and in fact were given a perfect
ovation.
	In Chicago they were treated with the
greatest respect and shown every attention.
Many great men had visited the Presidency
here, and been greatly attracted by the pub-
lic buildings, especially the Temple and


