IN MEMORIAM.

	In loving remembrance of Ella Olivia, beloved
daughter of Benjamin W. and Olivia Pratt
Driggs, who died at Plessant Grove, Oct. 21st.
1883, aged twenty-three years, six months and
twenty-one days.
	Our dear one has gone, though we can scarcely
realize the extent of our loss in the suddeness of
our bereavement. But when we visit the fam-
iliar places where we have been acustomed to
see her, we will miss the bright face, the gay
smile and the pleasant word that always greeted
us. We will miss her sweet voice in our sacred
worship, in our social reunions, in our griefs and
in our joys. And her last song was, "Think of
me kindly when I am gone." We will think
kindly of darling Ella every time we hear one of
the hundreds of sweet songs she sang.
	It was hard to say our sad farewell, and to see
her borne from the loving gaze of family and
friends in the fair bloom of her youth, but we do
not think of her with sorrow inconsolable, for
we know that she is happy with the blest, and
we feel as our sweet friend used to sing, "He
doeth all things well."
Farewell, dear Ella, sorrowing hearts now almost
	breaking,
	Would fain have kept thee had it been His will;
But since thy spirit is of heavenly joys partaking,
	The thought of thy blest lot our hearts with peace
	shall fill.

	DIED, at Enterprise, Morgan Co., September 14th,
1883, Sister Margaret Kirkman Green, after long pro-
tracted suffering, which she bore with great fortitude.
	She was born April 17th, 1817, at Manchester, Eng-
land, and when three years of age went with her par-
ents to Africa, she there joined the Church, being bap-
tized at Fort Beaufort, South Africa, 1854. Emigrated
to Utah in 1863 with five children and a granddaughter,
leaving her husband whom she expected would follow
the next year, but he never came; he died about a year
ago. She has one married daughter still in Africa.
	At the organization of the Relief Society of Enter-
prise Ward Sister Green was chosen President, and
faithfully discharged the duties of that position until
long continued sickness caused her to resign.
	She was a true and affectionate mother and a faithful
friend. Her faith in the Gospel was firm to the last.
						MARY HALL, Secretary.

	IN memory of Emma Olivia Croft, wife of John Croft
of Enterprise, Morgan Co., who died of dropsy and
heart disease September 29th, 1883. Sister Croft was
President of the Ward Relief Society, having been ap-
pointed to that position on the resignation of the late
Sister Green. She was also an able assistant in the
Sunday School, a duty she took great delight in. Dur-
ing her last illness she expressed a wish that the child-
ren should attend her funeral and strew flowers into
her grave, which request was complied with. She was
born at Rolston, Staffordshire, England, Feb. 16th, 1821.
Her many excellent qualities and good actions will long
be remembered by those who knew her.
							MARY HALL, Secretary.

	DIED, at the residence of her daughter in the 2nd
Ward, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Mary Laird, on October 20th
1883, of pneumonia.
	Deceased was born July 3rd, 1826, in Kilpatrick, Par-
ish of Kilpatrick, Denfrewshire, Scotland. Baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
November 22nd, 1843, under the hands of James Thom-
son, Glasgow Branch, Scotland. She was the daughter
of Hugh Renney and Elizabeth Checlman. She was
married to James Laird August 27th, 1847, at Darby,
Scotland. Emigrated to America in November, 1856,
Crossed the plains in J. G. Wooley's handcart company.
She lived at Mountain Dell Ward, and was President
of the Relief Society there. She leaves to mourn her
departure a loving husband, two sons, two daughters

[Column 2]
and twenty-two grand children. She was the mother
of four sons and six daughters. She lived and died a
faithful Latter-day Saint, looking forward to all the
promises of God pertaining to His latter-day work.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Susan Clay-
son, who departed this life October 16th, 1883.
	Whereas an alwise Providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Susan Clayson, the loss of an able, efficient and
worthy counselor of the Primary Association and teach-
er of the Relief Society of Payson Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother, and a good and respect-
ed citizen.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be furnished the
bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the
Territorial Enquirer for publication.
	Fannie Sargent, Matilda Dixon, Sarah Brewerton,
Amy Hancock, Presidents of the four districts of Pay-
son Ward.
				Yours Respectfully,
					MILLIE STARKER, Secretary.


The Woman's Congress and the Illinois So-
cial Science Association have both been in ses-
sion in Chicago during October.
	The Woman Suffragists feel a little exultant
over the triumph of their cause in Washing-
ton Territory Legislature, October 17th, when
the majority vote was in favor of the ballot
for women.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

