FORTUNE TELLING.

	I know this subject will be interesting to
most, if not all the young ladies who read the
EXPONENT. I have long wished that I could
express my views to the young ladies upon this
subject, but a fear that I should not do the
subject justice, has caused me to neglect it. I 
scarcely expect my views to harmonize with
those of all the young people, but I hope and
believe that there are some who will agree with
me. Young ladies, do you know who you are?
Well, I think I hear some young ladies say,
we think we do. Exactly, you think you do.
Well, now, to my mind if you understand who
you are, who placed you here upon this fair
earth, and what you were placed here for, you
will never need to go to some one who shuffles
a pack of cards, or turns a teacup to find out
what your fortune is. Is there a young lady
that can truthfully say that she has learned
that which made her feel happier, and brought
that spirit of peace, joy and comfort which the
Holy Spirit brings? I scarcely think that
young ladies who pray and attend their meet
ings will think of visiting fortune tellers, for
the Comforter has been bestowed upon all those
who have been baptized into the Church, and
its office work is to bring things past to our re-
membrance and teach us of things to come,
and take of the things of the Father and show
them unto us; we have prophets to guide and
direct us and warn us of danger, and by means
of prayer and a godly life there is an open
channel of communication between us and our
Father in Heaven; He can always communi-
cate to us anything that it is important for us 
to know, and it is highly important for us to
keep this channel open and free, that the still
small voice may always find a ready response
in our hearts, and live so that we may be able
to distinguish it from the promptings of the ad-
versary. Whatever God withholds from us,
after praying to him for knowledge concerning
the future, we may be quite sure is not intend-
ed for us to know, and if He will not reveal
the future to us we had better be without the
knowledge; many times if we knew the trials
which await us we would not be so well pre-
pared to pass through them as we are when
kept in ignorance of them until they come. At
all events God's way is the best way, and we
would lessen our troubles by learning it early.
Some one may ask, Did you never have your
fortune told? Oh, yes, I have tried both ways
and know whereof I write, and I would advise
all to cultivate the Holy Spirit, and it will
guide them into all truth, and reveal to them
those things that are proper for them to know.
	October, 1883.	RUTH.


