OBJECT IN LIFE.

	I think we should all examine our hearts,
and seek to purify ourselves. We certainly
all have some object in life, and should ask
ourselves seriously what that object is, and


what the result of it might be. I saw an ac-
count of some leading American women going
to start a reform in dress, instead of following
after the harlots and disreputable women of
Paris. I think it is time every honest hearted
woman threw off the shackles which makes
slaves, by trying to imitate those whose only
aim is to lead to destruction and ruin.
	It is more than eight years since we made
the resolution to try and create our own fash-
ions, such as would be conducive to health and
comfort. Do we all think of this when we go
to make a dress? I hope so, and I think we
should guard against too much adornment, for
it shows that we worship the god of the world
instead of our Father in Heaven, for He has
said, "Let your garments be plain, and the
beauty thereof the workmanship of your own
hands." I think, sometimes, there will be a
great change before we as a people carry out
this principle, for imported things can be got
cheaper than they can be manufactured here,
but we all know home made articles are much
better. Then let us begin to encourage home
talent; there are many things that could be
made here, neckties and collars, hoods, jackets
stockings and other little things could be net-
ted, crocheted and knit. I do not mean for
every mother to do her own if she can't con-
veniently, but if these things were more en-
couraged there is plenty of ingenuity to make
them. And would it not be much better for
many of the young to learn to create some-
thing instead of using so much time in making
dresses for show? When Babylon falls we
will certainly have to make them or go without.
So let our object in life be to be honest, iudus-
trious, and do all the good we can, that in the
end we may feel that our days have been well
spent.	Your sister in the Gospel,
			MARY J. MORRISON.
	Manuscript Paper, "Young Ladies Herald of
Union." Spanish Fork, Oct. 16, 1883.


