INTERESTING REPORT.

	A Conference of the Relief Societies of the
Sandwich Islands was held at Laie, Oct. 5th,
1883.
	On the stand, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, Mrs.
Armeda S. Young; native Counselors, Kaahanui
and Nalie; also Pres. E. Partridge, J. H. Gard-
ner and W. G. Farrell. Meeting was called
to order by Pres. Partridge. The Society of
Laie having formed themselves into a choir for
the occasion, and being dressed in white, arose
and sang one of the old songs that used to be
sung when Brother George Q. Cannon was on
the Islands, and which was composed by Bro.
R. Allred. Prayer by Kaahanui. Singing.
There are fifteen societies organized on the dif
ferent Islands at the present time, from all of
which written reports were read except one.
Verbal reports were also given of nearly all by
Presidents or Counselors of the different socie-
ties, which reports showed them to be in a
flourishing condition. The figures of the con-
densed reports were as follows: Number of mem-
bers April 5th, 1883, 332; died, 17; removed,
17; new members, 67; total number of mem-
bers Oct. 5th 1883, 345; amount of money in
the treasury on April 5th, 1883, 330,13;
amount donated since April, 272, 79 1/2; given to
the poor, 55,20; expended for other purposes,
144,30; amount in the treasury Oct. 5th, 1883,
403,39 1/2.
	A few remarks were made by Sisters Part-
ridge and Young, and interpreted by President
Partridge, who also addressed the meeting a
short time, instructing them in their duties
and encouraging them in their labors.
	Most of the money paid out of the treasury
has been donated by the different societies to
assist in building a house for the use of the so-
ciety at Laie; it is considered necessary for
them to have such a house, not only for the ac-
comodation of the poor but for other purposes.
It would be hard indeed for anyone who has
not had the experience to understand the many
difficulties to be overcome in trying to introduce
and establish these societies among a people so
simple in their understandings, and so unaccus-
tomed to anything of the kind, aside from the,
to me, almost insurmountable difficulty of learn-
ing the native language, it is a labor which re-
quires indefatigable exertions, and patience

[Colmun 2]

without any limit, with a firm reliance upon
our Heavenly Father for guidance, strength,
and the necessary qualifications to fit us for the
duties of the mission. I can see two or three
different ways in which I could spend every mo-
ment of my time to good advantage, but have
to content myself with doing what I can and
letting the rest go undone. Our Conference
and the visit of the king passed off with an ex-
cellent spirit, and in a satisfactory manner in
every respect; we all regretted the absence of
the queen, who was unavoidably deterred from
coming by the serious illness of her sister, the
governess of Hawaii, who also intended com-
ing until she was taken sick. I will leave an ac-
count of the reception of the king to more in-
teresting correspondents than myself.
	A Primary Association was organized by
President Partridge, on the 19th of August,
Mrs. S. L. Partridge acting as President for
the present, and Mrs. Armeda S. Young First
Counselor, and Hanaa, native woman, Second
Counselor, and Victoria Kekauoha, Secretary
for the native language, Ernest Partridge in
the English, with 39 names enrolled. Here
again is the difficulty of trying to teach child-
ren without having sufficient knowledge of the
language to explain things in clearness and
the perfect understanding of the children;
however, we can only do our best, trusting that
the Lord will bless our efforts. We are very
much in need of cards and books, so as to assist
us in making our meetings interesting to the
children, also to ourselves.
	Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
