BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	At early twilight on the 3rd of February a
messenger was sent by my father, informing
H. K. Whitney and myself that this day fin-
ished their work in the Temple, and that we
were to present ourselves there that evening.
The weather being fine we preferred to walk;
and as we passed through the little graveyard
at the foot of the hill a solemn covenant we
entered into—to cling to each other through
time and, if permitted, throughout all eternity,
and this vow was solemnized at the holy altar.
Though gay and highminded in many other
things we reverenced the principles taught us
by our parents and held them sacred, also the
covenants which we had previously made in
that house, so much so that we would as soon
have thought of committing suicide as to be-
tray them; for in doing either we would have
forfeited every right or claim to our eternal sal-
vation.
	On the morning of the 4th the sun shone
brightly into the east windows of the Temple,
where a new scene was being enacted. A num-
ber of persons were busily engaged removing
articles of furniture, stoves, carpets and pic-
tures, etc., etc. President B. Young, and Bp.
N. K. Whitney were invited with members of


[Column 1]

their families and a few of our most intimate
friends to attend an infare given at my father's
house in honor of our marriage—reception is
the more modern name, and perhaps the
most proper as things are carried out in these
days. At the wedding reception, which I have
here casually mentioned, was our friend Sister
Emmie, now Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of the
EXPONENT. That evening was the first time
she had ever danced, as she had been brought
up to consider dancing very improper and wick-
ed. We had no glittering surrroundings, nor
had we any use for rich and costly gifts, but
we had what is better, warm and loving hearts,
that were knitted together by past scenes of
sorrow and suffering. It was the pure and
genuine friendship that could neither be
bought nor sold. The lively airs played on
the violin and flute and the bass viol drove
dull care away, and all joined in the merry dance
till the clock struck twelve, when the music
ceased and the blessings of God were invoked
upon us and all of His people, of whatever na-
tion they might be.
	When I was married father told me to never
drop my Kimball name, and for years I kept it
up, but it made my name so lengthy that I
have left it out, only when requested to add it,
but I love the name, and I am oftener addres-
sed by it than any other; I suppose it is owing
to the striking resemblance between us.
	Grandfather Whitney was in Nauvoo at the
time. He had come from Kirtland to receive
the holy ordinances in the Temple, and his
last words to me were, "I shall try and secure
the old homestead, in Kirtland, for you and
Horace; I want you to come and live there by
us." His wife was in Kirtland, and he was tak-
en sick on his way back and died in a day or
two after; and she survived him but a short
time. Her maiden name was Kimball, and her
son, Bishop Whitney, thought so much of her
that he adopted it as a middle name to his
four eldest sons. After he and my father be-
came acquainted in Kirtland they traced rela-
tionship. Both were natives of Vermont, and
the Prophet Joseph afterwards told them that
they were descendants from one and the same
branch of the Priesthood.
	Bishop Whitney said that his father was a 
natural prophet, and he put a great deal of
confidence in his words. He said to Mother
Whitney before leaving Nauvoo for Kirtland:
"I can only see N. K. till he gets to the moun-
tains, but you, Ann, will live a great many
years."
	This was a very hard thing for them to be-
lieve as she had always been a delicate woman
and was subject to habitual spells of sick head
ache, when Bishop Whitney would nurse her,
and he always treated her with the tenderest
care, and had never placed any hardships or
responsibilities upon her. But when on the
23rd of September, 1850, a little over three
years after the arrival of the pioneers Bishop
Whitney took sick and died, leaving his deli-
cate wife to survive him for many years, the
beginning of the prophecies' fulfillment was
made manifest.
	My father had a number of fine boxes made
to order; one he gave to me, and the morning
after I was married he said, "Now, Helen, go to 
and pack up your things." My wardrobe was
not very extensive, but what I had was good,
and I thought they were all that I would get
unless we manufactured the goods ourselvse,
and that would be a long time hence. I had a 
very long riding habit of dark green merino,
which father had brought me from the east; I
had worn it but a few times when we learned
that we were to leave for Mexico. So I put a
deep tuck in the center of the skirt, which was
then all the style, and wore it through the
winter, and it was still a good dress, being a 
strong material. That with a warm hood, muff
and boa made up my travelling suit. Few, I

[Column 2]

suppose, will understand the meaning of josie.
It was made the same as are Mother Hub-
bard dresses, only pleated in folds instead of
gathered, with a cape reaching nearly to the
belt with batting laid between the outside and
lining; these were considered very pretty, and
they were also very comfortable.
	I had some peculiar notions and ideas at
that time concerning our future destiny, and
the following were some of my reflections while
busily engaged packing and tucking away this,
that and the other—boxes containing letters,
notes and cards and many little gifts and tokens
of remembrance, as relics of my infantile and
childhood days, which would have been of lit-
tle value to anyone else, but were all of worth
to me: I thought, woman like, I will pack
away all my little ribbons, collors and laces,
ect., for we are going where we cannot purchase 
them. We are going out from the world to
live beyond the Rocky Mountains where none
others will wish to go, and we are never again
to mingle with Babylon, but remain a distinct
and separate people, where all of our clothing
will be manufactured, and all will be on an
equality.
	There will be neither rich nor poor among us,
and we will have none but the honest and vir-
tuous, and there will be no more snares and
allurements to tempt and lead the youth
wrong. Thus I meditated, but, alas, we found
too soon that "Satan came also." And I have
seen more of Babylon on this side of the 
mountains than I had ever dreamed of or
thought it possible to be in existence. But
time and experience has taught us that these
things were all necessary to prove us, whether
or no we will cleave to the Lord, or to the
Mammon of unrighteousness.
	Being short of wagons and teams, in order
to lighten the load we carried our change of
apparel in bags made convenient for that pur-
pose. We were assisted in onr sewing by two
or more of my father's wives, as there were
clothes to make for the boys and a great deal
to do and a short time to do it in. Harriet San-
ders Kimball came to live with us about a 
week previous to our starting. My mother
first met her at Uncle Joseph Young's, and it
was by much interceding with Sister Young
that she consented to part with her, she being
not only a superior cook, but an excellent
nurse, which Sister Young could appreciate,
being then in feeble health from the hardships
and privations that she had been obliged to en-
dure, like hundreds of others who, like her,
had been driven from State to State, and she
was among those who witnessed the awful
slaughter at Haun's Mill, Missouri.
	My mother's health was then feeble, and
she had three little boys with the whooping
cough—the babe was thirteen months old, who, 
as soon as he commenced coughing, would lose
his breath, and we would have to toss him out
into the cold air, which seemed the only thing
to bring him to. Bishop Whitney's family,
and a great many more were in a similar or
even worse condition. But when they heard
the cry, "To your tents, O Israel!" they left
their comfortable homes and the graves of their
loved ones and followed the voice of the one
whom they knew the Lord had chosen to lead
His people.
	I see by my husband's journal that it was
Monday the 16th that "Heber C. Kimball and
family left their home and repaired to the en-
campment on Sugar Creek," and that Presi-
dent Young had gone the day before. The
wagons father had sent ahead as fast as they
were loaded, and he with mother and family
were invited to stop and take dinner with Hi-
ram Kimball and wife, our respected sister,
Sarah M. Kimball. The day was pleasant but 
the weather freezing. My husband returned
and came over to camp next day.
	The following extracts are from Sister Jane

[Column 3]

B. Taylor's journal: "Monday, February 16th.
I left the city of Joseph and crossed the Missi-
sippi river, accompanied by my dear brother
Richard (Ballantyne), Brother William Tay-
lor and Joseph Kaighn. 	*	*	Being
very cold, after crossing the river we stopped
and took the use of a fire that had been built
and made ourselves a cup of coffee. And as
we had two cows along we had no lack of
milk.	*	*	While thus engaged He-
ber C. Kimball came across and expressed his
satisfaction in seeing me on my way to Califor-
nia. Having got ourselves warmed with our
hot coffee, William and I mounted the wagon
*	*	*	and started a little after sun-
down. Helen Kimball, daughter of H. C. 
Kimball, rode along side of our wagon until
she became so cold that she could not sit on
her pony. She stopt and we gave her some
wine, and Brother Dickson kindled a fire, and
we sat around and warmed ourselves. We
reached the camp at Sugar Creek about seven
o'clock." This, like a thousand other inci-
dents, had passed from my memory till Sister
Taylor reminded me.
	The pony that I rode belonged to my brother
Heber. It was first purchased for William
from a lady in Illinois, who had named it
"Happy go lucky," but William having grown
too large and heavy for it gave it to Heber. It
was a gentle little animal and stood about
three feet and a half high. Many a happy go
lucky ride I had taken over the prairies, and
when it paced or galloped it was as easy as a 
cradle. At Sugar Creek father's men had
pitched a tent and put up a sheet iron stove at
one end, and great log fires were burning all
through the camp. When we had warmed
ourselves we made our beds upon the ground
and laid down with grateful hearts for so com-
fortable a shelter, and slept soundly till morn-
ing. The snow was deep so that paths had to
be made with spades between the wagons and
tents. Camping out increased our appetites so
that our picnic was very nearly consumed be-
fore the camp was ready to leave Sugar Creek.
We had cooked up a great amount of provis-
ions, consisting of roasted chicken, beef, boiled
hams, pork and beans, bread, rusks and many
other eatables, beside sea biscuits and crackers,
which we could eat and eat and still be hun-
gry. I remember the day that Brigham 
Young called the camp together for the pur-
pose of organization. All the men came to-
gether at the sound of his voice as he stood up
in a wagon and cried, "Attention, the whole
camp of Israel."
	The same day, afternoon, he, with my father,
returned to Nauvoo to assist Brother Joseph
Kingsbury to procure teams. My husband re-
turned the same day to help his father. On
the 19th it began storming, and it was dismal
enough to give even a saint the blues.
	The next day Sarah Lawrence Kimball and
myself went back to Nauvoo where we re-
mained a week, she with her sister, Mariah
Babbit, and I with my husband's family.
	Sunday, 22nd, my father and President
Young returned to camp. The multitude of
teams crossing on the ice caused it to crack
and give way under them, and when we came
there to recross the river there was a slow
drizzling rain, and the ice was floating down
so that we had to remain till towards night,
and then we had some difficulty in getting
across in a skiff. But in a few days the wea-
ther turned so cold that the river froze over in
one night, and by the 28th the church teams
were able to drive over in safety.
	To be Continued.


