VISIT AND REFLECTIONS.

	It would be a pleasure could we give a sketch
of our trip down through Utah Stake with Sis-
ter E. S. Taylor, and afterwards to Nephi with
Sister E. B. Wells; but there were so many
pleasing incidents attending our journeyings
and the interesting Conferences, with the greet-
ing of old friends and making new ones, etc.,
that it would be useless for one to begin as it
would take up too much space. But I can testi-
fy that we found them enjoying a kind spirit
and inspired by the same desire to become one
in spirit and in truth, which we met in every
settlement. I had never before visited farther
than Springville and I confess that I was sur-
prised, more especially to see what a multitude
of intelligent and neatly dressed children, with
such bright, happy and pretty faces that are
growing up in the midst of this people. The ex-
ercises of the Primaries were varied and inter-
esting, and their singing and all was very
charming. The Relief Societies and young peo-
ples Associations, judging from the reports that
were read and the full houses, with the good
order and attention paid to the speakers, were

[Column 2]

interested, and were trying to live up to th
principles of the Gospel, and assist in this great
work of improvement. It is very gratifying to
see what has been accomplished since these as-
sociations were instituted, and I thought, like
the Queen of Sheba, that the half had not been
told us. "A tree is known by its fruits," and 
from all that we saw I should judge that our so-
cieties are working in the right direction. And
these things give the lie to the abominable tales
told about the ignorance, vice and degredation
among the "Mormons," which, though we know
are instigated by pure jealousy, the world are
more than willing to swallow. There are those,
it is true, who are a disgrace, and others that are
drones in the hive. The disaflected ones, who
are always grumbling, are really to be pitied,
for they are standing in their own light. But we
need not wonder that Satan is up in arms and
making good use of the little time that is left
him, for Zion is growing in wisdom and power,
and swiftly spreading over this land of promise.
If God had not been on our side our institutions
would long since have died a natural death, and
Mormonism would not now be in existence.
But the united prayers that have been continu-
ally offered up in behalf of the Latter-day Saints
have been answered, and we have been protect-
ed continually from the hands of our enemies,
or their threats might easily have been carried
into effect.
	"But," the Rev. Dr. Talmage says, "go it
must, or the honor and virtue and life of this
nation will go. What headway can the Church
of God and reformatory institutions make as
long as this organized libertinism and enthroned
indecency are allowed to remain? The men ca-
pable of throttling this evil have not yet come
to the front. I wonder from what state they
will come, and in which Congress they will ap
pear, and what will be the mode of their attack.
Eight hundred captives of Mormondom, under
the care of their captors, allowed on the Sab-
bath day to pass through New York is a mon-
strosity, and of all the calamities of the week is
the most calamitous." O, ye whited sepulchers,
why, all the sins and iniquities that can
be scraped up and gathered from every "Mor-
mon" settlement could not be compared with
the description given by this same Rev. in one
of his best sermons upon the condition of society
where he thrives, and many others of the rich
and pampered Pharisees, who preach only for
hire and divine for money, but utterly refuse to
give the "Mormons" any quarter. We can read
daily of their wickedness and depravity, and
here is one little item published at Detroit,
August 1st; 1883. "At Bay City, this morning,
the bodies of five dead infants were found in a
vault in the rear of Mc Cormick Block." These
are trifling things, which are thought little or
nothing of, and are of every day occurence in
their boasted Christain circles. But such things
are horrifying to Latter-day Saints, who believe
in obeying all the commands of the Almighty,
and we are audacious enough to practice the an-
cient order of the Patriarchs. And we know
that hell is the portion of those who take what
they cannot give, the life of a human being, ex-
cept in self defence. The Rev. Talmage pro-
poses a different mode from Christ's teachings
in the New Testament, that would have told
them of Him who came to seek and save that
which was lost. It is true that a few batteries
opened on the hills around Salt Lake City might
once have put a quietus on the "Mormons," had
they not been held back by a higher power who
declared, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther.' It would be well for such as him to stop
before they arrive at "the day of judgment,"
and consider well their steps, that they pass not
false judgment, for they will have to meet it in

[Column 3]

that day when all must stand before the Bar of
God.
	We have had abundant cause to fear and
shun the smiling hypocrites who have lain wait
to ensnare our youth, and would glory in the
overthrow of our households. How they have
rejoiced and gloated over the ruin of certain ones
who have disobeyed the teachings and counsel re-
ceived from their parents and friends, and been
captivated by the charms and deceitful flattery
of their serpent-like tongues, who will exult and
laugh over the misery and desolation which they
have helped to accomplish, and then undertake
to palm their unholy deeds upon the practice
of the plural order of marriage, as in the case of
young Rich and Smith, but in so doing their
own ignorance and malice is made manifest--
neither of them having been born of what they
term polygamous mothers. They have openly
and insultingly told our youth to rebel against
our teachings as well as every righteous princi-
ple contained in the Gospel of Christ, which
every true Saint has striven so long and dili-
gently to instill into the hearts of their offspring
—encouraging our sons to get drunk, to frequent
gambling cells and houses of ill fame, or any-
thing to break us up, no matter how bad they
become so Mormonism is destroyed. Such will
be made answerable for the greatest sins of our
youth which are laying at the doors of these rep-
tiles in human shape. And they will yet have
to taste more of the bitter dregs of sorrow and
anguish than is now rending the hearts-strings
of those who have loved and cherished these
sons, who, thanks to the abandoned wretches
that have crept into our midst, have become fit
subjects for the criminals cell, God grant that
their example may serve as a deep and lasting
lesson to others who may incline to be wayward
and disobedient, and understand distinctly that
these are some of the choice fruits of Christian
civilizaiton. Yes, and they intend, if possible,
to make our peaceful and orderly cities the same
as their own, which are filled full of vileness
and corruption.
	And now let me say a few words to my young
friends and sisters, for I am interested in their
welfare and wish to see them all made happy.
Had we always lived as we should do could our
enemies have gained so strong a foothold as they
have in our midst? I think not. Had we strict-
ly kept the laws of God and of health, which be-
long to those laws, the destroyer could not have
obtained such a hold upon us, effecting our
bodies and our spirits, taking from us so many of
our loved ones, the little innocents that so twine
themselves around our tenderest heart-strings,
leaving so many stricken and heart broken pa-
rents and friends, who will mourn over their un-
timely death, and their own, seemingly, unjust
and needless bereavements, and often-times
murmur and blame Providence for the same.
But were we willing to search into our own
hearts and cross-question ourselves we might
then learn the true cause. We have all fallen,
and therefore are born and begotten in sin, and
we naturally cleave to the world and the things
of the world, and those who are not very careful
before they are aware of it will have drifted away
into darkness and unbelief, and apostacy is the
sure result. We have witnessed these things
from the very beginning, and know that it
would be far better if we would keep humble,
and always listen to the teachings and admoni-
tions of those whom the Lord appoints and
places as shepherds to guard His fold. We
should not slumber, but be wide awake to the
times and the scenes which are right at our
doors. Our time here is very short and precious,
and should be well spent. The reading of fic-
tion is a loss of time, for in that we can gain no
knowledge nor intelligence pertaining to our


past, present or future existence. Novels are
like husks to those who have once feasted on the
things of God—the pure bread of life, and have
continued to retain that spirit. Satan is manifest-
ing his power, and these spiritual rappings and
mediums, which have turned so many people's
brain, are only forerunners of the great and more
mighty manifestations which are soon to be wit-
nessed from the spirit world. There are mil-
lions of the dead looking to this people to attend
to the ordinances that will redeem and free
them from their prison house, but they will com-
municate in a more intelligent manner than the
present senseless and disgusting mode. We
should beware of Satan, and understand that his
doctrines are generally the first to be introduced,
and we have been warned of his power, which
is to be such in the last days that he will be able
to deceive almost the very elect. And may God
grant that our wisdom, union and faith may in-
crea e until Satan can find no foot-hold nor rest-
ing place in our midst. Then he will be bound,
and can no longer have power to afflict our bod-
ies or spirits.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Oct. 18th, 1883.


