PEOPLE WE MEET.

	In this great world there are various ways
of gaining knowledge. It is often said
knowledge is obtained from books, or by means
of education, meaning such as one gets in the
schools. In one sense of the word this is part-
ly true, but it is very far from being the whole
truth. There are many other methods of ob-
taining knowledge. We hear a gerat deal in
the present day about self-made people, not-
withstanding all the schools, colleges and uni-
versities that cover the land, and from whence
the light of science beams with refulgent rays,
yet after all, these highly educated, college-
learned men seldom make so successful a mark
in the world, as those who struggling with ad-
verse surroundings develop those persistently
enduring qualities that are sure to grapple
with untoward circumstances, and overcome
what would be to the weak insurmountable
obstacles. It is true that experience is a dear
school, and it is also perfectly true tbat its les-
sons are far more impressive than those learned
from books.
	Not to undervalue book education, for that
I would not do, still there are many people who

[Column 2]
know more and can entertain and edify those
they come in contact with, much better than
men of profound learning. It is very pleasant
to be able to learn from people; one of the best
studies in the world is that of human nature as
we find it in the people we meet. And when
we add to that the varied experiences of differ-
ent individuals as they become known to us,
and the many interesting incidents that char-
acterize the life of every person whose history
is worth knowing, what a vast fund of infor-
mation is contained therein.
	For instance, we meet a lady whose life has
been apart from ours, one whom we had never
heard of, and she tells us something of her life-
experience, her peculiar circumstances, we be-
come intensely interested, she has traveled in
foreign lands, seen much of society in the high-
er circles and also associated herself as a phil-
anthropist among the humble, the needy and
the distressed. From her we learn many use-
ful lessons. We find her well posted in the
affairs of the nation, and able to converse in
telligently about the government and the poli-
cy of its statesmen, yet having a personal his-
tory full of material worthy a place in the li-
brary of the novelist. She tells us of the
noble self-sacrifices of her friends who are
striving to elevate others, of their struggles
against the sneers and reproaches of those who
live narrow and selfish lives. O, what
nobility of purpose nerves those, who in the
face of cruel opposition stand boldly forth and
proudly conscious of their superior power to
rise above the common conditions of mortals,
receive from those to whom their ministra-
tions seem almost divine the love and affection
that more than repays them for any annoyance
or self-denial it has caused. The story of a life;
what is it? It is the most intensely interest-
ing, thrilling and pathetic of anything that we
could possibly imagine, no matter whether the
person has traveled by land and sea, or
whether the life has been passed in a country
town without any great changes or interrup-
tions, it still has that peculiarly fascinating
charm that will draw around it that which
awakens the tender emotions of the heart. Let
half a dozen people meet together and each
one tell her peculiar experiences, what a vol-
ume is contained in the simple recitals, and
how much we may avoid what is evil, if we
heed the lessons thus given, or on the other
hand, what incentives there seem to be to pur-
sue an upright, onward course in the attain-
ment of the highest good possible. In this
way we may daily advance in the pursuit of
knowledge; but to do so we must actually
think, must concentrate our ideas, and devote
our energies in the direction to which we as-
pire; a careless, thoughtless person will never
accomplish much, for whatever one does there
must of necessity be work in it.
	We are always telling our young people to
read the biographies of distinguished people,
there is so much to be learned from them; that is
all very true, and the advice is quite proper, but
there is really much to be learned from the
people we meet every day, if we have the fac-
ulty to discern and study character. Not only
that, but the manner and appearance make an
impression, and one desires to emulate that
which is perfect in everything. The society
we associate with helps us to be better or we
retrograde. Improvement is the aim of all
who have even ordinary ambition, and when I
say improvement I do not mean alone in mind,
but in all that helps to make men and women
more perfect in every acquirement, and to be
able to help others as well as themselves. And
I argue that every good and great man or
woman does help mankind, and it should be
the desire of every Latter-day Saint to make
the most of the opportunities given, and in fact
not to wait for opportunities to come, but to
push forward and do all in his or her power

[Column 3]
to obtain knowledge on all subjects in every
way that is right and proper, and above all
ask God for wisdom to aid in the search for
knowledge, and to help us to discriminate be-
tween that which will ennoble and exalt and
that which will be of no advantage here or
hereafter. Seek to emulate those who have
given us the best examples, and look among
men of our own day and time. It is very
common to refer to those who have lived long
ago, patterns of excellence, and to ignore the
good and pure and noble of our own day.
The people we meet in the daily walks of life,
those who are really worth cultivating will
have power to influence us for good in some
direction, if only in our deportment, or con-
versation.
	If we are to prepare ourselves to associate
with angels and holy beings, and this is what
a saint aspires to, we cannot begin too soon,
and laying aside all that is frivolous and emp-
ty, do honor to the position we occupy on this
earth and prepare for an exaltation in the fu-
ture, which we can only obtain by our faith-
fulness, diligence and fervor in all good works.
