BISHOP EDWARD HUNTER.

	This excellent and distinguished man depart-
ed this life on Tuesday evening, October 16,
1883, at his home in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake
City. He was perhaps quite as well known as
any man in the Church, occupying, too, a very
high position, which he was eminently qualified
to fill. Bishop Hunter was a man that every-
body recognized as possessing superior qualities
of head and heart. It was impossible even to
see him without recognizing the fact. The
writer well remembers when she first met him in
Nauvoo. At that time he was in the very zenith
of his manhood, the trusted friend of the proph-
et of God. He was what the world terms a man
of presence. His unflinching integrity, his ad-
herence to principle, his zeal for the right, gave
to his manly character still greater prestige.
He was the friend of the poor and unfortunate,
and these attributes eminently qualified him for
the office of Bishop. He was true as steel to the
Gospel and its interests, and all he possessed he
was ever ready to lay upon the altar for the up-
building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
He gave generously hundreds and thousands of
dollars, at different times, to assist in rolling on
the good work, not grudgingly, but with infinite
pleasure. He was one of nature's noblemen,
physically and mentally endowed with those
magnificient capabilities that mark the man of
destiny. He lived to a good old age, beloved,
honored and respected, and was indeed one
of the few who make no enemies. It might
well be said of him, he has gone as a shock of
corn fully ripe. He has left several sons and
daughters, and his illustrious example is worthy
to be followed by them. His widow must in-
deed be lonely, for to the aged as well as to the
young, death is always an unwelcome visitor,
and when he takes those who are nearest and
dearest, we cannot but mourn even though we
know they were fully prepared and willing
to go.
	Bishop Hunter was born in Newtown, Delaware
Co., Pennsylvania, June 22d, 1793. His parents
were Edward and Hannah Hunter. The ances-
tors of Bishop Hunter were of noble blood, and
the ancestral halls in England are still occupied
by descendants of the same line from which the
Bishop came. Br. Hunter went to Nauvoo soon
after the Saints gathered there from Missouri,
and was afterwards made Bishop of the Fifth
Ward of Nauvoo, ordained under the hands of
Presidents Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball and Newel K. Whitney.
	Bishop Hunter came to the valley in the first
company of families that left Winter Quarters
for the valley, starting after the pioneers, arriv-
ing here early enough to put in a crop, and in
the settlement of the city located in the Thir-

[Column 2]

teenth Ward, of which he was made Bishop,
and held that position until after the death of
Presiding Bishop, Newel K. Whitney. He was
appointed to succeed Bishop Whitney in that
office at the April Conference, 1851, and was al-
so appointed Assistant Trustee in Trust for the
Church. He received his ordination under the
hands of Presidents Heber C. Kimball and Wil-
lard Richards, and he chose at that time, as his
Counselors, Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball.
	Bishop Hunter went back to Winter Quarters
in 1849, to assist the emigration for that season,
and when he returned home he learned of the
death of Bishop Whitney, which had occurred a
short time previous. He had the greatest res-
pect and admiration for the Bishop, and he has
often expressed himself to the writer that his
impression on hearing that the Bishop was
dead was that he would be "called to fill his
friend's place." And it proved true.
	Bishop Hunter assisted in laying the north-
west corner-stone of the Temple in this city,
April 6th, 1853, and after the ceremony delivered
the oration on that occasion.
	There are many good things that might be
said of him, but his works praise him, his child-
ren rise up and call him blessed, and Saints
everywhere honor his memory and treasure his
sayings in their hearts.
	His first wife who had received the Gospel in
Pennsylvania and accompanied him to Nau-
voo, and from there to Winter Quarters, and
afterwards to the valley, who had stood by
him in all his travels and labors, died in the
valley in 1855.
	The funeral of Bishop Hunter was held in
the Assembly Hall in this city on the 19th
of October, at which time the house was
crowded. The body of the Bishop lay in state
in the casket from 12 a.m. until 2 p.m., that
all who wished might have the opportunity of
viewing the honored dead. The coffin was
literally covered with the choicest flowers,
beautifully arranged and was placed on the
Bishop's stand. The family and relatives were
seated immediately in front; in the middle of
the Hall, and at the left of the casket were
the pall bearers. On the stand were the lead-
ing men of the Church, and of this Stake of
Zion, and the services were conducted by
President John Taylor. After singing by the
choir Apostle Erastus Snow offered prayer and
the choir sang. The speakers were President
Taylor and Pres. Smith, Apostles W. Woodruff,
E. Snow and F. D. Richards. Each of these
men paid a glowing tribute to his memory and
exhorted the living to be obedient to the com-
mandments of God.


[Column 1]

