HANNAH T. KING.

	Those readers who have delved into Tup-
per's "Proverbial Philosophy" with the intense
and edifyiug delight that I have done, also
some of his poems, embodying some of the
highest and holiest affections and aspirations
of human nature, will not think it waste time
to spend a few moments with me in viewing
him as he stands to-day before the Literati of
England. This is an age of testimonials, and
the friends of Mr. Tupper are agitating a tes-
timonial to him while he is living to enjoy it.
This is sensible, and the very best kind of
testimonial. Like the generality of the poets,
Tupper is poor, and is seventy three years of
age; he resides at Norwood, a suburb south of
London, he has also a country house at Al-
bury. At Norwood he stores relics of his an-
cestors, who fought with Cromwell and his
"Ironsides" The name was formerly Von
Topphers, they were lords in their native coun-
try, but were driven out by the religious per-
secutions of the Spaniards; they then settled
in Guernsey, and have there been among the

[Column 2]
chief families for over 300 years. Sir Charles
Tupper, who recently arrived in London as
commissioner for Canada, is his cousin; Tup-
per was originally intended for the Bar, but
an impediment in his speech interfered, and
refering to this he said, "God intended to keep
me silent and thoughtful, and to do work
which I should not have done had I proceeded
with law, or into the church." His account of
the Proverbial Philosophy is that when about
eighteen he was engaged to be married, and he
wished to give his intended wife instructions
of "love and marriage"—he did not wish to
do it in prose or verse, and therefore he adop-
ted the style of the proverbs of Solomon, hence
the four parts—love, marriage, education and
friendship were completed at the afore-named
early age, but they were not published until
1837.
	When I read his beautiful "Family picture"
I can imagine that he carried out the beauti-
ful code he so religiously portrayed in his
"Philosophy." I here extract a few lines from
a sonnet entitled, "Guernsey."

Guernsey! for nearly thrice one hundred years
Home of my fathers! refuge from our fears,
And haven to their hope—when long of yore
Fleeing Imperial Charles and bloody Rome,
Protestant martyrs, to thy sea-girt shore
They came to seek a temple and a home,
And found her generous—I, their son, would pour
My heart full—all praise and thanks to thee,
Island of welcomes!—friendly—frank and free!

	The friends of the poet now in his seventy-
third year have organized themselves into a
committee, and publicly reqnest the readers
and admirers of the works of this author to
show their esteem by subscribing to a fund for
the benefit of his old age. Few, if any books
have been more read in modern times than the
"Proverbial Philosophy;"—"the Pilgrim's Pro-
gress" has scarcely been more widely read;
there is something in his writings that finds an
echo in all who read them; they are full of
strong practical religious sentiment. In Amer-
ica especially the book has enjoyed an im-
mense circulation. Many would suppose in
consequence of this universal circulation of
his works that he ought to be a rich man—if
his remuneration for his writings bore a pro-
portion to their sale, he wonld be living in
comfort, if not luxury—but such is not the
case, and hence his friends are seeking sub-
scriptions to a fund with which they purpose
to make a provision for his declining years.
Few successful writers have been so little able
to reap pecuniary advantages as Mr. Tupper—
misfortune has attended almost his life; one
publisher failed with an account on his books
of fifteen years standing; another firm allows
him only one penny per copy for a cheap is-
sue; while a third house is said to be selling an
illustrated and high-priced edition for which
the author has been paid nothing for three
years. The multitude of copies "pirated" by
numerous publishers all over America have
been of no benefit at all beyond fame and
good doing to this esteemed and excellent au-
thor, therefore, his friends hope and expect
that the enlightened and literary people of A-
merica will avail themselves of the present op-
portunity of recognizing by a liberal subscrip-
tion the ill-rewarded merits of one who has
been fifty years before the reading world, and
has done good to tens of thousands who now
have an opportunity of giving him a grateful
return and acknowledgement for the good they
have received, and the rich enjoyment with
which they have been entertained. There are
already 200 subscribers in the first list, and a
second is shortly to be published. Tupper's
admirers are legion, and now is the time to
make palpable their appreciation of him. The
working brain ought certainly to receive re-
muneration equally with the physical labor—
and in many noble instances it is rewarded as

[Column 3]
it deserves to be. The Laureate of England
has an annuity from the crown—and it is
many years ago that Queen Victoria ordered
a life annuity to be settled on Eliza Cook,
which, of course, she has ever since enjoyed.
	Another appeal is about to be made to the
English public on behalf of one of the hard-
est workers in literature, Dr. Charles Mac-
kay. A petition to Mr. Gladstone, praying
that the pension allowed to Dr. Mackay from
the civil list may be increased, has been
signed by Mr. Tennyson, Mr. Browning, Lord
Lytton, Lord Reay, Mr. Irving, Mr Sala, Mr.
Alfred Austin and other admirers of Dr.
Mackay's lyrical gifts, and his earnest labors
for many years in the cause of national educa-
tion.
	All this shows rich appreciation of the gifts
of God, for He is the Giver, and Bestower,
why should the gold and silver coffers be full
and "running over" and yet the workers and
the laborers suffer for the comforts of life,
while the drones and the butterflies and things
of that genus are often surfeited even to death
with the sweets and the lnxuries in which they
revel-and which as a maelstrom very often en-
gulfs them. All honor to the noble committee
who have opened up this fund for a worthy
writer, who as far as he knows it has preached
the Gospel in his writings and on such the
smile of Heaven beams for ever. Those who
have not read Tupper's works have a grand
treat in store for them. I have possessed them
for thirty years, and have read and reread them
and every time I see new beauties in them; as
I said, the Gospel spirit breathes through
every part of them, there are copious notes
to the Philosophy that are very instructive,
and contain much information; the "thou-
sand lines" that follow contain food for both
heart and brain; it is a book that should
be found in every library, and should be
often taken up as a book to refresh and
invigorate the soul. Joseph Smith said,
"Get good out of all good books," and this is
one he would have loved and endorsed. The
mind, to be properly cultivated, requires va-
riety, both in style and subject; in these last
days when time is so precious no trash should
ever be taken up or allowed on any bookshelf,
for the human mind quickly receives a taint,
or may be warped, never again to become
erect.


BENEFIT OF LAUGHTER.—Probably there
is not the remotest corner or little inlet of the
minute blood veseels (life vessels) of the body
that does not feel some wavelet from that great
convulsion (hearty laughter) shaking the cen-
tral man. The blood moves more lively—pro-
bably its chemical, electric, or vital condition
is distinctly modified—it conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body as it
visits them on that particular mystic journey,
when the man is laughing, from what it does
at other times. And so, we doubt not, a good
laugh may lengthen a man's life, conveying a
distinct stimulus to the vital forces. And the
time may come when physicians, attending
more closely than at present, unfortunately,
they are apt to do, to the innumerable subtile
influences which the soul exerts on its tene-
ment of clay, shall prescribe to torpid patients,
so many "peals of laughter, to be undergone at
such and such a time," just as they do now
that far more objectionable prescription, a pill
or an electric or galvanic shock; and shall
study the best and most effective methods of
producing the required effect in each patient.
—Good Health.


There is, no knowledge of God where love
does not flourish.—Calvin.


