BELLE M. JOHNSON.

TEMPE, Arizona.

	Yesterday a small company came over from
Tempe and we all went into the hills to see
the ruins of a large town that lies between
here and Phoenix. I wish I could describe
the loveliness of the scenery around and be-
yond them. It was late and we did not have
time to go over the town, only stopping at two
ruins, the first a building seventy or eighty feet
square, with a long hall on the south, and the
north divided into apartments, so the crumb-
ling rocks showed. But the most imposing is
a ruin at least 300 feet long by 150 wide—


that is guessing, which has an outer wall leav-
ng a space between for a wide drive perfect-
ly distinct, the corners as plainly visible as
ever they were. It must have been a stupen-
dous building, standing upon a solid mass at
least ten feet high, with two round elevations
on the north side still higher, probably towers;
it must either have been a temple, a king's res-
idence or a place of refuge for the whole city,
which is large. A large room on the east, out-
side the outer wall, built into it, has
been partly excavated and shows that the
place was destroyed by fire, as layers on layers
of ashes fill the centre, with blackened sea
shells as well as some not blackened, which
have been thrown out.
	The pottery here is of a better quality, also
being painted, and every thing shows it to
have been a place of importance. I had
strange feelings as I walked over their grave
of the past, and wondered what scenes had
been enacted there. Any one could spend
days at that place and not be satisfied, and it
is only one of many such in this country. I
would like to study up the Book of Mormon
now. We are plainly traveling in the tracks
of the Nephites. I could not sleep last night
for studying and thinking about that place,
and longing to know its history. A poem
written on that ancient pile ought to be grand.
We are living on the south side of a range
of hills that become ambitious now and then
and almost look like mountains; there are plen-
ty of quails, rabbits, coyotes and rattlesnakes
in them, and plenty of lovely little spots up
the gulches, minus water, besides strong indi-
cations of gold. The most fault I have to find
with the country is its partiality for thorns;
not content with supplying every native tree
with them, besides a half a dozen kinds of cac-
tus, they grow out of the ground in balls, just
like flowers do in other countries, and woe to
the barefoot or thin soled traveler who comes
in contact with them. It would make you
start to see one of our toads, they will about
fill a good sized wash dish comfortably. Just
imagine one of these pets hopping about the
house catching flies; lizards are plentiful, from
the little white ring-tailed variety to the Gila
monster, but we considered them nice little
pets since rattlesnake season commenced.
	While looking at the giant, thorny cactus I
often think of the poor man, Brother C. R.
Savage, perched up in one of them for a photo,
and think if he was going to set me up in one
I would speak to have it well covered with
sheet iron, wouldn't you?


