THE PICTURE AND BOOK.

	The Picture, "Representative Women of
Deseret," and the accompanying book are now
well underway. The proof of the engraving
has been received, but the engravers not being
acquainted with their subject, and the work
having of necessity to be done so far away—
there have been mistakes made which must be
corrected, and it will necessitate some delay.
The title page of the book is nicely arranged
typographically and reads as follows: Representa-
tive Women of Deseret, a book of biographical
sketches, to accompany the picture having the
same title. Compiled and written by August


Joyce Crocheron, author of "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," and dedicated to the originals of this
Picture and Book, their co-laborers in the
Church, and every true heart that will receive
their testimonies." The book is being published
here by J. C. Graham & Co. The following
verse used for the title page is in Mrs. Crocher-
on's original style, and is not only very sweet
and touching, but very appropriate:
	"O, spirits dear! ye light the path]
		That else were lone and dim;
	I follow where your sainted feet
		Lead onward up to Him,
	And hear above life's discords still,—
		Your heav'n inspired hymn."
	The originator and author of this unique work,
the drawing and designing all done by her own
taste and ingenuity certainly will do herself
great credit. The beautiful illustrations of the Lat-
ter-day Saints woman's organizations their sym-
bols and mottoes given in such a delicate fash-
ion as to show up the harmony of all, is indeed
quite a study. We cannot doubt that the work
will give satisfaction, and it is something so en-
tirely different to anything before designed that
it will be quite a novelty and surprise. Its his-
torical value will be an honor to the lady who
had the tact and talent, the energy and perse-
verance to understake the responsibility without
money, trusting to the generous public, and to
the patronage of her friends and admirers. And
we must not forget to add her faith in God to
bestow His blessing upon her humble efforts.


