KATE FIELD.

	Miss Kate Field of New York, the celebrated
"artiste and litterateur," is spending a few days,
here and is greatly interested in seeing for herself
this remarkable valley and the peculiar people,
everywhere spoken of on account of their dis-
tinctive religious views.
	Miss Field is widely and favorably known in
many countries for her literary culture and abil-
ity, her popularity as a writer, and as an author
of books and of a play which she brought out
in London.
	She gave a lecture in the Congregational
Church in this city, Tuesday evening, the 23 ult.,
to a full house and an admiring and appreciative
audience, though small because of the size of
the building. Her subject was, "An evening
with Charles Dickens." She handled the theme
in a most pleasing and happy manner. Her
voice is wonderfully clear and musical, yet capa-
ble of such variety of intonation as to adapt

[Column 2]

itself to every expression of her subject, whether
grave or gay, full or deep, low and sweet, or for-
cible and indifferent. This popular lady is
graceful and easy in manner, perfectly artistic
in costume, self possessed and master of the
situation, she made a most attractive picture on
the platform.
	The Dickens' lecture was so much in the style
of elegant conversation that one could almost
imagine himself taking part in it, and that
Dickens himself was present. It was so new, so
different from the generality of lectures and the
speaker so superior to the ordinary lecturer, that
it was more like a study of Dickens with an able,
efficient and beautiful advocate, than it was like
a lecture. She held Dickens up as a model, and
we shall not differ from her; besides, it is good
to have friends who tell the world the best side
of one's nature, if even after one's demise.
	Miss Field evidently loves her subject with
the ardent enthusiasm of a warm and generous
nature, and enters into it heart and soul, deter-
mined to persuade her audience to feel as she
does. She looks all that she expresses in words.
Her language is choice and elegant, and her en-
unciation distinct and pleasant. A woman of
culture and excessively facinating, yet withal
so genuine and sincere that she wins the admir-
ation and respect of all who come within the
sound of her voice. She makes those who al-
ready admired Dickens' talent still more in love
with him as a writer, and to the indifferent
reader she must certainly awaken a positive de-
sire to read and study his works more thorough-
ly because of her wonderful genius in describing
the humanity of the author. Altogether her
lecture was a rich treat, full of suggestions to
the student of human nature, and overflowing
with wit and humor to a most extraordinary de-
gree. Those who have read Dickens will,
after hearing Miss Field, take up his books with
fresh zest, and peruse them thoughtfully as one
who has an interpreter reviews that which was
to him before unintelligible. Miss Field has been
rightfully designated Dickens "most sympathet-
ic and intelligent interpreter."
	We trust she will be persuaded to give her
"Musical Monologue" in the Salt Lake Theatre,
as it is the one place best suited to a woman of
such celebrity. All such women are philanthrop-
ists in the most complete sense of the word,
for they give to humanity that which is better
than food or raiment, enlightenment of the un-
derstanding.
	Miss Field, the critic, the author and the ar-
tiste, with all her culture and attainments is as
simple and unaffected as a child; through this
her true nobility is so apparent as to entitle her
to the unbounded regard and esteem of those
who have the pleasure of meeting her, and
more especially when they have heard her
speak in public. Mingling with the world of
fashion and frivolity she seems to have escaped
unscathed. Her freshness and piquancy are
quite remarkable, and add a fine luster to the
polish of a woman of the world.


