FOR THE JOURNAL.

	Right has always met with oppression when
advocated by the few, yet. where that few have
stood with firmness and integrity to their
canse, triumph has been their reward. I do
not know of any time when this has been
shown more forcibly than in the early settle-
ment of America. The Puritans were a peo-
ple, it seems to me, who were directed by the
hand of God to take the course they did. They
were a conscientious, God-fearing people. A
people, too, who felt that they had a right to
worship Him in accordance with the inmost
promptings of their hearts. This they could
not do in that land where they then dwelt,
(being persecuted and driven from one place
to another) so they sought America, not be-
cause of its advantages, or comforts as a dwel-
ling place, but that they might enjoy their
rights unmolested. They left their homes,
and with hopeful, prayerful hearts started out
on their journey, not knowing that they would
ever arrive at the destination they sought, yet
trusting in God for their guidance.
	They reached the land and in time prospered
and grew. In after years, when the revolu-
tion broke out, this spirit of right was still a
prominent feature in the character of the Amer-
ican people. The majority of them had come
to this land that they might live in accordance
with the dictates of their consciences. So great
was the desire to maintain this that they fought
for freedom of conscience, and many of them
died for it. Then to make its establishment
more sure, it was made one of the articles of
our Constitution, that "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof." This
was a liberty of which no other nation could
boast, and which has been a bright and shining
ornament to America, because it was a right
and just law. We have men in the halls of
Congress to-day who say they are proud of the
fact that they are Americans; who are proud to
tell of her liberty and her freedom; and these
very men are trampling into the dust the laws
of the Constitution and enacting in their stead
others contrary to the spirit of it, for the pur-
pose of oppressing, and finally driving the peo-
ple of Utah; and all because our religious
views do not coincide with theirs, and because
we choose to worship God as He has command-
ed that we shall. The Latter-day Saints are a
very few compared with fifty millions of peo-
ple; but we have the satisfaction of knowing
that we have right on our side, and the prom-
ise of Him whose word can never fail, that if


we do our duty faithfully we need fear no evil;
for He has established His Kingdom. never
more to be thrown down.		L. A. S.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


