[Vol11 | April 1924 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Perfect Day]

a perfect form, an exquisite wisdom, an unsurpassable grace."
In our last lesson we gave you Lowell's poem, Under the Washington Elm, In this lesson we shall include Holmes' poem, Under the Washington Elm:
Eighty years have passed, and more, Since under the brave old tree Our fathers gathered in arms, and swore They would follow the sign their banners bore, And fight till the land was free.
Half of their work was done, Half is left to do,? Cambridge, and Concord, and Lexington! When the battle is fought and won, What shall be told of you?
Hark!?'tis the south-wind moans,? Who are the martyrs down? Ah, the marrow was true in your children's bones That sprinkled with blood the cursed stones Of the murder-haunted town!


What if the storm-clouds blow? What if the green leaves fall? Better the crashing tempest's throe Than the army of worms that gnawed below; Trample them one and all!
Then, when the battle is won, And the land from traitors free, Our children shall tell of the strife begun When Liberty's second April sun Was bright on our brave old tree!
Holmes lives to be eighty-three, dying just about a year after England's laureate poet, Alfred Tennyson. He lived long enough to write the epitaph of all his brother singers, of the New England group, and practically wrote his own in the poem, The Last Leaf, which we include:
"I saw him once before, As he passed by the door, And again The pavement stones resound, As he totters o'er the ground With his cane.
"They say that in his prime, Ere the pruning-knife of Time Cut him down, Not a better man was found By the Crier on his round Through the town.
"But now he walks the streets, And he looks at all he meets Sad and wan, And he shakes his feeble head, That it seems as if he said, 'They are gone.'
"The mossy marbles rest On the lips that he has pressed In their bloom, And the names he loved to hear Have been carved for many a year On the tomb.
GUIDE LESSONS 213
"My grandmamma has said? Poor old lady, she is dead Long ago? That he had a Roman nose, And his cheek was like a rose In the snow.
"But now his nose is thin, And it rests upon his chin Like a staff, And a crook is in his back, And a melancholy crack In his laugh.
"I know it is a sin For me to sit and grin At him here; But the old three-cornered hat, And the breeches, and all that, Are so queer!
"And if I should live to be The last leaf upon the tree In the spring, Let them smile, as I do now, At the old forsaken bough Where I cling."
Questions and Problems
1. Select the two lines from Holmes' poem To My Readers that describe the poet in his old age.
2. How does Holmes describe a librarian in this poem?
3. What idea is the poet trying to convey in the last stanza?
4. What emotion do you think prompted and inspired the writing of Old Ironsides?
5. Compare Lowell's lines Under the Washington Elm and Holmes' on the same subject.
6. Which of the two poets do you think has been most successful in his tribute? Tell Why?
7. Read with care the last three stanzas of the poem The Last Leaf and tell what you think of it as descriptive poetry.
8. Select a comparison in the fifth stanza that you think is especially happy.
9. Turn to the picture of Dorothy Q in the Magazine and see how portrait and poem compare.


LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
INTERPRETING SOCIAL DIFFICULTIES
The process of gathering the facts of a family's or an individual's social problems should be accompanied by another conscious process. In learning the facts of a difficult situation, the person, who attempts to be helpful in bringing about a solution of the problem, very early endeavors to interpret the nature and causes of the situation. The social adviser works much in the same manner that a doctor does when he studies his patient, observing the symptoms?the temperature, the pulse, the respiration, the infected areas, etc., meanwhile interpreting the symptoms and arriving at a diagnosis.
The process of interpretation in working with social problems comes into operation soon after observation begins. But even though symptoms or evidences of difficulties may be quite obvious, it may take days or even weeks before these various social symptoms can be related to one another and expressed in terms of a diagnosis. In the meantime the several elements that make for normal standards and normal living should be studied and analyzed and treated. Unsatisfactory health, employment, income, shelter, housekeeping, school attendance, etc., should all be observed and treated during the process of study. Later, these elements should be related to one another so that an understanding of the whole difficulty is reached.
To be able to select the important, the permanent, and significant factors from the unimportant, the transitory, and the irrelevant factors in a situation is the secret of successful social interpretation. No definite set of instructions can be given as to what should be done when ill-health, delinquency, or discouragement assail an individual. The study and interpretation must be personal, individual and varying. Which elements should receive attention and emphasis is, of course, controlled by the particular situation.
Perhaps a simple illustration will give these generalizations more meaning. An elderly couple lived in convenient pleasant rooms in a comfortable home. A small pension covered the expense of their simple, daily needs, but the loss of a pocket-book created a temporary distress. They had no friends or relatives to whom they could appeal at this time. In fact, they seemed very much alone. They did not go out much, for they had no place in particular to go. They had never had children. The woman had no relatives in this country and the man's sisters and brothers had
GUIDE LESSONS 215
all died over twenty years before, and he had lost all trace of his nieces and nephews. They had met better fortune and had married well?one niece to a man who worked in a bank.
The resourceful, social-minded friend succeeded in doing much for this lonely couple. She heard the story of their present misfortune and also listened to many reminiscences which they enjoyed telling to a sympathetic friend. During her calls on them she was friendly and interested and cared for their immediate needs, but meanwhile she consciously and deliberately studied their lives attempting to select and emphasize in her treatment the important elements of the situation.
Although they talked of many early experiences, their school and work, the friend realized that school marks and training and work records had no great significance, for their careers of training and working were over. She was, however, alert for names of early friends or relatives, who, though now separated for a long period, might still be interested in renewing the broken ties. She learned the particulars of the pension. She, of course, was interested in their health, but nothing indicated the need of medical advice at this time. She brought them books to read, and succeeded in getting them to attend a party in the neighborhood. But while she was supplementing the income, supervising their health, and supplying diversion and recreation, she came more and more to understand that the elderly, lonely couple were lonely because they were completely separated from their past and because the natural bonds of friendship and family had been entirely broken.
A niece was located. A series of letters starting with the business school where the uncle had last heard of the niece, and including her first employer, and the bank in which her husband was formerly employed, finally brought to light her present whereabouts. The banker and his wife, now both middle-aged themselves, were as pleased as the old couple when the introductions were made. Other nieces and nephews and their children were brought into the picture and the bonds of the past were happily rewelded. The loneliness of the couple's declining years was much relieved to the great satisfaction of the alert, understanding friend, who had conscientiously, painstakingly, and deliberately searched for the information that resulted in such a pleasant end.
Reference: Normal Life?The Individual Normal Life, pages
1. Why is it impossible to determine instantly or quickly the nature of a social difficulty?
2. Why were school records unimportant in the illustration?
3. Give an example where school records would be of great importance.


4. Why is it desirable to connect people with relatives from whom they have become separated or estranged?
5. If the niece had been estranged instead of separated, might the friend still have succeeded in bringing about a reunion? How might she have proceeded?
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE
Recreation
"If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving." Doc. And Cov. Sec. 136:28.
A. Discuss careful preparation for recreation and amusement during the summer holidays. B. Avoid extremes and excesses in patronage of resorts, at the same time enjoy in moderation and seek the out-of-doors.
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR HALF A CENTURY
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Has had one ideal? "To train Citizens and Teachers for the most complete Service and the highest type of Leadership."
Three complete Demonstration Schools in which problems may be worked out will be organized this summer.
THE 1924 SUMMER QUARTER BEGINS JUNE 9: THE SECOND TERM JULY 21 AT ASPEN GROVE
Faculty Members and Lecturers: Dr. David Snedden, Columbia. Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Supt. Church Schools, Dr. Walter R. Smith, Kansas. Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, California. Dr. H. B. Wilson, Supt. of Schools, Berkeley, Cal. Dr. Horace Secrist, Northwestern. Dr. Raymond R. Frandsen, California. Dr. Henry C. Cowles, Chicago. Dr. T. W. Galloway, New York. Prof. W. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kansas. Mrs. Dorothy Nyswander, California. Many Major Profs. of B. Y. U. And Others.
Write for Particulars.
Summer's Cool at Y Summer School.
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH
A NATIONAL Summer School
"America's greatest summer faculty," exactly describes the opportunity the Utah Agricultural College is presenting to you from June 9 to July 18. Twenty-three distinguished scholars, each the outstanding authority in his field, will conduct credit courses?popular and advanced?or give series of lectures. Special courses for certification of teachers in service or training.
The following lines will be amply represented: Education and Psychology, Primary and Elementary Teaching,
SPECIAL TEACHING FACULTY Prof. Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago. Dr. Fae Rommel Leadership, Yale, Harvard. Prof. Blackwelder, Geology, Stanford. Prof. Tisai, Rural Sociology, Cornell. Prof. Yoakam, English, University of Pittsburgh. Prof. Cowles, Botany, University of Chicago. Prof. Franzen, Education, University of California. Prof. Knappen, Geology, University of Kansas. Prof. Merk, History, Harvard. Dr. McLain, Health Education. Prof. McCollum, Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins. Prof. Reed, Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State U. Miss Ella Shearer, Primary and Elementary Teaching. Prof. Bainer, Agricultural Engineering. Prof. Miner, History, Harvard. Dr. Wood, Physical and Health Education, Columbia.
SPECIAL LECTURERS. Dr. Adams, University of California. Dr. Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, Dr. Edward Steiner, Dr. A. E. Winship.
History, Geology and Physical Geography, Botany, Physical and Health Education, Recreational Leadership, Economics, Zoology, Rural Life, English and Literature.
Field Trips and excursions to places of scenic and educational interest?both during and after the summer session.
Living conditions in Logan pleasant and inexpensive. Board and room $20 month and up.
FIRST TERM: JUNE 9 TO JULY 18 SECOND TERM: JULY 21 TO AUGUST 29.
Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for catalog.
Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah
Compare the Pages of The Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 
 REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Base metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Reinforced Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.25
Pure Silk Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00
