[Vol11 | April 1924 | Sequence: 14d | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - Oliver Wendell Holmes (Continued)]

ind; ?- Our ripest fruit we never.

Reach; The flowering moments of the mind Drop half their petals in our speech.

These are my blossoms; if they wear One streak.

Of morn or evening's glow, Accept them; but to me more fair The buds of song that never blow.

Soon after Holmes finished his work at Andover, a matter in the public press so stirred his soul that he wrote Old Ironsides.

The story goes, that "in the Charleston Navy Yard, at this time, was the old frigate Constitution, which the government proposed to break up as unfit for service, thoughtless of the desecration.

"The poem, the first to make its author famous, was written in 1830, and first published in The Boston Advertiser.

From these columns it was extensively copied by other newspapers throughout the country, and handbills containing the verses were circulated in Washington.

The eloquent, patriotic outburst not only brought instant fame to the young poet, but so thoroughly aroused the heart of the people that the grand old vessel was saved from destruction." OLD IRONSIDES Ay, tear her tattered ensign down!

Long has it waved on high, And many an eye has danced to see That banner in the sky; Beneath it rung the battle shout, And burst the cannon's roar;? The meteor of the ocean air Shall sweep the clouds no more!

Her deck, once red with heroes' blood, Where knelt the vanquished foe, When winds were hurrying o'er the flood, And waves were white below, No more shall feel the victor's tread, Or know the conquered knee;? The harpies of the shore shall pluck The eagle of the sea!

GUIDE LESSONS ?_ aii O better that her shattered hulk Should sink beneath the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be her grave; Nail to the mast her holy flag, Set every threadbare sail, And give her to the god of storms, The lightning and the gale!

I feel sure that it will be of interest to our readers to know that Doctor Holmes, as well as being one of the first and one of the most gifted contributors to the Atlantic Monthly, was the person who gave the magazine its name.

Concerning this matter, William Dean Howells said at the celebration on the anniversary of his seventieth birthday: "The fact is known to you all, and I will not insist upon it, but it was Oliver Wendell Holmes who not only named, but who made the Atlantic.

How did he do this?

Oh, very simply!

He merely invented a new kind of literature, something so beautiful and rare and fine that while you were trying to determine its character as monologue or colloquy, prose or poetry, philosophy or humor, it was gradually penetrating your conscience with a sense that the best of all these had been fused in one?