VOL. 8		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1874.		NO. 13.﻿


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	PRESIDENT GRANT thinks the Republican
party may recover their lost position by ju-
dicious proceedings. If the success of the
Democrats should be the cause of honest
and judicious governmental proceedings it
will have done great good.
	THE SUPREME court of the United States
has rendered a decision to the effect that
the legislative act, giving chancery and
common law jurisdiction to the probate
courts of this Territory, is inconsistent with
the organic act of the Territory which limi-
ted and defined the power of such courts,
and Is thereforo void. Another long con-
tested question settled.
	THE LADY to whom P. T. Barnum, Esq,
the great showman, was married in Dr.
Chapin’s Church, September 16th, is a
daughter of a retired Lancashire manufac-
turer, of whom Mr. Barnum has made
pleasant mention in his autobiography under
the head of an Enterprising Englishman.
This is Mr. John Fish, to whom and to
whose family Mr. Barnum has long been
known. The manager is now only taking
Mr. Greeley’s advice of years ago, when the
Museum was burned down, to go a fishing.
He has now caught a fish 30 years old, and
weighing about 140 pounds.
	THE LAKESIDE (Mich.) Register, of Oct.
7th, in a notice of Miss Susan B. Anthony’s
address at Muskegon, says:
	"Propositions were laid down and estab-
lished, arguments advanced and proven by
fact and illustration, and the American love
of justice and right so appealed to, that
probably not half a dozen persons left the
room without being convinced, at the close
of the meeting, that women are as much 
entitled as men to the elective franchise.
It is to be regretted that the canvass for Im-
partial Suraffge was not sooner begun and
more vigorously pressed. Had speeches in
its favor been made in every school district
of the State, the proposition would carry in
November by an overwhelming majority.
As it is, let the friends of the cause in this
city and county do all they can to roll up a
heavy vote on the 3rd day of November.”
 	IT'S NO sort of use to be in a hurry. We
never knew a fellow who was always in a
hurry, that wasn't always behindhand.
They are proverbial, all over the world, for
bringing nothing at all to pass. Hurry,
skurry, bluster, splatter—what does it all
amount to? Just nothing at all. If you
want to accomplish anything as it should be
done, you must go about it coolly, moder-
ately, faithfully. Hurrying, fretting, fum-
bling, spluttering, will do no good—not in
the least—but may do harm. Are great
works of great men done in a hurry? By
no means. They are the legitimate produce
of time and patience—the result of slow,
solid development. Nothing ought to be
done in a hurry. It is contrary to nature,
right, justice, and common sense. Your
man of hurry is no sort of character at all
worthy of imitation. Always in confusion,
loose at every point, unhinged and unjoint-
ed, blowing and puffing here and there, but
all ending in smoke, and never accomplish-

[Column 2]
ing anything to benefit himself or the
community.
	AN INTERESTING "habeas corpus" case was
tried before Judge Leland at Ottawa, Illnois,
lately. A boy was taken from the Orphan's
Home, Chicago, by John McCarthey, of Se-
rena, and kept a year and a half. The boy
seemed to like his home, and John and his
wife liked the boy. Finally the boy was
claimed by a German who either is or pre-
tends to be his father. A writ of "habeas
corpus" was sued out, and a hearing had on
the return. The pretended father and
mother swore that the boy was theirs, and
the boy had a very striking resemblance to
his pretended mother. An elder sister also
swore that the boy was her brother, Fred.
The boy, however, swore that neither the
man, woman nor girl is any of his. He said
his father died in Pennsylvania, and his
mother in Milwaukee, giving particulars,
and he did not wish to go back to Chicago,
as he said the claimants did not use him
well, and Judge Leland considered the
proofs insufficient on the part of the claim-
ants of the boy, and he went home with his
adopted father.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Rose Lathrop, an artist, Hawthorne's
youngest daughter, is about to illustrate a
new edition of Mrs. Horace Mann's "Flow-
er People."
	MISS Sarah C. Woolsey, the popular writer
for children, better known to the public by
the nom de plume of "Susan Coolidge,"
has lately returned from Europe.
	JENNY Lind, now Madame Goldschmidt,
has been singing again, not exactly in pub-
lic, but before a number of the Earl of Lev-
en's tenants, at Glenferness House, who had
been invited to hear her.
	HELEN Jackson Cabot, Boston; Miss Eu-
genie Homer, Roxbury; Miss Susan Mitch-
ell Monroe, Cambridge; Miss Harriet Jo-
sephine Williams, Boston, were the success-
ful applicants at the preliminary examina-
tions for women at Harvard College.
	FOUR ladies of position in London have
become "home decorative artists." They
undertake the whole furnishing, upholster-
ing, furniture, and all that tends to embel-
lish the interior of a dwelling. They are
said to be remarkably clever and very suc-
cessful. They have served a regular ap-
prenticeship and acquired a thorough know-
ledge of the business.
	ANNA E. Dickenson, who has had such
bad health during the past summer that
much of the time she has been confined to
her room, is again in the lecture field. She
has lately presented to the public, a lecture
on "Joan of Arc," which is said to surpass
all her former productions. She will proba-
bly go to Europe.
	CHARLOTTE Cushman bade farewell to
the New York stage on the 7th ult. It was
an imposing scene. There was a great
gathering of celebrities, a poem by R. H.
Stoddard, an address by William Cullen
Bryant, and a reply by Miss Cushman, in

[Column 2]
which she referred to her early struggles,
saying that her necessities taught her that
to succeed she must be in earnest.
	MISS Anna Snow was just getting up to
leave a train of cars at Newburyport, some
two weeks ago, having ridden from Boston,
when she found a roll of bills of large amount
in her lap, but how they came there she 
could not tell. She advertised them, and
on Friday a man proved them to be his,
though he was not on the train the day they
were found, and had never been at New-
buryport.
	MATILDA Fletcher, during the past year,
has lectured one hundred nights, has trav-
elled seven thousand miles, has written a
book upon "Practical Ethics" for schools
and families, and has invented, to illustrate
it, a beautiful chart, so that a child can com-
prehend with ease their mutual relations.
She has also prepared three new lectures,
two of which, "The Heart of a Man," and
"What Can You Do?" were given to the
public last winter and met with great popu-
larity. The other one, significantly styled
"The Ethics of Marriage," will be preson-
ted for the first time during the coming
season.


GOOD MANNERS BY PRESCRIPTION.
	When the widow of Peter the Great as-
scended the throne of Russia, the women
of that empire were yet slaves in every
sense of the word. The empress conceived
the desire of raising them to the rank which
the women of the remainder of Europe oc-
cupied; she patronized the introduction of
English fashions; the women discontinued
living in their appartments alone; they re-
ceived company, paid visits, and formed
meetings. But the empress was not long
discovering that it was a matter of no lit-
tle difficulty to introduce all at once a prop-
er principle of decorum and steadiness
among women who till then had had no
ideas of their own. Her majesty conse-
quently published an order of observance,
the following of which are a few of the ar-
ticles of this curious document:—A lady
desirous of giving a party, must first give
notice to the members of both sexes, either
through cards of invitation or otherwise.
The party must not begin before four or five
o'clock.	*	*	*	*	*	*
Any one may come when he likes; it is suf-
ficient to be presented to the company. Any
one may, according to his inclination, sit
down, walk about, or play, and no one has a
right to disturb him, under pain of empty-
ing the great eagle (a large bottle of brandy).
It is only necessary to salute the company
at arriving and leaving.
It is forbidden to women to get tipsy, un-
der any pretext whatever; and to men, to
inebriate themselves before nine o'clock.
The ladies in playing at forfeits, at cross
questions and answers, &c., will be cautious
not to compel them to be kissed; should any one
strike them, he is to be expelled from the company."


It is one of the curiosities of natural his-
tory that a horse enjoys his food most when
he hasn't a bit in his mouth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SONG OF THE SISTERS OF THE
			RELIEF SOCIETY.
		By EMILY H. WOODMANSES.

As sisters in Zion, We'll all pull together,
	The blessings of God on our labors we'll seek:
We'll build up His kingdom with earnest endeavor;
	We'll comfort the weary, and strengthen the weak.

We'll turn from our follies, our pride and our weakness,
	The vain, foolish fashions of Babel despise;
We'll seek for the garments of truth and of meekness,
	And learn to be useful and happy and wise.

We'll wear what is sensible, neat and becoming
	The daughters of Zion—the angels of light:
We'll work with a will while the angels are scanning
	Our aims and our actions from morning till night.

We'll bring up our children to be self-sustaining;
	To love and to do what is noble and right;
When we rest from our labors, these dear ones remaining,
	Will bear off the kingdom and "fight the good fight."

Nor shall our attention be wholly restricted
	To training our children or shaping our dress;
The aged, the feeble, the poor and afflicted,
	Our labors shall comfort, our efforts shall bless.

"The Lord hath established the cities of Zion,
	The poor of His people are trusting in Him,"
He makes us a source for His poor to rely on;
	Oh! shall we not brighten the eyes that are dim.

Oh! shall we not hasten to soothe the condition
	Of the humble, the needy, the honest and pure?
Oh! let us remember, whate'er our ambition—
	'Tis our duty, our mission, to comfort the poor.

'Tis the office of angels, conferred upon woman;
	And this is a right that, as women, we claim;
To do whatsoever is gentle and human;
	To cheer and to bless in humanity's name

How vast are our labors; how broad is our mission,
	If we only fulfill it in spirit and deed;
Oh! naught but the Spirit's divinest tuition—
	Can give us the wisdom to truly succeed.

Then, as sisters in Zion, we'll all pull together;
	The blessing of God on our labors we'll seek;
We'll build up the kingdom with earnest endeavor;
	We'll comfort the weary and strengthen the weak.


R. S. REPORTS.
		Third Ward, Salt Lake City,
					Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Dear Editor:—I take pleasure in giving
you a brief report of the Dedication of our
new Relief Society House, which took place
on the 3rd inst. President Daniel H. Wells
and Elder George Q. Cannon being present.
	The meeting was opened by singing, "I
saw a mighty angel fly:" The Dedicatory
Prayer was offered by Elder George Q. Can-
non: Singing, "How beautious are their
feet. Remarks were then made by Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells. He spoke of the
great benefit that had been derived from
the labors of the Relief Societies, of their
zeal and faithfulness in the discharge of
their duties; spoke encouragingly of home
productions; thought we could produce
right here in our wards many articles that
were now being imported; also spoke on
the extravagance of dress, felt that much of
the means thus expended should be appro-
priated to the building of temples. He of-
fered a few words on Plural Marriage, said
it was a revelation from high Heaven and it
was for the exaltation of both man and
woman. He also spoke upon the impor-
tance of the education of our children.
	Elder George Q. Cannon felt that the time
was far spent, and would not speak many
minutes. He spoke upon the great field of
labor that lay before the sisters, of visiting
the different settlements, of the ignorance
he had seen in regard to cooking; thought
the sisters who understood that branch of
business could instruct those who did not,
for if we wish to have healthy bodies we
must have our food prepared in a proper
manner. He exhorted mothers to talk with
their sons and daughters and try to wield a


good influence over them, and great results
would follow. He spoke of the sons of He-
laman, the faith and confidence they had
in what their mother said; felt that we
could have noble sons and daughters if we
choose. He also spoke upon home product-
ions, named many articles that were being
imported that could be produced right here
at home of much better quality.
	Bishop Weiler concluded the addresses
by saying that the instructions which had
been given were good. He spoke in be-
half of the Society, told the costs of the
house, said it was the united energy of the
sisters that had built it, and that they had
asked but very little donations and it was
nearly paid for. He said it was built for
the general use of the Ward and communi-
ty; he thought the sisters should retrench
from so much labor and toil when they in-
vite company, things could be made as
pleasant and agreeable with a great deal
less work. He spoke of the Young Ladies'
Association in this Ward, of introducing
different kinds of labor that may throw out
inducements and make it more interesting
for them in meeting together.
	The choir sang "Praise ye the Lord."
Benediction by President D. H. Wells.
		Zurviah G. Eardley, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		A HOME OF OUR OWN.

			CONCLUDED.

	Fourth.—It must be easy to manage.
	The more we reduce the mere drudgery of
housekeeping, the higher will be Woman's
place in the home, because she will have
time to labor as the true housewife, instead
of the mere house slave; to use her forces
in the higher kind of service for which she
is, or ought to make herself, competent.
To arrive as near to this as we can, is one of
the points to study in building a house.
Before the parlor chandelier is thought of,
the kitchen range should be discussed; every
labor-saving device should be examined; all
the cook's implements arranged to her hand;
her fuel so placed that she need not lug it
up from the cellar; water should flow freely
in and out of her premises; her kitchen
should be not only handy, but comfortable
and cheerful, all of which will enable the mis-
tress to command a choice of help, or to do
her own work with less toil when left
alone.
	We begin with the kitchen, but of course
the principle applies all through the house,
and, taking still for our standard the maxi-
mum amount of home enjoyment with the
minimum amount of drudgery, we will go
to the dining-room. Suppose that instead
of costly china we resolve to use nothing
but plain white ware, which is pretty, light,
inexpensive, and easily matched when bro-
ken. Down drops one bundle of care from
the housewife's lot. Then suppose, instead
of precious silver, we decide to use only
plate, which is equally pretty, equally clean,
which no thief cares to steal, and which, if
lost, would cause no deep distress. Down
drops another portion of care from her load.
	Next we shall make a raid on the dining-
room carpet, which is certainly one of the
greatest inconsistencies in American house-
keeping. If we could divest ourselves of
tradition and association, we should cer-
tainly feel that the floor on which we tread,
and especially the floor over which we eat, is
not the place whereon to spread a dainty,
expensive, uncleansable fabric.
	But should we not study beauty as well
as comfort? Carpet furnishes a room, and
is in itself pretty!"

[Column 2]
	Yes; but the first essential to beauty is its
fitness to its object. We might carpet our
front steps and pavement with the loveliest
of Wilton's, but the effect will not be pleas-
ing; and on a floor the same unfitness exists
in a less degree.
	Carpets must be uncleanly, and therefore
unwholesome. A teacher, speaking of the
gymnastic exercises in a fashionable young
ladies' school, remarked to me that while
they were in motion the air was filled with
a fine perceptable dust, which must have
arisen chiefly from their clothing and bodies.
Of course much of this was such effete mat-
ter as ought, for the sake of health, to be
speedily got rid of, and of course the ordi-
nary daily movings to and fro, in a room set
afloat such particles, a large proportion of
which are received by the carpet, and only
partially removed by sweeping.
	No floor-covering is perfect that cannot be
easily washed; it may be that the fitting ar-
ticle does not exist; but if so, it is only be-
cause the need for it has not been gener-
ally realized. There is but one commodity
in Christendom (the servant girls) for which
demand does not create corresponding sup-
ply. There is a material made of cork
which seems to approach the idea. We are
using oilcloth, which I confess is not the
perfect substitute, but oh, what peace!
The dogs may lie down in the hall, and it
only needs sweeping, the children may drop
their bread at dinner, butter side down, and
it only needs wiping. In fact, both this and
the plated ware lead us to the sort of peace
we are promised, where neither moth nor
dust doth corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal.
	Next, suppose we carry our iconoclasm
into the chambers, substituting for woolen
floor coverings, handsome oiled floors, and,
as in Europe, laying strips of carpeting
only where they are really needed; suppose
we discard the worse than useless bed hang-
ings, valances, pillow-shams, lamberquins,
toilet-draperies; in fine, every yard of
troublesome upholster's petticoating that
serves no honest purpose. A late traveler in
Japan says the first thing that struck him in
the Japanese house was the airiness and
roominess of the medium sized apartments,
resulting from the absence of cumbrous
furniture. Each article, however exquis-
itely finished, was light; the lounges were
of some elastic woven material; the floors
were simply matted. They call our style of
furnishing unclean.
	I admit that, in our climate, there are
about three months in the year when car-
pets and drapery give a sense of comfort, but
only the housekeeper knows at what an in-
crease of care. Again, I say, therefore,
down with upholstery! Down with horse-
hair stuffing, except for grandmother's arm-
chair; down with all the corpulent things
that stand about in parlors, and nobody sits
on if they can help it; down with satin
things that fray, and velvet things that
must be covered with other things, and dam-
ask curtains that must be protected by other
curtains, and exquisite door-mats that must
be flanked with other mats; down with all
the gorgeous, unwashable flimsy lace and
silk and gilt things that demand the whole
attention of an immortal soul to keep them
from dust and flies.
	Fifth—It should be beautiful.
	The money we have saved by our re-
trenchment we shall not hoard, for that
would not be true economy; but straightway
proceed to expend in other directions for
outer beauty of form and inner decoration.
I think the taste for gorgeousness, being
barbaric, must tend rather to decrease than


[Column 1]
increase the progress of civilization. The
more our minds are awakened to the beauty
of form and texture in natural objects, and
the grandeur of natural effects the less in
proportion will be our interest in the clum-
sier forms and coarse textures of artificial
objects and upholsterer's effects, except so
far as they succeed in imitating nature. The
richest velvet carpet one step inside our
door is poor and tawdry compared with the
carpet of greensward just one step outside.
The most elaborate achievement in worsted
embroidery would feel ashamed if set down
in a patch of June clover. The costliest
drapery of lace looped on this side of our
window-pane is raw indeed beside the
hangings of an elegant spider on the other
—festoonings every thread of which the
morning has strung with pearls. The most
magnificent gilded or even inlaid table, is
commonplace in the presence of a home-
made, bark-covered jardiniere of ferns.
	The other day, after making a certain call,
I remarked to a friend that I had been in a
very beautiful house; in attempting to de-
scribe it, however, the whole impression re-
solved itself into a remembrance of flowers
in a finely-shaped vase, of dried autumn
leaves against a softly tinted wall, and above
all of an exquisite climbing fern, with
which some artistic hand had adorned a pic-
ture frame. Not one ray of varnish or gilt
or any furniture shop glory could I recall.
Some furniture, however, we needs must
have, and therein we should give much at-
tention to forms and colors, and compara-
tively little to costiliness of texture; bet-
ter an ingrain carpet, rag carpet, no carpet,
with harmony of color, than all the upholstery
of Solomon's temple without it. Especially
should we study the tinting of our walls,
with reference to pictures. Again, the
floor must harmonize, not only with the
walls, but with the wood work—in regard
to which I believe it is now generally allowed
that the grain of the commonest wood is
more beautiful than paint. But we need
not linger in truisms; one point only I would
suggest in this connection; whether it is
not possible to go too far in our denuncia-
tions of cheap art, as found in plaster statu-
ary and chromos? I mean, of course, plas-
ter casts of good marbles, and copies of
good pictures; we would all rather own the
marble Apollo if we could afford it, but the
plaster gives us nearly the form and spirit
at a few dollars cost. And in pictures, take
the popular chromo called "Easter Morn-
ing," it is undeniably hard and raw when
compared with the original, and yet enough
remains of the artist's feeling to make it a
daily pleasure to its possessor. As to their
decreasing in value for being possessed by
others, that feeling is surely unworthy of
attention.
	Lastly—it must be homely.
	I know a room occupied by two little girls,
which is, so to speak, a home within a home,
so stored is it with their treasures and dec-
orated with their own little funny orna-
ments. I know another home within a
home, inhabited by two women, where al-
most every article has its pleasant associa-
tion and special name; there is a tall, old-
fashioned chest of drawers, and squeezed in
beside it, a narrow book-case, which two
are known as the mare and colt; there is a
rocking chair always called the Maria after
the giver; there are a shovel and tongs with
big, smooth, round heads, which answer to
the names of W. Penn and wife; there are
two warm wrappers in the wardrobe named
Comfort and Faithful; there is in the work-
basket a little egg-shaped box, made to hold
a spool and needle-book, made precious by

[Column 2]
the dents of two little teeth so many years
ago. Altogether it seems as if the furni-
ture in that home had received a personality
from long companionship with its owners,
which things brought staring fine from any
one shop could not possess. If this be a lit-
tle fanciful, it is surely true. But our own
home should not be like the one next door,
or the one round the corner, even if these
were better, but should express the charac-
ter of its especial inmates. And I would
choose for its living room the largest, sun-
niest room in the house; I would array it
with the most beautiful things our means
could afford; and there should be nothing
in it too good to be used; and if the family
comprised a man, wife and seven children,
every one of the nine should have a chance
to let his or her own life speak in it; the
piano should be there, and the work-basket,
and the writing-desk; and somewhere should
be a corner for Totty's baby-house, and
there should be a shelf in the book-case for
juvenile reading, and there must be plenty,
plenty of flowers. And that room should 
be the heart of that home, the place where
the new magazines are, the place to find
mother, the place for the open fire, the place
to make a circle for the family song or hymn
before bedtime, the place to long for when
at boarding-school, the place to keep a heart-
picture of when away in foreign lands; the
central jewel in the crown of social life, an
economical, well-managed, beautiful Ameri-
can Home.—Christian Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FEW WORDS IN BEHALF OF AN
		ABSENT FRIEND.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	If it is not trespassing on your generosity,
I would like to speak through your columns
to my sisters, of Sister Eleanor Pratt de-
ceased. Who will remember her? Those
who knew her best. She had faults few
but virtues many. She was ever zealous in
the cause of the gospel of Jesus Christ; it
was her theme by day and night. In her
teachings in the day school she endeavored
to instill into the minds of the youth a love
for Jesus. She was a mother at home and
a friend among friends. The last time I
heard her musical voice sing, it was "Come
to the supper of the great Bride-groom,"
the tune by herself chosen. My soul was
filled with ecstacy, and as she sang it seemed
as though the very air enjoyed, and echoed
back in answer, "She will be there." I
shall ever remember her with pleasant rec-
ollections. I was intimately acquainted with
her twenty-seven years; it was her lot to drink
deep of joy and of sorrow. In speaking of
the virtues of friends both living and dead,
we are often reminded by some thoughtless,
unfeeling one of their faults. To such I
say, be still, let God judge between the right
and the wrong, the just and the unjust.
						I'LL TRY.


WHEN you go a fishing, be sure and take
a "bite" before you start, for you may not
get one after.
	Two Chinese students were admitted re-
cently to the Yale College Scientific Depart-
ment. They passed the examination most
creditably, and gave promise of superior
scholarship. There are now sixty Chinese
students supported by their Government in
Connecticut and Massachusetts. Thirty
came two years ago, thirty arrived a year
since, and thirty more are soon expected.
So far their deportment has been excellent
and their progress quite remarkable.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN China twenty-two different societies
have established more than 300 mission
stations and out-stations, and the number
of church members is variously estimated
from 6,000 to 10,000.
	MARIA M. Simpson, of Boston, recently
bequeathed $1500 to a domestic during her
life, and after her death the principal to go
to the Association of the Home of the Good
Samaritan.
	ONE-THIRD of the unskilled laborers in
New York are idle. A population of 90,000
are really in want. They have had no em-
ployment for six months, and none is ex-
pected till spring, at soonest.
	MARSHALL Bazaine is described by the
French police as being six feet and a half
inch in height, stout, 65 years of age. His
ferohead is said to be low, and his hair
short and turning to gray.
	EXPERIMENTS have recently been made
at Liverpool with a new masthead light, in-
tended for ocean steamers. It throws a fine,
brilliant, white light, and can be seen dis-
tinctly five miles. The light is made from
a powder, and is thrown through a magnify-
ing glass, something on the magic-lantern
plan.
	THE yield of fruit in Rhode Island this
year, surpasses that of almost any other
year in its history, and the people have
hopes that the State is regaining the repu-
tation for fruit-raising it once had. Besides
the larger fruits there is a considerable crop
of cultivated cranberries, the towns of Ex-
eter and Richmond alone yielding from 8,
000, to 10,000 bushels.
	LEWISTON, Me., has ten cotton mills and
five woolen mills, with an estimated capi-
tal of $7,500,000, consuming 35,000 bales
of cotton per year, employing 7,544 hands,
and distributing over $3,000,000 per year,
chiefly to labor, producing 35,000,000 yards
of goods and nearly 3,000,000 grain bags.
the total value of manufacturers last year
was $11,500,000.
	THE German daily papers of Cincinnati are
discussing the question of the length of the
daily school sessions. One suggests that
for the winter the hours be from eight to
eleven, and from one to three for the small-
er scholars, and to four o'clock for the lar-
ger ones. Another favors from half-past
eight to half-past eleven, and from two to
four.
	A WOMAN recently died in Paris at the
age of forty-three from bulimia, or an ex-
cess of appetite. She ate every day an av-
erage of six and a half pounds of bread and
on half-pound of meat. It required about
nine pounds of bread to completely satisfy
her. She earned about a half dollar per
day as a needle woman and was obliged to
expend the whole for food.


HORACE GREELEY once spoke thus wise-
ly upon a question of great interest to all
farmers: "Our farmers' sons escape from
their calling whenever they can, because it
is made a mindless, monotonous drudgery,
instead of an ennobling, liberalizing, intel-
lectual pursuit. Could I have known in my
youth what a business farming sometimes
is, always may be, and yet generally shall
be, I would never have sought nor chosen
any other."


A TALE of thrilling interest—The rattle-
snake's.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one 
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays,
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1874


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
	
			 LOCAL.
	Governor Woods sang in the 14th Ward
choir on a recent Sunday......Thanks-giving
Day was a hungry time for some folks who
failed to lay in a sufficient supply of food
before the shops were closed; they are
thankful it is over......The Z. C. M. I. retail
grocery department has been purchased by
David Day & Co.......The people of Sanpete
have petitioned for a daily mail......A School
Teachers' examination was held in the Uni-
versity building on the 28th ult........Mr.
Mayo has been personating Davy Crockett
at the Theatre.		
			FOREIGN.
	Tailors in China are not favorably im-
pressed with the introduction of sewing
machines, they have an idea it will cheapen
labor......An unusually heavy shock of earth-
quake recently occurred in Chili, South
America......Church reforms have been for-
cibly introduced in Poland by the govern-
ment, and serious riots have been thereby
occasioned......A dispatch from London says
that during a recent gale, five Yarmouth
fishing crafts were supposed to have been
lost with all on board......Improvements are
noted in the wheat market of England......
In Hendaye, Spain, the weather has been so
severe that military opperations are sus-
pended.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Duniway lectures on "The Destiny of
our Republic"......Mrs. Blake and Mrs. Flynt
talk about "Dress Reform"......Mrs. Stanton
gives information concerning "President and
People"......Miss Kate Field has taken to
theatrical performances......Mrs. Howe tells
about "Finance"......Mrs. Livermore is said
to have accomplished more good in the lec-
ture field than any man ever did, Charles
Dickens not excepted......Mrs. Holden of
Chicago calls attention to the "Physical Edu-
cation of Girls."
		     POLITICAL
	The government estimates, it is reported,
will average six or seven millions this year
below what they were last year......General
Banks refuses to be a candidate for the
speakership of the next House of Repre-
sentatives.......Speaker Blain will not be a
candidate for the United States senatorship
from Maine......Grant now laughs at the
idea of his being re-elected for a third term
as President.......Washington Territory, as
reported, "has gone republican"......Arizona
has about "half a dozen" candidates for
Congress, or at least, two.
		     GENERAL.
	Seven hundred girls find employment in
the silk factories of New Jersey......The
majority of the male population of Switzer-
land die before they attain their fiftieth
year......A new agent called "carboleum" has
lately been discovered, and it is thought,
will supersede steam......A woman's college
has been established at Little Rock, Ark.....
A rule has been adopted in Pennsylvania to
prohibit the peddling of newspapers, novels,
candies, &c., on the cars........The yellow
fever, which has raged for some time in
Pensacola, has abated......A number of fail-
ures of prominent business men have lately
been reported......Two Texas men have
gone to Europe to make plans for the immi-
gration of people who may wish to come
from Europe and settle in Texas.....There
are said to be no millionaires in Turkey......
Madrid is now a poor place for business or
to live in, every body is poor there......Plano,
Kendall county, Ill., is without a saloon;
the last saloon license has expired and the

[Column 2]
Trustees refuse to grant any more.........
mother and daughter, of Madison, Ill.,
were recently fatally burned by the explo-
sion of a coal-oil lamp......White gros grain
is now fashionably used for trimming on
black and dark colored velvet bonnets.


PRESERVE YOUR PAPERS.

	A few weeks since, we happened to be present
when a Swedish brother was making inqui
ries of a gentleman concerning words and fig-
ures on a paper which he had received from
the tax collector. The paper was to inform
him that his taxes for the present year were
due and that he had been delinquent in last
year's payment. How could it mean that, the
man wanted to know, when he had another
paper which had been given him and which
he produced to show that last year his taxes
were all paid. Sure enough the mistake had
been made by the assessor and collector, who
must have failed to credit the man in his book,
for payment of which he had given a receipt
But the Swedishman had wisely preserved
the receipt, the presentation of which would
be sufficient to save him the necessity of pay-
ing his taxes twice for one year.
	Lately an assertion was officially made
against a gentleman who is a native of Great
Britain, in which he was said to be not a citi-
zen of the United States. But being able to
produce the recorded certificate of his naturali-
zation, the matter was put at rest.
	Some persons in this Territory have not
proved so lucky, from the simple fact of their
not having learned in years past, the impor-
tance of preserving papers, which might
then have seemed of little consequence, but
would now be of great value could they be
produced.


[Column 1]
		SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR.

	I think myself fully authorized to say, there
never was a time since the creation of the
world, when men and women too, were so anx-
ious to moralize, reform, and remodel society
as at the present day. In fact some spirit or
other seems propelling the masses of mankind
towards a revolution, reformation or organiza-
tion of all things. They cry out against this
and that public evil, extravagance, sin and
wickedness, and each one seems to think that
his or her theory, if put in practice, would ef-
fect a radical change in the affairs of men; and
there are as many remedies offered for repair-
ing society as there are quack medicines for
benefiting the sick; and they are, altogether,
about as valueless and inappropriate. They
talk of reforming when many of the books
they write, the sermons they preach, the lec-
tures they give, political speeches, etc. are in
[Column 2]
themselves calculated to bring discord and
confusion in their wake.
	Those in particular who clamor loudest in
public, showing up people's faults in the most
glaring and objectionable light, are sowing the
seeds of disunion and misery, and inclining
those, who are full of hatred, malice and envy
to the most extreme measures. The principles
they advance are the ones most opposed to
peace and harmony; demoralizing rather than
elevating; they bring up the most hideous and
revolting phase of modern society; and one
would think to hear them lecture, or read their
works, that virtue in either man or woman, in
public or private life, had fled from the earth,
and that we were fast degenerating into a race
of animals destitute of any inherent superior-
ty or refinement, retrograding towards Dar-
winism.
	These extremists tell some very naked truths
perhaps, but who is benefited? and who that
possesses a particle of innate purity, does not
shrink from such indelicate language, such
daring defiance of public opinion, when coming
from a woman? and indeed, what have they to
offer as an antidote to this moral pestilence
pervading polite society?
	Although I entirely disagree with this class
of public lecturers, yet I believe there are those
who are really inspired with "zeal according to
knowledge;" desiring to elevate woman to a
higher position and a truer sphere than she has
filled in the past. Not by destroying men's
influence, or undermining their individual
character or standing in society; but helping to
do what men have assuredly failed to see was
for their own advantage—giving women a su-
perior education, such as their brothers enjoy,
and are considered rightfully entitled to, which
will give them a thorough understanding of
the government of their country, and according
to them also the right of suffrage, and to have
voice in choosing and nominating their rulers
equally with men; granting they have been
previously qualified. If, I say, they can be al-
lowed a few of these privileges, exclusive
hitherto, they may greatly benefit public so-
ciety and sentiment. I accede the point, that
men are calculated to lead out, and for this very
reason should be tender towards WOMAN,
thoughtful of all her needs instead of crushing
in her the germ of inherent womanhood im-
planted by the author of her being, for her own
individual development and happiness, and
not alone to give her grace and favor in the
sight of men.
	It strikes me forcibly, that girls have been
taught to train themselves more especially for
the attention of the other sex, than is consis-
tent with womanly dignity and self-respect.
From the first burst of incipient womanhood,
her education and training has this peculiar
bearing and tendency to attract some man who
suits her fancy, and who will be willing to re-
lieve her father and mother, or guardians of
her support, and keep her all the remainder of
her life. And she looks forward to this as the
crowning point of her earthly existence, and
neglectful of self-culture, self-training, moral,
physical, or mental development, looks out for
a husband, who will take her with all her
faults, (throwing a few "personal charms" in-
to the scale, by way of recompense) make
her his wife, his companion, his bosom
friend, supply her with delicacies and
luxuries, and crown her with his true and ex-
clusive earthly love. That few succeed in ob-
taining any real happiness, and that many
fail, we are witnesses daily. That women
should understand they were created for a no-
bler purpose than to attract the admiration of
men or gain a few years pleasure by being the


[Column 1]
favorite of fortune or the belle of some fash-
ionable circle, is certainly highly necessary.
And when women attain to some real genuine
worth, when they show themselves less mind-
ful of men's attention, more independent,
more dignified, are more desirous to diffuse
sunshine at home, than to win praises abroad,
then we shall expect men to honor, as well as
admire and appreciate them.
	I look forward to a day not far distant, when
women will be endowed with such superiority
of intellect and intelligence, possess so much
goodness, sincerity, and purity, that men will
award a voluntary tribute to their invaluable
worth. I grant you the case is widely differ-
erent now; but strive my sisters to live pure
lives. Cultivate in yourselves spiritual as well
as mental gifts; pray for the Holy Spirit to
help you to shun temptation. If you live such
lives; you cannot fail to have the approval of
your conscience; which is far better than hav-
ing the love of a good and true man without it.
But, believe me, the time is sure to come, when
we will be known, appreciated and loved, not
according to our manifold personal attractions,
but for real, genuine, sincerity and truthful-
ness.
	I know that custom, habit, education and
tradition, have made it natural to women, to
court and expect admiration from the other
sex, and if a woman deviates from this, she is
looked upon with suspicion, and set down
either as a fool, or oddity, or assuming an un-
real character. Yet there are women who, 
true to themselves, in disregard of the cus-
toms of society, dare to come and go alone,
and who will not accept this sentiment, fancy,
passion, or whatever name you choose to call
it by, this tribute to mere personal charms,
this counterfeit article, which passes current
for true affection. If we understood human
nature better, we should not be so often mis-
led in these things, and it would save tens of
thousands of heart-aches.
	Let us, as rational beings, make every exer-
tion in our power to elevate woman and in-
spire within her characteristics befitting her
future position as wife and mother; qualify
and educate her concerning the laws of life
and health, and her own bodily organization;
that there may be no lack of duty through
ignorance.
	Girls, it was to bring about a new order of
things, (a new phase of society if you will) to
establish laws and principles beneficial to the
advancement of the human family (through
revelation and commandment) that we moth-
ers have been willing to lay aside our precon-
ceived notions, training, and moral education
according to the Christian world, and lay all
we held dear upon the alter of our faith, that
OUR daughters might be nobler, purer, better
than ourselves, for these and similar blessings
we entered into the sacred covenant. Not for
pleasure, happiness or enjoyment here, not ex-
pecting it in many instances, but for some-
thing far nobler, grander and more endurable;
that our children might be BORN HEIRS to the
covenant and promise made to Abraham
through the Holy Priesthood. For this we
have endured persecution, have toiled and suf-
fered. Eor this we left our homes and came to
this barren wilderness; counting our afflictions
and sorrows as naught, because we knew our
true position and its future bearing upon our
posterity. And we must not falter now. We
must not shrink from further endurance be-
cause we have not succeeded according to our
most ardent and hopeful expectations. Let us
examine ourselves carefully and see whether
we have suffered any untoward circumstance
to have influence over us; let us look back over

[Column 2]
the web of life we have been weaving with
such fortitude and patience, and see if we
have not dropped here and there a thread, very
fine perhaps, scarcely perceptible to the un-
practised eye, but that have marred the beauty
of the work we expected would have been so
near perfect. Let us redouble our diligence,
faithfulness, and prayers, that we may fortify
ourselves against temptation and claim the
blessings we have been promised as a reward
for our sacrifices.
	Young ladies, you have every reason to be
proud of your mothers—do not let any FALSE
pride influence you in this matter. Your birth
is honorable whether the world acknowledges
it or not. Have no fears this is not our own
work, it is the work of God and He is abun-
dantly able to sustain it and He will; we know
in whom we believe, our anchor is sure and
steadfast if we endure unto the end. We have
had something to live for, which has sustained
us in the most trying and difficult places; we
are not destitute of natural feeling as many
think we are. It is because we possess some-
thing of more real value than the world, that
they cannot understand us; because we have
really and truly Something to live for.
							B. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT HAMPTON'S Station, Box Elder Co., the
postoffice has been discontinued.
	A FREE University Library and Reading
Room is open at the University Building every
evening—Sundays excepted we suppose—from
6 till 10.
	MR. JAMES Dunn has recently been appoint-
ed superintendent of the Provo Woolen Fac-
tory; Bishop Myron Tanner having resigned
that position.
	IN CACHE county, nearly all the young men
are appointed home missionaries, to visit in
turns the different settlements—generally in
company with elder brethren—to bear testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and learn to
illustrate its principles. Exceedingly favorable
results are apparent from the adoption of this
plan.
	AN INTERESTING account is given of a con-
ference for Morgan and northern Summit
counties, lately held in Morgan city, Morgan
Co., Utah. The reports of Bishops from the
various settlements which they represented
were very satisfactory, showing that in general,
the spirit of the Saints in those parts was to
seek unitedly the interests of the Kingdom of
God. Bishop W. W. Cluff presided, and Sam-
uel Francis was clerk of the Conference.


[Column 1]
		  FLORAL HINTS.

	The "American Garden" gives the follow-
ing instructions concerning soil for plants in
pots:
	"It is the common error of amatures and
of some professional gardeners to suppose
that the proper cultivation of green-house
plants a large variety of soils is necessary.
In a work published by an eminent nursery-
man in this country some years ago, no less
than nineteen different combinations of sev-
en different soils are given as necessary to
be used in growing the various plants there
enumerated. To decide which may be the
best soil for the particular plant which he is
growing, leads the cultivator into endless
confusion; while putting his decision in
practice leads to unnecessary trouble and
labor in preparing the composts.
	"In Europe, especially in England,
the atmosphere is so much more moist and
cool than with us—although the annual
rainfall is not greater, if as great as in our
[Column 2]
climate, that plants thrive there in soil which
here would be too light. The drain upon 
the resources of the plant, in our climate,
requires that it should be more substan-
tially fed. As an instance;—Azeleas, Rho-
dodendrons, Camellias, Ericas, Acacias,
Chorizemas, and like plants are grown in
England in sandy peat or in compost largely
composed of it, while with us they do far
better when grown in fresh loam, without
any mixture of peat or leaf mold. In our
own practice we have found that with
good, fresh, loam, without any admixtrue
of sand, leaf-mold or peat or rotted manure,
we can successfully and satisfactorialy grow
almost all of the ordinary greenhouse
plants.
	"There are some exceptions, it is true, 
but they are few. Ferns, Greenhouse Ter-
restrial Orchids, Chinese Primroses and some
things of that sort may require a soil in a
greater or less degree composed of leaf
mold or peat, but the greenhouse hard
wooded plants are better withous it. And
so of Fuchsias, Pelargoniums, Carnations,
Cinerarias, and soft wooded greenhouse
plants generally. They are better for not
having manure mixed with the loam in
which they are grown. The peat and ma-
nure induce a rank growth that is altogeth-
er unnecessary in plants grown by amateurs;
and only necessary for florists in order to
get their young plants as large as possible in
the shortest time—their customers being
guided more by quantity than quality.
The stimulating qualities are soon exhaust-
ed by the exuberant growth of the plant;
it ceases growing and, starved for want of
its exciting food; becomes a somewhat de-
plorable looking object to the purchaser.
If desired to have healthy; bushy plants
covered with a profusion of flowers, it is
best to omit such materials from the com-
post and to rely upon such soil as will pro-
duce a less stimulated growth. If manure
is necessary, and it is so at some periods of
the growth of soft wooded plants, it should
be given in the form of dilute manure wa-
ter. Such periods are just before or at the
time when the plant begins to form its
flower buds, and whilst it is blooming, as
then there is a greater drain upon the vi-
tality of the plant and it needs extra feed-
ing.
	"The best loam for potting purposes is ob-
tained from old pastures or from the grassy
banks of roadsides. It should be taken out
about six inches deep and thrown into a
heap, grass side downwards, to secure de-
cay. The loam should be light and friable
and from well drained land. If it be clayey,
sharp sand should be mixed with it, and if
no pit sand can be obtained, clean road sand
will answer a good purpose. Real peat soil
is very scarce in this country, and we are
obliged to substitute leaf mold. This can be
best obtained in the woods by raking off the
loose leaves and rubbish and taking off the
underlying top soil to a depth of two or
three inches. It can frequently be had in
greater depth in depressed places or basins
in the soil, where the leaves have been
washed by the rains, but should not be ta-
ken from places where the water remains
and becomes stagnant. When gathered it
should be laid in heaps for further decay.
	"Manure should be rotted for eighteen
months or two years before being used and
should be turned over three or four times
during that period. The soil for repotting
should, previous to use, be screened through
a coarse sieve—about half an inch mesh—
to rid it of pebbles, sticks or other extrane-
ous matters. But when seeds are to be
sown in it, a finer sieve—a quarter inch
mesh or a little less—may be used."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
		THE FISHERMAN'S HOME.

The sun with his glowing beams had passed
	The bound'ry of earth and sky;
The tranquil season of love and rest,
	The twilight hour was nigh.
The wind in fitful murmers rang
	Through tower and cliff and tree,
The waves gently heaving in soft cadence sang
	A sweet, sad song of the sea.

Low, where the hills came bending down,
	To a small, deep curve of the sea,
Where Flora's rich offerings the inland breeze
	Came wafting from o'er the lea;
Where the streamlet its sparkling waters gave,
	As a gift to the ocean there,
Humble the homes, but precious the hearts,
	That knelt at evening prayer.

They prayed for the loved ones so far away,
	Where many had found a grave,
Who oft had dared by night and by day,
	The foaming, treacherous wave;
The maid for her lover so brave, so true,
	The mother for all in her care—
Humble the homes, but precious the hearts,
	That knelt at evening prayer.

Homeward bound a frail, rude craft,
	Afar in the gathering night,
Mann'd by sturdy hearts, who fond wishes waft,
	To their homes beneath the beacon light;
And there on the lonely murmuring deep,
	With hope and faith so rare,
With clasped hands, and low bowed heads,
	They breathed their evening prayer.

So 'tis said in ancient times,
	By Israel's Galilee,
The Savior walked, the fishers cast
	Their nets into the sea.
"Come follow me, ye faithful hearts."
	He cried, and straightway, then,
This humble life knew they no more,
	They fishers were of men.
BEAVER, Oct. 23rd, 1874.			A. B. C


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Lemon and Orange Peel.—Dry thoroughly, pound
or grind in a handmill; sift, bottle, and cork. Ex-
cellent for flavoring.
	Wine Whey.—Boil a pint of milk; and put to it
a glass of white wine; set it over the fire till the
curd has settled, when strain it and sweeten to your
taste.
	Stains on the Hands.—If you have been pickling
or handling acid fruit and have stained your hands
wash them in clear water, wipe them lightly, and
while they are yet moist strike a match and shut
your hands around it so as to catch the smoke, and
the stains will disappear.
	Filling Cracks.—For filling cracks in wooden fur-
niture, try the following cement: Moisten a piece
of recently burnt lime with enough water to make
it fall into powder; mix one part of the slaked
lime with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form a thick plas-
tic mass.
	Baked Indian Pudding.—Scald one quart of
milk, pour it on five large spoonfuls of meal, add
one cup of molasses, and pour it into your pudding
dish, in which you have melted a piece of butter
the size of an egg. This makes a nice pudding;
free from whey. If the whey is preferred, add.
as soon as it begins to bake, a cupful of cold milk
	Simple Corn-meal Pudding.—Stir into a quart of
boiling milk the yolks of two eggs, three heaping
spoonfuls of meal and half a cup of sugar, well
beaten together. Cook five minutes; stirring con-
stantly; remove from the fire, and add the whites,
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a pudding dish,
and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve
with cream and sugar.
	To get clear of Rats.—If you want a rat remedy,
take copperas—the quantity to depend upon the 
number of buildings or places infested—pulverize
it very fine, and be sure and sprinkle some in all


their holes in the corn crib, under all the buildings,
in a word, wherever they may congregate, and in a
few days all the rats will be gone. This is very
simple and easily tried, and has proved completely
successful several times at different places. No
rat seen three days after a thorough application.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Frosted Feet Remedy.—It is recom-
mended to paint the feet a few nights with
tincture of iodine. Another remedy, said
to be sure, is:—Take mutton suet and resin,
equal parts; stew together and anoint the
feet before going to bed.
	TREATMENT OF CHILBLAINS.—The Can-
ada Medical Journal recommends sulphur-
ous acid in this affection. It should be ap-
plied with a camel-hair brush, or by means
of a spray producer. One application of
this usually effects a cure. The acid should
be used pure. A good wash for hands or
feet affected with chilblains, is sulphurous
acid, three parts; glycerine, one part; water,
one part. The acid will be found particu-
larly useful in the irritating, tormenting
state of chilblains.
	RESERVE POWER.—It is not wise to work
constantly up to the highest rate of which
we are capable. If the engineer on the
railroad were to keep the speed of his train
up to the highest rate he could attain with
his engine, it would soon be used up. If a
horse is driven at the top of his speed for
any length of time, he is ruined. It is well
enough to try the power occasionally of a
horse or an engine, by putting on all the
motion they will bear; but not continuously.
All machinists construct their machines so
that there shall be a reserve force. If the
power required is four-horse, then they
make a six-horse engine, take a boiler 
rated at eight or ten-horse, so as to fire up
slowly, work the boiler easily, and have
plenty of steam. All agree as to the econo-
my of keeping plenty of reserve steam.
	The "Herald of Health," applying this to
a man, says: "A man who has strength to
do twelve honest hours of labor in twenty-
four, and no more, should do but nine or ten
hours work. The reserve power keeps the
body in good repair. It rounds out the
frame to full proportions. It keeps the mind
cheerful, hopeful, happy. The person with
no reserve force is always incapable of ta-
king on any more responsibility than he al-
ready has. A little extra exertion puts
him out of breath. He cannot increase his
work for an hour without danger of an ex-
plosion. Such are generally pale, dyspeptic,
bloodless, nervous, irritable, despondent,
gloomy; we all pity them. The great source
of power in the individual is blood. It runs
the machinery of life and upon it depend
our health and strength.
	A mill on a stream where water is scanty
can be worked but a portion of the time.
So a man with a little good blood can do
but little work. The reserve power must
be stored up in this fluid. It is an old say-
ing among stock-raisers, that 'blood tells'.
It is equally true that blood tells in the 
sense in which we use the word. If it is
good blood, then the more of it the better.
When the reserve power of an individual
becomes low, it is an indication that a
change is necessary, and that it is best to
stop expending and go to accumulating,
just as the miller does when the water gets
low in the pond. Such a course would save
many a person from physical bankruptcy."
{Column 2]
	SORE THROAT—TIGHT COLLARS.—An
eminent physician, who devotes the whole
of his attention to diseases of the throat and
lungs, told us the other day that about three-
fourths of all throat diseases would get well
by wearing very loosecollars, and no necktie
at all. He said that often singers would 
come to him with throat disease, and loss of
voice, and he would tear open their cra-
vats and cure them with no other treatment
whatever. "The pressure of the collar on
the arteries of the neck is very bad for the
health," said he. He also added:—If you
have a disease of the throat, let nature do
the curing, and the physician just as little
as possible.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—The safest, and most
accessible, and the most efficient cure of a 
corn on the toe, says Hall's Journal of
Health, is to double a piece of thick, soft
buckskin, cut a hole in it large enough to
receive the corn, and bind it around the toe.
If in addition to this the foot is soaked in
warm water for five or more minutes every
night and morning, and a few drops of sweet
oil or other oily subsatnce, are patiently rub
in on the end after soaking, the corn will al-
most infallibly become loose enough in a
few days to be easily picked out with a fin-
ger nail. This saves the necessity of par-
ing the corn, which operation has some-
times been followed by painful and danger-
ous symptoms. If the corn becomes incon-
venient again, repeat the process at once.


﻿FLOWERS.
	AN investment in knowledge pays good
interest.
	HE is likely to be wise who can bear re- 
proof.
	KINDNESS is the noblest weapon to con-
quer with.
	A MAN who gives his children habits of
industry, provides for them better than by
giving them a fortune.
	IT is much better to work in earnest and
play in earnest than to mix work and play
carelessly together.
	BE deaf to the quarrelsome, blind to the
scorner and dumb to those who are mis-
chievously inquisitive.
	“NOR need we power or splendor—wide 
hall or lordly dome; the good, the true, the 
tender—these form the wealth of home.”	
	STRIVE to recommend religion by the 
courtesy, civility, and condescending char-
acter of your conduct.	’	
	NEVER get another to do for you what
you can just as well do for yourself. Money
thus paid out is thrown away.
	AN admirer of fine scenery has truly said
that the best time to read the book of Na-
ture is when autum turns the leaves.
	LET your expenses be such as to leave a
balance in your pocket.	Ready money is a
friend in-need. Therefore consult your 
purse before your fancy,
	NO sunny side? Nonsense! Everybody
has something to love—something to live 
for, hope for and labor for. Your gloomy
feelings are occasioned by one of two things:	
you exercise too much or too little; either
will make you disconsolate, so avoid both.
If the former error has been yours; stop and
rest, and replenish your wasting strength;
if your guilty of the latter failing, go to
work. In either instance you will become 
healthy and happy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PARENTAL DUTIES.

	On the whole, parental duties are perhaps
the most neglected of all those which bind
life together, and the simple neglect of
which tangles the threads of existence, and
makes the world the wilderness it is. *  *
The wisest and most stupid alike fail in this
respect; and yet it is a test of men—this
fatherhood. "By their fruits ye shall know
them." That foolish man and bad sovereign,
Charles I., whose character has at times
been falsely whitewashed with historical
lies, may be well judged from his two sons,
Charles II. and James II. Both were hypo-
crites, both tyrants and legal murderers, 
both licentious and adulterous, the first with
an easier tact, but the second with a pro-
found stupidity, the prey of Jesuits, the
tool of intriguers; the two forming a world's
wonder of wickedness and folly—fit fruits
of Charles I. Charles II. was nineteen years
old when his father perished, and, having
fought at Naseby, should have learned more
than he did from the hard school of neces-
sity. Yet, on the other hand, it would be
easy to find bad sons of good parents; there
is no lack of sons of Eli, who put to shame
the piety of their fathers, and the young
Ascanius does not always follow the foot-
steps of the pious Aeneas. As a rule—one,
we believe, with fewer exceptions than any
other—good fathers make good children.
When they fail, it is when they are inju-
diciously good. We can quite comprehend
the behavior of the daughters of Milton,
who, it is said, spent the household money
on dress, and went gadding about, leaving
the sublime blind old poet lonely and at
home. Such a thing may have taken place
once or twice. The lonely house of a blind
Republican, poet, and theologian, statesman
and polemic, must have offered few attrac-
tions to young women around whom the
changed world was seething and dancing in
a wild chorus of regained freedom and
loosened morality. So too, we believe
that clergymen's sons of most sects have no
particular attraction to theology; but on
the whole, they are well brought up and
good citizens. It would be a strange thing
indeed if training, which we find so efficient
with animals, were not so with men. The
universal cry for education would be mad-
ness, if as a rule, education were a failure.
But it is not so. We have only to look
round on the families of our friends, and to
note that, where the father and mother are
wise and kind, and know how to combine
wisdom with kindness—to know when wis-
dom means indulgence and when it means
severity—the children are well behaved,
lovable, and easy to govern, and that, on the
contrary, where the parents are not, and do
not know what we have stated, the children
are obstinate, mulish, and often hard-heart-
ed.
	A child is a wonderful gift. The first
question with many is to know what to do
with it. Everywhere—except in extra-luxu-
rious and wickedly-rich communities, as in
New York or Paris—children are welcome,
and a marriage is seldom happy without
them; but, welcome or not, they are a prime
necessity of nature; and the world exists
with its own fecund and ever-productive
power a great deal more for babies than it
does for rich princes, millionaire merchants,
or sceptical and worn-out philosophers.
		*	*	*	*	*
	Long before the father has a chance of
teaching boy or girl, the babe belongs to
the mother. And here we feel and know
at the outset that there is an immense want.
		*	*	*	All mothers, having
[Column 2]
studied some good home-work on their own
health and condition, should learn all about
"baby," and begin early with him or her,
the more the mother knows, and the more
active she is, the less trouble the child will
be. It begins to observe early. It will
quickly show its nature—which, if healthy,
is often a lively and rebellious one. It will
fully understand, at from three to nine
months old, anger, sorrow and endearment.
A frown at such an age, and a determined
look, will do more to educate the child than
a flogging at nine years. Watch a child,
and it will watch you; its every movement
is an education. We often hear of men im-
bibing deceit from their mother's milk.
We have very little doubt that babes learn
lying and falsehood when mere sucklings.
Robert Hall, the great preacher, once found
a lady who went out of the parlor with her
bady, put on her night-dress, and lay down,
to persuade the child to sleep. "Madame,"
he said in his sternest tones, "how very aw-
ful. You are teaching your little girl to be
a liar!" And he was right. A child 
who measures distance with its hands and
educates its feet to walk, is engaged in as
as subtle operations as the operation of dis-
cerning truth from obvious falsehood. What
it wants to get, and knows it can get by
pretended sorrow, it will. The shortest
way to deal with it is by gentle and kind
firmness, and instant correction. What the
mother wants is a good, kind, and wise
child; she will never get such by foolish
indulgence. Many a mother dies spent
and exhausted, worn out by mistaken kind-
ness, whilst afar off, a curse to himself and
those around him, a slave to petty indul-
gences and bad and selfish habits which
"mamma" taught him, hated and despised
by his companions, the spoilt son drivels
away his existence.
	Mothers should especially learn that
goodness and industry are, certainly with
children, happiness. Employ them early
in little matters. Children wish to be ac-
tive; cultivate and direct that activity. Be
neither too lavish nor too charry of praise;
show your pleasure by a look; be quick to
notice. Even if your income be two thou-
sand a year, make your daughter, as she
grows up, work as well as learn. Activity
of body means health, inactivity disease.
Moreover, we are not likely to sin by over
knowledge; parents will, or should be, care-
ful to elicit intelligence from their children.
Let them early, if possible, learn their own
position, and their duty towards others.
There is no better treatise for this than the
good old Catechism; it is very much wiser
and more advanced thatn Aristotle's Ethics
or any one else's ethics who has yet lived.
If only partly followed out, it will be sure
to make a good and tolerably happy man or
woman. We do not say wholly happy. It
will be as well for both father and mother
not to take too high a pitch about happi-
ness, this world is a world of trial, and is
very admirably—indeed, exquisitely—ar-
ranged for it. As the Greek epigram has it,
"God's mills move slowly, but he grinds
every one of us at last exceedingly small."
The beautiful illusion of youth must not be
spoilt, but youth itself need not believe that
a path of roses is the path of duty, and
that every hero is crowned and every
clever man makes a large fortune. The
brighter the hope, the darker the disap-
pointment. Men who wish their children
to be good and strong will take care to avoid
this.
	When the children come into the father's
hands—a charming time for a good man who
knows his duty, and who loves to direct
[Column 3]
clear and true young souls—his chief aim
should be to inculcate truth and industry.
He must not expect, much as a parent's
love may desire it, to find his children an-
gels. He may find some extraordinary
vices and faults even in well brought-up
and well-taught children. They are proba-
bly "herediaryisms"—on which some years
ago we wrote an essay. These will break
out. We now know a child aged nine who
has a mania for running away from home.
This child has been fondly treated and se-
verely and properly dealt with, but is not
yet cured. Lying is another habit, often at
the beginning merely exercise of a strong
imagination and wholly harmless. If not
noticed, nor allowed to excite wonder or ap-
plause or bursts of passionate anger, this
will die down. What such a child wants is
to excite attention. We must remember
that every child wishes naturally to play
the hero just as the man does. The great
secret is to teach him how to play it prop-
erly. Others have secretive and other vic-
sious habits, but these are the exception.
The greater number of boys and girls are
turned out fairly sound and honest, and fit
to carry on this work-a-day world. they
are creatures
			Not too bright and good	  "
		For human nature's daily food,
but they are nevertheless possible angels.
Let the father and mother be familiar and
true with their boys and girls, but by no
means foolishly intimate. Depend upon it
the commandment to "honor thy father and
thy mother" is an important one, and not
yet passed away, in spite of the French Rev-
olution; but to get this honor which child-
ren love to pay, the parents must deserve
it. If they are liars and hypocrites, the
children will be first to find them out. And
such parents must not blame the children.
The little people are only too ready to praise
their dog and brag of their doll; and do we
think that that small passion does not ex-
tend to their father and mother? A child's
ideal should be always one of its parents.
The present age is given to a foolish and lax
indulgence of children on the part of the
mothers and female relatives; and children's
parties, costume balls, and other degrading
and tiresome follies, as too often carried out,
abound. These are also often absurd shams,
wherewith the mothers and aunts exhibit
their own fondness, and the children are
bored to death. In New York the news-
papers report that the "shoddy" aristocrats
dress their little girls aged seven and nine
in jewelry worth thousands of dollars. A
true aristocracy, on the contrary, is noticea-
able for the plainess with which it dresses
its children and the order in which it keeps
them. There is, beside, too much fuss
made about our boys at the large schools;
and rich vulgarians trust their children with
too much money—but generally at public
schools the boys themselves correct this evil.
But evil it is. How can a father expect his
son to be simple and true when he has been
befooled and flattered by groom, tailor, and
tutor?
	When the great Seldon wrote in Greek
on the lintles of his doors, "Above all
things, Liberty," as his motto through life,
he might as well have written "Above all
things Truth," for truth is liberty, and the 
truth alone can make us free. Let the fa-
ther set an example of this to his children.
—Family Herald, England.


AN Indiana man sued a newspaper for
libel and dropped dead within a week. The
Detroit "Free Press" says these fellows will
learn something by and by.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	An ox that had been eating fermented
grain, which was in preparation for making
ale, became intoxicated, and was offered for
sale by his owner as "corned" beef.
	"WHAT do you ask for this article?" in-
quired Obadiah of young Miss Miller.
"Only twenty-five cents." "Ain't you a 
little dear?" "Why," she replied, blush-
ing, "all the young men tell me so."
	"WOULD that I could coal her mine!" ex-
claimed the hopeless suitors for the hand of
Lady Caroline Guest of England, who has
an annual income of $1,500,000 from her
coal mine in Wales,
	"HOW old is your mamma?" asked a love-
smitten old bachelor of the daughter of the 
widow who had enchanted him. "I don't
know, sir; ma's age varies from forty-three
to twenty-five," was the artless reply.
	THE vitality of some people is simply as-
tounding. There is a long-haired youth
who has written seven hundred verses, the
refrain to which is, "I am dying, mother,
dying," and withal he is'nt dead.
	SMITH and Jones were at the menagerie,
and the conversation turned on Darwin's
theory. "Look at the monkey," said Smith,
"think of its being an undeveloped human!"
"Human!" said Jones contemptuously, "it's 
no more human than I am."
	"IF you don't see what you want, ask for
it," is posted up in a conspicuous place in a
Logansport grocery. A native stepped into
the establishment last week. He saw the
card, and remarked, "I want a ten-dollar
bill, and I don't see it." "Neither do I,"
was the laconic reply.
	AN Indiana Judge stands no nonsense
from the bar. A lawyer, lately, in the
course of his argument, used the word "dis-
paragement." "Stop using Latin words,"
said the Judge, "or sit down." The poor
lawyer, undertaking to explain, was ruth-
lessly fined $20 for contempt.
	A SCOTCHMAN having hired himself to a
farmer, had a cheese set down before him
that he might help himself. The master
said to him, "Sandy, you take a long time
to breakfast." "In troth, maister," an-
swered he, "a cheese a' this size is nae sae
soon eaten as ye may think."
	TO be the husband of a petted prima donna
cannot be altogether agreeable. He is noth-
ing but an attachment to and faint reflection
of her. He is part of her suit, whose ex-
penses are paid by the manager, and he is
generally regarded as her maid is, or her
poodle, her canary or guitar, or any other
incumberance.
	THERE was once a clergyman in New
Hampshire, noted for his long sermons and
indolent habits. "How is it," said a man
to a neighbor, "That Parson —, the laziest
man living, writes those interminable ser-
mons?" "Why," said the other, "he proba-
bly gets to writing, and is too lazy to stop."
	MRS. Jipes, of Greasy Point, Ill., afte
sawing a cord of wood, digging five bushels
of potatoes, milking twenty cows, carrying
ten tubs of water, and doing a washing of
ten dozen pieces, incidentally mentioned
being tired. Mr. Jipes read to her from a 
newspaper: "I believe that nothing would
tend so effectually to get rid of these crea-
tions of weariness, and that overstimulation
of the emotions, as a fair share of healthy
work directed toward a definite object."
Just here a can of Royal Baking Powder
[Column 1]
struck him in the abdomen. Following this
came a stove lid, three pancakes, a rotten
tomato, salt cellar, bowl of buttermilk and
all the dough for Thursday's baking. It
was evident she considered her lord a "defi-
nite object," and the fair share of work di-
rected toward him was a little healthier than
he would have desired.


TREATMENT OF THE AGED.

	At a lecture in London, Mr. Habershon,
referring to the case of an old man, re-
marked:—"The man died simply from the
shock produced by coming out into the cold
and fog, which, though, only an inconveni-
ence to us, was sufficient to lead to a fatal
result on one whose circulation had become
enfeebled, and whose vital force had so
nearly lost its power. I am reminded, by
this case, of an instance of longevity com-
municated to me by a gentleman the other
day. His mother, who has died at the age
of one hundred and two, during the win-
ter months 'had refused to get up, saying
she was only warm in bed.' I have no
doubt that it was owing to this uniform,
warm temperament that she lived so long;
and I mention the instance as a recomenda-
tion for you, when you have to prescribe for
old people, to advise that they be kept
warm. You should also look carefully after
their nourishment. Old people cannot eat
large meals; therefore they must take them
more frequently. Many old people will
wake up about three or four o'clock in the
morning. It is a good plan that they have
some nourishment then; otherwise the in-
terval between the night and morning
meals is too long for declining strength. It
is by care in such minutiae that we may
prolong the life of the aged."


THE NEED OF REPOSE.—"Repose," says
a writer, "is the secret of power in persons,
pictures, statues, architecture, books and
nature, as if it were a means of retaining as
well as disclosing life, and health demands
a frequent pause to restore the balance of
the system and keep up perfect circulations.
The night if spent in healthy sleep, after
proper evening hours, reduces the world's
chaos and we are new every morning. Who
does not know the magic of a brief pause
in the midst of the worst confusion? A
calm of five minutes will invite back our
vagrant ideas and powers. So the home
should be like a hush and a lulaby in this
headlong, whirling, noisy, furious, and dis-
tracted world of the ninteenth century—
a nook apart from the thoroughfares—a grot
or bower under the sky, where the beauti-
ful spirits of the air will hover and dance.
Its atmosphere should be a little orienta
and cheering, as if exhaled from poppies
and balsams."


THE Peoria "Review" says that a lady
teacher in one of the public schools was
amazed the other day by seeing a perfect
forest of juvenile hands fly up in the air
and shake and gesticulate with violent agi-
tation. "What do you want?" querried the
puzzled instructor. Chorus.—"Yer hair's
falling off."


A YOUNG housekeeper being applied to
for a situation by a servant girl, she asked:
—"Why did you leave your last place?"
"Why, you see ma'am." replied the girl, "I
was too good-looking and when I opened
the door the gentlemen took me for the
missis."


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
			GO TO
		MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
		19 East Temple Street.
She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
				AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4 -	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

Vol﻿. 3. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1874. 			No. 14.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE PRESENT term of Congress opened
at Washington on the 7th inst. President
Grant sent in an unusually lengthy message,
but so many subjects had to be presented
that "woman suffrage" or the "Mormon
question" were neither of them referred to.
	THE PROPOSITION to grant women the
right of suffrage, which was lately submit-
ted to the vote of the people in Michigan,
was lost. But its defenders are not in the
least awed in consequence of this failure; a
correspondent to the "Woman's Journal,"
heads an article upon the subject, "Defeated
but not Subdued."
	MRS MALLOY, connected with the press
at Elkhart, Indiana, says she loves her
present line of business so well that she
can work sixteen hours out of the twenty-
four at it, and her work does not seem bur-
densome. She considers that journalism is
especially woman's work, and that any wo-
man who naturally takes to it will succeed
where most men would utterly fail. Presi-
dent Young entertains much the same
opinions and has several times illustrated
them from the stand.
	A HOME for widows and single women
has lately been opened in Philadelphia by 
ladies of the Presbyterian church in that 
city. Woman may be regarded as a worth-
less inconvenience by some of the unappre-
ciative "sons of Adam"—and alas! it must
be acknowledged, sons of Eve too—but
since she has begun to comprehend how
much there is for her to do in the reform-
ing of the world, she has gone to work with
a will and a purpose, and is accomplishing
a vast amount of good.
	IT IS asserted that in ancient Egypt
women were honored and respected equally
with men; their opinions were considered
quite as worthy of notice; and their names,
on such occasions as weddings were as likely
to precede those of the gentlemen as other-
wise.  An extraordinary high degree of
culture is also said to have been fairly
claimed by the race.  These two statements
hang together well, and may be regarded as
another evidence in favor of equal rights
being extended to men and women.


﻿PRACTICAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS
	We have found a woman’s rights woman
in a practical sense, one who puts into prac-
tice the theories of the strong-minded, with
a strong purpose. We refer to Mrs. Bower
of Ottawa. Left a widow with two small
children on her hands, she at once concluded
to take care of them and herself. She en-
gaged in selling musical instruments and in
the short space of four years has established
a business of twenty thousand dollars a year.
She has never allowed a note to go to pro-
test or failed to pay promptly all her liabili-
ties. She employs four men with teams and
wagons which she owns, to sell instruments.
She has lately added sewing machines to
her stock. She buys in all cases for cash, and
sells nothing on commission. Her business
now affords a profit of $4,000 per year above
expenses. Here is a woman of whom nerve-


less, worthless, silly simpering women, may,
if they will, learn very valuable lessons in
self-reliance and self-support.—"Earlville
Transcript."


[Column 1]
		A CHRISTMAS DIALOGUE.

	Mrs. Goodey. Good morning Mrs. Prac-
tical.
	Mrs. Practical. Good morning Mrs.
Goodey, you have been shopping I see.
	Mrs. G. Yes, getting a few things for
Christmas; the children are all looking for
"Santa Clause" and I thought I would get a
few things to please them. You have been
on the same errand?
	Mrs. P. Yes, but there are so many
things needed that I have not spent my
money for toys, but made it the occasion to
present them with' new hats and dresses.
I thought it would make them just as hap-
py, and serve a better purpose than buying
useless things.
	Mrs. G. I am not quite sure that I coin-
cide with your view, Mrs. Practical. Dress-
es and hats are useful things, and very ap-
propriate Christmas presents, but I think a
little money spent in trifles, if we can af-
ford it is not altogether thrown away. It
affords the little ones a great deal of pleas-
ure, and their merry faces on Christmas
morning well repay us tor the pains we
have taken to make them happy.
	Mrs. P. Oh I always make a practice of
having something to please the children,
but times are hard and money scarce, and I
think things of some practical value will
make them just as happy, and serve a bet-
ter purpose.
	Mrs. G. That may be so, but little hands
will be busy, and little feet are turning in
search of something to employ them and
if they do not find it indoors they are apt to
turn out for it. I believe in making home
happy, it should be the brightest and most
cheerful place; if not our children are liable
to seek companionship among those who
have more indulgent parents.
	Mrs. P. I believe in indulging children
in everything that I consider for their best
good. I try hard to clothe and educate them
suitably, and fit them for a useful sphere in
life. I believe there is no one who thinks
more of her children or tries harder to
make them comfortable and happy, but I do
not think that toys and sweetmeats conduce
to their health or assist in making them
better men and women.
	Mrs. G. As far as health is concerned,
I do not think sweetmeats are of any of especial
benefit; but the young appetite craves such
things and under present circumstances it is
difficult to withhold them. I think it as
well for parents to furnish a moderate
amount as for children to take other means
of procuring them, but children are apt to
attach great importance to picture-books
and playthings brought to them at Christ-
mas time; and I think the care of such
things often teach them lessons that prove
beneficial to them in after life.
	Mrs. P. I try to teach my children hab-
its of industry, and as fast as they are old
enough to understand their import I take
pleasure in supplying them with good and
[Column 2]
useful books, and instructing them in such
things as will be for their future benefit.
	Mrs. G. I do not think that young minds
are satisfied with matters of practical impor-
tance. They are always searching for
amusement and if we do not give them
something of their own they are apt to soil
or destroy useful articles or things of more
value than those we would purchase for
them, or if not allowed amusement at
home they are liable to seek for it abroad.
	Mrs. P. I consider out-door exercise es-
sential to a good constitution, and the devel-
opment of a vigorous intellect; it makes
our boys more manly and our daughters
strong and healthy.
	Mrs. G. A certain portion of out-door ex-
ercise is useful, but when our children are
out from under our observation they are
liable to find unprincipled associates who
fill their minds with profitless information,
and lead them into mischief or danger. I
do not know of anything so deleterious to
growing intelligence as promiscous inter-
course with profane and unprincipled com-
panions, and I think the habits and associa-
tion of childhood are apt to have more or
less influence over them for good or for
evil in after life.
	Mrs. P. True! Mrs. Goodey, I feel to re-
alize the force of your argument. The as-
sociations found in the streets of our large
cities are certainly not of a high moral
character, children, whose plastic minds are
ever ready to receive impressions from
those in whose society they are thrown. It
grieves me to see the manners, and morals
at present existing among those who should
be patterns of propriety and shining lights
in the social circle.
	Mrs. G. I think many of us are too
careless in our own homes with regards to
the influence that is thrown around our
children. Mothers should ever cultivate a
love of beauty and refinement, and strive
to counteract the grosser influence of out-
door life. Parents shonld remember that
children look to them as the highest type of
excellence. I fear too many parents are in
the habit of using rough and even profane
language in their family intercourse; a prac-
tice which especially in mothers cannot be
too severely censured. A mother has the
first impressions to make in training the
young minds, and if those impressions are
low and rough, what lessons in after life can
eradicate them; unless, indeed, they are
to despise those whom nature calls them to
reverence and respect?
	Mrs. P. That is certainly a crying evil
among us, and when profanity and disre-
spect are permitted at home, we need not
be surprised that it spreads like an ulcer
and contaminates wherever it goes. I
think myself that children carry with them
through life more or less the influence of
their daily intercourse, and as they will
seek childish amusement it is better, per-
haps to spend a little time, and means in
pleasing their tastes than to permit them to
go where they are in danger of contamina-
ting their young minds. I shall reflect on
your suggestions, Mrs. Goodey, and perhaps
profit by them. Good day.
	PROVO. 				M. J. T.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
			TO MAGGIE.

There's a charm in your music my spirit to cheer,
It dispels every doubt and brings heaven more near;
Then sing to me now in the twilights dim hour,
While night shades gather on hillside and flower.
Sing me a song that is joyous and bright,
Whose strains swell with gladness, with beauty and light,
For I have been weary and restless all day,
And longing for pleasures that fade not away.
Sing of the roses ere withered and dead.
Around they lie strewn on a cold silent bed:
Sing of sweet hope ere its beams passed away,
As mist from the mount, or as fadeth the day.
Sing of lifes ocean ere storms gathered deep,
Sing of bright eyes ere pain made them weep,
Sing of the loved ere in deaths slumbers bound,
Sing me one song where no anguish is found.
Oh! vain is the wish for if joy begun,
It would turn to pain ere the song was done,
So changing and fleeting this mortal breath
And so widely sown are the seeds of death.
Death to the fairest the purest and best,
To our fondest hopes, to our peace and rest;
Oh life what a fitful mocking dream,
What wrecks are strewn on thy turpid stream!
Then sing of that land of the ransomed and blest,
Where after life's journey the weary find rest;
Where life's weight of anguish and tears is laid down,
And earth's blood stained cross is exchanged for a crown.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

MRS. L. G. RICHARDS:-
	Although the enclosed is a private com-
munication, I think its publication may be
of much suggestive benefit to the Young
Ladies' Associations generally. With this
view, I forward it to you, and trust that the
young ladies of Farmington will pardon
this liberty.	Yours,
					E.R. SNOW.
		FARMINGTON, Nov. 27th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER SNOW:—
	According to your instructions we have
formed a set of resolutions, of which we
send you a copy. The Bp. has read them,
and thinks they are just what we need. We
have also presented them to the Associa-
tion and they are determined to try to keep
them. We are now having meetings once
a week, and always have very good ones.
The sisters respond promptly when called
upon to speak or perform any other duty, and
we realize that the meetings are doing a
vast amount of good.
	Our association numbers one hundred at
present, and increases in number every
meeting.
	Hoping to hear from you when you can
make it convenient, and praying God to
bless you in all your endeavors, the young
ladies all join in sending love.
	Yours Truly,
			Pres. LUCY A. CLARK.
		Sec. MINERVA E. RICHARDS.
	P. S. The young men have also been or-
ganized, are holding meetings once a week
and forming Resolutions.
					M. E. R. Sec.
			RESOLUTIONS.

				November 8th, 1874.
	We, the officers and members of the
Young Ladies' Association of Farmington,
realizing that we have been negligent with
regard to some of our duties, have decided
that we have need to form resolutions among
ourselves, which will have a tendency to
create a reformation in the habits of the
young.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will consider one
of our foremost duties to attend Sabbath
meetings, fast meetings, and all meetings,
[Column 2]
where we can gain wisdom and knowledge,
that will prepare us to become useful mem-
bers in the kingdom of God.
 	2nd.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is a low and degrading
vice, and also breaking a commandment of
God, we will use our influence to reduce
this disgraceful practice, by not associating
with those who indulge in it.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as strong
drink destroys man's physical and intellec-
tual powers, we, as a band of sisters—be-
cause of the respect which we have for
those who are taking this downward course
—cannot conscientiously in the sight of God,
and will not approve of this sin, by associa-
ting with those, who, if they continue in
this course, will bring poverty, shame and
disgrace upon themselves.
	4th.—Resolved, that whereas the use of 
tobacco is a filthy and destructive habit, of-
fensive in the sight of God and all good
men, and creates an appetite, which if not
checked, will lead to ruin, we will not sanc-
tion its use, but exert our influence to pre
vent the young men from tampering with
the life which God has given them, by using
this "obnoxious weed."
	5th.—Resolved that we will not indulge
in "round dancing," and as soon as possible
abandon a desire for the same, as we have
been repeatedly warned against it, as having
originated from an evil source.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as we
have been, in a great degree, careless with
regard to our conduct in general, such as
"loud laughter," "night walking," "keep-
ing late hours," "actions in meetings and
ball rooms," "speaking lightly of each other
and of sacred things," etc. etc. We will be
more reserved in our actions and conversa-
tion in the future.

	Minutes of a Meeting held by the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association of the
11th Ward, at the residence of Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Meeting opened by singing "O my Fath-
er." Prayer by President Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Singing "Ye ransomed of our God." Min-
utes of the preceeding meeting were read
and accepted. Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett
read the first Chapter of the first Epistle of
James. Select reading by Pres. M. A.
Freeze and Miss Lizzie Mineer. Coun. Le-
lia Tucket arose and said: "I do not feel
prepared to speak, but we can glean some
excellent ideas from the pieces read. It is
not what we hear or what we read that will
benefit us, but it is what we remember. It
requires a constant watchfulness to keep a
train of good thoughts running through our
minds, they are so apt to be led away with
foolish, trivial things. But with exertion
on our part and assistance from our Heavenly
Father, we can control our thoughts. I feel
well in Retrenchment; there is not a better
institution for drawing out our minds and
causing us to learn the principles of our re-
ligion. I am glad to see so many young
here. The Gentiles are rejoicing in the
thought that the young in Zion will not em-
brace the Gospel, but I know there is a ma-
jority waking up, who desire to learn the
principles of the Gospel, and Retrenchment
was established in time to supply a chance
to satisfy their desire for knowledge. I
have received a testimony of the truth of
this work; it is the privilege of all persons
to know when they are approved of God.
We need a spirit of humility, we must
learn to submit to higher authority and in-
telligence than we possess ourselves. Let
[Column 3]
us not refrain from doing good to others, and
think less of self, and we will merit and re-
ceive the blessings of our Father in Heav-
en."
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze then said,
"I have proved many times that the Spirit
of God promotes union; it inspires all who
possess it with the same thoughts and de-
sires. It does my soul good to see the little
ones come to meeting. We have been told
to get the young together, and teach them
good principles and they will never depart
from them. The little ones are eager to
learn, but parents neglect to teach them.
It is very natural for us to feel that we are
all sufficient, but we must learn humility
and strive to know our imperfections; and
when we see our own weakness we will
draw nearer unto God, and he will strength-
en us. I have heard Pres. Young say that
he was always willing to learn from the
youngest child, and that we had got to be-
come as little children, full of humility and
meekness. We must learn not to find fault
with each other. The poet says. "When I
saw my brother's failings, I was not exactly
right." We cannot judge the motives and
feelings of each other; if we knew them we
would be more charitable. I feel like carry-
ing out every law of the gospel for nothing
short of the best glory will suit my desires.
Let us have a watch care over our young
ladies, that they be not lead into bad com-
pany, for they cannot mingle with it and be
untarnished. Let us use good language and
teach our children to use it, for the "Angels
are around us their silent note taking." If
we have perceived a fault in our lives to-day
let us endeavor to master it to-morrow so
that we may improve continually and at last
be saved in the kingdom of God."
	Miss Lizzie Mineer said, "I am happy to
meet with you. I wish we could always
keep the same spirit with us that we feel in
meeting. I want to live nearer to the Lord
day by day, and I know I can do so by at-
tending to prayer. I would like to hear my
sisters speak. The smallest can bear testi-
mony of the goodness of God."
	Mrs. Rebecca Mead said, "I enjoyed your
meeting so much last week that I could not
refrain from coming to-day. The Lord
deigns to give us special blessings here; I am
proud of the children of the saints, there
are none to surpass them in the world. To
me, you young ladies look beautiful with
your plain dresses and natural faces, free
from paint and powder. The Gentiles can-
not help admiring you, in your native
beauty. Do not pattern after the fashions
of the world, but take good counsel, live
pure lives and God will bless you.
	Misses Mary McMaster, Hannah McMas-
ter, Etta Young, Minnie Young, Maggie
Mead and Mirriam Greer were accepted as
members of the Association. Miss Maggie
Mead was appointed to write an essay.
“Humility” continued as a subject for next
meeting. Moved an adjournment for one
week; singing, "Hark the song of Jubilee."
Benediction by Sister Mead.
	MISS LELIA TUCKET, Secretary.


THE gallant coursers of Nantucket are
not remarkable for bottom or speed. One
found his way into the Massachusetts cav-
alry during the rebellion, being recommend-
ed as an excellent war horse. When the
soldier returned he went into a towering
passion, because he had been swindled. "As
how?" asked the islander. "Why, you
warranted him a good war-horse, and there
is not a bit of go in him." "Yes, I did;
and I repeat he is a good war-horse, he'd
sooner die than run."


﻿WOMAN’S  EXP0NENT.


[Column 1]
				For the EXPONENT.
CULTURE NECESSARY TO IMPROVE-
				MENT.

	Nature has been lavish in her gifts to
man, but labor has been and is a condition
of their enjoyment, improvement and per-
petuity. Certain races of men seem to
have noticed these facts and to have taken
advantage of them; had they not done so
there would have been little development;
they recognized the force of the truism "in
the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,"
which is written in the book of Nature as well
as in the Bible. Labor—culture, exercised by
man in the earliest ages benefits us to-
day.
	There is no natural wheat worth having.
Nature supplies the seeds from which it
can and without which it cannot be made.
Man cannot make an atom of matter neither
can he destroy; but he can make a thing that
is worth nothing worth something, this is
creation. He can change the direction of
the natural forces and use them for his own
advantage. The wheat we prize so greatly
is the result of labor expanded for many
successive generations, care in selecting,
improving, nourishing, the "flesh-forming"
and "heat-giving" properties, the vitalizing
forces of our wheat, represent the energies
of thousands of our race who wrought for
our convenience, and made our existence
possible in such multitudes. The same may
be said of our peaches, pears, cherries; of
the plump, pulpy delicious edible fruits,
they have been handed down as part of our
inheritance from man; the wild fruits are of
small value. The double flowers and floral
beauties of our gardens that we so highly
prize are man's work. Nature does her
work adequately, elegantly, but frugally,
the wild flowers of the prairies, the butter-
cup, daisies of the meadows and the lilly of
the vallies are evidences. Nearly all the
temporal blessings we enjoy are the out-
flow of accumulations, that have resulted
from culture in the distant past, we are in-
debted for them to man.
	That the same general principles of im-
provement, and thus of adding to value by
culture are understood we have evidence of
in the care which is taken in raising stock
as well as in agricultural and kindred opera-
tions. But there does not appear to be as
much care in raising men, nor as clear a
conception of the importance of culture to
our race; the greatest care is taken in breed-
ing, and, by attention to natural laws ani-
mals are raised with certainty of the most
desirable kinds. Nature, in her gifts, has
not shut out man from similar advantages
of descent and culture, wherein to be suc-
cessful must be natural, that is in harmony
with the laws of our being. We may be
thankful that by a happy train of circum-
stances a more perfect race of men is being
developed in these mountains, simply be-
cause there is more perfect obedience to the
natural laws.
	The gathering together of a people that
will improve by living in harmony with the
laws of our being is a requirement of the
age; the strongest races live the longest,
man is dwindling in stature and shortening
his life because he loses strength by living
in violation of the fundamental laws upon
the observance of which existence is secured
to him.
	What is wanting to secure to man the
highest attainable excellence, the maximum
of vitality and intelligence, is culture, not
of a part but of the whole being. What
this being man is capable of we may learn
from the Key to Theology: "An intelli-
[Column 2]
gent being, in the image of God, possesses
every organ, attribute, sense, sympathy, af-
fection, will, wisdom, love, power and gift,
which is possessed by God himself. But
these are possessed by man, in his rudi-
mental state, in a subordinate sense of the
word. Or in other words, these attributes
are in embryo, and are to be gradually de-
veloped. They resemble a bud—a germ,
which gradually develops into bloom, and
then, by progress, produces the mature
fruit, after its own kind." So that, as the
wheat has attained to its present excellence
by culture man can attain to a fulness of
perfection.
	It is well for us that we are in the school
where we realize that culture is necessary
to our improvement—self-culture especially.
It teaches us to know ourselves and thus to
know others. We do not look with ill-feel-
ing or contempt upon those who have not
attained to this knowledge. Our pride does
not make us repulsive, nor vanity cause us
to be survile to others. It enables us to
stand erect under the chilling blasts of ad-
versity, and beneath the sunshine of pros-
perity. If we are angry we sin not; or if
we incautiously infringe upon anothers
rights we ask forgiveness. And we obtain
it too, from those who have made them-
selves the subject of this culture.
	If this does not raise us in the estimation
of those outside the moral discipline indi-
cated it improves us, and with ages that
succeed us it will improve the race. We
shall thus leave the world better than we
found it, the rich legacy inherited by us
from man made richer by our labors will be
bequeathed to and held in prosperity by
man.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

	NON-INFLAMMABLE FABRICS.—Cotton or
linen goods may be rendered non-inflamma-
ble by being dipped in a solution of equal
parts of acetate of lime and chloride of cal-
cium dissolved in twice their weight of wa-
ter.
	ACTION OF PLASTER ON SOILS.—Though
generally employed by farmers as a fertili-
zer, the action of plaster (gypsum) on the
soil is not well understood. It has been
shown, however, by actual experiment, that
plaster is capable of absorbing ammonia
from the air, and also from decomposing an-
imal and vegetable matter, holding it in the
form of sulphide of ammonium. This,
again, may be changed into carbonate of
ammonia, by absorption of carbonic acid
from the air. These changes occur when
gypsum is brought in contact with moisture
and vegetable matter. Whatever other
purpose it may serve, this must be regarded
as the most important, as by it plants are
supplied with food of the highest value.
	Not only is gypsum, or sulphate of lime,
a substance so abundant in our mountains,
useful in these respects, but is valuable as a
deoderizer; decaying organic matter be-
comes fixed by union chemically with the
sulphuric aid of the gypsum. In this way
the volatile and pernicious, in some cases
poisonous gases are made subservient to the
interests of agriculture. Besides this gyp-
sum has its uses for "plaster of Paris"
and calcineing.


An omnibus driver called down to an un-
conscious young lady, "Miss, your fare!"
"Well" exclaimed the girl, rousing up, "If 
I am, I don't want any of your imperti-
nence!"


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Chandler, of London, has established
a convalescent hospital which is said to be
doing a vast amount of good.
	AN English lady by the name of Octavia
Hill, has taken upon herself the burden of
improving some of the dwellings of the
poor.
	MRS. Harriet Moulton, of Unity, 80 years
old, set her clothing on fire while smoking
in bed, a few nights ago, and was fatally
burned.	A FEW days since, two young ladies died
in Fairhaven, Massachusetts, who were en-
gaged to be married to two young men who
were eousins. Their wedding dresses w ere
their shrouds.
	MADAM Patti-Caux lately sung on a Par-
isian stage for the benefit of the Alsace-
Lorrainers and evolved seven thousand dol-
lars for the performance.
	MRS. Scott-Siddons, lately home from
Europe, is going to visit China, Japan, and
places still more distant; being absent from
America for about two years.
	AN English paper announces that "sev-
eral of the loveliest ladies in the realm as-
sembled at Wimbledon last week, to see
the shooting of their husbands."
	MISS Helen Patterson, an artist who has
done good work for the "Graphic" and the
Cornhill Magazine, is said to be about to
marry the poet Allingham, who has become
the successor of Froude, in editing Frazer's
Magazine.
	A MISSISSIPPI girl just out of school
hired a few negroes last season and under-
took to carry on a farm at her homestead.
The result at the end of the year was eight
banks of potatoes, 600 bushels of corn and
$960 in cash from the sale of cotton after all
expenses were paid.
	MRS. Julia Ward Howe lectures on the
question "Is Polite Society Polite? and an-
swers it, the papers say, in a satisfactory
manner to an intelligent audience of Bosto-
nians. But we have not learned whether
she proves the answer to be yes or no.


COURTING.—"Courting is about half sci-
ence," says Josh Billings. "The nature in
it is simple energy, You must begin slow,
and bye and bye it will be best to agitate
things. Wimmen never surrender, nor are
they ever exactly won, but rather captured.
They 'fight it out on this line.' There are
wimmen who are as easy to court as lint.
'Luv at first sight' is like eating honey. It
duz seem as though you could never get
enuff of it. This kind of luv is apt to make
blunders, and is hard to back out of as well,
but there ain't any such thing az pure ma-
thematicks in courting. If it is all nature,
it is too innocent for earth, and if it is all
science, it is too much of a job. Perhaps
the best way to court is to begin without
much of any plan where you are going to
fetch up, and let the thing kind of worry
along kareless, like throwing stones into a
mill-pond. You will find one thing strictly
true—the more advice you undertake to
follow, the less amount of good courting you
will do.


I AM in favour ov the utmost possible lib-
erty, both for the soul & boddy, but i never
expekt to see human natur, well broke
enuff to drive without enny bits!—Billings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.

	The middle of December and no snow to
lay on the ground a day yet this season.
Rather remarkable......A German singing
club was recently organized in this city......
The Hawaiian King, Kalakana, passed
through Ogden on his way to Washington
on the 7th inst. He is expected to return
this way with his suite, and will likely pay
Salt Lake a visit in a few weeks......Hep-
worth Dixon, the author of "New Ameri-
ca," a book in which he gives the "Mor-
mons" a fair showing, recently visited our
city for the second time......A child was re-
cently kidnapped and a horse and buggy
stolen by a man and woman in this city.
			PERSONAL
William Delaney, one of the "noble six
hundred" who rode at Balaklava, lives now
at Portland, Maine......Bazaine is to occupy
the appartments in London once dwelt in
by Napoleon Third, when he was called
Prince Louis......Fanny Morgen Phelps is
manager of the Oro Fino Theatre in Port-
land, Oregon, and she was lately won great
applause......Miss Mattie Stephenson is the
second lady compositor who has made her
"debut" in Albany, New York......Thomas
Gerrand, a boy murderer in Oregon, is sen-
tenced to be hanged on the 15th of January
......Miss Johns, a young lady of Salem,
Oregon, was recently badly burned by the
explosion of a fluid lamp......Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage says that in the matter of books,
man's work is a sham......Annie Norton, of
Earlville, Ill., has proved a very successful
and skillful doctor......Mrs. Ezra Stephens
of Crete, Nebraska, preached the funeral
sermon of a departed lady recently.
			POLITICAL.
Governor Komper, of Richmond, Va. says,
in his message to the State Legislature, that
"the recent events create hopes that the
government of the United States is to be
brought back to the Constitution"......The
strife in Cuba is still unsettled......The
Whites and the Negroes are having serious
fights in Vicksburg, Ill.; seventy Negroes
were recently killed in one day......In Wal-
la Walla county, Oregon, seventeen candi-
dates were up for representative at the late
election......It is reported that a Republican
Congressman elect, of Kentucky, shot and
killed his Democratic competitor in the
election.


ENCOURAGING.

		FROM AN AGENT.

			BEAVER, Dec. 5th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	I have just returned from Minersville,
where I went to visit, and also to canvas
for the EXPONENT. The sisters of the Re-
lief Society all seem in good faith, and anx-
ious to have the paper, but only a few were
able to subscribe more than one dollar. I
advised them if they could do no better to
send for half the year; they seemed pleased
with that suggestion, and accordingly, I re-
ceived five names, with one dollar each.
When that has expired I will see to the re-
newals. Sister Tyler is sick with inflamma-
tory rheumatism and was not able to accom-
pany me; when she recovers we shall en-
deavor to visit the other settlements, and
obtain what we can.  So you will please to
send to those five subscribers for six months.
I shall get more names from that place in
time.  I told the sisters I wished them to
bear in mind that the EXPONENT was a pa-


per edited and sustained by women, and for
that very reason we could not afford to let
it fail; they seemed fully to coincide with
my sentiments; besides they admire the
character of the matter contained in the
paper.
			Very restpectfully yours,
						L. B. Pratt.


[Column 1]
		THE CLOSING YEAR.

	A few more days, and eighteen hundred and
seventy-four will be counted with the hoary
past, and for a little season we shall date our
writings '75. Then, just ahead, in native and
in manufactured glory, will stand our nation's
grand Centennial. But we need not seek to
hasten the time, or to throw aside an hour un-
spent. There is enough to do to prepare for the
countless changes as they follow each other in
rapid succession.
	As this issue of the EXPONENT will be the
last until the old year's title will be exchanged
for the new, it seems timely for us to make
here, a slight retrospection of some of the
events, which have to a great extent, occupied
personal as well as public attention during the
twelve months past.
	Like its late predecessors, the year which
now draws to a close, has been rife with ca-
lamitous incidents. Of "wars and commo-
tions," of "blood and fire," of "earthquakes
famines and pestiliences" there has certainly
been no lack of accounts placed in the world's
great record. But of all the afflictions where
with America's children have been afflicted,
perhaps the sudden stroke of the unforseen
and uncontrovertible hand of DEATH has been
the greatest cause of almost general "lamenta-
tion, weeping and great mourning." Not a
neighborhood, we venture to assert, but has
felt the gloomy presence of that peace destroy-
ing messenger, who marks for his selections oft
the fairest flowers, the most choice fruits, and
best and finest grain; scarcely a home but has
been either directly or indirectly smitten.
	Within the immediate circles of our dear
personal friends and intimate acquaintances,
we recall to mind the sad face and sorrowing
tones of more than one newly made widow,
and of too many bereaved and anguished moth-
ers. If ever true heroism was displayed by
woman, we have been witness to it in some of
these instances, within the last six months.
	We fully understand that there is no terror
in death to the pure and good; nor is it when
such depart, that their remaining friends de-
plore the fate of the dearly cherished ones who
pass away from mortal toll and care. But the
realizing sense of the separation which must
continue for an unknown length of time be-
tween a human heart and its best earthly idol,
to which death has laid claim, be it parent,
[Column 2]
﻿brother or sister, companion or child, can only
be comprehended by those who have passed
through the trying ordeal. What proof of di-
vine trust in an alwise and all merciful God,
can surpass that which shines forth in the calm
resignation and unswerving fortitude with
which some of our noble heroines of the pre-
sent period bear these great griefs? But there
is also a consolation to such sufferers, sacred
and sweet, which no other sorrow can know.
There is a beautiful golden side to even this
dark picture. If while her heart's treasures,
her best gifts from God remain with her in the
flesh, liable like her to fall into the snares of
the tempter and to lose at last the great reward
of faithfulness, woman has something to live
and labor for—how much more, when her
cherished idol has been freed from mortality
with all its burdens, in order that she may be
worthy to claim her own when her mission
shall have been also accomplished!
	The defeat of the Republicans and the tri-
umphant uprising of the Democracy through-
out the United States will stand as THE event
by which 1874 will be made memorable in
American history.
	That the negroes are arming themselves and
opening war with the whites is an occurrence
which has been long looked for, a prediction the
fulfillment of which this year see the begin-
ning.
	In the midst of the Latter-day Saints, a New
Order of things has been partially established
during the present year; although the per-
ceptible change may be slight, yet it may be
said that the laying of one foundation stone at
least has been accomplished.
	In bidding goodbye to "the wise old year,"
we would take occasion to thank our friends for
their kind patronage, and say to them, "be not
weary in well doing," nor discouraged because 
of dull times or dark prospects—we don’t mean
to be. And as Christmas will be spent before
we greet our friends again, we wish them all
a merry one.


BUILDING TEMPLES.

	If I could say anything to my sisters to ex-
hort them to live nearer the Lord than we have
been doing, I would gladly do so. For I feelt
that the time is far spent, that great events
are taking place, and that greater ones will come
to pass ere many are aware or prepared for
them. I recently attended a meeting at which
President B. Young Jun. spoke in accordance
with the times; and in my heart I rejoiced to
hear the words of truth spoken by the lips of
an Apostle of God. And I thank my Heavenly
Father for the light of the Gospel which I
have received.
	Oh! my sisters, we have need to become
more and more united in our efforts to assist
the elders in building up the Kingdom of God.
	What do we suppose the words which have
been spoken by the mouths of holy prophets,
concerning the establishment of God's King-
dom upon the earth, can mean, but that His
saints must establish it in His name, by His
authority and through His aid and blessings?
	The scriptures tell us that "the Lord will
come suddenly to his temple." Can we imag-
ine that he will come before the Temple is pre-
pared for him? Or can any of us have hopes
of being invited to enter into the Temple, and
hear the words of life uttered by the Savior and
Redeemer of the world, beholding His face and
witnessing the glory of His presence, if we
are not assisting to make it ready for the recep-
tion? We understand that the religion we
have embraced is a practical religion, that we
must WORK as well as watch and pray. If any


among us cannot, possibly, raise the amount of
fifty cents per month in cash, to be given for
the building of Temples, it is possible for most
of us to do something else, which, in many in-
stances will be quite as well. The men who
labor on the Temples must be clothed and fed.
Many of us in country places who, in these
"hard times," rarely have the spending of a
dollar in money, might save a few pounds of
butter, a few dozen eggs, knit a pair of good,
warm socks or pay in some other similar man-
ner our personal oblations. In some cases, a
sister might have a little stocking yarn that
she would use for that purpose, if she could get
time aside from the incessant care of her young,
helpless family. While her neighbor, perhaps,
would take the time to knit the socks if she
only had or could get the yarn. Let us be
neighborly, sisterly, meet and speak often one
to another, learn of each others conditions, and
under circumstances such as I have mentioned,
let one donate the material, the other the labor.
Here, again, we should find co-operation agree-
able and beneficial.
	But if, for the money to be paid in as a Tem-
ple offering would really be preferable, I think
in most instances, that by a little planning and
pains taking, we might manage to obtain the
money for such articles as I have named.
	It is necessary that we bestir ourselves if we
wish to be employed in the service of the Lord.
He does not and cannot patronize idle servants,
any more than business men and women can.
His work MUST be done, and he will employ
those who WILL do it. Not those who pray
for the Kingdom to be built up, but who be-
lieve it impossible for them to practically pro-
mote its interests, when the Lord in great wis-
dom and mercy, has given unto them powers
of mind and body whereby they might not
only assist His cause but win for themselves
crowns of immortal glory. It seems to me
that it should be in the power of every woman
in the Territory who feels a deep interest in the
work of Zion, and who is able to knit or spin
or wash dishes, or do any other kind of work,
to do something towards the building of Tem-
ples, and thus earn a right to the blessings
and privileges therein to be obtained.
	And furthermore, if our desires to do great
good are very intense, we have only to pray to
the Lord in earnestness and faith, for wisdom
and ability to accomplish the good we seek to
bring about; and then set to work, first with
our heads to devise the proper way--since our
hearts are already enlisted--and then with our
hands to do whatever must be done.
	By these simple means every woman in the
community who is possessed of any stability
whatever, might, without troubling her hus-
band about it, also subscribe for WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and find time to read it too. And also
pay for the "Juvenile Instructor" for her chil-
dren until they were able to earn the subscrip-
tion money for themselves.		M. G. H.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTICE.
	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and send,
or make arrangements with their postmasters
to have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the princinct of
this county.
	WHAT is the key to a Christmas box?
A tur-key.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE STREET crossings are being improved at
several differnt corners where improvements
were much needed, by the laying of plank
crossings. Thanks to our City Fathers.
	GRASS CREEK Coal, from the Old Church
mine, we find upon testing to be of superior
quality. This mine is now worked by Bishops
Cluff of Coalville, Richins of Heneferville and
Winters of Unionville. We received a sample
from Mr. Angus M. Cannon who is agent for it
in this city.
	NEWS FROM St. George are to the effect, that
President Young's health is much better than
when he left his home in this city, and still
improving. A rain storm of three day's dura-
tion was lately experienced there, which is
something quite unusual for that country.
	THEOLOGICAL CLASSES are being organized
in connection with the Sabbath Schools of the
different Wards in this city. They are for the
instructing of the teachers and larger scholars
in the principles of the Gospel, in a manner
that will enable them to impart the knowledge
they gain readily to others; and are calculated
to be of great benefit.
	DURING CHRISTMAS week a fair will be open
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, un-
der the management of the Relief Society of
the Ward. A great variety of articles, useful
and beautiful, will be on exhibition and for
sale. Tickets will be issued at low prices, and
a general invitation to visit and patronize is
extended to the public.
	MAJOR OVERTON recently burned the entire
personal property of his daughter Alice; includ-
ing her trunk, wardrobe, presents and keep-
sakes from dear friends, because of her leaving
home on account of the harsh and cruel treat-
ment she was there subjected to by her parents.
One of the meanest things that ever took
place in Utah. 
	FATHER PHINEAS Richards, aged eighty-six
years, died in this city on the evening of the
25th ult. He was the father of Apostle F. D.
Richards a cousin of President Brigham Young,
and one of the early settlers of these valleys.
Until the close of his mortal career,he remained
firm in the faith of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
which he embraced more than thirty years ago.
He leaves behind a large circle of friends and
relatives, including many children, grand chil-
dren and great grand children.
	THE NEWS of the sudden demise of Mrs. Alice
Young Clawson, which occurred on Wednes-
day, the 2nd. Inst., at St. George, Washington,
Co. brought unspeakable grief to many near con-
nections and relatives who had known and
loved her best, and feelings of deep sympathy
to a large circle of friends. The daughter of
President B. Young and wife of Mr. H. B.
Clawson, she was well known in the commu-
nity, and as a worthy lady was highly respec-
ted. Among the kindred hearts which remain
to mourn her loss, is that of her aged mother,
Mrs. Mary A. Young. She left also four youth-
ful sons, by whom the great bereavement will
be most keenly felt. She died in the thirty-
seventh year of her age.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts recently
distributed about fifty money prizes, her
own gifts all, to London canters wagoners
and donkey-drivers, who, at an afternoon
exhibition, satisfied their examiners that
their animals had been well cared for and
humanely treated.


SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 23rd, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: —
	The following incident came under my
observation, and is, I think, worthy of note.
I place it at your disposal.  As my sister,
Mrs. Melissa Kimball, was returning from
this city to her home in Parley’s Park, she
was thrown in company with a lady, appar-
ently of very respectable family, also very
quiet, intelligent and affable. She inquired,
on finding that Mrs. K. lived in the Park,
if she knew of a man named Pickard in
that vicinity. My sister replied that she
had known him for some time, and he was
in a most pitiable condition.  Between
drink and Spiritualism, he was at times quite
deranged. The lady said he was an old
friend of hers, of very respectable parents,
had a wife and son who were very anxious
about him; that his brothers had written
him repeatedly but at last concluded he was
dead, as they could get no word from him.
The lady, who had traced him to this coun-
try, then confessed that she was his wife
and had come to try and save him. She
had sold the comfortable home which she
had provided herself with and brought her
son, a six month old babe at the time her
husband came West, now a lad fourteen
years old.
	She found the man without much difficul-
ty in a saloon in Park City. He was asked
if he knew the lady and said no he had
never seen her. She then spoke her own
name, which seemed to awaken him as if
from a dream; and he exclaimed, "My God!
It is my wife—and she has come to [-]ve
me!”
	What a sight he had become, so low, so
degraded and filthy, he was loathsome!
	She, after much urging, prevailed on him
to accompany her to this city where she had
left their son. He stated that shortly after
he came to this country some one told him
his wife was not true to him and that had
driven him to drink and all that his broth-
ers could write him did not convince him
that this was false. His wife not wishing
the son to see him in this state, gave him
money to get him a suit of clothes, which
he took and went—to a saloon for drink.
She succeeded at last, however, in getting
him to leave the saloon and get him some
clothing. She then presented his son to
him. The scene was a most touching one.
One moment he would look at his wife and
son, the next upbraid himself as unfit to
live. He at last consented to accompany
them away from here to some place where
his depravity was not known and commence
life anew. Who can say there is no stability
in Woman? Where can you find the man
that would cling to his wife through “Good
and Evil report,” would cherish her mem-
ory through fourteen long years, hunt her
up, lift her from the lowest state of degra-
dation and try to save her? The rule is if
Woman sins put her down and trample on
her! But may we live to see this the ex-
ception, not the rule. 	 Yours Truly,
						R. M. JONES.


WHAT man must have his glass before he
can do a day's work?—A glazier.
	IF a colt's pistol has six barrels, how many
barrels ought a horse pistol to have?
	WHEN a lady stands at the hymeneal altar
with her intended, you may know she is
about to draw her beau into a knot.
	"Gracious me!" exclaimed a lady in a
witness box, "how should I know anything
about anything I don't know anything
about?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


"IS IT A CRIME FOR WOMAN
			TO LOVE?"
TO QUEERY.—EXPONENT, Nov. 15th, '74.

	For woman to love is no crime,
		(Though she love neither wisely nor well;)
	For love is a passion divine
		And may yet cleanse the black depths of hell.

	Love, even unsought, is no sin,
		Though direst imprudence, I own,
	For man is perverseness within,
		And values not things lightly won.

	Like a beast of the desert is man—
		If you fly he will swiftly pursue;
	But approach him, with heart in your hand.
		Distrustful, he flies before you,

	Your pearls, if you offer for naught,
		He thinks never came from the deep,
	For were they not shams subtly wrought,
		She surely had held them less cheap!

	"To blame?" yes, to blame! if she throw
		The pledge of her all thus away,
	Unknowing that where it may go
		It will be invited to stay.

	O sister! we dwell not in heaven
		But earth wherein guile brings us woe—
	Oh confess not the soul-gem be given!
		Till warmly besought to do so!

	If mortals were free from all guile
		As angels who see as they're seen,
	If never a heart-winning smile
		Concealed a foul ulcer within;

	If Scorn, with her finger upreared,
		Stood not ready to strike in her might,
	If even the mortal revered
		Could read your pure motives aright,

	Then womanhood's glorious crown
		Unasked might be given with pride;
	But in wilds where dire dangers abound,
		Oh, lay not your armor aside!

	No passion should break our control,
		No love supersede love of God—
	This anchor made fast to the soul
		Will save from the angriest flood.
									LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Preserve Fruit Jellies from Mold.—Cover the
surface one fourth of an inch deep with fine pulver-
ized loaf sugar.  When thus protected, the jellies
will keep for years in good condition, and free from
mouldiness.
	Small Bread Pudding.—Boil one pint of milk
with a piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel; pour it
on two ounces of bread-crumbs; add two eggs, half
an ounce of currants and a little sugar: steam it in
a buttered mold for about an hour.
	Plain Baked Eggs.—Butter a dish that will bear
the heat of the oven; break the eggs carefully into
it and season with a little butter, salt, and pepper
if desired; putting the butter in small pieces over.
Place in a slack oven till set, and serve.
	Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a dish well,
and sprinkle some currants all around it; then lay
in slices of bread and butter; to two eggs well
whipped add one pint of boiling milk, sweeten
with sugar and pour it over the bread and butter.
Bake in a hot oven.
	Toast and Eggs.—Break the eggs into a stewpan
and add a little salt, pepper and fresh butter; set
the stewpan over a moderate fire and stir round
with a spoon, being careful to keep every particle
in motion until the whole has become a smooth and
delicate thickish substance; have ready convenient
sized crisp pieces of toast, pour the eggs upon
them and serve.
	Cottage Cheese.—Place thick, loppered milk on
the stove, and let it heat thoroughly, not to cook,
or it will be hard. Pour into a hot cloth, and let
it drain until dry; season with salt and butter.
Should it be rather dry, moisten with milk or
cream, and make into balls. Some prefer what is
called "smearkase." Prepare the milk as stated
above, but, instead of making into balls, thin with
sweet cream and add a little pepper.
	To Clean Floor Oil-Cloths.—Soap should not be
[Column 2]
used in cleaning oil-cloths. To half a pail of hot,
soft water, add half a cup of washing fluid, or a
piece of sal-soda half the size of an egg, with a
scrubbing-brush or broom rub hard, putting on only
sufficient water so that it will not run off; wipe dry
with a soft cloth; it will look as bright and shining
as when new. This is a good way to clean com-
mon paint, as it easily removes smoke, grease, or
dust, and does not destroy the gloss or varnish. It
is also useful in washing windows.
	Rice Milk.—Wash a tablespoonful of good rice,
drain and put into a stewpan with a pint of milk
upon the fire; when boiling place it at the corner
to simmer until the rice is quite tender, (for inva
lids it must be a pulp); sweeten with sugar and it
is quite ready. Or if preferred it may be sea-
soned with a little butter and salt. It should be
about the thickness of well made gruel, and it is
very nutritious especially for an invalid who has
been long ill.
	Poached Eggs,—Put a pint of water in a stew
pan; add half a teaspoonful of salt, place it over
the fire and when boiling break your eggs into it as
near the surface of the water as possible, let them
boil gently about three minutes; care should be
taken not to boil too many together; if the yolk
separates from the white it may be presumed that
the egg is not fresh, though the same thing may
happen through awkwardness in poaching. After
they are taken carefully from the water, placed in a
warm dish and drained, lay over them some pieces
of butter, and place before the fire or in a warm
oven for a moment only. Some people think to
add a small quantity of vinegar to the water in
which eggs are poached is an improvement. 
	For Cleansing the Hair and Scalp.—In the
warm days of summer, with dust and perspiration,
the heads of people, especially of laborers and
children, get very dirty, and common washing will
not remove this. Here is a recipe, given by a no-
ted lecturer on hygiene: In a pint bottle put a
spoonful of olive oil and add two ounces of best
spirits of ammonia or hartshorn; shake. Then
mix with three ounces of alcohol and, when thor-
oughly mixed fill the bottle with soft water. Re-
member to put in the ingredients in the order named
or you will have "stuff," and no chemical union at
all. To apply, take a spoonful or two of this, with
a little warm water; dip a sponge or rag in and
wet the scalp thoroughly, now rinse off in a plenty
of warm water, and you will be surprised at the
amount of dirt, though you may have thought your
head perfectly clean. For the heads of young in-
fants it is just the thing, as it instantly removes the
dirty scurf without pain or trouble. It should be
rather weaker for a babe than for an adult.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	LIE DOWN AND REST.—Dr. Hall says the
best medicine in the world, more efficient
than all the potencies of the materia medi-
ca, are warmth, rest, cleanliness and pure
air. Some persons make it a virtue to brave
disease to "keep up" as long as they can
move a foot or crook a finger, and it some-
times succeeds; but in others the powers of
life are thereby so completely exhausted
that the system has lost all ability to recu-
perate, and slow and typhoid fever sets in,
and carries the patient to a premature
grave.  Whenever walking or working is
an effort, a warm bed and a cold room are
the first indispensable steps to a sure and
speedy recovery.  Instinct leads all beasts
and birds to quietude and rest the very mo.
ment disease or wounds assail the system.

	GOING TO BED.—We should never go to
bed with a hope for rest, sleep and perfect
repose until "all ready." The prelimina-
ries for retirement are just as important as
those for the day's duties. We must not go
to bed with an overloaded stomach, in an

[Column 2]
anxious or troubled state of mind, with
cold extremities, or without anticipating
or responding to the calls of nature in all
respects. Standing over a register, or be-
fore a warm stove, or in a heated room, is
not the best way to get warm for a night's
sleep. We should take such vigorous exer-
cise as will give quick circulation to the
blood, and not depend on artificial but natu-
ral heat. Attention to all these things, fol-
lowed by such devotional exercises as will
bring all the feelings, emotions and senti-
ments into accord with the divine will, sub-
duing passions, removing hatred, malice,
jealousy, revenge, and opening the portals
of heaven to all who seek rest, peace and
sweet repose.—Science of Health.
	EATING WITHOUT AN APPETITE.—Hall
says:—"It is wrong to eat without an appe-
tite, for it shows there is no gastric juice in
the stomach, and that nature does not need
food; and not needing it, there being no
fluid to receive and act upon it, it remains
there only to putrefy, the very thought of
which should be sufficient to deter any man
from eating without an appetite for the re-
mainder of his life. If a tonic is taken to
whet the appetite, it is a mistaken course,
for its only result is to cause one to eat more,
when already an amount has been eaten be-
yond what the gastric is able to prepare.
The object to be obtained is a larger supply
of gastric juice, not a larger supply of food;
and whatever fails to accomplish that essen-
tial object fails to have any efficiency to-
ward the cure of dyspeptic diseases. The
formation of gastric juices is directly pro-
portioned to the wear and tear of the sys-
tem, which is to be the means of supplying,
and this wear and tear can only take place
as the result of exercise. The efficient
remedy for dyspepsia is work—out-door
work—beneficial and successful in direct
proportion as it is agreeable, interesting and
profitable.
	CIDER AND COFFEE AS MEDICINES.—
Common sweet cider boiled down to one-
half makes a most excellent syrup for coughs
and colds for children—is pleasant to the
taste, and will keep throughout the year in
a cool cellar.
	In recovering from an illness, the system
has a craving for some pleasant acid drink.
This is found in cider which is placed on
the fire as soon as made, and allowed to
come to a boil, then cooled, put in casks, and
kept in a cool cellar. Treated thus it re-
mains for many months as good as the day
it was made.
	We once saved the life of an infant which
had been inadvertently drugged with laud-
anum, and was fast sinking into the sleep
which has no awaking, by giving it strong
coffee, cleared with the white of an egg, a
teaspoonful every five minutes until it
ceased to seem drowsy.—Hall's Jour. Health.


﻿ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL.

	Many men, many minds—many judges,
many judgments. In Illinois, the judges
in the Supreme Court held that the maxim of
independence, "all men are created equal,"
does not extend to women, and that by vir-
tue thereof, or of anything else, they have
no right of suffrage. In the same State,
another Supreme Court decides that this
maxim does apply to vagrant children, so
that a statute providing for the rescue of
such "little wanderers," and the commital
of them to a reformatory school is unconsti-
tutional, and a "tyrannical and oppressive"
infringement upon the liberties of the citi-
zens. In effect, therefore, juvenile va-


grancy receives judicial sanction, and the
State is powerless to protect and save desti-
tute minors and orphans! We thought
"Salus populi suprema lex."—Canada Law
Jrournal.


﻿			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.

					For the EXPONENT.
	My dear Sisters, prompted by a desire to
do good, I wish, with the Lord's help, to
give you some little food for thought. To
begin with some of the Lord's own sayings,
(Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 150th
page,) "Against none is his wrath kindled,
save those who confess not his hand in all
things." Now you must acknowledge the
hand of God in all circumstances under
which you are placed, or come under con-
demnation, which latter you do not wish to
do, therefore pause, reflect, and strive to
bring yourselve's into subjection to the will
of God, and the holy principles he has re-
vealed for the salvation of the human fam-
ily. Uphold and sustain your husbands in
all things in the Lord, and ever keep the
feeling in your hearts, that their motives
and desires are pure, though they may
sometimes come short of doing their duty.
It involves on you to make their burdens
light instead of adding to them. What-
ever may transpire, let your words and ac-
tions be for the promotion of peace and good
will, thus gaining the approbation of your
Holy Parent and the increased love of him
who of all others you most desire to please.
"Like begets like," and if we give kindness
we will receive the same in return. If your
husbands should, in your eyes, sometimes
fail to come up to the mark of perfection
that you have laid out for them, consider
they are but mortal, and likely, as well
as yourselves to step aside from the
straight and narrow path. Would you re-
quire more of another than you are able to
perform? And besides, you might not at
all times be righteous judges of another's
actions; remember it is only when filled with
the spirit of God that any one is capable of
judging righteously, or of comprehending
things in their true light. Then how nec-
essary it is to be possessed of that spirit
continually, realizing that it is as much a
duty to be happy as to perform any other
good act. The most charitable people are
the happiest, and each one who has a desire
to live the life of a true saint must cultivate
that charity which will never think evil
when it is possible to do otherwise. There
are very few who really mean to do wrong.
The Poet says:
	"Time to me this truth hath taught—
		'Tis a truth that's worth revealing—
	More offend from want of thought,
		Than from any want of feeling."
	Sisters, ever keep this in mind, and it
will aid materially in bringing you to that
state of happiness and union to which the
saints are striving to attain.
						M. A. F.

	PROVIDENCE CACHE Co., Nov. 29th 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	As one of your many subscribers, I would
humbly ask permission for a small insertion
in your columns.
	I have often thought I would like to
write, but realizing my inability to write
anything that would be of benefit to my sis-
ters, I have always refrained from trying.
Now, however, I have determined to try
and will do the best I can. "If we never
try, we will never learn to do better," one
of my sisters said in a late letter to the EX-
[Column 2]
PONENT. She had not, she said, "the cour-
age or power to stand up in meeting and
express her ideas and feelings." I fear that
this is the case with a great many of us,
and while perhaps, we may be afraid to
speak as we would like in meeting, we can
give utterance to our feelings through the
columns of our EXPONENT.
	We have a Relief Society here in Provi-
dence, the members of which, under the
presidency of Sister Mathews, meet once a
month. We have good meetings. Sister
Mathews always encourages the sisters to
do right, and be one with her in helping
to take care of the sick and needy.
	Since I have been a subscriber to the EX-
PONENT, I have been very much interested
in perusing its columns. I never take one
up to read, but I learn something whereby
I am benefitted. We often think we have
not leisure time to spare for reading, our
time being taken up with family affairs,
but if we would be determined, and make
up our minds to read, especially the EXPO-
NENT, we would derive much good from it,
and more so if we read to inform our minds
in regard to spiritual as well as temporal
welfare. I have always been a great lover
of books and literature, and ever since I
have had the responsibility of a family, I
can always find a little time to devote to
reading the papers as they come along.
	Wishing you success and a larger circula-
tion, and trusting that the next time I write
I may do better, I remain Your well-wisher,
				ELIZABETH S. NYE.


[Column 1]
		AN APPEAL TO WOMEN.

		BY CLARA E. SYLVESTER.

	Particularly to my sister woman do I ad-
dress myself. She seems unconscious of the
work that is required of her, and that God
intends her to perform, and that now is the
time to prepare herself for her future work.
Therefore I would that she awake to a
knowledge of the truth. In order to ob-
tain it she must seek it. To whom and
where should she go? Surely not to man!
But to the high unseen Ruler of the Uni-
verse. The way is open to all, and so sim-
ple that even a child may not err.
	A feeling of apathy and indolence exists
that must eventually be swept away by the
growth of the seeds of truth, right and
justice, that have been scattered broadcast
o'er the land. 'Tis time for action to take
the place of theory; time for woman to show
more self-reliance; time to break away from
false customs that are dragging her down-
ward and rapidly destroying true woman-
hood.
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has
done much to alleviate her condition. How
much more might be done, were she a 
recognized power, possessed of individu-
ality and courage, to act according to her
knowledge of right! Is she not amenable
to higher law? Then let her be guided by
that, rather than by a false state of society
and erring creeds.
	Woman, come out from the false state in 
which society has placed you! Be true to
yourself, true to nature and the God with-
in you. Many, very many would gladly
throw off the hypocritical mantle that en-
velopes them, but alas! the fear of public
censure binds them. The time is not far
distant when all must choose between the 
false and the true. Every one should stand
by the one great principle of right. What
we want is more persons who are willing to
labor hard with but small recompense.
[Column 2]
	Women, why will you remain in ignor-
ance in slavery, for slaves you are, slaves to
fashion, slaves to public opinion and slaves
to yourselves. Your mission is a high one.
Were you free and unfettered, you would
soon attain a higher state, and thereby re-
form society and remove the iron heel that
would crush you for daring to assume the
right of your own person.
	Woman, could you but see the power
given you by nature, and use that power to
elevate yourself; if you would aspire to the
high and moral standard marked out for 
you from the beginning; if you would seek
that high, noble, state, attainable only by
growth, by living nearer unto "nature's
God;" by striving to obey "Divine law;"
seeking to understand yourself; following
the dictates of your inner nature, take rea-
son for your guide; throw off the hypocriti-
cal mantle of society and come out in the 
light of truth; women, could you see the
better life to which you are hastening, to
which destiny is pushing you, and for which 
so many noble minds are working, you
would be willing to lend a helping hand
rather than retard the progress of events
by opposition and inaction.
	Strange that people are so long in wak-
ing up to these truths; strange they do not
recognize the work of a higher power;
strange they do not see that the world
is on the verge of a great change, and that
the human family are being slowly prepared
for the coming contest of right against
might.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	SWITZERLAND is a little cramped-up
country, but she sent us during the month
of June over a million and a half francs’
worth of silk ribbons, watches and cheese.
	AMONG the curiosities of Brazil is the
pottery-tree. The trunk does not exceed a
foot in diameter, but it grows to the height
of 100 feet. The chief peculiarity, how-
ever is in the nature of the wood and bark,
which contain so much silica that they are
used in the making of earthenware. The
fresh bark cuts like soft sandstone.
	A BROOKLYN gentleman mentions an ex-
traordinary instance of longevity in a single
family. There are five old ladies at his old
homestead. Four are widows, one is a
spinster. Their ages are as follows: Deb-
orah, ninety-six; Mary, ninety-five; Re-
becca, eighty-six; Elizabeth, eighty-two;
Harriet, seventy-six. They are daughters
of Capt. Zophar Weekes. His wife (their
mother) was a native of Jamaica, L. I., and
lived till over ninety. The father came
from near Huntington, L. I. The first,
third and fourth are the permanent occu-
pants of one house. All of them are well
preserved, able to go about and attend to
light work, and with the exception of a
little deafness in two instances have their
“faculties” scarcely impaired.
	MR. J. J. H. Gregory of Marblehead,
Mass., offers to give, during the coming
winter, a loaf of bread, morning and eve-
ning, ro every person in that town, who will
call upon him.


MISS Irene Smith is President of the
Excelsior Elocutionary Society of Corvallis,
Oregon, Miss Lou Taylor is Treasurer. 
	A SCRIPTURE lesson from Punch: Precep-
tor—“Now can, any of you tell me anything
remarkable in the life of Moses?” Boy
—“Yes, sir; he was the only man who broke
all the commandments at once!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
	IF a bird in the hand is worth two in the 
bush, it is no less true that a thorn in the
bush is worth two in the hand.
	IT is said that every woman appears dif-
ferent to every man, and every nature has
its separate watchword, which answers to
one and will not correspond to another.
Not always "just so."
	IT is related of Sir James Simpson, the
celebrated English physician, that the Duch-
ess of Buccleuch drove up to his door, and
sent her footman to tell that she waited
without. "Tell the Duchess," he replied,
"That Dr. Simpson is engaged with a wash-
erwoman."
	A THEATRICAL paper recently contained
the following advertisement: "Alice Gil-
more and her mother, Fanny Gilmore, have
consolidated, and will hereafter travel to-
gether, and be known as the Gilmore sis-
ters." This combination will be one of the
events of the season!
	DABNEY Jones, becoming restive under
a ten years term in the Washington Terri-
tory Penitentiary, got out his jack knife,
cut a hole in the concern, and stepped out
into the world. They are now going to put
on an additional layer of laths to make the
thing secure.
	THE word "imp" originally signified
"young man." Edward VI. is so styled in
a letter of Crammer, and a young son of
Dudley, Earl of Leicester, who, as is sup-
posed, was poisoned by his nurse, is des-
cribed as an imp in the inscription on his
tomb at Warwick.
	AN exchange feels sorry to learn a Ger-
man chemist has succeeded in making a
first-rate brandy out of sawdust. So are
we. What chances will the temperance
movement have when a man can take a rip-
saw and go out and get drunk on a fence
rail.
	THE moderator of a certain Presbytery in
Scotland is reported to have said to a candi-
date for the ministery, who had left broom-
making, "My young friend, the Presbytery
believes that all men should glorify God in
some way—some by preaching and some by
making brooms—and that you are one who
should make the brooms."
	A MINISTER, having a cultured, judicious
wife, invited her free criticism on his ser-
mons, much to his profit. On one occasion,
having preached from the text, "Remember
Lot's wife," he asked her opinion of the
discourse. Her reply was: "I think, hus
band, it was one of your poorest efforts, and
I would advise you to have nothing more
to do with other men's wives."
	AT a recent session of the Asiatic Society,
Mr. L. Schwendler showed a crow's nest,
made of pieces of telegraph wire, twisted
together in a most ingenious and knowing
manner. He said that lately such nests had
been frequently found, and that the crows
often selected telegraph posts, between
which and the telegraph wires they built
those wire nests, causing what is known as
"earth" and "contact," and interfering with
communication. Crows, however, were by
no means the only animals interfering, by
their domestic arrangements, with overland
telegraphy. Wasps build their mud nests
in the porcelain insulators, causing, in rain
and dew, leakage from the wire to the
ground. Birds of prey frequently dropped
dead fish and other offal upon the wires,
causing contact. These were all frequent
[Column 2]
sources of temporary interference with
telegraphic communication upon overland
lines, and they, combined with many other
facts not necessary to mention, seemed to 
show that it would be a very great advan-
tage to use subterranean telegraphs instead 
of overland lines.


ACTING CHARADES.

	The curtain of the back drawing-room
was drawn aside, and we were rather sur-
prised to see nothing but a wooden rocking-
horse on the temporary stage. We were
told to guess an island in the Greek archi-
pelago. After somr demur one individual,
brighter than the rest, exclaimed, “Delos—
deal horse.” Right.
	The curtain fell, and after a pause rose
again, displaying to the astonished lookers-
on the very identical, irrepressible rocking-
horse, with his head in the contrary direc-
tion. We were told to guess another island
in the Greek Archipelago.
	There was a dead silence. Some one
vainly suggested "Chios," mispronounced
shy horse; but that would not do, for the
deal horse was as steady as old Time. At
length a small boy, late from school, ex-
claimed, "Samoss!" and it was the same
horse.
	The curtain fell. The next scene was a
portly gentleman, who was met by a young
girl, who said:
	"Doctor, I am glad to meet you."
	A word of five syllables. Give it up.
	"Metaphysician"—met a physician.
	The curtain fell, and was again drawn up
—only to exhibit the same portly gentle-
man and the girl meeting again.
	A word of three syllables.
	“Metaphor”—met a fore was the solution.


BEFORE BREAKFAST.

	It is a fact that some ladies, who in the
street and in the parlor are attractive in ap-
pearance, come down to breakfast in what
is called dishabille. Our opinion is that the
whole family ought to look well in the
morning. It is important that the calico
and the breakfast dress be rightly adjusted
as well as the afternoon silk and the basque.
it takes but little longer and it pays well.
The children of the household ought to un-
derstand that whatever can be done by
brush, and mirror, and ribbon, should be
done at the start of the day. The first hour
of the morning decides whether our children
shall be gentlemen and ladies or boors and
slovens. But the younger members of the
family will not observe domestic order if the
father and mother look like a “perfect
fright.” Parents are the mirror by which
their children dress.—Golden Dawn.


A PRACTICAL joke was once attempted to
be played on Mr. Erskine as he went one
day to Westminster Hall with his ample
bag crammed full of briefs. Some waggish
barristers hired a Jew's boy to go and ask
him if he had "any old clo's to sell?" "No,
you little Hebrew imp," exclaimed the in-
dignant counselor, "they are all new suits."


AN Irish post-having driven a gentleman
a long stage during torents of rain, the gen-
tleman civilly said to him, "Paddy are you
not very wet?" Arrah, I don't care about
being very wet; but, plaze your honor, I'm
very dry."


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
				GO TO
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF 
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50		-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
VOL 3. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1875.			NO. 15


[Column 2]
		A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
			       
     FROM THE "HERALD OF HEALTH."
			       
	On the first day of each dawning year it
is the, custom of nearly all civilized men and
women, throughout the world, to address
each other in salutations of smiling cheer
and mutual good wishing. It is a very an-
cient and beautiful custom. Old earth would
be a sad and dreary home to us all without
such recurring occasions for gleeful and
kindly greetings. Yet, beautiful as this glad
custom is, it would be still more beautiful
if the words in which its import is conyeved
were not so very frequently contradicted by
the acts which accompany it. A young
man enters the drawing-room to make his
New Year's call. The ladies with joyous
greeting and happy New Year wishings,
perhaps proffer the wine glass, and thus
sanction a habit and a custom that will al-
most certainly make the New Year an un-
happy one. There is certainly no Happy
New Year to be found in this way of wish-
ing it. Oh! fine and beautiful friends, do
not in your mistaken obedience to fashion
 and custom—a custom of a darker day than
ours, with the light of science and progress
beaming on it—permit yourselves to become
allies of such a tempter. But we must not
confine our New Year’s salutation entirely
to our lady friends. There are young men,
brothers and friends, whom we desire to
council; and we pray you who have hereto-
fore toyed with this fashionable practice of
sipping wine on New Year’s day to do so no
longer. It opens a door which you may
never be able to shut; it unchains a monster
that may devour you as you lie helplessly
chained to the habit.
	But wine drinking on New Year’s day is
not the only habit that curses and dwarfs our
race. If it were we could soon oust it from
its abode and send it to the dark and forgot-
ten past. The curse of lethargy lies like a
spell on many promising youths, who are sur-
rounded by wealth and all their hearts de-
sire, so they do not rouse themselves to a
proper appreciation: of the dignity and
'grandeur of life. To all such we say: Cut
yourselves loose from your moorings and
throw yourselves into the current of life's
work, and fight its battles nobly, making the
earth brighter and better for your life. Then
there is the curse of overwork and worry,
that grinds away the lives of the very best
of our kind, long before they should go
leaving a void that cannot be filled. Then
again there is the curse of ignorance, that
wrecks multitudes that are wortrh saving;
and the curse of tobacco, that befouls our
fair land from end to end, and the curse of
disease, that might and should be blotted
out; and worse than all, the great curse of
sensuality, that hides its head in the heart
and soul of the land, and fouls and blots the
fair face of humanity, till all cry out to God
for help. Oh! friends and brothers, these
curses it belongs to us to remove. Shall we
not do it? Shall we not, as the New Year
dawns on our vision, rouse ourselves to the
Herculean task, and throw off the loads
which weigh us down? But we must not
preach a long sermon, with a long face, and
so we wish a Happy New Year to friends

[Column 2]
and readers everywhere, and will end by
giving a few hints that may aid us in gain-
ing that blessing that adds so much to our
strength, our courage, our hope, our power
to endure.
	Happiness comes by keeping the body
and mind healthy and strong. Happiness
comes from the overflow of life. True, many
are happy who are not healthy, but they
are favored mortals. Happiness comes
from wholesome occupation.
	It also comes from rest and recreation.
	It comes from study and reflection.
	It comes from moderate wealth, wisely
used.
	It comes from friends, and sweet commun-
ion with those we love.
	It comes from homes and children.
	It comes from love to God and man.
	It comes from the joys of pure and unde-
filed religion. 
	It comes from hope and love, faith and
charity.
	It is the gift of God to those who love
him, and wisely use what he has bestowed
on them. Let us, then, one and all, as the
New Year breaks on our vision, wish each
other a happy New.Year, and each do some-
thing to make it so, not only for ourselves
but for others. Then shall joy fill our hearts,
and life be sweet and beautiful.


FROM ST. GEORGE.

				17th December,  1874.
Dear EXPONENT:—
	I noticed an item in a late number of your
excellent paper, in which it is asserted that
the little town of Plano, Ill., is without a
saloon or whiskey shop. That is nice and I
could wish every other little town and big one
too would follow the example. If that item
is worthy of remark, I feel to place Utah on
the credit list too. There are, in our Terri-
tory, over one hundred cities and towns,
containing populations varying from one
hundred to twenty thousand. Out of the
number, there are as many as seventy-five
cities and towns, that grant no licenses to
sell spirits, and have no saloons; among the
number I am proud to place our delightful
city in the lead upon that list—we have no
saloons, gaming houses, nor any institution
that is a breeder of immorality or crime.
We have made, the past season, 20,000 gal-
lons of wine, and yet I have not seen a
drunken man in three months, I might say
six.
	Now, are we not excusable for the exer-
cise of a little modest pride for our adopted
city? as well as for all others, who refuse to
put the cup to another's lip.
	The weather is charming. To-day I
picked fresh from the garden two bouquets
for the mantle.  My house plants are doing
finely, and it would give me pleasure to an-
swer any queries of those who desire aid or
information tending to the increase of beau-
tiful flowers, or delicious fruit. The work
on the temple is very rapidly progressing, I
am told that fifty tons of rock are daily
placed on the walls.
	President Young seems to be in good
health and excellent spirits. I saw him tak-
ing an airing in his carriage to-day. Bros.


﻿Branch, Romney and Snow (not Prest.) have
leased the Gardener’s Club Hall, for purposes
of amusement, and are erecting a stage and
getting in scenery preparatory to giving
some rational amusements for the Holidays,
and many of the long winter evenings.
	For the moment adieu.
						FLORA.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	YALE opened recently her 175th academic
year. Her examinations for admission are
much more searching of recent years than
formerly, so that it can no longer hold true,
as was formerly said, that she was "easy to
enter but hard to stay in."
	PARIS dispatches say the Rothschilds
have advanced 30,000,000 reals to the Span-
ish Government, and to the bankers of Madrid
150,000,000 reals more. Rumors prevail
that Don Carlos is negotiating with ex-
Queen Isabella. 
	COUNT Zobowitz, an Austrian Lieutenant,
lately made a heavy bet that he would ride
from Vienna to Paris on one horse in fifteen
days. He won his bet, being just twelve
minutes within the time and his horse show-
ing no signs of fatigue. He was received
at the Barriere du Trone by 2,000 people.
The bets on the event are said to be more
than $1,000,000.
	IN Russia there is but one physician to
17,000 souls. In some of the provincial di-
visions the disproportion is still greater.
In one, Cherdink, there is only one to every
30,000 persons. There is only one hospital
to every 175,000, one lying-in hospital to
every 6,000 women, and but one deaf and
dumb institution to every 11,000 inhabi-
tants. In the army there is one hospital to
every 5,000 men. Prussia has one surgeon
to every 1,250 soldiers. Italy has one phys-
cian to every 2,280, and England to every
3,180 persons.


LITTLE FOLKS' DICTIONARY.

	A writer in the Schoolday Magazine has
gathered together the following dictionary
of words as defined by certain small people
here and there:
	Back-biter—A flea.
	Bed-time—Shut-eye-time.
	Dust—Mud with the juice all squeezed
out.
	Fan—A thing to brush the warm off
with.
	Fins—A flshe’s wings.
	Ice—Water that stayed out in the cold
and went to sleep.
	Monkey—A very little boy with a tail.
	Nest-egg—The egg the old hen measures
by to make new ones.
	Pig—A hog’s little boy.
	Salt—What makes your potato taste bad
when you don’t put any on.
	Snoring—Letting off sleep.
	Snow—Rain all poped out white.
	Stars—The moon’s eggs.
	Wakefulness—Eyes all the time coming
unbu toned.
	A Small Catechism—Kittenchism.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
	HOLIDAY RHYMES

Happy, joyous, merry christmas!
	Can it be that welcome sound?
Yes, again the day is with us,
	Passing on its yearly round.

"Merry Christmas!" "Merry Christmas!"
	Gleeful hearts their gladness gush—
Hark! conflicting sounds are mingled;
	Mirthful ones—a moment hush!

"Santa Claus in last night's visits,
	Childish treasures to bestow, 
Missed SO MANY little stockings,
	That he filled a year ago!"

Yet, O! weep not, loving "Santa,"
	For the tiny missing feet
Do not stray, they have but entered
	A bright, sunny, safe retreat.

Sing again ye joyous earthlings,
	Ere the garlands disappear
Which have crowned your Merry Christmas,
	Dawns the Happy, glad New Year.

May it be indeed the brightest
	That our lives have ever known;
May we realize the mercies
	God hath to His children shown.

And draw nearer to Our Father,
	Happy that THE TIME is near,
When His Saints shall greet the dawning
	Of a glorious, grand New Year!
								LULA.


﻿R.S. REPORTS.

	FIRST WARD, SALT LAKE CITY,
		 			   	Dec.	15th	1874.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	We are improving, as we hope to con-
tinue doing, through the blessings of the
Lord in whom we trust, as a Relief Society
and as individuals. We endeavor to be al-
ways on hand to assist the poor or to aid in
any good undertaking. We had a general
meeting on Thanksgiving Day, and had our
sisters from the city, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
P. Woodruff, Mrs. E. Howard, Mrs. W.
East, Mrs. S.M. Kimball and Mrs. M. Young.
The principles of unity, Celestial Marriage
and the training of children were the chief
subjects spoken upon. Besides the sisters
named, remarks were made by our Presi-
dent Mrs. M.G. Chase, and her Counselors
Mrs. Julia Adams and Mrs. Sidney Thayne;
also by our Bishop, Joseph Warburton. A
good spirit prevailed and we felt that it truly
was a Thanksgiving Day.
		MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL,
							Secretary. 
		
	The Relief Society of Smithfield, Cache
county, is reported by the Secretary, Mrs.
Jane S. Coleman, to be still faithfully striv-
ing to comfort and bless the poor in their
midst, and to promote the interests of the
Kingdom of God. They have lately made
four bed quilts for a donation towards build-
ing the Temple.


[Column 1]
﻿					For the Exponent
		PRESENT AND FUTURE.
		         
	I have not chosen this subject to write
upon because I feel competent to treat it
thoroughly or throw any additional light
upon it; but because it is a subject of great
interest to me, and by thinking, speaking,
and writing upon this, as upon all other sub-
jects, I know that the information I receive
will be more strongly impressed upon my
mind.
	The Present is a time which we all desire
should be as pleasant as possible, and it is
within the power of each person to make it
so. We in a great degree have the order-
ing of our lives, either for joy or sorrow.
We have also the power within ourselves to

[Column 2]
make more or less sunshine and happiness
for all who are within the circle of our in-
fluence. Although we may be placed in
very trying circumstances, and surrounded
by those who take delight in troubling and
perplexing, still we can have true inward
peace, by reliance upon the "Giver of every
good and perfect gift," and by acting in ac-
cordance with the teachings of the Holy
Spirit which is sure to bring satisfaction to
the soul. We can invariably find happiness
while listening to the dictates of a con-
science made sensitive under the influence
of the Spirit of God. We must not rely
upon pleasant surroundings and devoted
friends for enjoyment. But we must have
pure, contented spirits within before we
can secure happiness from without. True
happiness can only be enjoyed through the
knowledge that we are doing right and are
entitled to the approbation of our Heavenly
Father.
	Our present time should be devoted to
cultivation that our hearts may feel the in-
spiration which leads us on to duty and use-
fulness. That the desire of our whole souls
may be to do good, that we may each one
have an "Eye single to the Glory of God."
When we reflect upon how earnestly we de-
sire happiness during our short sojourn here
upon earth, is it not reasonable to think that
we will even more earnestly desire it in the
hereafter which is to be everlasting? And
when we think that our conduct in the
present is to determine our state in the Fu-
ture is it not enough to inspire us to put
forth greater exertions than we have ever
done before, and try to obtain a reward
worthy of the noblest ambition? There is
a record kept on high out of which we are
to be judged, and in which will be recorded
every action of our lives, every word that
we utter. And the account in the great
Future will stand as a witness either for or
against us. We may indulge in thoughts
that were they known to our fellow beings
would cause our cheeks to burn with shame.
But they are wafted on high, and are known
to God and his holy angels. In our work of
preparation we must school our feelings to
bear and forbear, to be tried to the utter-
most in the cause of righteousness, and for-
get not to acknowledge the hand of a just
God in all our afflictions. For against none
is the anger of the Lord kindled except
those who acknowledge not his hand in all
things. My young sisters, when we reflect
upon the many opportunities that we have
in the Present for cultivating our minds,
and when we think of the responsible po-
sitions that are awaiting us in the not far
distant Future—positions that we are ex-
pected to fill with honor, as wives and
mothers in Israel, should it not arouse us
from a state of indifference in which we re-
pose, thinking all will be well? It is our
duty to prepare ourselves for bringing forth
and cultivating the minds of those who are
to bear off the Kingdom of God triumph-
ant. It has been said that the children of
the saints are growing up in unbelief of the
principles of the Gospel. Let us examine
ourselves and see if we believe that this is
the true plan of salvation, and if it is not
satisfactory to us, if there are some princi-
ples that we cannot see clearly, let us not
cease to pray to God until he gives us a
testimony of the truth of the work in which
we are engaged. And then, having re-
ceived a testimony, let us live up to every
requirement, omitting no known duty. And
while doing so, we may have the assurance
that the angels are preparing for us crowns
of eternal salvation, the reward of our
present faithfulness.			L. T.


For the EXPONENT.
		HERE AND HEREAFTER.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	How often we hear such expressions as
"The present is ours, the future we know
nothing about, it is all uncertainty, wrapt
in profound mystery." We should be care-
ful to qualify our words and not fall into the
channel of tradition and past education, for-
getting that the light of revelation has
dawned upon us; that a Divine Messenger
has been sent to tell us we are HERE by our
own consent. We are not left to grope in
darkness and in superstition, misguided, we
have been more peculiarly favored. All the
learning of Christendom has not made plain
the simple fact, that we had a previous ex-
istence. The gifted and immortalized By-
ron in his Celebrated prayer, one of the
finest poems ever written, cried out in his
anguish of heart,
	“Without my own consent, I came."
	We are here for a purpose, every one of
us; here to prove our integrity before high
heaven; here to develop the faculties which
have been implanted in our natures, and to
make good use of our time in doing our Fa-
ther's work. Not to abuse, or neglect our
opportunities for advancement. Do we order
our lives with reference to the hereafter,
keeping the conviction continually in view,
not in fear, not in dread, but guiding, di-
recting, inspiring us to achieve a work of
which we need not be ashamed when we go
home again into the presence of our Father?
We must render an account then, without
help from others; without the influence of
friends; not resting upon another's faith;
not trusting to another's knowledge; our
own acts, our own merits must speak for
themselves. We are permitted to help each
other here, to reach out after the weak and
erring, and O! how kind and merciful and
tender we should be, that we lay not a straw
in their path. But ever watchful of those
around us, or those entrusted to our care and
guidance, demonstrate our true charity by
genuine acts of mercy; strengthening, com-
forting, sustaining those whose hearts are
aching, whose bosoms have been pierced,
reminding them of the hereafter in which
they must act their own individual parts.
Thus we may make soft pillows for our
heads when we come to lie in the grave;
showing that sweet charity which is needful;
commending where we can, objecting where
we must, sincere in sorrow for a fault, re-
joicing without envy for a virtue; daring to
stand alone if necessary, having sufficient
moral courage to condemn vice; and although
some hate, some deride and many shun us,
we will not go weakly along with the cur-
rent stream of popularity; though the world
be loud to condemn us, and though we suf-
fer wrong, we look forward to the great
hereafter.
	Shall we be sorry then for any strait and
narrow places through which we have passed
safely, for any crooked path we have trodden
alone? Will there not be joy in our hearts
for the experience we have gained, for the
victory we have achieved.
	Mothers, sisters, we are the pioneers of a
great army who are learning to battle for
life with its opposing elements; and for all
the sorrowful, for all the weak, for all who
have borne neglect in silence and in meek-
ness, for all who have sought to live pure
lives there is one resource which never fails;
therefore let them look from the shattered
idol of their hopes here, from the broken
mirror to the unbroken light reflected from
the Eternal Love that never fails. And re-


member still that all pure love brings its bur-
den as well as its joy; but let HIM be always
nearest, His voice always clearest to be heard,
easiest to be understood, dearest to follow;
what He desires our closest care. The voice
of God is no inarticulate music, but a living
voice, whose “Woe unto the workers of in-
iquity" is real and needed as his “Come un-
to, me all ye that are weary and heavy la-
den.”
	The present is good, if we only under-
stood ourselves properly and we are learning
it daily; and as we learn trying to benefit
others; the future is ours, we belong to it,
we shall assuredly have to take part in it;
and if we can only thoroughly prepare our-
selves here, refreshing and gladdening
others, who may weary of the way, blessing
humanity and advancing true knowledge,
we shall indeed receive a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward in the great here-
after.
SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 11th, 1874.


crush out every feeling of joy and interest
in the happiness of others, every feeling of
charity, of patience and endurance for their
failings and sorrows.
	Whether God requires of us the fulfill-
ment of this commandment in its fullest
sense and meaning I know not; at present,
to us it seems impossible.
	We know that to look upon bright spark-
ling waters, to behold others partaking
freely, will not quench our burning thirst;
nor will it satisfy the knawing hunger to
gaze upon the board spread with plenty.
But we fall far short of even a partial fulfill-
ment, and there is much, very much to do
before He could in any wise say, you have
loved your neighbor is yourself.
							HOPE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		GOOD MANNERS.

	Written for and read before the 14th Ward
Literary Association, a few evenings pre-
vious to the death of the author.

	I have some where read that "Man's great
business is to improve his mind and govern
his manners." And again, "Mend your
manners and that will mend your fortune."
I do not call my subject "Etiguette," for
that is suggestive of much that is frivolous.
But good manners founded on the great law
of kindness embraced in the "Golden Rule,"
"Do unto others as you would have them do
unto you," is what I wish to advocate.
	This principle if given heed to will lead
us aright early and late, at home or abroad,
in public or in private, in the small group as
well as in the great assembly.  It will be a
sufficient guide in the intercourse of father
with son, husband with wife, teacher with
pupil, friend with friend, citizen with stran-
ger and so we might go on indefinitely.
	Where this law is observed in any house-
hold, we will see deference for age, com-
passion for the oppressed, sympathy for the
sick, forgiveness for the guilty penitent,
mercy for the erring, praise for the worthy
act.--In short, there can be no time so late
or so early, no place so public or private, no
station so exalted or obscure, no extreme so
great that the rays of THIS SUN may not
penetrate with genial light and warmth.
	If good manners founded upon this law
of which I have spoken, were prevalent
among the people, should we see such
marked disregard for the comfort of others
as we sometimes do in our public assemblies?
Should we find young people laughing and
talking either in the Tabernacles or in the
Ward meeting? Would young men and
children be rushing to secure the best seats,
while the Patriarch with frosted locks, the
grandma trembling with the weight of years,
or the mother with her sleeping infant in
her arms was standing in the aisle? Would we
see scores of people rising to leave when a
verse or two, and twenty words of prayer
will dismiss the meeting? Would the hal-
lowed quiet of the Sabbath evening be dis-
turbed by a rabble of children let loose for a
frolic? No, we should not be annoyed with
any of these things. I sometimes think it
would be well if our children were all re-
quired, like those of the Presbyterians, to
stay in the house and read some good book,
and thus preserve the peaceful spirit of the
Sacramental day.
	Sacramental! This brings to my mind,

[Column 2]
what I often see, young people partaking
with great levity of the emblems of our
Savior's death. Will not this levity affect
the minds of strangers as the desecration of
the Bible and the cross has the Japanese?
Will not the conduct of the children be re-
garded as an index to the character of the
parents? Who is the father that has reared
such sons! Who is the mother that has
trained such daughters? Will the son or
daughter who feared not God and His ser-
vants sufficiently to refrain from idle talk
and rude conduct in the great Tabernacle,
be found careful of the feelings of a mother
or sister at home?
	In the old church where my father's fami-
ly worshipped, in the days of my childhood,
there was on young lady who was to me a
perfect model of good behavior.  Her style
of dress was chaste yet elegant; her walk
energetic yet graceful; the modest air with
which she entered the door and passed along
the aisle was truly captivating. And then
she sat so still. I never saw her turn her
head to the right or to the left to gaze at
anybody—and as to whispering, I should as
soon have expected the cushions to speak
audibly as for this lovely girl to open her
lips in vain gossip in the house of God!
	You can very soon tell what sort of a
home a person has been reared in, or what
the teacher is in the school where he or she
has been educated. You may be sure when
you meet a woman who possesses a good
heart and cultivated head, that at the fire-
side where she was nurtured and in the
school-room where she was educated, good
manners received due attention.
				  ELEANOR J. PRATT.


﻿LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.

	All day long this commandment of our
Savior has been sounding in may ear, as
though He were repeating again the words
spoken so many hundred years ago; and
wherever I go I seem to see them writ-
tea in letters bold and indelible.
	Many, many times I have asked, what
did He mean when He. said “Love thy
Neighbor as thyself,” and left the com-
mandment to be handed down to all future
generations?
	Did He know how strongly developed is
the love of self, how it deafens the ear to
the cries of our fellow creatures, how it
blinds the eye to their pain and wants, and
chills or crushes out the purest and most
noble impulses of the heart? Did He real-
ize the weakness of human nature and still
speak those words to us, and expect obedi-
ence? Would He tell us to do that which is
impossible, or did he speak in jest or mock-
ery?
	It is a state of' perfection we must attain
unto before we are prepared for His pres-
ence and glory, and if so what are its re-
quirements?
	Does it merely imply a willingness, or
even a desire to share with others the bless-
ings, the plenty and happiness that we en-
joy, retaining still our portions? Or is it to
stand by and see some object for which we
have lived, have hoped and prayed through-
out long days and years, given to another,
and with words of joy on the lips, and joy
in the heart—such joy as we had felt had
the prize been ours—thank God, and be con-
tent and happy in anothers joy?
	The subject is worthy of our deepest
thought and most careful study, and of ear-
nest endeavor to think less of ourselves and
more of the suffering humanity around us;
lest in the day of reckoning we are found
wanting. Let not this mighty love for self


﻿READING MADNESS; 
	We are again reminded of the dangers
which surround us all, even in pursuit of
the most innocent amusements and the
plainest duties. For instance, reading is
both an amusement and duty to those who
can reach books, and not to read the current
news in the papers is almost looked upon as
criminal at this day in this type-enlightened
country. And yet reading is sometimes
pernicious even to healthy minds, if the
reader absorbs and digests the matter with
avidity and thoroughness. There are sev-
eral instances of students reading them-
selves into every symptom of disease which
elicited their intense interest. Somebody
said to an old apostle that much learning
had made him mad. Whether this was the
fact or not, we know that many persons have
read themselves into incurable insanity, and
it is not at all surprising that religious read-
ing has made many monomaniacs and pious
fanatic.s One curious case of pernicious
reading is that of a doctor, who, though he
never touched intoxicating drinks. read
himself into a clear case of delirium tremens
by intense study of those “jim-jams.” He
actually got the name of being a habitual
drunkard, his practice fell off, and it was
with great difficulty he was finally cured.
Symptoms of consumption and gout and
other diseases have been produced in like
manner, which were almost unmanageable,
and came near proving fatal. The last case
of this character is that of a prominent citi-
zen of Carrollton, La., who read himself in-
to the most violent symptoms of hydropho-
bia. He became intensely interested in the
late newspaper accounts of that disease, and
read everything he could reach on the sub-
ject. It is unnecessary to describe the symp-
toms he developed. They were sufficiently
severe to show that he was in real agony,
and terrible enough to alarm all his friends.
The sight of a dog or of water threw him
into violent convulsions. He loathed food
and drink, and became so violent that it
was necessary four or five men should be-
come his constant watchers day and night.
During his spasms he frothed at the mouth,
and rolled over the floor and yelped like a
dog. Under careful medical treatment he
is likely to recover his wonted heath, but it
 will be a long time before his friends can
trust him to see a dog. This case, which
seems to be well authenticated—though the
name is withheld—is in harmony with the
theory advanced by some that hydrophobia
in man is in nearly every case the result of
a diseased imagination.—St Louis Republi-
can.


A BOARDING house in Greensburg, Ind.,
advertises to furnish “gentlemen with pleas-
ant and comfortable rooms, also one or two
gentlemen with wives.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1875.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
			CHARITY.
	I never thought nor understood much
about charity. But of late, there are many
different opinions expressed concerning it;
which has caused me to think more about it
and search out what I could to gain intelli-
gence. I find that it is not merely giving
to others that makes real chairity. The
more I understand about it, the more it
teaches me to pray and to have faith in God.
And my great desire is that He will let His
Holy Spirit rest upon me, that I may have
that real charity within me, which will
teach me how to act towards those around
me. By reading I find how charity was
taught in days of old. Paul says, “Though
I speak with the tongues of men, and of
angels and have not charity, I am become
as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbol.
Though I bestow all my goods, to feed the
poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity, it profiteth
me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is
kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth
not itself, is not puffed up.” This is the.
kind of charity we will have to learn and
practice before we can become one.
							S. A. C.
	11th Ward, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
			BEAVER, DEC. 8th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	DEAR FRIEND:—Allow me thus to ad-
dress you, although I have not had the pleas-
ure of personally knowing you.
	We had a pleasant time last evening at
Sister Tyler’s, although she is quite ill.
While I was making a call there, your
father and mother came in on their way to
St. George. We had the privilege of re-
ceiving our Patriarchal Blessings from your
father, which to me, is no small thing. We
do not often meet with any of—“The good
old Stand Bys”—I call them, in these times 
when there is such a mixture of Gentile and
Jew, those who think they are Mormons and
those who know they are not, but manage
to keep a “coat of many colors” which may
be turned and re-turned just to suit conve-
nience and cheat the wear of public opinion.
Brother Tyler and my husband are Patri-
archs also, and we had a blessing meeting
last evening in which we truly rejoiced.
Sister Tyler was full of faith and we are in
hopes she will reap much benefit from the
visit. My heart beats with warmest feelings
of respect and love forthose staunch and true
spirits—the bold Pioneers of this Church.
They are slowly passing away from our
midst, and I feel as I think of it to-day,
what a great privilege it would be to gather
all who are now living, in some comfortable,
commodious place, and have a feast once
more, a feast of fat things, a feast of the
beauties of the Kingdom, a feast of thought
and experience brought forward to cheer
and instruct, ere many last farewels should
be said.
	The people of Beaver are striving to do
as near right as possible, though oftentime
it seems against fearful odds, those who de-
light in troubling the Saints being numer-
ous about here at present.
	With many kind wishes, I am sincerely
yours,					A.	B.	C.


﻿ENVY is a littleness of soul which cannot
see beyond a certain point; and if it occupy
not the whole space, feels itself excluded.


﻿PRACTICAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

	We have found a woman’s rights woman
in a practical sense, one who puts into prac-
tice the theories of the strong-minded, with
a strong purpose. We refer to Mrs. Brower
of Ottawa. Left a widow with two small
children on her hands, she at once concluded,
to take care of them and herself. She en-
gaged in selling musical instruments and in
the short space of four years has estab-
lished a business of twenty thousand dollars
a year. She has never allowed a note to go
to protest or failed to pay promptly all her
liabilities. She employs four men with
teams and wagons which she owns, to sell
instruments. She has lately added sewing
machines to her stock. She buys in all cas-
es for cash, and sells nothing on commission.
Her business now affords a profit of $4,000
per year above expenses. Here is a woman
of whom nerveless, worthless, silly simper-
ing women, may, if they will, learn very
valuable lessons in self-reliance and self-
support.—“Earlville Transcript”


[Column 1]	
		﻿OUR NEW YEAR’S STORY.
	With to-day, the holidays for the present
season are ended, but the New Year is only
just begun. We feel impressed to greet our ro-
mance loving friends, as well as those possessed
of more matter-of-fact natures, with something
suitable to the occasion.
	As this is unquestionably an age of immor-
tality, when the world "loves darkness more
than light,” we are aware that the announce-
ment of a highly colored fiction, the work of a
highly imaginative brain, would “take” a hun-
dred per cent more readily than the assertion
that a plain, simple, yet very interesting, “true
story” was about to be told. Yet we venture
upon the latter declaration at the risk of loosing
many attentive readers. the story we propose
to give, is, indeed, strictly true; and to many
of the personal friends of our heroine—who
still lives to grant permission for the publicity
of her story—the incidents to be related will be
familiar.	 
	Sixty-two years ago to day, it was Sunday,
and there was a funeral at Holliston Burk-
shir county, Mas-achusetts. The deceased
was a young man, not thirty years of age at
the time of his death. Yet he was a widower,
the father of a four year old daughter left
motherless when but one month old, and a
bridegroom elect.
	Of all the mourners who had gathered there
 to pay their last respects to one who had borne
 through life a spotless name, moving in a most
respectable circle in society, was a pale faced,
dark eyed girl, the affianced bride of that one
departed.
	Rhoda Richards was twenty-eight years of

[Column 2]
age; less than medium height with a small
trim figure and a face usually expressive of in-
nocent fun and merriment. But upon that
New Year’s day, while the world around her
reveled in gayety and pleasure, she sat like one
from whose heart the last faint ray of sunshine
had gone out forever. 
	She had loved as woman loves but once in a
life-time. She was very soon to have been
wedded to the object of that love, the mortal re-
mains of which now lay before her cold and
dead. For sixteen days and nights she had
watched over him, never allowing herself to be
persuaded from his room, except for an hour or
two at a time, when tired nature could no longer
resist the influence of reasoning friends, and
never entertaining a thought but that he must
and would recover.
	At last, when he had ceased to breathe, she
too sank down silent and senseless, as one
whose heart throbs have been forever stilled.
Yet, as grief seldom kills, she awoke again to 
painful consciousness, and opened her eyes
once more in mortality, to meet the tender,
pitying gaze of her mother who bent anxiously
over her administering restoratives.
	“Do you want to die with him?” was the
solicitous inquiry of that sympathizing moth-
er, in a soft low tone.
	Did she? would she have accompanied him
to his spirit home had such been the gracious
will of heaven? was there ought she could de-
sire or even endure to live for now? Ah! there
still remained one token, one little pledge of
love to bind her to the earth. She remem-
bered the child—his child—and faintly an-
swered her mother “No!”
	The dead mother of little Susan Damon,
(yes, Susan! in those days, be it remembered,
people did not dote on nicknames and pet
names as they do in these) had been to Rhoda
an own, dear cousin.  At the time of her death,
in her last moments she had, daughter like,
bequeathed the babe to her own mother. And
as soon as the services of a wet nurse could
be dispensed with, Susan’s grandmother had
taken her into her home and heart, feeling
that the child was as much her own as its
mother had been. But a few months prior to
the death of the little girl’s father, the grim 
destroyer had entered the home where she was
nestled, to take away its chief head and sup-
port.
	Being thus left a widow with all the cares 
of an almost helpless family, and realizing that
the child’s father had it in his power to pro-
vide for her many comforts which she could
not, Susan's grandmother had sent word to
him that he might have the little one.
	Then it was that Rhoda, as the betrothed of t
Ebenezer Damon, soon to be his wife, had re-
ceived and taken charge of his motherless lit-
tle daughter as her own.
	Now that by the death of her father, the
child was left an orphan indeed, poor Rhoda
felt that for her sake, she would rally and try
to live on.
	And she did live on, day after day and year
after year; though, nothing, seemed to attract
her attention or to divert her thoughts that
did not in some way concern her little Susan—
the precious charge that had been left her by 
her lost lover.
	Five years thus passed away, every day
bringing forth some new tie of affection to
bind the little girl closer to the heart that felt
it would be but an empty shell without her.
	Then came the second great grief to that 
heart which had been already so cruelly
wrecked by fortune's faithless waves.
	Brighter days had dawned upon Susan’s
grandmother. She saw her way more clearly


opening, and came to Rhoda in her father's
home—where she still quietly remained as a
faithful widow—to claim again the bequest of
her dying daughter. Rhoda could not even
plead for the little one, now nine years old, to
remain with her. She knew “Aunt Brigham”
—as she always called her mother’s sister, the
grandmother of her little Susan—had the first
claim on the child. So she saw the one treas-
ure for which she had lived so entirely, borne
away without a murmur. But when it was
over, when the child had gone, a feeling of
such terrible loneliness, such unutterable an-
guish came over her being, that, sinking up-
on her bed she could only gasp for breath
and it seemed as though she could never
speak or stir or look up again.
	But in time, she out lived all her great sor-
rows, or learned to live above them. And to-
day she rejoices that she is in the midst of the
Latter-day Saints, that she heard and received
the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which she remarked
to us but a few evenings since, would likely
never have been, had not these trials fallen to
her lot. She says, although at the time they
were so hard to bear, they were but blessings
in disguise.
	This is why our heroine is still Miss Rhoda
Richards; and why for sixty-two years she has
never once spoken the words to any one, “I
wish you a Hapyy New Year!”
	Now, young ladies, pray do not condemn our
story as being without a moral. It teaches
several good lessons if, as young learners you
are inclined so to receive them.
	It shows that a whole life need not be dolor-
ous because dark shadows sometimes inter-
vene to obscure the sunlight. It also evinces
anew the well established fact, that for our own
good does the ever kind and beneficent Father
permit sorrows to come upon us. And as so
much is said against the bad influence of
“dime novels” and trashy literature, exercised
over the minds of the young who indulge in
such reading, we will point out to them a valu-
able hint which may be taken from "our
story.”
	Instead of seeking to satisfy the cravings of
your young, ardent natures for something
brighter, more lofty and soul stirring than you
find in the dull routine of every day life, by
stupidly conning over the vain imaginations
of some profuse author, look about you and
find heroes and heroines of your own. You
will discover them in those around you, if you
are bright; often the best and noblest in your
dearest friends or nearest relatives. Remem-
ber too, that, without seeking for it, you have
each a romance of your own to live, and pre-
pare to live it well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


The death of Ezra Cornell, which occured at
his home in Ithica, N. Y., recently, removes
one of the most generous patrons of education
in this country. Mr. Cornell was born in West-
chester, N. Y., in 1807, and was the efficient
coadjutor of Prof. Morse in the latter's early
efforts in the construction of Telegraph lines,
thereby making a good deal of money, which


profitable investments have since increased
many fold. He had been somewhat in politi-
cal life, having served in both branches of the
New York Legislature, but is best known, and
will be longest remembered, as the generous
patron of the University that bears his name,
to which he has given in all about one million
dollars. This institution, which admits young
women to equal privileges in instruction, will
be of inestimable value to American woman-
hood.


THE Philadelphia Press closes an article on
the meeting of Congress with the following
correct remarks: "There is one way in which
Congress can aid in restoring activity to in-
dustry and business. Public opinion at present
is undoubtedly in favor of those great improve-
ments which aid in the development of the re-
sources of the country, open new regions to
settlement, and give employment to thousands
of men in numerous branches of industry, thus
quickening the whole current of trade receiving
national aid. It is clearly a duty to assist
works of this character. Were the two great
enterprises which were arrested by the panic,
and which are now at a stand still, to be again
started, the effect would be immediately and
immensely favored."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE ANNUAL conference of the Weber stake
of Zion was held recently at Ogden.
	AMONG THE events of the Holidays
are recorded several cases of drunkenness,
theft, and other disturbances of a similar na-
ture which have transpired in this city. "It
was not always so," but, alas! it is to-day.
	THE OLD time honored custom of "Wish a
merry Christmas and a Happy New Year" has
been well considered by many of the "Well-to-
do" in this city this season, by suiting their ac-
tions, to the words, they have caused much re-
joicing among their less favored friends.
	PRESIDENT GRANT has nominated Samuel
B. Axtell, of California, for Governor of Utah;
the nomination has been confirmed, and George
A. Black is re-nominated and re-confirmed to
the Secretaryship. The people need not antici-
pate any worse governmental jurisdiction than
they have been accustomed to, we think; and
they may be favored with something bet-
ter.


[Column 1]
	NOT FEMALE, BUT WOMAN.

	More than two years ago, the question
of the propriety or impropriety of the use
of the word Female, in connection with the
name of the Relief Society was argued
here; and as it was decided to be, not only
unnecessary but also inappropriate, it was
unanimously dropped by the Relief Socie-
ties of this Territory.  That some intelli-
gent women in other localities hold corres-
ponding opinions, is shown by the follow-
ing which appeared in a late number of the
"Woman's Journal."--Ed. W. E.
	"I wish to avail myself of the first oppor-
tunity to protest, through your columns,
against the frequent and unpardonable use,
even among Suffragists, of the word "fe-
male," to designate Woman.
	All over the country we find schools for
young women, bearing the chartered names
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" prayer meetings and the like,
is a favorite example for the unlettered
boor, who talks sneeringly of the 

[Column 2]
"females,"
who wish to vote and make themselves
equal to men.
	Recently I was looking over a newspaper,
which advocates the temperance cause and
favors Woman Suffrage, and noticed an item
in reference to the lecture course of
the town where the paper is published.
The editor deprecated the fact that no "fe-
male" had a place among the lecturers, and
urged that Mrs. Livermore be employed.
	If the lecture course had been composed
soley of women, and the editor had spoken
of employing some "male," George William
Curtis for instance, it would have been con-
sidered a breech of good taste. But the old
harem idea of women, as mere human ani-
mals, has so long pervaded society, that com-
paratively few feel the impropriety of thus
designating women. "Early as it was, I
met several 'females' upon the street," says
a gentleman on returning from his morning
walk, and were it not for the firm establish-
ment of this unpardonable American vul-
garism, one might suppose that old brindle,
a few motherly hens, and the favorite
pussy, had been indulging in a morning
stroll.
	I have been surprised at the frequent use
of this word in the columns of so able a
paper as the Independent. During the past
season many excellent editorials were pre-
sented in favor of Woman Suffrage, but the
authors almost invariably wrote "female"
Suffrage. The highly cultivated Goldwin
Smith also uses the term, and it fully ac-
cords with his estimate of our sex. But
the contributors of the Independent and
Woman's Journal surely ought to set a bet-
ter example to the rest of the world.
	The Bible is a model in this respect, the
word female being seldom used, and then
when no other word could be used in its
place.
	Some men go to the other extreme, and
speak of all women as "ladies," which is
often exceedingly ludicrous. While visit-
ing the Ohio penitentiary, several years ago,
a college president said, as our party was
about leaving, after attending chapel ser-
vice where nearly a thousand men were
seated in convicts' uniform:
	"We haven't seen any of their ladies yet,
but I suppose there are some here.
	I promptly responded:
	"There are doubtless a few women who
are prisoners, certainly no ladies."
	Last spring a zealous temperance man in-
quired my opinion of the "lady movement."
I was puzzled to know what he meant till
he added something about the temperance
work, and then I remarked: "Oh! you mean
the Woman's Crusade."
	It is quite fashionable for a traveler to
register himself and wife as "Mr. John
Smith and lady;" but "Mr. and Mrs. John
Smith" is certainly preferable in every re-
spect. In some parts of the country it seems
to be customary for a man to introduce his
wife as "my lady;" but how much more
sensible to say "my wife" or "Mrs. So and
so," which gives no opportunity for mis-
construction.
	While there are many occasions where it
seems more appropriate and polite to say
"lady" instead of "woman," yet the ten-
dency of the age is to make the latter more
popular.  At all events the term "female,"
so generally applied to the members of our
sex, should be regarded by all persons of
culture and refinement as an unpardonable
vulgarism.		JANE O. DEFOREST.
	Norwalk, Ohio.


"A SPLENDID ear but a very poor voice,"
as the organ-grinder said of the donkey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WINTER WHEAT.

The grain was sown on the far hillside,
	And the autumn sun looked kindly down,
Blessing the sower and blessing the grain,
	And blessing the earth rich and brown.
And Robbie said, "In the mold below,
God is making the grain to grow."

The leaves grew bright on the forest trees,
	And turned to the mother's breast again,
And a mist came out of the clear, far skies,
	Clothing with silver the field of grain.
But Robbie trusted, "The frost below,
God is making the grain to grow."

The wind came whistling out of the North,
	And froze the earth like a solid wall,
While winter, waving his crystal wand,
	Commanded the white-winged snows to fall.
Then Robbie doubted, "Under the snow,
How can He make the grain to grow?"

The robins piped in the forest trees,
	The small stream fretted its banks between,
And springtime airs, and sunshine played,
	Over the hillside fresh and green.
And Robbie shouted, "The brook's aflow,
And God is making the grain to grow!"

Thus sowing in faith of the better time,
	We smile at the sunshine and the rain,
But shrink and tremble when storms are loud,
	And count our sowing as all in vain.
Ah, doubting hearts, while ye beat so low,
God is making the grain to grow.
		LUCY L. STOUT, in "Woman's Journal."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Benzine and common clay will clean marble.
	Castor oil is an excellent thing to soften leath-
er.
	Lemon Jelly.—Two cups of sugar; yolks of
three eggs; juice of two lemons. Cook till thick
ened by setting in boiling water, then add the well-
beaten whites of three eggs; spread between the
layers of the cake, and trim off the rough edges.
	Wafer.—One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of
butter, a pinch of salt; mix with milk into a dough,
then roll out in very thin circles. Bake in pans,
quickly. One quart of flour makes twenty-five 
wafers.
	Dandruff.—some one asks, what will remove
and prevent dandruff from coming in a lady's head?
Take a little borax added to a pint of rain water,
and wash the head occasionally with it. Add a 
little borax or cooking soda to rain water when
you wash your hair brushes. It cleanses them
nicely.
	An excellent cement, we read, may be made
from rice flour. It is only necessary to mix the
rice flour intimately with cold water and gently
simmer it over a fire, when it readily forms a deli-
cate and durable cement. When made of the con-
sistency of plaster, clay models, busts, bas relievos,
etc., may be formed from it.
	Paste that will Stick.—Take 4 pounds of fine
wheat flour and make a batter with cold water;
take out all lumps, then add boiling water till you
have almost a pailful. This is a good paper-
hanger's paste. To make it stick to painted walls,
add 1 ounce of finely pulverized resin for each gal-
lon of paste, and boil it; when too thick, add more
water.
	Sugar for Preserving.—Good brown sugar is the
sweetest, especially much sweeter than the so-
called granulated white sugar which contains much
water of crystalization; often a certain amount of
free moisture of brown sugar is due to syrup of
molasses more than water. The finely pow-
dered white sugar made from loaf sugar, is much
sweeter than the granulated white sugar, and goes
almost as far in sweetening as the brown qualities
do. Loaf sugar is the best.
	Erasive Soap.—Here is an excellent recipe for
making genuine crasive soap that will remove
grease and stain from clothing: Two pounds of 
good Castile soap, half a pound of carbonate of


potash, disolved in half a pint of hot water.
Cut the soap with the potash until it is thick
enough to mould in cakes; also add alcohol, half
an ounce; camphor, half an ounce, hartshorn, half an
ounce; color with half an ounce of pulverized 
charcoal.
	Excellent Glue.—A foreign chemist asserts that
an excellent glue may be prepared as follows:—
Four parts, by weight, of glue are soaked for sev-
eral hours in fifteen parts of water, and then slowly
warmed until a perfectly clear solution is formed.
This solution is then diluted with sixty-five parts
of boiling water, and thoroughly stirred. In the
meantime thirty parts of starch are stirred into
200 parts of cold water, so as to form a thin, milky
liquid, free from lumps. Into this is poured the
solution of glue, stirring continually and heating.
When cold, ten drops of carbolic acid are added.
The paste made in this way is said to possess ex-
traordinary adhesive power, joining leather, paper,
pasteboard, &c. By keeping it in closed vessels,
so that the water cannot evaporate, it may be pre-
served for years. Where no great strength is de-
sired, ordinary flour or starch paste is used, a little
carbolic acid being added to prevent souring.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	To Cure Chilbains.—Pour boiling wa-
ter over one pint of wood ashes; when cool
enough immerse the feet; let them remain
about half an hour.—Household.
	Remedy for Scarlet Fever.—Take an
onion and cut it in half; cut out a portion of
the center, and into the cavity put a spoon-
ful of saffron; put the pieces together, then
wrap them up in a cloth and bake them in
an oven until the onion is cooked so that the
juice will run freely; squeeze out all the
juice, and give the patient a teaspoonful, at
the same time rubbing the chest and throat
with goose grease or rancid bacon, if there
is any cough or soreness in the throat. In a
short time the fever will break out in an
eruption all over the body. All that is nec-
essary is to keep the patient warm and pro-
tected from draughts, and the recovery is
said to be certain.
	ALCOHOL AS A REMEDY FOR BURNS.--
Alcohol, recommended by Sydenham, has
lately been employed by Leviseur, particu-
larly with children, as the most rapid and
effective means of alleviating the pain of
burns. The affected part is either simply
covered loosely with an alcoholic compress,
or is bathed with alcohol, when the pain in-
stantly disappears, but returns when the ap-
plication ceases. It must, therefore, be con-
tinued for from one to two hours, and then
be repeated at longer intervals, until the
reddened epidermis is bleached and shriv-
elled, or until any blisters that may have
formed have opened and discharged, which
will take place in from six to twelve hours.
Care should be taken, especially where the
surface to be treated is large, that the vapor
of the alcohol does not affect the patient.
	FOR BOILS—A SURE CURE.—Dr. Simon, a
physician of Loraine, states that, as soon as
the culminating point of a boil makes its ap-
pearance, he puts in a saucer a thimbleful of
camphorated alcohol, and, dipping the ends
of his middle fingers into the liquid, rubs
the enflamed surface, especially the middle
portion, repeating the operation eight or ten
times, continuing the rubbing at each time
for about half a minute. He then allows
the surface to dry, placing a slight coating of
camphorated olive oil over the affected sur-
face. He states that one such application in
almost all such cases causes boils to dry up
and disappear. The application should be
made at morning, noon, and in the evening
[Column 2]
He avers that the same treatment will cure
witlows, and all injuries of tips of fingers.
As soon as pain and redness appear, the fin-
ger should be soaked for ten minutes in
camphorated sweet oil. The relief is said to
be immediate, and three applications are 
generally enough to effect a cure.
	REMEDY FOR POISON BY IVY.—It seems
to me that I read all kinds of cures for ivy
poison except the right one. I have always
endeavored to keep it before the public, but
have failed. It is to take sugar of lead (a
bit the size of a hazelnut,) in half a teacup of
sweet milk or warm water. Apply as warm
as can be borne easily with a soft, linty piece
of linen rag. Three or four applications are
sufficient to affect a cure. If the poison is
on the face and nearing the eyes or mouth,
this astringent wash may be constantly ap-
plied.
	It is a marvellous cure, and by watching
closely one can see the fevered blisters turn
from white to yellow during the application.
This remedy for ivy should prevent a great
deal of suffering. It is well where a mem-
ber of a family is easily poisoned to keep su-
gar of lead in the house all the time. Let it
be labelled and kept where it can be found
the moment it is wanted. Keep it well
wrapped up that it may not lose its strength.
—Cor. Ohio Farmer.


GREATNESS AND GOODNESS.

	Take goodness, with the average intel-
lectual power, and compare it with the
mere greatness of intellect and social stand-
ing, and it is far the nobler quality; and if
God should offer me one of them, I would
not hesitate which to choose. No, the great-
est intellect which God ever bestowed I
would not touch, were I bid to choose be-
tween that and the goodness of an average
woman; I would scorn it and say: Give it
to Lucifer; give me the better gift, When
I say goodness is greater than greatness, I
mean to say it gives a deeper and serener
joy in the private heart, joins men more
tenderly to one another and more earnestly
to God.  I honor intellect, reason and un-
derstanding; I wish we took ten times
more pains to cultivate them than we do. I
honor greatness of mind—great reason,
which intuitively sees truths, great laws,
and the like; great understanding, which
learns special laws and works in details; the
understanding that masters things for use
and beauty; that can marshal millions of
men into an organization that shall last for
centuries. I bow reverently before the
men of genius and sit gladly at their feet.
But the man who sees justice and does it,
who knows love and loves it, who has a great
faith and trusts in God, let him have a mind
quite inferior and culture quite a little, I
must yet honor and reverence that man far
more than he who has the greatest power
of intellect. I know that knowledge is
power, and reverence it; but justice is a
higher power, and love is a manlier power,
and religion is a diviner power; each great-
er than the migtiest mind.—Theodore  Par-
ker.


To be truly noble is not so hard as many
may imagine. It does not require the ac-
complishment of some great act, the win-
ning of world-wide fame or even a fierce
struggle with some huge monster. It is
but to love virtue and the truth and to keep
them as constant companions. The soul
thus governed is noble and god-like though
known but to God; and nothing else can
make it so, though the whole world should
speak its applause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.

	IF the Mormon women read the EXPO-
NENT and live up to its moral and intellect-
ual teachings, they will never discredit the
political rights they enjoy.—"Stockton
Leader."
	THE quaintest thing of late in baby-talk
—a little girl seeing a dog scratching to be
let in at an opposite door promptly knocked
at the window and called out: "Ing e bell,
doggy; ing e bell."
	HOW often are you irresistibly drawn to-
ward a plain, unassuming woman, whose
soft tongue renders her attractive. In the so-
cial circle how pleasant it is to hear a woman
talk in that low key that always character-
izes a true lady. In the sanctuary of home
how such a voice soothes the fretful child
and cheers the weary husband.—Lamb.
	THERE is a dog belonging to a Concord
(N.H.) fire company which always takes it
upon herself to spread a fire alarm, and 
makes a great ado about it. When a fire
broke out in the village, a few days ago,
she rushed to a sleeping fireman and waked
him by seizing him by the throat. She then
went to the house of another fireman, and,
having called him out by her loud barking,
fastened upon his clothes and tried to have
him expedite his movements.
	A CYNICAL essayist remarks as one of the
oddist points of difference between man
and woman, that woman has no first love.
The long alphabet of her affections is with-
out any distinct end or beginning. She
mounts her insensible graduation from dolls
and kittens and brothers to the zenith of 
passion, to descend by the insensible gradu-
ations from the zenith of passion, through
pet brothers and tabby cats. There is no
such event as a first kiss forms in a boy's
life to mark for woman the transition from
girl-hood to the sudden maturity of passion;
she has been kissing and purring and fond-
ling and petting from her cradle. And she
will pet and fondle and purr and kiss to her
grave.
	A BONE FOR BABY.—Almost every one
who ever had a bright dog can tell curious
stories about dog behavior. A gentleman
in Erie, Pa., furnishes the "Observer" with 
this funny anecdote: Mrs. J. has for some
time past been the owner of a fine Esqui-
maux dog. A few weeks ago Mrs. J. be-
came the mother of a beautiful little girl, of
whom the dog at first sight was very jeal-
ous. His better nature however, soon as-
serted itself, and he became very fond of
the child. A few months ago baby was cry-
ing loud and long. Doggicame up stairs and
in evident distress of spirits, whined in an-
swer to the childs cry; but, finally, as if a
sudden thought had startled him, trotted
down stairs. He presently returned with a
bone, well picked of course, in his mouth,
which, standing on his hind legs he gravely
presented to the baby.
	BOIL IT DOWN.—Blessed is the writer who
can boil it down. The man who knows so 
well what he wants to say that he can come
to it in a few short picturesque sentences,
is the readable and quotable journalist of
these days. People cannot wait with the
patience they used to have, to get at the
pith of things. The railroad has educated 
them out of all patience with slowness.
The telegraph has completed that education,
and at the same time incapaciated them for
the endurance of words. When we have
to pay a fixed price—so many cents for a
word—for every word we employ to express

[Column 2]
our meaning, we are apt to husk the sen-
tence down to the kernel, and to value the
art of expressing a thought with the husks
off. We want the naked idea. Words are
nothing. Language would be abolished if
there were anything briefer to take its place.
But, since it can not be abolished, boil it
down.


WOMAN'S RECORD
	Mrs. E. B. C. Washburn has given $100
to the Maine Industrial School for girls.

	MISS Harriet Hosmer is making at her
own expense a statue of "Emancipation"
for Fairmount Park.

	MRS. A. J. Dunniway of Portland, Oregon,
has recently given a successful course of lec-
tures in Walla Walla, Washington Terri-
tory.

	MADAME Theirs, who is over seventy
years old, is said to wear jaunty little hats
that would be youthful for a woman of
thirty.

	MMR. Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, and her
husband, will permanently reside in Weis-
baden, having accepted the posts of leading
professors at the Rhenish Academy of Mu-
sic.

	"IDA and Gabrielle, the Greeley sisters,
occasionally make their appearance in public
this season, for the first time since the death
of their illustrious father nearly two years
ago.

	MISS McHenry, of St. Stephen's Church,
Philadelphia, sets a noble example to women
who wish to be of real use in the world.
She has raised $200,000 for three church
homes, which care for 600 children.

	MISS Laura White, the famous mathema-
tician, who solved the problem so long in-
soluble by students, is now studying archi-
tecture and art. She graduated from Michi-
gan University, last summer, with high
honors.

	AN Exchange says: Mrs. President Grant
has been approached by the Woman's Suf-
frage Association, Woman's Congress, Wo-
man's Dress Reform Society, etc., again, and
her answer is: "I am very domestic myself
and have no inclination to change my mode
of living. I was a favored daughter, and
am an indulged wife. Mr. Grant says I have
my rights and his too!"

	ADELINE Cooper has assumed a self-im-
posed mission in Westminister, England.
Her problem is now to reclaim the intem-
perate. Her schemes to win men from
drink, her trouble in getting up a temper-
ance club, her labors among a humble class
of costermongers, her institution of a penny-
bank, her exertions in establishing a model
lodging-house, all testitfy to her philanthro-
py.

	PATTI, now known as Madame Caux,
gives freely where she takes a fancy. She
allows one young American girl $600 a year
to pursue her musical studies. She and her
husband live very happily together. The
marquis goes to the opera every night when
she sings, sits down in a retired corner, and
never takes his lorgnette off his wife while
she is on the stage. If there is anything in
her singing or acting which does not please
him, he tells her so when he goes behind
the scenes, and she does better next time.
She knows very well that what her marquis
tells her is for her good, while a critic might
suggest or cavil out of some unfriendly
feeling.


﻿DRAWING IN SCHOOLS.

	No one branch of study pursued in our
schools has greater claims than drawing as
far as the development of the faculties are
concerned, and no other one enters so
largely into all the practical concerns of life.
Among the many important reasons why
drawing should be introduced into all our
schools, we would enumerate the follow-
ing.
	First. It developes the powers of obser-
vation and trains the eye and hand. To
draw either from patterns or from Nature
requires accurate observation, and habits
are formed that lead to the careful exami-
nation of all objects, and to the perfect obe-
dience of the hand to the mandates of the
will. Drawing also largely tends to the de
velopment of the judgment concerning the
relations of objects; and it can be made an
important instrument in the development
and control of the imagination.
	Second. Through drawing, a great inter-
est in study may be excited. Little chil-
dren are always pleased with representing
the rude outlines of familiar objects, and
children of larger growth with more per-
fect work. The severest studies of the
school-room may be relieved by drawing
exercises, without in any way arresting the
process of continuous mental development.
Drawing also may be made a recreation
which will supersede those of a doubtful
moral character.


SELFISHNESS.—Live for some purpose in
the world. Always act your part well.
Conduct yourself so you shall be missed
with sorrow when you are gone. Multi-
tudes of our species are living in such a 
manner that they are not likely to be re-
membered after their disapperarance. They
leave behind them scarcely any traces of
their existence, and are forgotton almost as
though they had never been. They are,
while they live, like some pebble lying un-
observed among a million on the shore; and
when they die they are like the same peb-
ble cast into the sea, which just ruffles t
surface, sinks, and is forgotten, without be-
ing missed from the beach. They are nei-
ther regretted by the rich, wanted by the
poor, nor celebrated by the learned. Who
has been the better for their life? Whose
tears have they dried up? Whose wants
supplied?  Whose misery have they
healed? Who would unbar the gate of life
to readmit them to existence? What face
would greet them back again to our world
with a smile? Wretched unproductive
mode of existence! Selfishness is its own
curse; it is a starving vice. The man who
does no good gets none. He is like the
heath in the desert, neither yielding fruit
nor seeing when good cometh, a stunted,
dwarfish, miserable shrub.


To wipe all tears from off all faces is a
task too hard for mortals; but to alleviate
misfortunes is within the most limited pow-
er.
	A WEST Newbury (Mass.) farmer before
beginning to pick his apples went to George-
town and bought 250 barrels, thinking that
200 would contain his apples and fifty his
crop of onions. He went at his trees and
filled all his barrels with apples, bought an-
other hundred in Georgetown and filled
them, bought another hundred in Newbury-
port and filled them, and recently he was in
town to buy a hundred barrels more. He
told a friend that where he expected three
barrels on a tree he picked nearly seven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	WOMEN do not talk more than men; they
are listened to more, that's all.
	IT is impossible to have the last word with
a chemist, because he always has a "retort."
	WE are told nothing was made in vain;
but how about a fashionable girl? Isn't she
maiden vain.
	WHEN were there only three vowels in
the alphabet? Before you and I were
thought of.
	SOME of the people of Leavenworth, Kan-
sas, are so lazy that they write the name o
the place, "11 worth"
	ONE of the old settlers of the Isles of
Shoals seeing the name of Psyche on the
hull of a yacht the other day, spelled it out
slowly, and then exclaimed, "Well, if that
ain't the durndest way to spell fish!"
	SENTIMENTAL arithmetic calculates thus:
Two glances make one look; two looks make
one sigh; four sighs make one waltz; three
waltzes make one palpitation; two palpita-
tions make one call; two calls make one at-
tention; two attentions make one fool (some-
times two); two fools make one flirtation;
one flirtation plus two bouquets equal to one
engagement, equal to one marriage.
	WHEN Mr. Wilberforce, the great anti-
slavery advocate, was once a candidate for
Parliamentary honors, his sister, an amiable
and witty young lady, offered the compli-
ment of a new gown to each of the wives of
those freeman who voted for her brother, on
which she was saluted with the cry of "Miss
Wilberforce forever!" when she pleasantly
observed, "I thank you, gentlemen, but I
cannot agree with you, for I really do not
wish to be Miss Wilberforce forever."
	A MINISTER was once preaching about
heaven, and, to show the absurdity of Swed-
enborg's ideas, drew a graphic picture of
the Swedengorgian heaven, with its beauti-
ful fields, fine horses, cows and pretty wo-
men, when, in the midst of his glowing de-
scription, one of the sisters went into rap-
tures, and shouted, "Glory, glory, glory!"
This so disconcerted the preacher that he
paused, when an elder cried out to the
shouter: "Hold on there, sister! you're
shouting over the wrong heaven!"
	IN Cooperstown they tell a story of an
English joker who once visited Fenimore
Cooper. One day, while Mr. Cooper was
dining with the Englishman, he poured out
some native wine—wine from grapes raised
in his own garden. Taking up a glass, and
looking through it with pride, Cooper re-
marked: Now Mr. Stebbens, I call this good,
honest wine. Yes, Mr. Cooper, I agree with
you. It is honest wine—poor but honest.
Mr. Cooper went on telling his "Injun" sto-
ries.
	SEVERAL years ago, when Miss Anna
Dickinson was about to lecture in a Western
town, the gentleman who was to introduce
her to the audience asked what was her sub-
ject, and she replied, "Jeanne d'Arc." He
rose with great gravity and remarked, "La-
dies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of
presenting to you Miss Anna Dickinson,
who will be remembered as the ardent friend
of the late lamented Lincoln, and who will
instruct you this evening in regard to that
other illustrious man and noble patriot, John
Dark."
	"LANDLORD," said a transient guest at a
cross-road tavern, as he drew near the end
of his dinner, "won't you give me a little

[Column 2]
more pork to eat with this potato?" A lit-
tle later he said: "There was more pork
than I wanted; let me trouble you for a little
more poptato to eat with the pork." A short
time after: "Well, I declare, I've got some
more potato left, and it seems a pity to
leave it—just a small piece of pork, if you
please." It ran on so for some time. At
length the landlord stopped short in front of
his guest and remarked: "Look here, stran-
ger, 'tain't no use. I'm willing to do any-
thing in reason to make that pork and pota-
to come out even, but I've made up my
mind, the way you eat, it can't be did.
You're bound to lap over one or the other
every time. Now, just make up your mind
which you'd rather leave, and leave it and
quit. I've got enough pork and potatoes,
but if you keep on you'll burst."


FLOWERS.
	WHAT you keep by you, you can change
or mend, but words once spoken you can
never recall.
	HOW many troubles might mankind be
spared if they would only stop to hear each
others explanations.
	THE discovery of what is true, and the
practice of what is good are the two most
important objects of life.
	MAN isnaturally fond of activity, yet he
has persuaded himself that he loves noth-
ing so much as taking his ease.
	HE who studies for a good purpose, to
him his study becomes a blessing; to him
who does not, it grows a poison.
	WHEN we see a young man who spends
all he earns we are inclined to suspect that
he does not earn all he spends.
	HE who goes too near sin to-day, may fall
into it to-morrow. Prudence will not al-
ways venture to the brink of innocence.
	SEARCH thine own heart! Within thee
there is a fountain of good, which will al-
ways flow, provided thou diggest for it.
	It is impossible for any of us to please
every one. But if we were all inclined to
make as much sunshine for each other as
the kind and beneficent Father has given
us all power to do, there need be no dark-
ness of long duration in any heart.


Lewenboeck tells us of an insect seen
with the microscope, of which twenty-sev-
en millions only equal a mite. Insects of
various kinds may be seen in the cavities
of a grain of sand. Mold is a forest of beau-
tiful trees, with the branches, leaves and
fruit. Butterflies are fully feathered.
Hairs are hollow tubes. The surface of our
body is covered with scales like a fish; a
single grain of sand would cover one hun-
dred and fifty of these scales and yet a scale
covers five hundred pores. Through these
narrow openings the sweat forces itself, like
water through a seive. The mites make
five hundred steps a second. Each drop of
stagnant water contains a world of animated
beings, swimming with as much liberty as
whales in the sea. Each leaf has a colony
of insects grazing on it like cows in a mea-
dow.


It is estimated that the French Governm-
ment loses $60,000 a year for its revenue in
one department by the second use of stamp-
ed paper, from which the writing made
when the stamped paper was bought is wash-
ed by chemical processes. It has now bought
the secret of an indelible ink.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,

				GO TO

			MRS. C. E. DYE'S
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES, MISSES’ & CHILDREN’S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.
_________________________________________
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
					—
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
					—
			Large Assortment of
	CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
					—
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
					—
				H.E. PHELPS, 
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
____________________________________________
				H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
			Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St.to his three
				storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
________________________________________________
H. WALLACE
					—
	Has the best, large-t and purest stock of confec-
					—
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
_________________________________________________
				CLUB RATES.
	Deternined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names scnt in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
screber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.				

