VOL. 3. 			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1874.			NO. 7.﻿


ABOUT A UTAH LADY.

	Recently we had the pleasure of per-
using an account of a lady of this place—
the wife of a prominent citizen—which ap-
peared in the "New Mexico Advertiser,"
published at Las Vegas, New Mexico.
Thinking it will be of interest to many we
insert it. "Mrs. Emiline Kesler, one of the
wives of the Mormon Bishop Kesler of
Utah, after a stay of about six months in
several parts of this Territory investigating
thoroughly our social condition, etc., stop-
ped a few days in our city and starts this
afternoon or to-morrow for Salt Lake City,
via Pueblo. She was one of the pilgrims in
the great exodus from Navoo, Illinois, to the
New Jerusalem of the Utah Valley, and,
though then the mother of several children
she possesses still a fresh complexion, re-
markable physical vigor and intellectual
energy, which speaks more in behalf of the
much misrepresented and abused Mormons
than whole volumes could say.
	The short hour passed in earnest conver-
sation with said lady has afforded us a real
intellectual treat.
	Among many other sober observations,
Mrs. Kesler remarked that: If all the faults
of both the Mormon and Gentile schemes
should be shown in parallel lines, Mormon-
ism (with all its defects) would, by far carry
out the victory. For in Mormonism every
woman may have a husband and protector
if she wishes; while in Gentiledom not even
one third of the females can obtain a legal
husband in matrimony: the only way in
which woman can be crowned with the
brightest Diadem on earth; maternity. And
she adds: It is self-evident truth that it is
more honorable for a woman to be a second
or third wife of an honest and healthy man
by whom she may have several legitimate
children than to be the first concubine of a
gentleman(?) who can only give her bas-
tards or be every body's harlot for the con-
sideration of a few pennies as it happens
in Gentledom where owing to the so-called
Christian civilization and abnormal social
condition more than two thirds of the wo-
men see themselves obliged to pass a sad
life.
	Mrs. Kesler has been several times at the
polls, casting her vote for the rulers of Utah,
a fact that shows the freedom and respect
which the females of Utah enjoy. Wishing
her a pleasant trip, we leave to the wisdom
of our readers any comments on these sad
facts and naked truths."


A corespondent of the San Jose "Mercury"
asks the editor to explain why  woman is
carved in stone to represent Union, Elo-
quence, Fame and Truth, to ornament our
State Capitol—allowed no share in the Na-
tional speech-making yet represent Elo-
quence; should avoid publicty, yet represent
Fame; may not speak from the pulpit, yet
made the emblem of Truth?


MISS Francis Wrinkle of Lee, Mass., has
taken the prize of $10, awarded to the High
School students for the best composition on
Temperance, by the State Total Abstinence
Society.


THE SEX.

	MISS Emma Albani, the Albany prima
donna, is having an extraordinary success at
Covent Garden Opera, in Thomas's "Mig-
non."
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed $1,
000 to the City of Salem, Mass., the inter-
est to be devoted to the poor every Thanks-
giving Day.
	MISS Emily Addis Fawcett has received
the medal of the London Society for the En-
couragement of Arts, Manufactures and
Commerce, for the best specimen of shell-
cameo cutting.
	MRS. C. E. Turner, of Ames, Iowa, has
been appointed to the chief management of
the editorial department of Dr. Sprague's
"Western Farm Journal," and has entered
upon the discharge of her duties.
	MRS. Martha Magee, 35 years old, of Gyn-
thiana County, Ky., owns 400 acres of land
in the blue grass region, and raises cattle
and takes them to market like other drovers.
She is a smart woman, and is respected by
the other drovers.
	LADY Amberley, who died a few weeks
since at her home in England, is well re-
membered in New York for her intelligence,
vivacity, and the deep interest she took in
every enterprise that could elevate the so-
cial condition or promote the interests of
women.
	MRS. J. B. Walker, of New Orleans, has
ready for publication a volume in memory 
of Captain Joseph Fry, commander of the 
ill-starred Virginius. The book is to be
published and sold exclusively for the bene-
fit of his destitute widow and seven chil-
dren.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
president of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the 
board of instruction in the college.
	IT is a good thing for women to be able
to swim. Example: A few weeks ago, in
England, two boys went to bathe near King's
Cross, from a boat near shore. One got
beyond his depth, and would certainly have
been drowned, had not the cries of his com-
panions brought Miss Eliza Shaw, an excel-
lent swimmer, to the water, who instantly
plunged in, as she was, and caught the boy
just as he was sinking.


YOUTHFUL EXPERIENCE.

	The celebrated Prof. Tindal, in speaking
of his own life, says:—Not as a servant of
Mammon do I ask you to take science to
your hearts, but as the strengthener and
enlightener of the mind of man. Might I
now address a word or two to those who in
the ardor of youth feel themselves drawn
towards science as a vocation. They must,
if possible, increase their facility to origi-
nal research, prizing far more than the
possession of wealth an honorable standing
in science. They must, I think, be prepared
at times to suffer a little for scientific
righteousness, not refusing, should occasion
demand it, to live low and lie hard to achive
the object of their lives. I do not here
urge anything upon others that I should
have been unwilling to do myself when
young. Let me give you a line of personal
history. In 1848, wishing to improve my-
self in science, I went to the university of
Marburg—the same old town in which my
great namesake, when even poorer than
myself, published his transaction of the
Bible. I lodged in the plainest manner, in
a street which, perhaps, bore a appropriate
name while I dwelt upon it. It was called
the Ketzerbach—the heretic’s brook—from
a little historic rivulet runing through it.
I wished to keep myself clean and hardy;
so I purchased a cask and had it cut in two
by a carpenter. Half that cask, filled with
spring water over night, was placed in my
small bed-room, and never during the years
that I spent there, in winter or in summer,
had the clock of the beautiful Elizabether-
kirche, which was close at hand, finished
striking the hour of 6 in the morning be-
fore I was in my tub. For a good portion
of the time I rose an hour and a half earlier
than this, working by lamplight at the dif-
ferential calculus when the world was slum-
bering around me. And I risked this breach
in my pursuits and this expenditure of
time and money, not because I had any defi-
nite prospect of material profit in view, but
because I thought the cultivation of the
intellect important—because, moreover,
I loved my work, and entertained the
sure and certain hope that armed with
knowledge, one can successfully fight one's
way through the world. It is with the
view of giving others the chance that I
then enjoyed that I propose to devote the
surplus of the money which you have so
generously poured in upon me. In the edu-
cation of the young philosophers in Ger-
many, I ought not, for their sake to omit one
additional motive by which I was upheld at
the time here referred to—that was a sense
of duty. Every young man of high aims
must, I think, have a spice of this principle
within him. There are sure to be hours in
his life when his outlook will be dark, his
work difficult, and his intellectual future
uncertain. Over such periods, when the
stimulous of success is absent, he must be
carried by his sense of duty. It may
not be so quick an incentive to glory, but
is a nobler one, and gives a tone to the char-
acter that glory cannot impart. That un-
flinching devotion to work, without which
no real eminence in science is now attaina-
ble, implies the writing at certain times of
the stern resolve upon the students charac-
ter. "I work, not because I like to work,
but because I ought to work." In science,
however, hope and duty are sure to be ren-
dered identical in the end.


"LOVE," says an amorous writer, "is an
internal transport" The same might be
said of a canal boat.
	"I HOPE your honor is not hurt" said a
passer-by to Judge G., who had fallen upon
a slippery side-walk. "No," said the Judge,
sternly, my honor is not hurt, but my head
is."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BE A WOMAN.

		   SELECTED.

Oft I've heard a gentle mother,
	As the twilight hours began,
Pleading with a son on duty,
	Urging him to be a man.
But unto the blue-eyed daughter,
	Though with love's words quite as ready
Points she out the other duty—
	"Strive, my dear, to be a lady."

What's a lady? Is it something
	Made of hoops, and silks, and airs,
Used to decorate the parlor,
	Like the fancy rugs and chairs?
Is it one that wastes on novels
	Every feeling that is human?
If 'tis this to be a lady,
	'Tis not this to be a woman.

Mother, then, unto your daughter,
	Speak of something higher far,
Than to be mere fashion's lady—
	"Woman" is the brightest star.
If you, in your strong affection,
	Urge your son to be a man,
Urge your daughter no less strongly—
	To arise and be a woman.

Yes, a woman! brightest model
	Of that high and perfect beauty,
Where the mind and soul and body
	Blend to work out life's great duty.
Be a woman! naught is higher
	On the gilded crest of fame:
On the catalogue of vlitue,
	There's no brighter, holier name.

Be a woman! on to duty!
	Raise the world from all that's low,
Place high in the social heaven
	Virtue's fair and radiant bow.
Lend thy influence to each effort
	That shall raise our nature human,
Be not fashion's gilded lady—
	Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman


R.S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Associations of Salt
Lake City, held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, August 29th, 1874.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Arise my
soul arise." Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young. Singing, "Glorious things
are sung of Zion."
	It was moved and seconded that Mrs.
Maggie M. Groo act as Secretary of the
meeting.
	The following Wards were represented:
the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th and 19th. The minutes of
the Junior Associations of the 8th and 11th
Wards were read.
	Remarks by President Mrs. M. I. Horne:
—If there is one thing I like more than an-
other, it is to see you young ladies stepping
forward and striving to do your duty. To
me it is a cheering sight. If you seek for
the Spirit of God you will be enabled to
speak such things as will be beneficial to one
another. The ideas that are advanced by
you young ladies are excellent; continue in
the way you are going and when you be-
come aged you can look back upon your for-
mer days with pleasure. We ought to feel
thankful that we are living in the days when
there are prophets and apostles, and appre-
ciate the blessings which God has bestowed
upon us. One should not depend upon an-
other, but each should know for herself that
this is the Kingdom of God. By the still
small voice of the Holy Spirit you can know,
and by asking of God your Heavenly Father.
I hope you will all fit and qualify yourselves
to fill responsible positions, and that your
lives will be such as will be worthy of imi-
tation. After many other good remarks she
said, "May God bless you is my prayer in
the name of Jesus."
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said:—I can
truly say that I am gratified with what I
see before me. If there should be another
meeting of this kind, we want each Ward
Association to bring the minutes of one
meeting. The young ladies of Ogden rep-
resent a large assembly and we thought that
if the Young Ladies' Associations of this city
could be brought together, there would be as
many as those who met in Ogden. Sister
Horne has been speaking about your filling
the positions that we are now filling: You
will have to fill greater positions as you have
greater privileges and blessings than we
had when we were young. When I was
young and attended Sunday school and re-
peated passages of Scripture concerning
Christ and his apostles, and the miracles
they performed, I used to wish that I had
lived in those days, and thought those who
lived then were greatly blessed. Do we
appreciate the blessings we have in these
days when there are prophets and apostles?
True, we do not have Jesus in person, but
we have his spirit. Does each one of you
know that this gospel is true? Your pa-
rents know by testimonies which they have
received, and it is your privilege, each one
of you, to know that this work is true but
you must seek for the knowledge if you
would obtain it. It is the privilege of each
young lady here before me to become a
queen in heaven. This is the design of our
Heavenly Father; but you cannot attain to
this without preparing yourselves for it by
keeping the commandments of God, and
serving Him with your whole hearts. To
live your religion, will not deprive you of
any true enjoyment. Our aim in exhorting
you to be truly Saints, is to increase your
happiness—to guide you to that which is
higher, nobler and purer than all earthly
things can possibly impart—that which the
Spirit of God alone can bestow. In the
minutes of your meetings are many testi-
monies from those who know that this is the
Kingdom of God. Let me exhort you, my
young sisters, to be energetic in attendance
of your meetings. You cannot attach too
much importance to them. After other in-
structions, Miss Snow blest the young ladies,
and was followed by
	Mrs. Z. D. Young, who said that it
takes a good deal of moral courage at
present, with all the variety of influ-
ences in our midst, for the young to live the
religion of the Gospel. She cited the atten-
tion of the young sisters to the position of
Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden and
said it was their privilege, hereafter to stand
in the same position as Eve, at the head of
a world; and exhorted them to prepare them-
selves for all that is in store for the faithful.
She said: Sister Snow is willing to render
you all the assistance she can; it does not
diminish her stock of knowledge but in-
creases yours. You should keep a diary,
and pen down what occurs of interest each
day, also write your thoughts so that when
you write a letter you can write it readily
without hesitation. You should never be
afraid to ask whether you are right or
wrong; go to your mothers with your trou-
bles and ask their advice. I ask God to
bless you.
	Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball said:—I
feel to ask an interest in your faith and
prayers that I may be able to speak to you.
Sister Snow said she had been anxious for
the welfare of the young for the last four
years but to my certain knowledge she has
been anxious for a great number of years.
It would be very beneficial to hear you young
ladies speak but you will another day.  The
majority of the young ladies are not here
to-day. I ask God to bless you.
	Coun. Mrs. E. Howard made interesting
remarks, with words of wise counsel, en-
treating the young sisters to put in practice
what they had heard, etc.
	Counselor E. R. Snow said that if it would
be agreeable there would be another meet-
ing of the same kind four weeks from to-
day; and that Mrs. E. Barney proposed to
teach a class of young ladies in reading.
	Mrs. Barney made some excellent remarks.
Mrs. W. East bore her testimony to what
had been said. It was moved and unani-
mously carried that the proposed meeting
take place. Meeting then adjourned for
four weeks. Singing, "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. W. East.

	RICHMOND, CACHE Co., Aug. 19th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of this place are very
much interested in our Retrenchment As-
sociation and already begin to realize
something of the importance of meeting
together to exchange ideas, thereby improv-
ing their own. In our tenth meeting, held
Aug. 12th, we had an excellent time; Sisters
Mary Freeze and Clara Conrad, of Salt Lake
City, being present. After singing and
prayer, Pres. Miss Mary Stewart read an or-
iginal essay on "Gratitude," (the subject
chosen for this meeting) and made a few en-
couraging remarks. Sister Mary Freeze, in
her remarks, said, "We do not know the
talents God has blessed us with, until we
try to improve ourselves and this is the
place to improve our minds. We are des-
tined to become great women, and if we
turn aside it were better for us that we had
never received the light. Every young
lady who joins this Association with the de-
sire of improving, will feel the Spirit of
God in her heart. Our spirits were reserved
to come forth in the "last days" to perform
a great work, and for this we should be
grateful." Sister Clara Conrad remarked,
while speaking; girls if you marry young
men who are lukewarm do not let them
make you so but live nearer to the Lord and
encourage your husband to do the same.
Women, as a general rule, do not realize
the great amount of influence they possess
over their husbands and if their influence
is properly used great good can be done.
Several other sisters addressed the meeting
and expressed themselves much pleased
with the instructions given.
	Our Association is constantly increasing
in numbers, there being at present about
fifty members. Our select readings consist
of articles from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Journal of Discourses, and other appropri-
ate books and papers. But the EXPONENT
is our favorite from which to select pieces
for reading, and we pray for its continued
success,
	MISS MARY STEWART, PRESIDENT;
		MISS PHEBE MERRILL, Secretary.

	NEPHI JUAB Co., Aug, 15th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Nephi Relief Society held their
yearly meeting on the eleventh of July.
There was a good attendance both of breth-
ren and sisters. Our pleasure was greatly
enhanced by an unexpected visit from Bros.
Smoot and Dusenbury, of Provo, Bro. Bring-
hurst of Springville, and by the presence of
our Bishop and his counselors. They all
manifested great interest in our welfare and
prosperity; gave us much good counsel; en-
couraged us to go on, and do all the good in
our power; to meet together often and en-
courage each other, which the faithful few
still continue to do realizing it is only
through faithfulness that they will obtain


the favored reward, Our Financial Report
is not as flattering as it sometimes is, still,
we have plenty to supply the wants of the
poor and some to spare.
	On the same day that our yearly meeting
occurred, myself with several other sisters
prepared a little surprise party for our be-
loved President. After meeting commen-
ced—our arrangements having been made
beforehand—two sisters slipped out of meet-
ing, went to her house, obtained the door
key from her fun loving husband and ar-
ranged everything while she was absent.
The brethren from Provo and Springville—
who happily surprised us all—were let into
the secret and requested to follow her home
in company with the brethren of this place
that had been invited. Her counselors pro-
posed to go home with her which she
thought quite unusual for them. When she
got near home, she remarked to them that
the brethren seemed to be all going her
way, wished she had a good supper ready
that she could invite them to partake of
but, at any rate would ask them to call and
take a glass of home-made wine, which she
did and which invitation they accepted.
Imagine her surprise, when she came to her
door, found it open and a well filled table,
spread the entire length of the room. We
kept our secret well for she had not received
the least hint of it or even suspected any-
thing. She was so overcome at the expres-
sion of good feelings towards her that,
though she could say but very little, her
eyes told her gratitude to her heavenly
Father and her friends for such a manifes-
tation of respect and esteem, of which she
is well worthy. All went off pleasantly, and
we had a good time together.
	Wishing you succes with your valuable
paper, I remain Your Sister in the Gospel.
			AMY L. BIGLER, Secretary.

	SANTAQUIN, UTAH Co., Aug. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation was organized Sept, 11th, 1873, with
Mrs. Mary Ann Stickney for President; Mrs.
Hannah Kirkman, Mrs. Julia D. Wilson,
Mrs. Caroline Maxham, Miss Edar Teitgen,
Miss Alice Wall and Miss Caroline Larson, for
Counselors, Mrs. Ann J. Stickney for Secre-
tary, and Miss Caroline Butler for Treasurer.
We have also a Teacher's Quorum; composed
of eight young ladies with a president.
	Our meetings are well attended and we all
feel well in the work in which we are en-
gaged. About forty of the members met
on the 21st inst. and spent the day, besides
partaking of a picnic-dinner, in quilting,
and sewing patch work and carpet rags for
the benefit of the Relief Society until 4 p.
m. when, according to adjournment, we
commenced our meeting which was opened
with prayer. The minutes of the last
meeting were read and accepted. Selec-
tions from the EXPONENT and other papers
were read and remarks were made by quite
a number of the sisters. Bro. Levi Han-
cock, who, being in the place, had been in
vited to meet with us, also made some very
encouraging remarks in favor of the Young
Ladies' Association. Meeting adjourned to
Sept. 3rd. Closed with prayer by Bro.
Hancock.
MRS MARY ANN STICKNEY, President,
		MRS. ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.

		PAYSON, UTAH Co. Aug. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth Annual meeting August 18th. Meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer;
followed by the calling of the roll and read-
ing of the minutes of last meeting. The
Financial Report, for the past year was
read which showed that during the year
the Society had given to the poor $127; to
the St. George Temple $53: and to the Tem-
ple in Salt Lake City $20.
	Pres. Mrs. Jane Simons spoke of the
organization and good results of the Relief
Society. Bishop J. S. Tanner and Elder T.
M. Coombs spoke about the United Order,
the laws and regulations of which were
read by Elder Coombs. Mrs. A. M. Snyder
read an original composition. Elders C.
Simons, W. Wignall, and H. Moore fol-
lowed with excellent remarks. Pres. Jane
Simons extended an invitation to all
present to partake of a picnic repast pre-
pared by the Teachers and a few of the
members, also desired their prayers in be-
half of her Counselor Agnes Douglass, who
was not well. Benediction by Elder I. M.
Coombs.
		MRS. JANE SIMONS, President,
			MRS. M. A. HARDY, Secretary.

		MONA, JUAB Co., Aug. 21st, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Since the organization of the Relief So
ciety in this place a good many poor have
been relieved by it; and money has been
gathered to assist the emigration of the
poor Saints in foreign lands. A good spirit
prevails in our meetings, but they are not
always well attended. Much more good
could be done if the sisters were more
punctual in attending.
	I have reflected much upon the United
Order which has been organized at St. George
and accepted in many places. I feel to thank
my heavenly Father for His goodness in
giving to us this holy Order, and strive to
renew my diligence that I may ever be
ready to receive the word of the Lord and
obey it.
	With many wishes for the success of your
valuable paper, I subscribe myself your
sister in the Gospel.				E. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				51


For the EXPONENT.
	     WOMAN, HER SPHERE.

	In the first place, woman is to be a help-
meet to man. This sentence alone comprises
a great deal; it is not to be expected that
she will do a man's work but she should not
feel degraded in performing her household
duties as far as lays in her power; by doing
this she can become a great help to her hus-
band. Another very important thing; she
should improve her mind by the aid of every
good and useful book, for this is a duty she
owes to herself and also to her posterity.
We can scarcely realize what a benefit it is
to children to have a mother who is well
educated and who understands her religion
for herself as is her privilege. They are
taught correct language and true principles
from the beginning, consequently they grow
up in the right path and when this is the
case they are not likely to depart from the
truth. On the other hand it is reprehensi-
ble in the highest degree for a mother to
waste her time reading novels or any of the
foolish literature with which the world
abounds. In regard to fashion; there are
higher and nobler things that should occupy
her thoughts. She should not dress to look
odd and different from every body else but
she can dress with neatness and taste with-
out taking pattern from any one, or racking
her brain for hours; and perhaps days, to
take or obtain something she has seen
somebody else wear. In fine she should
strive to be a Saint in every thought, word


and deed, and this will teach her at all times
the right course to pursue.


FLOWERS.

	BE slow to take when strangers haste to
give.
	BE praised not for your ancestors, but for
your own virtues.
	FOR men to search out their own glory is
not glory.
	TRUTH sometimes tastes like medicine,
but that is an evidence that we are ill.
	LEARNING is wealth to the poor, an hon-
or to the rich, aid to the young, and a sup-
port and comfort to the aged.
	USE whatever talent you possess. The
woods would be very silent if no birds were
to sing there but those who sing best.
	A GREAT step is gained when a child has
learned that there is no necessary connec-
tion between liking a thing and doing it.
	BETTER be right than conquer in an argu-
ment. Better bear the assumption of ig-
norant men than waste your dearly bought
experience on fools.
	THERE is a certain softness of manner
which in either man or woman, adds a
charm that almost entirely compensates for
lack of external beauty.
	JUST as a mother grieves over her child's
weakness and faultiness, but still loves him
most tenderly, so God cherishes us, not-
withstanding all our frailty.
	LAZINESS grows on people; it begins in
cobwebs, and end in iron chains. The more
business a man has to do the more he is able
to accomplish, for he learns to economize his
time.
	NOTHING more powerful argues a life be-
yond this than the failure of ideals here.
Earth gives us but fragments of humanity,
fragments of heart, fragments of mind, frag-
ments of charity, love and virtue, and in-
stead of being a world, is only a handful of
seeds out of which a full blown world might
grow, but has not yet grown.


THE SEX.

	MISS Ellen M. Soule of Sing Sing. N. Y.,
has been elected dean of the Woman's col-
lege at Evanston. Miss Soule will also fill
the chair of French in the Northwestern
University.
	MISS Lavinia Goodell, who has just been
admitted to the bar in Wisconsin, is a
daughter of the venerable William Goodell,
now upwards of eighty years of age, and
who was so long identified with journalism
in Providence, Boston, Utica and New York.
	MRS. Harriet N. Flint has purchased the
old hotel estate at North Reading, Mass., and
will erect a commodious building, contain-
ing a hall, and rooms for public library and
town offices, which she proposes to main-
tain for that town forever. Mrs. Flint was
for a long time, a resident of North Reading,
and her name has been connected with
many charitable actions.


A FRENCHMAN, struggling to learn the
English language, replied thus to friendly
salutations: "How do you do; Monsieur?" 
"Do vat?" "How do you find yourself?" "I
never looses myself." "Well, then, how do
you feel?" Smooth: you just feel me."
"Good-morning, Monsieur.', "Good! no,
it's a bad one; it's vet and muddy."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA , H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 15, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.
	HINTS ON EDUCATION.

	By looking around I am convinced that
the youth of this land, and indeed all lands,
perhaps, are but poorly taught the true ob-
jects of life. The race, in general are led
mainly by impulse the result of which, as
experience proves, are very deplorable and
should be remedied; not that I would wish
the vivacity and ardor of youth extinguished
in their breasts, but that it should be gov-
erned by intellect—that all our conduct
should have the sanction of the highest or-
der of judgment and morality. Any
other course in life will, of necessity result
in mischievous consequences and often in
the destruction of the greater part of our
future happiness.
	To perform the animal functions of our
nature seems to consume the time, health,
and strength, and happiness of a vast num-
ber of mankind; none of the faculties pro-
per to man are exercised otherwise than
as a means to minister to animal gratifica-
tion which is to a great extent, blamable to
the lack of proper education.
	I do not believe as some do, that to suffer
here will enhance our happiness in the
world to come. The laws of our physical
and mental organization should be taught
to all; and to comply with their require-
ments should produce a constant spring of
joy, and happiness, and all should be taught
as to the adaptability to these laws to their
God-ordained office. How full of advice
and warning, would be a page from the his-
tory and experience of many mothers to
their daughters; yet how few get it! How
much happiness, and how many lives are
sacrificed to the rearing of a large family
where the parental constitution says, only a
small one should have been reared. Many
young folks engage in marriage, and, for a
momentary pleasure, sacrifice their real hap-
piness, yet know no better until sad exper-
ience teaches them their folly.
	It appears to me the word "education" is
but little understood. To understand the
laws of our being and how to secure means
for proper obedience to them, should be the
basis of education and the object of all
teaching. It would be folly to teach a girl
the arts of agriculture, manufactures, etc. in
in preference to domestic duties and the
training of the young, yet how much nearer
is their usual training calculated to fit them
for the duties of their sex, in general?
The education that girls commonly receive
does not teach them such duties or their
nature but, to the contrary, engenders false
tastes and, to a degree, deteriorates them
for the performance of such duties. This
is especially true where great educational
faculties are enjoyed.
	To die, is not the normal destiny of in-
fants, yet, how many do, or I might have
asked how few do not! had the mothers
learned what the writer thinks they should,
their children would have lived, but as it is
many die because of ignorance. This is
painful to reflect upon. The knowledge
here indicated, given to girls would be su-
perior to to any other, because their in-
terests in eternity, as well as their present
happiness depend upon their actions here.
All who ever came to this earth, came to
mature but through the ignorance of those
who had their charge, very many have left
before half—yes, before their lives were
scarcely begun. That we should mature, is
the intention of our Maker. Age with its
gray locks is our destiny by nature, is one of
the greatest honors and is one of God's
best gifts to man, without which his life is
a partial failure.
	Then, mothers, teach your girls the true
objects and laws of life; teach them what
true happiness is and how to gain it; and
how to preserve those immortal buds to
body and spirit, which God may give them,
in health and consequently in beauty; that
they may wear the gray hairs of honorable
old age and when the ardor of youth has
given place to judgment, and youthfulness
to age they may reflect with pleasure upon
their past experience.			E. T.
	RICHFIELD, SEVIER, CO.


A WORD TO THE SISTERS.
"Come, let us reason together, saith the Lord."
	Mothers, do we realize our positions and the
responsibility resting upon us. "In the first
place let us begin at the beginning;" we cove-
nanted at the alter to be true and faithful to
the one whom above all others, we had select-
ed to go hand in hand with through life; to
him who had also covenanted to cherish, pro-
tect, and provide for us.
	When we went forth in the waters of bap-
tism, we covenanted with the Lord to do all
that was right in his sight as far as he would
give us knowledge. "Jesus said, "Seek ye
first the kingdom of God and his righteousness;
and all these things shall be added unto you;"
so, according to this, God will bless with
knowledge and strength as their day all those
who earnestly seek his blessings. If we would
keep those Covenants we have entered into, we
must keep them to the best of our knowledge
and ability; as wives we must be faithful in all
things; if we see our husbands giving way to
the influence of evil or being remiss in their
duties, it is then we can show our watchful
and loving care over them by living our reli-
gion and earnestly praying to our Father and
God to help us in bringing them again in the
line or path of duty; for we well know it is the
Priesthood, that Satan will hurl his forces
against, seeking their destruction because of
the power that God has conferred upon them.
Then let us be watchful and seek to help build
up our husbands and defend the Holy Priest-
hood, God has again placed upon the earth.
	Now we come to the most important part of 
our mission "Our children;" can we be called
faithful to our husbands and to our Father and
God if we neglect our children and do not train
them to serve God and keep His command-
ments; if we do not educate them to the best
of our ability and give each one a trade or a
profession that will elevate him or her and
help them to be useful members of society; an
honor to their parents, and a blessing to the
Church and kingdom of God? Some of my
sisters will say, perhaps, "It is not our place.
The responsibility rests upon our husbands."
Sisters, will you stand idly by and see your
sons going to destruction and your daughters
being led blindly to their ruin and not seek to
save them by every means in your power?
Let us each begin at home and try now to save
our own children. We should commence
whilst they are young, to take or send them to
Sunday School; as soon as they are old enough,
take them to meeting with us, and teach them
to be quiet and orderly in the House of God
which to us is a very important point; teach
them by our own acts and example to respect
the Servants of God and to be obedient to
their fathers, ourselves and all the authorities
placed over them; teach the boys to have con-
fidence in us; counsel them to learn a trade
helping them to find one congenial to their
feelings and, above all things, keep them from
the evil company now around us, for, no matter
how nice they may appear, their business is to
pull down what we have helped to build, to
destroy what we seek by every means in our
power to save—viz.: our children—it also be-
hoves us to be very careful in selecting teachers
and places where our children can be educated
in the different branches that shall fit and pre-
pare them for the battle of life.
	We may, perhaps, know some that are per-
fect in their business qualifications but will
they be found fit in their religious principles,
or will they seek by every means in their
power to instill into the minds of the young
that poison that will kill the germ of truth
and righteousness we have so carefully planted
there? These are things to be looked after and
the evil shunned. Some may ask, "What
would you do if your children had already been
suffered to run wild without occupation, only
as they felt inclined and had become head-
strong, disobedient, etc.;" retrace your steps,
humble yourselves in mighty prayer and seek
to find the key to that boy's or that girl's heart;
seek to obtain their confidence, lead them care-
fully, point out kindly the evils of their course,
and throw around them all the influences for
good that you possibly can, and God will surely
crown your efforts with success and you will
have saved a soul and that soul your own flesh
and blood.
	I do not wish, nor mean that we should set
ourselves up in opposition to our husbands but
that we should do our whole duty; and in those
instances where husbands and fathers seem in-
different concerning their children it is plainly
the mother's duty to save her children by every
means in her power.
	Thinking that this subject is too important
to be fully entered into in this article we hope
to resume it in our next.				E. D.


UTAH AFFAIRS.	
	We acknowledge receipt of a neat pamphlet
bearing the title of "Utah Affairs. Congress
and Polygamy. Including the Poland Bill,'
which, on examination we find to be a series
of letters that appeared in the Des. News, over
the signature of "Veritas." The author says
that he "has used, very generally, the langauge
of prominent and distinguished parties, know-
ing that such matter has the greater weight."
Those who desire information on the foregoing
subjects will doubtless find this work well wor-
thy of a perusal. For sale at the Deseret News
Office. Price twenty-five cents.


TO AGENTS AND SUBSCRIBERS.

	Deeming it more convenient for our patrons,
we have arranged with Mr. James Dwyer,
Book-seller, Main Street, to deliver the EXPO-
NENT to City Agents who will please call there
for their papers hereafter. They will be [-]ut up


at this office, and if any mistakes should occur,
with either our city or country subscribers
please communicate with us directly so that
they may be rectified. Always in remiting
subscriptions, give the name and address of
each subscriber in full and distinctly written
also state the amount of each subscription and
when it is to commence. Much trouble is often
saved by prompt attention to these little mat-
ters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT THE Museum, we were recently shown a
piece of the rock of Gibraltar; also a medal of
pure silver, struck in 1765 in "commemoration 
of the labors of the Freiberg School of mines,"
and representing the mode, at that time, of
mining and smelting the precious ore. These
interesting specimens were presented by Mr.
H. Sewell for a future Public Museum.
	ANOTHER INSTANCE of the evils of throwing
stones occured lately. Mr. D. Grenig's little
daughter, while playing in the garden, was
struck on the forehead with a stone thrown by
a boy about fourteen years old. The wound was
a severe one. Parents should warn their chil-
dren against such a dangerous practice and use
their influence to put a stop to it. 
	"SHOULD THIS meet the eye of Sarah Cox,
(Cose?) of Ogden City, please send proper ad-
dress to your sister Ellen. My letters all come
back, without reaching you, from Ogden Post
Office, and Utah, with the word "unclaimed"
writtend on them."—Ellen Stockholm, Michel-
bury Common, Monmouth, England.
	Aug. 11th, 1874.
	WE REFER to the unavoidable delay in mail-
ing our last issue to say that it was no fault of
the Business Manager, who was absent in the
country for a few days hoping to realize a nec-
essary improvement in her health, and had left
the business in competent hands but sickness
and other unforseen difficulties prevented,
much to our regret, the paper being sent in 
time.
	WE LEARN from San Bernardino papers that
Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt, mother of Col. J. A.
Kelting, died there, Aug. 8th, in her eighty-
ninth year. She is described as being a kind
hearted woman of very retentive memory and
superior intellectual and physical powers. In
the war of 1812 she took an active part, be-
ing the owner of several privateers; and at one
time went alone from Philadelphia, her native
place, to New York to see after her interests in
that business. In 1832-3 she twice visited the
unsettled Indian Territory; subsequently she
came to Utah and in 1863 moved to San Ber-
nardino, which she made her home.
	THE FOLLOWING returns of the election show
the choice of the people: For Delegate to Con-
gress; Geo. Q. Cannon received 23,299 votes; R.
N. Baskin 4,523; Scattering 19. Giving Mr.
Cannon a majority of 18,776. The "People's
Ticket," also carried the election of local offi-
cers, excepting in Tooele county, which we
understand is to be contested.


WE WERE much pleased with the follow-
ing passages in a letter to a former number
of the "New North West," and republish
them, hoping they may tend to dispel the
unjust and too prevalent idea that boys
must have a superior education even if
their sister's schooling be limited to obtain
it. "I know a mother who was left a widow
with four children, three girls and a boy.
The girls were limited in education in order
to give the boy the advantages he needed.


The mother said that education was not
necessary for women, for they would marry
and then never have time to make use of
it. The boy has always acted generously
by his sisters. He says their education was
limited on his account and now he must do
all he can for them. I speak of this young
man because he has proved faithful to his
trust when so many others have failed.
Many a young man will look down upon his
sisters, because he knows more than they,
when his superior knowledge has been pur-
chased at the expense of their own educa-
tional necessities."


ADDRESS.
READ AT THE FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING
	OF THE PAYSON RELIEF SOCIETY.

	This is an occasion calculated to awaken
many reflections in the minds of rational, 
intelligent beings. We have the past to re-
view, the future to contemplate but not in the
uncertain light that the world contemplates
the future. We, as children of the light,
have an assurance that the world has not;
an assurance that man cannot give nor take
away; then what manner of persons ought
we to be? Should we not seek to excel in
good examples all people upon the face of
the earth? knowing, as we do that the
time of God's judgments is nigh at hand
and nothing but strict obedience to every
word of God will avail us to turn away
His fierce indignation; for He will not
be mocked, neither can He look upon sin
with the least degree of allowance; and al-
so has He not called us from among all na-
tions and plead with us continually, from
the begining, to lay aside all our old leaven,
even the ways of the world and the fash-
ions of Babylon and become one in all things
according to the pattern given to the an-
cient saints? which Gospel has been revealed
in these last days and taught continually.
It is destined to stand, to revolutionize the
earth and bring in the reign of righteous-
ness and peace; to bring man back into the
presence of his Creater and continue his
eternal round of glory, honor, power, do-
minion and eternal increase. What intel-
ligent mind can contemplate these things
and not be filled with unspeakable joy? or
who can shrink from any duty, or cross or
sacrifice, if it can be called a sacrifice? for
are we not perishable and even the earth,
and the elements are to be dissolved and
pass away. But, behold! in obedience there
is safety, even when the heavens and the
earth shall have passed away, and, there-
fore let us be wise in the day of our proba-
tion and lay aside every weight and every
sin; even our unbelief which doth so easily
beset us, for the Prophet Joseph said that
unbelief was, of all others, the most easy
besetting sin and would lead to all other 
sins. Oh! then let, us be wise and lay aside 
every vain desire cultivate the spirit of
oneness and love, an unselfish love like that 
our Savior manifested, even that self-deni-
al which enabled him to overcome all the
powers of darkness and become sanctified
and glorified in a fulness of his Father's
presence. He has promised that they who
believe, nothing doubting, the things that
he did shall they do also. Now do we be-
lieve on Him? if so, let us arise and let our
light shine by strict obedience to every
word that shall proceed from His servants
and no power will be able to prevail against
his chosen people.


WHEN is a horse not worth a shilling?
When he is worthless.					

INTEREST-ING man—A bank clerk.


FLORAL HINTS.

		ST. GEORGE, Aug. 15th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	For the florist this is the saddest time of
the year, the great heat is so exhausting to
the plants that special care is necessary.
Flowers should be moderately watered and
the ground stirred often, at least every day
or two. Long stems should be tied securely
to sticks. and all, old, dry, dead, or decay-
ing plants removed ftom the garden and the
room given to other plants. As fast as Ro-
ses and Dahlias get out of bloom cut away
the seed buds, and other flowers will be
more perfect, larger and more plenty. Keep
Geraniums in an atmosphere cool and moist,
partly shaded from the sun. Plant seeds
now for winter blooming in partly shaded
situations. If not already done, take up
bulbs of Tulips, Crocus, Hyacinths, and all
like flowering plants, dry them in the
shade and plant them out again in October.
Save ripe seeds of such flowers as you de-
sire to propagate and put them in paper
bags, plainly marking each one. Put down lay-
ers of Verbenas and such other plants as you 
wish to pot for winter use. Cut away the
old stems of China Pinks if you wish to see
them finely in bloom again. Gather all the
various seeds you want for fancy frame
work, as they ripen. 		FLORA.


﻿WAITING UNTIL THE LAST MOMENT.

	The habit of putting off and deferring
until the last moment things which must
be ready at a certain time causes much
poor and mediocre work, many unfinished
jobs, broken promises, and is in fact one of
the means by which the world is kept in
confusion.  
	The workman or woman in any depart-
ment of labor, who is always prompt and
punctual in having work ready when
promised, stands the best kind of a chance
to make money and friends.
	When a customer has to work a day or
two on a dress atter it is sent home from
the dress-maker, she is not apt to be pleased
with the job, or to call again, or recommend
her friends to do so.
	Good dress-makers are called bad ones by
puttingoff work, until haste makes a botch
of a garment.
	Nothing so builds up a reputation and
brings friends and patronage to any busi-
ness as beginning in time to have work
ready when promised, and to have it done
well. Housekeepers who act upon the
same principle have contented families, or-
derly and pleasant homes, when deferring
to the last minute would keep things in a
jumble of hot dinners, scorched meats, hot
pastry and cross husbands.


A HOUSEHOLD ORNAMENT.—"A small
wire basket lined with various colored tis-
sue paper, nicely fringed hands in one cor-
ner of the room; a bunch of gay Southern
moss hangs in wavy flakes around the bas- 
ket. In the basket sets a two pound oyster 
can, filled with water and a sweet potato.
It has sent out a vine several feet in length,
guided by strings over the clock, around
picture frames, and twining through man-
tle ornaments, adding beauty, and cheerful-
ness to the room. It may not be generally
known that with a vessel kept full of clear
water in a warm room a sweet potato vine
will grow all winter.  It is not necessary
that the sun shines upon it."


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ADELAIDE PROCTOR.

I hold him great, who, for love's sake,
	Can give with generous, earnest will;
Yet he who takes for love's sweet sake
	I think I hold more generous still.

I bow before the noble mind
	That freely some great wrong forgives;
Yet nobler is the one forgiven,
	Who bears that burden well and lives.

It may be hard to gain, and still
	To keep a lowly, steadfast heart;
Yet he who loses has to fill
	A harder and a truer part.
Glorious it is to wear the crown
	Of a deserved and pure success;
He who knows how to fail has won
	A crown whose lustre is not less:

Great may he be who can command
	And rule with just and tender sway;
Yet is diviner wisdom taught
	Better by him who can obey.

Blessed are those who die for God,
	And earn the martyr's crown of light;
Yet he who lives for God may be
	A greater conquerer in his sight.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Pudding without Pastry.—Pare and cut
up enough apples to weigh two pounds. Boil them
and rub through a colander. Add a large spoonful
of butter while they are hot and when cold add ½
pound of crushed white sugar, 6 well beaten eggs, 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour the mixture 
into a deep dish, and bake for half an hour.

	Boiling Beef with Pork.—With a long, narrow,
sharp knife, make an incision in the beef length-
wise of the fiber; press into it closely a strip of 
fat pork, which should not be more than one inch
square. At intervals of an inch or two make
other incisions; fill with pork as before and boil as
usual. This beef is more palatable, particularly to
those persons who like a "streak of fat and a streak
of lean," and withal all is quite showy when cut
in slices to be eaten cold.

	To Preserve Grapes with Honey.—Take seven
pounds of good sound grapes on the stems, the
branches as perfect as possible, and pack them
snugly without breaking, in a stone jar. Make a 
syrup of four pounds of honey and one pint of good
vinegar, with cloves and cinnamon to suit (about 
three ounces each is our rule.) Boil them well to-
gether for twenty minutes, and skim well, then
turn boiling hot over the grapes, and seal imme-
diately. They will keep  years if you wish, and
are exceedingly nice. Apples, peaches, and plums
may be done  the same way.

	Cleansing Bottles.—The Manufacturer and 
Builder says:—Many persons clean bottles by put-
ting in some small shot and shaking them around.
Water dissolves lead to a certain extent, and a film
of this lead attaches itself to the sides of the bot-
tle so closely that the shaking or rinsing with water
does not detach it, and it remains to be dissolved 
by any liquid which has the least sourness in it, and
if drank, lead poison may be the result, sometimes
a shot becomes wedged in at the bottom of a bottle, 
to be dissolved by wine or cider. Therefore, it is 
better to wash every bottle, as soon as emptied,
with warm water and wood ashes, or saleratus, and
put the bottles away, mouth open and downward:
but be careful to wash again when used, as flies
and other insects frequently get into open bottles.

	Working too hard.—All over the land the cry is
from farmer's wives, "I'm so tired; my work is so
hard, I do not think farming pays, there is so much
hard labor connected with it." I wish I could say
to every one of them don't work all the time. Let 
something go undone if you cannot do it without
overtaxing your strength. Constant labor from
sunrise to sunset makes a joyless life. I remember
in my early married life, when my husband and I


first started on a new farm that I worked just as
hard as I could all the time for a week at a time.
I have washed and churned and baked (for a
small family to be sure), Mondays, besides doing
the inevitable work which comes every day in a
house. I look back now with regret on the waste
of strength I was guilty of by so doing. Big
day's works break down men and women both
prematurely. Have moral courage enough to be
called lazy rather than ruin your health by con-
tinuous hard labor. Do not consider the time
thrown away that you spend resting and reading.
Feed your mind as well as your body if you would
"live while you live."—A Farmer's Wife.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	TO PREVENT HYDROPHOBIA.—A high
medical authority on the subject, offers the
following simple rules, which, if observed
strictly, cannot fail to lessen the danger
from hydrophobia, if they do not prevent it
entirely:
	1. A dog that is sick from any cause
should be watched and treated carefully un-
til his recovery.
	2. A dog that is sick and restless is an
object of suspicion. This is the earliest pe-
culiar system of hydrophobia.
	3. A dog that is sick and restless and has
a depraved appetite, gnawing and swallow-
ing bits of cloth, wood, coal, brick, mortar,
&c., is a dangerous animal. He should be
at once chained up and kept in confine-
ment until his condition is clearly ascer-
tained.
	4. If, in addition to any or all of the fore-
going symptoms, the dog has delusion of
the senses, appearing to see or hear imagi-
nary sights or sounds, trying to pass through
a closed door, catching at flies in the air
when there are none, or searching for some-
thing which does not exist, there is great
probability that he is, or is becoming, hy-
drophobic. He should be secured and con-
fined without delay.
	5. In case any one is bitten by a dog
whose condition is suspicious, the most ef-
fective and beneficial mode of treatment is
to cauterize the wound at once with a stick
of silver nitrate, commonly called "lunar
caustic." The stick of caustic should be
sharpened to a pencil point, introduced quite
to the bottom of the wound, and held in
contact with every part of the wounded
surface until it is thoroughly cauterized and
insensible. This destroys the virus by
which the disease would be communicated.

	RESUSCITATION OF DROWNED PERSONS.—
The Massachusetts Humane society has is-
sued a card with these directions for restor-
ing persons apparently drowned:—Convey
the body to the nearest house, with head
raised. Strip and rub dry. Wrap in blan-
kets. Inflate the lungs by closing the nos-
tril with thumb and finger and blowing into
the mouth forcibly, and then pressing with
hand on the chest and so on for ten minutes,
or until he breathes. Keep the body warm,
extremities also. Continue rubbing—do
not give up so long as there is any chance
of success.

	REMEDY FOR LOOSENESS IN THE BOWELS
OR CHOLERA MORBUS.—Mix two tablespoon-
fuls of wheat flour with just water enough
to moisten the flour; drink it. If the first
dose does not check pain, or the purging,
repeat the dose in half an hour. Severe
cases sometimes require a third dose.

	CURE FOR CORNS AND BUNIONS.—Squeeze
out the juice of two good lemons; put it in
a bottle, add one dozen small pearl buttons—
old ones will do as well as new; shake the


bottle well a few times until the buttons are
all dissolved, when is is ready for use. Ap-
ply with the finger to the corn or bunion
twice a day until a cure is effected. I have
never known it to fail of accomplishing the
desired result. It is very penetrating.
Keep closely corked.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PARIS, ONEIDA CO.,
		IDAHO TER. Aug. 17th, 1874.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been requested to write yo[-]
occasionally I cheerfully comply, although
it does not fall within the line of my usual
occupation. For the last few years my call-
ing, apart from the cares of my family, has
been to attend to the sick, as we have no
real doctors in this valley. I feel thankful
that I have, through the blessings of the
Lord, been an instrument in His hands of
relieving the afflicted; and I would suggest
to my sisters, would it not be better for us
to inform ourselves more in regard to our
children and their diseases, than spending
so much of our time with fashions and dress.
For what mother is there, who, when she
sees her children writhing in the agonies of
death, would not give all she possesses if
she could but relieve it. As I visit among
the sick, I find a great lack of education
among the sisters in regard to the natural
laws of health.
	Although we are a little on the outside of
your Territory, we wish to be numbered
with you and considered a branch of the
olive tree; not a dead branch but a living
one, and willing to join you, heart and
hand in every good work. We have a fine
valley here and a beautiful lake, abounding
with fish of the finest quality. There are
twelve towns or settlements in the valley,
and a Relief Society is organized in each set-
tlement. I think the members of the Paris
Relief Society number about one hundred,
and to my certain knowledge they are a
great blessing to the poor, the sick, and the
needy; although we have but few in our
midst who are not able to help themselves.
Our grain crops look promising; we antici-
pate a good harvest if the frost keeps off a
little longer. Your paper is duly apprecia-
ted and hailed as a welcome messenger
among the saints. I remain, as ever, your
sister in the Gospel.			E. G. R.


ANECDOTE.—Clergyman in the olden
time took great liberties in giving whole-
some advice in their sermons to individual
members of the congregation. When Mrs.
Abigail Adams, wife of President John
Adams, was married, her father, Rev. Mr.
Smith, of Braintree, Massachusetss, who was
a person of great humor and originality,
preached a queer sermon. On the occasion
of the marriage of his first daughter, Mary,
to a Mr. Cranch, he preached a sermon from
the text, "And Mary hath chosen that good
part which shall not be taken away from
her." John Adams was of a family of no
special position, and was not thought quite
good enough for the parson's daughter.
Moreover, he was a lawyer, and the law was
regarded in Puritan New England as a de-
vious and not altogether respectable profes-
sion. But John was an honest, temperate
young man, and the parson approved Abi-
gail's choice. Accordingly, the Sunday af-
ter their marriage, he preached from the
text, "And now came John; neither eating
bread, nor drinking wine, and ye say, he
hath a devil."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.	
		MAKE THE BEST OF IT.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	A morning in June is not fresher and
sweeter with its perfume of flowers, breath
of roses, hum of bees and songs of birds,
than the presence of those who make the
best of everything. They fill the house with
sunshine and impart a soft and mellow ra-
diance to all around; out of the dry, color-
less, hard, forbidding, husks of life they
extract and hive sweet contentment, pure
satisfaction, and true happiness; culling
treasures on every hand.
	"A lucky temperament" you will say, yes,
temperament is much but so is training.
Do you suppose training counts for nothing?
Character is partially inherent but we are in
a great measure the arbiters of our own for-
tunes.
	Life, philosophers tell us, is but "little
better than a state of warfare;" then let us
call up all the forces of merit, strength of
mind and individuality to compete with it;
it is the little kindnesses, the little courte-
sies, the little charities that tell; they
smooth away the roughnesses of life and
render it more endurable. The truest cour-
tesy is impelled from a good heart. Smiles,
words of encouragement and praise are
needful for the soul's health; let no one de-
spise these small things nor believe them
beneath their notice and too trivial for their
attention. These are charities with which
money has no concern; opportunities for
doing good, which we all are in danger of
overlooking because they are common things
of every day occurrence and require so
small an effort. If we were careful to take
advantage of these little opportunities, the
day, that to another is insupportable would
be to us full of happiness.
	It makes, perhaps, but little difference to
mankind at large, whether we are happy or
unhappy but the greatest difference to our-
selves whether our  characters and faculties
are developed to the utmost or dwarfed and
stunted in their growth.
	You may, in fact, be very unhappily situa-
ted; your home disagreeable; your situation
deplorable; your surroundings discouraging;
your husband unsympathetic; you may have
poverty and sickness to contend with but if
you bravely meet your difficulties; if you
bring energy to bear in your endeavors to
overcome them; if out of your own sadness
you can learn to touch tenderly and soothe
the sadness of another; you will eventually
reap a fuller happiness than the first ephem-
eral enjoyments, you craved could possibly
have bestowed. One of the greatest bless-
sings given to us is, self-content, the feeling
that God's gifts have not been wasted in our
hands, the sense of an approving conscience;
and we cannot possess this (unless we are
inordinately vain conceited and self-glori-
fying) without having done our best; and
that development of character, must have
taken place in us whose influence is felt in
immense circles, ever widening like ripples
in the sea.
	Looking at it from this point of view, it
is easy to perceive that whatever exercises
to the farthest our better and stronger quali-
ties is really of the most permanent value
to us, and to the world.
	An untried disposition and temper is sim-
ply a negative virtue; but if, on the other
hand, our condition is not the best, if we are
frequently obliged to surrender our own
will, to repress our own wishes, be subject
to the annoyances of housekeeping to please
others, not ourselves, and not always be suc-
cessful at that; suffer the weakening of sick-
ness or pain, the loss of sleep through chil-
dren and other causes, have the parching, 
darning, and innumerable other little house-
hold duties to do, when other employments
would be so much more agreeable to our
natural tastes and inclinations, and have the
thousand vexations that accompany family-
life even under the most careful manage-
ment, where so many different natures
meet; if, out of this furnace we come "un-
singed by fire;" our patience refined, our
faith unimpaired, it is a positive and supe-
rior virtue.
	To live for others; to bless them; to sus-
tain them; to be an example of the perfec-
tion of womanhood, are possibilities which
ought to fertilize the most barren soul. God
has not given us faculties to lie dormant;
they wither and almost disappear if not
used, while the proper exercise of what is
best within us, develop strong characteris-
tics that not only have this effect and influ-
ence upon others about us but descend and
mold the generations to come.
	Let us then make the best of life and not
go about sorrowing and mourning, lament-
ing our cruel fate, our unhappy future; for,
when we deplore our own existence, we are
guilty of the sin of ingratitude, and injust-
tice to our Divine Creator, and are seeking
to thwart His purposes.
	Has a Being of infinite wisdom bestowed
upon mortals such lofty mental endowments,
such vast capacities to be trifled with or ig-
nored? assuredly not; our religion teaches
us to make the best of life; we are not left
to spell out our work by the light of nature
or to follow the dubious fancies and conjec-
tural uncertainties of philosophy in regard
to this; it has been revealed to us from heav-
en, and affirmed by Him whose word is
eternal truth, and He has given us the Com-
forter—if we will live for it—to help us
make the best of our lives here.
	Once more let me add: how fresh is the
picture of those who truly observe this
maxim! how reviving, invigorating and in-
spiring their presence! how heartily and
enthusiastically they are welcomed! This
positive influence is undoubtedly great, they
seem to create an atmosphere which is de-
lightful and exhilarating to breathe; and
we are all, being human, more or less sus-
ceptible to each others' influence.


THE LANGUAGE OF THE FUTURE.

	The distinguished Swiss savant, M. Al-
phonse de Candolle, in his recent "Histoire
des Sciences," has ventured some predictions
in regard to the English language, which
may interest our readers. A Swiss scholar
ought at least to be an impartial judge. M.
de Candolle believes that the English lan-
guage is to be the language of the future.
He grounds his expectations, first of all, on
the structure of the English tongue. "Its
forms," he says, "are adapted to modern
tendencies. If you have to hail a vessel,
cry stop to a train, demonstrate a machine,
make a physical experiment, speak in a few
words to people busy and practical," you
must use the English language.
	This is the tongue that we employ when
we are in a hurry, or when we wish to say
anything clearly and briefly. "In the con-
flict of two languages," he adds, "all things
being equal, it is the briefest and most sim-
ple which carries the day." He states that
he has repeatedly seen in Switzerland fami-
lies where the French and German were
equally understood, but that the French al-
ways drives out the German through its su-
perior flexibility and convenience. In like
manner, where English and French are em-
ployed in a Swiss family, and are equally
known, the English drives out the French.
It even passes from one generation to an-
other in a foreign country on account of its
superior practical convenience. In this way
he accounts for the fact that French and
German families in England or America so
quickly lose their native tongues, while En-
glish-speaking families in France or Germa-
ny transmit theirs from generation to gen-
eration. The English tongue, he says, dis-
penses with long phrases and many words;
it uses readily foreign words, but shortens
them; it has  no arbitrary distinction of
genders; the main idea is so much the ob-
ject of each sentence that in conversation
one is not obliged to finish the phrase. He
admits its capital defect, "an orthography
so irregular, that it needs a year for most
children to learn to read." Its pronuncia-
tion, too, he considers wanting in distinct-
ness. Besides its structure, M. de Candolle
holds that its great advantage in the future
is the adaptation of its literature  which
above all suits  women. They find in it
a vast number of works written with perfect
purity and propriety, upon subjects which
most interest the female sex; such as reli-
gion, poetry, education, and the like.
	The future victory, however, of the En-
glish language the Swiss savant rests on
more scientific grounds. At the present
moment the English is spoken, he estimates
by seventy-seven millions of people in Eng-
land, Australia, and America. The German
includes sixty-two millions; the French, in
France, Belgium, and the colonies, forty
and one half millions. In England the
population doubles once in fifty years, so
that in a century, or 1970, it will reach the
sum of one hundred and twenty-four mil-
lions. In the United States, Canada, and
Australia, population doubles once in twen-
ty-five years, so that their numbers in 1970
will be seven hundred and thirty-six mil-
lions. The total number, then, of the Eng-
lish speaking people in 1970 will be eight
hundred and sixty millions. In Germany
on the other hand, the population in the
north doubles in from fifty-six to sixty years;
that of the south in one hundred and sixty-
seven years. Taking one hundred years as
the average, the number of the German
speaking people in 1970 will be one hundred
and twenty-four millions.
	In France the population doubles in about
140 years, so that in a century the French-
speaking people would amount to 69 1/2 mil-
lions. According to this estimate, the Ger-
man-speaking individuals would only form
the seventh part, and the French-speaking
only the twelfth or thirteenth part, of those
speaking English in 1970, and both together
would only amount to a quarter of the Eng-
lish-speaking races.
	The future victory of the English lan-
guage seems to this Swiss scholar assured.
His wise conclusion from this prediction is
that a heavy responsibility rests on the Eng-
lish-speaking races to preserve the purity
and unity of their tongue. The danger
which he fears is that English may break
into three languages related to one another,
like Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese. It
should be our noble ambition to preserve
one great and pure tongue—the tongue of
Milton and Shakespere—as the future uni-
versal language for the thought and busi-
ness of the world. Americans, he thinks,
will have the most influence in this work,
for their country will lead those of the Eng-
lish-speaking races. Thus far, we believe,
the language has suffered no perceptible
strain or corruption upon this continent.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	DECLINE of the bar—Closing of saloons.
	AN unpleasant sort of arithmetic—Divis-
ion among families.
	"THE cause of woman's suffrage."—Scar-
city of husbands. 
	WHEN are two kings like three miles?
When they make a league. 
	WHY is a ship always designated as "she"?
Because she always keeps a man on the
look-out.
	"Mynheer, do you know for what we call
our boy Hans?" "Do not really." "Well,
I tell you.  Der reason why we call our boy
Hans, dat ish his name."
	"CAST Iron Sinks" is written upon the
sign of a Hartford plumber. "Well, who in
the (hic) said it didn't?" chuckled an inebri-
ate man, after reading it over three times.
	A LADY under great affliction, which she
did not bear in a very angelic way, once
said to her friend "Oh dear, what should I
have done in all this without religion?"	"I am sure I cannot tell," was the answer;
"but you could not have done much worse
than you have with religion." 
	IT is said that one of the editors of the 
New Orleans paper, soon after learning the
printing business, went to see a preacher's
daughter. The next time he attended
meeting, he was astonished at hearing the
minister announce as his text. "My daugh-
ter is grievously tormented with a devil." 
	THE late Father O'Leary, who was well
known as a wit, had once a polemical con-
test with the protestant Bishop of Cloyne.
The prelate in  a pamphlet, inveighed with
great acrimony against the superstitions of
Popery, and particularly against the doc-
trine of purgatory. Father O'Leary, in his
reply, slyly observed, "that much as the 
Bishop disliked purgatory, he might possi-
bly go farther and fare worse." 
	THE customers of a cooper in the High-
lands caused him a great deal of vexation
by their saving habits and persistence in
getting their tubs and casks repaired, buy-
ing very little new work. "I stood it long
enough, however," said he, "until one day
old M'Cawbrie brought in an old bung hole,
to which he said he wanted a new barrel
made. Then I quitted the North in dis-
gust.
	AN Irishman was seen coming down
Montague Street, Brooklyn, on his way to
the Wall Street Ferry. Over his port shoul-
der hung a bag containing about a bushel of
potatoes, and in his starboard hand he car-
ried a stout stick. Being under full sail, the
momentum acquired in coming down the
steep grade carried him nearly through the
gateway, when, seeing a boat about ten feet
from the dock, he shook out another reef,
made an astonishing burst of speed, and
jumped. Just as he reached the dock the
potato bag shifted heavily to port and laid
out a Broad Street clerk who was smoking a
Henry Clay through a meerschaum holder,
while the stick hit a rotund South Street
merchant in the waistband, shutting him
up like a jackknife, and Pat himself as-
sumed an involuntary devotional attitude.
He was the first to recover his perpendicu-
larity, and as he replaced the bag in its nor-
mal position, he complacently remarked,
"By me sowl, but I got the boat anyway!"
"Got the boat!" screamed he of Broad
Street spitting the pieces of amber out of his
mouth, "why, you confounded idiot, this
boat is coming in!" And so she was.


HELP-MEETS.

	The ideas of most young girls concern-
ing married life, are generally so vague and
visionary that it is no wonder they are apt
to be disappointed when the sober reality of
care and responsibility settles down upon 
them. They are to be pitied rather than
blamed, since they have been either illy
taught, or not taught at all, the correct posi-
tion they must assume the day they don the
title of wife. It is not uncommon for young
girls to plunge direct from school into the
sea of matrimony, unsupported by a single
sensible notion of the life upon which they
enter, and what can be expected to follow
but failure and discontent? Marriage to
them is a sort of materialized Heaven; it is
so sweet to love and be loved; orange flow-
ers, bridal presents, and a fine looking hus-
band are so prominent in their day-dreams,
as to exclude homelier, but full as impor-
tant, accessories from their fanciful vision.
	After the days of the honeymoon pass,
the veil gradually uplifts, and they find
themselves forced to the performance of
duties disagreeable, and oftentimes uncon-
genial. It is different from what they ex-
pected, and, naturally enough, they feel that
they have not received the equivalent due
them. It is not the fault of the young
wife, but owing, in most cases, to lack of
sense displayed by those whom experience
should teach better. Had these girls been
instructed that marriage is a vineyard, in
which, properly, both parties should labor,
that the woman must do her part as well as
the man, that to promote happiness, comfort,
and prosperity, she must be emphatically a
help-meet, and not a help-eat, why then 
they might have taken their choice and
have no one to blame but themselves. Left
to herself, how does a girl of seventeen un-
derstand these matters?
	It was originally intended that the wife
should be a help-meet to the husband, not
an idle, listless woman, fritting away her
moments in useless employments that inter-
fere with the proper and conscientious per-
formance of her duties. When a man mar-
ries, his whole future often depends on the
sort of woman he marries, especially if he
is poor, and has his own fortune to carve.
If the wife is not prudent, wise, and ener-
getic, he will remain forever a mere power-
less machine dragged down by a dead
weight. It is the men whose wives have
proved themselves help-meets, truly, that
are the rich men of to-day; they may at-
tribute their wealth to speculation, keen
business talent, or anything their pride my
suggest, but examine closely the machinery
that backs them, and you will find it well-
greased with the oil of feminine craft. Men
are inclined to be extravagant, and, if helped
on and encouraged by spendthrift wives,
will lay up no pennies for the "rainy" days
of life.
	A woman should be proud to be a help-
meet to her husband. These poetical fan-
cies concerning the ivy and the oak are very
pretty, and, to a certain extent, appropriate,
but, as an American writer finely expresses
it, "the ivy should always be ready to stand
alone, if the oak shows signs of weariness."
Some women seem to have no self-depen-
dence; they throw all the burdens of life
on to their husbands' shoulders, and cannot
act for themselves in the smallest matters.
	It is certainly not a woman's place to
earn daily bread for a strong, able-bodied
man to eat, but we have noble instances on
record, where, in case of failing health or
accident, the wife has stood up equal to the
emergency, and exhibited her capacities
most thoroughly in this respect. The in-
creasing advantages daily accruing to Ameri-
can women for educating and fitting them-
selves for the pursuit, even, of masculine
occupations, render them able on necessity
to make themselves help-meets and bless-
ings to their husbands and families. May
such be the choice of all.—Lady's Journal.


MRS. WILKINSON

	  Is now constantly receiving her Fall Stock of

				MILLINERY,

   Consisting of all the New Styles of Ladies' Hats and
	Bonnets, Velvets, Flowers, Feathers, Ribbons,
	    Silks, Laces, etc., together with a fine as-
		   sortment of Ladies' White Wear,
Underwear, Children's Caps, Cloaks, Hand-made Woolen
				    Goods, etc.

			     H. DINWOODEY

WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.

			   Largest Assortment in Utah.

He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
				storey Brick Store.

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.


H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			DOCTOR CROCKWELL

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES. 

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by 
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.			-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,			-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16 
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling 
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
