VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1875	No. 19


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL in favor of woman suffrage has
been defeated in the Massachusetts Legis-
lature. Those Legislators have yet some
sterling truths to learn, though they may
be very wise.
	PEOPLE IN nearly all parts of the world,
as well as the Latter-day Saints, are begin-
ning to comprehend that the Co-operative
system of labor is calculated to bring about
the most satisfactory results.
	OF ONE hundred and fifty postmistresses
in Pennsylvania, not one, it is said, has ever
proved a defaulter to the Government. Can
all the postmasters who have served in any
one of the States be said to hold as bright
a claim to honesty?
	A GENTLEMAN who has seen seventy-four
winters, writing from Richmond, Massa-
chusetts, says that he never before experi-
enced so cold weather as he has there this
winter. A letter from a lady in Michigan
brings a similar report. And all through
the country almost the same story is told,
while in this Territory there has not been a
day of intense cold weather during the
whole winter.  In this respect, for once at
least, Utah has certainly been greatly fa-
vored.
	LADY COMMISSIONER.—The following dis-
patch appears in the San Francisco "Chroni-
cle" of the 17th inst:
				"Sacramento, Feb. 16.
	"To-day the Governor commissioned Ju-
lia K. Sutherland a Commissioner of Deeds
for the state of California, to reside in Salt
Lake City."
	Miss Sutherland is the accomplished
daughter of Judge Sutherland, of Salt Lake,
one of the best lawyers in Utah. The young
lady has also been commissioned a Notary
Public for Salt Lake county, and is thorough-
ly qualified for these positions, having stud-
ied under the Judge's tuition, and having
been of great assistance to him in the rou-
tine of his business for some time past. We
are pleased to note this appreciation of fem-
inine talent on the part of two distinguished
Governors.—Ogden Junction.
	MRS. DUNNIWAY of the "New North
West," contends that apathy, with some of
the women of the day, "amounts to crimi-
nal indifference." She says, "For women
who happen to have all their temporary
wants supplied to be totally unmindful of
the condition of their less fortunate sisters,
who must struggle, and that constantly for
the means wherewith to sustain the lives of
themselves and others, is a brand of selfish-
ness or thoughtlessness which no true wo-
man should be willing to carry upon her
brow." The sentiment is a noble one, and
may be applied to more subjects than that
of woman suffrage. We hold that in the
sight of Heaven, the careless, indolent wo-
man who is indifferent to the cause of po-
litical rights for her sisters, is even less cul-
pable than the ruthless one who considers
not whether a way is provided through
which her sisters may, in honor and chasti-
ty, enjoy hymeneal and maternal rights, so
long as she has been or may be kindly fa-
vored with the possession of those rights.


[Column 1]		
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	JEAN Ingelow has written a new serial
story entitled "Fated to be Free."
    	MARY Clemmer Ames says Speaker Blaine
is brilliant; Mrs. Blaine impressive.
	MRS. Almena H. Bass has been appointed
postmistress at East Acworth, N.H.
	QUEEN Victoria won the first prize for
pigs at a recent cattle show in London.
	A GRANDDAUGHTER of Dr. Paley has
beaten all the boys at Cambridge in moral
science.
	MISS Gertrude Pillow, daughter of Gen.
Pillow, has shot a bear near Old Town Land-
ing, Ark.
	KATE King is the Washington correspon-
dent of the Cleveland Leader. Her letters
are about "medium."
	MRS. Bryan of Abington, Ill., took 122
premiums, amounting to $1,150, on her cat-
tle, at the Fairs last fall.
	MISS Thompson of "Roll Call" renown
has been elected a member of the Institute
of Painters in Water Colors.
	MRS. Beecher and Mrs. Tilton are regular
attendants at the great Tilton-Beecher trial,
now in progress in Brooklyn.
	LADY Franklin offers $10,000 to any Arc-
tic explorer who will recover the records
and papers of her late husband.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE will of Mrs. Ann White Vose of Bos-
ton makes the remarkable bequest of $365,
000 to the public institutions of that city.
	MRS. E Manchester, familiarly known as
"Aunt Lizzie Manchester," died at Pitts-
town, Rensselaer Co., N.Y., lately, aged 105.
	REV. Phebe A. Hanaford, Miss Lelia E.
Patridge and Rev. Adda C. Bowles have
been recently lecturing acceptably in Phila-
delphia.
	THE annual ladies' reception of the Union
League Club of New York took place on the 
evening of Jan. 26th, and was a pleasant
occasion.
	EVERY daughter of the Queen of Eng-
land knows how to cook and keep house,
which shows that queens are not always de-
void of sound sense. 
	MISS Lizzie Hess, M.D., who graduated
in the Medical Department of the Iowa State
University, with the highest honors of her
class, thus far has met with very gratifying
success in practice.
	MISS Nancy Monell of St. Johns gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now superintendent of a large hospital
at Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year and all expenses paid.
	MRS. S.A. Gifford of Worcester, Mass., 
Rev. Mrs. Gustin of Attleboro, Mrs. M. L. 
Draper of Boston and Mrs. Dr. Spetigue of
Cambridgeport addressed a mass temper-
ance meeting held in the First Methodist
Church of Worcester, recently. 

[Column 2]
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
recently married to Count Tziecuzksi, has
now got a name which is the nearest ap-
proach to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze
that has yet been made. 
	MRS. Mary Whitman Eddy, wife of Dea.
Morton Eddy of Fall River, and widely
known as the successor of Mary Lyon in the
principalship of Mt. Holyoke Seminary,
died on the 6th ult., aged sixty-six years.
	DRS. Mary E. Speek and Mary S. Parsons,
colored graduates of Howard University,
having been refused admission to the medi-
cal society of the District, an organization
chartered by Congress, have petitioned
Congress that the charter of the society be
amended so that they may not be excluded
from it.
	MRS. Alice Cooley, who recently died at
Brookfield, Mass., at the age of 100 years,
was married on the first day of the present
century, in the twenty-fifth year of her
age, and went to her new house, where she
resided till Jan. 1, 1875, a period of just 75
years, when she died. She was a lady of
rare beauty and saintliness of character.
     ONE of the girl weavers in the Merchants
Mill, Fall River, was lately discharged, for
beginning work late, whereupon the other
weavers stopped work and would not begin
again until they extracted a promise from
the overseer that the looms of the girl
should stand idle until a settlement was ar-
rived at. The weavers then continued
work.


STOUT ENGLISH GIRLS.

	A correspondent of the Hartford "Times,"
writing from a Swiss inn, says: "A few
days ago just at dusk, after a cold rain had
set in, two English girls and their hand-
some, gray-haired father arrived.  They
were cold and damp, and the hotel was cold
and damp, and as we sat by our blazing fire
and heard them go into their cold rooms we
pitied them so much that we opened our
door and invited them to share our warmth
and comfort—so they came in and we chat-
ted together all the evening. Those two
bright, fresh-looking girls sat calmly in
their chairs and told us they had crossed
from Meiringen to the Rhone Glacier over
the Grimsel on foot the day before, through
a foot of snow—had walked nine miles down
the valley that morning, and then had
climbed up all the way from Viesch to the
hotel on foot in the rain that afternoon. We
looked at them aghast and murmured
'Tired?' 'O, no,' they briskly chorused:
and indeed they did look most provokingly
fresh and pretty. When we appeared in
the morning, father (who always comes in
to breakfast from out of doors with a blast
of cold air very much as if he had slept on
the nearest glacier) announced that ‘those
English girls started to walk up to the sum-
mit of the Eggischorn two hours ago and
are coming back in time to cross the Aletach
Glacier to go to the Belle Alp for the night!'
Before long they came in, brisk and rosy as
usual: 'Oh, no! not tired at all!'—and with-
out waiting for anything more than a lunch
were off again. We groaned in spirit as we
saw them disappear around a promontory."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO E. R. SNOW.

Seventy-one! can this be so,
And thy heart still throb with so fresh a glow?
Thy step so firm, and so warm and bright
The kindly beam of thy dark eye's light.

Hand ever ready the weakest to guide,
Drifting along in life's billowy tide;
Voice lifted high in the conflict for right,
And whispering peace to the soul in dark night.

Time has not frozen the fountain of love,
Pure and unfailing it flows from above;
And freely 'tis given earth's children to bless,
In times of rejoicing or deepest distress.

Priceless the seed which in this life you sow,
And priceless the fruits which thy harvest shall know;
Seed that will spring forth in glory and might
In the souls of the sons and the daughters of light.

Zion would bless you as onward you go,
Still bless and be blessed as you journey below,
Still sow the germs that will blossom so bright
In a crown for thy head in the mansions of light.

A crown all unfading, eternal, divine.
Where thorns never more with the roses will twine,
Where never more bitter will mingle with sweet,
Nor rough be the pathway, nor weary the feet.

Thy works all await thee on heaven's bright shore,
The blessings of Zion have too gone before.
The thanks of the hungry which thy hand hath fed,
The prayers of the souls which thy counsel that led.

May you live till God's people are ransomed and free,
Live till the wicked from Zion shall flee,
'Til the warfare is ended, the victory won.
Then hear the glad tidings—"Thy work is well done."
										HOPE.


R. S. REPORTS.

		AMERICAN FORK, Feb. 9th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of this city, was organized on
the 6th inst., under the superintendance of
Mrs. I. Durrant and Mrs. E. Eastmond. Miss
Mary Eastmond was chosen for President;
Miss Emily Abel, Mrs. Phebe Petersen, Miss
Jane Harrington, Miss Esther Hindley,
Miss Susannah Alston and Miss Henrietta
Henriot for Counsellors; Miss Elvina Cromp-
ton, Secretary; Miss Clara Wrighty assistant
Secretary, and Mrs. E. Durrant as Treasurer.
It was thought advisable to have a small
Fund for the purchasing of books, &c., for
the use of the Association.  There were
sixty-five names enrolled that day, and there
are others who will join that could not at-
tend then.  Bishop L. E. Harrington, Bros.
Hindley, Wm. Jackson, and others, gave
some good instructions on the object of the
Association, encouraging the young ladies
to go on in the good work, and set an exam-
ple to the young men worthy of imitation.
An address by Miss E. R. Snow, to the
young ladies of Provo, was then read from
the EXPONENT, being very appropriate to
the occasion.  Meetings are to be held each
alternate week.  We hope to be able to say
in the future a good work has been done,
which may our Heavenly Father grant, is
the desire of your humble sister in the Gos-
pel,				MRS. MARY HINDLEY.


[Column 1]		
		LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE.

							Feb. 16th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	What with the children, and the flowers,
planting garden, getting three meals a day
—washing, ironing, mending, making clothes
and the odd thousand cares of a woman
with a large family one gets very little time
to write even the letters that should go to
friends, much less time for THOUGHT, to fur-
nish something readable for the paper.—But
there is one great thought that has been re-
volving and growing larger in my mind,

[Column 2]
and I feel that I should unburden and let it
out as I did to a sister that called upon me
the other day. She was telling me what a
time she had with her children—two girls
and four boys. The girls she could manage
—but the boys! goodness—she couldn’t
keep track of them—they were always off,
in streets or somewhere. The other day one
came home with a bloody nose—got hurt in
a fight. A few days before another had
been thrown from a wild horse and got his
ankle sprained—a smaller one had fallen in-
to the fire of a brush heap, the other night,
while in company with some young hood-
lums—and next she expected some of them
would get killed, and she could not tell why
she COULD not manage her children—She
whipped, scolded, and threatened them
every day but they wouldn’t mind—John,
the oldest would go off every night and
stay out late, and she could not coax him to
stay at home, he always had to “see some-
body” or had an errand down town—and to
her grief and horror, 'tother night he came
home more than half tipsy—and she wept
in much distress—and when she had exhaust-
ed herself relating her troubles, she asked
me, "HOW DO you manage your boys that
they are always at home and steady and
never drunk, do not smoke, nor chew tobac-
co, nor get into trouble—do tell me! Well
says I,—I manage my children a little differ-
ent from any body else—I try to make
HOME the most pleasant of all places in
town, and thus my children do not wish to
go away, but their companions are attracted
to them here. And so I am always enabled
to watch over all their sports and amuse-
ments, and to advise, correct, or reprove as
need may be. "Why certainly," says she, "I
always try to have them do so too, but they 
wont." Well, says I, perhaps you don’t provide
them the means proper and necessary for
their amusement. "What do you mean?"
she asked, "I'm sure I give them all anybody
can need. I feed them regularly—give them
gcod clothes, have a warm house, a Bible,
Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants
and sometimes borrow a "Desert News" for
them to read. Now what more can one do?"
My Dear Sister, says I—children must be
studied, and managed and led, or they will
not be a success. Their minds are weak—
tender—early led and turned from good or
evil. Their minds are active and must have
occupation. Too much labor tires—too much
study stupefies,—so the mind must be fed
with light as well as heavy food. If you
would catch flies, don't use a vinegar bait
If you want your children to stay at home
make home attractive, pleasant, delightful,
STOP SCOLDING and thundering, burn up the
rods—rule by love. When they are a little
noisy or boisterous in the house, don't scold
or turn them out of doors, but join them in
their fun. Appear interested in their
amusement and then you can manage them
easily. Give them such reading as they
like,—good stories, funny reading, puzzles
—picture and toy books. Then for a change,
get different games, learn them their use
and sometimes play with them, and don't
live away up in another atmosphere from
your children. Go down where they live,
and stay there much of your time—then
your children will love you and are gov-
erned. "But" says she " I don't understand
half you say, about the reading and games
and other ways to keep children, and I am
so interested please tell me just how you do.
So I took her into the other room, I showed
her our shelves full of nice books, papers
and magazines, for children to read—showed
her the winter flower garden and how each
one of the children owned and attended a
part—then showed her the games, blocks, 

[Column 2]
cut cards—chess—checkers—dominoes and
other sources of amusement.—Then the lit-
tle room used as a museum—where all curi-
osities—bugs—insects—stuffed animals curi-
ous pictures and a thousand things are laid
around. I told her each child assisted in
the collection, of flowers, plants, insects, an- 
imals,—curious rocks, ores, and pebbles; and
then the play grounds and the little out
doors garden of each—and then we strolled
around the gardens, orchard and vineyard
—the fruit being one of the greatest attrac-
tions for the little ones, in its seasons.—
“Well,” says she, "this is all wonderful,
and new to me I never before thought of
such ways to manage children—and I don't
wonder with one so kind as you and so
many ways of enjoyment, that you get
along with your children so well. I mean
to turn over a new leaf and try your plan,
and the poor woman went off quite comfor-
ted.
 	Well really Ive been so intent and inter-
ested in telling about the poor woman that
my bread has got scorched—and dear me!
here comes Willie, crying, poor little fellow!
—he has been out poking sticks in entrance
of beehive and has got stung. But there.
I held a little wet mud on the place for a 
few minutes and the pain has gone.—O
dear! I used to wish Willie would get big
enough to walk, so he would be less trouble,
but goodness sakes! it seems ten times more
trouble now. He goes everywhere—is in
every possible mischief all the time—and I 
believe I'd rather have two or even three
babies to care for.—Well I must get the lit-
tle toddler asleep.
			As ever,
						FLORA.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In the vale of Avon, within sight of and
on the grounds of the castle that stands on
the margin of that classic river where the
immortal Shakespere first drew breath, I
received the life that has been preserved for
near sixty years, and intelligence respect-
ing that future life to which we are all hast-
ening. The faith then implanted in my
bosom by a mother's teachings, has grown
into a closer acquaintance with God than
faith implies; for this I thank my mother—
as well as my Father who is in the heavens!
Hence my first effort, in responding to your
kind invitation, is naturally influenced by
remembrances of her teachings, and no
name seems so appropriate to be known by
as that of the place where I received my
first inspirations.
	Dear Sister, most respectfully I subscribe
myself,				AVONDALE.

					For the EXPONENT.
			MY MOTHER.

			BY AVONDALE.

	My Mother has been dead now more than
fifty years. She taught me to have faith in
God; at that time the hydra-headed mon-
ster that has developed into modern Infidel-
ity had not taken the hideous shape it has
to-day.  In those days folks went to church,
and, if what the parson said "went in one
ear and out of the other" people didn't re-
vile at religion. They had not found out
the way then to be irreligious on scientific(?)
principles; to prove that there is no God by
the perfection of the whole, and the auto-
matic simplicity of the parts, of these grand
creations we live in.
	Well, mother taught me to pray. I do
not remember the form or words used, but
I do remember she taught me to feel as if I


was in the presence of God. Now-a-days
some people would laugh at this kind of
education.
	I often think of the small seed then im-
planted in my mind and try to describe it
to myself and others, but words fail me.  I
saw by her eve, I felt in my soul, and—I
can’t tell it.
	She was a mother; I have seen, I do see
women like her, and I love them. O what
a mighty power is with the mother!  For
good or for evil, it must be so.
	Education! Wide as the base of the pyr-
amid which towers to heaven and stands
unshaken for a thousand years, is that which
is built on faith in God. But crumbling and
confounding as the tower of Babel is that
which is erected in unbelief. With the
mother is the responsibility of laying the
foundation of education in the child from
the moment it can begin to think, perhaps
before.
	Yes; it was a small seed that was sown
by my mother, but, had that not been plan-
ted some other would have been. That
which grows first may crowd out the next.
When unbelief grows and grows, it is diffi-
cult to root it out; it spreads, and poisons
as it spreads. As it is I have received the
Gospel; others with larger capacities to re-
ceive intelligence have no room for the
Truth. They may not have had a mother
to inspire them with faith when they were
by her side in childhood.
	This is a great power to wield. It is a
great thing to be a mother, to light the
lamp of life in a child and link it to the
earth for three score years and ten; how
much greater to unite it to the heavens and
to impart a light and life that will never
dim and never die!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MOTHERS, TEACH YOUR DAUGHTERS.

	I am inclined to think we are apt to un-
der-estimate the abilities of the girls of the
present time. If they could have a little
better chance and much more credit for
what they do, we should soon see a great
improvement. There are few, especially
farmer's daughters, but know how to per-
form various kinds of household duties.  If
they do not, the fault is not all their own.
I think girls now-a-days just as ambitious
as they were in our grandmothers' days—
grandmothers' stories to the contrary not-
withstanding.  People are so very forgetful.
There is a time when every child is anxious
to learn about everything, especially what
mother does, and they are too frequently
put off until some other time.
	It requires much patience and not a little
skill to teach new beginners, but it must be
done or they must remain in ignorance, and
when they are grown up bear the blame.
They can't learn just by seeing mother do
the work day after day; they must have
experience to do a piece of work well. If
mother would teach them how to do, then
leave the care to them, let them feel that the
result depended on them, they would make
use of what they had learned and at the
same time take an interest in the work. We
should not expect them to do as well as an
old, experienced hand at first; but praise
them all you can and pass the mistakes by
lightly as possible. It will give them cour-
age to try again. And soon they will take
much of the care off mother's mind, and
be a constant delight to their parents. They
would feel better contented at home, and
save their parents pain and mortification in 
after years when they leave the paternal
roof for other homes, where no mother will


be near to superintend the work or teach
them how to begin.  Domestic economy
must begin at the commencement in order
to prove effectual in all our ways.
			A YOUNG FARMER'S WIFE.
	—In R. N. Y.


THE TRUE RELATION OF THE
			SEXES.

	There can be, then, no real conflict of in-
terest between man and woman, since there
is a mutual dependence upon each other
bringing mutual good. Neither can it be a
misfortune to be a woman, as so many at
the present day would have us believe, al-
though her position may be in some respects
subordinate to that of man.
	In fact the subordination of man to wo-
man, different in kind from its converse, is
equally apparent; both seem to be matters
of consciousness.  It may be readily seen
how, in early times, when muscular strength
and physical power were held in the high-
est esteem, that the position of woman
should have been a subordinate one. Ani-
mal courage, endurance of physical hard-
ships, the strength, cunning, and agility,
which enabled men to cope with wild beasts
and with each other, were the traits of char-
acter most prized, because most conserva-
tive to life in those barbarous times; hence
the idea that, woman's position is naturally
a subordinate one, has acquired the force of
a primal intuition, and might almost be
claimed a "datum of consciousness." But,
as the necessities of existence have been
gradually modified by civilization, both the
character and the degree of her subordina-
tion have notably changed.
	Those qualities, regarded preeminently
feminine, have risen in common estimation
and mere muscular superiority, and even in-
tellectual power, are now put to the test of
comparison with the higher moral qualities.
—From "Woman's Place in Nature," in
Popular Science Monthly for January.


WINTERGREENS.
	The evergreen trees that cover the hills
and sprinkle the rich shades through our
American forests never seem so beautiful as
in the winter, when the ground is bare or
snow-covered and the branches of other
trees are leafless. They relieve the land-
scape of its dreariness, and add an element
of beauty and hope to the otherwise cheer-
less spectacle. There is something very
grand and suggestive in a noble pine or fir
that stands up clothed and courageous in
the midst of wintry desolation, when the
fields are covered with a snowy winding
sheet and the rest of the forests have yield-
ed their foliage to the blasts. They seem
to say to the frost, "We are more than a
match for your rigors;" and to the mourning
world they tell of continuous life and prom-
ised renewal.
	It is delightful to have green things to
look at in the winter. A single plant in a
room gives it a cheery look. There is a
great deal of companionship in a few plants
and flowers in the close apartments of a city
home in the winter, when the sky lowers
and the prospects out of doors are bleak and
forbidding. It is surprising what pleasure
can be got out of a half dozen brown earth-
en pots for three months of the year.
Surely wintergreens are an admirable in-
vention, and whoever is fortunate enough
to have them would thank the inventor in
feeling if not in words.  The eye and the
heart both crave green things in the win-


ter, and it is a suggestive fact that the cold-
er the climate and the longer the period of
snow the more evergreens grow. The sea-
son requires just that contrast of colors, that
offset to its desolateness.
	The wintergreens of life are still more
needed and welcomed at this season. The
cold drives us in on ourselves. It shuts us
up within doors. It forces us back upon
the warm places of the heart. The more
storms and sleet without, the more closely
we nestle together and draw on the beauti-
ful sympathies and charities of human na-
ture. There is a foliage of sociability, a
flowering of kindness and good will, an out-
growth of sympathy and charity which seem
never so lovely as in the winter time, and
are prized and cherished by those who have
them as the costliest exotics of a tropic
clime. The gaiety and gladness and mirth
which spring spontaneously from the best
natures in dull months are wintergreens
that it were far better worth the while to
cultivate than any plants and shrubs that
can be brought from the conservatory. The
one great art in which Americans are too
deficient is that of home-keeping.  We
build fine houses, and fill them with showy
and costly furniture. We spend fortunes
on pictures, upholstery, servants, plate and
other things to set off our circumstances and
adorn our state. But sometimes we go out
of our elegant mansion into some fourth-
story flat and find a little parlor so cosy and
cheery, so bright and hope-hued, when there
is nothing in it to speak but a few cheap ar-
ticles of furniture and a dozen plants and a
canary bird in the window and a baby on
the floor, that we wonder what the charm
consists in and almost wish to exchange
places without boot. It is wintergreens.
It is the art of leafage. It is the graceful
flowering of the heart when the world is
bare and the skies are black. And it is
more of this wintergreen that is wanted to
make our homes beautiful and our lives one
prolonged summer.—"Golden Age."


HOW THEY LOOK.

	Every one has a curiosity to know how
celebrated people look; and so we will des-
cribe a few women prominent as writers or
lecturers.
	Mrs. Stanton is a handsome woman. Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Livermore are both
plain. Marie and Jane Porter were women
of high brows and irregular features, as was
also Miss Sedgwick. Anna Dickenson has
a strong masculine face; Kate Field has a
good-looking, though by no means a pretty
one, and Mrs. Stowe is positively homely.
Alice and Phoebe Cary were both plain in
features, though their sweetness of disposi-
tion added greatly to their personal appear-
ance.  Margaret Fuller had a splendid head,
but her features were irregular, and she
was anything but handsome, though some-
times in a glow of conversation she ap-
peared almost radiant.  Charlotte Bronte
had wonderously beautiful dark brown eyes
and a perfectly shaped head.  She was
small to diminutiveness, and was as simple
in her manners as a child.  Julia Ward
Howe is a fine-looking woman, wearing an
aspect of grace and refinement, with great
force of character in her face and carriage.
Laura Holloway resembles Charlotte Bronte,
both in personal appearance and in the the sad
experience of her young life.  Neither
Mary Booth nor Marian Harlan can lay claim
to handsome faces, though they are splen-
did specimens of cultured women, while
Mary Clemmer Ames is just as pleasing in
features as her writings are graceful and
popular.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1875.


[Column 1]			
			SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.

	Professor Riggs, the Territorial school
Superintendent, says that there are more
than thirty three thousand children in Utah,
of the proper age for attending school......
President Young and company arrived in
this city, from St. George, on the 19th ult.,
in good health.....The Firemen's grand, dress
ball, given on the 22nd ult.—Washington’s
birthday,—was a note worthy affair, not
soon to be forgotten by the participants......
The construction of railroads in Utah is con-
stantly and rapidly increasing, but no credit
mobiliering is expected from the honest and
honorable gentlemen concerned in them.

			LITERARY.

	Darwin has a new book in press, which
treats of the insectivorous and climbing
plants......A new dictionary by Dr. H. Dun-
bar of the Edinburg University is soon to
be circulated......The Millennial Jubilee of
Iceland, has suggested to Rev. P. C. Headly,
the writing of a book entitled "The Island
of Fire, or A Thousand years of the Old
Northmen's Home," which is reported to be
a highly interesting work.

			POLITICAL.

	It is now reported that disturbances have
arisen at Pekin, China, on the question of
the successor to the throne......The country
of Darfur has been annexed to Egypt......
The Senate has rejected the Reciprocity
Treaty with Canada.......In the Pennsylvania
Legislature, the Committee on Vice and
Immorality report in favor of the repeal of
local option......The Ways and Means Com-
mittee in the House of Representatives,
have rejected in full, the proposition for a
restoration of the duties on tea and coffee
......Seven States, California, Connecticut,
Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, New Hamp-
shire and Oregon hold no Legislatures this
winter. The Legislatures of the other
thirty States are now in session......The in-
surgents in Peru lately tried to take the city
Arequipa, but were defeated......In the
French Assembly, a bill for the creation of
a senate has passed......In the Maine Sen-
ate, Rev. Mrs. Hanes lately officiated as
Chaplain, being the first woman who has
ever acted in that capacity in the Legisla-
ture.

			PERSONAL.

	Spurgeon refuses to come to America for
the purpose of lecturing......Gilmore is giv-
ing concerts in Boston......Clara Morris is in
San Francisco......Sir Edward Thornton
lately gave a dinner in the new English Le-
gation building at Washington......Isabella
Wallace, a descendent of Sir William Wal-
lace, died recently in England, at the age of
one hundred and two years......Kate Field
is pronounced a failure on the stage, but still
persists in trying to become an actress......
Bayard Taylor is engaged to lecture at Cor-
nell University, New York, next summer
......Thomas O. Blair, of Newcastle, Indiana,
is a young naturalist who advertises for cor-
respondents among the young naturalists of
the country......Senator Sargent of Califor-
nia has been ill......A ten year old girl has
been kidnapped from the Convent school in
New York......Nelse Seymour is dead. He
was a favorite minstrel in London, known
as the "American comedian"......M. Ecttick,
a colored man of Brooklyn, died recently of
hydrophobia.

			INDUSTRIAL.

	Chicago is to have a new Court House and
City Hall......The Astor house of New York
is closed for repairs......Massachusetts cot-
ton mills have enforced a reduction of 10

[Column 3]
per cent. on wages......Workmen on the
Hudson river, employed by ice companies,
have struck against the reduction of wages
......In New York, the boot and shoe busi-
ness is beginning to increase......At Balti-
more, greater activity and energy is exhibi-
ted than for several months past......The
"sovereigns of industry"—the Grangers are
increasing rapidly, especially in New Eng-
land......A thirty-five ton engine known as
the "Sacoi," has recently been completed by
the Boston and Maine Railroad companies
......A Grange warehouse is to be built at
Van Wert, Ohio, to cost $20,000

			CASUAL.

	Many injuries to sailing craft were re-
cently occasioned by a terrific gale accompa-
nied by storms of rain, on the British 
coast......There has been a great flood in the
river Seine; the water has been so high at
Paris that steamers could not pass under the 
bridges......The Railroad bridge on the Sus-
quehanna has been burned......Losses by fire
in New England during the month of Jan-
uary, amounted to $1,023,457.


[Column 1]
		PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	It is estimated by the coroner of London,
that in that great city alone, TWELVE THOU-
SAND MOTHERS annually, murder their babies
aftertheirbirth. In New York, it is calculated
that the fetus and child murders are DOUBLE
that number.
	Much as the Mormon system of marriage is
talked about in the outside world, ignorant and
degraded as its women adherents are consider-
ed, we have yet to learn of the first instance of
such a crime having been committed by a
Latter-day Saint mother.
	The highest, holsest ambition of the true
Mormon mother is to keep her children in
purity and health, making them in every pos-
sible respect superior to herself. Whether a
woman be a first or plural wife matters not in
regard to these morthy aspirations, her love for
the precious charge committed to her care by
a merciful God is ever the same.
	Compare the difference between this fact and
the condition of communities such as people
ondon and New York, O! ye wise(?) men, ye
saintly, virtuous(?) women who have such a
holy horror of polygamic or celestial marriage!
And let common sense instead of prejudice—
natural, womanly instinct instead of sickly
spleen answer for you, which state of society
can be justly looked upon as most enobling and
exalting not only to woman but to the whole
human race.
	A lady, who was among the first to accept
the doctrine of celestial marriage as revealed
to Joseph Smith, and who has been in plural-
ity for upwards of thirty years, testifies that
had she understood the principle when she

[Column 2]
first received it as a message from God, as she
now does, she would have hailed it with great
delight and joy. But it was not generally giv-
en to the fathers and mothers of the young
people in Zion to comprehend the necessity of
adopting such a system of marriage, when it
was first introduced into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even as Abra-
ham went forth to sacrifice his son, so they
were required to observe the law and keep the
commandments of God, without fore knowl-
edge. Whereas the present condition of the
world compaerd with the condition of the
true Latter-day Saints, is sufficient evidence to
a mind enlightened with any degree of the
spirit of God upon the subject, of the great
good which has been and will be done through
the medium of this system of plural marriage.
And also of the great necessity for its being ad-
mitted as a tenet of the gospel of Christ when
His church was established in these latter
days.
	These truths are patent to the minds of many
young men and women connected with the
Church; and our exhortations to such friends
are, that they will give due consideration there-
unto.
	Young wives and maidens—young brethren
too—shall we not prove to our God, ourselves
and the world that our parents have not failed
in their efforts to instill into our hearts the
eternal principles of truth which lead to ever-
lasting life and happiness? If we have seen
our parents suffer in consequence  of not un-
derstanding the correct ways of life, let us not
condemn any true principle on that account;
neither doubt the pure motives of either par-
ent, as some sons and daughters have done,
while fully aware that both are and ever have
been desirous of doing the will of God. But
we may profit by the experience through
which we have seen them pass, as well as by
their teachings and testimonies to us concern-
ing the words and works of our Heavenly Fa-
ther. We can observe wherein they have fal-
len short at times through want of knowledge;
and while humbly blessing them for their kind
teaching, and rendering all due respect, we
should look upon their mistakes as timely
warnings for us. Where they have stumbled,
they have left way-marks for our guidance,
which, if we heed while passing on in life,
will enable us to shun many dangerous places,
into which we might otherwise stray blindly
as they have done. But we must walk in all
humility and gentleness, and ever beware, that
we make not, ourselves, the grand mistake
of all, in presuming that we may benefit our-
selves, and escape the ills, the trials and sacri-
fices which our parents have known, by forsak-
ing the ways of eternal life and light for things
less holy. We must stand bravely by the prin-
ciples of truth and righteousness for which our
parents have endured so many privations and
hardships. And where sons see that their fa-
thers have made missteps and brought unnec-
essary afflictions on their families, let them
seek for wisdom to avoid like errors, but suffer
not their lips to utter or their hearts to feel
ought against any sacred law pertaining to the
Gospel. Daughters who have the experience
of their mothers, as well as the additional
light which has been poured forth to aid them,
should be able to live in accordance with the
requirements of the Gospel without enduring
those heart pangs to which their mothers have
been subjected most frequently through a lack
of wisdom and light concerning the principles
which they knew to be true but had not
learned to practice in perfection.
	Still, the young in Zion, even those who
have been born in the priesthood, need not


think to escape all trials and hardships; for
"there is no royal road to learning;"—this rule
applies to religious as well as intellectual edu-
cation—neither are blessings promised save
through sacrifice.
	Neither the Saints nor the children of the
Saints are yet perfect; and until they are suffi-
ciently cleansed and purified, until they are
worthy to dwell in the presence of the holy
angels and their Lord and Savior for which
they pray, the process of purification will not
be stopped. But those who hold to the faith
are constantly improving. The present gener-
ation is becoming qualified for the accom-
plishment of greater things than have been
achieved by the former; and the next will be
still more improved; by and by we shall have
arrived at that state of perfection which every
good Latter-day Saint is striving to reach.
May we not falter by the way and may God
help us.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LET RIGHTEOUSNESS RULE.

	In casting our thoughts to the grand consti-
tution that has been framed and accepted as
a guiding angel to a nobel people's prosperity
and happiness, we cannot but deplore the re-
cent impolicy of those whose duties were to
apply each wise principle of our government
so that every true man and woman on the
broad surface of this land might exclaim "It
is just. Our rights are recognized; our peace
secured." But too truly the reverse do we see.
National peace is fast becoming a theme only
to be remembered. Civil strife is the gossip of
the hour. Knavish politicians often rule the
senate, and personal merit likewise disregard-
ed. To-day precious human liberty is hanging
on a thread.
	How ardent were the anticipations of our
forefathers when they had securely planted the
seeds of freedom's progress on this fertile soil.
The confusion of the times is almost loud
enough to recall them from their quiet slum-
bers and excite them to words of stern rebuke.
What has become of the idea "Brotherhood,"
that once swelled the bosoms of America's
children.
	Learning and science have failed to make us
kind, just, equal. A train, and a long train too,
of unscrupulous office holders on one side, and
an ignored, unlettered, oppressed populace on
the other, is dividing the nation asunder.
Every heart longs for independence, and we
have a right to it. Stifle the flame of true am-
bition in the breast, and how much courage is
there left? God made us all, and he never in-
tended for one human being to trample on an-
other. The earth is rich enough to prosper all
her children, but a few are wrapped in luxury,
and the many go uncomforted. Human laws
humanly exercised, will make a nation politi-
cally rich, contented and heroic. When our
government feels to accord to its every son and
daughter their perfect and equal rights; when
sterling worth, instead of inglorious gold, takes
the conspicuous chair of influence; when re-
wards are meted out for the good that is actu-
ally done; when men's brains are more solid
than their purses; then will the Constitution
of our country be made subservient to the good
it was intended.					KENT.


COOKING.

	No branch of practical education is of great-
er importance than that of cooking and pre-
paring food. Upon this subject, the sentiments
of a highly educated English lady who is also
an excellent cook, are in substance, "Alas!
how these men do err, when they consider the
kitchen the only proper place for girls after


they have learned to read and write. Cooking
belongs to the sciences. Our girls who are ex-
pected to, at least take the oversight of the du-
ties of housewives, if not to perform the actual
labor, should study chemistry, physiology &c.
And when they have thus learned how to prop-
erly compound the proper materials for a loaf
of bread, cheerfully will they perform the task.
But how can it be expected that a woman who
is ignorant of these first principles shall cook
intelligently."
	It is doubtless the case that sickness occas-
ioned by the partaking of food is often the re-
sult of bad cooking and a want of knowledge
how to prepare certain kinds of victuals. And
that good articles are condemned as unwhole-
some, while the fault is occasioned entirely
through injudicious management. Besides
this, great waste is often engendered through
ignorance, even where extravagance is not
intended.
	If some  of our intelligent mothers, who
have through years of experience, observation
and study gained a correct understanding of
these things for themselves, would establish
schools in which the girls might be taught the
proper method of housekeeping in its various
branches, much time and expense as well as
useless anxiety and perhaps ill temper might
thus be saved in future homes.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER F. A. Mitchell and family recently re-
turned to their home in this city, from the
Sandwich Islands. Many friends warmly wel-
come them and are pleased to find them all in
good health.
	THE CHURCH Emigration fares for this sea-
son, the agent, C. W. Staines reports, will be
fifty-one dollars for each adult from New York
to Ogden, and about forty-three dollars from
Chicago to Ogden.
	BISHOP M. D. Hammond, of Providence,
who recently favored us with a call, says that
in Cache Valley the winter has been an unsu-
ally pleasant one. There has been excellent
sleighriding nearly all winter, without so much
snow as is common to that region, nor exces-
sive cold weather. The people of Providence
under the auspices of the United Order, have
purchased and own a good saw-mill, and intend
making a spcialty of the lumber business.
	THE BEST occasion for meeting friends and
looking upon familiar faces which we have
witnessed for a long time was at the Theatre
on the evening of the 22nd ult. The Firemen's
ball brought together representatives from all
parts of this city, as well as some from other
localities. The remark was frequently heard,
"Why everybody's here!" as friends after
friends were greeted. And "everybody" ap-
peared perfectly satisfied with the entire suc-
cess which accompanied the whole affair.
	GOVERNOR AXTELL, in a short, unpremedita-
ted speech before the people of Ogden, while
on a private visit to a friend of that city, ad-
vanced some ideas and opinions which might
be taken as a key to a noble and manly char-
acter. Instead of gentlemen and ladies, he pre-
ferred to address the citizens of Ogden as "men
women and children, because these are the
dearest words." He had always believed there
was no real antagonism between labor and
capital." For he looked "upon labor as the
locomotive and capital the force that puts it in
motion." He came to Utah to govern the
whole people not a section. He evinced him-
self to be not in the least afraid of criticism,
and said, "Men of character care not for criti-


cism favorable or unfavorable."  Many other
fine points occurred in the speech which met
with hearty and well deserved applause. 
	MANY NATIVE plants have been discovered
in the southern portion of this Territory; which
are described by Mr. Joseph E. Johnson of St.
George, as being new and beautiful.  He offers
to fill cash orders for plants and seeds of the
same, and in some cases will exchange for
greenhouse and garden plants.  People who are
actively interested in floral or botanical pur-
suits may increase the variety of their plants,
and will also find it advantageous in other re-
spects to communicate with Mr. Johnson up-
on this subject.  It is at least, worth while to
learn what may be produced within this
mountainous region before sending East for
flower seeds, &c.


FLOWERS.
      WE make our best use of this world when
we regard it as the basis from which to sur-
vey the other.
	HEARTS have windows. They should be
kept open at all times that the glad sunshine
of all that is true and beautiful in this life
may enter and abide therein.
	I MAY be ever so rich, ever so finely edu-
cated, ever so handsome, ever so much ad-
mired, and yet the day is coming when I
shall die. What then will these profit me?
	TERTULLIAN saith, "If thou endurest
wrong for Christ's sake, He is a Revenger;
if sorrow, He is a Comforter; if sickness,
He is a Physician; if loss, He is a Restorer;
if life, he is a Reviver.
	IT is not with spiritual rose-bushes as
with material ones; in the latter, the thorns
remain and the roses pass away; in the for-
mer, the thorns pass away and the roses
stay.—St. Francis de Sales.
	ONE cannot enough wonder and be thank-
ful to Providence that, from time to time,
he places in the spirit of a whole people, or
of individuals, those truly God-like thoughts
on which our inner being reposes.—Hum-
bolt.


THE SNOW-PLANT OF THE SIERRAS.

	"One of the grandest objects," says the
San Francisco  "Bulletin," which meets the
eye of the traveler in our mountains is the
exquisite plant—the snow-plant of the Sier
ras—the “Sarcodes sanguinea” of John Tor-
rey, the botanist. It is an inhabitant only
of the high Sierras, being rarely found be-
low an altitude of 4,000 feet and its glorious
crimson spike of flowers may be seen early
in May, forcing itself through the snows
which at that period cling about the sides of
our pine forests.
	"The portion of the plant which is visible
above the soil is a bright, rosy, crimson in
color, and presents the very strongest con-
trast to the dark green of the pines and
shimmer of the snow. Its root is succulent,
thick, and abundantly free from moisture,
attaching itself to the roots of other plants,
principally to the species of the pine family.
Hence it is among those curious members
of the vegetable world which are known to
the botanists as parasites.
	"The deer are extremely fond of it, and
it is not an uncommon circumstance to find
a number of these plants uprooted and rob-
bed of a portion of their underground growth
by these animals. It belongs to the natural
order "Orbanchacea," and is met with
through the whole Sierra region, becoming
rarer as we approach the South."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONEN
			YEARNINGS.

	The years go by, the years go by,
	I see them pass without a sigh.
	For thou, my love, art cold and dead,
	The earth heaped o'er thy bright young head.
	What now is all this world to me
	But tasteless, dull monotony?
	
	The years pass on, the years pass on,
	And soon—full soon they will be gone.
	I have no time or tears to weep,
	So swiftly by the moments sweep;
	But haste to fill life's fleeting hours
	With duty's pale yet fragrant flowers.

	My love, I soon shall reach the strand—
	I almost see thy beckoning hand;—
	Though wild and dark, life's water's roar,
	Yet swift and soon, they waft me o'er.
	I dare not think upon the peace
	That comes when all these waitings cease;
	When thou my true, true heart shall know
	And doubt no more as years ago.

									A. E. T.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

     	Milk Stains.—Milk stains on serge dresses may
be removed by steeping the part in warm water.
	Jelly Cake—One cup butter, 1 cup sugar—4
eggs—11 cups flour—beat the eggs separately. 
	To Make Muffins.—Two eggs, two quarts of
flour, a pint of sweet milk, one pound of butter,
a gill of yeast, a teaspoonful of salt. 
	To Make Grandmother’s Gingerbread—Cup
and a half molasses, cup of rich sour cream, tea-
spoonful saleratus, teaspoonful of ginger; mix a 
little stiff.
	Clove Cake.—One cup molasses—1 cup sugar—
1 cup butter—1 cup buttermilk—3 eggs—3 cups
flour—1 tablespoon cloves—l of cinnamon—l tea-
spoon saleratus in milk—raisins. 
	Apple Sauce.—Two quarts of water, a pint of
molasses, a root of ginger, and boil altogether
twenty minutes; put in while boiling one peck of
pared, cored and quartered apples.  Stew till ten-
der. 
	Waffles.—One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of  soda, four eggs, a piece
of butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt.
Bake in waffle irons.  Sour cream and less butter
improves them. 
	Colors to Harmonize with Mahogany.—The
American Artisan says "mahogany must not be as-
sociated with red, scarlet or orange, otherwise its
effect is destroyed.  It harmonizes with almost
every other tint that is used in upholstery."
	Beef Stew.—Six pounds of the flank of beef,
cut in small pieces; boil in two quarts of water
until tender.  Then put in a dozen potatoes, a
dozen onions, and four turnips; cover it so that the
steam shall not escape; salt and pepper to taste. 
	Grape Jam.—Boil the Grapes in just water
enough to make them tender, strain them through
a colander, then in  one pound of pulp put one
pound of sugar; boil this half an hour; the com-
mon wild grape makes a nice jam. 
	Cream Cake.—Beat two eggs with one cup of
sugar, add one cup of thin cream, a teaspoonful of
salcratus and one of salt; flavor with nutmeg and
lemon or other spice, mix as stiff as will pour into
pans. A handful of currants improves it. Try
it. 
	Lamb Stew.—Take half a shoulder of lamb,
boil it in two quarts of water two hours.  Then
put in potatoes, onions if desired, and turnips cut in
quarters; two teaspoonfuls of salt and pepper to
taste.  Ten minutes before serving put in the
dumplings. 
 	Cream Pie. —One and a half cups of sugar,
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two

[Column 2]
tablespoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of
saleratus. Cream for inside, one pint of milk,
one-half cup of sugar, a little butter and salt, two
tablespoonfuls of flour (or corn starch), Flavor
with lemon. (Make two pies). Stir into the
milk while boiling till sufficiently thick.
	Taking Care of Boots.—One who has experi-
ence is convinced that a coat of gum copal varnish
applied to the soles of boots and shoes, and repeat-
ed as it dries, until the pores are filled and the
surface shines like polished mahogany, will make
the soles waterproof, and also cause them to last
three times as long as ordinary soles.
 	Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice with
a very little milk over the fire then mix fruit of any
kind with it, currants, goosberries scalded, pared and
quartered apples, raisins, or black currants, and
still better, red currant jelly, with one egg to bind
the rice; boil it well, and serve with powdered cin-
namon and sugar.
	Oatmeal Pancakes.—Stir into four cupsful of
cold water a teaspoonful of salt, a large handful of
graham flour and oatmeal till you have a thin bat-
ter.  Bake at once on a very hot griddle; the Gra-
ham flour improves the pancakes, as they are
more easily turned and not quite so dry as when
oatmeal only is used.  When preferred, one cup of
water can be left out, using instead of it a cupful
of buttermilk and a teaspoonful of soda. 
	Shin of Beef Soup.—Have the shin well
cracked up; put it to boil in five or six quarts of
water: boil it five or six hours; skim it very often.
Cut up very fine, half a white cabbage; chop two
turnips and three onions if desired; put them all
into the soup with pepper and salt, and boil it two
hours; take the bone and gristle out before serving.
If you have some raised dough, make up a dozen
balls, the size of a nutmeg, drop them into the
soup and let them boil half an hour.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	CURE FOR NEURALGIA.—Take potatoes
and slice them thin as you can and bind
them on where the pain is and it will re-
lieve it in a few hours.  Keep putting on
until a cure is effected, which will be in
two or three applications.—Cor. Cincinnatti
Times.
	DIPHTHERIA has been very prevalent in
Australia, and one of the most successful
remedies is said to have been a few drops
of sulphuric acid in a tumblerful of water.
The result of this mixture is said to be a
coagulation of the diphtheritic membrane
and its ready removal by coughing.
	BURNS.—The white of an egg has proved
of late the most efficacious remedy for burns.
Seven or eight successive applications of
this substance soothe pain, and effectually
exclude the burn from the air.  This simple
remedy seems to be preferable to collodion
or even cotton.
	CURE FOR PROUD FLESH.—When alum
and burnt shoe soles will not touch it, get
black haw roots; scrape the outside bark off,
then peel the inside and scrape all the in-
side off, and dry and powder it fine.  Now
wash the sore with castile soap suds, and
put the powder in upon the proud flesh. 
	GRUEL.—Several articles may be used,
but wheat meal is preferable. Have the
water boiling. Make a paste of the meal
and cold water, and stir in slowly.  It must
not stop boiling for a moment; if it does it
will have a raw taste, which you cannot
remedy by cooking for hours.
	PATENT MEDICINES.—So long as medi-
cines are held before the people as the es-
sential means of curing the sick, so long
will patent medicines be used.  Physicians

[Column 2]
may resolve, and re-resolve, discuss and
preach, but it will do little good.  Intelli-
gent as well as ignorant buy patent medi-
cines.  The only cure is in spreading the
belief that medicines are harmful rather
than beneficial.—"Herald of Health."
	THE SECRET OF HEALTH.—First—Keep
cool.  Second—Eat regularly and slowly.
Third—Maintain regular bodily habits.
Fourth—Take early and light suppers.  Fifth
—Keep a clean skin.  Sixth—Get plenty of
sleep at night.  Seventh—Keep cheerful
and respectable company.  Eighth—Keep
out of debt.  Ninth—Don't set your mind
on things you don't need.—Boston Tran-
script.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—Ten cents' worth of
muriatic acid and acid of niter will take out
any number of corns and warts.  Scrape
around the corn and put the acid around it
a few times; and then you can take the
point of a knife, or even a pin, and lift it
out at the root. Put a little grease in it
when it is removed.
		A greater boon than fame or wealth,
		Is life's chief blessing, perfect health.
		Yet many have it not, because
		They've violated Nature's laws.
	AFTER DINNER NAPS.—Many persons
are in the habit of sleeping for half an hour
or an hour immediately after dinner.  Ten
minutes' sleep before dinner is worth more
than an hour after.  It rests and refreshes
and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion.  If sleep is taken after dinner it should
be in the sitting posture, as the horizontal
position is unfavorable to healthful diges-
tion. Let those who need rest and sleep
during the day take it before dinner instead
of after, and they will soon find that they
will feel better and that their digestion will
be improved thereby.
	TONICS FOR WOMEN.—Nothing makes a
woman age more rapidly than over-work—
the reason, probably, that American women
fade so soon.  Sunshine, music, work and
sleep are the greatest medicines for women,
who need more sleep than men.  Their
nerves are more sensitive and they are not
so strong, and exhaustion from labor or
pleasure takes place sooner with them than
men.  Never permit yourself to be roused
out of a deep sleep in the morning.  In
fact, one should never be awakened.  The
body rouses of itself when its demands are
satisfied.  Take a warm bath occasionally
before going to bed—at least once a week.
	AIR THE SPARE BEDS.—Here is a hint
for housekeepers, and a very important one.
Merely covering up a bed with blankets and
counterpanes will no more protect it  from
dampness or keep it dry than a pane of
glass will keep  out  light.  The atmospheric
moisture will penetrate all woven fabrics.
Hence, the importance of keeping the beds
in spare rooms regularly aired.  Many a
dear friend or welcome visitor has been
sent to an untimely grave or afflicted with
disease, by being put into a bed which had
been permitted to stand unoccupied.  Keep
the spare beds, when not in use, free from
all covering but a light spread.


IT is a fact that God's care is more evi-
dent in some instances than in others to
the dim and often bewildered vision of hu-
manity. Upon such instances men seize,
and call them Providences. It is well that
they can; but it would be gloriously better
if they could believe that the whole matter
is one grand Providence.—George Macdon-
ald.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HINTS ABOUT CHILDREN.
	CHILDREN'S NAPS.—When a child is old
enough it will usually cease to want a mid-
day nap. There is no especial age. Some
children require it longer than others. If it
interferes with good night sleep, then it is
time to break it up. There is no harm in
taking it after dinner.
	CHILDREN AND SUNSHINE.—Children
need sunshine quite as much as flowers do.
Half an hour is not enough. Several hours
are required. The most beautiful flowers
that ever studded a meadow could not be
made half so beautiful without days and
days of the glad light that streams through
space. Light for children. Sunshine for
the little elves that gladden this otherwise
gloomy earth, deal it out in generous full-
ness to them. Let the nursery be in the
sunshine. Better plant roses on the dark
side of an iceberg than rear babies and chil-
dren in rooms and alleys stinted of the light
that makes life.
	FRIGHTENING CHILDREN.—Nothing can
be worse for a child than to frighten it. The
effect of the scare is slow to recover from;
it remains sometimes until maturity, as is
shown by many instances of morbid sensi-
tiveness and excessive nervousness.
	Not unfrequently, fear is employed as a
means of discipline. Children are controlled
by being led to believe that something ter-
rible will happen to them; are punished by
being shut up in dark rooms, or by being
put in places they stand in dread of. No
one, without vivid memory of his own
childhood, without vivd memory of his own
childhood, can comprehend how entirely
cruel such things are. We have often heard
grown people tell of the suffering they have
endured as children, under like circumstan-
ces, and recount the irreparable injury which
they are sure they then received. No pa-
rent, no nurse, capable of alarming the
young, is fitted for her position. Children,
as near as possible, should be trained not to
know the sense of fear which, above every-
thing else is to be feared in their education
both early and late.
	DEAR SISTER RICHARDS.—Because of dis-
advantages we have not had a woman's
meeting in five months. So, like food to
one who is very hungry, the EXPONENT
comes to me. I hail it as the true woman's
advocate against slander. I learn from it
the spirit of the times, and am deeply in-
terested with its instructions on the rearing
of children, a subject sublime. After rear-
ing—in connection with my husband—a
large family of children, I can but glance at
the wisdom required for the task. Yet,
from experience, I think it wisdom to excite
the pride of a child by praising him or her
for truthfulness, little deeds of kindness,
etc. Also that punishment for a fault should
be lessend where truthfulness appears in fa-
vor of the child. Never exhibit a doubt of
the aptness of a child in learning, even if
it is stupid. Nor should we exhibit unbe-
lief when told of a wrong act, done by our
child, but teach it the principle of restora-
tion merited by guilt.
	A little son once said, "Ma, please give
me a pane of glass for Mrs. S—. I broke
one for her last night when we were play-
ing blind man's buff." Indulgence excited
his pride, and away he ran with the glass;
after which, the lady came to pay for it,
saying "It was not your boy who broke the
window, but the one he was in pursuit of."
Yet the little fellow felt that he had the
confidence of the lady, and all was right.
	Oxford, Feb.,1875.	M. A. BOICE.


POST-MORTEM LOVE.

	Why is it that so many people keep all
their pleasant thoughts and kind words
about a man, bottled and sealed up until he
is dead, when they come and break the bot-
tle over his coffin, and bathe his shroud in
fragrance? Many a man goes through life
with scarcely one bright, cheering, encour-
aging, helpful word. He toils hard and in
humble obscurity. He gives out his life
freely and unstintedly for others. I remem-
ber such a man. He was not brilliant; he
was not great; but he was faithful. He had
many things to discourage him. Troubles
thickened about his life.  He was misrepre-
sented and misunderstood. Everybody be-
lieved that he was a good man, but no one
ever said a kind or pleasant thing to him.
He never heard a compliment, scarcely
ever a good wish. No one ever took any
pains to encourage him, to strengthen his
feeble knees, to lighten his burdens, or to
lift up his heart by a gentle deed of love,
or by a cheerful word. He was neglected.
Unkind things were often said of him.
	I stood at his coffin, and then there were
many tongues to speak his praise. There
was not a breath of aspersion in  the air.
Men spoke of self-denials—of his work
among the poor, of his good qualities, of his
quietness, of his modesty, his humility, his
pureness of heart, his faith and prayer.
There were many who spoke indignantly of
the charges  that falsehood had forged
against him in past years and of the treat-
ment he had receieved. There were enough
kind words said during the two or three
days that he lay in the coffin, and while the
company stood around his open grave, to
have blest him and made him happy all his
fifty years, and to have thrown sweetness
and joy about his soul during all his pained
and weary journey. There was enough sun-
shine wasted about the black coffin and
dark grave to have made his whole life-
path bright as clearest day. But his ears
were closed then, and he could not hear a
word that was spoken. His heart was still
then, and could not be thrilled by the great-
ful sounds. He cared nothing for the sweet
flowers that were piled upon his coffin. The
love blossomed out too late. The kindness
came when the life could not receive its
blessings.
	But meantime there is a great host of
weary men and women toiling through life
towards the grave, who need cheering
words and helping ministries. The in-
cense is gathering to scatter about their cof-
fins; but why should it not be scattered in
their paths to-day? The kind words are
lying in men's hearts and trembling on their
tongues, which will be spoken by-and-by
when these weary ones are sleeping; but
why should they not be spoken now, when
they need them so much, and when their
accents would be so pleasing and grateful?
	It costs but little to give men a deal of
joy and help. One brought a bunch of flow-
ers to my table, and for a whole week they
filled my room with fragrance. One wrote
me a cheering letter, breathing a spirit of
gratitude and love. It came when I was
weary and depressed, and was like a meal
prepared by the angel for the old prophet.
I went on in its blessed strength for many
days. One met me on the street and spoke
an encouraging word and  grasped me
warmly by the hand, and for hours I felt
that warm grasp and heard that word echo-
ing through my soul. A little child may
brighten scores of lives every day.  There
is not one of us who may not gladden and
strengthen many a heart between every

[Column 2
rising and setting sun. Why should we
not live to bless the living, to cheer the dis-
heartened, and to sweeten cups that are
bitter, to hold up the hands that hang down
to comfort those that mourn, to bear joy in-
to joyless homes? Kind words will not
spoil a man. If a sermon helps you, it will
do the preacher no harm to tell him so. If 
the editor writes an article that does you
good, he can write a still better one if you
send him a word of thanks. If a book
blesses you, do you not owe it to the author
to write a grateful acknowledgement? If
you know a weary or neglected one, would
it not be Christlike work to seek every op-
portunity to brighten and to bless that life?
Do not wait till the eyes are closed, the ear
deaf, and the heart stilled. Do it now.
Post-mortem kindesses do not cheer. Flow-
ers on the coffin cast no fragrance back over
the weary days—Rev. J. B. Miller, in S.
S. Times.


FLOWERS AS DISINFECTANTS.

	A writer in Saturday Review states that:
"Professor Mantegazza has discovered that
ozone is developed by certain odorous flow-
ers. A writer in nature states that strong-
smelling vegetables, essences such as mint,
cloves, lavender, lemon and cherry laurel
develop a very large quantity of ozone when
in contact with atmospheric oxygen in light.
Flowers destitute of perfume do not devel-
op it, and generally the amount of ozone
seems to be in proportion to the strength
emanated. Prof. Mantagazza recommends
that in marshy districts, and places infested
with noxious exhalations, strong-smelling,
flowers should be placed around the house,
in order that the ozone emitted from them
may exert its oxidizing influence. So
pleasant a plan for making a malarious dis-
trict salubrious only requires to be known to
be put into practice"—For a long time we
have been made acquainted with the fact
that sunflowers are of value as disinfectants,
the reason of this has not even yet been
fully determined. It does not follow because
flowers are beneficial in a sanatary sense
round out houses that they are so in our
houses. Plants at night give off noxious
exhalations, so do flowers. It may be ta-
ken as a rule nothing like fresh air with-
out any odor whatever. It is without doubt
true that perfume from flowers produces
that change in oxygen which converts it
into ozone. Ozone is produced in many ways
by natural processes so as to purify the air.


A GOOD WATCH.

	In repairing the house of Mrs. Wrisley,
wrecked by the Mill River flood, a little be-
low Haydenville, recently, her gold watch
and chain were fouud just under the floor,
hanging to a piece of board. The house was
upset by the flood, and the watch had stop-
ped at the time the flood came along. When
shaken it had commenced running again,
apparently as good as ever. This watch
was once stolen, for which offence a man
was convicted and is now serving out his
sentence.


BARNUM'S Great Roman Hippodrome will
close soon to give the performers and ani-
mals time to recruit for the summer travel-
ing campaign. The establishment will trav-
el by rail, using 125 cars, and will exhibit
in tents 800 feet long. It will embrace 600
men, women, and children, 800 horses and
ponies, beside elephants, camels, buffaloes,
&c. How is that for stupendousness?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WISDOM is oftentimes nearer when we
stoop than when we soar.
	THE best "vegetable pill" ever made is
an apple dumpling.
	MAKE the expenses less than the income,
and the road to competency, if not to wealth,
is as plain as the road to mill.
	EXPERIENCE is a good schoolmaster,
though often pretty severe; and there is
little danger of our forgetting the lessons
he teaches us.
	SINCE the high hats for ladies came into
fashion, a flying trapeze performance is the
only thing that can be seen at a theatre
without hindrance.
	MISS Anna Dickenson in studying for the
stage, works bravely, and will make her
debut probably as Joan of Arc—a character
for which she has the greatest admiration.
	MRS. Wm. Pascoe, of Dodgeville, Wis.,
one day recently, dressed a chicken that
had three well developed, full sized hearts,
all united by a ligament. A very hearty
fowl.
	A UNIVERSITY student broke through the
ice at lake Monana, the other day, when the
water was only four feet deep. When he
was hauled out upon the ice he whispered,
"Boys, I don't care for myself, but I'm en-
gaged."
	THE effects of Dime Novel literature, are
well illustrated in the case of Pomroy, the
boy-murderer of Massachusetts, who con-
fesses that his thirst for blood was acquired
by reading Indian stories.
	"NEVER sign a paper until you know
what it contains," was the advice given by
a father to his little son who had been plac-
ing both his own and his father's signature
to an article, the contents of which he knew
nothing, but signed because a good man
asked him to
	A COUNTEFEIT currenct plate on the Am-
hurst bank has been forwarded to the Uni-
ted States Secret Service Division by the
chief operative of the New England De-
partment. Owing to its being nearly a
century old, it is considered a great relic by
the Treasury Department.
	A GENTLEMAN, while walking in his gar-
den, caught his gardener asleep under a
tree. He scolded him soundly for his lazi-
ness, and ended by telling him such a slug-
gard was not worthy to enjoy the light of
the sun. "It was that reason exactly," said
the gardener, "that I crept up into the
shade."
	INFINITE toil would not enable us to
sweep a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it altogether. So it is with
our moral improvement; we wrestle fiercely
with a vicious habit, which would have no
hold upon us if we ascended into a higher
moral atmosphere.
	DR. Albert Lull, of Nashua, recently lost
his port-monnaie, and made the discovery
while sitting in the house. He had been at
work in the garden, and thought he might
have lost it there. Stating as much to his
black and tan dog, he directed him to go
for it. The dog at once left the room and
soon returned with the missing pocket-book.
On another occasion this dog found a twen-
ty-five cent scip in the street, and on his
own accord he picked it up and carried it to
his master. Although he has had no in-
structions in finance, he appears clearly to
understand the value of money.—Telegraph.


THEODORE THOMAS AND THE
			PUBLIC TALKER.

	We have spoken of Thomas' stern gov-
ernment of his orchestra. He plays the
despot sometimes with the public also, for
he not only teaches his audience what to
like, but he teaches them now and then how
to behave.  We might fill a page with sto-
ries of his amusing encounters with that
pest of the concert-room, the Public Talker.
At the Symphony Concerts he refuses to go
on with the performance while there is any
disturbance in the hall.  At the Summer
Garden there is more difficulty.  Conversa-
tion cannot be prohibited in such a place,
but when it passes reasonable bounds Thom-
as stops the music, and says, in his quiet
way, "When the ladies and gentlemen have
done talking we will go on with the concert"
—a remark which is always followed by a
hearty outburst of applause.  On one occa-
sion a party in the front seats distinguished
themselves by unusually loud chatting and
laughter during a performance of the Mid-
summer Night's Dream Overture.  The
conductor gave a signal, and suddenly into
the midst of Mendelssohn's soft and dreamy
strains broke the loud roll of the drum.
The audience started with surprise,--all
but the talkers, who continued their conver-
sation, unconscious that the eyes of the
whole house were now fixed on them.
They only raised their voices a little and
still the rattle of the drum went on.  It was
not until the orchestra shook with laughter,
and the delighted audience began to ap-
plaud, that the culprits awoke to the situa-
tion.—J. R. G. Hassard; Scribner for Feb-
ruary.


AN ANCIENT RELIC.

	Recently, at Rockford, Ill. a party of gentle-
men interested in the early history of America,
made an important discovery relating to the works
of the Mound Builders, the remains of which are
so abundant in the Mississippi Valley. Work was
commenced on a large mound about 32 feet in di-
ameter, and 8 feet in length. After four hours'
work in the heat and sun, the company were re-
warded by finding a smoothly-polished gympsum
tablet, covered on one side with very mysterious
characters, which were and still are as unintelligi-
ble to all the members of the party as Sancrit or
Lybian. The tablet is two inches wide, three and
one-fourth inches long, and one-fourth of an inch
thick. At the centre of the top is a curiously
wrought face, surrounded by what appears to be
rays of light; beneath, and running nearly to the
bottom, is an upright bar, supported by a cross-
bar; at the left upper corner is the form of a
coiled serpent; beneath this is a triangle, another
serpent, a lizard, and what appears to be a burning
taper. These figures stand in a line, one above
the other. In the right hand upper corner is a
character resembling the letter Z, and beneath this
one resemblins the letter U; next a dagger-shaped
character, under which is a fishes head; next an
elongation circular character, with a dot in the
center, and a continued stroke from the upper left
elongation; next under this are four bars crossing
each other at alternate angles; under this last fig-
ure, that of a well-formed fish, making fourteen
distinct figures in all. The edges are beveled and
traced. This relic was found about eight feet be-
low the surface of the mound, and directly under
it was found a number of spear points, stone axes,
or hammers, and various other relics, including what
appeared to be the remains of human bones. Two
other mounds were opened by the party, in which
human bones were found, but no relics as valuable
as the one described.—Burlington Gazette.


FIFTEEN hundred bushels of onions were
raised in Sunderland, Mass., last year.


AN old man named Atwood died recently
near Chesnut, England. He was a bachelor,
and rich, but lived very quietly. He is
discovered to have been the giver of £1,000
checks. His books show that he gave away
£350,000 in this way; £45,000 within the
last year. He has left more than a million
sterling, and no will.  Mr. Atwood is
said to have made his money principally by
glass. A £1,000 note was lying about the
room, as if it had been waste paper.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			20 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,		-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a framed ste[--]engraving 12x16
inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
