Vol. 3	Salt Lake City, Utah, November 1, 1874.	No. 11


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Dame Fashion is always saying some-
thing, and now she says, “Wear high tor-
toise-shell combs again.”
	It will be a relief to a great many ladies
to learn that the latest Paris skirt just nice-
ly clears the ground.
	Europe appears to be anxiously looking
forward to a grevious war, though at pres-
ent a great calm seems to prevail there.
	Gentlemen editors are making remarks
on the said-to-be-fact that Miss Sherman
had, among other things in her bridal ward-
robe, one hundred pairs of stockings. We 
would like to know if it is any legitimate
affair of theirs if she had three hundred,
provided they haven't to pay for them.
	It is stated on reliable authority that or-
ganizations of white men are being formed
in all the Southern States, to defeat the
colored man and the carpet bagger. An ex-
change says, "This means a war of races."
By prophetic discernment it was proclaimed
years ago that such a war would come.
	Toronto, Canada, has advanced a step
ahead by electing a woman, Mrs. B. Herman,
as City Treasurer. She will doubtles assist
in proving that such positions of public trust
may be as faithfully and judiciously sus-
tained by daughters of Eve as they ever
were by any of Adam’s sons.
	By the “Brooklyn” boiler explosion,
which occurred on the 22nd ult., in the river
twelve miles below Detroit, Michigan, it
was reported that sixteen persons were in-
stantaneously killed, and a number more
badly injured. This is but one of a series
of shocking events of a similar nature and
of recent date, by which almost countless
souls have been suddenly ushered into eter-
nity.
	An editor of forty years standing says
he never lost a dollar by a female subscriber.
He thinks women make it a point of con-
scientious duty to pay for anything they bar-
gain for. We heard a photographic artist say,
not long since, that he scarcely considered it
necessary to book anything against a woman;
he never knew one to forget or fail to pay a
debt. Such expressions in woman's favor
argue well for the rights she claims.
	At Oak Ridge cemetery Springfield, Ill.,
a statue of the late President Abraham Lin-
coln has recently been completed upon the
spot where rest his earthly remains. The
event of unveiling the statue in the pres-
ence of an immense crowd, was conducted
with grand ceremony. Appropriate music
was followed by eloquent orations. Many
good things were spoken and read; among
the best, perhaps, was the statement that
the statue was completed and paid for.
	The second session of the Woman’s Con-
gress was held in Chicago last month. Mrs.
Livermore presided, and a large number of
representative women were present. Mat-
ters concerning the education and general
improvement of woman were freely and
ably discussed, and reports and suggestions
upon the same subjects were read. The ses-
sion lasted three days. It may yet appear
that the cause of woman progresses slowly,
but it is becoming every day more sure. 
	Woeful accounts are given of the suf-
fering inhabitants in the grasshopper re-
gions of Nebraska. Some are said to be in the
neighborhood of starvation, and thousands
will have to be fed by charity. These
scenes of distress are near home; and after
the several grasshopper seasons which have
lately been experienced in some portions of
this Territory, such reports can but remind
the people that through the mercies of God,
they have thus far been saved from such
calamities, by hearkening in a measure to
the counsel of His servants, to "live within
their means" and "store up their grain."
	Political arithmeticians have demon-
strated that if every man would work four
good hours in each day, on something of
use, it would be labor sufficient to procure
all the necessary comforts of life. No such
thing as want would be known, and the re-
maining twenty hours might be for rest,
leisure and pleasure. As nothing is said
about the employment of woman, we sup-
pose her whole time might be given to self-
improvement and the exercise, of her one,
unmistakable, uncontrovertible right—to
bring forth others of her species, to work
and be worked for.
	The officers of the Treasury at Wash-
ington, have, after much discussion upon
the subject of relatives in office, concluded
that "a person having a father or mother,
son or daughter in any department of the
government cannot be employed in the
Treasury department, and any person now
employed in the departments who have any
of the above named relatives in the govern-
ment service must be removed." Quite a
number of vacancies will be the result of
this new order, and in some instances, al-
most entire families will be thrown out of
employ. But after all the movement may
not be an injudicious one.


ANECDOTES.
	It is related of a minister who was noted
for his long sermons with many divisions
that one day, when he was advancing among
his teens, he reached at last a kind of rest-
ing-place in his discourse, when, pausing to
take a breath, he asked the question, "And
what shall I say more?" A voice from the
congregation earnestly responded, "Say
Amen!"
	Bunyan, the author of "Pilgrims Pro-
gress," on being cast into prison, made a
flute of one of the rails of the stool belong-
ing to his cell. The keeper often heard
sweet music, but could not trace it, as Bun-
yan, on his approach always replaced the rail
in the stool. The officers searched in vain
for the mysterious sounds, but Bunyan kept
his secret, and the baffled men were forced
to believe them supernatural.
	Gov. Woodson made a speech in Lafayette
County, Missouri, the other day which it
was hoped would have a beneficial effect in
inducing the Grangers to join the Democratic
party. At the close of the effort a particu-
larly attentive Granger was asked what he
thought of it. Pondering a moment he re-
plied:—“It reminds me of one of my cows.
She raises her tail higher, bellows and paws
the ground, and makes more fuss than any
other critter on the farm, and gives less
milk."
	One evening, a lady, who belongs on the
editorial staff of one of the leading dailies
of New York, had been detained by office
duties until rather a late hour. Living on
the Heights in Brooklyn, it was not much
of a venture to go home without an escort,
so she started. On the boat a gentleman(?)
said, "Are you alone?" "No sir," said the
lady, and when the boat touched stepped off.
"I thought you said you were not alone,"
said the fellow, stepping to her side again.
"I am not," replied the lady. "Why I 
don't see any one; who is with you?"
"God Almighty and the angels sir—I am
never alone." "You keep too good compa-
ny for me madam; good night."
	Gordon, the Scottish painter, used to tell
this story of Lord Palmerston: "I had ex-
hibited for years, but without any particular
success. One year, however—the year be-
fore I painted ‘The Corsicans’—Lord Pal-
merston took a sudden fancy to my picture
called 'Summer in the Lowlands,' and bought
it at a high figure. His lordship at the
same time made inquiries after the artist,
and invited me to call upon him. I waited
upon his lordship accordingly. He compli-
mented me upon the picture, but there was
one thing about it he could not understand.
'What is that, my lord?' I asked. 'That
there should be such long grass in a field
where there are so many sheep,' said his
lordship, promptly, and with a merry twin-
kle of the eye. It was a decided hit this;
and having bought the picture and paid for
it, he was entitled to his joke. 'How do
you account for it?' he went on, smiling,
and looking first at the picture and then at
me. 'Those sheep, my lord,' I replied,
'were only turned into the field the night
before I finished the picture.' His lordship
laughed heartily, and said 'Bravo' at my re-
ply, and gave me a commission for two
more pictures.
	An anecdote of Greeley enlivened Mrs.
Lillie Deveraux Blake's argument before the
Judiciary Committee of the New York As-
sembly, the other day. She wished to il-
lustrate by it the proposition that a strong
man did not always play the roll of protect-
or of his fellow-sister. And this is the sto-
ry: On a certain occasion, when Mr. Greeley
was quite a young man, and lived in a coun-
try infested by wild animals, he went call-
ing on a distant neighbor late one afternoon.
After spending an hour or two of delightful
social intercourse, he received an intimation
from the head of the house that it was time
for him to turn his steps homeward. Hor-
ace seemed loath to act upon the advice
given him, and, with that frankness that al-
ways characterized him, bluntly confessed
that, as his path home lay through a piece
of wolf-infested woods, he was afraid to go.
At which the farmers two buxom and bounc-
ing daughters volunteered to see Horace
home, and, their guardianship being accept-
ed, did actually accompany their guest to
the threshold of his own home.


A week conclusion—Saturday night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
				PARTING LINES.
TO MRS. HARRIET GRAY, OF PETERSBOROUGH, N.H.
		Fare you well, much honored mother; 
		Life and health your steps attend:
		God, our Father will protect you,
		As your homeward way you wend. 

		Fare you well, beloved Lady:
		Go in peace, and be thou blest.
		In the far off East, remember
		Those who love you, in the West.

		When you've filled your earthly mission
		And resigned your "dust to dust"
		You shall have abundant entrance
		Into mansions of the just.
							E.R. Snow.
SALT LAKE CITY, Aug. 2nd, 1874.


Returned.—Mrs. Harriet Gray, who re-
cently paid a visit to Utah, has returned
safely and in excellent health. Although in
her eighty-third year, she made the jour-
ney with ease and comfort, and speaks in
grateful terms of the courtesy and attention
everywhere shown her. She contemplates
a second visit when the temple at Salt Lake
City is completed. While at the City of the
Saints she was the guest of "Brother Brig-
ham." who spared no pains to make her
visit agreeable. Mr. James S. Gray who
continued the journey to California, has be-
come charmed with the golden State, and
proposes to return with his wife and spend
the winter in San Francisco.—Petersboro
Transcript.


For the EXPONENT. 

WOMAN, A SUBJECT.

BY BLANCHRE BEECHWOOD.

	The time was when women were held in
"small repute," inferior, subordinate, made
to feel so by custom and continual practice,
until they grew half ashamed of being
such.

	"And rudely wished to mother only boys;
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	

	Man looked askance, when someone old dame announced,
	The babe a girl, but flushed with pride, when told
	The ringing cry came from a lucky boy,
	And blessed the gods; when had it been a girl
	Had hardly deigned a smile."

	I must say I think those lines were sadly
"out of joint."
	New the "scene  is changed," from ocean 
to ocean woman and woman's rights, is re-
echoed. It is THE subject now in discussion.
Every fault of mankind has been directly
or indirectly attributed to women, until it
has become a by-word among men when any
starling or sensational catastrophe occurs;
"There's a woman at the bottom of the mis-
chief." Is it not time they took up the cud-
gel in their own defence? As sweethearts,
They have trifled with some innocent young
man's purely disinterested affection, causing 
his utter discumfiture and ultimate ruin; or
as wives, they have not borne insult, abuse,
or neglect, patiently and resignedly enough;
or as mothers, they have failed in doing
their whole and undivided duty, totally re-
gardless of all outward circumstances or in-
ward feeling. In fact, what right have they 
to feel at all? Man is lord, they are his pas-
sion or his toy, his cook or nurse as the case
may be; there can be no allowance made for 
them; if they fall, man is not to blame; how
could he be? How could this lord of crea-
tion have any weaknesses? It must have 
been his mother; he must have inherited
evil propensities from her. Has there been
an error or a fault committed since the days
of Eve's downfall, but is brought to bear
against the sex? Indeed so positive, adun-
dant and conclusive has been the evidence,
that women themselves have actually echo-
ed the refrain and convicted themselves.
	Woman's frailty, woman's vanity, woman's
extra vagance, these and a hundred other
similar subjects, are the inexhaustable topics
of the day. Her incapacity, her demerits,
all her weak points, brought out in the most 
unfavorable light to prove her inability to 
fill any but a home sphere; nature never de-
signed her for any other, SO SAYS THE VER-
DICT; and if she dares to overstep the pre-
scribed boundary, or pass the limit society 
has assigned her, woe be to her! She is for-
ever disenchanted; she has lost all true
womanly grace and purity, (almost her vir-
tue,) she is something to be shunned, she
must have been jilted, or soured by disap-
pointment, has been a neglected or forsaken
wife, or happless old maid, and so she would 
vent her ill-humorm or spleen by seeking no-
toriety. The responsibility of the whole
world of mankind, (according to these ideas)
rests upon her shoulders and those of her
sex, and yet she cannot raise her voice,
loosen her tongue, or send forth her opin-
ions and ideas to the world without con-
demnation.
	Men are afraid that if women are allowed
to mingle more freely, and their interests
become more closely associated with man's,
they will lose the peculiar charms of modes-
ty, grace and shyness, which particularly
characterize them, and constitute the strong-
est attraction (save beauty) which incites 
their admiration; that it will make them
coarse and bold, where heretofore they were
refined even to sensitiveness. But why
should not men assimilate themselves, to
this innocent and inherent refinement of
feeling and sentiment? God designed that
men should be as pure as women, their
bodies fit temples for the Holy Ghost to 
dwell in.
	Women untaught in their vast majority
for centuries, in many arts but those per-
taining to housekeeping, etc, are probably 
far less strong and deep than men, their
untrained mental processes and and conclusions
are necessarily swift and shallow as rule;
but the nature of womankind, more impul-
sive than that of man, relies more on intui-
tion than calculation: and though she may
not always have the large outlook upon the
universe, yet she inclines most to duty, and
childish and implicit obedience to God. She 
has quicker preceptions instead of hard,
cold reasoning; finer tone, purer thoughts
and greater faith; believes more in the effi-
cacy of prayer. How far woman's influence 
can be exerted, in bringing about the re-
demption of man, the future will prove;
that all her instincts, faculties and intelli-
gence will be called in question, that the
most torough mental training, calculated 
to develop all the latent strength and in-
crease the growth of intellect will be need-
ed for the cultivation of the highest and
holiest attributes implanted by the Deity,
who can doubt?
	Woman must be something more than a 
toy, or plaything, or fashion plate, or 
even household deity. She must become enlight-
ened on all points pertaining to life and its
purposes, not only how to bear and rear
children, but how to make them sphyically,
morally and mentally superior. Such knowl-
edge can never be obtained without some
exertion being made to educate women dif-
ferently, and to cultivate more fully their
higher powers of thought and understand-
ing. Neither will the Lord do for us the best of
our ability, every facult of our organiza-
tions: He gave them to us for this purpose,
not to be idle and rust, but to improve upon;
and whoever thinks the Lord will work mir-
acles for them, while they lie in idleness,
ease and luxury, regardless of his richest 
and best gifts, will assuredly meet with dis-
appointment.
	We must cultivate ourselves in the study
of human nature, its elements and devel-
opments; and when we properly understand
ourselves, we shall have more charity for 
others.
	We shall need to call up all the latent
forces within us, and cultivaate up all the latent
forces within us, and culivate them to the
very higest degree, in order even to assist
in the work of regeneration, of which we
talk so much, and with such an imperfect
understanding.
	"Strong-minded" women are the very
ones who will make the best aids and help-
meets for their husbands, competent to as-
sist, advise and sympathize; and if men
would interest themselves in helping to de-
velop woman's higher powers, instead of
placing almost instirmountable barriers to
hinder their progress, they would find it
much to their own advantage; and women
who are the most highly cultivated morally,
mentally and religiously, are the very ones
to do honor and reverence to men, who pos-
sess the noblest attributes and are nearest 
akin to God and Divinity.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 28th, 1874.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO THE GIRLS.
	My Dear Young Lady Friends:—I belong
to a Ward Retrenchment Association; but
as I am too bashful, or at least have not
power to stand up in meeting and express
my feelings and ideas in any way satisfac-
tory to myself, I have determined to give
you some of my thoughts through the EX-
PONENT, if our respected editor will kindly
permit me to do so.
	I think, then, that it is time every young
lady in our communities was seeking with
more diligence than has heretofore been
manifested, to improve herself in every
possible way, for Zion's sake as well as for
her individual good and consequent hap-
piness.
	It is a well known fact that the aim and
object of man's life, and woman's too, is to
obtain the greatest possible amount of hap-
piness, to secure enjoyment and pleasure.
So anxious are many to do this, that they
even accept those pleasures which, if they
would reflect, they would know must be but
momentary. Indeed, they will often grasp
those things which are only calculated to
bring pain and misery, believing that they
behold in them some beauty which may,
perchance, prove a present joy, and not
waiting to convince themselves that it may
or may not last forever; so full of haste are
they in their blind pursuit after pleasure.
	Another well established truth is that the
more intelligence that people possess, the
more enjoyment they are capable of receiv-
ing. I should think that this idea alone,
after a person has become conversant with
it, would be sufficient to awaken the strong-
est desire to obtain true wisdom and enlight-
enment. And it is, I am sure, with every
person of sense who will stop to consider.
I will try to illustrate the view I take of
this subject.
	Let us suppose that you and I enter a pic-
ture gallery. You have studied the art of 
painting and understand the nice points
connected therewith; such as harmony of
colors, arrangement of forms and all those
things. I have never given any attention


to them and do not know the difference be-
tween a good picture and a bad one. Of
course I would look with some degree of
pleasure on the beautiful works of the artist;
but your appreciation of them and delight
at beholding them, would far surpass any-
thing I could realize. You could almost see
the hand and eye of the artist at work in all
his fine touches, so well would you compre-
hend his objects and designs. While I might
be forgetful that the painting ever had a de-
signer or consummater—just as thoughtless,
indifferent people gaze upon the works of 
creation around them, forgetful that there
is a God.
	I believe it is, and will be the same with
us in relation to heavenly things. Unless
we study upon them and treasure up knowl-
edge concerning them, we never will be able
to appreciate and enjoy their glory and
magnanimity. Unless we learn to know
the will of the Lord concerning us, we can
not certainly know that we are living in ac-
cordance therewith. Unless we seek first
the kingdom of God and His righteousness
we have no promise of securing to ourselves
all these other good things which are so
much sought after and so desirable in the
sight of all. And I can testify, for a truth,
that I know for myself, for I have proven
though I am but young, that the safest and
only sure way of securing present comfort—
if we look no farther and say nothing of
eternal happiness—is by learning and keep-
ing the commandments of God. In them is
contained all that is necessary to make us
supremely wise; and true wisdom is the
only source of true happiness.
	TO THE EDITOR.—I am but a young be-
ginner, but knowing the charity which is
felt for the young ladies who seek to improve
themselves, by the elder sisters, I feel no
hesitancy in submitting this to your kind
consideration. When I have become a bet-
ter scholar and can write more intelligently,
you may publish my name; but for the pres-
ent, please call me 			GUESS WHO.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER.

	Yes mother you were tired; the day had
brought perplexing cares, and press of work,
and you were nervous. But your little
daughter had her troubles too, her sorrows
were as deep as she could bear; and before
she went to God, she came to you. She told
you of temptation which overpowered. She
had been conquered in the fight - for there
had been a fight— and she wanted confes-
sion and forgiveness, for her relief. How
did you fill her need? Forgetting yourself
did you enter into her feelings and give her
the help over the hard place, which will
bring her the next time to you with renew-
ed confidence that mother is the best friend,
even when sin has been committed—that
telling mother makes it easier to pray about?
Or did you forget the full table of forgive-
ness to which God has treated you, and deal
out to the hungry little one, the cold crums
of reproach and condemnation. God forgive
you, if you did,-and-help you set a better
table in future. God help you to keep a
cheery house in your heart for the children
in all their moods, in all their failings. Con-
sidering thyself, lest thou also be tempted
like them.—"The Christian at Work."


"Dear George said an Indianapolis young
woman, "I am willing to marry you if we
have to live on bread and water."
	"Well," said the enthusiastic George,
"you furnish the bread, and I'll skirmish
around and try and find the water."


THE DUTY OF WOMEN.
	It is the first duty of a woman to be a
lady. Good breeding is good sense. Bad
manners in woman is immorality. Awk-
wardness may be ineradicable. Bashful-
ness is constitutional. Ignorance of eti-
quette is the result of circumstances. All
can be condoned, and do not banish man or
woman from the amenities of their kind.
But self-possession, unshrinking and ag-
gressive coarseness of demeanor may be
reckoned as a State Prison offense, and cer-
tainly merits the mild form of restraint
called imprisonment for life. It is a shame
for women to be lectured on their manners.
It is a bitter shame that they need it. Wo-
men are the umpires of society. It is they
to whom all mooted points should be refer-
red. To be a lady is more than to be a 
princess. A lady is always in her right in-
alienably worthy of respect. To a dlay,
prince and peasant alike bow. Do not be
restrained. Do not have the impulses that
need restraint. Do not wish to dance with
the prince unsought. Feel indifferently.
Be such that you confer honor. Carry your-
self so lofty that men will look up to you for
reward, not at you in rebuke. The natural
sentiment of man toward woman is rever-
ence. He looses a large means of grace
when he is obliged to account her a being
to be trained into propriety. A man's idea
is not wounded when a woman fails in
worldly wisdom, but if in grace, in senti-
ment, in delicacy, in kindness, she should
be found wanting, he receives an inward
hurt.—[Gail Hamilton.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	LADY Marian Alford has laid the foun-
dation stone of St. John the Evangelist,
in Holborn England.
	MISS Mary Gray Retray has left a legacy
of 300l. to the Charity Organization So-
ciety of Great Britian.
	QUEEN Victoria has asked for an allow-
ance of $75,000 a year for her youngest son,
Prince Leopold, and after a little snarl the
House of Commons granted it.
	THE New York daily papers announce the
death of Mary Talcott, aged 77 years, who
is described as having been for sixty years a
most faithful servant of the late Governor
Van Ness.
	MISS Mitchell, Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College, is going to give a course of
lectures on her favorite science, at Gothic
Hall Boarding School in Stanford Ct., dur-
ing the coming school year.
	MISS Mary Ellis, formerly Acting Princi-
pal of Mt. Holyoke Seminary, who has
been touring in Greece, Palestine and
Egypt since her connection with Mrs.
Gould's school at Rome, takes the position
of Lady Principal in Iowa College.
	THE famous Mrs. Ann Hutchinson, whose
religious notions and teachings caused such
consternation and excitement in the infant
settlement of Massachusetts in 1638, became
first known, trusted and warmly loved there,
because of her freely rendered offices of care
and skill to the sick of her own sex. 
	MISS Carrie J. Dresser, a teacher of ex-
perience, has achieved a success in the con-
servative town of Fitchburg. The charge
of the grammer school there, hitherto pre-
sided over exclusively by gentlemen, has
been given her, and she is to receive equal
remuneration for equal service. 
	MRS. Scott, of Hope College, Michigan,
wanted a dose of citrate of potash, and took
strychnine by mistake. As soon as she be-
came aware of the mistake she swallowed a
glass of milk and some mustard, and sent
for a physician, who administered powerful
emetics, and saved her life. 
	FORTY of the Rev. George Wheeler's
parishioners at Concord, Mass., both men
and women, cut, cured and got in fifteen
acres of his grass in one day, recently, and
the champion of the crowd was Miss Emma
Wheeler of Providence R.I., who mowed a
wide swath twenty-five rods long, which
handsomely beat every man present.
	THE young Empress of Japan has visited
the boys' and girls' colleges and schools
which her empire contains. She has been
present at the lessons and distributed re-
wards to the pupils. It seems also that she
has refused to shave her eye-brows and to
blacken her teeth, a duty which is expected
of every married lady in Japan. She also
wears English shoes, drives in coupes, &c. 
	IN the western corner of the old burial
ground in Charlston is a solid and well-
wrought slate monument, erected more than
a century and a half ago, to the memory of
a notable woman "who was ordained and
commissioned by the Lord Bishop of Lon-
don to act as mid-wife in His Majesty's Pro-
vince of Massachusetts Bay." The original
inscription probably credited her with
"1300" babies as the trophies of her skill;
but some rougish hand hid in the grass has
interpolated two ciphers in the broad spread
characters of the inscription, so that it reads
"130,000 children."


﻿Names of countries.—Europe signifies
a country of white complexions; so named
because the inhabitants there were of light-
er complexion than those of either Asia or
Africa. Africa signifies the land of corn, or
ears. It was celebrated for its abundance of
corn and all kinds of grain. Spain, a coun-
try of rabbits, or conies. This country was
once so infested with these animals that the
inhabitants petitioned Augustus for an
army to destroy them. Italy, a country of
pitch; from its yielding great quantities of
pitch. Gaul, modern France, signifies yel-
low-haired; as yellow hair characterized its
first inhabitants. Britain, the country of
tin, as there were great quantities of lead
and tin found on the adjacent islands. The
Greeks called it Albion, which signifies
either white or high mountains, from the
whiteness of its shores, or the high rocks on
the western shores.


How obsequious is the lover to every wish
and look at her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection—in fact the very embodi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses, those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet, after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so lavish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see—that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.

----
How obsequious, is the lover to every wash.
and look of her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection—in fact the .very embpdi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses,those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet,after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so laveish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see—that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.
----
	How obsequious is the lover to every wish
and look of her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection--in fact the very embodi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses, those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet, after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so lavish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see--that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Laura Honey Stevenson has been singing
at the theatre, and her voice is accounted
as sweet and luxurious as her name indicates
......A new paper has been started in this
city, the name of which is the Utah "Scan-
dinave." It is published in three languages,
the Swedish, Danish and English...... Three
hundred and sixty woolen spindles and
five hundred and forty cotton spindles are
worked in the Beaver woolen and cotton fac-
tory......Sixteen prizes were awarded by the
committee on horses at the late stock fair
......Literary societies in the different wards
are re-opening for the winter, and electing
their officers......A woman in this city sepa-
rated from her husband, hired out to do
house-work, broke her engagement with
her employers and got married again, all
within a week. No "slow and easy" about
her...... Nineteen indictments were lately
reported in one day by the Grand Jury in
this city. The Court won't be out of work
for some time...... Since the close of the fall
Conference, Sunday services have been dis-
continued for the winter at the Tabernacle,
and afternoon and evening meetings are
held in the several wards.
			POLITICAL
	Ohio Democrats have lately elected a
judge of the State Supreme Court, for the
first time, in more than twenty years...... In
Connecticut, towns of more than five thou-
sand inhabitants are to be allowed two rep-
resentatives in the Legislature...... New
Mexico has instructed her Congressional
delegate to accept the proposition made by
several senators to unite the Territories,
Arizona and New Mexico...... At pres-
ent, a war between Japan and China seems
inevitable...... The government of Uruguay,
South America, will issue four million
dollars of paper money..... Election excite-
ment has been running high all over the
country but is partially subsiding..... The
Legislature of Vermont has elected Geo. F.
Edmunds for United States Senator for six
years from next March......Indiana elects a 
Democrat to the State Senate over a Repub-
lican by a majority of one...... It is reported
that Grant is tired of the talk about the
"Third term," and will refuse to run for the
Presidency again.
			LITERARY.
	The Stockton "Leader," Laura DeForce
Gordon's lively little journal, has entered
its second year. Success to it..... The young
ladies of the Collegiate Institute of Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., publish a paper called the
"Tyro." A most appropriate name for a
school journal...... A new illustrated Parisian
paper is announced entitled, "The Journal
of Young Mo hers," which will treat of the
health of infants, modes of caring for them,
their clothing, &c...... "Sketches of Illustri-
ous Soldiers" is the name of a new book, by
James Grant Wilson, which will probably
become popular...... A "Woman's Peace So
ciety," of London, offers $100 for the best
tract written by a woman on the subject of
peace..... Abba Gould Woolson is editing a
book on Dress Reform..... "Moore's Rural
New Yorker" is twenty-five years old.


THE women of New Jersey were enfran-
chised from 1776 until 1807, a period of thir-
ty-one years. The right to vote has since
that time been unlawfully and unjustly
withheld from the women citizens of Amer-
ica, with the exceptions of Wyoming
and Utah during the last few years.


OBITUARY.
	Died, in this city, at her residence in the
14th Ward, at 8 P. M., on the 25th inst.,
Eleanor Jane Pratt, wife of the late Elder
Parley P. Pratt, in the fifty-seventh year of
her age.
	Sister Pratt was born in Wheeling, Va.,
on the 29th of December, A. D. 1818. Was
baptized into the church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in San Francisco by Elder
McBride, May 23rd, in the year 1854. Since
which time she has been known as a woman
of integrity and much zeal in the cause
of truth, a faithful and true Latter-day
Saint to the end of her mortal career.
	"Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord, for they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them."
	Sister Eleanor emigrated to this city in
1855, 19 years ago. Since that period the
writer has been intimately acquainted with
her. She was a woman of sorrow; well
acquinted with grief. Of her it can be tru-
ly said, "She came up through much tribu-
lation."
	She taught school on Thursday, and pre-
pared her breakfast Friday morning. After
which she was suddenly taken with ap-
oplexy; sent for Bishop Taylor, conversed
freely with him in regard to her business
affairs, leaving everything in his charge;
he administered to her and she went to bed
and sank into a deep sleep from which she
never awoke in mortality. But she awakes
in the world of spirits, clothed in white
robes, with palms of victory in her hands,
where with the blest she can shout, "Oh
death where is thy sting! oh grave where
is thy victory!"			W. E.


COURTING.
	With more than ordinary interest we have
watched for some time past the proceedings of
United States officials in this Territory. And
some of them, we conclude, have hearts and
minds of sufficient magnitude to enable them
to court any body and every body; no matter
who, provided they can steal a chance where
there is a prospect of something to be gained.
	Whether their purpose is to amuse the people
in general, or to instruct them concerning par-
ticular duties and privileges, is not clearly de-
monstrated by their acts. But certain it is,
that the constant diatribe which they carry on
against the leading men in the communities,
is not calculated to engender a spirit of peace,
or to bring enlightenment to the minds of the
people.
	The query might well be propounded, what
is their business? Are they in the midst of
the people to preserve the peace, or as disturb-
ers of the same? If the former, they and their
assigners have mistaken their abilities. The
peace and good feelings which existed among


the people in Utah, prior to the interception of
out-side influences prominent among which
may be marked the doings of certain govern-
ment appointees, have been greatly disturbed
rather than increased by the subjugation
which these individuals have attempted. Yet,
from the official appellations by which they are
known, it would be supposed that they are
placed among the people as guardians of their
rights, arbitrators by whom the peace would 
be most heartily sustained, instead of watch-
ers for iniquity, to stir up strife and create
troubles that they may have causes of offense
to examine and judge. But the people can only
continue to watch patiently for final results.


﻿THE BOYS.
	Do their mothers know where they are or
what company they keep? A great crowd of
them, mostly small ones, gathered on the
street in front of the city market, on Saturday
last, while a large herd of cattle was going
past. Some of the little fellows ran heedlessly
in amongst the stock which was jaming, crowd-
ing and hurrying along, as if realizing no dan-
ger, until one of them was struck and knocked
down by the foot of a horse upon which one of
the cattle drivers rode. Fortunately, the boys
all scampered out of the way then, and no fur-
ther mischief was done. The one that was
struck limped a little, but showed no signs of
having been seriously hurt. He has kind
Providence to thank, however, that he was not
trampled to death in the midst of the rushing
herd.


DON'T TRIFLE.
	It is a trite fact that to ensure success in any
kind of business, business must be done meth-
odically, and thoroughly, with perseverance
and care. That incompleteness and mistakes
are occasioned by neglect or inattention. In
the least as well as the greater concerns of life,
this rule is unexceptionable; and much of the
prosperity and happiness of mankind depend
upon a strict observance of the same.
	Not only in the transacting of business be-
tween man and man, the forming of contracts
and making plans pertaining to worldly af-
fairs should this system of thorough complete-
ness be constantly kept in view. But upon
the same basis must all true religious princi-
ples be founded. In order to gain that full and
perfect salvation for which the saints are ac-
customed to pray, it is most essential for them
to live perfect lives so far as their knowledge
extends. Neglecting a known duty here or
there, and yielding to this or that trifling yet
forbidden indulgence, will, sooner or later
grieve away the chaste and sensitive spirit
which leads unto peace and happiness and joy
most exquisite and eternal. Just as slight
omissions and little extravagancies and irreg-
ularities in connection with things of mortal-
ity, are followed by financial losses and fail-
ures.


AIR.
	Pure, fresh air for the children, is one of the
best producers of pure, good blood, from which
may be built up a healthy system. The desire
to be out of doors, even in cold, stormy, disa-
greeable weather, is natural with children.
The little being instinctively calls for free, full
inspiration; and it has a native right to the
same. Parents, teachers or guardians have no
just right to shut out from the children the
fresh, sweet air and the glad light of heaven.


O! let homes be made with large, comfortable,
light and airy rooms, so that the little ones
need not be kept in suffocating gloom, even
when they must be kept in. And let them be
so much accustomed to free, pure ventilation,
and so well habited in times of uncertain
weather that there will be no fear of their
"taking cold," and  sickness being entailed,
should they happen to be out of doors when a
little wind arises.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday, the 26th inst., has been designa-
ted by President Grant as the day to be ob-
served as a National Thanksgiving day.
	A slight fall of snow, the first of the season,
appeared on the 28th ult., in this valley, as if
to remind the inhabitants that winter was ap-
proaching, and hasten them to make ready
for it.
	The time of year has again arrived,
when the labors of the Relief Societies can be
best appreciated, by the needy ones whose
homes are gladdened by cheery visits and still
more comforting offerings.
	President Brigham Young and company
started for his winter home in St. George on
the 29th ult. His health, though still feeble,
is improving, and he journeys with care and
prudence, attended by the good wishes and
faith of many thousands, for his perfect recov-
ery and prolonged life.
	MRS. Nelson of Tooele is the first woman
in the Territory, we believe, who has been in-
dicted by our U.S. officials. She is a foreigner
by birth and has been arrested upon a charge
of illegal voting at the August election. As her
husband though a foreigner claims to be natu-
ralized, it appears that women as well as men
who were born aliens, must be naturalized in
order to become legal voters, according to the
views of some of our officials.
	All the stock specimens exhibited at the
late Stock Fair were of rare quality, and the
whole affair was a satisfactory one; as the Des-
erest Agricultural and Manufacturing Society
have always managed to bring before the pub-
lic when they have attempted anything of the
kind. Four lady equestrians took part in the
races; namely Mrs. R. W. Wilson, Miss Edith
Clawson, Mrs. Joseph A. Young, and Mrs. B.
H. Young. A prize was awarded each one. 
	Among others, Hon. George Q. Cannon
has again been indicted for alleged "lascivious
cohabitation," and placed under bail of five
thousand dollars. How long such persecutions
of the Saints will go on it is impossible to
judge; but it does appear that none but
the most bigoted enemies of peace would per-
severe in repeating such allegations, in the face
of the decision rendered by the Supreme Court
of the United States in '72.


For the EXPONENT.
		DON'T LET TALENT RUST.
	As by constant friction steel is kept highly
polished, so by constant exercise is talent
ever at its brightest. All our powers grow
by use. If we neglect to cultivate the habit
of observation, we might as well walk
through the world blindfolded. We lose
our faculty—what artists call our "touch"—
by neglect of practice on other things be-
sides the piano. The man who seldom
reads, reads slowly; the woman whose
writing is confined to an unfrequent letter
to some absent child spends more time
over that than does a practical writer over
a dozen pages of manuscript. Exercise of


possessed talent is absolutely necessary,
then if we would retain our gifts. For ex-
ample: if our occupation is sedentary, we
need plans for walks, rides and active games
to keep our muscles lithe and serviceable.
But if our employment gives us enough
muscular action, it is not one whit less im-
portant to our health of body that we should
plan for mental exercise—for employment
enough of our memory and our reasoning
powers to keep them from rusting. And, in
either case, that life must be a dwarfed and
unhealthy one that does not provide exer-
cise for our spiritual faculties—for worship,
and charity, and patience, and magnanim-
ity. Exercise of soul, mind and body can
alone bring us to the stature of the perfect
man.


LITTLE FOLKS.
	AT Alton Ill., a preacher asked all Sunday
Scholars to stand up who intended to visit
the wicked, soul-destroying circus. All but
a lame girl stood up.
	"WHAT'S the matter with you my pet?"
"O, aunty! I went to touch a little chickey,
and the old hen growled at me and bit me
with her nose!"
	"Is your dad at home?" asked a neighbor
man of a very little boy. The urchin eyed
the inquirer sharply a moment, and then
cooly replied, "I've got a father."
	A FOUR year old girl having been reproved
by her mother for revenging an offence by
"making faces," when next offended cutely
said, "I'll go behind your chair and make a
face."
	A LITTLE one had made a mis-step and fal
len upon the floor, and was asked, "Are you
much hurt?" "Yes!" "It hasn't laid you
up I hope." "No—it's laid me down 
though."
	HARRY, after looking on while his new
little sister cried at being washed and dress-
ed, turned away, saying, "If she screamed
like this up in heaven, I don't wonder they
sent her off."
	"WHAT ails that boy's eye?" asked a
small boy of his larger sister. "He's blind,"
answered the girl, "he put his eye out with 
an awl." "Oh!" exclaimed the little fellow,
"why didn't he take the awl and put his eye
in again?"
	DURING the recent flood in Middlefield,
N.Y., a little five year old boy, when the
water had reached the height of two or
three feet around the house in which he
was, fell upon his knees and uttered the
following prayer: "O, Lord I don't like this;
take it away. You said when you set your
bow in the skies you would have no more
floods. Now, how is this? Amen."
	A PRIEST who was examining a confirma-
tion class in the south of Ireland, asked the
question: "What is the sacrament of matri
mony?" A little girl at the head of the
class answered, "'Tis a state of torment into
which souls enter to prepare them for an-
other and better world." "Being," said the
priest, "the answer for purgatory."—"Put
her down," says the curate, "put her down
to the fut of the class." "Lave her alone,"
said the priest, "for anything you or I
know to the contrary, she may be perfectly
right."


About 18,700 letters were posted in Eng-
land last year without any address whatever,
and nearly five hundred of the letters con-
tained cash, checks, or bills of exchange to
the value of more than $13,000.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A WOMAN 111 years old lives in Fring,
England. During the harvest, last year,
she cut several sheaves of wheat, and in-
tends to do so again next year, if she is
alive and well at harvest time.
	A tablet in memory of Mrs. Alfred
Gatty has been placed in Ecclesfield Church,
the funds for which have been raised by
sixpenny subscriptions of 1000 readers of
Aunt Judy's Magazine, of which she was
the editress.
	Co-education of the sexes, at Alfred N.
Y., has been in successful practice for 37
years. The school began with 36 pupils, and
for years had the trying experience of all
indigent institutions. It now averages 450
students annually, having had about 7000
matriculates of a nearly equal number of
men and women. The average ages
have been respectively 20 and 18; time of
attendance about two years. The average
scholarship of the ladies has been two per
cent. better than of the gentlemen. In the
lower branches the sexes have been equally
represented; but in the higher, especially
classics, gentlemen have predominated, the
course being elective. The death rate has
been 10.6 of 1 per cent. of males, and 7.8 of
females. or 2.8. of 1 per cent. in favor of
women.


THE FUTURE.
	Since the Democratic politicians have, as ap-
pears, generally sided with the liquor interests and
against the women, the probability is that the line
drawn between the parties of the near future will
be on one side Woman Suffrage and Temperance,
on the other side the liquor interest and the Dem-
ocracy. While it is true that the crusade move-
ment has not been that which the Woman Suffra-
gists unite in, for they prefer law to its violation,
and are laboring for recognition under the law,
not for aggression without law; yet it appears la-
mentably true, that the Democratic party and the
liquor interests combining with that party have
braced themselves against yielding to women their
political rights. The absurdity of this in the first
place is its most remarkable feature; differances of
opinion feelings and modes of action exist as
prominently among women as among men; all wo-
men cannot be classified as of one view on matters
of public policy any more than of religion; neither
can one class of women be representative of all
any more than the same among men.
	Women have as true individuality, and possibly
more so than men; they certainly have than poli-
ticians. Inasmuch as the views of women deffer
on the crusade movement, so do they also differ on
the question of prohibition or no prohibition li-
cense or no license. These are matters of judg-
ment. Temperance or intemperence is a question
of morality. If such a thing is ever possible as
purity in a political party, then will the watch-
word be, "Do justice though the skies fall." The
women demand the franchise on the broad ground
of justice, not for any single aim or the further-
ance of any side issue. They demand it for self-
protection. They demand it as a right which no
man or party of men have a right to withhold
from them. The question of how will they vote
has no place at all in the proposition. They will
vote just as men vote, according to their well-di-
gested views, but probably with more principle.
But one thing is certain, their votes will never be
bought with a drink of whisky or a glass of ale,
and their principles will not be conveniently elas-
tic as those of male politicians. The chances are
that the votes of the women will be on the side
of good order, whatever that may be, and if the
Democracy object to that the hurt in the long run
is to them and not to the women.—Toledo Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUNSHINE.
		BY M. L. BRINE
There's plenty of sunshine to spare for us all,
Then into our lives let us take it:
The world, though brimful of the glorious light
Can be dark, if we choose so to make it.
We must open our hearts, let the sunlight pour in
And light up the dark, dreary places;
With sunshine without and sunshine within,
Nevermore shall we see gloomy faces.

We should seek out the lives that are gloomy and sad,
Where sunshine perchance hath ne'er entered,
And give to them freely from our brimming cup,
Where sunshine and peace have long centered.
Oh! all the world over there's light for us all,
Then into our lives let us take it.
The world, though brimful of the glorious light,
Can be dark, if we choose so to make it.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Economy.—In making gored dresses, plenty of
pieces are left to bind the bottom, especially in
solid colors.—Z. D. Y. 
	To Restore Dim Writing.—Dim writing, nearly
effaced by age, may be restored by the application
of a solution of prussiate of potash and water.
Wash the parts with a hair pencil, and the writing
will appear if the paper has not been destroyed. 
	Looking Glasses spoiled by Sunshine.—It does
not seem to be generally understood that the amal-
gam of tin-foil with mercury, which is spread on
glass plates to make looking-glasses, is very readily
crystalized by actinic solar rays. A mirror hung
where the sun can shine on it is usually spoiled; it
takes a granulated appearance familiar with house-
keepers, though they may not be acquainted with
the cause of the change. In such a state  the ar-
ticle is nearly worthless, the continuity of the sur-
face is destroyed and it will not reflect outlines with
any approach to precision.	
	To Cook Dry Field Peas.—Wash the peas and
soak them over night in cold water. Put them on
next morning to parboil in fresh water and let them
boil half an hour, adding one-fourth teaspoonful of
saleratus to one gallon of peas; then pour off the
water and rinse them thoroughly in two waters,
that every particle of alkali may be removed; then
put on to boil again, adding pork or beef for seas-
oning.  They generally require to be cooked slowly
three or four hours. After being boiled until per-
fectly tender, they are sometimes baked, as beans,
in a slow oven.
	Removing Grease Spots.—In taking out grease
from clothing with benzole or turpentine, people
generally make the mistake of wetting the cloth
with the turpentine and then rubbing it with a
piece of sponge or cloth. In this way the fat is
dissolved, but is spread over a greater space and is
not removed; the benzole or turpentine evaporates,
and the fat covers a greater distance than before.
The only way to remove grease-spots is to place
soft blotting-paper beneath and on top of the spot
which is to be first thoroughly saturated with the
benzole and then well pressed. The fat is then
dissolved and absorbed by the paper, and entirely
removed from the clothing.
	To get rid of Insects.—Take two pounds of alum
and dissolve in three or four quarts of boiling wa-
ter; let it stand on the fire till the alum disappears;
then apply it with a brush, while nearly boiling
hot to every crevice in in your closets, bedsteads,
pantry-shelves, and the like. Brush the crevices
in the floor of the skirting or mop-boards, if you
suspect they harbor vermin. If, in whitewashing
a ceiling, plenty of alum is added to the lime, it
will also serve to keep insects at a distance. Cock-
roaches will flee the paint that has been washed in
cool alum water. Sugar barrels and boxes can be
freed from ants by drawing a chalk mark, just
round the edge of the top of them. The mark
must be unbroken or they will creep over it; but a
continuous chalk mark half an inch in width will
set their depredations at naught. Powdered alum


or borax will keep the chintz bugs at a respectable
distance, and travelers should always carry a pack-
age in their hand bags, to scatter over and un-
der their pillows where they have reason to sus-
pect the presence of such bed-fellows.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
				For the EXPONENT.
	For Chillblains.—Oxgall, olive oil or
coal oil, spirits of turpentine and camphor,
equal parts.
	Cancers.—When a cancer first appears,
it may be killed by the application of oil of
winter-green. It is also good to take a
little of the oil internally.
	For Burns.—Never forget salt for burns.
If the skin is broken, put a piece of thin
cloth over the flesh before putting on the
salt, and drip a little water on occasionally.
	To harden tender feet.—Strong brine
or salt and water is an excellent thing for
hardening tender feet. It is also good for
sponge bath, as it invigorates the whole sys-
tem. A swallow of salt and water in the
morning is good to prevent sick head ache.
	For sudden Deafness.—Syringe the ear
with warm milk and water increasing the
heat as you can bear, it some five or six
times; then with a smooth tweezer bole or
something of the kind, remove whatever
has accumulated. This often gives instant
relief.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
	Ethnology in hair.—Advantage is
being taken of the structure of human hair
to determine the different races of man-
kind. The hair of the North American In-
dian is cylindrical or round; that of the
white race is oval; and that of the negro is
eccentrically eliptical, a kind of flattened
oval. The oval hair has a greater number
of fibers on the sides, this condition
gives the tendency to curl or curve in that
direction. Cylindrical hair, such as that of
our Indians is equal on all sides, hence, its
lank, straight condition, as there is no ten-
dency to stretching or shrinking; it appears
that when this kind of hair is passed be-
tween rollers, so as to flatten it, it instantly
curls!
	Now, as the cylindrical hair is a type of
all natives of the continent of America,
that is to say of the purely aboriginals; and,
as the hair of the ancient inhabitants is also
proved to be cylindrical it is infered that our
Indians are the descendents of the ancient
Peruvians and their brethren.
	This is interesting to us, to whom the
records of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent are accessible and believed in as
a history; and is only one among the many
means being used to connect the present
with the past inhabitants of this great con-
tinent.
					For the EXPONENT
	The Transit of Venus.—This event is
of such immense importance to the scien-
tific world, that no less than thirty suitable
stations have been chosen for observation.
The United States, Great Britain, France,
Germany, and Russia vie with each other in
the pursuit of knowledge that will, it is to
be hoped, determine the exact distance
of the sun from the earth.
	Halley, the great astronomer, was the
first to point out the application of the tran-
sit of Venus across the sun's disk as a means
of ascertaining correctly the solar distance.
The next transit occurs on the 8th of Decem-
ber of the present year, when observations


will be made by the most skillful scientists,
aided by instruments of the most approved
construction.
	The last transit of this planet that was
visible from the earth, occured in 1769;
after this year, the next that will be seen
will be in the year 2004. As the present
transit will occur in the winter, observations
will have to be made south of the equator.
The problem is to obtain, by angular meas-
urement, two sides of a triangle which be-
ing known will enable the third side to be
determined


AN INCIDENT IN THE CARS.
	On the whole pleasant traits of character
are not common in the cars. This opinion I
expressed to my friend Summers the other day.
In reply to my remarks he related a little ad-
venture, which, as it is apropos, and moreover,
involves a little love and sentiment, I give it
without apology, and in his own words. It ap-
pears that in the most unlikely places, love and
sentiment may be discovered.
	"I was escorting home the lovely Charlotte
—, to whom at that time I was quite devot-
ed. Charlotte could scarcely find room to
spread her crinoline and arrange her volumin-
ous flounces. I stood up near her there being
no vacant seat.
	After a few minutes, a poor woman came in,
who deposited a basket of clothes on the front
platform, and held in her arms a small child
while a little girl clung to her arms. She
looked tired and weary, but there was no va-
cant seat; to be sure Charlotte might have
condescended to contract her flounces but she
did not. Beside her, however, sat a very
lovely and elegant young woman, who seemed
trying, by moving down closer to others, to
make space enough for the stranger between
herself and Miss D—. At last she succeeded,
and with the sweetest blush I ever saw she in-
vited the poor female to be seated. Charlotte
D— drew her drapery around her and blush-
ed, too, but it was not a pretty blush at all and
she looked annoyed at the proximity of the
new comer, who was clean and decently though
thinly clad.
	The unknown lady drew the little girl upon
her lap, and wrapped her velvet mantle around
the small half clad form, and put her muff over
the half-frozen little hands.
	So great was the crowd that I alone seemed
to observe. The child shivered--the keen wind
from the door blew upon her unprotected neck.
I saw the young lady quietly draw from under
her mantle a little woolen shawl which she
softly put on the shoulders of the little one;
the mother looked on with confused wonder.
After a short time she arose to leave the cars,
and would have removed the shawl, but the
unknown gently whispered, 'No, keep it for
her.' The woman did not answer, the conduc-
tor hurried her out, but her eyes swam with
tears. I noticed her as she descended to a base-
ment, and I hastily marked the house.
	Soon after my unknown also rose to depart.
I was in despair, for I wanted to follow and
discover her residence, but could not leave
Miss D—.
	How glad, then, I was to see her bowing, as
she passed out, to a mutual acquaintance who
stood in the doorway. From him, ere many
minutes, I learned her name and address.
	To shorten the story as much as possible, that
lady is now my wife. In the small incident
which introduced her to me, she showed her
real character. A few days after our marriage
I showed her the blessed crimson shawl, which
I redeemed from its owner, and shall keep as
a memento. There are sometimes pleasant
things to be found in unexpected places; cer-
tainly I may be said to have picked out my
wife in the cars."--"Baltimore Review."


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London postoffice.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.
	A BOAT voyage with a kite as the
motive power is to be attempted from
Bridgeport, Ct., to New York City. The
kite is 12 by 20 feet, and will take a boat
containing three persons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BOSTON SEWING GIRLS
THEIR PITIFUL LIFE DESCRIBED BY ONE
		WHO HAS FELT IT.
	The following was related by a lady of
good sense, as the result of her personal ex-
perience and observation among the sewing
girls of one of the large firms in Boston:
	When I first came here to Boston I did
not have quite as much money as I wanted,
and so thought I would just go down to
——, and take my sewing machine and
see what I could do at that work. I didn't
need to do it particularly, because I could
earn more money at taking care of the sick,
and, besides, I was more used to it; but I
went more than half to see how the girls
worked and got paid and were treated. So
I took my machine and started—I had to
pay for having it carried up stairs, and to
climb so many flights that when I arrived, I
was not fit to run a machine for half an hour.
	Well, I supposed, of course I should earn
as much as a dollar and a half a day—I did
not want to raise my expectations, so put it,
as I thought, low,—and thought, perhaps,
after I got used to it I should earn more.
They gave me a linen suit to make up; the
stitching, bands, ruffles, cuffs, and collar, all
to be finished complete for sale, and the wo-
man said to me (seeing probably that I
looked as if I knew how to sew) "I suppose
you can make two of these in a day." I
am pretty used to sewing, was a dressmaker
when I was first married, but that rather
surprised me—two in a day! Well, I
thought, of course I shall get two dollars or
more for them, and that will be doing pret-
ty well. I made that one suit in a day, and
how much do you suppose I was paid for it?
Seventy cents!
	And there were seventy-five girls or more
in that room, some young and pretty, many
with no homes, and with their board to pay
out of seventy cents a day.
	None of them could make more than that,
and many were wholly inexperienced, so
made much less. The second day I was
there they gave me a white wrapper to 
make, with insertion stitched in, and hems
and tucks, and that took me a day and a
half, and I had for it ninety cents, while a
white suit covered with ruffles and inser-
tion, which took me three days, brought the
enormous price of $1.50. then the fore-
woman—and it does seem as if they were
always selected for their hardness of heart
—gave the work merely cut out, no putting
together or showing how it should be done.
	And these poor girls, many of whom had
never even made their own clothes, had to
put these suits together as best they could,
often taking the best part of the day, and if
any mistake were made it had to be correct-
ed, and the work was not paid for when
made wrong, or part was deducted. One 
day one of the new girls came crying back
to the work room; she had finished the suit
and put the sleeves in wrong, (there was no
possible way for an inexperienced girl to
tell how to do it,) and she had them to rip
out and put in again. It made my heart
ache to see her cry. I thought of my own
little girl, and I put down my work and
helped her to do it, and showed her so she
would not make the mistake again.
	Then I told her to bring every garment to
me, and I would tell her how to put it to-
gether, and after a while all the girls did so,
and I helped them all and tried to encour-
age them.  "You won't earn much in that
way," said the forewoman to me. "I don't
care," said I.  "I suppose if I worked stead-
ily all day I could make two suits, for I 
knew how they should go together, but I
can't be selfish when I see these girls work-
ing so blindly and earning so little, and after
all getting it wrong."
	Well, I couldn't stand it long; climbing
all those stairs, working like a mill horse all
day, made me so weak that I had to give it
up.
	But that is the way the sewing girls live,
(and in one store in the city, their pay is
less.)  Truly, as one of them said, "they
earn nothing and find themselves." Then
they sit, all day long, sewing, sewing, wear-
ing themselves out, ruining health, and per-
haps, after all their efforts driven to wrong
from sheer disgust at the fruits of doing
right.  I remember two very pretty girls
who had worked there long and faithfully.
	One of them said to me one day: "We
won't stand this any longer. We can make
more money and not work so hard, and we
mean to do it." "How?" said I. "Oh,
never mind how," one answered. I thought
in a minute how they were tempted, and 
talked to them long and seriously, but oh
dear! oh dear! if our fine ladies only knew
how the life-blood, happiness and honor of
many a young girl is stitched away with 
their ruffles and hems, they would be more
merciful to their fallen sisters.
	And then I suppose, this morning, both mem-
bers of the firm have gone to church, and
devoutly prayed for forgiveness of their sins,
and listened to the prayer for fallen women,
and never thought or cared how many of
these have cried for mercy at their door. It
makes my heart ache to talk about it! You
may talk about woman suffrage, and you
may talk about dress reform, I will go for
anything and fight for anything that will
give these girls a chance to become good
women, and get fair wages for their work.
—"Homestead."


INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	Professor Cairnes, says in reply to Pro-
fessor Goldwin Smith's argument against
"Woman Suffrage."
	Vermont boasts a host of smart old ladies,
among whom the following are named:
Hannah Bowen of Bethel, aged ninty-two,
wife of S. Bowen, is holding her own with
the other young folks at picking hops, hav-
ing worked several days this season in the
field. Brandon has a Mrs. Jusrus Hyatt,
aged eighty-two years, who walked from
her residence, a few days ago, to Leicester,
a distance of six miles, and then wanted to
walk back the same day. Vershire boasts of
Mrs. Lucas Hinkley, who is ninety-two
years of age and has been spinning at sev-
eral different places. In one place she spun
twenty knots a day, and knit a large mitten
every day, for eighty days in succession.
	As a rule there exist no living descend-
ants in the male line, from the great au-
thors, artists, statesmen, soldiers of England.
There is no such descendant of Chaucer,
Shakespeare, Spenser, Butler, Dryden, Pope,
Cowper, Goldsmith, Scott, Byron, or Moore;
not one of Drake, Cromwell, Monk, Marl-
borough, Peterborough, or Nelson; not one
of Stafford, Ormond, or Claredon; not one of
Addison, Swift, or Johnson, not one of Wal-
pole, Bolingbroke, Chatham, Pitt, Fox,
Burke, Gra[-]tan or Canning; not one of Ba-
con, Locke, Newton, or Davy; not one of
Hume, Gibbon, or Macaulay; not one of
Hogarth, or Reynolds; not one of Garrick,
John Kemble, or Edmund Kean. It would
be easy to make a similar American list,
beginning with Washington, of whom it is
said that "Providence made him childless
that his country might call him Father."
	If a child wants a light to go to sleep by,
give it one. The sort of Spartan firmness
which walks off and takes away the candle
and shuts all the doors between the house-
hold cheer and warmth and the pleasant stir
of evening mirth, and leaves a little son or
daughter to hide its head under the bed-
clothes and get to sleep the best it can, is
not at all admirable. Not that the mother
means to be cruel, when she tries this or
that hardening process, and treats human
nature as if it were clay to be moulded into
any shape she may please. Very likely, she
has no idea whatever of the injury and suf-
fering she causes, or perhaps her heart aches;
but she perseveres, thinking she is doing
right.
	"If I were asked to name the principal
element of weakness in the family as things
now stand, I should have no hesitation in
pointing to the want of sufficient subjects
of common interest between man and wo-
man. It is owing to this that matrimonial
engagements are entered into so rarely on
the basis of any broad intellectual sympa-
thy, such as might furnish some security
for lasting affection and so often at the bid-
ding of impulses and fancies that do not out-
live the honeymoon; and it is owing to the
same cause that so very large a proportion
of the lives of most husbands and wives are
spent practically apart, with little or no
knowledge on the part of either of the ob-
jects or aims which engross the greater por-
tion of the other's thoughts and energies."
	Curious to relate, from the conclusion of
several surgeons in the German army that
detriment to health and even death itself
have resulted from the practice of wearing
leather shoes in wet weather, some of the
scientific societies of the Continent have
recommended the manufacture of wooden
shoes for soldiers, out-door laborers, and
others who are obliged to be abroad with-
out regard to the elements. An experien-
ced workman from France was a short time
since called to Germany to superintend
the manufacture of wooden shoes on an ex-
tensive scale in the latter country. These
are represented as being light and easy to
wear, and are provided with a small cushion
within the upper side to obviate any pres-
ure on that part of the foot; they are also
said to be of neat and pleasing appearance,
blackened or varnished; are made large
enough to accommodate comfortable stock-
ings, and are furnished with leather straps.


IT is not every one whose theory about en-
dorsing notes is as good as that of the small
Scotch laird who was waited upon by a
neighbor, to request his name as, an accom-
modation, to a bill for twenty pounds, at
three months;
	"Na, na, I canna do that."
	"Why for no, laird? Ye hae done the
same thing for ithers."
	"Ah, Tammas, there's wheels within
wheels ye ken naething aboot. I canna
do't."
	"It's a sma' affair to refuse me laird."
	"Weel, ye see, Tammas, if I were to pit
my name till't, ye wad get the siller frae
the bank, and when the time came round
ye wadna be ready, and I would hae to pay't;
an' then you and me wad quarrel; sae we
may just as weel quarrel noo, as lang as the
siller's in ma pouch."


When is a loaf of bread said to be inhab-
ited? When it has a little Indian in it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Improve yourself and you benefit the
world.
	A married girl of thirteen seeking a di-
vorce on the ground that she is too young,
is one of the latest social developments of
Indianapolis.
	A school for teaching spinning and weav-
ing is to be established in the Canton of
Zurich, and a sum of 200,000 francs has
been subscribed for its endowment.
	During a hurricane in Kansas, the coun
ty treasurer became so terrified that he ac-
knowledged a defalcation of $1,500. After
the wind had subsided, he denied it.
	The most reverend, the Archbishop of
Westminster, England, has forbidden female
singers in churches in his archdiocese. He
may be a man of superior judgment, but we
don't admire his taste for music.
	French statistics show that there are
cities of fifteen thousand inhabitants in that
country without a physician. The same
figure also indicates that the per centum of
mortality is lightest where there are fewest
doctors.
	Late advices from Montana represent
that small bands of Indians are depredating
about the mouth of the Musselshell. A par-
ty of woodchoppers were murdered, and
another man burned at the stake. Setting
Bull's band are charged with the last named
crime. 
	A Detroit young woman tried to be
aristocratic and did not look at the money
that she gave the horse-car conductor, but
he meekly gave her back the lozenge on
which was written "I'll never cease to love
thee," and said that he was an orphan with
five little brothers to support and must be
excused.
	There are now living in Rhehoboth, Bris-
tol County, Mass., about thirty persons who
are eighty years of age and upwards, in a
population of two thousand, a circumstance
of which few towns can boast. Mrs. Phebe
Bullock, who on the 12th of July completed
her eighty-fifth year, has, since the opening
of spring, woven with her own hands about
one hundred yards of rag carpeting.
	"Mrs. Woodhull crossed the continent
with free passes for all her party," says the
San Francisco "Chronicle." "And she left her
money matters at the Golden Gate in charge
of a judge." And the Detroit "Free Press"
says--"Out West here we don't get red be
hind the ears and holler: 'Who paid the
Woodhulls' fare to Europe?' We are sim-
ply thankful they went." Poor Vic.!


DIVERSIONS. 
	A good suggestion is like a crying baby:
it should always be carried out.
	What is the champion conundrum—
Life; because everybody has to give it up.
	Since the beginning of the temperance
crusade a great many ladies have been ad-
mitted to the bar.
	What is the difference between a church
organist and the influenza?—One knows
the stops and the other stops the nose.
	“Ah!” yawned a bachelor, “this world is
but a gloomy prison.” “To those in solitary
confinement,” added a witty lady.
	A Troy woman says that if death loves a
shining mark, it is singular that he has not
aimed at her husband’s nose before this.


A small Milwaukee boy thinks it absurd
to ask $50 for a thrashing machine when
his mother only pays $2 a pair for slippers.
	A man advertises for a competent person
to take the sales of a medicine, and adds—
"it will prove highly lucrative to the under-
taker.
	THERE are two reasons why some people
don't mind their own business; one is they
haven't any business, and the other is that
they haven't any mind.
	"WHERE a woman," says Mrs. Parting-
ton, "has been married with a congealing
heart, and one that beats desponding to her
own, she will never want to enter the mari-
time state again.
	A minister asked a tipsy fellow, leaning
up against a fence, where he expected to go
when he died. "If I can't get along any
better than I do now," he said, "I shan't go
anywhere. I'll stay where I am!"
	THE other day a Brooklyn policeman, in
making out a charge against an arrested
party, wrote: "The prisoner set upon me
disorderly, and called me an ass, and a pre-
cious ruffian, and an idiot—all of which I
certify to be true."
	DISCONTENTED Cabby (to ladies, who
wishing to get rid of their small change,
have tendered him one fourpenny piece,
two threepenny ditto, one penny, one half-
penny, and two farthings—the sum total
amounting to his proper fare: "Well 'ow
long might yer both a' been in saving up 
for this treat?"—Punch.
	THE other day a minister offered prayer
at the laying of a corner-stone. A brisk
young reporter bustled up and said: "I
wish you would give me the manuscript of
that prayer." "I never write out my pray-
ers," responded the preacher. "Well," said
the reporter, "I couldn't hear a word you
said." "I wasn't praying to you," quickly
responded the parson.


﻿A WOMAN'S INVENTION.
	At the Mechanics’ Exhibition, now going
on at Faneuil Hall in Boston, is a novel and
ingenius invention of a woman. Fronting
the entrance to the Faneuil gallery is a
handsome bedstead, constructed of black
walnut and elaborately veneered, and is
quite a conspicuous object, receiving as it
deserves, a large share of attention. The
peculiarity of this necessary article of fur-
niture is that it affords a hiding place for
valuables, and is supposed to secrete them,
beyond the reach of a burglar, in a set of
drawers which occupy the space generally
wasted between the sideboard and beneath
the mattress. There are two large drawers
on each side of the bedstead which can be
opened like a bureau, and two smaller re-
ceptacles constructed between the aforesaid
drawers, access to which can only be gained
by removing the mattress and springs, and
in which the valuables are supposed to be
placed. This novel contrivance has been
invented and patented by Mrs. Benjamin
French, a Boston lady, who is deserving of
praise for her ingenuity. Arrangements
have been made for the manufacture of this
piece of furniture, which will be known by
the name of “The Boston Bedstead,” and
its practical utility will soon be demonstra-
ted.—"Woman's Journal.


A TEST OF FRIENDSHIP.
	It is one of the severest tests of friend-
ship to tell a man of his faults. If you are


angry with a man, it is not hard to stab
him with words, and looks, stinging him to
madness, or disgracing him in the presence
of his foes. But so to love a man that you
cannot bear to see the stain of sin upon him,
and to go to him alone and speak painful
truths in touching, tender words, that is
friendship, and a friendship as rare as it is
precious. Few, indeed have such friends.
Our friends are apt to pet us, and praise us,
and flatter us, and justify us in all we do,
and tell us that we are right, when we are
wrong, and they know it, and might correct
us, but do not for fear they shall hurt our
feelings. They allow our enemies to rip the
coverings from our faults and show us what
we are. If friends would reprove us more,
enemies would wound us less. Do you wish
to be my friend? Then tell me my faults to
my face. Will you do so before you are an-
gry? Will you still tell them to me, though
I am annoyed at your faithfulness? Will
you refuse to be an enemy, and not allow
yourself to be counted as a stranger, but
keep on in faithful dealing till you have won
me to the right? If so, I greet you and wel-
come you, for "Faithful are the wounds of a
friend, but the kisses of an enemy are de-
ceitful."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER. 

		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO.OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.							$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,							   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50  						    34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

