Vol. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1875.			No. 22﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

  	CALIFORNIA is to make a full exhibition
of her minerals, mines, wool, silk, fruits,
grain and fabrics at the centennial.
	HARTFORD IS terribly agitated with a
ghost which appears to have made a serious
impression on its inhabitants. The ghost
was first seen by a student of Trinity Col-
lege March 21st, and again on Monday night
by a watchman.
	A SECRET political organization is said to
have been started in Conn., the members of 
which pledge themselves to support Grant.
All its sessions are secret and all candidates
for admission are required to take the iron-
clad oath.
	IN ENGLAND, the women have a "Wo-
man's Protective and Provident League," a
"Woman's Educational Union," and a "Mar-
ried Woman's Property Act." Like the
women of America, they labor with una-
bated energy and perserverance to secure
their political rights, and to qualify them-
selves for the proper use of the same.
	THE CINCINNATI "Commercial" de-
scribes a "glorious spelling-match," which
came off in Pike's Opera House, the partici-
pants including editors, doctors, lawyers,
clergymen and merchants.  The house was
packed from pit to dome; it opened with in-
spiring music from the orchestra, and each
failure was followed by a shriek of discord
from the trombone. A brilliant gilt crown
was prepared for the champion speller, but
it did not adorn any victor's brow, every
one of the spellers failed.
	STRANGE FACTS are related concerning the
organ of vision. A schoolmistress in Eng-
land, who is blind, can readily tell if the
boys in a distant corner of the room are
playing instead of studying, while by a per-
son using the eyes no sound can be detected.
A few years ago there was a blind man in
England also, who was a surveyor and plan-
ner of roads, being guided by his ear in re-
gard to distances, as accurately as another
would be by the eye.  Much as the precious
power of sight is prized, and terrible as the
loss of it seems to those who have realized
its worth, it is wonderful to contemplate
that had we all been born without eyes, we
should never have thought of their value.


GOOD ENOUGH FOR HOME.

	“Why do you put on that forlorn old dress?”
asked Emily Manners of her cousin Lydia, one
morning after she had spent the night at Lydia’s
house.
	The dress in question was a spotted, faded, old
summer silk, which only looked the more forlorn
for its once fashionable trimmings, now crumpled
and frayed.
	“Oh, anything is good enough for home, ” said
Lydia, hastily pinning on a soiled collar, and twist-
ing up her hair in a ragged knot, she went down
to breakfast.
	"Your hair is coming down,” said Emily.
	“Oh, never mind, it’s good enough for home."
said Lydia, carelessly. Lydia had been visiting
at Emily’s home, and had always appeared in the
prettiest of morning dresses, and with neat hair
and dainty collars and cuffs; but now that she was


back again among her brothers and sisters, and
with her parents, she seemed to think anything
would answer, and went about untidy and rough in
soiled finery. At her uncle’s she had been pleas-
ant and polite, and had won golden opinions from
all; but with her own family her manners were as
careless as her dress; and she seemed to think that
courtesy and kindness were too expensive for home
wear, and that anything was good enough for
home.
	There are two many people who, like Lydia,
seem to think that anything will do for home.
Young men who are polite and pleasant in outside
society are sometimes rude to their mothers and
snarl at their sisters; and girls who among stran-
gers are all gaiety and animation, never make an
exertion to please their own family.
	It is a wretched way to turn always the smooth-
est side to the world, and the roughest and coars-
est to one’s nearest and dearest friends.


﻿WHAT ARE WE LIVING FOR?

	My dear Sisters. Daughters in Zion.
	I feel as though I could no longer hold my
peace, my heart is so full when I think of
all that lies before us to be done.  How
broad the field is in which we have volun-
teered to labor! And what great necessity
there is for our being firmly united in the
work which we have espoused.
	I would that I might do more than I have
power to accomplish, to assist in the great
practical work of the redemption of Zion
and the salvation of the human family.
And were my strength but equal to my
zeal, I feel that I might aid in "turning
some stones," in "binding some cords," in
"weaving some threads" for the good of the
common cause. As it is, I have no inten-
tion of remaining idle.  I can still knit and
darn stockings, braid straw, feed chickens,
make and mend common clothing and many
other such things which are of considerable
consequence in every-day life. But what-
ever I do, I want it to be done in the spirit
of meekness, with an eye single to the glo-
ry of God our Father, whose continued
mercies to me are "beyond the power of
tongue to tell." I want to bear my testi-
mony to you my sisters, that it is worth all
to live for the Celestial Kingdom of God and
to do the work which He assigns to us, no
matter what it may be. If he wants us to
raise silk and cotton and wool, and make
our own clothing, all right; let us do so
cheerfully and with thankful hearts.  If He
tells us by the mouth of His Prophet, that
it is best for us to produce and prepare our
food of every kind, let us do that also, and
feel blest in giving our children good, whole-
some sustenance that we know contains no
poisons or hurtful substance. Let us work
for the good of the world, for the building
up of the kingdom of  righteousness. For
all other efforts will surely come to nought.
Let us be wise and know for ourselves what
we are living for.  Let us live as saints
should live, in purity and humility; all for
the kingdom, not each for self alone. And
by and by, when the Temple is prepared,
and the city is ready, our dear Father and
Lord will come and visit us, and we shall
all know Him and be owned and accepted
of Him. Don't you think we will all feel
better then, to appear in garments of the


finest texture and the purest quality in all
respects, that have been made within the
borders of Zion, than we should, to be com-
pelled to confess that strangers were the
manufacturers, and that we had been pur-
chasing of "out-siders?" I think we should.
I'll tell you what, my friends, I am more
than ninety years old, but I hope to see the
time ere I "have shuffled off mortality,"
that I shall have a beautiful home-made
silk dress to wear at one of my birthday-
parties; and I invite you all to come to it.
	My heart is full of blessings for you all,
and may God bless you forever.
				RHODA RICHARDS.


ANGER.

	I think we have a very good subject for
our meeting this evening, and it is one
which we can all realize deserves our atten-
tion. I get angry very easily, but am try-
ing to overcome my ill temper, and striving
to correct my faults. If we do not cultivate
ourselves while we are young, it will be
much harder to accomplish when we are
older. We can begin by being more pa-
tient with our little brothers and sisters,
and speaking kindly to those at home.
Seek to cultivate a pleasing manner towards
all, and when we go into society, we will
be respected and esteemed by those with
whom we are associated.
	I heard the remark recently that it was
not always the prettiest girl that was most
attractive, or most beloved, and it is true.
The manners and conduct of a young lady
will secure the respect and esteem of those
at home and abroad, if she is careful in her
behavior and truly respects herself. No
true lady will cultivate a proud, haughty
disposition. We should pray continually
that we may be truthful for we are told in
the Bible that they who speak falsely have
their portion assigned to them, and they
cannot be trusted, for we cannot lock things
up from them as we do from thieves.
	May we have power to overcome our evil
propensities and walk in the path which
leads to eternal life. 		ROSEBUD.
	S. L. City, April 1st, 1875.


FLOWERS.

	THE best law—The golden rule.
	IN ascending the hill of adversity, may
we never meet a friend.
	LET not the grandeur of any man's sta-
tion render him proud and wilful; but let
him remember when he is surrounded with
a crowd of suppliants, death shall level him
with the meanest of mankind.
	WHEN Carlyle was engaged in writing
the life of Frederick, he had prepared a
special study apart from his library, whose
walls were covered with books and pictures
of which each one, without exception, was
in some way connected with the man of
whom he was writing.  They who are not,
even for a time, specialists, may neverthe-
less follow his example so far as to take care
not to surround themselves with distracting
objects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
TO A YOUNG MOTHER.

Life is young and love is tender,
	Passing joys are ever sweet;
Hearts that crave no worldly splendor
	Surely sweet content shall meet.

Those whose hearts are ever happy,
	Knowing not of life's deep care,
Know no name more deep than "fervent"
	For the earnest hour of prayer.

But in life there cometh sorrow,
	Cometh darkness and despair.
And the heart o'ercharged with burden,
	Often bows in "anguished prayer."

Life is young and love is tender,
	May its brightness ever shine,
May no sadness mar its splendor,
	May no anguished prayer be thine!
									M. J. T.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Young Ladies’ Co-operative Retrench-
ment Association of Bountiful, Davis Co.,
was organized October 27th, 1870.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, President,
	''	Nancy Willey, Vice-President.
	''    	Mary A. Call, Counselor
	Miss Lucy Fackrell, Counselor
	Mrs. Jane Holt, Counselor
	“      Eliza Dalrymple, Counselor
	“      Regena Stoker, Counselor
	“      Jane A. Hales, Secretary.
	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies’ Society, I will try to por-
tray the feelings of all. We have been
rather dilatory in sending in a report of our
Society, but think it better late than never.
	I presume many do not understand the
good, to be derived from meeting together,
and exchanging ideas with each other.
Many of our young ladies look lightly upon
this matter, and say, "I am too young; it
belongs to those who are more experienced.
I cannot speak in public." But how is ex-
perience to be gained except by trying? It
is the duty of young ladies to attend Relief
and Retrenchment Meetings, to speak and
encourage each other. In the future we
wish to become great and noble—not to gain
worldly applause, the aim is to spread sun-
shine and not shade, to help those who
stand in need, thus securing happiness to
ourselves while making others happy; we
have been instructed not to follow the vain
fashions of Babylon, but make our own
fashions. It is according to our professions
to appear in plain and comely attire, the
workmanship of our own hands, to strive to
be women of honor, full of integrity, make
choice of the words we utter, and the man-
ners we adopt; these are duties we owe,
not to ourselves only, but to those around
us. Modesty and virtue are the richest or-
naments that adorn a women. Our duty to
our parents should not be forgotton. The
gentlest, kindest care we can bestow upon
them is not too much, or more than they
deserve. There is a glorious future await-
ing the faithful; let us be up and doing,
trying to perform every duty that is requir-
ed at our hands.
		MARY E. WOOLSTENHULME.
			         Assistant Secretary.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, convened in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 3rd, 1875.
	That the meeting was one of particular
interest was manifested by the large attend-
ance and strict adherence to the subject now
being agitated, namely, HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies, and the read-
[Column 1]
ing of minutes by the young secretaries
from the different wards, spirited remarks
were made, appropriate to the occasion by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Z. D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. B. Smith; and also by Mrs. E. S.
Barney, relative to the straw work, silk
manufacture, the making of trimmings,
laces, flowers etc; duties devolving upon the
different Societies in accordance with the
counsel which has been given by Prest.
Young. Br. Jones who has been employed
by the sisters to prepare the mulberry cut-
tings, made suitable suggestions relating to
the cultivation of the mulberry-tree, its
adaptation to soil and its rapid growth. He
expressed his satisfaction with the course
the sisters were pursuing and wished them
ultimate success.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
HOW TO BECOME MOST USEFUL
			IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are
of being useful, but to become most so, I
can scarcely determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions up-
on this subject; many very talented persons,
who possess superior intelligence and in-
tellect, devote themselves, almost unreserv-
edly, to the pursuit of science—perhaps
some particular branch; and then, most gen-
erally, give the world the benefit of their
investigations; perhaps it has been a life-
work, then the whole world is the gainer,
consequently we may say, such have really,
led lives of true usefulness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the
energies they possess to obtain a comple and
thorough knowledge of how best to govern
and control the affairs of state. This class,
class if they really desire the interests of
the people and seek to make the condition of
their fellowmen better, must assuredly rank
among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist,
who, perhaps, denies himself that which
would be pleasant and agreeable to him, that
he may materially benefit others. He tries
by every means in his power to improve the
social condition of his fellowmen, and to
elevate them in the scale of being.  He
seeks, to raise up tnose who are bowed down
—to alleviate the suffering—to ameliorate
the condition of the captive, and, in short
we must acknowledge that his life, is to all
within his reach, useful and beneficial. 
	Others, again, live only to be useful in
the service of the Lord; caring little for the.
usages of society, they seek, not the praise
of the world, or the perishable thing which
pertain thereto; but labor to save the souls
of the children of men; to teach the princi-
ples of salvation, according to their peculiar
ideas, or religious beliefs; they too may be
accounted useful.
	There is still another class of useful men
and women, I will mention, who exercise
their brains, to invent all the several bran-
ches of mechanism; some one thing and
some another; these inventors, if success-
ful, are not only benefactors to the age in
which they live, but, in many instances, to
succeeding generations, and their names are
held in honorable remembrance; but to
mention each and every class separately,
would occupy too much time. There is an
endless variety of ways in which to be use-
ful both to ourselves and others, but, which
is the best or most successful way for each,
depends more or less on surrounding cir-
cumstances. And yet we may all arrive at
some general conclusions.

[Column 2]
	But perhaps you will say, I have more
particularly alluded to men. That is true;
men seem to take precedence in all these
things, and yet there have been women who
have filled prominent positions, with as
much dignity and credit to themselves, as
men. Women have ruled over nations,
been honored in their stations, and have
conferred as great benefits upon their sub-
jects, and given quite as much satisfaction,
(and in some instances more) as men; and
women have made themselves of great use
to the world, or the age in which they lived;
but I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent consid-
erable time, and I hope some of it profita-
bly in preparing to make myself useful to
others; but, as yet, I do not seem to have
accomplished much, comparatively, still I
have not been indolent, my time has been
almost entirely occupied, and I reflect a good
deal, how to make the best use of it possi-
ble. 
	There are a multitude of little trifles per,
formed every day, that seem nothing, and
yet each of these is of use—their worth
should be estimated by their numbers not
by their magnitude. 
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject,
but will sum up my ideas thus; the one who
helps most to do good to others, lives most
truly, a life of usefulness.			M.


For the EXPONENT.
		THE MORMON CREED.

	It is many years since I came into these
mountains; but in those by-gone days I fre-
quently heard what was called the "Mor-
mon Creed" alluded to.  But in these days
of calumny and ill report, I almost think the
memory of it is fast dying out.
	On hearing a scandalous story not long
since, I said I can't believe it without more
confirmation. And yet, how often such
stories are caught up and sent broad cast
through society to the ruination of a wo-
man's reputation; she is looked upon as a
low character, and sometimes treated by
those who ought to be her friends, as though
she were a fit inmate for a jail.  All this,
when perhaps she  committed no crime,
broken no law, not even done an intentional
wrong. Yet it may take a woman years to
live down such an influence.  How much
suffering and evil it would save, if we only
would stop to think "there are always two
sides to a story." Or if we would remem-
ber that the surest way to find out the truth,
is to go to friends for information, and not
to enemies. Then perhaps we should learn
to practice more the "Mormon creed," To
mind our own business.
			EMMA N. BINGHAM, OGDEN


DON'T, PLEASE DON'T.

	Don't tell the little one, who may be
slightly wilful, that "the black man will
come out of the dark cellar and carry it off
if it does not mind." Don't create a need-
less fear to go with the child through all the
stages of existence.
	Don't tell the little five-year-old Jimmy
"the school ma'm will cut of his ears"—
"pull out his teeth"—"tie him up"—or any
of the horrible stories that are frequently
presented to the childish imagination.
Think you the little one will believe any-
thing you tell after he becomes acquainted
with the gentle teacher who has not the
least idea of putting these terrible threats 
into execution?
	Don't tell the children they must not


drink tea because it will make them black,
while you continue to use it daily. Your
example is more to them than pretext; and
while your face is as fair as a June morning
they will scarcely credit the oft-told tale.
Either give up drinking the pleasant bever-
age or give your children a better reason for
its non-use.
	Don't tell them they must not eat sugar
or sweetmeats, because it will rot their
teeth.  Pure sugar does not cause the teeth
to decay, and sugar with fruits is nutritious
and healthy, notwithstanding the “old saw”
to the contrary. The case of city children
is often cited as if their cause of the pale
faces and slight constitutions were an over
amount of sweetmeats with their actual
cause is want of pure air and proper exer-
cise.—R. N. Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT LAKE CITY, April 5th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	My remarks at the meeting, March 6th
1875, concerning  the St. George Temple,
were misunderstood.
	It should read:—The last rock to make it
ready for the roof; and after the roof is put
on, seventy-three cords of red rock will be
used to complete the walls and pinnacles,
the roof being nearly flat, will be concealed
from the observer on the ground by this ad-
ditional wall.		Respectfully Yours,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD, March 27th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	I fear you are beginning to think the sis-
ters out in this ward are going to sleep.—I
wish to say, it is not so; they are doing the
best they can, with their surroundings; re-
sponding to all the calls made upon them,
visiting the ward, taking care of the sick,
and donating a little to the St. George Tem-
ple. The brethren and sisters of the ward
have donated nearly six-hundred dollars in
labor and produce towards building a new
house for the Society.
	With kind wishes I am yours kindly,
			SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.

				LEHI MARCH 23rd, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our branch of the Relief Society is still
prospering; we held our sixth ANNUAL
MEETING on the 28th of October 1874. EL-
DER WM. BATES met with us, encouraged
and stimulated us by his words of comfort
and excellent instructions. We truly real-
ized that promise of the Savior's, that
"Where two or three are gathered together
in His name He will be there to own and
bless them."  During the past year our dis-
bursments for charitable purposes amounted
to three hundred and forty dollars, we also
made ninety yards of rag carpet for our
Tabernacle. I thank God that a few of us
have done as well as we have, but Oh how
little in comparison to what might be done
if we were united; if the sisters could only
realize that these Societies were schools, to
educate them in their duties in life, and the
principles of the everlasting Gospel! Dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit we can exchange
thoughts and sentiments, mutually instruct-
ing each other, comforting those who are
in sorrow, teaching the daughters of Zion
to trust in God and lean upon Him. He
will not withhold any good thing from
them, if they will seek to carry out His will,
neglecting not the privileges they enjoy.
If we meet together from time to time and
seek diligently to become intelligent, order-
ing and controlling our lives so as to influ-

[Column 2]
ence others for good, earnestly praying for
the Spirit of the Lord to guide our efforts,
we may become as it were enveloped in a 
mantle which will protect us from contact
with evil, and give us power over those
with whom we may be associated.
	Praying God to bless you, and all the
faithful, I subscribe myself,
				Yours in the Gospel,
					M. Stand Ring.

	The First Annual Meeting of the First
Ward Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held in the School House of  that 
Ward, Apr. 2. 1875.
	The President and ladies of the Society
tendered an invitation and conveyance to
the President and Counselors of the Senior
R.A. and some other Presidents and officers
of Societies. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina
D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Ra-
chel R. Grant and others were present at
the meeting and spoke upon subjects per-
taining to the progress of the Society and 
Home Industries.
	The Bishop manifested the warmest in-
terest in the movements being made, and
everything was pleasant, except the weath-
er, which was very unfavorable; however
there was a crowded house, which proves
that all "are not asleep in Zion."
	After the adjournment of the meeting,
the Bishop and invited guests repaired to 
the house of the President, Mrs. Sarah
Graham, and partook of a supper prepared
for the occasion.


MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	I feel that I should like to mingle my
voice with my sisters, through the columns
of your valuable paper.
	I take great pleasure in reading the EX-
PONENT, but when I undertake to write, it
is with feelings of timidity that I venture
to pen a few lines for your consideration.
	The United Order is a subject that occu-
pies a considerable portion of my thoughts
and reflections. I am a member of the
United Order, and I truly believe the time
has come for us to begin to live in and prac-
tice it. And I think the brethren and sis-
ters who are working together here, feel to
live humbly, and strive to begin to love
their neighbors as themselves. How long
it will take to arrive at that state of perfec-
tion, I am not prepared to say, but it will
not be until we do away with a consider-
able amount of selfishness.
	Some seem to think when they join the
Order they can throw off all responsibility
and that the United Order will take care of
them and theirs.
	I do not look at it in that light; I think
every person should strive to build up and
do all in their power to make it a success,
work just as faithfully and diligently for the
support of a United Order family as they
would for their individual family.
	If it does not prove a success, the fault
will be with the people, and not with the
principle. I often think of a very little re-
mark of Brother George A. Smith, which
expressed a great deal to me. He said:
"Live humbly, very, very humbly." I
think we should all do this, and seek the Lord
diligently in prayer that we may not be led
into temptation, for it is my belief that the
enemy of righteousness will yet try harder
than ever before, to overthrow the Kingdom
of God. May the Lord help us to prove
faithful, is the desire of
		A FRIEND TO THE EXPONENT.


HE that revengeth knows no rest.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"GRANDMA," said a heroic little four
year old, "I'll help the Lord to chain that
old Satan, when I am a man.”
	IT is a lovely sight to see a bee sucking
honey, from a fragrant. flower; but it is a
still more beautiful sight to see a little child
storing up knowledge from a good and use-
ful book.
	SCHOOL inspector: "Now, Johnny, how
many can you count?" Johnny: "One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
ten." Inspector: "Good, Johnny, go on."
Johnny, (after a moment's thought): "Jack,
queen, king, ace."
	"MAMA," said a little girl on a Sunday
afternoon, "the teacher tells me that this
life is but given us by God, for a little while,
that we may prepare for a better world.
But, mother, I don't see any one preparing.
I see you preparing to go into the country
—and Aunt Eliza preparing to come here,
but nobody preparing to go to heaven. If
every body wants to go to heaven, why
don't they try to get ready?"
	A GENTLEMAN walking behind two school
children on Washing avenue, the other day,
day heard the boy inquire, "Will you be at
the party to-night?" "I shall be there," an-
swered the miss, "but I may as well tell
you now that your love is hopeless. Mamma
is determined, father is set, and it isn't
right for me to encourage your attentions.
I can be a sister to you, but nothing more.
Therefore you needn't buy me any valen-
tines or give me any more gum."


FORGIVENESS OF INJURY.

	An editor of a weekly paper published in
a little village in Missouri, called at the
White house and was admitted to Mr. Lin-
coln's presence. He at once commenced
stating to Mr. Lincoln that he was the man
who first suggested his name for the Presi-
dency, and pulling from his pocket an old,
worn, defaced copy of his paper, exhibited
to the President an item on the subject.
	“Do you really think,” said Mr. Lincoln,
“that announcement was the occasion of my
nomination?"
	“Certainly,” said the editor, “the sugges-
tion was so opportune that it was at once
taken up by other papers, and the result
was your nomination and election.”
	“Ah I well,” said Mr. Lincoln with a sigh
and assuming a rather gloomy countenance,
"I am glad to see you and to know this, but
you will have to excuse me, I am just going
to the war department to see Secretary
Stanton.”	
	“Well,” said the editor, “I will walk over
with you.”
	The President, with that apt good nature
so characteristic to him, took up his hat and
said:
	“Come along.”
	When they reached the door of the Sec-
retary's office Mr. Lincoln turned to his
companion and said:
	“I shall have to see Mr. Stanton alone,
and you must excuse me,” and taking him
by the hand, he continued:
	“Good bye. I hope you will feel perfect-
ly easy about having nominated me, Don’t
be troubled about it, I forgive you.”


"John!" exclaimed Mary, throwing her
arms around her bother's neck' "what sub-
stitutes can their be for the endearments of
a sister?" "Well," said John, "you see,
sis, that depends on whose sister it is."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL 15, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
			PERSONAL.
	President Grant is expected to arrive in
Boston on the 17th, as the guest of the 
Commercial Club......Josephine Mansfield
has recovered judgment against the estate
of James Fisk Jr. for $25,000, an effort is
being made to secure a new trial......Gen.
Ben. Butler is the attorney in a case, pend-
ing in the treasury department under very
peculiar circumstances, the case is a claim
for $50,000 for property seized in New Or-
leans for the use of The Northern Army by
Gen. Butler in command.  Butler now ap-
pears as counsel against the acts of Butler
as General......Smiler Colfax has made $60,
000 lecturing this season.....A box at
Patti's benefit in St. Petersburg was sold for
only $250.  At the conclusion of her recent
engagement in that city, she was presented
with a magnificient diadem of diamonds
and sapphires.....Mc. Carter, chief of the
bureau of engraving and printing has ten-
dered his resignation......Andrew Johnson's
speech on the 22d. on the Lousiana question
was at least three hours long......The Presi-
dent has signed the commission of John C.
New to be treasurer of the United States,
to take effect from June 30. 1875......The
Chinese have been celebrating the accession
of the new Emperor....The fourth son of
Bret Harte was born at Morristown N. Y.
on Monday March 15., his eldest is about
thirteen.  The death of his mother has
been recently announced. 

			FOREIGN.
	Madame Catacazy, wife of the former
Russian Minister to this country denies the
report of having separated from her hus-
band......The Emperor of Austria met the
King of Italy at Venice on the 4th of April
......M. Buffer says the New French Minis-
try is essentially conservative......The Jap-
anese educational fund is nearly doubled
this year......The Sultan of Turkey employs
in his palace 6,000 servants of both sexes
......Don Carloss has issued a decree calling
into service all males in the Navarrese pro-
vinces over eighteen years of age......Eng-
land exported last year 3,603,000,000 yds. of
cotton cloth......The Japanese opposition to
the Pacific Mail line between ports of Japan
and China has gone into operation......The 
fund which has been started in Denmark for
the erection of a statue to Hans Christian
Andersen already exceeds 18,000 crowns
......In the year 1821 a cutler of sheffield
presented Queen Caroline wife of George
IV with a pocket-knife containing 1,821
blades......At Berlin Prussia an institution
has been opened giving shelter and employ-
ment to orphan girls called "Maiden Home"
......The Emperor William of Prussia has
abandoned his journey to Italy on account of
ill health.

			GENERAL
	A Baltimore beggar has retired from bus-
iness with a fortune of $26,000.....Delaware
has appropriated $10,000 to the centennial
exhibition......The International Department
will send a competent geologist to examine
the Black Hills and ascertain accurately their
mineral wealth......As late as 1750 in Mass.
a colored woman was burned at the stake for
poisoning her master......Ex-Gov. Hale of
New Hampshire is recovering from his ill-
ness......Prof. G. W. Atherton of Rutgers
College has been tendered the presidency of
Howard University Washington D.C......Dr.
Van Courtlandt a geologist and physician
of great repute died at Ottawa Canada on
Thurs. March 25......Boston proposes to cele-
brate the one hundredth anniversary of the
battle of Bunker Hill June 17th by a grand

[Column 2]
parade of the entire state militia...... Sev-
enty millions of dollars is said to be an un-
exaggerated estimate of losses by fire in the 
United States in 1874......Mrs. Pratt of San
Francisco has applied for a divorce with a 
modest alimony of 1,000,000......In 1874 it
is asserted that San Francisco sent $1,400,000
in gold east to buy pork and lard......Major
Gen. John Williams Ex-Mayor of Rochester
a former member of congress and treasurer
of that City for the last two years died on 
Thurs. March 25th at the age of 68......The
new postal law doubling the pastage on pa-
pers etc. to non-subscribers is now in force
......Prof. Zaba lately from Europe is into-
ducing a new method of teaching History
by means of a chart......Assistant Attorney-
General Hill of Washington has offered his
resignation......There have arrived in Cal.
since Apr. 1, 1874, 33,197 emigrants by rail
......In Nevada there are 900 licensed hous-
es where liquors are retailed the population 
is 55,000......The construction of the Panama
railroad cost 82,000 human lives from death
by malaria.


THE BLACK SHEEP.

	The above term, as often applied to one of a
human fold, is a very significant, and to us, a
very painful one. It implies too forcibly
the rigid fact, that one born an "unfortunate,"
is doomed to bear ridicule and censure, rather
than to receive pity and charitable words and
acts—not so much from strangers as from broth-
ers and sisters, and even from the parents them-
selves whose folly or weakness has, in some
way, been the cause of the deficiency. It is al-
so a fact to be regretted, that these human
black sheep are, in so many instances, like sen-
sitive plants in their natures, making their fate
a still more pitable one.
	If parents could only understand that the en-
tire fault of such peculiar dispositions, such de-
formed minds being brought into existence, is
always, or nearly so, their own, certainly the
number born of unhappy beings would be less,
and the world less full of sorrow. If mothers
could be brought to realize, how much they
have to do  with the forming of the characters
of men ond women, ere they are given exist-
ence in the outer world, surely no pains taking
would be to great for them, in the matter of
producing good and noble, rather than inferior
offspring
		"Nature inviolate holds certain laws,
		There's no effect produced without a cause,"
	A woman cannot allow herself to be reckless,
disagreeable or in any particular that which
she ought not to be, and bring forth a sweet-
souled, lovely and in all respects perfect off-
spring. There may be nothing wanting of
beauty and comeliness in form and feature.
But desirable as ought which pleases the eye
may be, how much better to place upon the


earth a deformed body, or a visage severely
plain, containing a superior heart and brain, a
mind of great worth, than to burden it with a
deceptive charm, or a hateful, disconsolate be-
ing who can bring no sunshine for self or for
others.
	The common charge placed upon woman—
that she is alone to blame for all the evils that
are born with men—is, however an unjust one.
The great work of forming minds, is mainly
hers. But if man would stop to reflect upon
the subject, and be made aware of the import-
ance of his position and the course he takes in
relation to the peopling of the world, he would,
in many instances, be a better husband and act
a more generous and manly part than he does.
	A woman may be surrounded with all the
comforts of life, and yet be kept in a state of
miserable apprehensions, from which she
has not power to rise, by the indiscreet pro-
ceedings of an unwise man. If, by uncon-
trolable circumstances, her lot must be a hard
one, it may be rendered much more tolerable
by the care and sympathy and tender solicitude
of a kind and agreeable husband.
	When parents learn wisdom and practise it,
there will be no black sheep among their flocks.
There will be only loving and lovable beings
begotten and born, and the human household
will contain only happy and delightful circles
of precious, darling lambs.


HOME PRODUCTIONS.

		WOMAN'S AID SOLICITED.	

	"Custom's the world's great idol we adore,
	And knowing this we seek to know no more."
	The financial troubles of the nation are be-
coming so complicated and embarrassing, that
an appeal is being made to the women of the
country, to aid in stemming the flood of in-
debtedness, and lend a helping hand in rescu-
ing and retrieving its falling fortunes; simply
by purchasing home productions, goods with-
out a foreign mark. It has indeed become a
“mania" in aristocratic circles, to wear for-
eign goods; polite society in its progressive ad-
vancement repudiates whatever is cheap, easy
of access, or inclined to simplicity.
	To be salable, it has become so essential that
the finer qualities of goods should have a for-
eign mark, that in many instances home pro-
ductions are sold under the head of "IMPORT-
ED" a word which possesses a mysterious fas-
cination, and a magic charm with these votar-
ies of fashion, these favorites of the "sterner
sex."
	And for what purpose are they thus arrayed,
and who are their admirers, who follow in
their wake, in the halls and realms of fashion?
Who worship at their shrine, who lauds their
beauty and magnificence their incomparable
charms, their manners "A la Parisienne?"
	Is it not the very men, who are now asking
them to retrench—is it not for them they have
adorned themselves, that they might win their
admiration? At least, that is about the only
consideration or recompense vouchsafed; as for
love, or sentiment, men of business, have no
time to indulge in anything so trivial.
	When men will pay court to ladies in simple
toiletts without ornaments, and accord to them
the same distinguished courtesies which char-
acterize their attentions to those who are elab-
orately and daintily "gotten up," then women
will believe they mean what they say, and
practice what they preach.
	Millions of dollars are sent abroad annually
for these costly fabrics, for which GOLD must be
paid; and while this incessent drain continues,
panics will be inevitable, and eventually, unless


some permanent stoppage is effected, a tre-
mendious and overwhelming crash.  It is said
by those who are raising their voices in this
matter, that it is the women who demand and
use these superfluities, and it is for them to act
against the "tyranny of mode." But are wo-
men more culpable in this respect than men?
In short is it not the same frivolous, shrinking
behind woman's skirts to screen themselves
which has been inherited in them from the
days of father Adam?  How much money is
expended yearly for liquors of all kinds with
foreign brands, cigars, perfumaries etc? to say
nothing of the French kids, jewelry, and
watches of foreign manufacture.  Think you the
ladies wardrobes will out-balance in cost the
sum-total of your own individual expenditures?
Yet you call upon women to make an effort to
stay this formidable current meantime your
own demerits are unmentioned—is this fair?
	It will not require any particular sacrifice,
there will be no need of leagues or clubs or any
such useless palaver, say they, only a "practical
movement." Oh no! certainly not, nothing of
this sort ever does.  Gentlemen you are labor-
ing under a serious mistake. Women know
full well that when they attempt to step out of
the groove designated by the reigning monarch
"A la mode," they become a mark of criticism;
and though their motives are as pure as those
of angels, they will not escape the cutting, bit-
sarcasms of those who cannot understand or
appreciate any superior strength of mind or
elevation of character.
	Consistency is a rare jewel, and while men
call upon women to help in extricating them
from difficulties, meantime ridicule and sneer
at their untiring efforts to lead out practically
in any laudable and praise-worthy undertak-
ing, which will effectually aid in a general re-
form, and give women a more thorough under-
standing of financial matters, they must ex-
pect to be outwitted.
	When they can believe, that women are en-
titled to equal rights and privileges, in all mat-
ters which pertain to their mutual interests,
and will encourage them in their true position
acknowledging there are zealous workers in
the field, aiming not so much for "the ballot,
the bench, and th pulpit," as for a keen appre-
ciation of their powers.  Then there will follow
a decisive revolution which will give the
world a better standard from which to judge 
woman.
	S. L. City, Apr. 13, 1874.		B. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

MRS. L. G. RICHARDS:
	I send you a note written by the Bishop of
the 1st Ward, S. L. City, and request its pub-
lication as an advertisement of the specified
movement of one very useful branch of Home
Industry.
	I consider each successful Branch of Home
Manufactures, an additional stone in laying the
foundation for the upbuilding of Zion—in our
becoming a self-sustaining people. To make
it successful, it must be supported by the influ-
ence and encouragement of the saints; and this
cannot be done by waiting with folded hands
and doubtful looks, to see whether it proves a
failure or success. May the latter be the result
of this worthy effort of the saints in the 1st
Ward.
	S. L. City, April 5. 			E. R. SNOW.

	SALT LAKE CITY, March 23rd, 1875.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW,
	DEAR SISTER:—The 1st Ward Branch of the
United Order commenced about the 1st of Feb-
ruary, to knit women's and girls' stockings and
men's and boys' socks, and other wear. We have


one machine working and when we have pat-
ronage enough we will have more to supply the
demand, and we expect to supply a better arti-
cle, and as cheap as any imported. Will you
please use your influence among the sisters to
sustain us in our Home Industry and in carry-
ing out the counsels of President Brigham.
Young?
		Your Brother in the Gospel,
					J. WARBURTON,
					Bishop of 1st Ward.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	HON. DAVID P. Lowe, Chief Justice of Utah,
arrived Apr. 10, and is stopping at the Walker
House.
	PROF. KARL G. Maeser is to deliver his inter-
esting lecture, "Characteristics of youths of
different ages and nations," under the auspices
of the 12th Ward Literary Association, Friday
evening, Apr. 16. Free admission.
	AT A MEETING of the stockholders of Z. C.
M. I. Saturday afternoon, Apr. 10., a vote was ta-
ken which resulted in Hiram B. Clawson and
Theodore McKean being elected as superin-
tendents of the institution.
	A DENTAL College and infirmary has been
established in this city by Dr. W. H. H. Sharp.
Students desiring to learn dentistry will be
carried through a two years' course of instruc-
tion.
	WE ARE pleased to note the safe return to
her home and friends in this city, of Mrs. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, who has been in attendance at
the Free Medical College for Women, and the
Eye and Ear Infirmary in New York City, for
fourteen months. It was a long time to be ab-
sent from the loved ones, and we hope she finds
them all well, particularly the "darling baby!"
	THE SUBJECT of free schools is vehemently
discussed at present by the "Philomathes" in
this Territory. Whether the establishment
of free schools should prove the result or not,
we hope to see liberal instructions disseminated
throughout the land, wise measures taken and
true principles taught, by which good, thor-
ough, practical educations  may be placed with-
in the reach of all.
	THE LATE general conference, which was
held six days in succession instead of three,
was one of peculiar interest in some respects.
President Brigham Young was present at each
meeting, looking and feeling well. He presid-
ed, and also addressed the conference on sever-
al occasions, one discourse in particular, being
given chiefly for the benefit of the sisters.
Notwithstanding the first four days of the
conference were stormy and disagreeable, there
was a good attendance at the Tabernacle.


﻿A VIEW OF POLYGAMY.

	I do not blame women in the common
course of life for looking upon polygamy, as
it is practiced among the Mormons, with
horror; or for considering it an abomina-
tion. It seemed little less to me once, al-
though I was born of Latter-day Saint par-
entage, and reared in these valleys of the
mountains. At an early age I began read-
ing the works of the church. I thought I
read understandingly, and that I found
things in the Book of Mormon which did
not corroborate the teachings and practices
of the Latter-day Saints. Still it was not
this alone, or principally that made me look
upon polygamy as a very objectionable fea-
ture in our religion. But a few years ago,
our fathers and mothers, and elder brothers
and sisters did not know as much as they
have since learned about living in plurality.


And some of them used sometimes to ap-
pear fretted and miserable over trifling
things, which I, in my ignornce, attributed
to their being in polygamy; just as many
others have done. But for all this, I never,
for one moment in my life, felt to doubt the
truth of Joseph Smith’s being a chosen pro-
phet of the living God. And by and by I
began to realize the great inconsistency of
believing and advocating every portion of
the gospel except one principle, and leaving
that for others to speak and act upon. So I
asked the Lord to make me understand why
polygamy was necessary among His people.
And, true to His promise, “Ask and ye shall
receive,” my eyes were opened and my un-
derstanding quickened, so that I see for my-
self, that no principle pertaining to the gos-
pel was ever of greater importance to the
Saints, than is that of plural marriage in
this dispensation. It seems to me, almost
the greatest item in the plan of salvation at
the present day, for without it, I can see no
possible chance for the redemption of the
world from its sunken and darkened state.
	When the women of the world, those
who wish to be pure and to do good,
come to understand the principle, it will
no longer seem to them a degrading and
loathsome thing, but the exact opposite;
and they will not only be willing but
eager to embrace it. Of this I am sure;
and may the Lord hasten the time, and His
name be glorified.
						MABEL.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	We are still alive in Providence and en-
joying a goodly flow of the Spirit of God
and of our religion. We have had a good
time during the past winter; have not had
many dances, but have had good and well
attended meetings, especially our Society
meetings! I never enjoy myself better
than when attending them. I think if all
the sisters would attend these meetings and
carry with them the Spirit of God, knowing
that they are trying to do their best for
each other and to serve God, it will assur-
edly result in good. Through the past win-
ter I have been reading some of the early
history of the Church. Among other things,
concerning Parley P. Pratt’s imprisonment
and escape. Surely the brethren must have
had great faith in God and He was always
mindful of them. He heard their prayers
and answered them. I feel that He is just
as mindful of us in these days. We cannot
but acknowledge the Hand of God in the
deliverance of Brother Ricks from impris-
onment. We can see that the devil cannot
have it all his own way; especially if the
brethren and sisters are united in offering
up their prayers for the welfare of the
kingdom.
	The Lord will not forget His children as
long as they do not forget Him.
	I will mention that our Relief Society
is arranging for a party some time this
month, the proceeds to be given for the
benefit of our new Hall. I will conclude,
praying God to bless and prosper you in the
noble work of disseminating knowledge.’
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					Elizabeth N. NYE.
	Providence, Apr. 5. 1875.


THERE IS no truth in the report that Jen-
ny Lind is keeping a "singing school;" she
is not a millionaire but is in possession of
sufficient means to pay her board-bills.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PEOPLE WILL TALK.

			SELECTED.

We may get through the world, but ‘twill be very slow,
If we listen to all that is said as we go;
We’ll be worried and fretted, and kept in a stew,
For meddlesome tongues must have something to do.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know,

If quiet and modest, you’ll have it presumed
That your humble position is only assumed— 
You’re a wolf in sheep’s clothing, or else you’re a fool—
But don’t get excited—keep perfectly cool.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	Oh yes, they must talk you know.

If generous and noble, they’ll vent out their spleen,
You’ll hear some loud hints that you’re selfish and mean;
If upright and honest, and fair as the day,
They’ll call you a rogue in a sly, sneaking way.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

And then, if you show the least boldness of heart,
Or a slight inclination to take your own part,
They’ll call you an upstart, conceited and vain;
But keep straight ahead and don’t stop to explain.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

If threadbare your coat, or old-fashioned your hat,
Some one, of course, will take notice of that,
And hint rather strong that you can't pay your way,
But don’t get excited whatever they say,
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

If you dress in the fashion don’t think to escape
For they criticise them in a different shape.
You’re ahead of your means, or your tailor’s unpaid,
But mind your own busiuess, there’s naught to be made.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

They’ll talk fine before you, but then at your back,
Of venom and slander there’s never a lack;
How kind and polite, in all that they say, 
But bitter as gail when you’re out of the way.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

The best way to do is to do as you please,
For your mind, if you have one, will then be at ease;
Of course you will meet with all sorts of abuse,
But don’t think to stop them it is of no use.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.


﻿HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Poor diet and consumption.—A Mass-
achusetts physician says that poor diet tends
to produce consumption.  And that those
who live on “slops” are the most likely to
suffer from it. Wholesome food and pure
air are the remedies for it.
	A SUBSTITUTE FOR TEA.—The best sub-
stitue for tea, the “Herald of Health” says,
is nourishing food and rest when exhausted.
A bowl of rich oatmeal gruel, made with
milk, will serve a better purpose than tea.
Even a bowl of beef tea with bread may at
times be substituted if preferred. Let them
be taken at regular meal times, and then af-
ter eating rest for half an hour, thus giving
the stomach a chance to use the forces of
the system of digestion. Few know the
value of a half hour’s restafter eating. Many
dyspeptics would find it almost a cure for
their troubles.
	APPLES AS FOOD.—An eminent French
physician thinks that the dyspepsia and bil-
ious affections in Paris, have been greatly
decreased by the abundant use of apples as
food. He maintains that this fruit is an ad-
mirable prophylactic and tonic, as well as a
very nourishing and easily digested arti-
cle of food. The “Herald of Health” says
that “the best time to eat apples is soon af-
ter breakfast, so that they may form a part
of the morning meal. They are an almost
sure cure for constipation and liver com-
plaint.”
	THE SEWING MACHINE.—We see articles


occasionally on the hygiene of the sewing
machine. Those who are interested in the
study of health, and have made female dis-
eases a speciality give it as their opinion
that the moderate use of the muscles of the
lower limbs is beneficial in this, as in every
other form of labor, that use strengthens the
organs, and that while the use of half the
body is not so conducive to health as if the
whole frame were exercised, it is certainly
better than no exercise at all, as is also the
case in sewing by hands.  The result of a
series of observations made by eminent
physicians in France and England, has been
in favor of this artificial motive power.
Other European and also American authori-
ties confirm these opinions, especially the
Massachusetts State Board of Health.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Flavor for Frosting.—In frosting for cakes or
puddings a little lemon juice, tartaric acid or cream
of tartar is a very pleasant addition to the taste,
besides making the frosting much lighter.
	To Preserve cut Flowers.—Fill a saucer with fine
sand, piling it up in the center somewhat, in the
form of a mound.  Moisten the sand and arrange
your flowers in it, and they will keep fresh several 
days.
	Coldslaw.—Yelks of two eggs; a tablespoonful
of cream; a small teaspoonful of mustard; a little
salt; two tablespoonfuls of vinegar.  If cream is
not used, put in a small lump of butter rubbed in a
little flour.  Cut the cabbage very fine; heat the
mixture and pour it on hot.
	Cleaning Oil Painting.—Remove the picture
from the frame, keep a coarse towel over it several
days, until it has drawn all the filthiness from the
picture—pass some linseed oil, which has been a
long time seasoning, over it in the sunlight and the
picture will be purified and as lively as new.
	Venison Steaks.—Cut them from the neck, sea-
son them with pepper and salt.  When the grid-
iron has been well heated over a bed of bright coals,
grease the bars, and lay the steaks upon it. Broil
them well, turning them once, and taking care to
save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve
them up with some currant jelly laid on each steak.
	Cornmeal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one pint
grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown sugar,
one of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, a half
teaspoonful of ginger and two  cinnamon, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful soda; slice soft, juicy ap-
ples, and add one teacupful, if liked; bake half an
hour.  Sauce—cream and sugar.
	Housework Hints.—If stove polish is mixed
with very strong soapsuds, the lustre appears im-
mediately, and the dust of the polish does not fly
around as it usually does.  Dry paint is removed
by dipping a swab with a handle in a strong solu-
tion of oxalic acid.  It softens at once. Water
lime applied with a dry, soft cloth, will give glass
a nice, clear east.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill;
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish.  It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a
long time; fine grained apples generally make the
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	Fricassee of Fowls Brown.—Broil as for pot-
pie, then fry slowly in butter until browned;
toast bread and lay it on the platter under the
chicken. Pour a little of the broth in the spider
with the browned butter, thicken with flour, season
to suit, and pour it over the chicken; or if you
want it very nice, add the butter for the gravy to

[Column 2]
the butter in which the chicken was browned;
dredge with flour, add salt and pepper, brown well,
and lastly add the chicken broth.
	A Good Cake when Eggs are Scarce.—One pint
of cream, one pint of sugar, yolks of three eggs,
soda, if cream is sour, and soda and cream of tar-
tar if cream is sweet; flavor to taste; flour enough
to form a moderately stiff batter; bake in a loaf if
you want a plain cake, or in layers if you want a
jelly cake or cocoanut cake; make stiffer and put in
two cups of fresh, best currants, and you have a 
nice, plain fruit cake.  This cake receipt should be
named 'hard times cake,' as it is valuable to a per-
son whose supply of butter, sugar and eggs is limi-
ted.
	Novel Way of Making Jelly Cake.—Take the
whites of six eggs, one cup white sugar, same of
flour, tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls
sweet milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, and one of
soda.  Bake in a large oblong dripping pan, so the
cake will be very thin.  Meanwhile stir another
batch, making just the same, with the exception of
using the yelks instead of the whites; when both
are done, spread while warm, between with jelly or
preserve juice of any kind, put together; bring the
largest side of the cake toward you, and roll imme-
diately; or cut in four or eight parts, put together
alternately, putting jelly between each layer, and
frost lightly over the top.


INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS. 

	WIVES.—Women should know that no
beauty has any lasting charm but the inward
one of the mind, and that a gracefulness in
their manner is more engaging than that of
their person; that modesty and meekness
are the true and lasting ornaments; for she
who has these is qualified, as she ought to
be, for the management of a family, for the
education of children, for the affection of
her husband, and submitting to a prudent
way of living.  These only are charms that
render wives amiable, and give them the
best  title to our respect.
	A “Hoosier” reporter says: “If he speaks
of things as they are people get angry. If
he glosses over or smooths down the rough
points, he is bribed.  If he calls things by
their right names, he is unfit for the posi-
tion of a reporter.  If he doesn't furnish
his readers with jokes, he is a mullet.  If
he does he is a rattlehead, lacking stability.
If he condemns the wrong, he is a good fel-
low, but lacks discretion.  If he lets wrongs
and injuries go unmentioned, he is a coward.
If he exposes a public man, he does it to
gratify spite—is the tool of a clique, or be-
longs to the "outs."  If he indulges in per-
sonalities, he is a blackguard If he does
riot his paper is dull and insipid."
	ARAB INGENUITY.—A gentleman who
rode his own mare in the course of an east-
ern tour, asked his Arab attendant if he
was quite sure she always got her allowance.
"Oh, yes," he replied; "my countrymen of-
ten steal from one another, and rob their
friends’ horses, but I can always find out if
your mare has been cheated;” “How?’ “I
always put some pebbles in with the barley
—seven or eight—and count exactly how
many I put in. The mare never eats the
pebbles, with it.  If I find the pebbles short
in the morning, I have hard words, and
they cannot tell how I know, so they give
up cheating her."
	AN INTELTIGENT EQUINE.—After the
death of Crawton, the milkman who was
frozen to death on Woodward avenue early
Sunday morning, his brother determined to
carry on the business, but at the outset was
met by a discouraging obstacle in the fact


that he had no list of his brother's custom-
ers.  Suddenly a happy thought occurred to
him. He got into the wagon, with his cans
and tickets, on Monday morning, and giving
free rein to the little black pony formerly
driven by his brother, was gratified to find
that the intelligent animal made the long
circuit without hesitation, and stopped at
every house where his master had been in
the habit of supplying milk.—Detroit Post.
	A NEW Orleans paper tells of a printer
who, when his fellow workmen went out to
drink beer during the working hours, put
in the bank the exact amount which he
would have spent if he had gone out to
drink. He thus kept his resolution for five
years. He then examined his bank account
and found that he had on deposit $521.86.
In the five years he had not lost a day from
ill health.  Three out of five of his fellow
workmen had in the meantime, become
drunkards, were worthless and were dis-
charged.  The water drinker then bought
out the printing-office, went on enlarging
the business, and in twenty years from the
time he began to put by his money, he was
worth $100,000.
	LOVE OF CHILDREN—If I were to choose
among all gifts and qualities, that which on
the whole, makes life pleasantest, I should
select the love of children. No circum-
stance can render this world wholly a soli-
tude to one who has this possession. 'If I
value myself in anything,' said the lonely
Hawthorne, 'it is on having a smile that
children love.' They are such prompt little
beings, too; they require so little prelude.
Hearts are won in two minutes at that frank
period, and so long as you are true to them,
they will be true to you. They have a
hearty appetite for gifts, no doubt, but it is
not for these that they love the giver. Take
the wealth of the world and lavish it with
counterfeited affection; I will win all chil-
dren's hearts away from you by empty-
handed love.  In visiting a house where
there are children, I do not like to take
them presents; it is better to forego the
pleasure of the giving than to divide the
welcome between yourself and the gift.
Let that follow after you are gone.—T. W.
Higginson.
	THE THIEF'S VICTORY.—A good many
years ago one of the most notorious thieves
in the United States had a confidential con-
versation with a gentleman who is now one
of our most efficient detectives, and express-
ed a desire to reform.  "Why do you wish
to live so much on the square?" said the
gentleman. "Because," replied the thief,
"I have a wife and children to whom I am
very much attached; they have no idea of
the mode in which I am making my living;
the children are growing up, and are begin-
ning to wonder why I leave home so often,
and what I do; and if ever I am to reform
now is the time." The gentleman warmly
approved the idea, and to further it, loaned
the man several hundred dollars with which
to begin an honest business.  The reformed
man at once broke off all his associations,
lived perfectly honest, would have no dis-
honest person call on him, devoted himself
for years closely to business, raised his fam-
ily respectably, did a great many acts of
unostentatious charity, and died not long
since esteemed by all who knew him. His
children are doing well and are highly re-
spectable.  The money advanced was long
since repaid.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"SAY, Smith, where have you been for a
week back?” “I haven’t been anywhere
for it. I haven't got a weak back."


﻿			FAITH.

	BY A MEMBER OF THE RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATION OF THE FIRST WARD S. L. CITY.

	Faith is the first principle in the religion
of Jesus Christ. Therefore without faith it
is impossible to find God or to please Him.
It is the moving cause of all our actions, and
by diligently seeking after God, we exer-
cise faith or belief in reward for all the good
we do, and that if we do no good we merit
no reward.
	The faith that we enjoy is the same as
that enjoyed by the former day Saints; thus,
we understand our duties towards God and
each other the same as the ancient Saints
did.
	When true faith is planted in good soil, it
grows and gathers strength; and this living,
growing faith is that which begets know-
ledge, wisdom, power and wealth. Because
of our faith, we search for those things we
wish to possess, and our pursuit will be, as
Christ said, according to our faith. Faith
in God and in His gospel is that which
prompts men and women to endure trials;
through this men leave their homes, wives
and children, and travel in foreign lands
and upon the islands of the sea. Not that
they expect to receive money for their la-
bors, but the faith they have in God, and the
desires they have of doing good for His
kingdom, in which they have hopes of re-
ceiving a glorious inheritance.
	Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God, by
faith endured many hardships and finally
suffered martyrdom, for the faith he had in
the goodness and power of God to restore all
things to those who serve him. By faith
thousands of Latter-day Saints have been
gathered from different parts of the earth,
leaving all that was dear to them, save their
hope in Christ, and crossing the mighty
ocean in search of a country they had never
seen nor known anything about. By faith
they travel and by faith they obtain many
promises, which, through their steadfast-
ness to the faith, will all be fulfilled.
	Jesus said, "The just shall live by faith."
by our faith we progress from the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel to the greater; by it
the sick are healed, the blind see, the deaf
hear, the lame walk. Without this kind of
faith no one can find out the true God or
the true way to salvation. Yet with it, we
suffer all things cheerfully with the hope of
receiving a just reward in the future.
					EMILY HILTON.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary White of Braintree, Vt., cel-
ebrated her one-hundredth birthday last
week, five generations together at tea.
	MISS Marian I. H. Allen, of Shrewsbury,
who was re-elected a member of the School
Committee for three years, has just comple-
ted her fiftieth term of school.
	MRS. Lucinda Parker of North Reading,
Mass., will be one hundred years of age
next October. Save a little deafness, she
has full use of her faculties.
	MISS Mattie Strickland, daughter of Hon.
Randolf Strickland ex-member of Congress
from Michigan, is delivering lectures in
Iowa upon the Suffrage question.
	MRS. James K. Polk has presented the
Tennessee Historical Society with a pen
made from an eagle's quill, dropped by an
eagle in Virginia, and presented to Presi-
dent Polk in 1845.
	A MOVEMENT for the higher education of


women is making rapid progress in Italy.
The Princess Margaret of Italy has placed
herself at the head of it, and attends every
week a reunion in Rome for its encourage-
ment. Her example has been followed by
many Italian ladies of rank.
	MISS Augusta Moore, who lately testified
in a certain famous case, according to the
New York Tribune could out-talk the law-
yers, bullied them on the cross-examination,
instructed the Judge, and came out of the
conflicts triumphant. Her cordial contempt
for the man against whom she testified was
only equaled by her inflexible determina-
tion to free her mind, no matter what the
lawyers might do or say to hinder.
	MRS. Mary Blake Clapp, of Dorchester,
died at Warwick, recently. She was born
in Warwick and has distinguished herself
by her acts of benevolence towards the peo-
ple of her native town. The day she was
eighty years old she gave to the Unitarian
Society one thousand dollars. Since, she
has given them one thousand more. She has
given one thousand dollars to the town for
the care and repair of the cemetery, also a
large number of volumes of books to the
town library. Mrs. Clapp also, a few years
since, gave $4000 to "Lincoln University," 
in Chester County, Pa., to found two scolar-
ships for the benefit of colored students in
that institution.
	THE school for girls established by the
third wife of the Khedive of Egypt, which
is one the greatest innovations the country
of the Pharaohs has ever seen, is turning
out a great success. The lady bought a
large house in a thickly peopled locality,
near the dancing dervishes, erected around
it a quadrangle of spacious buildings, hand-
ed them over to the education department,
but herself defrays the whole cost of main-
tenance. The school is free to all, and
when it had been open only four months
there were 206 boarders and 100 day schol-
ars, all Arabs or slaves. They discard the
oriental vail, and are dressed in frocks, pin-
afores and shoes, in English fashion; and
they sit, not squatting on the ground, but at
desks.


THE latest census returns show the ex-
istence of more trades and professions
among women than one would suppose pos-
sible. Beside women farmers, there are 45
female stock-herders, 5 barbers, 24 dentists,
5 hostlers, 3 professional hunters and trap-
pens, 5 lawyers, 525 physcians, 97 clergywo-
men, 7 sextons, 10 canal women, 129 dray-
women, 1 pilot, 4 gas stokers, 33 gunsmiths,
7 gunpowder-makers, 16 ship riggers, with
a large number of artizans, mechanics, in-
ventors, telegraph operators and teachers
of navigation.
	A QUARTER-inch rod of the best steel will
sustain 9,000 pounds before breaking; soft
steel, 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000; copper wire, 3,000; sil-
ver, 2,000; gold, 2,500; tin, 3,000, cast zinc,
160; cast lead 50; milled lead; 200. Of
wood, box and locust the same size will
hold 1,200 pounds; toughest ash, 1,000, elm,
800; beech, cedar, white oak, pitch pine,
500; chestnut and maple, 650; poplar, 400.
Wood which will bear a weight a minute or
two will break with two-thirds of the force
acting a long time. A rod of iron is about
ten times as strong as a hemp cord. A rope
an inch in diameter will bear about two and a
half tons; but in practice it is not safe to sub-
ject it to a strain of more than about a ton.
Half an inch in diameter, the strength will
be one quarter as much; a quarter of an inch,
one-sixteenth as much, and so on.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.

	POSSIBLY you never heard of a Mr. Ris-
tori, but he lives and moves and has his
being as much as she does.
	THE hardest thing to hold in this world is
an unruly tongue. It beats a hot smooth-
ing-iron and a kicking horse considerably.
	A CERTAIN editor is so prejudiced that
when he writes about the difficulty in Mon-
tenegro he insists on calling it 'Montenig-
ger.'
	THE JULIET of Miss Lilian Conway is
pronounced a great success; her mother,
Mrs. T. B. Conway taking the part of Ro-
meo.
	WOMAN CANNOT equal man in a variety
of ways—for instance in loafing round the
store, in a country post-office, or in the orig-
inality of her stupidity.
	COOL piece of business—Mr. Bergh ar-
resting New York coachmen for not blanket-
ing their horses. Kind of a nice bergh
way of doing things.
	"I GUESS I'll take this book," remarked a
Chicago lady to the clerk of a bookstore;
"It's got twice as much gold leaf on the
cover as any of the rest."
	"WHAT'S jography, Bill?" "It's a tellin'
of forrin lands that we know nothin' about
by cute chaps that's never seen 'em." Bill
got a Government situation.
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage some time since, and rushing to the
hall she called up  stairs: "Mother! am I
engaged to anybody now?"
	A WISCONSIN editor says: "Owing to the
death of the editor of this journal there will
be no leader to-morrow, but look out for an
old ripper the day after.
	"IDIOT!" exclaimed a lady coming out of
the theatre one evening as a gentleman ac-
cidentally stepped on her trailing skirt.
"Which one of us?" blandly replied the
man.
	"YOUR feet are not very stylish," said a
man to his friend, whose feet were covered
with bunions. "No, not stylish; but ex-
ceedingly nobby," was the good-natured re-
ply.
	"A PLACE for everything, and everything
in its place," as the old woman said when
she stowed the broom, bellows, balls of
yarn, two doll-babies, curry-comb, three cats
and a gridiron into an old oven.
	"MR. Smith's compliments to Mr. Brown,
thinks it unnecessary that his piggs should
go through his grounds." Answer—"Mr.
Brown's compliments to Mr. Smith, thinks
it unnecessary to spell pigs with two g's.
	AN Irish peasant being asked why he
permitted his pig to take up quarters with
his family, made an answer abounding with
satirical naivete: "Why not? Doesn't the
place afford every convenience that a pig
can require?"
	IT certainly looks a little odd when a mar-
ried couple are visiting at a friend's house
to see his wife accidentally lay her hand
upon a coal shovel, and the husband, as if
by instinct, dodge behind the nearest ob-
ject that can afford him shelter.
	JUST as a train started out on the Great
Western road the other day, a woman leaned
forward and called to her husband, who was
ten feet away: "Say, Simon, did you wash
your feet and change your socks?" "No,
by swan!—forgot all about it," he replied.
"Well," she said, as she leaned back, "I

[Column 2]
feel it in mybones that there's going to be
a smash-up afore we get to London, and if
you are killed I'll just pretend I didn't know
ye."


ADVICE BY FLORENCE NIGHTIN-
			GALE.

	The following extracts from a letter written
by this esteemed lady to a correspondent,
will be read with interest:
	"I could not do what you asked me to do
in your kind letter of July 12th—viz., give
you information about my own life; al-
though, if I could, it would be to show how
a woman of very ordinary ability has been
led, by strange and unaccustomed paths,
to do God's service. I have worked hard,
very hard, that is all; though being natur-
ally a very shy person, most of my life has
been very distasteful to me. I have no pe-
culiar gifts, and I can honestly assure any
young lady, if she will but try to walk, she
will soon be able to run the "appointed
course." But then she must first learn to
walk, and so, when she runs, she must
run with patience. (Most people do not
even try to walk.) But I would also say to
the young ladies who are called to any pecu-
liar vocation, qualify yourselves for it as a
man does for his work. Do not think you
can undertake it otherwise. No one should
attempt to teach the Greek language until
he is master of the language; and this he
can become only by hard study; and if you
are called to man's work, do not exact a
woman’s privileges—the privileges of inac-
curacy, of weakness, ye muddle-heads.
Submit yourselves to the rules of business,
as men do, by which alone you can make
business succeed. 
	It has happened to me more than once to
be told by women, "Yes, but you had per-
sonal freedom." Nothing can well be fur-
ther from the truth.  I question whether
God has ever brought any one through more
difficulties and contradictions that I have
had. But to women I would say, look upon
your work, whether it be an accustomed
or an unaccustomed work, as upon a trust
confided to you. This will keep you alike
from discouragement and presumption; from
idleness and from overtaxing yourself. I
have been nine years confined, a prisoner,
to my room from illness, and overwhelmed
with business. This must be my excuse
for not having answered your questions be-
fore. Nothing, with the approval of my
own judgment, has been made public before,
or I would send it.  I have a strong objec-
tion to sending my own likeness, for the
same reason. Some of the most valuable
works the world has ever seen, we know not
who is the author of.  I do not urge this ex-
ample upon others; but it is a deep-seated
religious scruple in myself.  I do not wish
my name to remain, nor my likeness.  If I
could really give the lessons of my life to
my countrywomen, the lessons of my mis-
takes as well as of the rest, I would; but for
this there is no time. I would only say
work—work in silence at first—in silence for
years—it will not be time wasted. Perhaps
in all your life it will be the time you will
afterwards find to have been best spent."


LESS than one hundred years ago, when
Dr. Franklin was Postmaster General, the
whole number of post offices in the United
States was 75; the length of post roads 1875
miles; the revenue $37,935; and the ex-
penditures $32,140. Now the whole number
of offices is 33,224; the length of post-roads
255,210 miles; the revenue $22,996,741,57,
and the expenditures $29,084,845,67.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	DR. Glenn, said to be the largest farmer
in California sold his last year's crop of
grain for nearly $500,000, gold coin.
	THE consumption of ice has greatly in-
creased in this country during the past five
years. As illustrative of this fact, it is sta-
ted that in 1854, 300,000 tons of ice met the
demands of the people, while now one firm
has put up 880,000, and other parties have
packed as much more.
	BOSTON has been panic-stricken on ac-
count of the scarcity of water, and not with-
out reason, for the water in Lake Cochitu-
ate has been 14 feet below the highest wa-
ter mark, and several inches below the out-
let. The city got water only through the 
agency of two powerful steam pumps run at
the expense of $800 per day.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
				CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	- 	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-   	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
