VOL. 3		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1875.			No. 24


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE EMPRESS of Japan cautions her young
lady friends, about talking loudly on the 
street like the vulgar "American girls."
	AMONG THE new fashionable combinations
of colors, the dirty green with black trim-
ming is the least agreeable to any complex-
ion.
	THE QUESTION of granting to women a
license to preach, has been decided in the
negative by the Northern Indiana Metho-
dist Episcopal Conference, on the ground that
discipline and usage forbid it.
	MRS. Dr. W. W. Lovejoy died recently
from the effects of an over-dose of gelse-
mium, taken for nervousness.  Cases of this
kind are becoming so frequent, that too
much care cannot be taken to avoid such ac-
cidents.
	LATE TELEGRAMS contain most heart-
rending accounts of a great disaster at sea.
The steamer "Schiller" was totally wrecked,
more than three hundred persons meeting
death by drowning.  Some of the ship's
passengers were saved, but what a terrible
experience for even those.
	ON THE 28th of April, a terrible fire oc-
curred in Oshkosh, Wis.  The burnt district
is a mile square; all the banks, offices, etc.
are burned, the safes were fire-proof.  Two men
were killed by a falling wall; more than
two hundred families were left homeless.
The loss is estimated to be more than two
millions.
	TOO FAST or too slow, too much or too lit-
tle, one extreme or the other.  So the peo-
ple move, so they talk, in a manner so
they live, all over the known world.  Yet
there is a happy medium if we can only ar-
rive at it.  And the day of salvation has
dawned, the real light is being diffused in
the midst of the inhabitants of the earth
though they comprehend it not.  The leaven
of the Lord is working, His purposes are
being fulfilled, truth will triumph.
	SAMUEL R. Wells, Professor of phrenolo-
gy, died of typhoid fever, at his residence
in New York city, April 13th. He was
widely and favorably known as an editor,
publisher, journalist and lecturer.  He was
born in West Hartford, Conn., 1820. He
recently established a very valuable Month-
ly, entitled “The Science of Health." He
was an earnest advocate of temperance and
other reforms, and was one of the few who
demonstrated in practice the principles he
inculcated.
	A LARGE Monument in honor of Colum-
bus, is to be erected in the city of Mexico.
It has been designed by Cordies, a French
sculptor; he visited Italy and Spain in order
to examine portraits of Columbus, deemed
authentic. The figure of Columbus is to be
supported by four monks; besides the base
bearing a Latin inscription, there are to be
two bas-reliefs on the base of the monument,
one representing the disembarkation of
Columbus, the other the construction of the
first church in San Francisco. It will stand
in front of the principal entrance of the
Palais de l'Industrie.


OUR CHILDREN.

	Thanks for the EXPONENT, that we as
parents can speak through its columns.
	In the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
page 160, Sec. 22, and par. 4, we read:
	"And again, inasmuch as parents have
children in Zion, or in any of her stakes
which are organized, that teach them not to
understand the doctrine of repentance," &c.
"the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
And they shall also teach their children to
pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
And the inhabitants of Zion shall also ob-
serve the Sabbath day to keep it holy."
	Now if these things are faithful and true,
as the Lord has said, and we have had over
forty years experience, with practice on
them, in what light must we as parents be
looked upon, whose children are running
the country over on the Sabbath day—whose
children are not taught to pray, or to walk
uprightly before the Lord according to the
instructions of the Lord? We have the
history of ancient Israel, written for our
example; see Gen. xviii chapter, 17, 18, 19
verses; here it is said that Abraham re-
ceived blessings and knowledge, because
the Lord knew that he would keep his com-
mandments, statutes and laws; and would
command his children and household after
him; also Gen., xxvi chapter, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
and 26 verses; here Isaac is blessed and has
promises made to him, and is told it is be-
cause of the faithfulness of his father Abra-
ham in keeping the charge of the Lord;
while those who kept not the Lord's com-
mands, their blessings were turned into
cursings. See Numbers, xiv chapter, from
the 24 to 45 verses inclusive; also First
Book of Samuel, iii. chapter, 11 to 14 verses
inclusive; also Jer., xxxv chapter, 12, 13,
14 verses; also Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants, 246 page, 6 and 7 par.; in this last
quotation F. G. Williams and S. Rigdon are
both held under condemnation because they
did not keep the commands of the Lord con-
cerning their children.
	How is it mothers? How is it fathers?
How have the children been educated? Have
they been restrained? Ye Elders of Israel,
high priests, seventies and elders, have yon
properly taught your sons, and placed before
them, the necessity of keeping the charge
of the Lord? Many of your sons have
been in the house of the Lord, have received
ordinations, with blessings and powers to
open the store-house of knowledge concern-
ing the eternities; and they can be seen by
the half dozen or more on the Sabbath day
desecrating their holy callings and making
themselves vile. Listen, Oh, ye Saints, re-
frain your sons from all their evil practices;
and do not pass lightly these things, as did
Eli, lest grievous sorrow come upon you.
Be warned!					ETA.


MISS Joanna Chandler, of London, Eng-
land, was one of the founders of the National
Hospital for the Paralyzed and Epileptic.
That institution was established by this
lady, her sister, and a  brother, some fifteen
years ago.  It now maintains 100 beds, and
an extensive out-patient department. The
brother is the only survivor of the three.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Anna E. Dickinson has gone South,
on a lecturing tour.
	MRS. Bayard Taylor is translating her
husband's history of Germany, into the Ger-
man language.
	TWO ladies were elected as overseers of
the poor at the recent town meeting in Pem-
broke.
	Vinnie Ream has taken eight degrees of
Free masonry, the honors were conferred by
Albert Pike.
	MISS Arch, daughter of Mr. Joseph Arch,
the champion of the English agricultural
laborers, has appeared as a lecturer, with
considerable success, in the provinces.
	MRS. Jepson, an English woman who was
born deaf and dumb, told a mission school at
Lowell; the other day, that she had ac-
quired the power of speech entirely by the
efficacy of prayer.
	MISS S. E. Ely, the Librarian of the pub-
lic library of Holyoke, Mass., has prepared
a new and conveniently arranged catalogue,
making a volume of 220 pages, without
closing the library while at work upon it.
	MRS. J. Ellen Foster, of Clinton, appears
before the Davenport term of the Iowa Su-
preme Court, as Attorney in the case of Os-
wald vs. Hays. This is the first instance of
a woman appearing as an advocate in a
cause before the Iowa Supreme Court.
	MADAME Bonaparte lives in Baltimore,
she is now ninety years old. She has been
to Europe sixteen times, and contemplates
going again this summer.  She is said to
possess more intelligence and vivacity than
many of the fashionable ladies of the pres-
ent day.
	QUEEN Victoria compliments Miss Emily
Faithfull, editor of Women and Work, in
this style: "Her majesty the queen wishes
Miss Faithfull every success in the laudable
undertaking by which new branches of in-
dustry are opened to the female portion of
her subjects.
	FRAU Dreyshock a teacher of vocal music
in Berlin, recently led the performance of
Schuman's "Rose Pilgerfahrt" in that city.
This is said to be the first time the con-
ductor's baton has been publicly placed in
the hands of a lady at a first-class musical
performance.
	IT may not be generally known that
Queen Victoria, though not actually on the
staff of any public journal, nor regularly en-
gaged to perform editorial work, sometimes
does contribute leading paragraphs, if not
leading articles, in the daily paper self-enti-
tled "The leading journal of Europe."
	MRS. Watson, wife of Professor Watson of
the Michigan University, was the only wo-
man who enjoyed the privilege of going on
the transit expedition from the United
States. She had a long journey—first an
overland trip to San Francisco, then a voy-
age lasting twenty-six days to Yokohama, a
four days' sail to Nagasaki, and another six
days to Tien-tsin. Then followed a voyage
up the river on small house-boats to Tung-
Chang; and finally a donkey ride of sixteen
miles to Pekin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		FRIENDSHIP'S TRUST.
	Treasured in the heart's best keeping,
		Nestled midst its tenderest thoughts;
	Lives a memory fresh with gladness,
		With most sacred feelings fraught.
	Let not e'en the gentlest zephyr,
		Breathe this secret on the air,
	Lest it lose its timid fragrance,
		Most exquisite, rich and rare.
	Sweeter than the new-mown clover,
		Filling all my soul with bloom;
	Or the morning breath of violets,
		Heavy laden with perfume.
	Rarer than the choicest nectar,
		Which "the Gods" exultant drain,
	Thrilling every nerve and fibre,
		Which the human heart contain.
	In the far, uncertain future,
		Midst its changes, grief, or pain;
	Gathered closely to my bosom,
		Shall this precious trust remain.
	Time may bring me joy, or sorrow,
		Those now dear may colder grow,
	But this friendship true and constant,
		Never must estrangement know.
	Hushed be every thought, or feeling,
		Which engender doubt or fear,
	Cherished fondly every impulse,
		That would render life more dear.
									EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 4th, 1874.			E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at teh Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 1st, 1875, was one of
unusual interest. Notwithstanding its be-
ing a "gala-day" the hall was crowded; the
speaking was spirited and inspirational.
President Mrs. M. I. Horne in addressing
the sisters upon the main subject of inter-
est at the present time, the establishing of
Home Industries, alluded to a remark made
by Sister E. R. Snow that those who en-
gaged in this work had the opportunity of
doing more towards building up Zion, than
the Elders who preach the Gospel abroad;
she believed it was a much greater work to
teach people how to live their religion at
home than to convert them. Counselor E.
R. Snow referred to the minutes of the
young ladies, and the increasing testimony
they were receiving in regard to the truth
of the Gospel, said this knowledge was only
received through revelation. She gave an
interesting sketch of her visit to Cedar
Fort, Fairfield and Lehi, where she had met
with the young people, who all seemed anx-
ious to be organized, gentlemen as well as
ladies; she had done a great deal of talking
in regard to the movement now in progres-
sion, and thought that more especially among
the young people, her labors had been ap-
preciated.  Many instructive and applica-
ble remarks were made by Counselors Z. D.
Young, P. Woodruff, and E. Howard, also
E. S. Barney upon the different branches of
Home Manufacture. Sister E. A. Whitney
sang "a song of Zion" which thrilled through
every heart in the whole assembly. Some
business relating to clothing for the Indians
was also transacted.
	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Co., April 30, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It being some time since the organization
of the "Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation" of Ephraim, I am requested to
write you in regard to the association. Our
meetings were suspended during the win-
ter, but were again resumed on the 6th of
last March. Our President, Miss Carrie
Jensen, is anxious to have the meetings
[Column 2]
continue, that we may become useful. We
all hope that in time, we may be of some
use in the kingdom of God.
	Respectfully,
		HELEN E. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	BOUNTIFUL, DAVIS Co., April 20th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is prospering. We
intend having a Fair next month, the pro-
ceeds to go towards building a new hall.
Many of our sisters seem to realize that this
work is a mission placed upon them, and
are willing to forward it to the best of their
ability.
	I give here a few particulars of our last
meeting. Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. Bar-
ney, Mrs. Steel and Mrs. Snider from Salt
Lake City were here; Bishop Call and other
gentlemen were also present.
	Meeting was opened with prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. Young. A Circular was read before
the meeting, soliciting the united influence
of the sisters, in sustaining Home Manufac-
ture.
	Mrs. Barney made some very excellent
and spirited remarks on Home Industry
showing how very necessary it was for us to
be a self-sustaining people, and help to
builb up Zion, &c.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young spoke on silk culture,
told how to raise Mulberry Trees. Encour-
aged the sisters to raise silk-worms, so that
silk and ribbons might be made in our midst.
Counseled them to cultivate the spirit of 
God, and give their children good teach-
ings.
	Several other ladies spoke on different
branches of Home Industry.
	Bishop Call spoke words of comfort and
encouragement to the sisters, he felt that
they held a high and responsible position
and could accomplish a great deal towards
building up the kingdom of God.
	Other Elders present made some very ex-
cellent remarks. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifested in our midst to our great
joy. We realized the Holy Spirit in our
hearts, bearing witness that we were ap-
proved by our Father in heaven.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Benediction by Elder Atkinson.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President.
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
Minutes of a Meeting, for the Organization
of the Young Ladies of the 13th Ward, S.
L. City.
		Residence of Prof. C. J. Thomas,
						March 13th, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing, "O my Fa-
ther &c.—On motion of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant was chosen to preside
over the meeting—Prayer by Mrs. Z. D.
Young—Singing, "Joy to the world, &c.
	Pres. Mrs. Grant spoke concerning the ob-
ject of the meeting, after which Mrs. Eliza-
beth Goddard was appointed Secretary pro.
tem., and the organization of the Rentrench-
ment Association effected as follows, by
unanimous vote, viz.:
	Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas, President,
	Miss Flora Shipp,		}
	"	Mary Ann McClean,}
	"	Ruth Woolley,		}
	"	Lillie Taylor,		}	Counselors.
	"	Lucy Stringam,	}
	"	May Wells,		}
	"	Louisa A. Ashby, Secretary,
	"	Annie Park, Assistant Secretary.
	On motion Miss Ruth Woolley was ap-
pointed to lead in Singing—Miss Annie
[Coumn 3]
Park was chosen Organist and Mrs. Fannie
Y. Thatcher Assistant Organist. After
which twenty-three young ladies were ad-
mitted as members, by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Grant then addressed the Associa-
tion, exhorting all to be punctual in attend-
ance at meetings, and not let any trifling
consideration stand in their way. She re-
lated some of her own experience by way
of encouragement, in overcoming diffidence
by practice—how she had gradually gained
confidence, &c.
	Sister Grant was followed by Sister E. R.
Snow speaking words of encouragement to
the young ladies—bearing testimony of the
power of the Gospel, that the same mani-
festations were now produced as were expe-
rienced when Jesus and the ancient apostles
were on the earth. She said it was the
privilege of the young as well as the aged
to be in possession of the gifts of the Gos-
pel, such as healing the sick, prophesying,
speaking in tongues, interpreting, &c. That
the Spirit of God produced the purest and
greatest happiness that mortals can enjoy.
She related very interesting incidents that
occurred in the Kirtland Temple, and ex-
horted her young sisters to live for eternal
blessings, and fulfill the object of their
birth, by becoming noble women, saviors on
Mount Zion &c. Said she would like an
expression whether to fill the offices unto
which they had been chosen.
	Each of the young ladies arose by turn,
and expressed their satisfaction in being
present and participating in the privilege
which was accorded, and not only a willing-
ness but a determination, to fill their posi-
tions and discharge their duties in faithful-
ness.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young expressed her pleasure
in being present on this occasion. Testified
to having witnessed many manifestations of
power by the out-pouring of the Spirit of
God. Had heard singing of angels, seen
the sick healed, and she bore testimony that
many are made whole through the adminis-
tration of the sacred ordinances. Spoke of
the first time she read the Book of Mormon,
and how sacred it seemed to her. Exhorted
the young ladies to improve their great
privileges, &c.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards and Mrs. E. Thomas
gave much useful instruction—bore corrobo-
rative testimonies of the power of God
which they had witnessed in, and from their
childhood up to the present, and counseled
the young sisters to live for, and attain to a
fulness of blessing. 
	Meeting adjourned for one week—Sing-
ing, "Praise God from whom &c. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Goddard.
					L. A. Ashby, Sec.
	SALT LAKE CITY May 10th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President Mrs. Rachel
Grant, I hand you the Sixth Annual Report
of the 13th Ward Relief Society meeting,
held in the 13th Ward Vestry, April 22nd,
1875. Showing that the Receipts, with a
small balance from last Report:
Amount in cash to.........................$208 00
Disbursed to the needy,.................. 206 10
	Leaving a balance in cash of.......90
Merchandise, clothing, etc., in Trea-
	sury from last report, valued at 80 00
Receipts in same during the past
	year......................................... 115 85
Disbursed to the needy................... 110 55
	Leaving a balance valued at..... 91 02


Cash invested in 13th ward Co-op
	and Saving Bank, with interest
	of the same, amounts to.......... 376 66
Work estimated........................... 28 75
	The meeting convened for reading the
Report, was well attended by the sisters a
good spirit prevailing.
	President Mrs. Grant regretted that so
little had been accomplished in the shape of
work, but was well pleased with the general
spirit of the meetings. Felt glad that we
were increasing in numbers and improving
in the good work, manifesting a more ear-
nest desire to be united, and be useful in
the Kingdom of God. Expressed a desire
to encourage and sustain Home Manufac-
ture.
	The sisters donate freely towards the
building of the Temple and other laudable
purposes. Most of them I believe, feel in-
terested in, and appreciate your valuable pa-
per.
	ELIZABETH H. GODDARD Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FEMALE JOURNALISM.
	Extracts from a paper read in the "Sec-
ond Woman's Congress," by Mrs. Malloy,
connected with the press at Elkhart Indi-
ana. Woman is pre-eminently fitted for the
profession of journalism. There are hun-
dreds of women in America, who would be
a grand acquisition to the profession; aud I
am surprised that there are not more
choosing it. Newspaper work however
means business, and a lazy person cannot
be a successful editor. The person who en-
ters the journalistic work, expecting to find
it a plant that will thrive in a soil of in-
dolence, will be grandly disappointed. But
to the woman who comes to the work,
bringing all her talents, her heart and her
persistence, success is inevitable. Woman's
talents, her intuitions, her adaptability, as
well as her remarkable patience, are all in
her favor.
	The idea that women are not as thorough
in details as men are is an erroneous one;
let a woman educated as a reporter, walk be-
side the male reporter, aud she will see as
much again in a walk down street as he will,
and can draw just as largely upon her im-
agination. Girls employed in offices are
just as efficient as men, and much more re-
liable, for they never get on a "spree."
Women will purify newspaper literature,
dignify the type of journalism, of which so
much has been said, and written.
	No obscure or corrupting advertisements
will appear in their columns; and the effect
of such literature upon crime will be dimin-
ished.
	The successful country publisher, must
have fine executive, as well as financial abil-
ity; indomitable energy and perseverance-
large hope, suavity and benevolence: all
these requisite qualifications form element;
ary parts of woman's nature.
	The newspaper should be the family edu-
cator, and woman's tact, and woman't heart
is much needed in that line: we need more
heart in our journalism.
	If we were to judge of a city by its news,
papers, we should conclude that all affection-
feeling or even respect for the dead were
forgotten in the whizz and whirr of busi-
ness.
	There is just as much difference in jour-
nalists as there is in other folks; the true
journalist occupies a position much more
enviable in the public affections than the
physician. The world is full of hungry
hearts, and the journalist who meets their
demand, will never lack for work to do.
Journalists, like poets, "are born, not made."
[Column 2]
	There are many women in American, who
possess this faculty to a happy extent; there
are few perhaps, who could evince such
striking originality as Mrs. Swissholm, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Soule, Mrs.
Livermore, or Mrs. Julia Ward Howe; so
striking, that every newspaper in the coun-
try is glad to copy their original utterances.
But notwithstanding all this, many a woman
can make herself necessary in a community
as a journalist.
	We can't all be great women or men, but
we can dignify the humbler places, by do-
ing our work well.
	I do not believe that every woman could
be a successful journalist, but that many a
fine journalist is at the present time, pining
in milliner and dress-making shops, and
over the wash-tubs and ironing-boards. I
have tried all these branches, and was a
miserable failure in them all; but in journal-
ism I have succeeded, at least, pecuniarily;
this work never seemed a burden to me,
while the others were too grievous to be
borne. There is less opposition to encoun-
ter in this business, than in any other of the
professions so largely occupied by men. The
men in this profession are usually the large-
hearted, most liberal, unselfish and charita-
ble men in the world.
	In newspaper life you move with the world.
We need more journals to work for the de-
velopment of our resources, and for reforms.
Woman has hungered and thirsted for a
larger field of action, until it is late in the
afternoon of the nineteenth century. It is
vain to wait for man's hand to open the
door, and press the sweet chalice to your
lips; she who would be free must herself
strike the blow. And with a few hundred
women journalists in this country, ready to
strike for the right—I would be willing to
risk the elevation, prosperity, happiness and
final emancipation of American women;
emancipation from all folly, yea, in the
broadest sense of the word.


WHAT A WOMAN SHOULD BE.

	Personal attractions most girls possess, at
any rate in a sufficient degree to render
them attractive to somebody; for, although
there are standards and models of beauty,
yet these do not prevail with all persons.
There is something wonderful in the differ-
ence of aspect which the same face wears to
different beholders. Probably the philo-
sophical explanation of this is, that what is
hidden from all others becomes immediately
and instinctively apparent to the eye of love.
How can a moderately good-looking girl in-
crease her attractions? By culture. She
must cultivate her mind. An ignorant, il-
literate woman, if even she attracts atten-
tion, cannot retain the interest of an intelli-
gent man. She must do this by reading, by
study, by reflection, and by familiar con-
versation with the best and most highly ed-
ucated persons with whom she comes in
contact. But the heart must be cultivated
as well as the head. "Of all things," ex-
claimed a most refined gentleman after
nearly a lifetime's familiarity with the best
society, "of all things give me a softness and
gentleness in a woman." A harsh voice, a
coarse laugh—trifles like these—have often
spoiled many a favorable first impression.
The cultivation of the heart must be real,
not feigned. A woman who studies to ap-
pear, rather than be, good and generous,
seldom succeeds in deceiving the opposite
sex in these respects. She who, in truth,
seeks earnestly to promote the happiness of
those around her, is very apt soon to obtain
admirers among men. Above all other re-


quisites in a woman is conscientiousness.
Without this one touchstone of character,
no matter what her charms and acquire-
ments, she cannot expect to command the
lasting regard of any man whose love is
worth having.—Glasgow Weekly Mail.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	ENGLAND has 800,000 more women than
men.
	A sixteen-pound cauliflower is the latest
astonisher in San Bernardino.
	EMIGRANTS to the number of 34,255 have
arrived in California overland since the first
of April last year.
	OVER 100 houses are contracted for in
Santa Rosa, all to be erected during the
coming summer.
	THE Steele Bros. of San Luis Obispo
have sold $200,000 worth of land within
the last ten months.
	THE shipment of oranges and lemons
from Los Angelos this season will average
in value $40,000 per month.
	FRANCE has 123,000 manufacturing es-
tablishments, using steam-power of 500,000
horse power and giving employment to
about 800,000 hands.
	DURING January 8,890 gallons of free
soup were furnished in Boston to 10,739
families, comprising 50,365 persons, at the
expense to the city of $1,823.


FLORAL HINTS.
	Those who love flowers, and to see them
growing, will be sorry to know that the
oleander is dangerous. A single drop of
the juice which exudes when a twig or leaf
is broken off, is sufficient to produce the
death of an infant. Children have been
poisoned by eating the flower petals. Cat-
tle have died from browsing on its foliage.
Lovely as it [ink blot] we must in view of
these facts [ink blot] part with it. I is al-mv
so proven [ink blot] exhaled from it is
deleterious to health.
	“About Fuci[--]s."—A lady writing to
"Ladies Floral Cabinet," says she re-
pots Fuchias in May, puts them on the
north side of the house giving them but
little water. In summer they drop most
of their leaves, bring them in the house be-
fore the frost comes and water freely, giv-
ing them liquid manure about once a month;
also soot tea is excellent, as it sweetens the
earth. By observing these directions the
plants will bloom all winter; they will grow
so fast after a season of rest as to astonish
you. Carnations do equally well by keep-
ing them in the ground in summer in their
pots and pinching off the buds until August.
All carnations do not bloom in winter.
	Calla Lily.—This plant will flower in
spring if not in July. Place them for two
months in full sun; after that shake them
clean out, and repot; grow on as usual, and
they will flower the next year.


MRS. Pollen of Lexington, Mass., placed
upon her house the legend "A greater war
now in progress the rights of woman—
1875."
	MRS. Elizabeth Tuttle of East Boston
now in her 100th year, ascends two flights
of stairs and dresses and undresses without
aid. She never has a fire in her bed-room,
not even in the coldest weather.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENET.
		L. GRENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine, Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00: A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
Address all business comunications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 15, 1875


SPLINTERS.
		GENERAL.
	Dr. Linderman. director of the mint, has
been assigned by President Grant, to invcs-
tigate Mississippi Valley for the most suita-
ble location for a mint......The sheriff of
New York city has issued attachments against
the property of Tweed.....Mr. A. B. Stone
of Cleveland purchased at auction in St.
Louis the Mississippi Valley and Western
Railroad for $600,000.....The Public School
Teachers’ Association of Baltimore have
raised $1500 to erect a monument to the
memory of Edgar A. Poe......The British
government has sent a frigate to survey
Baffin’s Bay and the North Atlantic......May
4th, Senior Antonio Cautilla who represents
the Spanish Republic, presented his creden-
tials to the President as Minister from the
King of Spain......$50,000 damage by fire at
Tompkinsville, N. Y., May 8th......The har-
bor of Buffalo, N. Y., is gorged with ice......
Hard times in Missouri in consequence of
grasshoppers, chintz-bugs, etc.....Ten Chi-
namen have received the rite of baptism in
 the Baptist Church at Portland in Oregon
........$50,000 damage by fire at Black Rock
near Buffalo, N. Y......Vice-President Wil-
son made a speech at Nashville, Tenn., May
6th......Oregon promises fine crops this sea-
son......Heavy seas, several ships recently
lost......Fifteen thousand dollars worth of
jewelry and watches were lately stolen from
an Albany jewelry store in one night.
			FOREIGN.
	Gladstone and Lord Kinnacid have at-
tended some of Moody and Sankey's revival
meetings in London; these meetings are be-
coming not only populat but fashionable.....
The Spanish government have paid to the
United States the last of the Virginius in-
demnity......Union League Club House at
the corner of 26th and Madison Avenue N.
Y. was considerably damaged by fire on the
25th of April; loss $36,000.....The Roths-
childs have issued a prospectus of a new
Russian loan of $15,000[ink splot] per cent
interest......The ceremo[ink splot]ist wash-
ing the feet of His Apostle[ink splot] evived on
Good Friday of this year by Dr. Bagshawe,
Roman Catholic Bishop, of Nottingham Eng-
land......Hepworth Dixon is writing a new
book on America, suggested by his recent
visit here......The Bishop of Breslau in
Prussia has been required to resign his office;
he refuses to comply with the conditions of
the decree......The King of Spain has con-
ferred on Prince Bismarck the order of the
Golden Fleece......At a recent sale in Lon-
don a letter of Queen Mary brought $405,
one of Queen Elizabeth $410, autographs of
Mary Queen of Scotts $285, of Burns $300
......The Khedive of Egypt has established
three judgeships to be held in his capital by
English lawyers......A woman's temperance
club has been organized in Calcutta, the first
movement of that kind ever made in that
far-off country......The Prince of Wales was
installed as Grand Master of the United
Grand Lodge of Masons at Royal Albert Hal
April 28th, in presence of a large assembly
......Count de Harcourt has been appointed
French Minister to London.........Dispatch
May 6th, from Bombay says the Cholera is
prevailing in the city of Baroda.........Mr.
Forsyth, M. P., says the Woman Sufferage
Movement in England was never brighter
in its prospects than now......Judge Kerros,
United States Consular Agent at Brest, is
dead;..... The Lord Mayor of Dublin gives a
banquet to the American rifle team on their
arrival; the Lord Mayor of London will be
present in state......It is rumored the arrest
[Column 2]
of the Madrid professors will bring about
the fall of the Spanish Ministry.
			PERSONAL.
	Senior editor of the Boston "Evening
Transcript," Henry W. Dutton, died April
15th, aged 79 years......Dr. Hartwell Carver
died in Pittsford near Rochester, N. Y.
April 16th; he was one of the first advo-
cates for connecting the Atlantic and Pacific
by railroad......Commander Leroy Fitch, of
the U. S. N., died at Logansport, Ind,, April
13th......S. R. Stephens, the sculptor, is dead.
Col. Charles Green, editor of the "Boston
Post,” retires from journalism after forty-
four years service........Michael Levy, the
well-known Paris publisher, is dead.....The
Pope is under the care of his physicians.....
Mr. Stillman Witt, a prominent railroad man,
and citizen of Cleveland, Ohio, is dead......
Stephens, the sculptor of the unfinished
monument to Wellington in St. Paul’s Ca-
thedral, is dead......The late General Shiras
was a physical curiosity, never having de-
veloped any teeth......Mr. Curtis S. Burn-
ham has been appointed Assistant Secretary
of the U. S. Treasury......Jean Frederick
De Waldeck, the famous traveller and artist,
died very recently in Paris aged 110 years
......The Marquis of Loraine and his wife,
the Princess Louise, intended making an ex-
tended tour through the United States this
summer......The notorious Bender has been
for some time confined in Arizona, but lately
escaped......Ex-Speaker Blaine and Secreta-
ry Bristow are reported aspirants for the 
Presidency.


SPEAK WITH A PURPOSE.

	Prominent among the leading follies of the
day, and one which should be assiduously
guarded against, is the senseless, idle gossip so
common in society. Friends meet and they
must say something, whether there is anything
of importance to communicate or not. If
nothing of more consequence is at hand than
the whims, peculiarities or even short-comings
of neighbors and acquaintances, these must be
ruthlessly canvassed. And in all such conver-
sations, everything must be worked up in the
most brilliant colors, to highten vivacity and
increase interest.
	It is a common thing to spend half a day or
an evening in social chat, and then take leave
of friends without feeling in the smallest de-
gree benefitted. Once is a while a friend is
met with, who has a mind stored with profita-
ble knowledge, which is dealt out whenever
the lips are opened for utterance. Never un-
duly grave, speaking with animation and pro-
priety, adorning even timely jokes with intelli-
gence. Two minutes conversation with such a
person refreshes the spirit, gladdens the heart,
and gives more satisfaction than days or weeks
spent with the commonalty.


All this helps to prove, that the display of
vanity, rather than the exercise of wisdom, is
popular; and that, certainly, a great reform
should take place in this matter.
	So much is said to no purpose, or that is pro-
ductive only of evil, that it would evidently be
better for the world if two-thirds of its inhabi-
tants spent two-thirds of their time in silence.
Yet silence is not a necessity, or the best reme-
dy for the evil in question. Conversation of
the right sort is agreeable and good. The
world is full of beautiful and pleasant things,
and there is no end to the intelligence which
may be gained.  It is as easy to talk of these
things as to talk fashionable "little nothings,"
if knowledge concerning them is but sought.
	Think more and speak less, would be an ex-
cellent maxim for many.  For without thought
and studious reflection, it is useless to speak at
all; as an idle mind is sure to give utterance to
idle words.


IS THERE MONEY IN IT?

	Those who ask this question; are usually
practical people, who always see everything in
a proper light, and never suffer their imagina-
tion to rule, but make it subordinate to reason,
and their pre-conceived ideas, and strong pow-
ers of judgment; these are the people who get
on in the world, who attain social eminence,
and make themselves popular.
	They bring all their powers to this culminat-
ing point; they strike boldly for a certain fig-
ure; and every faculty they possess is trained,
to serve the one great aim and object they are
in pursuit of, the acquirement of wealth; facts
with them are substantial things; foundations
upon which to build their positive schemes;
relatively they are dollars and cents; positive-
ness is one of their elementary essentials; and
they have no use for any adjuncts, except such
as form secure stepping stones towards reach-
ing the pinnacle of power; that power, influ-
ence and position which money will command.
	They check and smother every generous im-
pulse to which they may be prompted by inci-
dental circumstances; romance must not creep
unwarily into their hearts, they shut them-
selves so closely in their narrow channel of
thought and feeling, that they almost distrust
those who prefer anything else before money.
	Even Spring, in its glowing, blushing beau-
ty, has no charm for them, save the general
brightening up of business, and the consequent
increase, or influx in the money market; the
songs of birds, the merry hum of bees, the
magnificant display of Nature's works in this
poetic season of the year, are all lost upon
them, because really, they have no time for
such trifling considerations; in fact it is all very
real and commonplace. Buds and blossoms
simply foretell the coming fruit, and that
will be marketable with a relative value in dol-
lars and cents; the pleasure derived from these
trifling sources is all moonshine and nonsense,
very well for people who have nothing better
or more engrossing to occupy their attention;
but their investment is not in beauty, art, or
science, but in solid and reliable stock. If they
should linger by the way, to admire the beauti-
ful, or worship the divine, some one of their
competitors in this rapid and all-absorbing
chase might surpass them.
	They concentrate all their available forces on
the making of a certain point. If they ever
reach this earthly fruition of their ardent
hopes, then they intend to sit down and rest
and also to reflect. Would it not be better to
be wise and take in some good, full, exhilarat-
ing draughts of happiness as we go along, in-
stead of waiting worn and exhausted to reach


the end of the road, too much enfeebled at last
to relish with a true zest, the rich blessings of
life's earlier years? Passing by that which, in
our days of poverty, might have been a solace
and comfort, and yearning only for such things
as are left for wealth to command; how often
these prove only sticks and straws, and we
with powers and energies wasted, without serv-
ing any particular purpose, or accomplishing
any real permanent good, must sink into ob-
livion, and leave the hoards of accumulated
property for the next generation to dispose of,
enjoy, or squander.
								B. B.
	May 10th, 1871.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXPERIENCE BRINGS KNOWLEDGE

	I have long desired to bear my testimony to
my beloved sisters through the EXPONENT,
having had a long experience in the church and
kingdom of God. It is now forty-four years
and a half since I embraced the everlasting
Gospel; during that time I have witnessed
many striking examples of God's goodness and
care manifested towards His people.
	If I did not speak in defense of the truth of
the principles revealed to Joseph the Prophet,
I should feel under condemnation.
	I know and I can bear a solemn witness that
I have heard the voice of the Lord through Jo-
seph, giving promise to all that endure unto
the end, and also that he would own none but
the tried ones.
	How terrible for any to fall away, after re-
ceiving the truth! but the laws of God are pure
and holy, and cannot be trifled with. No one
must undertake to mix them with Spiritual-
ism, it will not answer to trifle with that and
expect to be justified in the sight of God, and
retain sufficient of His Spirit to abide in the
faith.
	Timothy said, "Take heed that you be not
deceived for many shall say 'I am Christ,' and
deceive many." I have seen many strong and
powerful in this Gospel who have fallen away
and even denied our blessed Savior; where then
can they turn for atonement and salvation?
	To my sisters, and especially to the young, I
would say, shun infidelity as you would a serpent
lest it charm and beguile and then destroy you.
	And one thing more before I close. The or-
der of Celestial Marriage, revealed through
the Prophet Joseph to this people, and taught
by himself to my husband and to me, I bear
you a solemn witness, is true. It was confirmed to
us by vision, and the glory and exaltation which
will be received through this ordinance sur-
passes all mortal powers of comprehension. I
have never seen any one who turned from it,
or against it prosper; if they had light, it has
been turned to darkness; I know the sealing
power and blessing is with this people, and the
keys of this ministry are now upon the earth.
My young sisters I have been intimately ac-
quainted with this doctrine ever since its pro-
mulgation, have lived in it, and expect to
throughout eternity. I was the very first moth-
er who gave her daughter in that sacred ordi-
nance in this generation; and I fully realized
what I was doing. A few others had acted up-
on their own responsibility. but she was given
by father and mother with our full and free
consent. Many of the promises then pro-
nounced by Joseph the prophet upon my head
have since been fulfilled.
	Humility and meekness, my sisters, will pre-
pare us all to ask in faith for the things we
need and to receive the testimony of Jesus, also
that portion of His Holy Spirit which is nec-
essary to guide us into all truth and assist us to
overcome all things. If I continue to revive

[Column 2]
through faith and the prayers of my sisters, I
will bear another testimony at a future time
through these columns.
	O how I rejoice in the work of my sisters; my
prayers and testimony are all I can give you; I
am weak and feeble in body, but strong and
steadfast in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant. God bless my sisters in establishing the
Home Industries! He has called you to help in
this work, it is going to succeed; everything
you do in it, every effort you make, pray God
to bless; no matter how trifling a thing it is,
and you will always feel the promptings of the
Holy Spirit to influence you in the right di-
rection.
	I can see the prophecies of Joseph upon the
head of Sister Eliza R. Snow are being fulfilled
daily. She stands at the head of a great mis-
sion (I allude now more particularly to the
Home Industries). May God give her great
wisdom to lead out in this immense labor, and
may we all follow in the true channel, is my
earnest prayer for each mother in Israel and
daughter in Zion; and I bless you all in the
name of Jesus.
		Your Sister,
			  ELIZABETH ANN. WHITNEY.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR W. H. Bremer, of Yale College,
recently visited Salt Lake.
	THE MAY term of the Third District Court
commenced Monday morning, May 3rd, Judge
Lowe presiding.
	THIS ISSUE ends the third volume of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Send in your subscrip-
tions, friends, for the fourth volume.
	THE UTAH Western Railway Company have
received a new locomotive, the "Edward Hun-
ter;" also new passenger and freight cars.
	PROF. JOHN M. Coyner, Ph. D., principal of
the Salt Lake City Collegiate Institute, expects
to issue a monthly periodical devoted to educa-
tion.  The first number will appear about the
middle of June.
	ON THE first of May most of the schools and
many private parties indulged in rambles over
the hills and through the vallies, around the
city. There was one excursion of children and
young people to American Fork Canyon.  The
Mason's Relief Fund Excursion, composed of
about three hundred persons, went to Lake
Point. Wetzel's band in attendance. They
had a sail on the Lake in the steamer. The
entertainment and accomodations at Clinton's
Hotel are highly spoken of.


PUTTING THINGS AWAY

		FOR MEN TO READ

	Do women ever think how much time they spend
in picking up and putting away? Of course we do
not mean to intimate that it is wasted. or that all
this labor is done unnecessarily.  Women have
a vast amount of such work to perform, and few
men realize its extent or its necessity until some ac-
cident or circumstance brings it home to them.
A married man said once, that he never realized
the amount of work done in bringing things out
and putting them away, until he happened to sit
idly, watching the operation of setting the table
—"getting tea," as it was called at a neighbor's 
house, washing the dishes and clearing them away.
It struck him, for the first time how much real
labor had to be done in lifting and carrying between
table and pantry and he determined to lessen such
labor in his house as much as possible, by con-
structing a kitchen in his house with every facility
and convenience. He thought, with a sort of cou-


sternation, if one "tea" requires that amount of
labor, what must the work of a house for a life-
time amount to? A very pretty problem, which
we should like to have answered.
	It is a fact, however, that "putting things away"
becomes a sort of mania, with some neat house-
wives; and not only gives them a vast amount of 
trouble, but sours their temper, and is a source of
annoyance to every member of the family.  From
a habit probably of being upon the same spot all
the time, eternally seeing and doing the same
things, it becomes a sort of mania, and in fact, a
symptom of disease.  We think a good plan, in
such a case, would be, for the husband to insist on
his wife taking a journey, making a visit home, or
spending a couple of weeks at a watering place.
The change of scene, the breaking up of the mon-
otony of her life would do her a world of good.
Her ideas would become enlarged; her thoughts
travel out of their accustomed routine, and when
she returned she would take up life less as a bur-
den, and more as a basket of flowers, from which
it is possible to extract beauty and fragrance.
								R. N. Y.


ASPARAGUS.

	We advise all our friends who own a garden or 
farin to plant a bed of this delicious vegetable.
There is no crop more sure, and no vegetable more
palatable at the same season of the year.  Once
planted it continues to yield freely for many years,
and if well cared for, will produce large and fine
stalks.  There is said to be several varieties.  We
think that the soil and the treatment make the
difference, rather than the variety.  Formerly the
one or two year old roots were set quite deeply,
say one foot deep in the trenches; but within a 
few years the practice has somewhat changed, as it
cannot be had so early by deep planting. We
should not advise planting it more than four or six
inches.  The young plants should not be covered
more than two inches deep when set, or they will
be likely to decay.  The earth can be drawn in
gradually during the summer.  The rows may be
three and a half or four feet apart, and the plants
in the row about a foot apart.—"Utah Pomolog-
ist."


WOMEN SKETCHED BY NOVELISTS.
	Mrs. Fawcette delivered a lecture recently, at
Cross-hill, near Glasgow, on some of the women
characters of Dickens, Thackeray, and George Eli-
ot. She observed that Dickens' heroines were as
a rule, imbecile and idiotic, fascinating and under-
sized. Dickens drew some splendid caricatures of
female failings and some wonderfully amusing
characters, but they were unlike any person who
ever lived. He lacked true insight into women's
hearts. The women of Thackeray and George
Elliot, on the other hand, breathed and lived be-
fore us; with that, however, the likeness between
the women of Thackeray and George Eliot ceased.


MRS. Fitzgerald of San Antonio, Texas,
has taken a contract to grade nineteen miles
of railroad.
	Lady Petre a celebrated patron of Catho-
lic charitable organizations in London, is
endeavoring to establish a night home in
that city, for girls and single women who
are engaged through the day, in industrial
occupations.
	Fanny Sewald an author of note who
has been aptly styled the George Sand of 
Germany, has become interested in the
Woman question, and has written some able
letters on the subject. She is a woman of
great talent and brilliant education.  Her
husband is also an author of fine repute in
Germany.  Professor Adolph Stahr.  Her
home is in Berlin, where she collects around
her the most noted literary people of the 
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
			INTEMPERANCE.

				A PRAYER.

Oh, God, save our land from this withering curse,
Than famine or pestilence worse, oh far worse!
Send these, or send earthquakes 'til earth reel again,
But oh, let mankind in true manhood remain!

We can give unto death, though with deep, bitter pain,
For we know we will meet them in heaven again.
But oh, save our loved from the fiend of the cup,
And from the red anguish its victims must sup!

We can bear to look down on the still, sleeping face,
When but pain at the parting, within us has place:
When remembrance is sweet and no shadow of shame
E'er cast its foul blight on our dear one's fair name.

But to look on God's image when reason's laid low,
And drown'd in the wine-cup's fierce, seething flow,
Is anguish unspeakable, love-blighting woe,
Which none but the stricken ones ever can know!

Save us from this curse and our soul's thanks shall rise
On the wings of the Morning high up to the skies,
And glad songs in Zion in sweet notes shall ring
With praise to our God, to our Father and King.
									HOPE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Cup Cake.—One coffee-cup butter, two no. sugar,
three do. flour, one do. sweet milk, three teaspoon-
fuls baking powder, six eggs leaving out the yelks.
Flavor to suit.
	Corn Meal Pudding.—One pint boiling milk
with one pint meal stirred in; one pint cold milk,
two eggs, one half-cup sugar; salt and spice; bake
two hours and a half.
	Chocolate Custard.—Four tablespoonfuls of
grated chocolate one half-pint water, let it boil ten
minutes, pour in three pints of custard made in
the usual way: it is a very nice dessert.
	To Prevent Tin Rusting.—Rub fresh lard over
every part of the dish, put it into a hot oven and
heat thoroughly.  Tin ware thus treated. may, it
is said be used and remain bright indefinitely.
	Corn Starch Cake.—The whites of two eggs
well beaten, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one of
corn-starch, one and a half cup sweet milk, one
half-cup thick cream, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder.
	Chicken Cheese.—An excellent [---]cling lunch:
boil the chickens tender, take out all the bones,
chop fine, season with salt, pepper and butter, add
enough of the liquor in which they were boiled to
make them moist—mold in any shape you choose
and when cold cut in slices.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Linen, cotton and woolen next the
skin.—Linen absorbs too much moisture,
which when evaporating cools it. Cotton
for summer, and woolen for winter is better.
Woolen will not absorb much moisture, and
consequently keeps the body an equal tem-
perature.  But the woolen should be soft,
fine and even as possible.  There are some
skins so sensitive as not to be able to toler-
ate woolen at all.  For such persons knit
cotton under-clothing is the best substitute.
	About beds.—Beds that last a long time
and cannot be cleaned and purified are ob-
jectionable. Feather beds for the aged have
their advantages, but when used should be
sunned often, and purified frequently. For
others a tolerably hard bed is the best, and
one which will allow the air to circulate
freely through it, and permit a thorough
cleansing.  Graham the vegetarian, used,
when keeping school to sleep on the benches
to harden himself.
	THE TEETH.—The tooth brush should be
moderately soft and have rounded edges
both of bristles and handle; brushing should

[Column 2]
never exceed from ten to twenty sec-
onds; the water should not be so cold as to
cause uneasiness to the teeth; the inner
surface of the teeth should be even more
carefully done than the outer; great caution
should be taken in regard to brushing the
gums from off the teeth.  Dr. Flagg says
tooth powders containing insoluble ingredi-
ents such as ground barks and especially
pulverized charcoal do not prevent decay of
the teeth, and are very injurious by their
insinnation under the margin of the gums
Soap as an adjunct in cleaning the teeth, has
proved very efficacious in preventing decay.
Of late years some of the most noted anti-
septics, such as creosote, carbolic acid etc;
have been used; conjoined to some of the
saponaceous compounds have wrought won-
ders in the retardation and arrestation of
caries. Together with these or any soaps,
it is advisable to use some frictional pow-
der, gentle or harsher according to require-
ments.  Precipitated chalk will sometimes
serve to prevent the yellowish discoloration
which is apt to accompany the use of soap
alone; but in some instances it is necessary
to use powdered cuttlefish bone or finely pul-
verized (levigated) pumice stone.  Some-
times when an acid condition of the mouth
is found to harm the teeth a grain or two
of carbonate of soda used in the water for
brushing the teeth, or lime water, made by
pulverizing a piece of lime the size of a
walnut and putting it into a pint bottle of
water, shake and allow it to settle, pour off
the first water, refill and it is fit for use.
	SHALL WOMEN STAND! OR SIT?—The 
Women's Physiological Society of Brooklyn,
and also a large number of the noble wo-
men in New York, are discussing the prac-
tice of compelling women to stand all day as
clerks and teachers, without the privilege
of sitting under the penalty, of at least a
reprimand.  There are physiological reasons
why women should not do it.  Added to
this, the unnatural way of supporting the
clothes from the waist, instead of making
the shoulders carry their weight, drags
down the whole muscular structure.  After
a time the muscles lose their power to con-
tract, all the organs drop a little out of
place. It is this that gives women the
tired, "all-gone" sensations so many are try-
ing to remedy.  Each clerk should have a
seat made to turn under the counter so she
could sit when not employed, and the girls
and coming generations would be great
gainers.  Let all humane people help agi-
tate this subject.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SPRINGVILLE March 3rd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The influence of woman in society, can-
not be measured. To her is committed the
great and important trust of guiding the
young and imparting pure and holy impul-
ses to the infantile and tender mind. Who
can estimate her power in this direction, as
the custodian, (If I may be allowed so to
express myself) of the first thoughts that
roll through the mind of the embryo, or un-
developed man? What consequences hang
on the direction which that mind receives
from her!
	The mother, who is true to this precious
trust, will mildly, but firmly correct all that
she sees wrong, before it has been allowed
to become a fixed habit of the child. Es-
pecially, should she insist on the practice of
strict honesty, and should it bring home
strange toys, or other property, it should
be closely questioned as to how it came in-


to possession of them, and should the slight
est doubts be entertained of the child's
honesty too much labor and care cannot be
exercised to find the owner, restore the
property, if unjustly taken, and to make the
strongest impressions upon the mind of the
child of the evil of such a course, carefully
pointing out the law of God, against such
sins, the wrong which the child sustains
that has been unjustly deprived of its prop-
erty, and the future consequences of such
conduct.  In this way where early tenden-
cies to dishonesty exist they may be affec-
tionately checked, and a just regard to the
rights of others permanently established.
Reverence to God and superiors should be
early instilled.  How many children (shall
it be said in the church) yes truly, are al-
lowed to grow up without religious train-
ing; who are never taught to pray, to cast
an upward eye to Him, to whom they owe
life and all its blessings.  Such children of-
ten become men who have not the fear of
God before their eyes, to whom prayer is
irksome, rather than a pleasant duty, and
to whom the song of praise is an unwel-
come sound, who treat the worship of God
irreverently, and ridicule those who serve
him devoutly, who say sneeringly of such,
"Oh he is religious" making use of the ex-
pression as though they consider it adds to 
their manhood.  Thus, those who worship
God devoutly are called by them, fanatics,
and appear simple in their eyes.  No won-
der, then, that so many young people the
sons of parents who have been in the
church for a number of years, are becom-
ing infidel to the work of the Latter days,
as this condition is traceable in a great de-
gree to the neglect of early religious train-
ing.  Sisters, let us awake to our responsi-
bilities.  Let us prize, more than ever these
priceless gems of intelligence.  Let us de-
vote our lives to their improvement and cul-
ture, that in the never-ending future they
may be as stars in our unfading crown,
whose lustre shall add joy and gladness to
us for ever and ever.  Your sister in the
Gospel,
						OLIVIA EVANS.


DELICATE GIRLS

	Some very wise and learned people have
made the discovery that idleness, and the
"ennui" consequent upon it, is ruinous to
health. "The nerve forces are as self-de-
structive as an unrestrained locomotive en-
gine." Chronic cases of hysteria and many
other bodily ailments have been cured by
properly directed energies and efforts in
suitable employments. How much better
to be constantly and agreeably employed
than to be forever on the Doctor's hands.


The new College at Northampton is likely to
advance light upon the problem of higher educa-
tion for women.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, called a Woman Suf-
frage Meeting in New York, May 11th. at Union
League Hall. Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Car-
rie T. Burnham, Phobe W. Couzons, Matilda
Joslyn Page and Rev. C. B. Fotheringham were
the speakers on the occasion.
	South Boston Woman Suffrage Club held its
second meeting Tuesday May 4th. at Mrs. Lin-
coln's residence, corner Atlantic and Thomas
Streets. Informal addresses were made by Mrs.
Lucy Stone, and Henry B. Blackwell. Rev. E. N.
Rand, W. W. Doherty Esq. and Charles D Page
editor of the South Boston Gazette made very ap-
propriate and timely remarks.  It is anticipated
this Club will exert political, social and beneficial
influence upon the future of that community.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		STRONG MINDED WOMEN.
			ANOTHER VERSION.
	The following suggestions have been
drawn out by reading in the last issue of
Woman's Exponent, May 1st, an article
from a St. George correspondent, entitled
"Strong Minded Women."
	According to my idea of things, it is
creditable for any of the sisters to express
their views in a frank and quiet manner
through the EXPONENT. Though even this
is in contrariety to the old rule by which
woman has so long been taught that to
avoid over-stepping the bounds of propriety
she should keep in the back ground, where
she might possibly be seen but not heard.
But we are growing out of these stiff nar-
row ways; thanks to the precious light
which has beamed upon our understand-
ings.
	And now, most respectfully would I sug-
gest to those who hold such views, as are
expressed by the writer above mentioned,
in regard to the position of men and wo-
men, that it is always wise to consider both
sides of a question, before giving free range
to the imagination.
	I cannot help wondering why the term
"strong minded women," should be so ob-
jectionable, so abhorrent in its nature, as to
appall even the most timid and sensitive;
now that the truth—the great astounding
truth—that woman is positively possessed
of a mind as susceptible as that of man,
is dawning upon the world. To me it would
be a matter much more lamentable, to be
considered one of a weak mind or intellect,
than to be regarded as a "strong minded,"
energetic, persevering woman, who might
accomplish something worthy of note, even
if left to herself, independent of a man to
appear always "ahead of" her, to "lead"
that she might "follow," to "dictate" that
she might "obey!"
	Most men have affairs enough of their 
own to engross their attention, without
spending time to direct women in theirs.
If they can so much as listen to details con-
cerning the latter, and give counsel upon
the more important points, I think it is a
great thing.
	I believe I am fully prepared to substan-
tiate the assertion, that in well regulated
and wisely conducted families, there is very
little of the ruling power manifested, ex-
cept in each governing self.
	That there are women in existance who
undertake to "play the lord," to "rule their
husbands, their households, and as far as
possible every one around them," is a pain-
ful fact.  But why abuse the appellation
"strong minded," by applying it to such a
creature? She is simply a shrew. I have
known one such myself, and although she
might be correctly termed shrewd and cun-
ning, yet I do think she was one of the
most ignorant women I ever knew. She
"treated her husband as though he were in-
deed a child," and a very inferior child at
that. She was "masculine in her manner,"
and in physical strength too—much more
so than her husband. And he, I always be-
lieved, was afraid of her. Not that she was
"strong minded," but because of her pow-
erful arm, her untutored tongue and her
superior ability in using them. I do not
suppose any one ever thought of accusing
her of being "strong minded."
	But I know another style of woman, a
real lady; who considers it an honor to go
to the polls and vote, having informed her-
self in relation to the cause she is to 
strengthen by the power she holds, and us-
ing her right of balloting accordingly. Of
[Column 2]
course she belongs to the circle of "strong
minded" women in Utah. That is, she be-
lieves in women knowing something for
themselves, and acting at times from their
own responsibilities. As a wife, she is one
of the most faithful, affectionate and oblig-
ing that could possibly exist. Her wise
and noble husband (for she was too "strong
minded" to yield her womanhood to any
other type of man,) has but to request that
she comply with his wishes in matters of 
mutual interest, whether weighty or other-
wise, and both are satisfied. She has no
need to "obey," for she has sufficient
strength of mind to control her own will,
submitting it to his where their opinions
differ. But they generally see and under-
stand things alike; for husband and wife
both live near the Lord, on whom they rely
for wisdom, and it is given according to
their needs. They counsel together and fre-
quently the husband acknowledges the cor-
rect opinions of his wife, or compliments
her for bringing to light a bright idea.
	"Husbands living their religion and mag-
nifying the Priesthood," I cannot think
would desire to "dictate," or feel that their 
wives must "obey."
	True there are men who consider it their
right to command, and even to enforce obe-
dience from their wives, where their wishes
are not willingly complied with. But such,
I do not believe are good Latter-day Saints
or that their ways are approved of by God.
I hope that "strong minded" women, ac-
cording to my version, never under any
circumstances, get befooled into marrying
men of this sort. But I should think it
only fair for all such to be coupled with the 
strong handed, loud tongued women, who
would certainly prove their equals.
	It is always weak minded people who will
infringe upon the rights of others. They
must be weak in some points at least, or
they would better comprehend the designs
of their creation and existence here. Let
those court the society of the weak and
feeble minded who will; but for my friends,
my associates, and particularly for family
connections, give me strong, true minds all
the time.						INEZ.


FLOWERS.
	NO cross, no crown.
	OUT of debt, out of danger.
	FAR from court, far from care.
	TAKE away fuel, take away flame.
	COVETOUSNESS brings nothing home.
	THE master's eye makes the horse fat.
	HE that goes borrowing, goes sorrowing.
	ALL are not hunters that blow the horn.
	AN obedient wife, commands her husband.
	LET your face and hands, like the town
clock, tell how your inner works are going.
	LEISURE is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	THE habit of being always employed is a
great safeguard through life, as well as es-
sential to the culture of every virtue.
	TO find friends when we have no need of
them, and to want them when we have, are
both alike easy and common.
	ONE in a million do a heroic action; but
the little things that make up our life come
every day and every hour.
	IF ever God had failed one who trusted
him, you might doubt; but he never has,
therefore you should be confident.


If you love others, they will love you.
If you speak kindly to them they will
speak kindly to you. Love is repaid with
love, and hatred with hatred.
	Say the strongest things you can with
candor and kindness to a man's face; and
make the best excuse you can for him, with
truth and justice, behind his back.
	By six qualities shall a fool be known:
Anger without cause; speech without mo-
tive; inquiry without an object; putting
trust in a stranger; and wanting capability
to discriminate between a friend and a foe.
	To complain that life has no joys while
there is a single creature whom we can re-
lieve by our bounty, assist by our counsels,
or enliven by our presence, is to lament the
loss of that which we possess, and is just as
rational as to die of thirst with the full cup
in our hands.
	Help somebody worse off than yourself,
and you will feel that you are better off 
than you fancied. You may subdue an an-
gry man by bearing with him, but not by
answering him; that is as if the steel should
try to make the flint leave off giving sparks
by striking it again.
	He is a wiser man who sees his own im-
perfections than he who discovers a planet,
or is able to plan a campaign or build a 
fort. He is more a conqueror who quells
the baser passions within, and brings the an-
imal nature into subjection to the moral,
than he who subdues the world. He is a
stronger man who moulds society mentally
and morally, who is able to direct the for-
ces of the mind and soul, than he who suc-
cessfully fights with bulls and bears, or over-
comes a giant in mortal combat. He is
more a brave man, a hero, who dares to do
right, to brave popular indignation, than he
who stands unappalled at the cannon's
mouth; the one is as far above the other as
the mind and soul are superior to the body.


﻿ON a recent trial in Wales, to test the val-
idity of a will, it was proved that in 1868
the testator became impaired in intellect to
such an extent that he went to the post office
with a postage stamp on his forehead and
requested to be sent to a place he men-
tioned.
	THE designs for the twenty cent silver
piece were selected and approved lately by
Hon. H. R. Linderman, director of the
mint. The adverse design contains a sit-
ting figure of Liberty, with the word "Lib-
erty" inscribed on a shield, the whole sur-
rounded by thirteen stars.  Beneath the
figure is the date 1875.  On the reverse
side is the figure of an eagle, with the
words "twenty cents." The edge of the
coin will be perfectly smooth, in order to
distinguish it from the twenty-five cent
coin.
	THIS promises to be a pretty fair year for
centenarians, as during one month we have
read the obituaries of fourteen.  These
were: Richard Cotrell, of South Carolina,
119; Aunt Chloe, slave of the late General
S. F. Patterson, of Palmyra, N. C. 116; Ca-
hic-ca-te-da, the Quapaw chief, 115; Peggy
Hanger, of Staunton Va., and a negress in
the Mobile Poorhouse. 110; Dennis Tooney,
of Oxford, Mass., 108; John Hyndman, of
Fingal, Canada, and Michael O'Leary, of
Indianapolis, 105; Mrs. Pepin, of Vermont,
104; Mrs. Rosenburg, of South Carolina,
103; and John Poparrhegopolous, of Greece,
Alice Cooley, of Brookfield, Mass., Wm.
Warren, of Topeka, and Mrs. Winthord
Merrill, of Illinois, I00.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DIVERSIONS.
	GIRLS' rights—kisses.
	GIRLS' lefts—old bachelors.
	PLAYED out—a retired actor.
	A RARE flower—the pink of politeness.
	A CLEAR case—an empty dry goods box.
	ALTHOUGH a lady's age is undeniably her
own, she does not own it.
	"TOM, what in the world put matrimony
in your head?" "Well, the fact is I was
getting short of shirts."
	AN editor who received a letter in which
weather was spelt "wethur," says it was the 
worst spell of weather he had ever seen.
	AN Augusta school-ma'am woke up a
bookseller at four o'clock, the other morn-
ing, to get a key to an arithmetic."
	A BOOKLYN sewing-society fines any
member who talks scandal, $1 for each of-
fense; only the wealthy are able to attend.
	A LITTLE girl, upon her return from a 
children's party, being asked if she had a 
good time, replied, "Yes, but there wasn't
much boys there."
	A GENTLEMAN, on presenting a lace col-
lar to his adored one, said, carefully: "Do
not let any one else rumple it." "No,
dear," she replied, "I'll take it off."
ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad spell-
ing, but John Randolph defended him by
declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell  more ways than one."
	SHERIDAN, at a public dinner, was unex-
pectedly called upon to say grace, when he
acquitted himself as follows: "What? No
clergyman present? Thank God for all things."
"THAT clock, stranger," said a Michigan
farmer, "was the best kind of a clock up to
six months ago, when my daughter began
to have beaus, and now the blamed thing is
always two hours slow."
	"J. Gray—Pack with my box five dozen
quills." There is nothing remarkable about
this sentence, only that it is nearly as short
as one can be constructed and yet contains
the whole alphabet.
	THE celebrated Chesterfield is said to have
died with a witticism on his lips. When
told that he was dying by inches, he thanked
heaven that he was not so tall by a foot and
a half, as Sir Thomas Robinson.
	DEVOUT mother (to young lady who is
burning up love-letters on Sunday)—"What
are you doing there, my dear?  Are you
burning incense?"  Young lady—"O, no,
ma; I am only burning nonsense."
	A MODERN philosopher thinks it is a mis-
take to suppose women have stronger at-
tachments than men.  A man is often at-
tached to an old hat; but he asks, "Who
ever heard of a woman being attached to
an old bonnet."
	A GIRL screamed in a lecture audience in
Lafayette, Oregon.  Then all the other girls
screamed.  General consternation ensued,
and a rush for the doors.  People were
bruised, clothes torn, and the room at length
emptied.  The first screamer had seen a
rat.
	A GENTLEMAN entered a bachelor's rooms
and looking around, said: "Very snug—
rather too snug; but I suppose they are
large enough for a bachelor." "Yes," said
the bachelor; "but I suppose if I had had a 
better half, I might have had better quar-
ters."

[Column 2]
	A RED HAIRED lady, who was ambitious
of literary distinction, found but a poor sale
for her book.  A gentleman, in speaking of
her disappointment, said: "Her hair is red
(read) if her book is not." An auditor, in
attempting to relate the joke elsewhere,
said: "She has red hair if her book hasn't"
	A DOCTOR lately informed his friends, in
a large company, that he had been eight
days in the country.  "Yes," says one of
the party; "it has been announced in the
newspaper." "Ah!" said the doctor, stretch-
ing his neck importantly; "pray in what
terms?" "Well, as well as I can remember,
in the following: "There were last week
seventy-seven deaths less than the week be-
fore.'


[Column 1]
		PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Switzerland has abolished capital punishment.
	"AT what time of day was Adam born?
A little before Eve."
	How to make money go far—Give it to
the foreign mission.
	MRS. Proctor will publish the autobiogra-
phy of her husband (Barry Cornwall) this 
year.
	THE reign of the chignon is over; its glory
has departed; its name is Ichabod—Harper's
Bazar.
	A DOLLAR store is a place where you can
get a twenty-five cent article you do not 
want.
	A FEMALE lawyer in Wyoming Territory
goes into court with her six children follow-
ing her.
	A man of large experience said his ac-
quaintances would fill a cathedral but a pul-
pit would hold his friends.
	"COME here and I'll lick the whole of
you," said an urchin to some sticks of pep-
permint in a confectioner's window.
	THE Booklyn Argus says the ancient time
instituted the Elizabeth ruff, while the
present age is rough on Elizabeth.
In the bright lexicon of feminine fashion
there is such a word as "faille." Spring
hasn't had too much balm as yet.
	A FRENCHMAN got exceedingly angry
with a waiter at an English hotel. "You
rascal!" exclaimed he, "I blow your nose
for you."
	WHAT is the difference between Noah's
ark and a Mississippi flat-boat:  One is
made of Gopher wood and the other made
to go for wood.
	A PHONOGRAPHER, taking down one of
Dr. Mary Walker's lectures, made the well-
known legend, "Honi soit qui mal y pense,"
read "Only see how Molly pants."
	IT is a good time for a political house-
cleaning this year. The State House needs
over-hauling. But, for efficient house-clean-
ing, the help of women is needed.
	THERE is not a proclamation of Napoleon
to his soldiers in which glory is not men-
tioned and duty forgotten; there is not an
order of Wellington to his troops in which
duty is not inculcated, nor one in which
glory is alluded to.
	Four ladies who passed the London University
examination and entered themselves in the "cham-
bers" for the study of law, are likely to obtain
profitable employment.  One of them whose
studies are completed has been engaged by a firm
of soliciters as a consulting counsel.

[Column 2]
	ZARE Thalburg daughter of the great pian-
ist will make her debut iu London this sea-
son in the opera.
	MRS. Mary Sellers and Mrs. Barbara Babb
of Milltown, Maine are probably the oldest
twins in New England being 85 years old.
	MRS. Ottendorfer of New York has given
$100,000 to establish a home  for aged and
infirm persons of the Evangelical Lutherian
denomination.
	MISS Emily Faithful has been lecturing
to large audiences at Barton-on Humber,
York and elsewhere in the north of Eng-
land.
	A Woman Suffrage meeting was held in the 
American Hall, Boston, May 8th, under the aus-
pices of the Dorchester Woman Suffrage Club.
Addresses were made by Mrs. Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell, on the "justice expediency
and necessity of Woman Suffrage."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home mades Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H.E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
	SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
		WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 AND 79 First South Street, between East
				and Temple Streets.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publicaiton, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume;
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		$26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-		$34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	$48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their indications
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residency of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.

