Vol. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1875			NO. 18


[Column 1]
	       NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE LAW requires, that railroad compa-
nies shall pay to the government, five per
cent of their net earnings. It appears that
the Union Pacific railroad companies have
not acted in conformity with the law in this
respect, in consequence of which suits have
been commenced against them.
	PEOREA, ILLINOIS, has the honor of having
lately elected the first woman Bank Direct-
or in this country. She is Lydia Bradley,
a widow and very wealthy. Her new posi-
tion will probably prove her to be also the
possessor of more honesty than many of her
gentlemen predecessors who have held like
offices of trust.
	OF THE convicts who have entered the
New Hampshire State Prison during a num-
ber of years, the gentleman employed as
Chaplin, states that only about one in six
could read or write. Not one from any
learned profession has ever been an inmate
of the prison. This is but one instance in
favor of education; but the world has grown
wise, and ignorance is now almost univer-
sally considered the chief cause of crime.
	THE POOR in New York and "what is to
become of them," has grown into a prob-
lem of astounding magnitude. There are
said to be one hundred and seventy-nine
thousand people living in two thousand sev-
en hundred tenements, out of employment,
and existing entirely by the aid they re-
ceive from public and private charity. And
the horrors of this wretched pauperism in-
crease daily. Can the increase of crime in
New York be wondered at?
	THE LOUISIANA affair, of which so much
has been said, and much more might be
said—arising from the recent occurrence of
the State's Governor marching a body of
U. S. Militia into the Legislative hall, in
New Orleans, to settle embarrassing ques-
tions by force of arms instead of by force of
argument—will stand as a precedente in the
annals of American history. Whether the
lesson it teaches will prove to be one of
benefit to the nation or otherwise, time
muse decide.
	WHAT THE Mormon women really think
about polygamy, many curious people are
anxiously striving to ascertain. The follow-
ing extract from a letter written at Grand
Rapids, Jan. 29th, from a prominent lady
of this city, now visiting friends in the east,
shows what her opinions upon the vexed
question are, after having looked into social
circles abroad. It also evinces that other
reflecting women, as well as those connected
with the church, are partially awakening to
a sense of the necessity for some change to
take place, that a decisive reform may be
wrought in society. The lady writes: "I
have had many talks with women about our
system of marriage, and have found that I
am listened to with profound attention. I
am surprised at the little amount of preju-
dice that exists among intelligent women.
They realize to some extent that something
must be done to reconstruct society. Crime
is on the increase. There have been several
cases of scandal here, two since I came,
among the first people. Purity of life is
scarcely to be found. The eye closing pro-

[Column 2]
cess is resorted to in most families. I keep
both eyes open and my lips closed. My
heart aches to see the condition of women
and children. Monogomy is a curse to any
nation. I long for freedom for my country
women.”


[Column 1]
TRYING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.

	A lady visiting Salt Lake City, chanced
to fall in company with a Mormon lady,
when the following conversation ensued.
	Stranger. How long have you resided in
the City?
	Mormon. Nineteen years.
	S. Are you Mormon?
	M. I am.
	S. I suppose you are acquainted with
President Young and family?
	M. I am.
	S. How many wives has he got?
	M. I do not know, but those I am acquain-
ted with are noble women.
	S. What do you think of Brigham Young?
	M. I think his history proves him to be
one of the greatest benefactors of the pre-
sent age.
	S. In what do you consider him a pub-
lic benefactor?
	M. He has not only gathered the poor
from the nations of the earth by preaching
the gospel, but reclaimed the desert, which
has become a fruitful field and peaceful
home for the oppressed of all nations.
	S. Have you received evidences of the
truth of Mormonism?
	M. I have.
	S. What are they?
	M. When I investigated the doctrines
taught by the missionaries I found them to
be the same as those contained in the Bible,
and prayed earnestly to God to make known
to me if He had revealed Himself by mani-
festations of His power as he did anciently; I
received a testimony that I cannot doubt,
and this is the reason that I am here.
	S. Do you believe in polygamy?
	M. I do.
	S. What evidences have you that polyga-
my is acknowledged of God?
	M. I have history of the ancient Patri-
archs and the testimony that God has given
me, that it is accepted of Him.
	S. Has your husband another wife?
	M. He has.
	S. And did you give your consent?
	M. I did.
	S. Are you the first wife?
	M. I am. 
	S. How long did you live with your husband
before he took another?
	M. Fifteen years.
	S. How long have you lived in polygamy?
	M. Ten years.
	S. How did you feel when your husband
took another wife?
	M. I suppose I felt something like Abra-
ham did when he went to offer up Isaac. 
	S. Are you satisfied with your position?
	M. I am thankful that I have had the
privilege of living in polygamy.
	S. Are you happy now?
	M. As happy as I can be.
	S. I cannot comprehend you.
	M. I do not suppose you can. I will ex-
plain a little. Nowhere in the revelations

[Column 2]
of God to man do we find salvation and
exaltation promised to any individual who
has received a knowledge of God, only
through proving his or her integrity by sac-
rifice. 
	S. Do all the Mormon ladies take that
view of the subject?
	M. They accept polygamy as a revelation
from God, believing it to be a command-
ment. 
	S. Do you think it has a tendency to re-
generate posterty?
	M. I do think if the physiological and
paternal laws that should govern maternity
were understood and carried out, posterity
would be greatly improved. 
	S. Do you think Mormon women will
continue to sustain plurality under the
present circumstances?
	M. I believe every true woman will de-
fend it under all circumstances, when she's
convinced that it is true.
	S. If we admit that it is true, it comes so
in contact with my feelings, I never could
bear it.
	M. A noble woman will not consult her
feelings when she is fully persuaded that a
whole people is to be benefitted. There was
Josephine, the wife of Napoleon; and also
Sarah, Abraham's wife who were called to
make such sacrifices, and whose names are
held in honorable remembrance.
	S. I admit your reasoning is philosophi-
cal, and yet I cannot see how they can be
happy.
	M. Be happy in doing right and trying to
elevate and save woman from the prostitu-
tion and disgrace which curses the whole
nation with degeneracy and darkness.
	S. So you think polygamy is calculate to
elevate woman do you?
	M. I think that was the design of our
Creator in revealing it.
	S. I would rather have one Isaac than to
have a dozen lackeys. I do not see how a
man can take care of so many children.
	M. God takes care of those who keep His
commandments. If you were going to form
a colony, or fight a battle, who would you
call upon; the man who could command
twenty sons or the man with five?
	S. If you have a Napoleon perhaps he
can command five thousand.
	M. The revelations of God teach us that
it is a blessing for man to perpetuate his
name upon the earth, and a curse if he
loses his identity.
	S. I have been very much interested in
the conversation, and regret that I have to
go on the train at four o'clock.
	M. We, as a people, take pleasure in dis-
abusing the minds of strangers when they
visit us, as we are aware that we are greatly
misrepresented abroad.
	S. That's very true, for I could not have
believed what I have seen and heard had I
not stopped in the city.
	M. I hope you will not forget to correct
any misrepresentations you may hear con-
cerning us—
	S. I certainly will not. I am surprised
and interested in finding this people so dif-
ferent from what I expected, and I thank
you for the information you have given me
and regret so soon to say goodby.
							  W. E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
			ADDENDUM.

	MOST RESPECTFULLY TO QUE
		(EXPONENT, Jan. 15th, 1875.)

Dear Queery: 'Tis wrong,—that I freely admit,—
	To judge from a standard too low;
And that I did, was not that the bright opposite
	I am not so blest as to know.
God bless him! who knows and is free to affirm
	Women's lot has been low for her worth; 
Who holds her his equal while in her soul burn
	Thoughts and aims of as heavenly birth.
Who holds that no sex 'mong the passions is known,
	Love and virtue as holy in all,
That daughter and son God will equally own
	When made pure and redeemed from the fall
Yet, this Ideal, noble, unselfish and grand,
	Still winning, and tender, and sweet,
The lovely, the Christlike example of man,
	Deny not, 'Tis rarely we meet.
When beloved by such, whom we proudly revere,
	We are not quite at ease even then—
From fair heights of joy we look down in pale fear
	Lest our sisters fall victims to men
Who know not, who care not if Love be divine
	And woman beloved of God,
Who scorn her as being "a frail, clinging vine"
	And who'd trample her down to the sod.
Who think that God made her a slave to man's will;
	If not, HE will will make her so yet,
Who will win her affections with cunningest skill
	And lead her to lifelong regret,
I wish her to learn to be  wary and wise
That by such she may never be won,
That poor, sightless Love may be furnished with eyes
	And never cool judgment outrun.
That without losing faith in Humanitys worth,
	She may set a just value on each,
And judge righty between the things hoped for on earth
	And those that are now within reach.
When her own Priesthood quickens her spiritual sight
	'Til she know whence her love would return,
'Twill then be quite safe to give Love a free flight,
	And—as safe just to wait till he come.
									LU DALTON.
Beaver, Jan. 23, 1875.


R. S. REPORTS.
			TOOELE CITY, Feb. 2nd, 1875
Dear Editor :—
	I have been a subscriber to the EXPONENT
since its commencement, and feel now that
I could not do without it. To me, one beau-
tiful feature is, that through its columns we
see the advancement of our sisters in the
Relief and Retrenchmeet Societies through
the territory. And as we are all striving
for the same high object,expecting to obtain
and share it all together finally, we feel
great interest in each others welfare. The
Societies in Tooele are doing well, and I
think, are accomplishing great good. The
President and Counselors in the Relief Society
are alive to their duties and the Teachers look
well after the wants of the poor. And we
all feel blest not alone in performing our
temporal duties, but also in meeting often
together to speak to each other of the good-
ness of God. The young ladies’ association
is also prospering. They take great delight
in attending their meetings and trying to
live worthy of being called Daughters of
Zion. The Exponent has not told us of
late, about the Fourteenth Ward General
Retrenchment meetings. I cannot believe
they (the sisters) have given up those re
freshing meetings. Pray let them know
that their sisters love to partake with them
of the good things they feast upon through
the EXPONENT.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
				JENETT DE LA MARE.


MISS Jennie Collins invited the unem-
ployed girls to dine with her at the Bower,
No. 815 Washington Street, Boston, recently,
and presided over the entertainment.


LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE

					Jan. 23rd, 1875
DEAR EDITOR:
	We are enjoying ourselves here in this de-
lightful climate. My husband's health has
not been better for years. President Young's
health is pretty good; he rides out almost
every day to the temple to advise and coun-
sel the workmen. There are so many things
to look after it keeps him, my husband, and
many others, on the look out continually,  to
keep so many men at work advantageously.
There are about three hundred in all. We
are very comfortably situated here, at the
St. George House, where we have taken
rooms and board. The sisters of the Relief
Society have donated to the Temple, one
hundred dollars since we have been here.
On the last Fast day, there was over fifty
dollars in money, in fifty-cent offerings, do-
nated by the brethren and sisters. We have
had another gentle rain of three or four
days, which hindered the workmen on the
Temple, but gladdened the hearts of the
farmers. The Temple walls are expected to
be ready for the roof, by the first of April;
there are twenty feet of masonry yet to be
laid. They have here, Sunday Schools in
the forenoon, and Sacramental meetings in
the afternoon. The brethren are giving
historical lectures once a week, the young
men's Historical Club meets once a week
and they are having theatres twice a week.
The weather is pleasant again. May pros-
perity attend your valuable paper. We ex-
pect to start for home about the tenth of
February next. 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


FAITH.

	What is faith? We are told it is an as
surance of things not seen but hoped for,
and of which we we have no certain knowl-
edge.
	It seems to me, that I cannot better il-
lustrate faith, than by narrating the follow-
ing story, or incident, which came under
my observation.
	A lady whose husband had failed in busi-
ness, and left her home to go and seek an
opening in another place, found herself left
alone with four or five children to support
with her own hands. After some weeks of
hard struggling and very short fare, she
arose one morning and found there was
neither bite nor sup in the nouse to give her
hungry little ones. The delicate nine year
old  girl busied herself in tidying up the
room, while the mother whose heart was
sad and heavy, was dressing the other child-
ren. But she said to her daughter. "You
had better fill the tea kettle, and set the ta-
ble for breakfast." The child looked the
surprise she felt as she answered, "Why,
mother, there is no bread nor anything else
for breakfast!" Never mind my child, set
the table, God will provide for us." When
it was done, the mother called her children
around her, and knelt for the usual morning
prayers, and poured out her soul in supplica-
tion to the giver of all good; our Father in
Heaven. She arose with a calmer light in
her eyes. Then went to her drawer an-
took out a small roll of white, soft, cotton
and linen rags, and sent her little girl
with them to the store to sell, with instruc-
tions what to do with the money which she
should get for the rags.
	The child slipped away on the errand,
and received much more than expected.
She ran to the grocer's and bought tea, su-
gar, and butter. She then took the remain-
ing part to the baker and holding it out in


her little hand said; “Please Sir, will you
send mother all the bread you can for this?”
The baker who was a kind man, and knew
the child said, "Has your father not come
home?” “No sir.” “Then your mother is
in a strait, ha? Well hold up your apron."
And he loaded the child with bread and
cakes till she could hardly stagger under it.
	“When the child got into the house the
faithful mother wept tears of joy, and her
heart was filled with thankfulness to that
God whose Son hath said; “God feeds the
ravens, and will He not feed you, O ye of
little faith.
					EMMA NYE BINGHAM.
	Ogden.


For the EXPONENT.
		RESPECT THE CHILDREN'S 
		       FEELINGS.
	“Auntie, do big folks never do anything
that they need to be scolded for?” asked a
mischievous little girl.
	"Certainly they do, just as much as little
folks," was the reply.
	"Well why don’t they get scolded then?
no one ever speaks cross to you," observed
the child.
	"Not because I do not deserve it perhaps,
but that people regard my feelings," said
her Aunt.
	"Eh! I wish I could have my feelings re-
garded," answered the little victim of cen-
sure.
	And who blames her for thinking so?
Her Aunt did not, but while telling the
child she must learn to do as nearly as possi-
ble as she was told, by those who had a
right to direct her, some new ideas crossed
her mind.
	Why are children spoken so sharply to,
often for the most trivial offenses? Are
not their feelings as acute as those of olderpeople, and should they not be as carefully
regarded?							L.


PRACTICAL EDUCATION.

	How is it that we can see men who have
molded themselves on the anvil who won’t
let their boys be moulded on the anvil too?
As the leather dealer pounds the leather
together to make a sole, so the boy needs
pounding to make him a man. If you don’t
you bring up a tender child, a child that
won’t wear well. And the same with a
child that is brought up without knowing
how to work. There are misfortunes enough
that fall upon the fair sex; there are adver-
sities and sudden revolutions in affairs that
more often fall, like pitiless storms, upon
their heads than upon those of men, but of
all adversities a foolish mother for a fair
daughter is the most adverse; one who will
not teach the child how to earn her living,
who will not teach her fruitful industry.
Music may be heard instead of spinning;
but, in some way or another, work should be
part of the education of every boy, and the
boy who is brought up without knowing
how to work is not brought up at all; he is
abused. The old Jews used to say that a
man not brought up to a trade is brought up
to be a thief, and I am of the same opinion
to a great extent. So, then, parents, if you
would bring up the best crops here that
your ground will allow, bring up stalwart
boys that are able to work and are not at all
ashamed of it, and bring up good stalwart
girls that are able to work in the kitchen
and about the house, and are not ashamed
of it either.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A VISION.
	Being a firm believer in the Bible, and
the announcement that Joseph Smith saw
and conversed with angels, as did most of
the ancient prophets and apostles since the
world began; and believing also, that it was
my peculiar privilege to enjoy like gifts,
(for this had been prophesied upon my head
by the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, who had ministered
unto me in sickness,) and that the glory of
God should be revealed unto me, I began to
hunger and thirst exceedingly after the
great and glorious privilege of beholding a
heavenly vision of angels, sent from the
presence of God, and to be filled with the
Holy Ghost, as were the ancients. There-
fore I began to devote every spare moment
to prayer, and to the reading of the holy
scriptures, feasting on the teachings of Je-
sus and the prophets, and the principles of
eternal life, almost to the exclusion of all
external surroundings. On the afternoon of
the 21st of February, 1867, while telling
my desires to an elder of this Church, the
spirit of prophecy immediately fell upon
him, and he began to prophesy that the ful-
filling of my great desires was at hand, and
that that night should not pass away till I
should be satiated by conversing with an-
gels. And as he spoke forth by the Spirit
of God, it fell upon me like a clap of light-
ning. This was at 5 p. m. About 7 p.
m. I retired to bed, and began engaging in
mighty prayer for the promised blessing,
for I had proved this man of God to be in-
deed a prophet. He had prophesied truly
upon me before, and the renovating power
of God was even now proving his words to
be true, pouring down upon me like a pillar
of fire, until it seemed as if every hair of
my head would be consumed by it. While
all my body was as if it burned in a furnace
and every pore sweat until I was dripping
wet, and I began to tremble and quake, my
body was expanded till I seemed to be light-
er than a feather and did not feel the
bed clothes, but rather seemed to be leaving
them for mid air, and floating toward heaven
in the pillar of fire which enveloped me.
With all the energy of my soul, I continued to
pray steadfastly without ceasing, that I
might have faith not only to feel this inef-
fable paradise, but to see the angels of God
face to face, and thereby drink of its ful-
ness, as far as is allowed to mortals. As a
starving man’s appetite is whetted by a
pitiful morsel, so was mine aggravated by
this heavenly sensation. After about five
hours of this most heavenly baptism of fire,
I dozed off and dreamed that the angels
were at my bedside ready to converse with
me, and that I must pray for still greater
courage to behold them in the glory that
surrounded them, while light and peace inef-
fable shone upon me as a precursor to their
mighty presence. I woke up, with a shock
like lightning to my whole system, far more
powerful than anything I had yet experi-
enced. The room was filled with consuming
flames, as a rushing, mighty wind, and a
pillar of fire far above the brightness of the
noonday sun, shining with clear, transpar-
ent brilliancy, lit upon me, knocking me
dumb and immovable, as it caught me up
into a sitting posture. As I gazed mute
and helpless toward heaven, in the midst of
the light, just beneath the ceiling, I saw
two immortal beings. Their countenances
transcended the meridian sun, as stopping
in their descent they smiled upon me. They
then continued their dove like, gentle and
circular descent, round and round, lower and
lower, keeping an exact distance from each
other—as we have seen swallows keep won

[Column 2]
derful and exact proximity in following
each other in their inimitable flights—till
they had descended within a foot or two
above me. They then rested their chins
upon their right hands and smiled again.
	Oh! fallen, void and empty language,
what word hast thou to describe the immor-
tal beauty of an angel’s smile?
	I now beheld the full and lightning like
appearance of their countenances. On their
heads were crowns of pure gold like trans-
parent glass, inlaid with immortal stones of
every conceivable color higher and of more
exceedingly fine workmanship in front than
at the sides. They were dressed in robes
of most exquisite whiteness and texture of
pure linen, falling gentle undulating folds,
to their ankles, which, with their feet were
perfectly bare, as were also their hands and
arms to the elbows, excepting at the wrists,
which were encircled with bracelets of pur-
est gold, studded with the most precious
stones. Not a speck or mote was upon their
countenances, which were perfectly trans-
parent—I could see through their faces
plainly as through a window. To notice all
this consumed but a short time, perhaps
half a minute. One of them began speak-
ing to me.
	But Oh! who can describe the voice?
Softer than the echoes of a whisper, sweeter
than undulating music and more refined than
paradisical zephyrs, his words fell upon my
adoring soul and dispelled every fear. ’Twas,
the voice of an Angel from Glory, never,
never to be forgotten!
	He spoke four words to me, which pierced
as living fire and I was as one dead before
him, and shrank, for from his eyes issued
flames of living fire, and his very feet burned
with flames as if in a furnace. I then looked
at the other angel and saw that it was a fe-
male. She spoke and told me her name.
	The first did not tell me his name, but
spoke of the glory that I should enjoy after
my afflictions in this world were over. Gaz-
ing at each of them alternately, I asked if
they were married. The woman answered
“No. There is no marrying or giving in
marriage in heaven, but it must be done on
the earth.” When she had said this, I was
dumb and could not endure their presence
longer. Then she touched the two first fin-
gers on my right hand, and gave them three
gentle pressures, each touch being like death,
and the third was death itself, or its equiv-
alent for in a moment—in the twinkling of
an eye—I was caught up into heaven, into
a state of perfect rest and peace, and my
senses swam in an estacy of indescribable
happiness, in sea of ineffable, seraphic
bliss. Whether in the body or out I know,
not. But the things unutterable that passed
in this paradise, were taken from me at the
return of consciousness to earthly things,
when they seemed like the shining frag-
ments of a gorgeous vision, fast fading
from my view. Perhaps I was in that state
half an hour.
	The next change I remember, I was again
gazing steadfastly at the two angels, from
whose countenances I took not my eyes for
a moment, and upon whom I could now
look without pain or fear. As I was thus
gazing and adoring them, desiring them to
tarry and converse, I saw that the light was
centering immediately around their persons;
then I knew intuitively they were going to
leave me. And as I now gazed steadfastly,
worshipping, my desires being very intense
that they should tarry a little longer—with
the velocity of lightening a cloud over-
shadowed them that I could not behold
them, though they moved not to the right
nor to the left. The room was dark, and for

[Column 3]
a moment only I was conscious. For so
great was the power of God upon me, that
I fell into unconsciousness immediately, as if
a catapult had struck me. The next I re-
membered was the most delightful music,
chanted by ten thousand times ten thousand
voices, in praise to God, the faintest echo of
which can not be forgotten to the end of
time, and when recalled, startles my whole
senses with delight and adoration.
	Receding and still receding, growing
fainter and fainter, ascending and still as-
cending until the faintest echoes died away,
in the dim distance of mid heaven, it was
lost to my ear. And now the second time,
consciousness of where I was dawned upon
me, and the room was dark. I lay as one
dead, without the power to stir a muscle or
move a limb for about three hours. At the
end of which time I began to be able to stir
my fingers and toes, and finally had power
to turn from my back on to my side. My
night clothes were as wet with perspiration 
as if I had been swimming. By day light
I was able to get up and dress myself, but
had to sit still all the forenoon, for I was still
consumed as in a pillar of fire. And I felt
so light in body for a week after, that I was
half unconscious whether or not my feet 
touched the earth in walking.
	The vision began about midnight and
must have ceased between one and two
o’clock, on the morning of the 22nd of Feb-
ruary, which is Washintong’s birthday.
	All glory and honor and blessing and pow-
er and might be unto the Father, and to His
holy child Jesus, and the Holy Ghost, who
are one God, for ever and evers worlds with-
out end. Amen.	    				A.P.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A DUNBARTON woman has counted the
pies she made during 1874, and says they
foot up 580.

	THE heart of Rev. John Bragdon, of the
Congregational society in Hillsboro’ Bridge,
has been made glad by a gift of a purse of
$65 from his parishioners.

	THE annual sale of seats at Plymoth
church (Beecher's) this last month, brought
$70,319. The amount realized last year was
$58,346. Chas. Dennis bid $550 premium,
H. B. Claffin $510, and H. C. Bowen $455.

	THE New England losses by fires during
the past year are reported as follows, by
States: Massachusettts, $5,771,844; Connec-
ticut, $2,332,700; Rhode Island, $1,084,476;
Maine, $640,225; New Hampshire, $539,480;
Vermont, $346,200. Total $10,715,936.

	AN old fashioned spelling match for a
couple of $12 dictionaries was indulged in
at a Normal School on Christmas. After
three hours, Miss Minott teacher in the
Grammer School, and Harry Cole, a student
in the Normal Department, alone were left
standing of a class of sixty, and the prizes
were awarded to them.


We read in classic history of an Athenian who,
hesitating whether to give his daughter in mar-
riage to a virtuous man with a small fortune, or to
a rich man who had no other recommendation,
went to consult Themistocles on the subject. "I
would bestow my daughter,” said Themistocles,
"upon a man without money; rather than upon
money without a man.”


No friend loves you more truly than the
one who will tell you kindly and plainly
of your faults.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. FEB. 15, 1875


SPLINTERS.

			    LOCAL.
      Our city beaux and belles are happy now,
over the excitement of St. Valentine's day
......Hon. S. B. Axtell arrived in this city,
to take up his abode as Governor of Utah,
on Tuesday, the 2nd inst......Sexton Taylor
reports forty-one interments for the month
of January......Presidents Young and Smith
are expected to be in this city from St.
George, on or about the 20th inst.......Miss
Katherine Rogers, a neat and attractive ac-
tress, lately filled a short engagement at
the Salt Lake Theatre......Several grand
balls are announced to take place on Wash-
ington’s birthday.	
			POLITICAL. 
    Prominent Englishmen are of the opinion
that a great war is soon to commence in Eu-
rope......Ex-President Andrew Johnson has
been elected to the United States Senate
from Tennessee........King Alfonzo, of Spain,
is reported to participate in the opperations
of his troops in their attacks upon the Carl-
ists......A colored Civil Rights league de-
mand the passage of a bill admitting negroes
to all schools, hotels, public conveyances &c.
......A bill has passed the Senate appropriat-
ing twenty-five thousand dollars to defray
the expenses of King Kalakaua's visit......
The Hawaiian reciprocity treaty, with the
United States, is to be ratified within eigh-
teen months, and will remain in force seven
years......There is talk of an extra session of
the present congress.
			PERSONAL.
    The Emperor of China is dead and the
Empress overcome with grief has commit-
ted suicide......Garibaldi was the recipient
of a banquet given by the English and
American residents of Rome, on the 4th
inst......The Marquis of Hartington has been
chosen leader of the British liberals......The
poet Longfellow has been seriously ill......
Samuel F. Hersey, Congressman from Maine
is dead......Miss Sanglli, the favorite dancer
of Vienna is said to be fat......Miss Dolores
Drummond is the New Australian tragedi-
enne......The new speaker of the Missouri
House of Representatives, Mr. Benton G.
Boone, is a grandson of Daniel Boone......
Prince Philip, Duke of Saxony has married
Princess Louise of Belgium......Prince Bis-
marck is suffering from a nervous affection,
and is said to have concluded to retire from
public life.
			GENERAL.
    Last year, one hundred and seventy-six
persons died who were connected with the
stage......The Seine has overflowed its banks
and flooded the low lands around Paris......
Four schooners were recently blown ashore
at San Francisco......In Pennsylvania the
coal mining is generally suspended......The
Canadian canals are to be deepened......Lon-
don has a new musical periodical entitled
"The First Fiddle"......At Ghent, Columbia
Co., it is reported that the small pox is so
prevalent the railway trains do not stop
there......Darfour, of Africa has been an-
nexed to Egypt......The successor to the
Chinese throne has already been decided
upon.


﻿Mis Carrie S. Burnham, who has been
studying law for three years in Philadelphia,
presented her application before the Board
of Lawyers of that city the other day, for
the usual examination and admission to the
bar. The board declined to receive her ap-
plication, as they could find no precedent for
it, but promised to lay the matter before
the court.


FLORAL HINTS.
				St. Geo. Jan. 31st, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Your flower-loving readers have doubtless
considered our advice about their house
plants, and find them probably thriving and
doing finely—If they are not, let them stir
the soil around the plants and fertilize with
liquid manure, and once a week, put about a
teaspoonful of aqua ammonia in the water
used for a good sized plant; also give each
pot a little fine charcoal, which will cause
the bloom to be of brighter color and more
lovely.—
	If you have seeds to plant, use a little
warm water, with a small amount of spirits
of camphor poured into it. In this soak the
seeds a few hours, which will so fertilize
them, that even old seeds, and almost life-
less, will grow.
	If any one should desire to have a beauti-
ful vine trailed in the window, let them
take the tuber of a maderia vine, plant in a
pot in the usual way and they will soon
have abundants of the finest glossy, wax-
like foliage, which will need sticks to wind
on and care to keep it from injury, as the
young runners are very tender and easily
broken.
	If you would have bulbous flowers in the
time, your Tulips and Hyacinths should
now be planted. 			FLORA.


﻿LOCAL STREET SCENES.

	Some Indian women were walking up the
street the other day, having in their company
a queer looking little dog. A small boy, with
a paper of something in his hand, met them.
As they passed along, the dog turned about
and started to follow the boy. “Here, go back!"
said the little fellow gently, as he turned and
saw the dog coming after him. “Go back!” he
repeated as the dog still continued in the wrong
direction. But the animal did not heed him,
and so he went back himself a few steps and
called loudly but pleasantly and respectfully
after the squaws, directing their attention to
the fact that they were likely to loose their
dog.
	Well there is a perfect little gentleman, we
thought; and the second thought was—he has,
most likely, a good and amiable mother.
      Whenever the dusky “red skins” appear in
a doorway or at the gate, a kindly word and act
should be in readiness for them.  If they are
to be taught by their more intelligent white
neighbors, to rise above their present ignorant
and degraded position, no better method can be
adopted than to extend gentleness and charity.
	A poorly dressed, but good-natured, appear-
ing boy was walking beside a cart drawn by a
very inferior looking beast, on South Temple
Street. A crowd of big boys had collected at a


crossing. As the boy with the horse and cart
came along, the big boys all commenced shout-
ing “Wo! Ho! Ho." to stop the horse, which
they succeeded in doing, much to the annoy-
ance of the young driver. He started the poor
old horse again, when the boys shouted with
more vigor than before, and the animal was
again brought to a “stand still.” When the
perplexed driver endeavored to persuade it to
proceed, the continued shouts of the still
kept it standing there; and thus the offense
was several times repeated.
	Oh! shame, we thought; what rude, uncivil
boys! If they have had good mothers, some
mistake has certainly occured in their educa-
tion.


PROVIDENCE AND DUTY.

     People of the world are sometimes impressed 
with what are called “special providences,” not
realizing that our Father orders all things;
even our trials and what we call our misfor-
tunes, which are many times our greatest bless-
ings. We are taught as Latter-day Saints, that
by our course of conduct in a prior existence,
we predestinated ourselves to the positions 
which we occupy here; and by our course of
conduct here, we will be entitled to certain po-
sitions hereafter. Then, as children of a wise
Father, who have been privileged to receive
light and intelligence from Him, in a greater,
degree than many others of His creatures, how
faithful and diligent should we be in the per-
formance of every duty that is revealed to us 
from heaven.  Laboring earnestly in this King- 
dom will enable us to increase in that intelli-
gence which comes from God until we will fi-
nally arrive at such a state of perfection that
we can do His will here on earth, as it is done
in heaven by the angels.				C.R.


ROWING AGAINST THE STREAM.

	"'Tis not in mortals, to command respect: 	
	But we'll do more, "MY SISTERS, "we'll deserve it."
	Every day those who are stepping forward in
the march of improvement, with a determina-
tion to succeed and accomplish something cred-
itable and exceedingly desirable for woman,
are made painfully aware, by the current of op-
position which pours in upon them from all
sides, that they are literally rowing against the
stream.  Generation after generation have
yielded the palm in favor of man's superior in-
telligence, until it has become a time-honored,
authenticated, and established positivism, "im-
mutable as the laws of the Medes and Persians;"
and although there have been here and there,
striking specimens of a higher order of wo-
man's intellect than the general standard, yet
these are looked upon as exceptional digres-
sions, and not as implying any particular talent
or ability in the sex itself.
	Because there are in this wide field of labor,
those who are not genuine in their feelings and
desires, or labor under mistaken views of what
they themselves are most anxious to accom-
plish, does it prove that all are inadequate or 
inefficient?  Does the matter so stand with the
opposite sex?  Take the question home, gentle-
men. I appeal to you who labor for the ad-
vancement of true knowledge; put yourselves
in our places, equalize the thing. Are there
not those among you, who are not genuine co-
workers for the good of humanity, notwith-
standing their professions to the contrary?
Do they not do more harm than good to your
cause, even though they are zealous and fired
with enthusiasm?  And yet you would judge
us as a class, by a rule which you would re-
fuse to have applied to yourselves.


If a woman dares to stand up in public and
express her ideas, (even before her own sex) or
if she happens to differ in point of opinion
 from her husband, father, or brother, she is at
once set down as a radical. Or as belonging to
a certain “stripe of female characters,” (a term
I have heard,) who ransack the country, and
in open defiance of all the laws of propriety,
good-breeding, and modesty make for them-
 selves a standard of morality; endeavoring to
gain influence by imposing upon the unsophis-
ticated and unwary. Their strongest hold lies
with the opposite sex, who in this respect seem
to be the weaker, instead of the stronger na-
ture. They are not elevating, but degrading
womanhood. Now, with such we have no fel-
lowship, or kindred association; our cause is
one totally dissimilar in all respects. We would
represent our sex, truthfully and in an unpreju-
dicial manner. That we are more or less in
 willing bondage, we do not attempt to deny;
but it is the force of habit, of long-continued
custom, of tradition, of common and general
education; and as Shakespeare says, “A cus-
tom more honored in the breach than in the
observance.”
    Why are women slaves to fashion and style!
Men say to shine as “bright particular stars”
in the firmament of society, to excel in point
of attraction, to outdo their neighbors. But
after all, is it not to gain the admiration and
favor of the opposite sex, to captivate their
eyes or win their hearts?—which are far more
susceptible to outside attractions, than to any
genuine worth. It is proverbial that men do
not choose intellectual women for wives. They
consider them very appropriate for old maids;
this helps them to bear their CRUEL lot with a
better degree of serenity; gives them occupa-
tion in place of family cares. But for domestic
home companions—Oh no!
	The assertion is widely circulated, among
the “fair sex,” that the more shrewd, design-
ing, artful, insinuating and intriguing a woman
is, the better chance she stands of filling that
exclusive place in a husband’s affections, which
every wife has a right to expect. Does this en-
courage innocence, purity, elevation of charac-
ter, loftiness of purpose, or does it engender
virtue?
	Does not this erroneous state of things call
aloud for reform? And ought not those to be
commended, who are willing to launch forth
upon the stream of public opinion, conscious of
the justness of their cause; and with unceasing
and unhesitating energy and perseverance, row
against the stream; fearless of the storms they
must encounter, or the fierce surging of the
angry waves of popularity? If it were possible
to awaken each one to her own individual need,
would there be any occasion to stand up and
advocate reform?

	"If every one would see to his own reformation,
	How very easily you might reform a nation.

	Here at home, among those who profess to
be Saints, is the very cruelest test of our sin-
cerity and integrity in the cause we have un-
dertaken. Sneers, reproaches, taunts from
those who ought to assist us in this very work.
They cannot, or will not see we are working
for an ultimate good, for a true and permanent
elevation of character, for an independence
through one's own exertions and real merit, for
the highest culture and refinement attainable,
and for that true distinction, which is worthy
the most entire devotion of purpose. They 
look upon us with suspicion, fancy we would
undermine their influence with the opposite
sex, as opposed to all cultivation of taste in
dress, which makes them the centre of attrac-
tion and the envied of their "set."
	But let woman seek intelligence from the

[Column 2]
ountain of all knowledge, let her be mentally
and spiritually qualified and competent to
choose a companion for herself, let her under-
stand her true position aud the duty she owes
to her Creator to fulfill the measure of her cre-
ation, and she will choose wisely. One equal
at least in all things, and if possible superior to
herself. Men who would have such compan-
ions must look beyond the outward adornments
of person; and the offspring of such a union
would be calculated to rise in the scale of hu-
man progression.
	If we believe what has been prophesied to
us, that our children should fill honored posi-
tions on the earth, should do a greater work
than their parents, we ought to seek by all the
means in our power, to prepare them for the
stations they are destined to fill; that they
may fill them with wisdom and true dignity.
	Through the industry and untiring efforts of
their parents—the hardy pioneers of this new
country—by the mercies of God, our young peo-
ple are enjoying means of acquiring knowledge
heretofore unknown among us as a people.
“Knowledge is power,” certainly, but if not
rightly applied may be a power for evil. To
understand how to direct in a proper channel
the knowledge acquired, to keep in perfect con-
formity with the laws of God, and train our-
selves so as to preserve a medium in all those
more potent influences; which predominate in
the world, at the present time, is the one point
most desirable, at this time, among our youth.
If they can not be aroused to the individual
need of relying upon God and trusting to the
guidance of His Holy Spirit, they are in danger
of following after their own devices and steep-
ing themselves in ease, luxury and self-indul-
gence.
	It is this work we are anxious to assist in. We
are opening, comparatively, a primary class,
but we shall move forward, and a broader field
ot action will open for definite work, in this
timely undertaking. There is abundant room
and occupation for all; and union will lighten
the labor effectually; therefore we call upon all
who are desirous to see our children better than
their contemporaries, to lend a helping hand in
this extensive enterprise of rowing against the
stream. And above all, let us first look into
our own hearts, and see wLether we are truly
and sincerely, working for our own emancipa-
tion from the thralldom of sin, evil passions
and tendencies; and remember,

					"Real glory
	Springs from the conquest of ourselves,
	And without that, the conqueror is nought
	But the first slave."
							B.B.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 9, 1875. 
						E.B. Well


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOW TO GET WHAT YOU WANT.

	If you would be wise, study hard and trea-
sure up true wisdom; rich—work hard and cul-
tivate order aud economy; respected—be sure
that all your words and ways are respectable,
and that you treat others with respect; honored
—prove yourself honorable; beloved— be lova-
ble; treated with kindness and charity—so
treat your follow creatures.
	And so struggle, if your nature requires strug-
gling with, for whatever you want, trusting in
alwise Providence to direct, and if faithful you
will never fall short of your expectations.


﻿NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed


instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	AN ITEM worthy of attention is that dried
peaches from Utah are worth from four to five
cents more in the States than those raised and
cured there.
	TRAINS ON the Utah Western rail road now
run daily between this city and Lake Point,
Clinton’s landing. And work on the Utah
Southern is progressing so finely, it is antici-
pated that early in the coming summer, the
cars will run as far South as Nephi.
	Mr. Haynes and son, of this city—lately from
Wales—have commenced the manufacture of
chain, such as is used in logging, &c. We are
always pleased to note any advancement in the
scale of progression; and one particularly in-
teresting feature in this branch of industry,
new to our Territory, is that the Messrs Haynes
can manufacture a better article at less cost than
can be obtained by importation.
	THE SALT Lake Fire Brigade have chosen
the anniversary of Washington’s birthday, for
a grand dress ball, to be given at the Salt Lake
Theatre. That the occasion will be a most
entertaining one, cannot be doubted, so well
known and generally appreciated are the noble
efforts of our Firemen, whose energies are so
liberally employed for the public good. We
acknowledge the favor of a complimentary in-
vitation.
	HIS EXCELLENCY, Governor Axtell, among
the first of his official proceedings as governor
of Utah, has shown good judgment and an
honorable purpose by straightway performing
some of the duties uselessly omitted or will-
fully neglected by his late predecessor, ex-Gov-
ernor Woods. Prominent among these official
acts was the issuing to Hon. George Q. Cannon
the certificate of election as delegate to Con-
gress from this Territory.


﻿HINTS ABOUT BEAUTY.

	There is nothing more unfavorable to fe-
male beauty than late hours. Women who,
either from necessity or choice, spend
most of the day in bed, and the night at
work or dissipation, have always a pale fad-
ed complexion and dark-rimmed, weary
eyes. Too much sleep is almost as hurtful
as too little, and is sure to bloat the person
with a palid, unwholesome far. Diet also,
has a marked influence upon personal
beauty.  Generous living is favorable to
good looks, as it tends to fill out and give
color and sleekness to the skin. A gross
and excessive indulgence, however, in eat-
ing and drinking, is fatal to the female
charms, especially where there is a great
tendency to “making flesh.” Regularity of
time in the daily repast and a scientific
cooking, are the best means of securing not
only good health, but good looks. The ap-
petite should never be wasted during the
intervals between meals on pastery, con-
fectionary or any other tickler of the appe-
tite, which gratifies the taste but does not
support the system. Exercise is, just enough
of it, and the right sort, of course, essential
to female beauty.  It animates the whole
physical life, quickens the circulation of the
blood, hightens the color, develops the
growth and perfects the form of each limb
and the entire body. It also gives elastic-
ity and grace to every movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		ASPIRATION.

From memory's tear blotted leaf
	Fade every dream, the bright the dear;
Fade memory of every grief,
	And every hope that cost a tear.
I look back on you, calm, to-night,
	My fallen idols, without pain;
My present is so glad and bright,
	Ye cannot shade my heart again.
O Night! with closed star-eyes weep on, 
	These gladsome lights shine warmly down,—
Truth whispered, here thy rest is won;
	What care I for your chill and frown?
My baby smiled up in my face,
	A fair child sings beside my knee,
The moon seems lit with heavenly grace, 
	These are thy gifts, O Life! to me.
Deep in the dream world of my youth,
	With purpose true, for many a year; 
From out the treasuries of truth,
	Feebly I strove alone to rear 
Some structure fair of usefulness,
	To prove my spirits work within,
My songs sank into silentness,
	My pictures faded 'neath my pen.
As blossoms from the cool woodsbrought,
	Droop in the heart-flushed palms that hold;
My poor expression marred the thought
	In mystic music to me told.
O Power! that woke and stirred my mind, 
	To work beyond my feeble skill,
I know, that yet these hands will wind
	These tangled skeins into their will.
Yet shall I speak in utterance clear,	
	The new things whispered to my heart;
Forgetful, in that time of fear,
	When I in Thy	 work bear my part?
O, hearts lone, and misunderstood!
	Enough for us, He knows us best;
Falter not in the purpose good,	 
	And when at last from earth we rest;
These lights that dimly burned, will shine
	With their true splendor.  And the eyes 
Familiar, that had not divined
	Thy proper self, will recognize.
And each one, in his place, and name.
	Shrinking no more in earth-wrought thrall;
Stand understood and unashamed,
	In soul-white beauty before all. 
			AUGUSTA JOICE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, Nov.  28th, 1874.


[Column 1]
﻿		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	How to Fry Chicken.—The best fried chickens
are thus prepared:  The chickens are killed, scalded,
picked and washed out cleanly in water, then quar-
tered and thrown into boiling butter.  In a few
minutes they are done brown, and are then to be
removed and served up hot and dry, not put into
grease again.  In this way the foul is "tender as
chicken,” and is a great delicacy.  If you don't
believe it, try it, and if you do belive it, try it.
     Crusted Apple Pudding—Pare, core and stew
slightly, two quarts of tart, mellow apples, and
place them in a pudding-dish; then, to one and a
half pints of wheatmeal, add one gill of currants,
and boiling water enough to make a dough, stirring
lightly until mixed; roll it out one-third of an
inch thick, and spread over the apples.  Bake it
in a quick oven forty or fifty minutes, take out, re-
verse on a hot plate, mash the apples with a spoon,
and sweeten, if desired; cut in pieces like a pie,
and serve warm, with some fruit sauce.
	The Housewife's Table.—The following is a very
valuable housewife's table, by means of which,
persons not having scales and weights at hand may
readily measure the article wanted to form any
recipe without the trouble of weighing, allowance
to be made for an extraordinary dryness or mois-
ture of the article weighed or measured:
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, 1 pound, 2 ounces are one quart.
	Butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart,
	Loaf sugar broken, 1 pound is 1 quart
	White sugar, powdered, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1
	quart. 
	Best brown sugar, 1 pound 2 ounces are 1 quart.
	Ten eggs are 1 pound. 

[Column 2]
	Dio Lewis's Receipt for a Bed.—Of the eight
pounds which a man eats and drinks in a day it is
thought that no less than five pounds leave his body
through the skin.  And of these five pounds a 
considerable percentage escapes during the night
while he is in bed.  The larger part of this is wa-
ter, but in addition there is much effete and poison-
ous matter.  This, being in great part gaseous in
form, permeates every part of the bed.  Thus all
parts of the bed—mattresses, blankets, as well as
sheets—soon become foul, and need purification.
The mattress needs this renovation quite as much
as the sheets.  To allow the sheets to be used with-
out washing or changing three or six months would
be regarded as bad housekeeping, but I insist, if a
thin sheet can absorb enough of these poisonous
excretions of the body to make it unfit for use in a 
few days, a thick mattress, which can absorb and 
retain a thousand times as much of the poisonous
excretions needs to be purified as often certainly
as once in three months.  A sheet can be washed.
A mattress cannot be renovated in this way.  In-
deed, there is no other way of cleaning a mattress
but by steaming it or picking it to pieces, and thus
in fragments exposing it to the direct rays of the
sun. As these processes are scarcely practicable
with any of the ordinary mattresses, I am decided-
ly of the opinion that the good, old fashioned straw
bed, which can every three months be exchanged
for fresh straw and the tick washed, is the sweet-
est and healthiest of beds.  If, in the winter sea-
son, the porousness of the straw bed makes it a
little uncomfortable, spread over it a comforter or
two woolen blankets, which should be washed as
often as every two weeks.  With this arrangement,
if you wash all the bed-covering as often as once in
one or two weeks, you will have a delightful,
healthy bed.  Now, if you leave the bed to air
with open windows during the day, and not make
it up for the night before evening, you will have
added greatly to the sweetness of your rest and in
consequence to the tone of your health.  I heartily
wish this good change could be everywhere intro-
duced.  Only those who have thus attended to this
important matter can judge of its influence on the
general health and spirits.


[Column 1]
		HYGENIC NOTES.

	FROM THE HERALD OF HEALTH.

	HOW TO AVOID COLDS.—Is there any
method of living by which one can avoid
colds and coughs in winter and spring?
	ANS.—Oh yes. These ailments may be
largely avoided by proper care. The follow-
ing hints will perhaps serve you. Never
wear wet clothes after active muscular ex-
ertion has ceased, but change them at once;
always meet the loss of body heat by warm
fluids and dry clothes; avoid long sustained
loss of heat which is not counteracted by
increased production of heat; increase the
tonicity of the vessels of the skin by cold
baths, so educating them to contract readily
on exposure; avoid too warm and debilita-
ting rooms and temperatures; take especial
care against too great loss of heat when the
skin is glowing, and to prevent the inspira-
tion of cold air by the mouth by some pro-
tecting agent, as a respirator. We can
readily understand how a respirator should
be an effective protection against winter
bronchitis in those so disposed. 
	PRECAUTION AGAINST INFECTION.—When
one watches  the sick who have such
diseases as are likely to be spread, what
precautions are to be taken to prevents the
spread of the disease from one person to
another?
	ANS.—1, Be careful to have the air of the 
sick-room pure and frequently changed.   2, 
See that all the secretions are disinfected
properly.  3, Have the Patient properly

[Column 2]
﻿bathed. The bath swallows up much poi- 
sonous matter, and a little carbolic acid in it
will be advantageous. 4, Never eat, drink, 
or sleep in the sick room, or go into it if not
needed; or go in when tired, and exhaus-
ted, or ill, or hungry.
	SCURFY HEAD.—Will you be kind enough
inform me what is good for scurf in the
head?
	ANS.—Have your head thoroughly cleaned
every week, and wear your hair short, so
the light and air can get in and the scurf
get out. It is no wonder that so many
complain of scurfy heads
	TO WARM COLD FEET.—What would
you propose to keep the feet warm, when one
has always kept their lower limbs well
clothed, and still suffers from cold feet?
	ANS.—The feet remedies are hot footbaths
at night, exercise of the feet, and care to
have the blood supplied with good food.
	CODDLING CHILDREN.—Is it wise to cod-
dle, or tenderly rear our children?
	ANS.—Yes, if you want to develop hot-
house men and women from them; other-
wise, no. To coddle means to keep in-doors
in all but fine weather, to dress too warmly
in mild weather, to feed on nicknacks, and
keep the breath of heaven from touching.
A hot-house exotic child is never safe from
the slightest changes, whereas a child accus-
tomed to cold, rarely takes cold.
	THREAD WORMS.—Please tell me what
will cure thread worms, which are  preva-
lent among children.
	ANS.—Feed them on clean, plain, whole-
some food; plenty of brown bread and milk,
and fruit. These worms do not thrive on
fruit.
	MARBLE-TOP STANDS.—Are marble-top
stands and tables healthy for invalids who
work or write near them?
	ANS.—No. They are cold, and rapidly
absorb the heat and vitality of the body,
robbing it of its life. We have heard of
one invalid whom the doctor could not cure,
till one day he noticed she used a marble
stand, and suspected it had something to do
with her ill health. So he forbade her
touching it. Soon she was cured. We
know healthy people who feel the twinges
of pain in a shoulder by sitting near one.
They are elegant articles of furniture: but
unhealthy for all that.
	CITY VS. COUNTRY CHILDREN.—Why are
city children more precocious than coutry
children?
	ANS.—Because there is more in a city to
call into exercise the brain, and less to de-
velop the body.  The rustic youth looks and
acts dull by the side of the city boy; but at
middle age he is generally the better man,
for the city youth expends his nerve force,
while the country youth store his up for fu-
ture use. The precocity of the city youth
should be retarded.  Keep them away from
balls, parties, theatres, evening amusements.
Send them to the country often. Give them
a year on a farm now and then, or teach
them a trade.
	HARDENING CHILDREN.—If children are
hardened, are not all the feeble ones killed?
	ANS.—They should not all be hardened
alike, but brought up as near as possible to
their needs.  Let the feeble ones be gently
but gradually hardened, not suddenly ex-
posed to what may kill them.  The harden-
ing process, if properly applied, will injure
none, but, on the contrary, may be made
useful to the most feeble.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUTH AND LIBERTY.

	The most elevating and ennobling heri-
tage that God has vouchsafed to man, is en-
shrined in Truth and Liberty.  When the
mighty God of battles goes forth to combat
with falsehood and error, Truth is His
strongest weapon, and knowledge his great-
est power; Truth was revealed to man; and
lo the light of immortality broke through
the starless gloom, and made it the portal
of eternal day: that day whon the light of
revelation inspired the noble patriots that
framed the Constitution of this once glori-
ious American Republic.  Where now
are those veteran Fathers, where now is
that freedom of which the American peo-
ple have so long boasted? Is it found in our
lovely Deseret, or in New Orleans where
the mighty conflict for liberty cost the no-
blest blood of our veteran Fathers who wil-
lingly fought and died, to bequeath to their
posterity the richest legacy ever bestowed
upon man?  To the standard of Liberty,
all nations have looked with a fond hope to
find a home where freedom and equal rights
could be enjoyed by the poor and oppressed
who would come and maintain the Consti-
tion.  Shall it ever be said of the Godess
of Liberty whose proud head has been
reared by the shedding of the blood of our
veteran Fathers, that she had cause to
mourn and bow the head in shame or bathe
her cheeks in tears, that her sacred name
has been desecrated by political dema-
gogues and office seeking carpet baggers,
who love not our Country's honor but their
own aggrandisement?  God forbid!  Let every
true American citizen join in one universal
answer, no! until that sacred name LIBERTY
—shall be honored and heard to reverberate
from the Atlantic in the east to the Pacific
in the west and be re-echoed in cries of Lib-
erty from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico,
until every State and Territory shall unite
in the one great clause in the nation's con-
stitution.  "All men are born free and equal
and have the right to serve God according
to the dictates of their own consciences."
	Where is there another nation under the
whole heavens in which the Kingdom of
God could have been organized and set up,
without violating the laws of the land?
No where!  The immortal Washington, the
Father of his country, was inspired by the
spirit of truth, to raise the standard of lib-
erty where truth could exist, and find a
home in the hearts of the children of men;
to shine forth in power and splendor, until
"darkness and error shall flee away like the
mists of the morning before the noonday
sun.  Until it shall no more be said that
darkness covers the earth and gross dark-
ness the minds of the people." But peace
shall flow like a river and the knowledge of
God shall cover the earth as the waters do
the great deep.  And men shall beat their
swords into ploughshares and their spears
into pruning hooks; and the nations shall
learn war no more.  This is the mission of
Truth and Liberty, so beautifully illustrated
by the poet, P. P. Pratt, in the "Standard
of Zion."
	"The white flag so rare, still floating in air,
Proclaims 'mid the mountains that peace is now there."
	May every true patriot and friend of lib-
erty proclaim against any violation of their
constitutional rights, until "peace on earth,
and good will towards man," shall be added
to truth and liberty, and hasten the day
when the righteous shall rule.  For "when
the wicked rule, the people mourn."
							W. E.


WHEN does water resemble a gymnast?
—When it makes a spring.


﻿HOW TO TREAT THE LITTLE ONES.

	The baby's night-gown should be white
flannel.  The red flannel many mothers
fancy may poison its skin. The old-time
red dies were well enough but the present
reds are all poisonous and should not be worn
next to the skin by either old or young.
They are particularly mischievous to the
delicate skin of our young people. All of
the modern dyes are poisonous. If there are
any exceptions I have not been able to learn
the fact, although I have taken pains to
question those who are engaged in the dye-
ing business. The little ones should have
white flannel next  their skin day and night.
It is the only proper material to place next
the skin of any human being day or night,
no matter in what climate or at what season
of the year.
	Perhaps I ought to add that the superior-
ity of flannel is greater during the summer
than during the winter. In the hottest
weather a single thickness of flannel for a
night-gown will give the baby abundant
protection, whereas if it wears cotton next
to the skin it is soon wet with perspiration
and then there must be two or three more
thicknesses over it to furnish the protection
against a breeze which a single thickness of
flannel next the skin could afford. Our lit-
tle people should have their night-dresses
made with drawers closed at the bottom.
With this dress and lying upon a fresh straw
pillow, with the same for the little head and
sleeping in a little room, the small shaver
will have a chance, even in the hottest sea-
son, to not only sleep sweetly, but to grow.
Besides these and other considerations
which I will not name the woolen dress
serves, by its mechanical irritation, to
keep up a better circulation in the skin.
	Don't rock them. Don't rock them either
in crib or chair. The motion is an un-
healthy one. Try it yourself! Rock stead-
ily for half an hour and see how you feel.
I am glad that rockers are going out of
fashion. They have injured thousands of
our little people.
	Don't push them backward. Many adults
can't ride backward in the cars or in a car-
riage. When you have your little chap out
for a ride in his little carriage don't push
him backward. I have often noticed the
little passengers as they were jolted along
backward, off one stone and up another,
turning their eyes this way and that in a
painfully-bewildered way. The only avenue
to their souls is that through their eyes.
Pray don't set that all topsy-turvy.
	Don't churn its brains. Don't bounce it
on your knee or give it that great toss up
and down in your hands. No one but a
first class tumbler can stand such nonsense.
How many fatal diseases of the head have
originated in this common practice of the
nursery must have been very large. And I
have no doubt that a still greater number
must have been hurt who have contrived to
survive the stupid blunder.
	If you think your baby likes exercise rub
and knead its little naked body gently, but
thoroughly, morning and evening. This
will do wonders in giving the little fellow
not only much from your vital magnetism,
but will contribute to its circulation and
the activity of its abdominal viscera.—Dio
Lewis.


IT is better to run in old clothes than to
run in debt.

	A LITTLE girl watching the balloon ascen-
sion at Lewiston, Me., exclaimed, "Mamma,
I shouldn't think God would like to have
that man go up to heaven alive."


﻿USE OF SILENCE.

	A pity so few people understand the full
effect of well-timed silence! How eloquent
it is in reality! Acquiescence, contradic-
tion, deference, disdain, embarrasment and
awe, may all be expressed by saying noth-
ing. It may be necessary to illustrate this
apparent paradox by a few examples. Should
you hear an assertion which you may deem
false made by some one of whose veracity
politeness may withhold you from openly
declaring your doubt, you denote a differ-
ence of opinion by remaining silent. Are
you receiving a reprimand from a superior?
You mark your respect by an attentiive si-
lence. Are you compelled to listen to the
frivolous conversation of a fop? You signi-
fy your opinion of him by treating his lo-
quacity with contemptuous silence.
	Again: how much domestic strife might
have been prevented, how often the quarrel
which by mutual aggravation has, perhaps,
terminated in bloohshed, had it been
checked in the commencement by a judic-
ious silence! Those persons only who have
experienced them are aware of the benefi-
cial effects of that forbearance, which to the
exasperating threat, the malicious sneer, or
the unjustly imputed culpability, shall nev-
er answer a word. A soft answer turns
away wrath; but sometimes erring human-
ity cannot give this soft answer in moments
of irritation; in such cases, there stands the
fortress of silence, with doors wide open, as
refuge for the tired spirit until calmer mo-
ments come. Think of this seriously, you
who glory in having "the last word."


﻿FLOWERS. 

	ONE of the illusions is that the present
hour is not the critical, decisive hour.
Write it on your heart that every day is the
best day in the year. No man has learned
anything rightly until he knows that every
day is dooms-day—Emerson.
	A FRIEND of the writer, just dead, could
not tolerate evil speaking in his presence
always saying, “Don’t take the judge’s
chair.” Another, when evil is spoken
against another says, “Go on. I’m ready
to hear. Only remember, I shall go at once
to the person, and tell him all you say of
him.” Another used to exclaim, “Stop
the trial till we send for the accused, and
hear what he has to say for himself.—New-
man Hall.


﻿“ANOTHER HUSBAND.”—A lady was relat-
ing to her five-year old boy the story of a
little fellow, whose father was taken ill and
died, after which the youngster set himself
diligently to work to support himself and his
mother. When she had finished her story,
she said:
	"Now, Tommy, if pa were to die, would
not you work to help mamma?"
	"Why, ma," said the little fellow, not rel-
ishing the idea of work, "what for? Ain't
we got a good house to live in, and every-
thing so nice?"
	"Oh, yes, my child," said the mother;
"but we can't eat the house, you know!"
	"Well, ain't we got plenty of things in the
pantry?" said the young hopeful.
	"Certainly, my dear," replied the mother;
"but they will not last long—and what
then?”	
	“Well, ma,” said the little incorrigible,
"ain't there enough to last till you can get
another husband?"
	Ma gave it up.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	DOMESTIC "sauce" is kept in family
jars. 	
	WHY do women talk less in February than
in any other month?  Because it is the short-
est month in the year.
	A CALIFORNIA navy-yard clerk has in-
vented a paper cravat. He evidently hails
from Con-neck-tie-cut.—N.Y. World.
	"AM I not a little pale?" inquired a lady,
who was short and corpulent, of a crusty
old bachelor. "You look more like a big
tub," was the blunt reply.
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolutions to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a young
couple with collicky baby.
	JOSH Billings says, "If yu are going to
giv a man enny thing giv it tu him cheer-
fully, and quick, dont make him git down
on his kneeze in front ov yu, nnd, listen to
the 10 commandments, and then give him
five cents."
	TWO farmers were recently heard in one
of the Wilton stores trading hens. One
would trade for 37 1/2 cents, and the other for
38 bents. Having talked about an hour one
of them declared he would not trade at 38
cents any way, for the hen was not of a
right build to lay well.
	A MAN attracted attention in Troy by his
queer demeanor. He seemed to see something
interesting in the buttons on ladies' dresses,
and in several cases was impertinent in his
close examinations. Finally he found a dress
from which a button was gone. He seized
the wearer, pulled from his pocket a button,
and compared it with those left on the
dress. It matched. She was his prisoner.
He was a detective and she had stolen the
dress.
	WILL S. Hays, the song maker, tells this
story in the Louisville Courier Journal: In
the barber shop of the Metropolitan Hotel,
in that city, he saw a tall rough looking man
leaning against the wall. A dandy came
in, took off his hat and coat, and coolly
handed them to the stranger, whom he
mistook for a barber. The stranger as coolly
hung them on a peg, and when the dandy
said, "Trim my hair," he pointed to a chair.
The encircling of the neck with a towel, and
the preliminary flourish of the shears, were
barber-like, but when the dandy felt the
hair being cropped close to the scalp, he
leaped from the chair and ran to the mirror.
"What have you done?" he shouted in de-
monstrated wrath. "Well," replied the
stranger, still cool, "you said cut it, and I
wasn't going to refuse a little favor like
that, nor make a half-way job of  it, neith-
er."


﻿Remember.—Take, heart, all who toil;
all youth in humble situations, all in ad-
verse circumstances, and those who labor
unappreciated. If it be but to drive the
plough, strive to do it well; if only to cut
bolts, make good ones; or blow the bellows,
keep the iron hot. It is attention to business
that lifts the feet higher up on the ladder.


O!	Good God, please make poor Mamma
Well!” prayed little Georgie Winslow, as he
knelt beside his mother’s bed in the sick
chamber. Georgie did not know that it was
already well with his mother, that the dear
Lord had allowed her to enter the beautiful
spirit home. But the lady who describes
the scene, says it was one of melting solem-
nity.


WOMAN’S RECORD. 

	MRS. McDonald of Calais, Me., went rid-
ing the other night, and wrapped her little
baby so closely it was smothered to death.
	JENNIE June says in her last letter: "It
is no longer a secret that Miss Anna Dick-
inson has left the platform and is studying
for the stage."
	MRS. Jamieson Livingstone, who had
lived through a century, and had been a ser-
vant to Sir Walter Scott, died recently, near
Glasgow, Scotland.
	MISS Helen M. Knowlton edits the Fine
Art department of  "Old and New," and will
hereafter occupy a prominent place in that
magazine.
	MRS. Amelia Robbins, wife of Daniel
Robbins of Conway, on the 3rd of February,
1873, gave birth to three daughters; and on
the 25th of November, 1874, she gave birth
to a son. So in 21 months four young Rob-
bins were added to the nest.
	MISS Harriet K. Hunt, M. D., who died
recently in Boston, began the practice of
medicine forty years ago, at the age of
twenty-nine.  She was the pioneer woman
doctor, and achieved a successful and satis-
factory practice.
	A LETTER from Honesdale, Pa., states
that a young woman named Crissie Haeker,
the daughter of a wealthy farmer at White
Valley, on Wednesday, under religious fa-
naticism, built an altar, and laid herself
thereon and burned herself to death.
	MADAME Emma Seiler, a German lady
residing in Philadelphia, has, since the
publication of her work entitled, "The
Voice in Singing" (1869), been recognized
as a competent authority on the subject, to
the study of which she has long devoted
herself.
	MRS. Elizabeth Weston of Detroit, aged
76, recently made a cotton shirt for her hus-
band by hand in nine hours, into which she
put eleven thousand and nine hundred
stitches, threading her needles herself, all of
which she accomplished without the aid of 
spectcles.
	MRS. Celman, isster of the late John Stu-
art Mill, recently presided at a meeting of
tailoresses in Bristol, England, and in the
course of her address, said: "For many
years she had taken a very great interest in
working men and women, and when she
saw how much had been obtained by men
as the result of combination, how their
hours of labor had been reduced and their
wages increased, she had faith that if the
women of England would only unite to-
gether, they would in a very short time ma-
terially alter their present condition."


WORKED TOO HARD.

	If woman could be free from hard labor
until she reaches the age of twenty, man-
kind would be the gainer. This is a physio-
logical matter, and the result of our inves-
tigation of  facts in this connection, and our
careful consideration of the subject, leads
us to express the hope that, if no other
subject connected with the labor question
is thought worthy of legislation, this may
be selected for legislative study and action.
No argument is necessary to convince people
of the importance of giving the years under
sixteen in a girl's life, to growth and de-
velopment of her organization, on the
healthy condition of which so much de-
pends—her own health and usefulness, not
only to herself, but to those dependent on
her.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
			GO TO
		MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
		19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
		Of the Latest Style.
	Giver her a call, she will be sure to please you.
		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.30.
Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club	-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club	-	-	-	-	-		  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 	-	-	-	-	- 	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

