VOL. 3.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, August 15, 1874.				No. 6.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SHALL FEMALE students be admitted to
the Andover Theological Seminary? is the
question being discussed by those interes-
ted.
	FOUR YEARS ago, the first lady Superin-
tendent of Schools in Iowa, was elected.
This year, only fifteen have attained to that
office. This is encouraging.
	A MAN AT Grass Valley, named Wm.
Hopkins, tried to scald his wife but badly
scalded himself instead. He doubtless feels
somewhat prejudiced, just now against the
“Water-cure” system.
	THE DAMAGE done by the storm in Mora-
via was far greater than the earlier estimates
indicated. Two towns and eleven villages
were devastated by the destroying elements,
Troops have been sent there by the Govern-
ment to assist the survivors.
	AN EASTERN paper says: “Three Bishops,
in the Methodist Episcopal Church in the
United States, advocate and defend woman
suffrage.”  That may do for a beginning but
we think our Christian friends are rather
slow. In Utah, a bishop that does not de-
fend woman suffrage is, we believe, an ex-
ception to the rule.
	A PHOTOGRAPHER IN Paris has been fined
100 francs for publishing the ex-Prince Im-
perial’s portrait. But a few years since the
ex-Prince seemed to be the destined ruler
of France and was educated with that idea;
now he is an exile and dare not set foot in
his native country. Who can envy such
fluctuating greatness!
	THE FOLLOWING is another proof of wo-
man's skill when properly exercised: One
of the ladies employed as a counter in the
national bank redemption division of the
Treasury Department discovered among the
notes sent for redemption one of the coun-
terfeit five hundred dollar bills originally
discovered at the Treasury Department
about a year ago. It was so perfect that
several of the most experienced clerks in
the Treasurer's office thought it was genu-
ine, but upon reference to the engraving
and printing division, it was, after an ex-
amination, pronounced a counterfeit. The
note will be branded and returned to the
national bank from which it was received.
	THERE HAS been so much said about the
degredation of the Mormon women of Utah
—who have, from the first, voted in Church
affairs; and whose fathers, husbands and
brothers extended to them the elective
franchise when it was an almost untried ex-
periment—that we feel interested in noting
the gradual conversion of the different re-
ligious societies, to the doctrine of “Woman
Suffrage.” Lately the Christian denomi-
nation, in New England, adopted the fol-
lowing resolution, by a vote of twenty-
three against nine.
	Resolved, That this New England Chris-
tian Convention regard the movement of
the Women of New England, for the exten-
sion  Suffrage to women, as a new appli-
cation of Christian principles to the social
relations, as a measure demanded by the
highest considerations of right and justice,
and essential to the publice welfare.
	ANOTHER TERRIBLE fire devastated
about sixty acres of buildings in Chicago,
on the 24th ult. Among the buildings
burned were the Post Office and quite a
number of prominent churches, hotels and
fine residences. The loss of property was
immense. Through the precaution of the
Postmaster there, the mail matter was re-
moved to a place of safety. This is no small
item if, as it is reported, "One-eighth of
the Post-Office business transacted in the
United States is done in Chicago.”
	“THE UNIVERSITY of Kansas has just 
graduated two young ladies. One received
a diploma as Bachelor of Science, the other
a diploma as Bachelor of Arts."   We used
to think it somewhat odd that the title of
Bachelor of Arts, Music, Science, etc. should
be conferred indiscriminately, whether the
honored recipient was married or single.
But that is nothing since a young lady can
sign the formidable initials, B. A, or B. S.
after her name. We are highly in favor of
young ladies striving to attain to the high-
est scholastic honors and hope that the pro-
gressive spirit of the age will introduce
more appropriate titles than some now in
use.
	TIMES HAVE not been hard only in Utah.
The following clipping from the Stocktou
Leader does not present a very cheerful
prospect for many “down East.”—The dull
Winter has in the east been succedeed by a
dull Summer. A correspondent writing
from Philadelphia gives a picture which is
true of all the Eastern cities:
	“Times are hard here—what this winter
will bring forth, I know not. One thing is
certain, and that is, those who exhausted
their little savings last winter, trusting to
summer work to replenish their stock, have
been badly disappointed and must meet the
next cold season less well prepared than they
did last. I know that carpenters, painters,
and bricklayers have made, so far, this sum-
mer not over half time, taking the trades
as a whole. One painting firm, usually em-
ploying eighty or ninety men, has this sea-
son had no trouble in filling their jobs with
twenty-five or thirty and other trades in
the building line are no doubt as badly off.
There is much public building work too, or
it would be worse. They say that the cen-
tennial contractors have employed Italians
at $1.25 per day, refusing men who wanted
$1.75 or $2.”
	THE ALANTHUS, or as it is commonly
called, the “tree of Paradise,” has been
used for quite a number of years in Utah,
as a shade tree. Its rapid growth and ele-
gant foliage doubtless rendered it popular
at first but these qualities, we have long
thought, do not compensate for its scanty
foliage and disagreeable odor when in bloom.
In a previous number we re-published an
article, in which the writer claimed to have
been externally poisoned through coming in
contact with the foliage while cutting one
down. And we now give an extract from
a communication by a physician to an east-
ern paper, as to its poisonous qualities.
"Several years ago it became my duty to
attend, professionally, a family of three per-
sons. This family had used for some time
water from a well in which the Ailanthus
had shed its blossoms. The taste, so charac-
teristic of the active principle of this tree,
was imparted to the water. The several
members of this family suffered severely,
the symptoms resembling somewhat those
of slow poison by strychnine. They discon-
continued the use of this water and slowly
recovered, which recovery started from the
day they began using water from a differ-
ent well."
	THE FOLLOWING account, showing how
"Boss" Tweed is treated in prison, may be
interesting as showing the difference be-
tween rich and poor convicts. There is one
thing, however, we like in it; that is the
devotion of his sons to their father, even in 
his disgrace.—
	"Mr. Tweed is waited upon every day
by his sons, who bring him wines, liquors,
and all the delicacies of the season, of which
he always has an assortment. James Carew,
the hero of the bogus express company, who
was sentenced a few months ago, performs
the duty of valet for him. He blacks his
boots, keeps his room in order, and in gen-
eral makes him comfortable. The furniture
of the "dismal cell" that overlooks the river
to the east is of French walnut. There is a
cabinet washstand, a desk and three or four
chairs, all of the same handsome material.
The ordinary prison bed consists of a straw
mattress covered with one sheet. Mr. Tweed
is forced to lie on a spring bed with two 
mattresses, a hair bolster and two feather
pillows. There is a patchwork quilt and a
white countepane. A green rep sofa, which
when ordered, was found to be too large to
be taken into his room, stands just outside,
and serves as a convenient seat to lounge
upon, reminding his callers of the old ele-
gance that met their eyes while they were
cooling their heels in the ante-room of the
famous brown-stone building on Broadway.
A selection of standard books adorn the
shelves of a commodious library and the
floor is nicely carpeted."
	ON THE morning of the 5th, the steamer
"Pat. Rogers," with her entire cargo of
cotton, was burned near Aurora. About
twenty persons lost their lives, besides sev-
eral badly burned. The following vivid
description of the scene seems almost too 
terrible to read.—"The negro crew behaved
badly, hurrying of the boat before there was
any imminent danger, and monopolizing
all available means of escape. Many who
escaped to shore were disfigured for life by
the flames that blew strongly in that direc-
tion from the boat. Miss Rowden, of Louis-
ville, jumped from the boat toward the Indi-
ana shore, and hungry tongues of flames were
licking along the surface of the water and
horribly burnt her head and face; she had no
life preserver, and only secured one end of
a plank by clinging to the pantaloon leg of a
man who swam past her; she says that while
moving through the water several gasping
drowning wretches extended their hands
towards her, some even grasping her hair
and tearing out handfulls in their terror;
the last living object seen on board was a
little child three or four years of age, run-
ning about screaming with affright, sur-
rounded by flames, its legs, arms and face
exposed to the terrible heat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

	Strange, we never prize the music
	     Till the sweet-voiced birds are flown
	Strange that we should slight the violets,
	     Till the lovely flowers are gone;
	Strange that summer skies and sunshine
	     Never seem one-half so fair,
	As when winter's snowy pinions,
	     Shake the white down in the air.

	Lips from which the seal of science,
	     None but God can roll away,
	Never blossomed of such beauty,
	     As adorns the mouth to-day;
	And sweet words that freight our memory,
	     With their beantiful perfume,
	Come to us in sweeter accents,
	     Through the portals of the tomb.

	Let us gather up the sunbeams;
	     Lying all around our path;
	Let us keep the wheat and roses,
	     Casting out the thorns and chaff;
	Let us find our sweetest comfort,
	     In the blessings of the day,
	With a patient hand removing
	     All the briers from our way.


R. S. REPORTS.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, July 27th.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear but little from the
Relief Society of this place, we are still
alive; and though we do not make a big
noise, our course is onward, and by the
help of our Father, we intend it shall con-
tinue so.
	A special meeting of the sisters of this
place was called on the 19th inst., as we had
the pleasure of a visit from Mrs. Mary I.
Horne. On account of such a short notice,
there were not as many assembled as if it
had been more widely circulated, but those
present were extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciated Sister Horne's
kind words of counsel and comfort, which
will, without doubt, be lastingly remembered.
We were also favored with the presence of
Bishops Budge and Horne, who encouraged
the Society to press forward, and bore their
testimonies to the truth of this Work. An
excellent spirit prevailed, and the Society
felt greatly blessed and benefitted.
	The ever memorable "24th" found the
people of this place well prepared to enjoy
the day. There were the usual firing of
guns, hoisting of the "stars and stripes," etc.
A procession under the direction of the
Marshal, marched to the Social Hall where
singing by the Sunday School Choir, music
by the Brass Band, speeches by Pres. Chas.
C. Rich and Bishop Budge, recitations;
songs and toasts followed each other in their
order.
	We all feel interested in the progress of
the EXPONENT and are greatly pleased with
its advancement. Accept our success of
your interesting and valuable paper and may
the spirit of God be with you continually to
assist you in all your good efforts.
		ALICE A. MARGETTS, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the town of Pan-
guitch was organized December 10th, 1873;
it now numbers seventy-eight members and
is progressing very favorably. It is an or-
ganization from God, and as such we feel a
pleasure in being numbered with the Soci-
ety here in Panguitch, though it is only a
small branch, as it were, just putting forth
its first leaves. The great design of this
Society is to do good and instruct one an-
other; to lift up and not pull down; to com-
fort those who mourn; help the poor;
teach each other how to live, be industrious
and set an example of neatness and piety
worthy of imitation; to help us improve the
talents God has given us; to help prepare
[right column]
us for an exaltation in the Celestial King-
dom; to unite us; teach us to love one an-
other and cease to do evil, and to ennoble and
fit us for Eternity.
		MYRA HENRIE, President,
		MARY ANN P. MARSHALL,
						Secretary.

	Through a communication from Mill
Creek, in this county, we learn that the Re-
lief Society of that place is fully organized
with the following officers: Mrs. Mary Mc-
Allister, President; Mrs. Ann Morgan and
Mrs. Elizabeth Park, Counselors; Mrs.
Horace Miller, Treasurer; Mrs. Christina
Miller and Mrs. Elizabeth Carlisle, Secreta-
ries. At an interesting meeting held there
a number of visitors were present, includ-
ing Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. Young, Mrs.
E. Howard, Mrs. H. Brinton and Bro. Wm.
Young. All the officers and members of
the Relief Society were also present. A
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
was organized with Miss Joan Helm for
President, with six counselors; Mrs. Marga-
ret Spencer, Superintendent and Miss Linda
North, Secretary. Seventy-four members
joined the Association.


﻿THE SEX.

	MISS Whately has organized large schools
for Mohammedan children at Cairo.
	FLORENCE Nightingale and Harriet Mar-
tineau are among 18,000 English women
petitioners for the right of Suffrage.
	MRS. Foster has climbed to the summit of
Popocatapetl, the greatest altitude ever at-
tained by a woman.
	A YOUNG Japanese lady, who is being
educated at Georgetown, received four first
premiums at the Commencement a few days
ago.
	MRS. Addie L. Ballou has received letters
of thanks from several of the inmates of
the Oregon Penitentiary for the cheering
words spoken by her during a recent visit to
the institution.
	MRS. Hilton has built up a day nursery at
Ratcliff, England. It is one of the best, and
has served as a model for many. Miss
Cooper has opened and managed a combined
club, reading room and lecture course for
costermongers.
	A WOMAN is to have the honor of furnish-
ing the design for Dr. Livingstone's statue.
The foreign exchanges report that about
$4000 have been subscribed to the fund rais-
ing in Edinburgh for the statue of the late
Dr. Livingstone. The design accepted for
the statue is that of Mrs. Hill, sister of Sir
Noel Paton.
	MISS Richards has very successfully con-
cluded at Stapletown, near Bristol, England,
the feat of walking one thousand miles in
one thousand consecutive hours. When she
began, on the 18th of May, an application
was made to the magistrates to interfere;
but it was unsuccessful, on the ground that
the young woman was a free agent.
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a blind-
school in a Holburn cellar, for which she
paid eighteen pence a week. She has now
a thousand pupils, whom she has taught to
support themselves. They maintain the
Institution that gives them a home, an edu-
cation and an occupation. Its maintenance
costs $40,000 a year. This work of a poor,
blind woman may fairly be compared with
any of the marvels history records as
wrought by blind men.


MISS Rye, who began her work a few
years ago on a capital of $3750, has helped
178 governesses to emigaate to the British
colonies, where they have all, mainly through
her efforts, found employment. She has put
1500 English women into good places as do-
mestics in Australia and New Zealand.
She has personally taken to Canada and
placed in respectable families 1200 children
of the London streets. Nine-tenths of them
are girls, "who, but for their benefactress'
efforts, were condemned inevitably to a life
of the lowest degradation." Miss Macpher-
son has done the same good work for 1800
poor girls.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	COFFEE is being cultivated in Amador
Co., California.
	SAN FRANCISCO has given $20,000 to the
Louisiana sufferers.
	MICHIGAN'S wool clip this year will
amount to 6,000,000 pounds.
	A YOUNG lady in East Salem, Or., has of-
ficiated as bridesmaid twenty-two times.
	A LADY of Kansas aged sixty-eight has
astonished her husband by presenting him
with a baby.
	A MAN in Nebraska made, last spring, 300
gallons of sirup from maple trees planted
nine years ago.
	THE total expenditure of the Government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1874,
amounted to $287,133,873.17.
	THE city of Springfield, Mass., has a con-
science fund. Only one stricken individual,
however, has contributed to it, to the amount
of twenty dollars.
	A MAN in Victory, Vt., lost nineteen
lambs out of a flock of twenty seven, by
washing them in a solution of arsenic to
destroy the sheep ticks.
	OLEOMARGARINE or refined beef suet—a
substitute for butter— has been quoted in
the London market at from 100 to 110 shill-
ing per hundred weight.
	IN the reign of Queen Ann, the Boston
"News Letter" was the only newspaper
published in America, and it printed but
about thirteen thousand copies a year.
	MISSOURI has coal in 43 counties, iron in
48, lead in 54, zinc in 19, tin in 6, copper in
21, marble in 9, kaolin in 11, nickel in 13,
and other useful minerals distributed
throughout the State.
	IOWA has found a way to fight the grass-
hoppers. It consists in firing all the old
straw, sticks and stubble at hand, on a day
when the wind will drive the smoke through
fields infested by them. Crops have been
saved this way, and it may be the relief so
long looked for.
	THE statistical report to the State Sunday
School Convention at Portland, Oregon;
shows the following for the past year: Total
number of schools as far as obtained, 76; to-
tal number enrolled, including officers and
teachers, 7,254; total number of officers and 
teachers, 926; total number of volumes in
libraries, 6,754; total collections for all pur-
poses, $2,611.


A LITTLE boy of five years, dressed in his
first sack coat, stood leaning against his
mother's knee. "Mamma," said he, after a
pause, "I wish you had put tails to this
coat; I have wanted a tail coat these good
many years." There was silence for a space.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few words of advice to our sisters, both
young and old, may not be out of place, for
it is our duty as mothers, to be patterns to
our children, as well as to teach them good
and righteous principles. It is our duty to
be kind and affectionate in our families and
to our husbands, not only in words but in
works. Not by sitting down and grumbling
and wanting some one to wait on us so that
we can act the fine lady or trying to be bur-
dens to our husbands by saying we won't
work as long as we can get any one to do it
for us; but by waiting on ourselves, and do-
ing all that we can to help them along. We
should try to have our meals ready in good
time and have them as palatable and nour-
ishing as possible for our husbands who are
constantly laboring for us. We should try 
to cultivate order in our homes, for it is one
of Heaven's first laws. We should teach
our children to love, respect and obey their 
parents, and shun all company who do not;
for if they associate with such companions
they will partake of the same spirit. It is
our duty to look well to our children and to
know what company they keep. This is es
pecially important with our girls from about
twelve to sixteen years old, for there are so
many men from sixteen to thirty and even 
forty years old, and among them are some
of our so-called Mormon boys, that would
like their company; but do they go first to
their parents or whoever has the care of the
girls and ask permission to take them to a
dance or theatre or to talk to them—no they
do not. Those who will do this may be
better trusted. But those who seek the
company of girls unknown to their parents,
guardians or friends, will use stratagem
and make others think these girls really
think so much of them that they are deter-
mined to keep their company on the sly;
and they will get their sisters or cousins or
some of their associates to induce the girls
to go to some place where they can meet
them, and there pour out their poisonous
venom in the kindest and most fascinating
manner within their power, until they often
finally prove their destruction. Mothers
lay these things before your daughters, you
no doubt talk to your daughters concerning
outsiders, but such Mormons (?) as these are
worse. Young men beware of the girl that
will connive at such stratagem, for she will
doubtless practise duplicity. If you are
keeping company with a girl that you love,
dont listen to tales against her; and, as they
say, "play off" on her before you know the
truth. I have known many young people
made miserable for life by the untruths and
strategems of others, and do not remember
ever knowing a young couple to think a
great deal of each other but somebody would
try to put something between them, although
they might not succeed. Girls, take the
same advice to yourselves, especially if your
beaux are respectable.				B.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OBEDIENCE.
	The Apostle Paul said, "Let every soul
be subject to the higher powers for whoever
resisteth the ordinance resisteth the power
of God." Therefore it is necessary for us
to render obedience to those who are placed
over us by our Heavenly Father and be as-
sured that He will not place over us any one
that has not received that Higher Power
from Him. The servants of God are in pos-
session of a higher power than we ourselves
are, therefore we should obey them. It is


not only to God and his servants that we
owe obedience, but it is also due to our par-
ents who have struggled and suffered and
given every thought to make us loved, res-
pected and honored, even as they would be
themselves. Think of the care and anxiety
they have had for us; how they have
watched over us and guided our erring foot-
steps when we were unable to care for our-
selves; let us think of this and if we wish
to repay them for all they have done, be obe-
dient tot their wishes, for there is nothing
so pleasing to a parent as an obedient child.
To those who wish to do right, the word
"obedience" has no tyranny; for once start-
ed right on the path of obedience it is easy
to tread. It is not hard to do the will of
those we love; and if we really love God,
His servants and our parents, we will cheer-
fully obey them and no harm will befall us.
We should obey every good feeling of our
hearts and when a thought is presented to
us by which we can do good, act upon it; do
good wherever we can and forget ourselves
but in such a manner that it will always be
remembered by others—looking for no other
reward than that sweet satisfaction that al-
ways springs from the knowledge that we
are doing right and that we know we are
approved by our Heavenly Father. Then
let us strive with all our might, mind and
strength to overcome the many temptations
to do wrong and keep our hearts pure so that
we can receive any instruction that would
be for our good. Let us do all we can to
gain the satisfaction of our own consciences
and the approbation of our heavenly Father,
in all things. 					L. T.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		DOES IT PAY?

	"It pays best you know,” was the reply
of a lady at the dress maker's, on being
asked how she wished her dress made. "Oh!
make it very nice and stylish, it pays best
you know; a lady is noticed more, and re-
ceives more attention if she dresses well.”
	I thought to myself, is that as it should
be? Should a lady of intelligence need
flounces, and puffs, and other finery to at-
tract attention or cause her society to be ap-
preciated? There must be something wrong
somewhere. Has the public taste become so
shallow and unstable as only to appreciate
finery; or do our ladies cease to cultivate
their minds, and make their goodness and
intelligence objects of attraction?
	It is certainly necessary that a lady should
know she is neatly and becomingly dressed,
in order to feel at ease in society; but would
it not be better to spend a few of the hours,
in studying and trying to acquire useful in-
formation that are commonly spent in mak-
ing tucks and ruffles? It is very nice to see
a lady prettily dressed in clothes that are
neat and becoming, and, I think some fore-
thought should be given that our clothes
may be arranged with neatness and taste;
choosing such colors as suit the complexion
so that the general appearance may be at-
tractive. But, beyond this, we should take
some thought that our minds be stored with
useful knowledge.
	To cultivate the intelligence that God has
given us, and purify our hearts that we may
be fit companions for the wise and good,
that we may be worthy of our own respect
and the good will of those with whom we
associate, and fulfil our duties as mothers in
Israel is the highest and holiest calling which
God has given us. 				M. J. T.


INDIANAPOLIS has eighty-two railroad
offices. Every family should have one.


[For the EXPONENT.
		   RETRENCHMENT.

	Retrenchment is a subject upon which so
much might be said, that I feel incompe-
tent for the task of either speaking or writing
upon it; but Mormonism never allows its vota-
ries to say they cannot do a thing required of 
them by duty. I think retrenchment, as we
understand it, one of the greatest, as we
understand it, one of the greatest and most
glorious principles, and one calculated to do
as much good, when carried out practically,
as anything that was ever organized upon
this earth. It is not limited to dress alone
but includes everything that is calculated to
make us wise, useful and happy, while here
in this state of existence. It teaches us to
study our religion, to know no will of our
own, only the will of God; to find out His
will concerning us, and then bring ourselves
under subjection to the same. If we attend
our meetings and are in the line of our duty,
we always have a good spirit, which will
show us the right from the wrong at all
times, if we will only listen to its whisper.
And, another thing, it is surprising to see
the talent that has come to light since the
organization of these retrenchment meetings;
young women that thought it impossible for
them to write or speak any thing useful,
will both write and speak excellently. I 
believe that if we will continue as we have
begun, it is beyond our power to comprehend
the good that may be accomplished through
our diligence and faithfulness. There is a 
great responsibility resting, and will rest up-
on our shoulders; as wives and mothers, and
we will need all the help we can get in order
to acquit ourselves honorably, as daughters
of Zion; therefore I feel that "Retrench-
ment" is the very thing that is needed for
our good.					M. A. E.


FLOWERS.

	REVENGE often converts a little right in-
to a great wrong.
	HE who is always his own counsellor will
often have a fool for his client.
	RUN not after blessings; only walk in the
commandments of God, and blessings shall
run after, and overtake you.
	ALMOST every one complains of the bad-
ness of his memory, but nobody complains
of his defective judgement.
	IT has been beautifully said that "the vail
which covers the face of futurity was woven
by the hand of mercy."
	WHAT God effects through the powers
with which he has endowed man is no less
His work than the heavens and the earth
are.—A. P. Peabody.
	THE man who can refuse indulgence to a
clamoring desire, can hold the craving ape-
tite ungratified, and say to the rising pas-
sion, "Peace, be still!" is a true hero.
	THE truly great and good, in affliction
bear a countenance more princely than they
are wont; for it is the temper of the high-
est hearts, like the palm-tree, to strive most
upward when it is most burdened.
	EACH one of a thousand acts of love costs
very little by itself, and yet, when viewed
all together, who can estimate their value?
What is it that secures for one the name of
a kind neighbor? Not the doing of half a
dozen great favors in as many years, but the
little everyday kindnesses none of which
seem of much consequence considered in
itself, but the continued repitition of which
sheds a sunlight over the whole neighbor-
hood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			 LOCAL.
	On the 11th inst., Soren Larsen, a Dane,
suicided in an old log cabin, on the County
road. Domestic troubles supposed to be the
cause.......Recently a quantity of clothing
was stolen in the night, from Mr. Clive's
tailor shop on Third South St.........The an-
nual session of the Rocky Mountain Con-
ference of the M. E. Church commenced in
this city, on the 13th inst., about twenty
resident and visiting clergymen were in
attendance......Mr. John McEwan has been
elected Recorder of Provo Mining District.
......Alderman A. C. Pyper, having been
commissioned by the Governor, is now the
Justice of the peace at the City Hall......
The burning of a railway car loaded with
charcoal has occurred twice at Sandy Sta-
tion lately, under similar circumstances.....
A proposed cheap excursion from this City
to San Fransisco has fallen through.....Sev-
eral candidates placed on the "Liberal Tick-
et" repudiated their nominations before the
election on the 3rd inst......Over seventy
names, out of two hundred, on the list of
Jurors for the Second Judicial District, were
chozen from one precinct alone. This was
to secure as many non-Mormons as possible
......A fire occurred at Bingham on the 10th;
six buildings were burned......Manganese
has been found at or near Parley's Park......
Dr. S. B. Young has been appointed City
Physician.
		     PERSONAL.
	Gen. Hillyer, the last member of Gen.
Grant's original staff, died recently......Hon.
Chas. E. DeLong lately lectured to a full
house, at Eureks, Nev., the proceeds were
for the relief of the sufferers by the late in-
undation......The rumor that Vice-President
Willson had resigned or intended to on ac-
count of ill health, is contradicted by au-
thority......Senator Schurz has nearly re-
covered from the malarial fever and ex-
haustion, caused by over work, from which
he has been suffering......Charles T. Beeke,
the African explorer, is reported dead......
Charlotte Cushman is living in her villa on
Rhode Island avenue in Newport......The
Emperor of Germany sleeps on a narrow
iron bedstead, with pillows and mattress
harder than are used by the common people
in his domains......Uncle Jake Nobles, aged
one hundred and ten, and Sarah Peoples,
aged eighty-five years, were recently mar-
ried at Hot Springs, Arkansas......Geo. F.
Hoar it not anxious, seemingly, to be the
Republican candidate for Governor of Mass-
achusetts........Prince Leopold, Victoria's
youngest son, is to study law.....Marshal
Bazaine, with his wife, escaped from his
prison on the Isle of St. Marguerite on the
10th inst. The whole affair was planned
by Madame Bazaine.
			LITERARY.	Bret Harte is said to have written his last
story, "John Oakhurst," in one night......
Mr. James T. Fields is to deliver a course of
six lectures on "Modern English Litera-
ture" in Philadelphia, next winter......San
Fransico papers containing articles written
by Henri Rocheforth have been seized by
the French Government at the Post Office
in Paris......The publishers of the "Aldine,"
a popular illustrated periodical, are said to
have failed. The firm state, however, that
the failure can be "bridged over"......Miss
E. Keary—a Scandinavian by birth—has
written several books of poems which be-
token rare genius but are deeply imbued
with the stuperstitious spirit of the ancient
norsemen.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	An article in the "American Journal of
Science"' by the Rev. H. C. Hovey. shows,
from facts cited, that the bite of a skunk is
nearly always fatal and is to be dreaded as
much as that of a rattlesnake or mad dog.
......Late instances have proved that feather
beds are no protection against lightning......
A German paper states that elastic cords
have been successfully used for cutting off
tissues and removing swellings and tumors
without pain or loss of blood to the patient.


DESERET UNIVERSITY.

	Feeling a deep interest in the advance of edu-
cation in our midst, and being desirous of pro-
moting its interests, in our humble way, we
feel a pleasure in calling attention to the above
named institution. We do so, the more because
it is—in the good it designed to accomplish—
not intended for this city or neighborhood
alone but for the whole Territory; for all who
desire to, and can avail themselves of the ad-
vantages it offers.
	With the compliments of Dr. J. R. Park,
President of the University, we have received
the "Circular of the Academical Department"
for the year 1874-75 which is intended, so we
understand, for distribution to those who think
of patronizing the University and desire to
learn something of its origin, government, fa-
cilities, the course of studies, etc. The teach-
ers all bear a high reputation as educators, and
from a personal acquaintance with Dr. Park,
and others of the faculty we feel confident they
will labor faithfully for the best interests of
those under their care.  Although the classes
are open to the admission of students at any
time we would recommend students to begin
with the commencement of a term. The aca-
demical year is divided into four terms, of ten
weeks each, the first one beginning on the 24th
inst. There is one feature we are pleased to
notice, not particularly for the purpose of in-
ducing persons to take advantage of the provi-
sion it contains, but to show that the Institu-
tion is one intended for the people. It is con-
tained in the following paragraph:
	"In order to assist persons in the Territory
who may be desirous of attending the Institu-
tion, and yet are unable to bear the cost of tui-
tion, the Chancellor and Board of Regents have
established a Beneficiary Foundation. By its
provisions, such persons are admitted as stu-
dents in the University free of charge. Those
who are desirous of availing themselves of this
provision, may first apply to the President of
the Faculty."
	The following extracts are from the closing
“Address to Parents, Guardians and Friends of
Education.”—“As the University now possesses
facilities for advanced education exceeding any
it has heretofore offered, and which are fully
equal, it is believed, to the present require-
ments of the Territory, its officers feel justified
in asking for it  the influence and patronage of
the friends of education.—They are earnest to
build up the cause of education in our midst
and to fortify our home institutions by making
them worthy of a liberal patronage.—In pre-
paring the Scientific Course of Instruction for
students of the University, great care has been
taken to select only such studies as are in some
degree essential to an acquaintance with the
principles and knowledge of practical life. Thus
pruned of what is purely theoretical or disci-
plinary, the course is a practical one in the
sense which means that the student shall ac-
quire such information and attain to such disci-
pline that he may be comprehensive, and able
to view subjects in their true light and to plan
and execute without blunders. Moreover, the
course is so shortened as to place it within the
reach of every youth truly desirous of an edu-
cation.—Enough time and effort, it is believed,
are usually spent by those attending our
schools, in desultory and consequently almost
profitless study, that, if wisely directed, would
enable them to reach a respectable degree of
attainment in education. It is urged there-
fore, that all who enter this school pursue regu-
larly and fully, the course they may select.—
No students, however, will be admitted into
the Institution who are noted as refractory, or
who are not thought to be earnest for an educa-
tion, and who have not the necessary acquain-
tance with the common branches to enter its
Preliminary Course.”
	We have been lengthy on this subject be-
cause we realize it is of deep importance, and
that it is the duty of our citizens to sustain, as
far as possible, our home institutions of educa
tion.
	In concluding, we would mention that lady
students are admitted on equal terms with the
gentlemen; and this has been the case, we be-
lieve, from the commencement. This may be
thought of but little importance by many, but
the subject of the co-education of  the sexes is
become one of the prominent questions that
agitate the educational world, to-day.


TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.

	Two instances have occurred lately, in this
city, of children being severely bitten by dogs.
We think that dogs which are thought, or
known to be vicious, should be either shot or
killed in some quick and merciful manner, or, if
not killed, should be so confined that they can
do no harm. Cases of hydrophobia, one of the
most fearful deaths, have been unusually fre-
quent in the East, during the present hot sea-
son and these should be a warning to all. There
are persons, and often young people who will
thoughtlessly or maliciously tease and beat
their dogs or cats, whose bites are said to be
dangerous, until these dumb brutes become
either more savage in their natures or maddened
at the time. Such cruelty is most reprehensi-
ble, for while it is a violation of morality and
religion, it is too often the cause of some one
being dangerously hurt by these animals, while
under the influence of such treatment. Parents
should kindly and intelligently teach their
children by example and precept to be kind to
domestic animals and never ill-treat or tease
them, and if they teach them to be merciful to
the dumb creatures that God has placed here
under the dominion of man and for his use,
they will be developing qualities that will ren-
der their children more estimable in the sight
of their fellow-men and more truly noble in
their natures.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DECEASE OF MR. E. L. SLOAN.

	On Sunday night, the 2nd inst,, the above
named gentleman breathed his last at his resi-
dence in the Twentieth Ward. Although he
had been unwell for several weeks and was ap-
parently growing worse, his friends did not
realize that his end was so near.
	He was an able journalist, and the EXPONENT
had, perhaps, no other friend whose influence
was more unsparingly used in its behalf at the
time of its commencement, than was that of
Mr. Sloan. For this, respect and kindest re-
membrances are due him from those interested
in its welfare. In our short acquaintance we
found him to be a gentleman and generous
friend, ever willing to encourage, and even as-
sist us, as far as possible in our editorial duties.
	No words of consolation more appropriate,
we think, could be offered his bereaved family
and friends, than the following from his own
gifted pen:
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies down—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown.

	Dry up the unavailing tear;
		Repress the selfish sigh;
	Know that the spirit ransomed here
		Yet lives, and ne'er shall die."
	We insert a brief sketch of his life taken from
the "Salt Lake Herald," through the columns
of which he was so widely and well known
during the last few years.

	"Edward Lennox Sloan was born at Conlig,
County Down, Ireland, Nov. 9th, 1830, and
consequently at his death he was aged 43 years,
9 months and 23 days. When eighteen years of
age he became connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was ordained
an Elder and went forth as a missionary to
preach the Gospel. He first labored in Ireland,
and subsequently in England, Scotland and the
Isle of Capan. During his ministerial labors he
held several prominent positions in the Mission,
among others the presidency of the Notting-
ham, Sheffield, and Liverpool Conferences.
He was next connected with the Liverpool of-
fice, the headquarters of the European mission,
and labored upon the "Millenial Star," to the
columns of which his valuable contributions
gave an additional interest. While in this po-
sition he assisted for some time in forwarding
the Church Emigration and was otherwise ac-
tively engaged in advancing the interests of
the Church and people with whom he had cast
his lot.
	In the Fall of the year 1863 he immigrated to
Utah and was immediately employed in Presi-
dent Young's office, whence he went to the
theatre as box keeper. He was next engaged
on the "Deseret News" as assistant editor, and
afterwards on the "Daily Telegraph" where he
occupied a similar position. In 1869 he pub-
lished the Salt Lake City Directory, which was
the first work of the kind issued in this Terri-
tory. In the year 1870, in conjunction with
W. C. Dunbar, Esq., he started the Salt Lake
Daily "Herald," the first number of which was
issued on the 5th of June, since which time his
labors are well know to the public.
	Born in a land where it is difficult to rise to
any degree of eminence, without money to pur-
chase that eminence, he struggled manfully
against opposition, and early made his genius
acknowledged in his own local circles. Urged
onward by an inordinate love of books, and be-
ing withal ambitious to acquire an education,
he applied himself in his leisure moments to
study; and although he never attended school
after his eleventh year, when Mr Sloan had
grown to man's estate his education was far
superior to that of his fellows. Possessing a
powerful imagination, his inclination and de-
sires were naturally literary, and when but a
boy he had become the author of numerous
poems of acknowledged merit. His genius was
of no ordinary character, but towered above
that of common humanity, commanding for
its owner the respect of all who knew him.
But he has been cut off in his youth, as it were,
and in his death the country loses one who had
the capacity and ability to make himself great
by his accomplishments. In this Territory few
men were more widely known or respected than
the deceased, and his sad demise will occasion
deep grief and general sorrow thoughout the
length and breadth of Utah. He was known
to be an arduous laborer for and ardent defend-
er of the rights of the people, and it is the peo-
ple who will mourn his loss."


LITERARY NOTICE.

	Dora Darmoore's journal for women, “The
Homestead,” is again on our editorial table-
after a few months interval. It is a neatly got,
ten up monthly, published at Oakland, Cal.,
and evidently reflects the fine literary talents
of its editor. We wish it success.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UTAH Northern R. R. Company give
notice, dated Aug. 5th, that hereafter they will
discontinue running trains on Sundays.
	ELECTION RETURNS have been received from
a number, and all, except Tooele, show a huge
majority for the People's Ticket. We hope to
give more particulars in our next.
	INFORMATION WANTED.—Any person know-
ing the whereabouts of David Owen, who emi-
grated from Rumney, South Wales, in 1862,
will confer a favor by communicating his ad-
dress to John Rees, Wales, Sanpete Co., Utah
Territory.—Deseret News.
	PROF. KARL G Maeser expects to commence
the next regular term of the Twentieth Ward
Seminary on the 10th inst. Besides the prima-
ry, intermediate and grammar departments it
is the intention to have academic, normal, and
evening classes so as to meet the wants of all as
far as possible. To those who wish to properly
school their children or, if they can spare the
time, improve their own education, this will,
we feel confident, be a fine opportunity.
	WE HAVE a recent letter, from a sister in one
of the small country settlements, which gives
some account of the place and also of the Re-
lief Society there, but we cannot publish it be-
cause there is no indication of the place from
whence it was sent except what can be gained
from an almost illegible post mark. The en-
closed article, headed, "A Word of Advice,"
etc., will probably appear in this or the next
issue. All communications should clearly show
the time and place where they were written.
	THE EXCURSION on the 6th inst., from this
city to Franklin, Idaho Ter., the northern ter-
minus of the Utah Northern Railroad, proved
to be a decided success. As near as we could
learn, there were over seven hundred passen-
gers. Much credit is due to Mr. J. N. Pike,
the manager, for the care and attention he ex-
ercised in behalf of the passengers, also to the
railway men for their carefulness and courtesy.
No accident occurred, although while the return
train was crossing the mountain some grass
caught fire and a lady, catching the impression
that the cars were on fire, jumped, with her
infant, from the train; fortunately it was not
going at full speed and a gallant brakesman,
who was close by, jumped off, caught her with
one hand to prevent her sliding down the bank
and with the other signalled the train to stop.
Fortunately all escaped injury. The passen-
gers seemed to enjoy the trip very much. An-
other similar excursion is planned to come off
on the 19th inst.


LAST MOMENT was marked by several most
destructive floods in this, and other coun-
tries. This city and Parowan have been
visited by floods, damaging and destroying
some hundreds of dollars worth of property.


About thirty feet of the C. P. R. R. track
twenty-eight miles east of Wells, Nev., was
washed out by the bursting of a cloud. A
water spout bursting near Carson City, Nev.,
caused great destruction of property, no
lives lost. Heavy rains and the bursting
of a cloud on the 24th ult. at Eureka, Nev.,
caused a violent flood which swept through
the town, killing about twenty-five persons
and destroying a large amount of property.
At Pittsburg, Penn., on the night of July
26th-7th a terrible storm swept over the
city and surrounding country. The water
was three or four feet deep in the city, the
Panhandle tunnel was flooded, and houses,
out-buildings, shops, cattle and about twenty
bridges were carried away before the raging
waters. The destruction of property which
was immense has not been estimated and
the loss of life, more terrible than all the
rest, is great, it being calculated that from
150 to 219 persons have been killed. The
same date brings news of a fierce rain and
hail storm on the borders of Moravia, in
Europe, many lives reported lost, a large
number of cattle were drowned, sixty-four
houses were demolished and the railways
badly damaged.


ANCIENT CITY IN NEW MEXICO.

	Capt. W. C. Manning, of Gen. Crook's
forces, has furnished an interesting descrip-
tion of an ancient city in New Mexico, in-
habited by a remnant of the race which cen-
turies ago was a flourishing tributary of
Montezuma's empire. The Captain has
visited ihe town, talked with their inhabi-
tants, and studied their customs. The lar-
gest settlement is in New Mexico, about
thirty miles south of the border line of Ari-
zona. A strong wall surrounds it, and with-
in are houses for about four thousand people,
though the population is only 1,800. The
language and some of the custom resemble
Chinese, though religious worship is formal
and pompous. The priests have heavily
embroidered robes, which have been used
for unnumbered years. Like the peruvi-
ans, the people keep a record of events by
tying knots in long cords. The Govern-
ment is administered by thirteen caciques,
or chiefs, six of whom are selected for life,
the others being elected from time to time.
There is a head chief and a vice head chief,
a war chief, &c. Everybody votes, morals
are good, and women are respected, a fact
which alone makes a wide gulf between the
dwellers in this ancient city and the horse-
men of the plains. The place was men-
tioned by a Spanish Jesuit in 1529, and is
probably as old as the Mexican empire,
which was in its heyday of glory and pros-
perity when invaded by Coriez.


A GOOD IDEA.—Woman ought not to be
less interested in good government than
men. Mothers ought to take as deep an in-
terest as fathers in securing laws that shall
lessen, to their children, the temptations
that surround them, leading to a life of im-
morality and crime. The woman who says
she doesn't care to vote virtually says she is
indifferent to the highest interest of her
children and the world around her. She
virtually says she doesn't care whether or
not a brothel is located on every street cor-
ner in Grand Rapids, or a dram shop in
every basement, or a gambling hell over
every store. It is high time that these
"womanly" women realized that their indif-
ference as to how the world is governed is
as great a crime in them as all admit it to
be in men.—Grand Rapids Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


BEARTIFUL IN OLD AGE.

How to be beautiful when old?
	I can tell you maiden fair—
Not by lotions, dyes and pigments,
	Not by washes for your hair,
While you're young be pure and gentle,
	Keep your passions well controlled,
Walk, and work, and do your duty,
	You'll be handsome when you're old.

Snow-white locks are fair as golden,
	Gray as lovely as the brown,
And the smile of age more pleasant
	Than a youthful beauty's frown.
'Tis the soul that shapes the features,
	Fires the eye, attunes the voice;
Sweet sixteen! be these your maxims,
	When you're sixty you'll rejoice.


IF I COULD KEEP HER SO.

Just a little baby, lying in my arms—
Would that I could keep you, with your baby charms:
Helpless, clinging fingers, downy, golden hair,
Where the sunshine lingers, caught from otherwhere;
Blue eyes asking questions, lips that cannot speak,
Roly-poly shoulders, dimple in your cheek;
Dainty little bosom in a world of woe,
Thus I fain would keep you, for I love you so.
					LOUISE C. MOULTON.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Bread Pancakes.—Nice breakfast pancakes can
be made of bread crumb soaked in milk over night, 
with eggs and a little soda.
	Lemon Cake— 1 cup of butter; three of white
sugar, stirred to a cream; add the yolks of five
eggs; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 cup sweet milk; the gra-
ted rind and juice of one lemon; 4 cups of flour and
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth.
	To Give a Fine Polish to Linen.— Use lukewarm
(not cold) water to break down the starch. When
it has been reduced to the required consistency by
boiling water, add a pinch of fine salt and stir sev-
eral times with a wax candle. This will make the 
iron run smoothly, and give a polish to the linen
that nothing else can impart.
	Hop Beer.— Healthy, easily made and will keep
six or eight months; three months after it is made
it is almost equal to ale. This receipt is for fifteen
gallons: Twelve ounces hops, six quarts molasses;
ten eggs; put the hops in a bag and boil them fif-
teen minutes in three pailfulls of water; put in the
molasses while hot, and pour immediately into a
strong ale cask which can be made perfectly air
tight and put in the remainder of the water cold;
let the mixture stand until cool, and then add the
eggs, well beaten. This beer will not ferment in
cold weather unless put in quite a warm place.
	Plain Talk to Girls.—Your every day toilet is
part of your character. A girl who looks like
"fury" or a sloven in the morning, is not to be
trusted, however finely she may look in the eve-
ning. No matter how humble your room may be,
there are eight things it should contain, viz:
	A mirror, wash-stand, soap, towel, comb, hair,
nail and tooth brushes.
	These are just as essential as your breakfast,
before which you should make good use of them.
Parents who fail to provide their children with such
appliances, not only make a great mistake, but com-
mit a sin of omission. Look tidy in the morning, 
and after the dinner work is over improve your toi-
let.
	Make it a rule of your daily life to "dress up"
for the afternoon. Your dress may not, [---] need
not be, anything better than calico, but with a rib-
bon or flower, or some bit of ornament, you can
have an air of self-respect and satisfaction that in-
variably comes with being well and neatly dressed. 
	A girl with fine sensibilities cannot help feeling 
embarrassed and awkward in a ragged, dirty dress, 
with her hair unkempt, if a neighbor comes in. 
	Moreover, your self-respect should demand the


decent appareling of your body. You should make
it a point to look as well as you can, even if you
know nobody will see you but yourself.
	Household Measures.—As all families are not
provided with scales and weights, referring to in-
gredients in general use by every housewife, the
following information may be useful.
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, one pound two ounces is one quart.
	Butter, when soft, one pound one ounce is one
quart.
	Loaf sugar, broken, one pound is one quart.
	White sugar, powdered, one pound one ounce is
one quart.
	Best brown sugar, one pound two ounces is one
quart.
	Eggs, average size, ten eggs are one pound.
	Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are half a pint,
eight are a gill, four half a gill, etc.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	MENTAL WORK:—Calm and steady men-
tal work is conducive to long life; but ner-
vous emotion, mental work that is a con-
stant urging, and, at the same time, is an
unhanging of the even tenor of the mind
eats away the brain faster than any mental
labor, no matter how hard, that is system-
atic. As men do not really die of heart
disease as often as supposed, but of apo-
plexy, or congestion of the lungs, so they
do not die of brain work but brain worry.
Scott died of it, Southey, Swift, Horace
Greeley, and probably Thackeray.	HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.—The three
requisites for babies are plenty of sleep,
plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as
true of babies as it is of grown children. If
an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o'clock at night until day-
light, the habit of early sleep will be formed
and the mother may have all her evenings
to herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a
long morning nap will naturally come about
dinner-time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake un-
til six o'clock. Perserverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both the child and parent. Some moth-
ers have a long season every morning and
every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Mor-
pheus enfolds them. With most children
this is entirely unnecessary. An infant can
be accustomed, by a few days' training, to
go to sleep itself for a morning's nap as well
as for the longer rest at night.—Ex.
	IS HARD WATER WHOLESOME.—There is
a popular prejudice that hard water is dan-
gerous to the health, and on that account you
are constantly warned by physicians to be-
ware of it, but in England one of the lead-
ing authorities on this subject, Dr. Letheby,
after devoting many years to an investiga-
tion into the properties of the water intro-
duced into English cities, and to a study of
the sanitary reports on the subject, comes
to the conclusion that moderately hard wa-
ter is safer and more healthful than soft wa-
ter. Hard water is not only clearer, colder,
more free from air, and consequently more
agreeable to the eye and to the taste than
soft water, but is less likely to absorb organic
substances, to sustain the life of zymotic or-
ganisms, or to exert solvent properties upon
salts of iron or upon leaden conducting
pipes. The lime salts exert a beneficial in-
fluence upon the animal economy and even
protect the system from dangerous outward
influences. Dr. Wilson of Edinburgh, has
also collected much valuable material on the
subject, and comes to the same conclusions
as Dr. Letheby. He takes the ground that
the human body requires for its nourish-
ment and support a supply of certain min-
eral salts, among which carbonate and phos-
phate of lime play an important part in
building up the compactness of the bones
and in other functions. We usually obtain
phosphate of lime in our animal and vege-
table food, but not from the water we drink.
Carbonate of lime, however, is not contained
in adequate quantity in our solid food, but
generally obtains in spring and well water.
	It has been incontestibly shown that in
mountainous districts, where the water is
more or less hard, the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. On the
other hand it is believed that in large cities
the mortality is inversely as the hardness of
water supplied to the inhabitants. A water
which contains about six grains of carbon-
ate of lime to the gallon is suitable for use
in all household purposes. As a drink and
for cooking food, such a water offers the nec-
essary carbonate of lime for the support of
life in the simplest, most natural and most
easily digested form, and is at the same
time more agreeable, fresh and sparkling.—
Selected.


ANECDOTE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
	
	In a certain case in court Mr. Lincoln had
for his legal opponent, a lawyer, whose ex-
cellent character, thorough knowledge of
law, and superior logic combined to exert a
controlling influence over the jury. This
lawyer (whom we call Judge Jones) had
made a speech, and a most able argument it
was. It was necessary in some way to dis-
sipate its impression. Mr. Lincoln, in re-
ply, opened his speech substantially as fol-
lows:
	"May it please the court and gentlemen
of the jury, we have just heard the learned
and masterly argument on the other side.
We know how thoroughly versed in the law
is Judge Jones, and how upright he is, and
we say, really Judge Jones cannot be mista-
ken in his positions. We also know how
true a gentleman Judge Jones is, how irre-
proachable are his manners and dress; and
I presume if I should say to you that Judge
Jones had put on his shirt wrong side fore-
most this morning, you would reply it is
impossible—and yet Judge Jones has put
on his shirt wrong side foremost this morn-
ing; you can look for yourselves, gentlemen;
so in this case, he has got things wrong end
foremost, and his whole argument is wrong
from beginning to end."
	Surely enough the irreproachable lawyer,
while pondering over his coming speech,
had dressed himself in the mistaken man-
ner indicated. After the laugh had subsid-
ed, consequent upon the detection, Mr. Lin-
coln analyzed the argument of the Judge,
and won his case.


﻿MISS Chandler decided, some years since,
to found a charity for the paralyzed. There
was then no such thing in London. She be-
gan by taking care of a poor paralyzed car-
penter. As fast as she could she assumed
charge of more paralytics, one by one. she
has now opened a hospital for paralysis and
epilepsy, in Queen’s square, London. It is
not excelled by any of the same sort in the
world. She has also established a convales-
cent hospital, which is doing great good.
She has, moreover, secured the endowment
of forty-eight permanent annuities for in-
curable paralytics and epileptics. She is
now collecting a large amount of money to
be applied the same way.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY SOMERVILLE.

	The "Personal Recollections," from early
lifeto old age, of Mary Somerville, is a
volume that deserves commendation for
what it says and for the way it is said. The
name of Mrs. Somerville was long ago made
familiar to many persons, as that of the au-
thor of several good books on unfamiliar
scientific subjects—her writings were "The
Mechanism of the Heavens," "The Connec-
tion of the Physical Sciences," "Physical
Geography," Molecular and Microscopic Sci-
ence," and a number of papers for Scientific
Societies. Yet, in this account of her life,
we find that during the ninety-two years of
her long and useful career, there was no time
that she was not busied as other women are,
with the duties of a daughter, wife and 
mother. She lived in the midst of unsym-
pathetic family ties, and yet she mastered
the very greatest mathematical theories,
along with such a knowledge of French and
Latin and Greek as served in the education
of her own children in turn. It was not
until a second marriage, to Mr. Somerville,
that she had any encouragement in her own
home, to the work in which she found her
chiefest delight, and then she pursued it
with industry and with such success that
the foremost men of science of her own
country and of Europe welcomed her to their
own number. Our American scientific and
literary men, Pierce, of the Coast Survey,
Bowditch, Longfellow and others who are
referred to in her reminiscences, were no
doubt the more ready and anxious to testify
their admiration and regard for her because
in her veins was the blood of Washington
himself.
	Her maiden name was Fairfax, and she
claimed a common ancestry with the Fair-
faxes from whose stock Washington also
sprang. But a better claim upon American
affection and interest in her life and works
is found in the fact that she, who was one of
the best exponents of what a woman could
do, was ardently earnest in her belief th a
all women were entitled to better opportu-
nities of education; her scientific library—
the collection owed its best value to the
tributes sent her by men of science in all
countries of their works—was bequeathed
by her to the College for Women, near Cam-
bridge, England. Yet this advocate of 
women's right of the highest education, was
herself steady to the last in performing every
duty as a helpmeet and wife, in making her
own house the scene of a delightful social
life, in which her husband was always the
host and she there as his wife and the moth-
er of three children. With this simple ad-
herence to the custom of her early Scotch 
training, she united almost a genius for mul-
tifarious work; for, besides her scientific
studies, she kept up her sketching and paint-
ing, was passionately fond of animals and
of flowers; she seems to have a regular suc-
cession of pets—dogs, birds and horses—
while even in her last days her delight in-
spired her daughters in their search for ferns
and wild flowers in their Italian homes. It
is not wonderful that with such occupation
and so many resources her life was as busy
as well spent and the tranquil story of rem-
iniscences is a perfect reflection of that well-
balanced mind, which enabled her to carry
on the nicest scientific research in the midst
of household cares and duties. To read it is
to gain a lesson in that most difficult, yet
necessary task of so adjusting the duties
and pleasures of life as always to be at the
best in both, and this was the secret alike of
the fame and of the longevity of Mrs. Som-
erville.
	Her life was not without its trials, and
such as would with ordinary minds have
put an end to anything like the success
which crowned her indefatigable industry.
She tells simply and sadly, but not complain-
ingly, of the small encouragement her love
of knowledge received until she was a
grown woman, and she speaks in earnest, 
but not querulous tones, of the family and
domestic incident and affections of her
long life. But the same perseverance which
enabled her to master scientific problems
when she was a girl, in spite of harsh par-
ents and severe rules, stood her in good
stead, when in her ninety-second year she
was still able to read books on the higher
algebra. "Sometimes," she says, "I find
them difficult; but my old obstinacy remains,
for if I do not succeed to-day, I attack them
again on the morrow." With such energy
at such an age, we can guess what force it 
must have had in earlier years; and yet we
can learn it not from what she says of her-
self, but only from the letters addressed to
her by the great men of science who were
her contemporaries, and who wrote to her as
their equal co-laborer. The whole tone of the
book gives even to those who know nothing
of Mrs. Somerville as a scientific writer a
delightful picture of a woman whose life,
passing as it did far beyond the ordinary
span, was spent in doing good to and for
others, in the enjoyment of the simplest
pleasures of domestic life, and in the high-
est possible intellectual exercise.—Philadel-
phia Ledger.


CIVILITY AND SINCERITY.

	Shall we dispense with the small courte-
sies of everyday life? We have heard men
argue that we should. For instance, they 
would say, "What is the use of asking a 
man when you meet him how his health is,
or to bid him good morning; these are un-
meaning forms, and are frequently hypocrit-
ical inquiries about which the person who
makes them cares nothing."
	We suppose to carry out such persons'
views, men and women should pass through 
life without paying the least attention to 
those courtesies, which, in so many instan-
ces, make life agreeable. Would this be 
right? We think not. It is true there is a
great deal of empty formality indulged in 
by people of the world in their salutations
and inquiries as to one another's condition;
but shall we, on this account, dispense with
them altogether? Would it be well because
some people pray with their lips, while
their hearts are far from the Lord, for all to 
dispense with prayer? Certainly not. It is
agreeable to the feelings of the most of peo-
ple to have their fellows take interest in
them and in their welfare; and this is right
and proper. How grateful it is to the feel-
ings of a child to have its parents take an
interest in it; and how much parents are 
pleased by the kind attentions and courte-
sies of their children! These are the mani-
festations of love, and without them, social
intercourse would be cold and hard, and, in
many instances, joyless. It does not cost
much to say "Good morning, Papa; how
are you?" or to address the same salutation
or inquiry to a mother; and they show that
the thoughts of the child are upon its par-
ents, and that it feels an interest in their
welfare.
	A true gentleman or lady is known by
his or her regard for the rights and feelings
of others; and it is no mark of a lady or
gentleman to be churlish, uncouth, or to be
indifferent in regard to others feelings and
to their welfare. On these points many 
young people need cultivation. Politeness
ought to be made a habit, and children can-
not tell of how much value courtesy or true
politeness may be to them in their future
lives. A man may have high ability; but
if he lack courtesy, or what some call civil-
ity, he will not succeed in making friends
and in accomplishing great results like a
man who possesses the quality, though his
talents may be of a lower order. It is said
of one eminent man, the Duke of Marlbor-
ough, that his charming manners often
changed an enemy into a friend, and that
to be denied a favor by him was more pleas-
ing than to receive one from another man.
These personal graces were of great aid to
him in his career. Politeness has often
made scoundrels successful, while the best
of men by their hardness and coldness, hace
repelled people who would like to be their
friends. But, because scoundrels have mis-
used this means of making friends, it does
not follow that we must all throw it aside,
or think when we see politeness that it is 
an evidence of a hypocrite. There are per-
sons who pride themselves on always saying
what they think. "I am no hypocrite," 
say they, "I tell people what I think of
them." It is frequently the case, in follow-
ing this course, they wound feelings and do
great injury.
	It is right and proper that in all our inter-
course with one another, we should be can-
did. Our deportment towards our friends
should agree with our feelings. If  a person
commits a wrong, a true friend will not
conceal his feelings respecting it; but will
tell the wrong doer plainly and kindly that
his conduct has been improper. But he
should be sure, to begin with, that he him-
self is right, and not speak in haste and
from anger. There is a kindness of manner
which one friend can use to another, even
when administering a rebuke or describing
faults, that will touch and soften the feelings,
and produce lasting effects. Every person
should cultivate this manner, call it by what
name you please, politeness, courtesy or
civility.—Juvenile Instructor.


HINT TO PARENTS.—A wise father and
pure mother, if they have secured the con-
fidence of their children—and this can only
be secured by intimacy—need not fear ruin.
Youthful indiscretion will never be pro-
longed into vice, for the least act on the part
of the offspring will be no sooner committed
than imparted to the parent, who will thus
be able to check youthful imprudence, and
interpose his experienced wisdom as barrier
between the commission of a single impro-
priety and the formation of a vicious habit.
Many a youth, who has been lost, might
have been saved if parents has cultivated
a greater intimacy with their children


PRINCESS Beatrice, Queen Victoria's
youngest daughter, a girl of seventeen, is
to be married to Adolf Ereidrich, the heir
apparent to the duke of Mecklenburg-
Strelitz. The father of the expectant bride-
groom rules over less than 1000 square miles 
of Territory, but as he owns over half the
land, in his dominions, rules almost abso-
lately, and has saved a large private fortune. 
He will bequeath a very pretty estate to his
son, should the latter survive him and no
revolution overthrow the present state of
things in Germany.


CALIFORNIA exempts editors from jury
duty, believing they have trials enough of
their own.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	COMPOSITION by a little boy—Subject, 
"The Horse." "The horse is a very useful
animal; it has four legs—one on each cor-
ner."
	FORTY Iowa schoolma'ams couldn't tell
what an abstract question was, but every
one of them understood the meaning of pop
the question.
	A YOUNG country girl of Bethel, Pennsyl-
vania, is making for herself a pretty little
fortune by raising poultry. Last year she
cleared $330, after paying all expenses, and
this year she expects to do better yet.
	WOMAN'S inferiority.—The young women
who graduated at Ann Arbor along with
the boys, though they behaved better, stud-
ied as well, and shared the honors, couldn't
smoke the class pipe.
	THAT "Work is Worship" has long been
an axiom with many, but here is an exem-
plification of it from an unexpected source
—India. The Hindoo Patriot and Indian
Journal says that the famine has produced
a reformer in the person of Pundit AJOODA
PRASID, who has succeeded in teaching the
Hindoos that work is worship. He is him-
self a Brahmin of high caste, and has given
practical example by working steadily with
a pickaxe and hoe.—R. N. Y.
	MANAGING A HORSE.—Never whip your
horse for becoming frightened at any object
by the roadside; for if he sees a stump, a
log or a heap of tan bark in the road, and
while he is eyeing it carefully and about to
pass it, you strike him with the whip, it is
the log, or the stump, or the tan bark that
is hurting him, in his way of reasoning and
the next time he will act more frightened.
Give him time to examine and smell of all
these objects, and use the war bridle to assist
you in bringing him carefully to these ob-
jects of fear. Bring all objects, if possible,
to his nose, and let him smell of them, and
then you can commence to gentle him with
them.	A LIVING POP-GUN.—There is a little
fish, the Chætodon, abounding in the East-
ern seas, from Ceylon to Japan, which se-
cures its prey by means of an instrument
like the blow-pipe used by mischievous
school-boys for projecting peas and other
means of torment. The nose of the fish is
a kind of beak, through which he has the
power of propelling a drop of water with
force enough to disable a fly, preparatory to
swallowing it. His aim is accurate, and he
rarely misses his object. The unsuspecting
fly sits on a spray of weed, a twig, or a tuft
of grass, near the water, pluming himself in
the warm rays of the sun. The fish cau-
tiously places himself under the fly, stealth-
ily projects his tube from the water, takes a
sure aim, and lets fly. Down drops the lit-
tle innocent to be swallowed by the fish.


WOMAN'S PROGRESS.—One of the most
remarkable features of the new Illinois law
concerning married women is the authoriza-
tion of civil suits between husband and 
wife. A married woman may do business
on her own account, with the same rights
and liabilities as if she were unmarried, ex-
cept as to partnership business, which she
cannot enter without her husband's consent,
unless he is idiotic or insane, has abandoned
or deserted her, or is confined in the peni-
tentiary.


PREFER diligence before idleness, unless
you esteem rust before brightness.—Plato.


DIVERSIONS.

	WEATHER report—A thunder clap.
	A PAIR of drawers—A span of truck 
horses.
	SURE to produce short crops—The barber's 
shears.
	WHEN does a chair dislike you? When
it can't bear you.
	WHY is an industrious woman like a
clock? Because her hands are incessantly
at work.
	IF it takes a man two days to make a
post-hole in broken ground, how long will it
take him to make a broken post whole?
	"ARE there any fools in this town?"
asked a stranger of a newsboy. "I don't
know," replied the boy; "are you lone-
some?"
	THE mayor of a Portugese city once enu-
merated, among the marks by which the
body of a drowned man might be identi-
fied, "A marked impediment in his speech."
	"HAVE you got a little Indian there?"
said the engineer, as we passed a young
squaw with a pappoose, standing at a depot
on the Pacific Railroad. "No," she an-
swered; half Injun, half Injuneer."
	"BRETHREN." said a young Quaker lately
married, "I have married a daughter of the
Lord!" "Ye have, eh!" ejaculated an
Irishman. "It'll be a long time before ye'll
see yer father-in-law."
	"WHAT are you catching my trout for?"
cried an irascible old gentleman to a young
man whom he found fishing on his place,
and who utterly silenced him by coolly say-
ing, "Who wants to catch your trout? I'm
only trying to drown this worm!"
	"THAT dog of yours flew at me this morn-
ing and bit me on the leg, and I notify you
that I intend to shoot it the first time I see 
it." "The dog is not mad." "Mad! I know
he's not mad. What has he got to be mad
about? It's I that am mad."
	SQUABBLES, and old bachelor, showed his
stockings, which he had just darned to a
maiden lady, who contemptuously remarked,
"Pretty good for a man darner"—Where-
upon Squabbles remarked, "And good
enough for a woman darn her."
	AMONG the gifts of a bride was a broom,
with the following:
		"This trifling gift accept of me;
		     Its use I would commend;
		In sunshine use the brushy part,
		     In storms, the other end."
	JOB'S patience wasn't a circumstance to
that of an American judge, who listened
silently for two days while a couple of 
wordy lawyers contended about the con-
struction of an Act of the Legislature, and
then ended the controversy by quietly re-
marking, "Gentlemen, the law is repealed."	"NOTHING," said an impatient husband,
"reminds me of Balaam and his ass as two
women stopping in church and obstructing
the way, to indulge in their everlasting
talk." "But you forget, my dear," returned
the wife, meekly, "that it was the angel
who stopped the way, and Balaam and his
ass who complained of it."
	THE other night a weak-eyed boy was sit-
ting in Ames' church, wholly forgetful of
his surroundings, and lost in beatific con-
templation of a certain young woman, touch-
ing whom he cherished violent designs, 
when suddenly a hand was laid upon his
shoulder, and a deep contralto voice thun-
dered in his ear: "Young man, you look as 
though you wanted to go to Jesus! Won't
you come to Jesus?" Whereupon he was
struck all of a heap, as it were, and stam-
mered: "I would—I want—that is, I should
like to go, you know, but not this evening,
thank you; I have an engagement."


A LITTLE Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?"


H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.

			DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a specialty. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.


				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies, 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club			-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club			-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16,
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling 
	price, $2 50	-	-	-	-	-	  	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions 
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all  names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially  Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.﻿

