VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1875.		No. 23


For the Exponent.
			FORGIVE ME.
	How often  we are reminded in our expe-
rience in life, of the necessity of thinking
twice before speaking once; and as often we
hear of troubles that are the result of hasty
replies, and a non-fulfillment of agreements
not properly reconsidered.  Excuse me
and Forgive Me this time, is the term gen-
erally used.  Just as though that was the
cure-all for the great wrong committed.
Please excuse me, and thank you, are very
pleasant English, but not very remunerative
when that is the only principle and interest
left you to pay the demand made for the er-
rors committed by another.  When people pay
as per telegram a dollar for every ten words,
they will say what they mean, and mean
what they say.  But they are not alone the
recipients of their own folly.  I'll Try has
often been the victim of their unpaid for—
unmeasured sentences, and having felt the
sting, can understand how others feel.

		"If you your lips
		Would keep from slips,
	Five things observe with care;
		Of whom you speak
		To whom you speak
	And how, and when, and where."

	Many at the last stages of their earthly
being try to mend in one short sentence,
"Forgive Me," the wrong that has been en-
dured a life time.  We may Forgive seventy
times seven but can we forget? The scar,
the impression is there indelibly stamped,
as a brilliant reminder of our folly. Oh!
how cruel the thought to leave a bleeding
heart to be healed within the grave! Jus-
tice says pay the debt, endure the pang
from the gash we ourselves have made, and
not leave the innocent our wrongs to bear;
better if possible to erase the impression
and obtain forgiveness.
						I'LL TRY.


THE HEAD OF THE  TABLE.

	In Queen Elizabeth's time the fashion
came into vogue of placing the principle
joints and pieces of meat at the head of the
table, above the salt, in order that the chief
guests might regale their eyes with the
promise of good cheer before them, and al-
so be conveniently served to the choicest
cuts. This custom involved the necessity of
carving the meats after they had reached
the table; therefore the ladies were invited
to sit at the head of the board, that they
might perform the services which before
had been delegated to the professional car-
ver. It was thus from no desire to com-
pliment the fair sex that woman, in the be-
gining, was promoted to the most honorable
place at the table. It was for the selfish
convenience of her lord, and not for her own
dignity, that the position was accorded to
her, and as, in medieval society, she minis-
tered to her guests by preparing dishes for
their enjoyment, often bearing them to the
table herself, so she now, in the capacity of
carver, continued in the rank of servitor.
But with the tact which is her distinguish-
ing characteristic she has gradually conver-
ted the carver's stool into a throne of state
and assumed the right to preside over the


company through an office which originally
authorized her only to help them to food.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE aggregate appropriations for the next
year, as made by the retiring Congress, are
$175,504,205.  About $7,000,000 less than
for 1874-5.
	MR. and Mrs. Dearborn Prescott of Graf-
ton, aged 70, died on the 16th of February,
of pneumonia, on the same bed, and within
eight minutes of the same time.
	THE NEW YORK city debt after the deduc-
tion of all the temporary debt, the debt in-
curred on the assessment of betterments,
and of the sinking fund, is still $115,000,
000, or 10 per cent. of the valuation of the
city.
	DURING 1874, 59 centenarians and nona-
genarians died in New Hampshire.  Of this
number twenty-six were men and thirty-
three were women.  The oldest was 106
years, the youngest 90.  Four were upwards
of 100, and the average was 93.2 years.
	AN EAST Colebrook man has in his house
an old fashioned, straight-backed rocking-
chair, which has been in daily family use
for 104 years, without the basket seat ever
having been renewed, although it has had
one new pair of rockers put on.  Furniture
isn't made in that kind of style now-a-
days.
	PERHAPS the strangest valentine for the
year was that received by a young lady in
Troy, N. Y., who on opening a box which
came by express, found in it a cow's heart
pierced with a golden arrow of elegantman-
ufacture, set with jewels, and estimated to
be worth $75.
	John W. Currier, of Alton, is the possess-
er of a sleigh 103 years old.  It has a back
as high as an old fashioned one-story house,
and is roomy enough to have taken all the
human passengers in the ark for a sleigh-
ride.  It is in good repair, Mr. Currier hav-
ing just had it well painted.
	THE water in the flume of a grist mill at
Franklin froze in a solid block at one time
last winter.  The flume is six feet high,
eight feet wide and fifty feet long. An at-
tempt to thaw it out by burning wood was
unsuccessful.  The ice on the Merrimac
at that place was reported four feet thick.
	A TRAIN of cars on the Illinois Central
railroad encountered a flock of wild turkeys,
the other day, and they began to fly directly
in front of the engine.  The conductor sta-
tioned himself on the pilot, and, when the
train caught up with the flock, he seized a
22-pound gobbler by the leg.  The bird was
so strong that the conductor had the utmost
difficulty in retaining his hold of the en-
gine, but he finally conquered. Half a doz-
en other turkeys were knocked dead by the
smoke-stack.


At a recent wedding in Ohio, the minis-
ter was about to salute the bride, when she
stayed him with, "No Mister; I've give up
them vanities now."


For the EXPONENT.
			FAREWELL.

	How many thoughts and feelings are asso-
ciated with this word!
	It is inexpressibly painful to me to be
obliged to bid Farewell even for a short
space of time, to a dear friend; there are so
many things to be feared, so much doubt
and uncertainty how, and when, and under
what circumstances we may meet again;
and, if going any distance, there is such a
variety of fears of dangers, or accidents by
the way: How many friends part gaily, fully
expecting to meet soon—and perhaps, years
elapse, or, more even than that, death it-
self may snatch one away and the separation
or meeting is indefinitely extended to an-
other sphere!  How careful friends should
be to part, though even for a very short
space of time, with good feelings, kind
wishes, and tender words, that there may be
no regrets—no recriminations—nothing to
embitter grief that could possibly have
been avoided, should we never meet again.
Therefore, we should never defer an opportu-
nity of doing a kind act, or speaking an
encouraging word to a friend, remembering,
how often we are called upon to part with
them suddenly.  I suppose it is this last
parting which makes us attach so much
solemnity to this simple word—we can
scarcely use it in common phrase without
feeling the significance it has in connection
with the final parting of friends.  Indeed,
I do not care to use "GOOD BY," for the
same reason, and would much prefer "good
morning" or "evening" in a usual way, they
do not seem to imply so much time, or even
so much intervening space.
	"Farewell," says the young man, to fa-
ther, mother, sister and brother as he goes
forth, perhaps for the first time to battle
with the world alone. O, the aching hearts
he leaves behind him, and the doubts and
fears as to his ultimate success, and how
seldom do all meet again in the same pleas-
ant and unbroken home circle! But the oc-
casions on which this word is used are too
many, varied, and complicated, for me to
even glance at them here.
	Friends part expecting to meet the
same as when they take each other by the
hand to go their separate ways, and per-
chance ere they meet again something
transpires to change the current of their
affections and they can never be to each
other what they were—what they have
been.
	But most agonizing of all, when we must
lay away our dear ones, and say the last
farewell to those fondly loved!  Happy for
us, if we have nothing to reproach ourselves
with—if we have been really and truly all to
them that nature and affection could require.
And we should reflect seriously and strive
so to live, that, whether our parting be for a
few days, months or years, or whether we
must part until the Resurrection Morn, we
can feel in our inmost hearts, we have been
faithful in the fulfillment of our duties and
obligations, and, also, in ministering cheer-
fully to the wants, wishes and happiness of
those we loved, whether relatives or friends.
								M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		MAY TIME.
Sweet May! Ah most welcome ever!
	But dearest of all times to-day;
For—somebody—bold and clever,
	Is going to call this way.
Bold, for he asked me something,
	I should not have thought he dared,
(I couldn't answer that's one thing,
	For indeed I was not prepared.)
Clever for smiling and saying,
	In such a delightful way,
Those dear words—Ah! how I am staying!
	I was thinking of dear, sunny May.
My feelings? Ah, you'd be above them.
	At least too much so to betray!
You were never a "first time in love" then—
	I mean deep in love—with sweet May.
Some like the grave winter for sporting,
	Some fancy the summer most gay;
But for sentiment, love, and for courting,
	We choose—that is I choose sweet May.
I said he should know by my greeting,
	If one, or divided our lot;
Now I have no idea of cheating,
	I couldn't seem glad I were not.
Of all apprehensions I'll rid him—
	He is here! now what shall I say?
O! Welcome, sweet welcome I'll bid him—
	Of course I mean, welcome sweet May.
								LULA.


R. S. REPORTS.
		FARMINGTON, March 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking in quite time that
some one of the sisters should write and let
the readers of our valued EXPONENT know
how we are getting along. We meet every
two weeks; although our business operations
are small, we try to encourage one another
in the good work in which we are engaged.
I feel as one of my sisters has said that we
need a great deal of charity one toward an-
other, we are all so differently constituted;
I feel that the strong must bear the infirmi-
ties of the weak, and try to encourage them
by mild and gentle words, and by perform-
ing little acts of kindness towards them.
Our Young Ladies' Association is getting
along well under the good management of
their president, Sister Lucy Clark. I feel
thankful that we have the privilege of be-
ing organized into Societies and Associa-
tions, for they are calculated to be a great
benefit to us if we enter into them with
the right spirit. I pray God our Heavenly
Father that His blessing may rest upon all
that are striving to do His will and keep
His commandments. I have been a con
stant reader of the EXPONENT from the
first, and am happy to say that I find it
steadily improving; I should be lost with-
out it. If you find this worthy of a place
in the EXPONENT please insert it.
					S. J. HOLMES,
			President Relief Society.
		EPHRAIM, SANPETE CO., April 4th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ephraim Branch of the Relief Socie-
ty held their Yearly Meeting on Thursday,
April 1st, 1875, being six years since our or-
ganization which was on the 1st of April,
1869, by Bishop Canute Petersen. Presi-
dent Mrs. S. A. Petersen, thanked the sis-
ters for their willingness to respond to the
calls made upon them. The yearly report
showed that the sisters had donated seven
hundred and ten dollars and fifty-three
cents. Three hundred of which, having
been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent
to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating
from the old country. The poor at home
have been assisted according to their needs.
[Column 2]
	The donations of the sisters are seldom in
money, that being a very scarce commodity
here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese,
which are sold to the best advantage, also
remnants and scraps either cotton or woolen,
which the sisters make up into Quilts;
some are sold, some loaned to the poor dur-
ing the winter, four were made for the
brethren who went to St. George, to work
on the Temple. The amount of cheese made
was 766lbs., 80lbs. of which were sent to the
Temple at St. George. The sisters are uni-
ted. We are blessed in having a good and
wise President, Sister S. A. Petersen. We
wish to express our indignation and thor-
ough contempt for the man (?) who commit-
ted such an outrage on our beloved Presi
dent. Probably he was not shrewd enough
to see it was only making President Young
doubly dear to us. It is but another bond
of union between Brother Brigham and the
Saints. A crown of glory for the gray hairs
of our Prophet. Whom may God bless
forever.
		With respect, your sister,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE CO., April 13th.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President M. A. Hunter, I
send a report of our Branch of the Relief
Society.
	Secretary's report for the year ending
April 1st, 1875:
	To St. George Temple,......$ 40 00
	To Emigration Fund,.........   91 18
	To the Poor,.......................   66 42
						  $197 60
	Balance in Treasury,.........    54 49
				Total,.........$252 09
	None have been neglected who have been
in need of the necessaries or comforts of
life.
	At our last meeting there were present
by invitation, Bishops Rowberry and W. G.
Young also Elder Wm. Leem our excellent
Sunday School Superintendent. Bro. Young
said he felt like attending R. S. meetings[-]
he did not believe that women were only to
be looked at. Said the sisters were doing
what President Young had failed to do, in
putting down round dancing. That the
Retrenchment Society was helping. He
felt the sisters would be a blessing in help-
ing the brethren to bring about a reforma-
tion in drunkenness. Spoke of the store
Sister Snow and others intended to estab-
lish in S. L. City for the sale of home manu-
factured straw and millinery goods.
	Bro. Lee commended the excellent order
in which our secretary, Mary Cook, kept her
books. Advised the reading of good books.
	Bishop Rowberry spoke very encourag-
ingly and gave the sisters excellent advice.
Said he always felt to sustain the Society,
was glad the young ladies were willing to
assist the brethren in putting down round
dances, to say the least the immense strain
on the system was very injurious to the
delicate structure of the female form, Ad-
vised us to do as little harm and all the good
we could.
	The members of the Society manifest an
excellent feeling.
					CORRESPONDENT.
	At the Semi-Monthly meeting of the Sen-
ior and the Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association, held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 17th, 1874, Counsel-
or Mrs. Zina D. Young presided; President
[Column 3]
Mrs. M. I Horne being absent on a visit in-
to the country.
	After the regular exercises and the read-
ing of the minutes by the different secreta-
ries from the various wards, Mrs. Zina D.
Young addressed the congregation upon
HOME INDUSTRIES, the course necessary to
be pursued in order to sustain them, encour-
aged all to be energetic in these matters.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow followed, speak-
ing upon punctuality; the cultivation and
practice of it; gave a brief sketch of the adja-
cent settlements,the pleasure she felt in the
progress they were making,called the atten-
of those present to her bonnet, which
was made and presented to her by the la-
dies in Ogden, and of which she felt truly
proud: spoke in regard to sustaining do-
mestic productions, remarked that had it
not been for the increase of faith, union, hu-
mility, zeal and energy which had been the
result of these organizations it would have
been more difficult to lead out in the direc-
tion now indicated by President Young.
Counselor E. Howard bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, especially
the order of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.
	Counselors E. P. Snow and Zina D. Young,
and Mrs. E. S. Barney each spoke on the
measires now being taken to sustain the
HOME INDUSTRIES and showed some speci-
mens of flowers collars stockings etc. of
home work.
	After the close of the meeting, some la-
dies were introduced, who were strangers
here, travelers on their way home from
California; they manifested a warm interest
in the movements of the people here and
wished them success.


A SYNOPSIS

OF REMARKS, BY SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW,
	TO THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT
	ASSOCIATION OF THE 16th WARD—

	I am pleased to see so many present. We
have a mission to perform or we should not
be here. Are we trying to perform that
mission? We do not, any of us, know what
we can accomplish until we are tried, what
powers we possess until they are called in-
to requisition. I say to all my sisters, strive
to be great and mighty in doing the work
that God has given you. When I first en-
tered this church I made up my mind I
would never refuse to do any thing
that I should be called upon to do; and
at the organization of your society there
was one young woman who made the same
resolution. I asked her the other day if she
had kept her promise, and she answered
yes. Well, that young woman shall be blest
—the spirit of darkness shall not enter her
heart, she will be blest to do a good work in
the Kingdom of our God. Young sisters be
punctual in attending your meetings; moth-
ers help your daughters to come to meeting.
I know these meetings were organized by
the power of the Holy Ghost through Presi-
dent Young! The key will soon be turned,
and angels will again visit the earth. I
want to tell my young sisters a few things
that they can do in a united capacity; do
you know that you possess the power to in-
fluence the young men for evil or for good?
Do not depend upon your parents nor your
future husbands for salvation; there are few
young men now-a-days who will prove sav-
iors, you will have to go in groups, to the few
who are worthy. Joseph Smith said (and
he knew by revelation) that there were
more good women than men on earth; that
proves the wisdom of plurality. Girls, mar-
ry good, noble men. I don't care if they are


old men if they are men of God. It has
been said that our sons and daughters should
be prophets and prophetesses. Where is the
young lady or gentleman who dare to rise
up and prophesy in the name of God? I of-
ten think, as a people of God we are not
half so wide a-wake to our work as the spir-
its of darkness are to the work of opposing.
I am ashamed of the people of God in many
instances. It requires a firm will and a
strong determination to do right, to enter
the gate of Heaven.  Paul said the spirit
was made subject to vanity.  Do you realize
you have a work to do to help purify Zion,
and that it will take union to accomplish it,
and to roll on the Kingdom of God? Be
firm in your religious duties, seek after
truth, and don't mind making yourself look
conspicuous. The speaker then related a
vision seen by Bro. Solomon Angel of St.
George, given to him before President
Young started home from the south. She
continued, seek unto the Lord for wisdom;
there are prophets and prophetesses in our
midst, will the spirit not impart the same to
the young as to the old now as in the early rise
of the church? When I first joined this church
I could tell a sister or a brother when ever I
met one, but how is it now? I cannot tell
whether it is a brother, sister, Gentile, Jew,
or what ever. I should like to see the time
again when I could tell a sister when I see
her. Instead of our being a peculiar people,
we are drifting after the world. God's peo-
ple were a peculiar people.  I want to know
how many young ladies have stamina enough
to comply with the request I am going to
make. As Eve led out in the evil, why
should she not be the first in doing good"
President Young has forbidden his family
to indulge in round dances; now if you
make resolutions, adhere to them.  I think
you are trying to do right. I don't want
one person to vote unless she has stami-
na to keep sacred ther promise. These
round dances were originated by the adver-
sary to lead to evil. A vote was then called
for all who would not participate in those
dances to manifest it by the uplifted hand.
She then said God bless you who have voted!
And he will bless you. We have hundreds
of young ladies who have taken this vote.
We are living in the last dispensation, the
wheels of time are rolling on, the nations of
the earth are ready to break up.  Mothers
in Israel, I bless you. I bless my young
sisters. I say to you mothers throw an in-
fluence around your sons and daughters for
good.  It fills my heart with joy to meet
with you, and I would enjoin upon you to
meet together often—it is of the greatest 
importance. I am greatly interested in the
young people. The Bible says, seek first
the Kingdom of God—how many of us
have made it our first duty?  I will leave it
for each one to answer for herself.  Wake
up my sisters, myself as well, and let us be
Saints in very deed. God bless you, Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Absent-Mindedness.  A gentleman called
on a lady and was told by the servant she
was not at home.  As he turned to go out
he caught a glimpse of her head in a mirror
through a half open door.  An hour after-
wards he called on another friend and found
the lady there; "I have just been to your
house" said he "but had not the pleasure of
seeing you."—"Indeed I'm sorry; but I
went out in great haste on business." "In
such haste I presume that you left your head
behind you, for I saw it in the glass."—
"Did you? It is very possible I am so absent-
minded."


COMMITTEE on ways and means—Wives.


FLOWERS.

	EVERY good deed that we do is not only
a present pleasure, but a prop for the future.
	BEST of all is it to preserve everything
in a pure, still heart, and let there be for
every pulse a thanksgiving, and for every
breath a song.
	GENEROSITY during life is a very different
thing from generosity in the hour of death;
the one proceeds from liberality and benev-
olence, the other from pride or fear.
	IT would not be easy, even for an unbe-
liever, to find a better translation of the
rule of virtue from the abstract into the
concrete, than to endeavor so to live that
Christ would apporve our life.—John Stu-
art Mill.
	SCIENTIFIC thought remains in the high-
er regions of society, among the privileged
souls which have acquired some intellectual
culture, while religion embraces life and
death, bears in itself the consolation of in-
numerable griefs, the encouragement of
countless hopes.—Emilio Gastelar.
	THERE'S no music in a "rest," that I
know of, but there's the making of music in
it.  And people are always missing that
part of the life melody, always talking of
perseverance, and courage, and fortitude;
but patience is the finest and worthiest part
of fortitude, and the rarest, too.—Ruskin.
	MOST people need all the strength which
a high-toned public opinion can give to
them to keep them true to their conscience
and their God; and that opinion is partly
formed by what we do and what we are.
Strive earnestly, then, to order your life
with a wise simplicity.  Be frugal in the
shows and generous in the substances of life.
Set the example, so greatly needed, of
wholesome moderation. Show that you
care for character above all else.


KEEPING THE TOUNGE.

	Keep it from unkindness. Words are
sometimes wounds.  Not very deep wounds
always, and yet they irritate.  Speech is un-
kind sometimes when there is no unkind-
ness in the heart; so much the worse that
needless wounds are inflicted; so much the
worse that unintentionally pain is caused.
	Keep it from falsehood.  It is so easy to
give a false coloring, to so make a state-
ment that it may convey a meaning differ-
ent from the truth while yet there is an ap-
pearance, of truth, that we need to be on
our guard.  There are very many who would
shrink from telling a lie, who yet suffer
themselves in such inaccurate or exaggerated
one-sided statements that they really come
under the condemnation of those whose,
"lying lips are an abomination to the Lord."
	Keep it from slander.  The good reputa-
tion of others should be dear to us. Sin 
should not be suffered to go unrebuked;
but it should be in accordance with the
Scripture method: "Go and tell him his
fault twixt thee and him alone."  And it
should be borne in mind that what is too of-
ten considered as merely harmless gossip
runs dangerously near, if it does not pass,
the confines of slander. A reputation is too
sacred to be made a plaything of, even if
intent be not malicious.


﻿ “So you take lessons in drawing, Sallie?”
"Yes, and the teacher says I am an apt pu-
pil, as I draw more inferences, insinuations,
admirers and allowance than any other girl
in the academy.”


For the EXPONENT.
		STRONG MINDED WOMEN.

	Strong minded women!  I always pictured
a strong minded woman as one who rules
her husband, her household, and as far as
possible every one around her. One that is
smart and knows it, and acting upon her
ruling proclivities, makes herself generally
disagreeable.  To me it is always a painful
sight to see a woman stepping into a man's
place as head of the family, oftentimes treat-
ing her husband as though he were a child,
turning innocent words into ridicule, smil-
ing and winking at her own smrrtness, or
chiding him for some slight carelessness
that really was no harm.  I have wondered,
if the feelings of the husband were sensi-
tive enough to be wounded, or if blunted
by continual repititions of the same charac-
ter?
	Man is ahead of us, God has placed him
there, and we need not fight against it.  If
you have husbands living their religion, and
magnifying the Priesthood, you will do well
indeed if you keep up with them.  Let
them lead, and you follow. Let them dic-
tate and you obey.  Then you will be happy
and in your proper place.
	I think a great deal of the strong minded
principles of the Gentiles are creeping
in among us.  I believe in women being in-
tellectual, cultivated, and refined, for that is
right.  If she can work at any work as well
as a man, let her receive the same wages,
for that is just. But to play the lord, to be
masculine in thought and manner, is not be-
coming for a sister in the Gospel.  We have
enough honor, enough glory, all that we de-
sire, if we are only faithful to the Gospel,
and honor, love and obey our husbands.
			EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George.


SUMMER FRUITS.

	A very mistaken idea has found lodge-
ment in the minds of many, otherwise sen-
sible people, to wit, that summer com-
plaints, the generic term under which the
disorders peculiar to the season are known,
are caused mainly by the use of fruit, and
the wise and safe plan is to prohibit its use
altogether.
	This method, which neglects to take ad-
vantage of one of the most beneficent pro-
visions of man's use, comfort and well-being,
is detrimental not only to enjoyment but to
permanent health.  The term "antiscorbu-
tic" expresses the value of fruits as food,
and the estimation in which they are held
by those who understand their relation to 
human wants.
	When fruit does harm, it is because it is
eaten at improper times, in improper quan-
tities, or before it is ripe and fit for the
human stomach. Fruit ought not to be eat-
en between meals any more than any other
food.
	The principle difficulty with us is that we
do not eat enough of fruit; that we kill its
finer qualities with sugar; that we drown
them in cream.  We need the medical ac-
tion of the pure fruit acids in our systems.
We need the cooling, corrective influence,
and should accept it as one of the best gifts
of Providence.—"Utah Pomologist."


AN enterprising lady, Mrs. E. Screven, of
Liberty, Ga., planted some young pear trees
three years ago, and from their fruit this
year shipped to Savannah fifteen barrels of 
pound pears, retailing at five cents each.
She has also successfully cultivated many
thousands of tea-plants.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNLLIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City. Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			PERSONAL.
	Attorney Gen. Williams tendered to the
President the resignation of his office Apr.
22d to take effect on the 15th of May;rumor
says Sec. Briston will be elected in his
place........John Harper Senior member of
Harper Bros. New York city died on the
evening of Apr. 22d, in his 79th year......
The report that the President requested
Sec. Delano to resign is said to be false......
Hugh Smith Carpenter, D. D. of San Fran-
cisco has been elected pastor of the Presby-
terian church at Washington D. C.......Au-
ditor Clinton of New Orleans has been sus-
pended from office during his trial......Mrs.
Rosetta E. Buckingham an able advocate
of woman's suffrage died March 23rd. aged
42, at South Glastonburg Conn.........Miss
Grace Anna Lewis of Penn. has been lect-
uring in Boston on Natural History......Rev.
Robert Colyer's popularity in Boston is
still increasing......Patrick O'Shea who mur-
dered his wife in March 1874 was hanged
in the jail-yard in St. Louis on the 9th. of
April.......E. S. Harney has tendered his
resignation as United States Marshal for
Washington Territory......Charles Tappan
the last surviving member of the anti-slav-
ery society died in Washington D. C. Apr.
9th, aged 70.....Vice President Wilson has
changed his mind with regard to going to
Europe.
			FOREIGN.
	Parliament in Italy has directed that capi-
tal punishments shall be inflicted within
prison walls......Single letter postage in
Mexico is 25cts.......Pius the Ninth, since
occupying the papal chair has created nine-
ty-nine cardinals—the total number at pres-
ent is fifty-seven......Cardinal Manning of
London is seriously ill with nervous pros-
tration......The British House of Commons
on the evening of the 19th. of Apr. dis-
cussed the Belgium question......The Rus-
sian Diet has passed the bill abrogating the
causes of the constitution which allow inter-
ference in affairs pertaining to religion....Mr.
Robert H. Elliot has published a pamphlet on
the condition of Hindostan as regards the 
British rule......John Jay U. S. Minister to
Austria has sailed for the United States......
Capt. Coyer, a gentleman and a distinguished
officer is said to be the greatest pianist in
Paris......The Emperor of Brazil proposes to
abdicate in favor of his eldest daughter the
Countess d'Eu.
			GENERAL.
	The Woman's Medical College of the
New York Infirmary held its commence-
ment exercises at Union League Hall the
first week in April.....A bill passed the
house at Springfield Ill. recently allowing
women to become notaries public........In
the Michigan University the report of the
whole number of students is 1,191. The
University Library contains 22,500 volumes
......The National Woman's Suffrage Asscia-
tion will hold their annual meeting in
Union League Hall New York May 11th,
1875.....At the centennial celebration of the
battle of  Lexington the churches in Boston,
Concord and Lexington were crowded.
Lanterns were hung out on the belfry by
the son of the old sexton who gave the
same signal to Paul Revere in 1775.....Mt.
Holyoke Female Seminary is going to have
a new building at a cost of $50,000......At
the California State University, there are
thirty-nine young women studying.........
The proceeds of the sale of Sumner's art
legacy is to be used for the purchase of
statues and bass-reliefs for Boston Art Muse-

[Column 2]
um......The Boston school-girls beat the stu-
dents of Harvard Universiny at a spelling
match in the Boston Music Hall......Of the
221,042 teachers in this country 127,731 are
women......At South Bend, Ind., a fire on
the 10th of Apr. burned a block of frame
buildings total loss $75,000, insurance 20,
000......In the New England and Middle
States, Apr. 13th, snow fell in some places
to the depth of nine inches......One thou-
sand emigrants went West on the 9th, on a
special train for California......Notice of ac-
tion has been given in the new six million
suit against Wm. M. Tweed......A new
stage line has been started between Walla
Walla and Wallula Oregon......Mrs. Mattie
Gaylord of Boston Mass. has recently been
lecturing in Oregon she is a lecturer of
some note both in England and the United
States.....The steamers to and from San
Francisco and Coos Bay will touch at Cres-
cent City hereafter until the first of Nov.


[Column 1]
	CULTURE AND REFINEMENT.

	"The means that heaven yields must be embraced
	And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
	And we will not, heaven's offers we refuse

	What wonderful powers and capacities for
unlimited improvement our Creator has en-
dowed us with, and how little are they under-
stood or appreciated by the masses of mankind!
Children are born into the world, and develop
physically into men and women, receive per-
haps, an ordinary education, occupy a common
sphere in every day life, or society; and if they
so live as not to be guilty of any overt act
against the laws of men, and leave their name
upon the earth, fancy they have filled the mea-
sure of their creation. But is this the only
purpose for which we have been created in the
image of our Maker? Can we expect to receive
an exaltation with glorified beings, without
making any exertion for our own improvement?
We receive heavenly gifts and powers, as ele-
ments in our individual natures; they are sus-
ceptible of being cultivated indefinably. Were
they given us to be wasted or hidden away?
The Savior in his parable of the talents put to
usury, has clearly demonstrated this fact to all
intelligent beings; and yet many thousands
go on from day to day, in an idle search for
pleasure, or the gratification of material wants,
when above and around are the resources for
development in art, science and literature,
which require the agency of beings possessing
the highest and deepest cultivation.
	We profess to believe God has a definite pur-
pose to accomplish by calling us into existence;
but do our actions truly manifest a reverence
for the principles which we have espoused?
Can we go on wasting our energies, neglecting
our opportunities, and thoughtlessly trifling
with the advantages given us for strengthen-
ing, purifying and elevating our characters,

[Column 2]
and not be held accountable? We believe in
all things upon natural principles; then we
have a vast work before us to accomplish, and
we should be diligent and untiring in our ef-
forts to live purer, better and more exemplary
lives.
	It cannot be done without thoughtful care
and study, we cannot borrow it all from books,
or copy it from others. But we must ourselves,
train every faculty we possess more carefully,
and seek more watchfully to guard against evil
influences and tendencies, than we should
watch the growth and cultivation of the most
delicate and sensitive plant.
	The tastes, affections, sentiments, feelings and
passions, every gift and quality that is inherent
in our characters, are susceptible of an unlimit-
ed development and refinement; but it must
be a life-work; it can not be done in a day or
an hour, or by adopting any system or code of
etiquette, morals or manners. And yet, it is
by and through these means, the world is apt
to judge those enriching and ennobling charac-
teristics, which stamp perceptibly the carer of
one possessing the truest and widest enlarge-
ment of moral, mental and spiritual develop-
ment.
	If we but carefully try each time we do any-
thing to do our best, and pray for the guidance
of the Holy Spirit every day and hour, we shall
not fail in our attempts to acquit ourselves
honorably and creditably, in whatever position
we occupy. We are laying the foundation of a
future, which will be illimitable. And in view
of this, ought we not to awaken to an instant
and vivid consideration of the significance of
the object of our attainment?
	Shall we shrink from any responsibility im-
posed upon us, by the age and time in which
we live? Not by any one individual can the
purposes of God be accomplished; it is the
problem of humanity, and in our own hearts
is the temple where we must commence; call-
ing into exercise every faculty of our higher
natures; and if each one interested in the work
of progression, would by the interchange of
ideas, sentiments and sympathies unfold their
highest aspirations, open their deepest living
fountains, and strengthen each other in the
great, grand and mighty work, of refining and
perfecting, they would thereby secure the
greatest happiness, and erect for themselves
and those who shall follow in their footsteps,
the loftiest standards for emulation.
	An innate and true refinement of individual
character, will be essential in fitting us to
mingle and participate in the society of exalt-
ed beings; and those who anticipate being the
recipients of a glorious reward for their sacri-
fices here, and yet waste the time, means and
opportunities, at their free disposal, with no
fixed pupose in view, but to enjoy the luxu-
ries of living, to the fullest extent, will assur-
edly meet with disappointment; and in the
final judgment, the talents they have hidden
away, will be called for and given to those who
have been the most faithful in the cultivation
of the infinite attributes of the soul.
					E. B. Wells B. B.


SCHOOL EXAMINATION

	An examination of some of the advanced
classes in Miss Mary E. Cook's school, at the
close of the last quarter, April 16th, was very
entertaining, and commendatory of the efforts
and abilities of both teacher and scholars.
	The reviewing of a class in American History
was particularly interesting.  Apparently every
scholar in the class excelled in promptly and
correctly answering a long list of questions on
the laws and constitution of the United States;


and in giving names and dates of celebrated
persons and memorable events. The names of
the most praiseworthy, however, are as follows:
Emeline Wells, Amy Colkins, Ida Felt, Hor-
tense Lange, Anna Lynch, Isabella Pugsley,
Wealthy Richards, George Taylor, Anna Wells,
Nettie Wells, Luella Miles, Julia Stringham,
Ida Young, Elizabeth Best, Georgia Spencer,
Messrs W. Van Cott and A. Gabbott, although
not present at the examination, having left
school a few weeks previous, formerly belonged
to the class, and came in after the close of the
review, to show, by the ready manner in which
they could repeat the "Constitution," and an-
swer all questions that could be propounded
upon it, that their interest in the study had
not collapsed. 
	Select readings and recitations by younger
pupils, contributed much to the pleasantness
of the occasion; which was also enlivened by
sweet music, vocal and instrumental, from
some of the young ladies of the school.
	President D. H. Wells, Elder J. E. Taylor
and a few lady friends were present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TAILORING ESABLISHMENT

	Realizing the importance of founding and
carrying out Home Industries, we (the ladies of
the Fourteenth Ward) have commenced a Co-
operative Tailoring Establishment in our Re-
lief Society Building. Our design is to be able
to fill orders for men and boys' clothing, on
short notice and at low prices. We also pur-
pose keeping on hand ready-made suits for
children. Those who are interested and de-
sirous of assisting in the great cause of Zion's
children becoming self-sustaining are respect-
fully invited to call or send their orders, as we
are confident our work will give satisfaction.
Mrs. S. Paxman, Superintendent, is an expe-
rienced and efficient tailoress.
	E. R. Snow,			S. H Wilkinson,
	M. I. Horne,			E. S. Taylor,
	W. East,				J. C. Richardson,
and the members of the 14th Ward Relief So-
ciety.


[Column 1]
			﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	TWO SUICIDES have been committed in this
city recently, by a man named William Geehr
and a young girl named Jane Powell.
	HIGH WATER in the vicinity of Ogden, has
been threatening bridges and other near erec-
tions, with danger at least, if not destruction.
	THE OFFICE of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is re-
moved to the building known as Jos. A. Young's
office, corner of South Temple and First East
Streets, south of the Eagle gate.
	A LADY by the name of Jacobs, recently
died suddenly of heart disease, in this city.
She was a Jewess, and the funeral services
were conducted in accordance with the custom
of her people.
	TWO OF Salt Lake's prominent business men,
C. R. Barrett and W. C. Hendrie, who have
been enjoying for a short time the delightful
climate and exhilarating sea-breezes of the
Gold City of the West, lately returned
home.
	ON THE 14th inst, a free excursion to Lake
Point for the aged poor of the city is contem-
plated. The officers of the Utah Western Rail-
road have kindly proffered the use of cars for
the company free of charge, a band of music
will be in attendance and the committee will,
if possible, engage the steamer "City of Cor-
inne," that the party may have the luxury of a
short sail upon the Lake. Messrs C. R. Sav-
[Column 2]
age, Bishop Hunter and George Goddard form
the Committeee of arrangements.
	SOME OF our friends are deserving of thanks
for their thoughtfulness and promptitude in
already bringing and sending in subscriptions
for the fourth volume of the EXPONENT. We
would most respectfully remind others that one
issue after the present will complete the third
volume, and that subscriptions should be for-
warded as early as possible.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the damage done by
high waters, no trains arrived from the East
for several days; hence, no mail matter was re-
ceived. On the evening of the 22nd, the first
mall since the 14th, was brought in. Trains of
empty cars have been sent east from Ogden to
bring mails and passengers which have ac-
cumulated on the line.
	SATURDAY EVENING, April 24th, a full and
appreciative audience composed the compli-
mentary benefit to Mr. John T. Caine. "The
Serious Family" was fairly rendered. Mr.
Caine acknowledged the compliment paid him
by a short and appropriate speech. The per-
formance contained a most humorous and in-
teresting variety, and reffects particular credit
upon the management. Laura Honey Steven-
son the talented vocalist is in town.
	THE ZETA GAMMA Society gave an enter-
tainment to a select company of friends on the
evening of the 23rd. of April. The members
of the society acquitted themselves creditably
in essays, select readings and declamations,
also in rendering a scene from "Henry the 
Fourth."  They presented Dr. Park with pho-
tographs of all the members, mounted on a
card, nicely finished and elegantly framed, as a
token of their appreciation of the interest he
had taken in their efforts for improvement.
The Dr. acknowledged the gift by a few choice
and appropriate remarks. Gov. Axtell and
Judge Sutherland, by request of the President,
each addressed the society, expressing their
sincere pleasure in witnessing such movements
as were calculated to be truly beneficial to the
minds and morals of the youth. The Governor
advanced some very excellent ideas upon hon-
esty, individuality and originality.
	MRS. MARGARET Mitchell in speaking before
the Annual Meeting of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, April 22nd, expressed her grati-
tude to God in being permitted to meet with
her sisters again after her long separation from
them. She said she fully realized the power of
God which had sustained and protected her
during her absence, while journeying, in cross-
ing and re-crossing the ocean with so many
little children. She had often met with the
island sisters in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty; they were much more interested than the
sisters here who have all the advantages of
civilization, and of associating with those who
have the fulness of the priesthood. She would
like to see the sisters here manifest as much
zeal as those poor heathens, they enjoyed a full
flow of the Holy Spirit; yet they have no true
idea as yet of the object of their organization.
She felt while among them, how much she
might have accomplished if she had been gifted
with their language, then she would have truly
been what she desired, a missionary indeed.
The Hawaiian sisters walk for miles to these
meetings, to gather in groups and sit upon the
grass until all have arrived when they meet in
some house. They have also a general meet-
ing, and they enjoy themselves in talking about
Zion and how they would rejoice to come here.
She had often thought if they were here and
saw how slothful we were, they would hardly
realize they were in Zion. She had become
[Column 3]
much attached to them, for their kindness and
amiability, and for their integrity to the prin-
ciples of salvation.


LITTLE LETTERS.
	FROM HENRY'S FORK, BRIDGER,
						WYOMING.
DEAR—:
	I am going to tell you something about
the country here. Last fall we had to re-
move from our home on Smith's Fork to this
place, to get range for our cattle. I do not
like the place here so well as I did on
Smith's Fork. We live a long way from
neighbors, and there are big pine trees all
around us.  We have all the gum we want
to chew and father says if we live here an-
other winter we will all have to get new
teeth.  We do not live in a very nice house,
but it is snug and warm in winter, and the
pine grove which surrounds it is green and
beautiful the whole year round.  It is a
pleasant portion of country, and I think I
would be perfectly satisfied if we had meet-
ings, Sunday Schools, and day schools. Per-
haps it will not be long before we have them
all, as a number of families are settling here.
They have schools in all the other settle-
ments now.
	There are several men living about here
who have married squaws and they seem
to make first-rate housekeepers.  These men
appear to love their wives and children
as much as other men do. Uncle Jack
Robbinson has a squaw for a wife, with
whom he has lived for twenty years. She
is pleasant and agreeable in her manners
and keeps her house very neat.  They have
a daughter who married a white man, and
she keeps a very nice house indeed.  Every
one likes her, and her children are as white,
almost as we are.  We have a little half-
breed girl living with us and she is quite
pretty and real good.  In the settlements
where schools are kept, the little half-breeds
are sent, and they behave just as well as the
white children do.
	A gentleman gave me a nice little Bible
on Christmas, and I think a great deal of it,
because it is the first Bible I ever owned.
	I want to do right all the time, and pray
every day that I may be kept good and may
learn to be useful.
							LOU B.

	From St. GEORGE, April 15, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I am a little girl ten years old. I do not
know how to address you as I ought. I am
going to school to sister O. M. Everetts in
the first ward school.  The little girls in
our school being anxious to do something
for the temple, commenced to make a quilt;
and in about ten days after we commenced
it was finished. they gave us ten dollars
credit on the temple.  Sister M. Mustard
kindly proffered to cut the pieces out for us:
we all felt pleased to think we were able to
do something to help build the temple.
The little children are all anxious to do
something that their names may be record-
ed for good. Wishing you great success
with your valuable paper, I subscribe my-
self,		Yours Affectionately,
		MARY ANN RANKIN.


"IT's well enough for you to name your
boy Elias," said Aunt Hepzibah, "but for
goodness sakes don't name him Alias, 'cause
those Aliases is always cuttin' up bad.
Here's Alias Jones, Alias Brown, Alias
Thompson, Alias One-eyed Jake all been
took up in New York for robbin' and steal-
ing."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LITERARY CURIOSTY.

	A LADY occupied a whole year in searching for and fit-
ting the following thirty-eight lines from English and
American poets.  The whole reads almost as if it had
been written at one time and by one author.

				LIFE.

	Why all this toil for triumphs of an hour?
										[Young.
	Life's a short sermon--man is but a flower:
									[Dr. Johnson.
	By turns we catch the fatal breath and die,—
										   [Pope.
	The cradle and the tomb, alas! so nigh.
									           [Prior.
	To be better far than not to be,
										[Sewell.
	Though all men's life may seem a tragedy;
									       [Spencer.
	But light cares speak when mighty griefs are dumb—
										[Daniel.
	The bottom is but shallow whence they come.
							     [Sir Walter Raleigh.
	Your fate is but the common fate of all;
								 	[Longfellow.
	Unmingled joys here no man befall;
									  [Southwell.
	Nature to each allots his proper sphere,
									   [Congreve.
	Fortune makes folly her peculiar care.
									    [Churchill.
	Custom doth often reason overrule,
									    [Rochester.
	And throw a cruel sunshine on a fool.
									   [Armstrong.
	Live well,—how long or short permit to heaven.
										  Milton.
	They who forgive most shall be most forgiven.
										  [Bailey.
	Sin may be clasped so close we cannot see its face,—
										  [French.
	Vile intercourse where virtue has not place,
									  Sommerville.
	Then keep each passion down, however dear,
									      [Thomsom.
	Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear;
										    [Byron.
	Her sensual snares let faithless pleasures lay,
										  [Smollet.
	With craft and skill to ruin and betray,
										   [Crabbe.
	Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise:
										Massinger.
	We masters grow of all that we despise.
										   [Cowley.
	Oh, then, renounce that impious self-esteem:
										   [Beattie.
	Riches have wings, and grandeur is a dream,
										   [Cowper.
	Think not ambition wise because 'tis brave,
							       [Sir Walter Davenent.
	The paths of glory lead but to the grave.
											[Gray.
	What is ambition? 'Tis a glorious cheat.
										       [Willis
	Only destructive to the brave and great.
										    [Addison.
	What's all the gaudy glitter of a crown?
										     [Dryden.
	The way to bliss lies not on beds of down.
									[Francis Quaries.
	How long we live, not years but actions tell;
										    [Watkins.
	That man lives twice who lives the most life well.
										    [Herrick.
	Make, then, while yet ye may, your God your friend.
									[William Mason.
	Whom Christians worship, yet not comprehend.
											   [Hill.
	The trust that's given guard, and to yourself be just;
											 [Dana.
	For live we how me may et die we must.
										[Shakespere.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	COLDS.—Among all the preventives of
cold, we would recommend the thorough
morning ablution over the entire body, with
much friction.  It seems to prepare the skin
to resist changes of temperature.
	LEMON JUICE FOR DIPTHERIA.—Large
quantities of pure lemon juice as a gargle
for diptheria, is said to have been used
with success in the practice of M. Revillout
during a period of eighteen years.  It is
certainly very simple, and could not do
harm.

[Column 2]
	"WALKING.—A learned Dr. of Cambridge
used to tell his students to take good care
of the third milestone out of Cambridge—
to go around it every day to see that no one
carried it off.  While no man could expect
materially to alter his physical constitution,
it might be conserved and strengthened;
and chiefly by exercise, healthful food,
enough and not too much, and breathing
good air."
	BOILED WHEAT.—Take the finest wheat,
wash it in tepid water. Put it to boil with
five or six parts of water to one of wheat.
Cover close, and after it commences boiling
set it where it will barely simmer.  Cook it
four or five hours, or if hard it will require
still more time.  When done it should be
even full of water or juice, which thickens
and becomes gelatinous while cooking. It
can be eaten by itself or served with cream,
sirup, or milk.
	RULES FOR NERVOUS PEOPLE.—Avoid
working beyond your strength, responsibili-
ties or capacity, avoid all avoidable worries,
and unwholesome excitement or dissipa-
tion: seek the society of healthy, kindly,
sensible people.  Your occupation should
be useful, healthful and fairly remunerative.
Live as much as you can in the fresh air
without exhausting your strength.  Wear
light clothing, to allow the access of air to
the skin.  Take occasional Turkish baths.
Use vegetable food with your diet, and
while you partake of  food be surround-
ed by cheerful influences, and it will be
more likely to agree with you.
	EXERCISE FOR THE HEART.—An eminent
physician Dr. McCormac of Dublin directs
special attention to the danger of giving
too little exercise to the heart.  "To
those who labor under functional heart af-
fection, walking though not in excess, and
not too fast, or too far, over hilly unequal
surfaces; but swinging the arms unrestrained
by bond or stay in the open air is the best ex-
ercise of any.  This develops and strength-
ens the cardiac muscular fibers, and aer-
ates the blood; at the same time fat is spar-
ingly developed and coupled with cautious
and abstinent habits the heart's action be-
comes reliable, even, and equal to all life's
proper exigencies."
	EATING FRUIT.—Upon the quality of
fruit depends its value as food, both in its
ripening, and its being the product of
healthy parentage; we should not be satis-
fied with an interior second quality, when
the superior first class could be obtained.
Care should be taken also as to the method
of drying.  None but the product of a
healthy growth and matured development
can be sufficiently nutritious; such fruit will
be relished as no inferior kind could possi-
bly be.  The distasteful and comparatively
foodless should be rejected.  Cook it as we
may, experiment as we will, the results are
unsatisfactory. During the winter time,
the blood becomes more or less depraved by
the concentrated and highly carbonized
food, and fruit is needed as a counteractant,
to supply what the system demands for
health; sub-acid fruits relish best: and to the
natural appetite, "that which tastes best is
best."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Jewels.—Soap and water is the best
material for cleaning jewelry.
	To Improve whitewash.—A strong solution
of sulphate of magnesia gives a beautiful quality
to whitewash.
	To Clean Casks.—Rancid butter, pork, and lard


casks may be purified by burning straw or shav-
ings in them.
	Cork Cement.—Black cement for bottle corks
consists of pitch hardened by the addition of resin
and brickdust.
	To Clear Water.—A piece of alum as big as a
hickory nut will render clear a pail of muddy wa-
ter. Dissolve the alum, stir and allow the impu-
rities to settle.
	To Do Up Silk.—To make silk which has been
wrinkled appear like new, sponge on the surface
with a weak solution of gum arabic or white glue,
and iron it on the wrong side.
	To Polish Plate.—One ounce each of muriate of
soda, cream of tartar, and alum boiled in a gallon
of water, gives plate a beautiful whiteness.  Dip
the article in the mixture, remove, and rub dry.
	Good Glue.—A handful of quicklime, mixed in
four ounces of linseed oil and boiled to a good
thickness, makes, when spread on plates and hard-
ened, a glue which can be used in the ordinary
way, and will resist heat.
	To Stain Wood.—A good walnut stain for wood
is composed of water, one quart; washing soda,
one and a half ounces; Vandyke brown, two and a
half ounces; bichromate of potash, one fourth of an
ounce. Boil for ten minutes and apply with a brush,
either hot or cold.
	For Washing Calico.—To wash calico without
fading, infuse 3 gills of salt in 4 quarts of water.
Put in the calico while the infusion is hot, and
leave until the latter is cold.  It is said that in this
way the colors are rendered permanent and will
not fade by subsequent washing.
	For Washing Colored Cloth.—Before washing
almost any colored fabrics, soak them in water, to
each gallon of which a spoonful of oxgall has been
added. A teacupful of lye in a pail of water is
said to improve the color of black goods. A strong
tea of common hay will improve the color of French
linens. Vinegar in the rinsing water, for pink and
green, will brighten those colors, and soda answers
the same end for both purple and blue.
	Dried Apples.—Quite a number of "good things"
may be made from them.  For preserves, take
nice apples, soak them over night in rather more
than enough water to cover them; in the morning
boil them till soft, then add about as much sugar in
bulk as there was of the apples before soaking, and
cook until they look clear; season with lemon, or
add a few raisins when you do the sugar.
	For Pies.—Strain through a colander; sweeten,
season with lemon and bake with two crusts. One-
third dried sweet apples stewed with peaches are
an improvement to the peaches.  Dried apples
ought always to be soaked over night before be-
ing stewed.
	For Jelly.—Soak one quart of apples in four
quarts of water, over night, boil until the apples
are soft, strain the water off carefully and to one
quart of juice add a quart of sugar and boil it un-
til it jells.  If the apples are nice, you may sweet-
en them and they will do very well for sauce, es-
pecially if you have a little lemon to put in them;
but you can use apples for this that are not fit for
the table.  In looking over dried apples to stew,
throw all that are not first-class in a dish by them-
selves for jelly.


﻿THE first sweet flowers, that baby Susa's
hand had ever been permitted to command,
she pulled to pieces gently and with care,
she scattered them about, and here they
are! For tenderly the scented leaves we
took, and here secured them in a valued
book. And they are precious now and dear
to us, for Lina's little one arranged them
thus.  With her oft fingers, dimpled, white 
and small—She is the purest, sweetest flow-
er of all.	 						L.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FLORAL HINTS.

	ST GEORGE, UTAH, April 12th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT.
	As spring is likely now to put in a tardy
appearance, it is time the flower growers
were commencing work.  Now it is better
to have a small flower garden with a few
really nice flowers, than much garden and
few flowers.  So I will suggest, that each
take a small area of ground, have it well
prepared and plant with care. Water twice
a day or as often as the surface of the ground
becomes a little dry. Say take one square
rod of ground, make it properly level, get
the boys to bring on to this six wheelbarrow
loads or one wagon load of WELL ROTTED,
fine manure, and about the same quantity
of washed sand.  Spread evenly, then have
the ground spaded well and fine, thoroughly
incorporating sand, manure and soil together,
leaving no lumps. Now lay off the ground
and make shallow drills for the seeds, and
cover not more than a quarter of an inch
with dirt; then sprinkle along, about the
same depth of coarse sand—gently press
down, then with a watering pot keep the
ground moist to the top till the seeds are
up; you may need to give a little water two
or three times a day.  Pinks, sweetwil-
liams, antirrhimnus, canterberry bells and
most other perrennial plants do best to take
them up every spring, and plant them in
well fertilized and prepared ground, divid-
ing them when too large.  Pansies and vio-
lets require a half shaded position with
ground liberally moist.
	The smallest sized flower seeds will do
best sowed on the top of a pot of good earth,
and kept in the house until plants are well
up, and then transplanted.  Seeds of mig-
nonette and many other flowers will come
up much sooner if soaked in warm water
twenty-four hours, and better still when a
few drops of spirits of camphor are added
to the water.  Seeds of cypress should be
soaked in HOT water before planting. Nas-
turtian makes a lovely house plant. More
anon.					     FLORA.
	A DOUBLE flower is unnatural and will
take every chance to get back into its single
or natural state.  It is useless to try and
save seeds of double petunias, balsams, etc.,
for they will surely be single the next year.
—Exchange.
	STARTING DAHLIAS.—Among the many
things to be done as the season advances, is
the starting of dahlias. We start ours in
boxes by the kitchen fire, keeping very
moist; as soon as the danger from frost is
over, put them in open ground in a warm
situation; separate the tubers; do not have
more than one in a hill.  Have a good strong
stake to each plant and begin tying it when
quite young with woolen yarn or strips of
cloth. If your dahlia has more than one
shoot, select the strongest one; pinch off all
the rest; pinch all the side shoots up to two
feet from the ground; then allow one or
two branches to grow; mulch with fine
grass; have an old tub, save all the soap
suds and put it on daily and your flowers
will repay you for all your trouble.—Rural.
PERENNIAL PEAS.—Whatever else you
do in the garden this spring, do not forget
to plant a few seeds of Perennial Peas.
They do not flower the first season, but with
ordinary care in hoeing and manuring, the
plants increase in beauty each year.  They
are perfectly hardy, though a slight cover-
ing of coarse stable manure, put on in the
fall, gives them a good start in the spring.
	One variety in our garden is very pretty,
and its clusters of bright, rose-colored flow-

[Column 2]
ers are borne in great profusion in early
summer.  If no seed is allowed to mature,
you can be sure of finding some flowers for
bouquets throughout the season.
	The plants are easily trained in any de-
sired form, but a cheap and favorite mode of
ours is to surround them with hemlock
brush four feet high and set in the ground
so closely as to form a sort of circular hedge.
This can be trimmed evenly on the top, and
at first, is rather ornamental of itself; but
the leaves soon fall off, leaving a fine net-
work of branches to support the vines,
which are soon covered with a mass of rosy
bloom.—Ib.
	A STRAWBERRY grower states that to
two barrels of rain water he put one quarter
of a pound of ammonia, and one quarter of
a pound of common nitre, and with this so-
lution he sprinkled his strawberry beds
every night when blossoming. The result
was double the amount of large strawber-
ries to that just adjoining not so treated.
Try it.


For the EXPONENT.
			A LECTURE,
READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
	TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION, BEAVER, MAR.
	13th—75.
MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS:
	Permit one who has had a deep experi-
ence in the ways of life, to offer a few re-
marks on this interesting occasion. You
have assembled here to-day to celebrate
your organization into a band of faithful
laborers in the cause of truth and reform.
What greater step could you have taken in
the march of advancement and progression,
in the more perfect habits of life, and in-
terior powers of intellect and understand-
ing, than to form yourselves into a body poli-
tic, for the mutual regulation of your hab-
its, both social and domestic. Assimilation
in faith and practice creates union. This So-
ciety is denomiated "The Retrenchment
Association." The true definition of the
term signifies, co-operation of effort, to re-
strain any tendency to extravaganve, to re-
frain from what is impracticable in words
and deeds: inter-communion, harmonizing,
and agreeing to establish the most wise, pru-
dent, and refining intercourse with each
other.
	If as a Society you exist only in name,
where will be the influence of your excellen-
cy and beauty, which your friends have so
fondly anticipated? I could wish that your
habits of deportment might be so far supe-
rior to those who do not incline to unite with
you, that you could be individually recog-
nized. Let your dress be a medium be-
tween two extremes: always in good taste,
and of material accessible to all, never try-
ing to outvie each other in fashionable ap-
parel, but in affability and acts of kindness
let each one endeavor to be an example to
others.
	I know it would grieve the faithful sister
who presides over you, as well as others who
yearn over your best interests, were they
to see pride creeping in among you. I will
dare to believe that those whom I now ad-
dress have inherited a little sound common
sense from their mothers. That honesty,
integrity, humility, charity and love of
good order, are inborn principles in your or-
ganizations. Never be intolerant, and harsh
in judging. If some of your associates hap-
pen to fall under a different influence from
yourselves, and have ventured incautiously
on inadmissable ground, be not too ready to
condemn them, try by loving words to win


them to walk in safer paths. Perhaps their
parents and guardians have failed to exer-
cise a proper discipline over them. Never
try to appear affable in the presence of a 
profane man; were you to hear the name of
a kind earthly parent spoken of in a disre-
spectful manner, you would feel aggrieved,
should it not wound you more to hear the 
name of your kind Heavenly Father irrev-
erently repeated.  Shun infidelity as you
would the poison of asps.
	Lastly, cultivate the society of the good
and true, of both sexes. Remember this,
that prayer is as necessary to the soul, as
food is to the body, that you may grow in
grace and knowledge. 
				MRS. L. B. PRATT.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A SCHOOLBOY has put on paper the fact
that he would 'rather be a little girl and
obey his mother than be a dog and obey
the moon."
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolution to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a couple with
a colicky baby.
	THE reason a boy runs from his father, if
he can, when that relative is after him with
a strap, is that he would rather be chased
than chastened.
	"WHERE are you going?" asked a little
boy of another who had slipped and fallen
down on the icy pavement. "Going to get
up," was the blunt reply.
	A BAD little boy rubbed cayenne pepper
dust all over the back of his jacket. The
school ma'am thrashed him briskly, but dis-
missed school immediately to run to the
nearest drug store for eye-water.
	PA, has the world a tail?" asked an ur-
chin of his father. "No, Child. How could
it have one when it is round?" "Well,"
persisted the heir, "why do the papers say,
So wags the world,' if it has no tail to wag
about?"
	"DID any of you ever see an elephant's
skin?" inquired a teacher of an infant
class.
	"I have," exclaimed one.
	"Where?" asked the teacher.
	"On the elephant," said the boy, laugh-
ing.
	A VERY polite and impressive gentleman
said to a youth in the street.
	"Boy, may I inquire where Robinson's
drug store is?"
	"Certainly, sir," replied the boy, very re-
spectfully.
	"Well, sir," said the gentleman, after
waiting awhile, "where is it?"
	"I have not the least idea, yer honor,"
said the boy.


A CERTAIN New York boot-black has a
more lucrative income than some of the
leading business men, and it is said that the
cake and pie stand at the Postoffice is worth
more than any clerkship in that institution.
There is also said to be a news-stand in the
same neighborhood whose income is prefer-
able to many a distinguished city editor,
while the fellow who sells cakes and coffee
on another corner has realized sufficient to 
purchase a farm besides fifty or sixty thou-
sand dollars worth of real estate in Gotham.
Another man is growing rich by purchasing
pigs' feet at the slaughter-house for $1,25
per hundred and then turning them into
souse, for which he has a large and growing
custom.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.
	A MOUNTAINOUS event—Andes election.
	A "BARBER-OUS custom"—Shaving off
the beard.
	SCOUTS OF THE PLAIN—Men who sneer
at homely women.
	A MODERN writer says one ounce of jus-
tice is worth a ton of theory.
	WHAT month puts on more airs and is
most aristocratic of any in the calendar—
March.
	A HORSE with more appetite than grace
ate up a Chinaman's pig tail in San Francis-
co a few days since.
	A NEW YORK paper speaks of a gentleman
who was quartered at a hotel but does not
tellus what became of the quarters.
	IF they would put the ladies on one side
and the gentlemen on the other side at a spell-
ing match, Quilp says one would know which
side to bet on.
	On asking a servant girl if the hired
man cleared the snow off with alacrity, she
replied:
	"No ma'am he used a shovel."
	THE power of love receives fresh illus-
tration in the case of a Montreal girl who
sold her new bonnet so that her lover might
buy a pair of skates.
	THE best defense of lying that we ever
read is the remark of Charles Lamb, related
by Leigh Hunt, that "truth is precious, and
not to be wasted on everybody."
	A MISSOURI woman who applied for a
situation as car driver, being asked if she
could manage mules, scornfully replied, "O
course I can, I’ve had two husdands."
	"JOHN, I am afraid you have been forget-
ing me," said a bright-eyed girl to her
sweetheart the other day. "Yes, Sue, I
have been for getting you these two years."
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage the other evening and rushing to the
hall she called up stairs: Mother! am I en-
gaged to anybody now?"
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
lately married to Count Tziecuzksi, has now
got a name which is the nearest approach
to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze that
has yet been made.
	"BIDDY," said a lady, "step over and see
how old Mrs. Jones is this morning." In a
few minutes Biddy returned with the infor-
mation that Mrs. Jones was seventy-two
years, seven months and two days old that
morning.
	"HALLOA, there, how do you sell your
wood?"
	"By the cord."
	"How long has it been cut?"
	"Four feet."
	"I mean how long has it been since you
cut it?"
	“No longer than it is now."
	A CELEBRATED writer gives the condi-
tions under which women of different na-
tionalities are fond of their husbands.
	A French woman if he is witty or chival-
rous. A German, for courtesy. A Dutch
woman, if he does not disturb her comfort
too much. A Spanish woman, if he wreak
vengeance on all who displease her. An
Italian, if he is dreamy and poetical. A Rus
sian, if he dispises all Westerners as barbar-
ians. An English woman, if he succeeds
in gaining favor with the court and nobility.
And an American woman is satisfied if he
has plenty of money.


[Column1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
	The EXPONENT is my favorite paper: I
realize how unfit I am to write, still as all
have been invited to do so, I trust I may
benefit myself, and I ask my kind readers
to be patient, and not think I write for no-
toriety; but because it is a duty and to me a
pleasure when my simple thoughts can do
any good even to one of the least. I take
great delight in reading our paper (if I may
be allowed to say our) and I really be-
lieve if the young ladies in Utah were to
read it more, and leave trash alone, fewer
would go to ruin. It makes my heart ache
when I realize how reckless and indiffer-
ent the girls are both in the cities and vil-
lages; I cannot see much difference between
the two places. They seem to think that
life is long, and there is plenty of time to
prepare for eternity. Though wherever
there has been Retrenchment Associations
organized it has caused them to reflect more
upon their duties as daughters of Zion.
Many girls every year marry those who
care not for God or man, and who cannot
save themselves, much less assist them in
the work of redemption. Do girls who
act thus realize for a moment what they are
doing? Some will say "I would rather
marry one of our faith, but then if I should
chance to love one opposed to it, I should
certainly be the wife of the one I loved
whether he were Gentile or Jew." "Relig-
ion" they say "should not interfere where
happiness and the heart are concerned," and
if one regards love as many do they might
be justified. Yet I am inclined to believe
that if such persons were to live prayer-
fully and humbly before our Heavenly
Father and keep the company of true saints
they would not be troubled with the fitful
passions formed for strangers. Love is pure
and holy and I cannot call this feeling love.
Love is an attribute of the Deity and is
rarely fromed instantly, and it can only be
founded on true merit, as I understand it.
Yet the name of this sacred feeling has
been substituted as an excuse for the most
unhallowed passion. Love would ever seek
to bless, not to ruin or bring disgrace.
Again some young ladies will say, "One
might as well marry a Gentile as an indiffer-
ent Mormon." I do not know that there is
any necessity of doing either. In the first
place, it is the duty of every woman to
be a saint herself, then if she is careful in
her choice, she may get a husband who feels
the same; and even should she be so un-
fortunate as to get one who is not worthy,
her motives were pure and she commits no
sin. When she acts in open rebellion against
the commands of her Creator how great is
her sin against herself, her children, and
the laws of God. The man to whom she
gives her life may be really an honorable
man, a good citizen possessing many good 
traits of character; still he is unworthy to
be the companion of a true-hearted daught-
er of Zion. Our friend "Beth" has advised
all, not to marry without love, and while I
readily endorse that advice, I would add,
be sure you know who you are loving and
what is the foundation of the sentiment.
Don't fancy you must marry one you have
no right to, because of this miscalled feel-
ing. Keep your heart free to recieve the
affection of the noble and just and remem-
ber that this sudden infatuation for a fascin-
ating appearance is not going to give you
future satisfaction and happiness. Then
dear girls, let us all try, (for I am with you
just as apt to go astray,) to be worthy our
profession, and no longer decieve ourselves
[Column 2]
by thinking there is plenty of time to re-
form. To-day is the time.
					MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND April 9, 1875.


THE SCHOOLMASTER ABROAD:—The great
spelling epidemic has reached California at
last, and San Jose, San Francisco and other
places are having considerable merriment
at their spelling matches, as people in the
East have had before them.  An exchange
says that in St. Louis, recently, a number of
well-known citizens contended in a spelling
match. Reavis, the capital removal man,
went down on the word "capitolian;"
Knapp, editor of the Republican, was
crushed by Laocoon," and sat down amid
shouts of derision; Carl Schurz collided fa-
tally with "pianissimo;" Henry T. Blow
was vanquished by "tempestuous;" Cartz
Brown was floored by cosmographical;" ex-
Congressman Standard succumbed to "may-
orality;" and Captain Eads, who knows all
about digging out the Mississippi, couldn't
spell peerless.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
   CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		      AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
SPRING BED, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
	WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
       75, 77, and 70 First South Street, between East
                            and Temple Streets.
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.  	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	  20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copics, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
