VOL. 3.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1874.					No. 8.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"DEMON WORSHIP," is what a prominent
New York paper calls Spiritualism, which
it says is making giant strides and is rap-
idly becoming the national religion(?) of the
United States. This is certainly, not very 
flattering to a great nation which prides
herself on her christianity and civilization; 
sends missionaries abroad to convert the
heathen; and frowns upon the Latter day
Saints because they do not appear without
spot or blemish in the sight of her pure
eyes. 
	THE PRINCIPAL officers of the California
Woman Suffrage Society are: Mrs. Sarah
Wallis, President; Mrs. Laura DeForce
Gorden, (Editor, Stockton Leader,) Vice
President; Mrs. Mathews, Recording Sec-
retary; Mrs. Watson, Corresponding Secre-
tary, besides one Vice President for about
half the counties in the State and a Board
of Directors.


THE SEX.
	MADAME Anna Bishops is singing in Ore-
gon.
	MINNIE Hauck, the American prima
donna in Vienna, is a New Orleans girl.
	MRS. George Lewis, Rockway, N. Y.,
rowed out in a boat in the breakers on
Thursday last, and rescued a boy from
drowning whose boat had capsized.
	THE ladies of Portage Grange, at School-
craft Mich., have instituted a Dress Reform
and hereafter will not follow Dame Fashion,
but have a fashion each of her own—one
that will be more consistent with their
purse and couducive of better health.
	THE Bedford (Pa,) Gazette says that
"there are in Pennsylvania 150 Post-mis-
tresses. It has been common for many years
to appoint women to that position, and they
are always efficient officers. We believe not
one has ever proved a defaulter to the gov-
ernment."
	THE Princess Margaretta is greatly be-
loved in Rome for her many and tender
charities. She is very beautiful, and it is
said that her presence has an influence on
the populace possessed by no one else. When
any disturbance threatens they send for her.
Her age is twenty-four.
	OF Mrs. M'Mahon, wife of the President
of France, Lucy Hooper gives the following
description: "She is short, stout, and un-
stylish-looking and in her dress of dark
blue silk, with tunic and sleeveless corsage
of open worked black silk, a hat wreathed
with pale pink roses, and a bouquet of pink
roses in her hand, looked like the house-
keeper of some aristocratic family abroad in
her best clothes.
	MISS Josie Burnett and Miss Mabel
Weiss, two Boston girls, rowed a very in-
teresting match against time at the Isle of
Shoals. The course was from Star Island to
Appledore, distance over mile, to be done
within fifteen minutes. They accomplished
the feat in eleven minutes, and won the
wager. The bet was with a gentleman, for
two gentlemen's drab soft hats, against one
chip-straw lady's hat trimmed with flowers.
	THE Philadelphia ladies claim the honor
of opening the first sea-side resort for poor
women that has been established. It is sit-
uated at Asbury Park, about six miles from
Long Branch, N. J. The dwelling stands
in a fine grove. Board for the season is
fixed at $3 per week. The institution is an
aid, instituted for the assistance of deserv-
ing women. A prominent citizen of Phila-
delphia gave the ladies a check for $5000,
and the home is entirely paid for.
	MISS Alexandrine D'Egroff of Wizentry,
Novogorod, (a province of Russia), has tak-
en up her temporary residence in Ann Arbor,
Mich., with a view to graduation in the
Medical Department of the University.
She has already attended lectures in St.
Petersburg and Paris, but being a woman,
could not get a diploma by completing her
medical education in either city. She speaks
French fluently—the language with which
she holds intercourse with the "Western
barbarians," and is fast acquiring English
under the instructions of Miss Sarah D.
Hamlin, a recent University graduate.
	WE are exceedingly grieved to learn by
the newspapers that Mrs. Celia Burleigh,
widely known as a speaker, and writer in
the WOMAN'S JOURNAL, and widow of the
late William H. Burleigh, the Connecticut
poet, has recently gone to the City Hospi-
tal in Rochester, N. Y., probably to spend
her last weeks, she being far advanced in
consumption. She has, it is stated, neither
a home nor near relatives. Her last touch-
ing article, entitled "Life on a Stretcher,"
will be remembered by our readers.—Wo-
man's Journal.


FLORAL HINTS.

     WALKS, TALKS AND HINTS.

			ST. GEORGE, Sept. 2nd, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I shall be pardoned for lack of greater
promptness, when I tell you how very busy
I have been for the last month, more among
the fruit than the lovely flowers, drying,
canning, preserving and pickling. First
peaches, then apples, pears, plums, necta-
rines and grapes; each in their turn I have
had to manipulate, preparing not only a
supply for future family use but some to
spare, for sale. You must also know I am
quite a Bee-Keeper and have an apiary I
am not ashamed of, which I take much plea-
sure in caring for. This not only gives me
more care and labor, but all the honey our
little family needs. And how easy it is
paid for; just think, a swarm of bees to start
with, a few hives, a bee journal or two, an
interesting study, a few hours every week,
—result, all the delicious honey we desire,
some to spare and a hundred per cent. in-
crease every year. I wonder a hundred
times a month, why every sensible sister or
housekeeper don't have bees and thus have
a plenty of clear delicious honey, amuse-
ment for spare hours and a hundred per
cent. profit. In fact, from my own experi-
ence, I see no reason why female labor and
skill may not be just as successful in Bee-
keeping, as that of the sterner sex; for it is
light, interesting, clean, sweet and  profita-
ble. Now are not these advantages enough?
But I have strayed from my subject, of put-
ting in a good, strong excuse. Well be-
sides all I have named; Willie, the darling!
has been sick—poor little fellow, cutting a
whole mouthful of teeth and O! the trouble
of the mother—day and night—any min-
ute—any hour—well "you know how it is
yourself" or will, perhaps, so I refrain; and
suggest to those who have never tried it, to
select good white-fleshed, sweet apples,
peal, quarter and core; now take two lbs. of
white sugar to three of apples thus prepared
and make, in the usual way, into a most
beautiful preserve, seasoning with any spice
desired. To make a delicious drink boil
your cider in a clean, bright brass or copper,
four gallons to one, and put it away in a
cellar, in bottles, jug or keg; and when used
put a spoonful or two in a glass of water.
It makes a cheap, nice and wholesome bev-
erage.
	Yesterday a sister called and on seeing
my Geraniums, healthy and in blossom,
complained of hers as sickly and without
bloom. I asked her, "Have you watered
them regularly?" "O yes," she said, "twice
a day." "And have you not given them
too much?" I said. "No," she replied, "I
have been very careful." "Well," said I,
'isn't the pot too small for the plant, or
dosn't it want new fresh earth, or fertiliz-
ing?" "Well," she said, "there may be
something in that, for they have been a
year in the same pot and nothing but water
given them." "Well," said I, "no wonder
your plants are yellow and sickly; how
would you like to be crammed into a small
room for a whole year without ventilation?
You must turn the plants out, give them
larger pots, good rich soil and in hot
weather keep them in some shade, like an
arbor, where they can get plenty of light
and air and but little sunshine, and then,
once a month feed them liquid manure,
thus: take an old pan or bucket, fill with
well rotted, fine, old manure from the sheep
fold, cow shed or hen coop; pour on plenty
of water and, after soaking a day, water
your plants with it a few times. Many a
plant gets poor and sickly for want of this
treatment—There, Willie calls!
							FLORA.


IT is not well for us to cherish the habit
of dwelling much on the faults and short-
comings of those with whom we live. It
makes us more critical than generous. It
effects the cordiality of our manner toward
them. It insensibly lessens our confidence.
It interferes with the delicious ease and free-
dom of our intercourse with them. It col-
ors the remarks that we make about them.
It is said of the virtuous woman, whose
price is above rubies, that the law of kind-
ness is in her tongue. But in order to be in
the tongue it must first be in the heart, and
the habit of dwelling much on the imper-
fections of our friends and associates will
soon drive it from us.


TOMATOES were first used in this country,
as an edible, in the year 1819.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.

A home was ours when Nature wore for all a smiling face:
Where we with feeble virtue strove to serve the God of
	grace; 
But enemies of truth arose, and burned our peaceful
	homes,
And drove us to the wilderness, alone and lost to roam.
Forlorn, fatigued, and sore distressed, and pinched with
	want and cold;
With foes rejoicing in our woes, God did our grief behold,
And over deserts, hills and plains, He led our trusting
	feet
To Deseret, dear Deseret, a sweet, secure retreat.

		CHORUS.

Then cheer again for Utah! the land we love so well:
Thanksgiving for our Mountain Home in truthful num-
	bers swell;
It is the home our God has given where we in peace
	may dwell.

We came into this mountain land all travel-stained and
	worn
But thankful to our fathers' God who gave us thus a home;
And here we dwelt, contented well, from all the world
	apart,
In a land once thought a barren wild, completely deso-
	late.
But Labor has a potent charm to make the desert smile,
Change desolation into bloom and barreness beguile.
Neat little villages spring up beneath its magic sway,
Contentment and prosperity attend its happy way.

		Then cheer again, &c.

We gladly till the willing soil and raise the golden grain,
With orchards fair and gardens gay we clothe the smil-
	ing plain:
We build our homes and make them fair, we drive the
	saw and plane,
The vise and anvil never rust, we make them ring again;
Millstones revolve, and spinning mules and busy shuttles
	fly. 
While sewing machines and fingers too the glittering
	needles ply.
"HOME MANUFACTURE!" is our cry, "Let's independent be
"Of those who drove us years ago and laughed our woes
	to see!"

		Then cheer again, &c.

We thank our God who brought us here for every bless-
	ing given—
First for this rugged mountain home, a refuge and a
	haven;
We thank him for the sunshine bright and for the win-
	ter's snow,
And the Mountain barrier He has set 'tween us and many
	a foe:
For life and health, for kindred ties, for raiment, food
	and fire,
And myriad, precious, unnamed gifts which thankful
	hearts inspire. 
He is our help in every need, our Father, Guide and
	Friend;
Oh! let us worthy children prove and serve Him to the
	end.

		Then cheer again. &c. 
								LU. DALTON.
Beaver, Beaver Co., U. T., July 24th, 18—.


OUR FASHIONABLE YOUNG LADIES.

	 BY BLANCH BEECHWOOD.

	One would think that with all the advan-
tages for improvement which are so univer-
sally afforded in our day, we ought to pro-
duce a superior class of young ladies. And
yet it is impossible to avoid noticing that
intellectuality and originality are rare; that
a certain style of imitation, (always of course,
the latest and most thoroughly fashionable
style) is adopted by the whole set. Man-
ners, conversation and appearance, all savor
of idleness and vapid frivolity.
	There is a new invasion over-runing the
world, selfish, slangy, loud and boisterous;
what would our prim, staid, quiet and un-
obtrusive, puritan grandmothers have
thought of them? all these accomplish-
ments are superficial and not for use but for
show. They stretch themselves far beyond
their limits; and laugh a great deal at old-
fashioned notions and ways, term them out
of date, out of style, and not adapted to the
age etc. but have they any new ideas of
their own to replace them or suggestions to
offer, except perhaps, a few quotations from
some modern fashionable writer of light
literature or the opinions of some presiding
genius of "polite society." They sneer a
little about religion and ridicule those who 
are really earnest and sincere or seeking
true methods of improvement; in fact they
like to be thought a little wicked, and no
doubt they are so, for:
		"Satan finds some mischief still
		For idle hands to do,"
even in this advanced age.
	They feel disgusted with their home and
its surroundings, and have an utter con-
tempt for real life and everything domestic;
they "are dying to go to San Francisco, or
New York," or some place more stylish and
more expensive; they wonder papa ever re-
fuses them money; and simply because they
are not forced to earn their bread, they seem
to feel there is no particular reason why they
should do anything. A little tatting to
show off their white, delicate hands elabor-
ately ornamented with rings or some highly 
sensational novel, serves their purpose for
employment; the only enthusiasm they ever
manifest is for parties or amusements of
that nature; they patronize the theatre, not
for what they can learn there of  lessons
of life but because it is fashionable; they
coquette and flirt with the beaux of their
"set," see and are seen, and the only thing 
they remember distinctly is the description
of the star actress' wardrobe. Their minds
become dissipated and are not capable of
concentration, there is no depth to them,
no substance which is really solid. They
experience a sort of mortification, if com-
pelled to walk a block with a relative or
friend under-dressed, dowdyish or country-
fied (as they term it) and feel as if an apol-
ogy were necessary, should they chance,
meantime, to meet one of their fashionable
acquaintances; with them style is upper-
most, and money, the one thing needful to
maintain it. Their fathers may grow gray,
fail in health, droop in spirits, under the bur-
den of their idleness and extravagance;
they see it not nor will they attribute it
to themselves, yet are they wholly guilt-
less? They are persistently blind to every-
thing save their own wants, and sacrifice
every true feeling of womanhood to this
idolatry of style. They are themselves
slaves and aim to draw the chains of bon-
dage so tightly around father and mother,
as to warp and distort all their purposes and
efforts for emancipation. The ambition of
their life is to pass "muster in society" and 
secure a rich husband; and to accomplish
this, all around them must succomb. Theirs
is the rule, they assume undue airs, they
award no courtesy, are even impertinent
and insolent to those older than themselves;
inexperience and ignorance bear the sway.
And after their bloom and youth has passed,
what resource have they to draw upon, in 
the dusty chambers of their brains?
	I do not think that this is in any measure
overstated, but there are some noble excep-
tions to this general and absolute influence;
and where there is an unconstrained, natu-
ral young lady, whose whole soul is not
wrapt up in fashion, dress and style; who
has independence of character enough to
think for herself; who is not feverishly impa-
tient with a desire to know who her future
husband will be and whether his wealth will
be immence; who is contented with her
lot and cheerful, joyous and happy in the
home provided for her by tender and loving
parents; people wonder why she is not like
the rest. She is sought after and studied,
and those who love truth, reality and mod-
esty fly to her as a rescue from the artificial,
stereotyped young ladies of their acquain-
tance.
	Is grace, kindness, self-forgetfulness and
true delicacy of behavior to vanish before
the caprices, vageries, frivolities and noth-
ingness of fashionable society, if these
things are its essence? Can we only regret
this state of things, and look with fear and
dismay upon such girls as the mothers of
the future race of men? for wherever woman
falls short of perfection, man is, in conse-
quence, similarly affected. Is not this some-
thing beneath the standard of excellence in
womanhood, and as mothers shall we yield
to this prevailing influence, or shall we
turn to our covenants and to our mission
upon the earth, rescue ourselves from the
dull lethargy into which we have fallen and
set to work vigorously, with solidity of
character, firmness of mind, and all con-
scious womanly dignity counteract this per-
nicious influence and crush the continued
strokes of this unreflecting and absolute
power?
	S. L. City, Sept. 9th, 1874.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	In trying to speak through your columns,
I realize my weakness and how dependent
I am upon my heavenly Father for His Holy
Spirit to assist me. It is my first attempt,
but still the precious maxim encourages me,
“Never say can’t, but try.”
	My whole heart is in this kingdom, and I
have a desire to do all the good in my power
to promote its interest. I often reflect,
what a blessed people we are, gathered up
here in these valleys, where we can listen
to the word of the Lord through His Ser-
vants and receive holy ordinances and
blessings which the world know not of.
How thankful we ought to feel! Still, I no-
tice that there is a careless, indifferent spirit
making itself manifest in our midst. What
is the cause of this? Is it because our wor-
thy President tells us that the time has
come for the “United Order” to be estab-
lished among this people? I think that
those who are living their religion and at-
tending to their prayers and privileges, will
bow down to the Lord with thanksgiving
and praise that they are, through the provi-
dences of His Almighty care, permitted to
see this day. Still the Scriptures tell us
that there is to be a great falling away, and
that a dividing line shall be drawn. The
time has come when we must either serve
God or Mammon. When we should exam-
ine ourselves, pray earnestly to our Father
in Heaven for His Holy Spirit to be with us
that we may learn our true position what
we have been placed here for and what is
required at our hands. I can bear testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, and I know that
the “United Order” is from God, and unless
we obey the same we shall never be permit-
ted to return to the celestial presence of
our Father in Heaven. For we know that
order is one of Heaven’s first laws, and that
God is a God of order, and where confusion
reigns, His Holy Spirit will not dwell. I
will say to those who do not understand it,
do not say a word against it, neither against
Plural Marriage, for they are Heaven’s di-
vine laws and must not be trifled with nor
lightly spoken of. We may ask ourselves
the questions, Are we wise or are we fool-


ish? Have we got oil in our lamps or are
they gone out? And then strive to sustain
the servants of the Lord by our faith and
prayers, and give heed unto their counsel,
bringing our minds and wills into subjection
to the priesthood and be ready to be led and
dictated by the same, that we may receive
the welcome words, well done, good and
faithful servants, enter into the joy of your
Lord.						J. R. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

						For the EXPONENT.
	     MISSION OF SCIENCE.

	But a hundred years ago, light burst forth
upon the earth in relation to the elements
of which it is composed. From that time
it has engaged the attention of scientists to
verify or prove the truth of those principles
then brought to light, principles that have
changed the belief of men relating to the
entire material world. Since then there
have been less important discoveries made
which are the consequences of the preceed-
ing discoveries. Not fifty years ago, like
startling and momentous intelligence came
forth concerning elements that are also eter-
nal, respecting the great moral world in
which we live, move and have our being;
and, as a parallel to the movements in the
physical or natural world men are now veri-
fying the truth of these great principles
then brought to light.
	There is spiritual as well as physical
science, the mission of each is to enable
men to know correctly; to know by research
conducted understandingly and systemat-
ically. In different departments of truth
the modes of investigation may differ be-
cause the conditions may not be alike. To
apply rules correctly is of the utmost im-
portance; natural things are estimated by
natural laws. By not attending to these
conditions the great tendency of natural
science in our day has been to produce
doubt and unbelief in relation to things
spiritual. Men cannot believe there are
methods by which to ascertain and be satis-
fied, say, for instance concerning the exist-
ence of a God, which is a very common
thing for men to doubt. But they do not
want to believe. Now this is not science;
science seeks for information because it
wants it and accepts it when found, even if
not what was expected.
	The truth is, intelligence comes to those
who seek it honestly and earnestly, both in
natural and spiritual things. With the ad-
vent of truth in our days, it has been made
known, among other things, "The time has
come that it shall be unto men, even accord-
ing to their faith." The spirit of that dec-
laration by the Prophet Joseph is that those
who want to believe there are no other than
the natural forces to account for these crea-
tions can do so; while those who seek for
information by the proper methods can
know concerning Him, who "made heaven,
and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of
waters." And it will be known thoroughly,
surely; it will be seen, too, that the same
harmony that exists in the natural sciences,
exist in the spiritual; and to prove that har-
mony between both is the true Mission of
Science.
				
					[For the EXPONENT.
	THE TELEPHONE.—An instrument of this
name, was invented by Reis as early as 1861;
in a late paper, a new instrument for the
transmission of sounds is noticed as the in-
vention of Mr. Elisha Gray, of Chicago.
Wonderful things are told about it but themode of transmission of sound is not ex-
plained. It appears that a violin may be
played on the "receiving wire" of the in-
strument and operations at the distance of
two thousand, four hundred miles produce
sounds on the violin; and tunes—"Hail!
Columbia" and others—were performed on
the instrument by Mr. Gray. "Knowledge
shall be increased," this is the destiny of the
age we live in. If only half of what has been
stated, be true who knows but that at our
next Grand Jubilee in our Tabernacle Mr. 
Gray may perform on it while quietly seat-
ed in Chicago.


FLOWERS.

	HOW many troubles might mankind be
spared if they would only wait to hear each
other's explanations!
	SOME persons are above our anger, and
some below it. To contend with our superiors
is indiscreti on and with our inferiors is in-
dignity.
	EVERY person has two educations—one
which he receives from others, and one,
more important, which he gives himself.—
Gibbon.
	Do not complain of life's trials. Through
these you may gain incomparably higher
good than through indulgence and ease.
	EVERY kind word and feeling, every good
deed and thought, every noble action and
impulse, is like the ark-sent dove, and re-
turns from the troubled waters of life bear-
ing a green olive-branch to the soul.
	CONVEY thy love to thy friend as an ar-
row to the mark, to stick there, not as a ball
against the wall, to rebound back to you.
That friendship will not continue to the end
that is begun for an end.—Enchiridion.
	THERE can be no friendship where there
is no freedom. Friendship loves a free air,
and will not be penned in straight and nar-
row inclosures. It will speak freely, and act
so too, and take no ill where no ill is meant;
nay, where it is, it will easily forgive, and
forget, too, on small acknowledgements.
	THE son of Emir had red hair, of which
he was ashamed, and wished to dye it.
But his father said, "Nay, my son, rather
behave in such a manner that all fathers
should wish their sons had red hair."
	GET close to your children—find out what
they are thinking—their aims and purposes,
what traits of character they admire, and
which they are most disposed to imitate.
Be kind, genial and sympathizing. Make
goodness attractive to them, Don’t be
afraid of nearness.


A GEM FROM WHITTIER.

	To appreciate the truth and beauty of the
following lines from the pen of Whittier,
(says the Hudson Republican,) it is neces-
sary to know the circumstances under which
they were written. A friend of Whittier's
youth, who had spent most of his life on
the Illinois prairries, called on the bachelor
poet, at his home in Amesbury, and together
they recalled the scenes of their childhood,
and briefly recounted the course of their
after life. Whittier seemed much affected
by the allusions of his friend to his prairie
home, where a wife, children, and a grand-
child ("Constance") awaited his return; and
on being asked for his autograph, replied,
"Call on your way to the cars and I will


hand it to you." The friend called, and re-
ceived the following gem, which he permits
us to publish. The lines show the delicate
texture of the poet's heart, the tendrils of
which were evidently stretching after some-
thing beyond the reach of a bachelor.

	The years, that since we met have flown,
	Leaves, as they found me, still alone.
	Nor wife, nor child, or grand child dear
	Are mine, the heart of age to cheer.
	More favored thou; with hair less gray
	Than mine, can'st let thy fancy stray
	To where thy little Constance sees
	The prairie ripple in the breeze.
	For one like her to lisp thy name
	Is better than the voice of Fame.
							[J. G. WHITTIER.


MR. GRAY AT HOME.

	"You have done the chores, haven't you
wife?" Said Mr. Gray coming in one night
about sundown.
	"No, dear, I had supper to get, and the
baby was so cross."
	"You haven't been getting supper all the
afternoon I hope."
	"No I had some washing to do, and the
windows to clean, and the pies to bake,
and"—
	"Oh, stop that, please. To hear you talk,
one would think you had more than your
share of work. I'm sure there is no man
tries harder than I do to save his wife steps,
and this is  the thanks I get for it. Don't
go to contradicting me. Give me the milk
buckets; if I ask you to milk, you will have
a dozen excuses. I want Katie to go with 
me, to keep the hogs off while I milk."
	Katie goes, and her father keeps her
three-quarters of an hour, and then tells her
she can go and take care of the baby while
her mother attends to the milk. In about
five minutes Mr. Gray comes in to supper.
His wife is down in the cellar.
	"Say, wife, ain't supper ready?"
	"In just a minute."
	"Just a minute! Everything is done in
just a minute. Another night, I suppose, I
will have to come in and get supper for my-
self, after working hard all day. If you
tried as hard as I do to make home pleasant,
we would get along a great deal better than
we do. You are always behind with every-
thing, and then you grumble because you
have so much work to do. Well, supper is
ready at last, is it? It is about time, I 
think."
	They sit down to table.
	"O Lord, we thank thee for this and all
other blessings; feed us with the bread of
life, and save us in heaven. Amen. Is
this the best table-cloth you have got?"
	"Yes."
	"It is? Why don't you buy another?
Ain't you got any money? What did you
do with the money you got for those eggs?
	"Bought a hat for Katie."
	"Bought a hat for Katie, and me needing
I don't know how many farm implements.
I never knew such extravagance in my life.
It would please me exceedingly if you
would consult me about such matters after
this. I guess I'll go to bed. I can't have
any peace up. Wife, before you come to
bed, just patch that rent in my coat; and
oh! I wore a hole in my sock to-day. You 
must either mend it, or get me out a clean
pair. There is a chicken in the barrel by
the hen-house; I want that for my break-
fast. Come children, come and kiss papa.
Good-night, and don't forget to say your
prayers."'


THERE are 800,000 more women than men
in England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMEN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			 LOCAL.
	The Co-operative Institution has discon-
tinued the retail dry goods business at the
Eagle Emporium store in this city, and
William Jennings has purchased their stock
......Mrs. Ann Eliza Young has been lectur-
ing in this city about Religion and the Re-
ligious system of the Mormons......Military
regulations lately made at Camp Douglas
provide that there shall be an officer of the
day at the post, and an officer of the provost
guard; there will be frequent patrols made,
and any enlisted man found without a pass
or one with a pass who in any way miscon-
ducts himself will be arrested......The Salt
Lake Theatre is illuminated by a new con-
stellation, Hoskins, Colville and Darrell......
A new pleasure boat, made to sail on Salt 
Lake and called the Sea Gull, has been built
by Mr. Thomas Whittaker of Centerville
......The street railway in this city is to be
extended eastward from the Valley House
corner to Lindsay's Gardens......The people
of Cache Valley look for another hard win-
ter and there cold weather has already com-
menced....Drunken soldiers have of late been
more than usually numerous and insolent
about town......The post office at Spring-
dale, Kane County, Utah, has been discon-
tinued......Judge McKean has ruled in fa-
vor of the city, that liquor stores shall not
be open after nine o'clock p. m.......Marcus
L. Ward, ex-Govenor of New Jersey, and
wife, lately visited this city......Fruit and
melons in great abundance have been raised
in and about the city this year......A con-
siderable quantity of the wheat crop in
Cache Valley has been destroyed by rust.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Akers Allen—"Florence
Percy"—is on the editorial staff of the Port-
land Advertiser......Victor Emanuel is hunt-
ing in the Alpine Valleys......Mme. Janau-
schek, the celebrated tragediene is playing
in New York, and Mr. George D. Chaplin
who lately finished an engagement in this
city is to be her leading supprot for the next
season........Isadora Pratt of Massachusetts
has gained admittance to the Berlin Royal
Art Academy......Ella Rowell, of Stewart,
Iowa, has been appointed postmistress at
that place......Gov. Tabbot's chances for re-
ceiving the Republican nomination for Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts are becoming more
favorable......Mrs. F. F. Victor is publishing
a complete account of the late movement
in the cause of temperance and reform, in
a pamphlet entitled "Woman's War with
Whisky, or Crusading in Portland......Sum-
ner's death cost Masachusetts $40,000......
Miss Thompson, who lately won fame at the 
royal academy is now painting a charge at
Waterloo of French cavalry against Eng-
lish infantry......James W. Marshall who is
said to have first discovered gold in Califor-
nia, is in receipt of an allowance of one
hundred dollars per month from that State
......Mrs. Stonewall Jackson lives in Char-
lotte, North Carolina, is about thirty years
old and said to be very beautiful......James
Clark of London is translating Shakespeare
into the Spanish Language......The Empress
of Austria is called the handsomest princess
and one of the handsomest women of Eu-
rope.
			GENERAL.
	The Indians are reported to be trouble-
some on the Union Pacific Railroad line, 
near North Platte, Nebraska.........Soda
Springs, in Idaho, is fast becoming a favorite
Watering Place or Summer Resort......Sil-
ver City, Idaho, lately held a grand cele-
bration in honor of the completion of the
telegraph to that place......The Maine Uni-
versalist Convention, held on the twenty-
fifth of June last, recognized the eligibility
of women to the Christian Ministry......
Sumner's grave in Mount Auburn cemetry
has yet no stone, and a lady visiting there
lately, found it with difficulty, marked only
with a stake at the head, to which was fas-
tened a visiting card bearing the words
"Sumner's Grave"......Several English farm
laborers, thrown out of employ, have left
England for Canada under the arrangements
made by Mr. Joseph Arch with the Cana-
dian Government, taking with them their
wives and children......This year vacation
month, August, has five Sundays; it is there-
fore known as "Ministers Leap Year"......
Yeddo now publishes a Japanese "Punch"
......The feminine students at Wooster Col-
lege, Ohio, are said to equal the masculines
in both mathematics and languages......One
of the reporters of a New York paper is an
ex-English officer who once out-ranked Sir
Garnet Wolsely in his own regiment......
One hundred dollars each, has been given
by Senator Edmunds and Walter Green, to
the art Gallery of the University of Ver-
mont at Burlington......The street car com-
panies of New Orleans have adopted the
London and Paris plan, and refuse transpor-
tation to a greater number of passengers
than can be seated......A young lady of Sa-
lem Massachusetts, has run a sewing ma-
chine and payed her own expences for two
years, and she also graduated at the head of
the graduating class of the Normal School.


EXHORTATIVE.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of
God, that giveth to all men liberally, and up-
braideth not; and it shall be given him."
	Is not this passage of Scripture applicable to us
all, especially at the present time? Is there any
sister in our community who does not feel that
we need all the wisdom, knowledge, and un-
derstanding, that God, in His mercy and lov-
ing kindness can bestow upon us, to help us
keep our covenants and fight the battle against
sin and Satan that is daily and hourly raging
against us, so that we may gain the victory and
prove ourselves Saints of God, in very deed?
What do we, as daughters of Zion, need to do
in order to strengthen and fortify ourselves
against the attacks that are made upon us on
every hand? We must arouse ourselves and
root out of our hearts every evil and overcome
every weakness that is likely to prove a barrier
between us and the Spirit of God. We are
the children of one family, belonging to one
household of faith, members of one church
namely, the Church of Jesus Christ, subjects
of one King, who is the King of Kings and
Lord of Lords.	
	Let us, as sisters, put from us all nationality
and prejudice; all covetousness, envy, and
malice, and every feeling calculated to mar the
peace of mind, and destroy the unity and love
that the principles of the Gospel of Jesus brings
to us when we observe them as we should.
	Let us be up and awake; shake off the slum-
ber that we have given way to; fast and pray
for that faith which was given to the Saints
anciently, for wisdom to guide us in all our
acts, and for the spirit of discernment that we
may know good from evil; let us wrestle with
the Lord, in mighty prayer, that we may have
strength to overcome the evils around us and
our children.
	Our fathers, husbands, and brothers, who
are faithful, need all the help we can give them
to buoy them up and cheer them onward in
the path of duty; and shall we sustain them in
their glorious calling, help them roll on the
work, and build up the kingdom of our God?
Yes, a thousand times yes! then let us away
with all folly and foolish pride and say: "We
will not pattern after the world, neither will
we follow after its pleasures." The question
comes before us, "What shall we do with our
children?" Help them to understand the faith
that we have embraced, educate them thor-
oughly to know the principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel. Teach them to pray earnestly for
the Spirit of God to guide them aright, that
they may not be led away from the path of
truth and virtue. Teach them to pray for and
sustain the Priesthood of the true and living
God. Lead them to emulate all good works.
Show them by our own acts and our faith, that
we practise what we preach, or in other words,
that we have proved for ourselves and can help
them to obtain knowledge and strength for
themselves, which will not prove delusive,
neither will it be fleeting or transient, but will
be sure beyond anything that the world, Satan
or his emissaries can give them. Help them
to be firm; to be punctual in every thing and
faithful to every trust, no matter how small; to
let no one outvie or outstrip them, in humility
courtesy and kindness; to treat the aged, and
the humblest of our brethren and sisters with
respect, no matter how poorly clad. Then we
will have noble sons and daughters, that moth-
ers will cherish, fathers will love and God will
pour down his blessings upon, as he did upon
the infant Samuel. Then shall our light
shine forth to the world in effulgent rays: it
will be as a beacon set upon a hill, that will
lead the weary and world-worn traveller to a
haven of rest; it will be like building our
house upon a rock that no wind or wave can
wash away, or persecution overcome.
	Let us each learn this lesson, let our hands
stretch forth in one faithful, united effort, our
hearts beat as one; and let us pledge ourselves
to sustain the Kingdom of God and its princi-
ples, while life shall last; and our children will
honor and sustain us for so doing.
	Some of my sisters may say, their poverty
prevents them, or they have so much trouble
they have no heart to stir themselves—St. Paul
says that God dealeth with us as with children
and if we are without trouble or chastisement,
then are we bastards and not the children of
God, for he chastens us for our profit that we
may bring forth fruits of righteousness.
								E. D.


EDUCATION.

	There is no subject of more importance to a
community or a nation than is the subject of
Education. On it depends the future destiny
of nations, kingdoms and empires; their rise
and progress, or fall and dissolution, in propor-


tion to the intelligence of the people. Under
these considerations, we would suggest the
policy of organizing a co-operative system of
education that will afford facilities for all who
wish to become students and are not able to do
so for want of means; that they be furnished
with manual labor, and learn trades that will
enable them to pay for their tuition. This we
consider far preferable to a free school system;
as the females as well as males may be taught
how to be self-sustaining. Shall women al-
ways be dependent? or will mothers wake up
to their duties and teach their daughters the
importance of learning trades and that the
true results of education are to produce what
they consume and to do something, not only
for themselves but for others. It has been a
long established custom in the training of fe-
males to teach them that they are dependent
while the males are thrown on their own re-
sources, this is all right but let woman do her
part, so that a man may know that when he
takes a wife he does not take a parlor ornament,
to waste all that he can earn, in extravagance. 
There is certainly a great responsibility resting
upon wives and mothers in regard to the health
aud longevity of their families. Teachers and
parents cannot attach too much importance to
the subject of diet and every woman should
understand the art of cooking. Never, until
we thus popularize this accomplishment, can
we expect to see healthy modes of living and a
people free from disease. 			W.E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 		61﻿


LITERARY NOTICE.
	
	"The Bible and Polygamy" is the title of
another neat publication issued from the Des-
eret News establishment. It is a republication
of the celebrated disscussion, between Prof.
Orson Pratt and Rev. Dr. J. P. Newman on
plural marriage; also of three sermons on the
same subject by Prest. Geo. A, Smith and El-
ders O. Pratt and G. Q. Cannon. This work is
for sale at the Deseret News Office or will be
mailed from there on receipt of the price: 50
cts.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON OR about the 23rd instant, the company
of immigrants who left Liverpool September
2nd will arrive here. They number about five
hundred and fifty.
	THE PASSENGER train on the Utah Southern
Railroad now leaves this City at 7 a. m.; ar-
rives at 2 p. m.; arrives at Provo at 10.15 a. m.
and leaves there at 10.45 a. m. This change of
time went into effect on the 10th inst.
	ELDER AMA L. Smith has been appointed to
preside over the Sandwich Island Mission in
the place of Elder F. A. Mitchell who will be
released to return home, on the arrival of Elder
Smith at Laie.
	FIVE BOXES, containing over one hundred
varieties of fruit have been sent by the Horti-
cultural Society of this city, to the Pennsylva-
nia Horticultural Society's exhibition, which
opens to-day—Sept. 15th. Our Horticultural
Society deserves congratulations for their
promptness and pains taking in endeavoring to
show of the good effects of home labor in their
line of business.
	UNDER THE supervision of Mr. Henry Grow,
the Warm Spring Bath House is undergoing a
complete change. Many improvements are
being made and additional rooms prepared for
the accommodation of visitors. Zinc, instead
of lead, is being used in painting the bath tubs
and the general wood work of the house, as the


mineral in the spring water has formerly had
the effect of turning the paint black, which, it
is believed this change will prevent.
	DURING THE month of August, 1874, twenty-
one million, four hundred and thirty-six thou-
sand, one hundred and sixty-three pounds of
freight passed over the Utah Central Railroad.
And in the same time, thirty-eight million, six
hundred and eighteen thousand, and forty-
seven pounds of freight passed over the Utah
Southern Railroad. A few years ago, when all
the freighting in this part of the country was
done with ox teams, so much bnsiness might
not have been accomplished in a whole year.
But these are fast times.
	THE FIRST instance, we believe, of ladies be-
ing called to act as jurors at a coroner’s inquest
in this Territory occurred on the 11th inst. It
appears that a young man, named Wm. Fletch-
er was killed at the Moltke mine, Little Cot-
tonwood, on the evening of the 10th; probably
through the premature explosion of a charge.
His body was brought to his father’s residence
in this city where, on the following day, an in-
quest was held. The jury, consisting of Joseph
Warburton, Mrs, Anna King and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Higgs, rendered a verdict in accordance
with the evidence and quite as creditably, so
states a daily paper, as if two of them had not
belonged to the “weaker sex.”


REPORTER'S RAMBLINGS.

	Since our last, we have been rambling in
pursuit of appetite for food to lubricate the
wheels of thought and strengthen the mus-
cles for labor. Our note of
			PROVO
is one of pleasant remembrances where we
spent a few days of unalloyed pleasure with
kindest friends of former days. Flowers,
fruits and social converse made time’s flight
almost imperceptible. On the day of our
departure we “done” the great public at-
traction, the Woolen Factory and the prac-
tical machinist, Mr. Lowery made us appre-
ciate the value of applied skill, good ma-
chinery and artistic taste in the production
of finer and more delicately tinted fabrics
than we had supposed could be produced in
the Territory. There is an extensive tailor-
ing department connected with the factory.
From here we started for the railway cars;
our way was beset with a hospitable lunch
which beguiled us while time sped on with
its accustomed regardlessness and we were
just two minutes too late for the train. O!
too late for the train!
			AT FIVE P. M.
we took the express train for American
Fork where we arrived in time to listen to
an earnest and instructive discourse by
Pres. A. O. Smoot. 
		THE NEXT MORNING,
by invitation, we accompanied friends in a
pleasant drive to Alpine, distant six miles.
The location of this thrifty little town is
peculiarly attractive, nestling, as it were,
under the brow of a mountain; with crystal
streams meandering here and there furnish-
ing mill-power, fish-ponds, churn-power, and
numerous other attractions and convenien-
ces. There is a degree of neatness and or-
der perceptible in and around Alpine that
bears resemblance to a well regulated mili-
tary post. The most pretentious edifice is
the Church which is large and commodious;
and when completed it will be an elegant
structure. Here, much, if not most of the
oratorical talent of Utah Co. was assembled
and exercised on the subject of United in-


terests, which seems the absorbing topic in
all our borders. We left Alpine with a sin-
cere desire that its hospitable inhabitants
might live long and be happy; that its fish
might increase and grow larger; and that
its strawberries might never be like our ap-
ples, wormey—here we pause to say that 
like "Utania" of the "Herald" we have a 
painful inspiration that causes us to join the
army to do battle against the dog, the poison
dog. Let them all be sent to Bergh's cor-
ral. 							S.M.K.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN New York City over 66 per cent. of all
the teachers are women. Chicago employs
93 per cent. of female teachers.
	THERE are fifty-seven lodges of Odd Fel-
lows in California, with a total membership
of 3,015.
	IT is a criminal offence in France for a
young lady to have in her possession a pho-
tograph of the Prince Imperial.
	INDEPENDENT of rent-free and tax-free
residences, the Royal Family of England
draw from the public treasury the annual
sum of £655,674. This makes the entire
cost, on account of that one family, $2,377,
870 a year in gold.
	MRS. Anna G. R. Bacon, now residing
with her son at Sherburne, N. Y., attained,
her 101st birthday July 14th. She is in
good health and is the oldest person now
living in that town. 
	ABOUT a ton of ice is used every night to
cool the air that is pumped into the House 
of Commons. The air is filtered and ren-
dered absolutely pure. 	
	DURABILITY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.
—It appears from experiments made in St.
Peersburg that, contrary to the opiniont
generally entertained, gold coin wears away
faster than that of silver. Twenty pieces
of gold, half imperials, and as much of sil-
ver copecks—coins of about the same size-
were put into new barrels, mounted like
churns, which were kept turning for four
hours continually. It was then found, on
weighing the coins, that the gold ones had
lost sixty-four grammes—the silver ones
only thirty-four; but as the gold pieces
were twenty-eight per cent. less than those
of silver, the proportion is of course greater
to that amount in favor of the latter. The
silver also contained more alloy than the
gold.
	WOMEN IN MEDICINE.—“It must not be
forgotten that a woman in the sixteenth
century lectured ably on obstetrics to large
classes of both sexes; that a woman discov-
ered the cause of uterine hemorrhages;
that a woman brought into notice the now
indispensible Peruvian bark, having first
tested its virtue; that a woman perfected a
system of artificial nourishment for babes,
which is still in use in France; that a woman
first illustrated her lectures by a manikin of
her own invention; that a woman made the
first wax preparations for the use of stu-
dents in anatomy; that a woman was the
earliest performer of the Cæsarean opera-
tion; that a woman effected the introduc-
tion of inoculation for smallpox; that a wo-
man brought to perfection a tube for the
restoration of children born in a state of
asphyxia; that a women prepared the first
illustrated medical botany, and that some
very important treatise on different themes
in medical sciences have been written by
women.—Rev. O. B. Frothingham.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"JUST THIS ONCE."

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	With smiling lip;
Thus enticed, the victim took
	The fatal sip;
And years rolled on, his doom is wed,
Death glooms above the drunkard's bed.

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	With luring voice.
Tremblingly the victim threw
	The rattling dice;
And years rolled on; the river's wave
Rolls darkly o'er a gambler's grave,

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	No one shall know,"
The victim, thoughtless, gave his soul
	To ceaseless woe;
And years rolled on: oh, fearful scene!
The death bed of a libertine.

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	"My faith I pledge."
The victim dreamed not that her deed
	Was ruin's edge; 
The years rolled on: ah, 'tis the same!
A suicidal death of shame.
						SELECTED.


HOUSEHOLD. HINTS.

	Preserving Eggs.—It is stated that in Germany
they pack eggs with the small end down, in dry
ashes, and find no trouble in keeping them.
	To Clean Paint.—Smear it over with whiting,
mixed to the consistency of common paste in warm
water. Rub the surface to be cleaned briskly,
and wash off with pure cold water. Grease spots
will, in this way, be instantly removed, as well as
other marks, and the paint will retain its beauty
and brilliancy unimpaired. 
	To Kill Flies.—It it said by one who has tried
it that a strong tea of quassia sweetened with mo-
lasses will kill flies, and has the advantage of not
being a deadly poison. It is said, too, that horses
washed with a tea of quassia will not be tormented
by flies. It can be bought at any drug store, and
is worth trying if it will abate the fly nuisance.
	Russian Cream.—One quart of milk, three eggs,
one cup of sugar, half package Cox's gelatin, va-
nilla or lemon flavoring. Dissolve gelatin in half
pint of tepid water, bring to a warm temperature
but not scalding. Beat the yelks of the eggs and
sugar together. Bring the milk to a boil, then
add the dissolved gelatin, to eggs and sugar
and let it just come to a boiling point, but no
more, as it is too stiff. Beat the whites and re-
move the mixture from the stove, and add whites
to it, also flavoring, and pour into moulds. This
requires to stand longer than wine jelly. If wan-
ted for dinner make the day before. Eat with
cream if you like.
	Cheap Vinegar.—Take a quantity of common
Irish potatoes, wash them until they are thoroughly
clean, place them in a large vessel and boil them
until done. Drain off carefully the water that they
were cooked in, straining it, if necessary, in order
to remove every particle of potato. Then put this
potato water in a jug or keg, which set near the
stove, or in some place where it will be kept warm,
and add one pound of sugar to about two and one-
half gallons of the water, some hop yeast, or a
small portion of whisky. Let it stand three or 
four weeks, and you will have excellent vinegar,
at a cost of six or seven cents per gallon; and is
said to be the only vinegar that will preserve cu-
cumbers cut fresh from the vines without the aid
of salt.
	Keeping Meals Waiting.—Little things interfere
with our comfort very much, and one small annoy-
ance is for men to delay coming to dinner when
called. Sometimes they have an hour or more of
work they will do before quitting and then they go
to the house to find the dinner cold, and the cook
discouraged. Nothing is more disheartening to a
tired woman than a table full of dirty dishes or-


namenting of the table an hour and a half later in the
day than usual. Punctuality is a virtue that men
should learn if they are in the habit of being un-
certain about coming to meals. Any woman wor-
thy the name of a housekeeper will be regular with
her meals if it lies in her power to have them
so.
	Cherry Pumpling.—Put cherries 3 inches deep
on the bottom of a porcelain-lined kettle. Throw
in sugar to sweeten, add half a teacup of water and
sprinkle over enough flour to slightly thicken the
juice. Roll out raised Graham biscuit crust—
shortened with cream— about an inch thick, which
spread quite over the cherries. Cover the kettle
tight, (shutting the cover in with a cloth spread
over the top if need be,) and cook steadily on the
top of the stove, taking care that it shall not burn,
three-quarters of an hour or so, until the crust is
well cooked. The same may be more safely
steamed if the conveniences are at hand. Another
way is to put the cherries into a nappie or pie
dish, cover with thick crust, and bake in the oven.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	HINTS FOR NURSES.—The following sensi-
ble suggestions are from the pen of Florence
Nightingale: Conciseness and decision are,
above all things necessary with the sick.
Let your thought expressed to them be
concisely and decidedly expressed. What
doubt and hesitation there may be in your
own mind must never be communicated to
theirs, not even (I would rather say espe-
cially not) in little things. Let your doubt
be to yourself, your decision to them. Peo-
ple who think outside their heads, the
whole process of whoso thought appears,
like Homer’s, in the act of secretion, who
tell everything that led them towards this
conclusion and away from that, ought never
to be with the sick.
	Irresolution is what all patients most
dread. Rather than meet this in others,
they will collect all their data, and make up
their minds for themselves. A change of
mind in others, whether it is regarding an
operation, or re-writing a letter, always in-
jures the patient more than the being called
upon to make up his mind to the most
dreaded or difficult decision. Further than
this, in very many cases, the imagination
in disease is far more active and vivid than
it is in health. If you propose to the pa-
tient change of air to one place one hour,
and to another the next, he has in each case,
immediately constituted himself in imagi-
nation the tenant of the place, gone over
the whole premises in idea, and you have
tired him as much by displacing his imagi-
tion, as if you had actually carried him over
both places.
	Above all, leave the sick room quickly
and come into it quickly, not suddenly, not
with a rush. But don’t let the patient be
wearily waiting for when you will be out of
the room or when you will be in it. Con-
ciseness and decision in your movements,as
well as your words, are necessary in the sick
room, as necessary as absence of hurry and
bustle. To possess yourself entirely will
ensure you from either failing—either loit-
ering or hurrying.
	If a patient has to see, not only to his
own but also to his nurse’s punctuality, or
perseverance, or readiness, or calmness, to
any or all of these things, he is far better
without that nurse than with her—however
valuable and handy her services may other-
wise be to him, and however incapable he
may be of rendering them to himself.
	SODA EOR TOOTH ACHE.—A correspond-
ent of the London Medical Gazette, has
discovered that soda is a remedy for the
tooth ache. He says the most pleasant and
agreeable soda will immediately or in a few
minutes cause entire cessation of pain, by
filling the tooth carefully with the powdered
carbonate, so that it may descend to the
nerve, which its solution in the saliva will
soon after allow it to do. He says he is not
aware that it will cure all cases or make a 
permanent cure, though it will relieve the 
sufferer for many hours.
	REMEDIES FOR COSTIVENESS.—Costive-
ness has an agreeable remedy in the free use
of tomatoes at meals—their seeds acting in
the way of the white mustard or figs, by
stimulating the coats of the bowels over
which they pass, in their whole state, to in-
creased action.	
	A remedy of equal efficiency, in the same
direction is cracked wheat—that is, common
white wheat grains, broken into two or
three pieces, and then boiled until it is as
soft as rice, and eaten mainly at two meals
of the day, with butter or molasses.
	PRECAUTIONS AGAINST TRICHINA.—Eat
no uncooked or half-cooked hog’s flesh.
The raw flesh of the hog, whatever its shape
or condition, whether ham, bacon, or pork,
salt or fresh, smoked or unsmoked, is liable
to contain this parasite, full of life and ac-
tivity that may work a remediless mischief
in the human body. Bologna sausage, if
pork be in it uncooked, is as dangerous as
any form of this meat. The heat that cooks
meat utterly destroys the life and mischiev-
ous power of these vermin, and no one need
fear any harm if this fact is observed.


THE YOUNG lady students at Willow Park
Seminary, Westbro, Mass., are expected to
practise Dress Reform and Physical culture,
every one being required to wear the gym-
nastic costume instead of any other. The
following statement concerning physical
culture appears in the catalogue of the in-
stitution:
	"We wish our students to have a sound
mind in a sound body, hence forty minutes
of each school-day are devoted to well-
studied Physical Exercises, upon the plan
of Dr. Dio Lewis' Light Gymnastics. We
have a thoroughly competent teacher, whose
business it is to attend punctually to teach-
ing, drilling, and otherwise carrying out
the details of this department. The Pro-
prietor, a practical physician, gives special
attention to the Boarding Department of
Physical Culture,as well as to all that tends to
give health and vigor to the students while
here, and a capability to retain the same
after leaving the school. In this depart-
ment our school has proved a perfect success.
Young ladies who, by repeated trials, have
found themselves totally unable to attend
school a term without breaking down, have
here pursued a thorough course of studies a
full year, and then left the Institution vig-
orous and healthy. The value of this fea-
ture of our school cannot be estimated.
Each student is entitled to one Turkish
Bath per week (though it is not a require-
ment); and so beneficial has the bath proved
in relieving the system of all impurities,
and consequently giving fair and healthy
complexions, that parents often wish their
daughters to have an extra bath each week at
an extra expense. We believe that this is the
only school in the world where the pupil
has weekly access to the Turkish Bath.”


﻿“GETTING BORN costs the people of the
United States $220,005,000 annually; get-
ting married, $250,000,000." Now for the
consequental expenses who has the figures?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST-BORN.

	How many families we see stricken, like
Egypt, with the loss of the first-born! Re-
mark to the proud and happy mother that
her grade of blooming children seems un-
broken, and mark the swift change on her
expressive countenance as she answers with
a fluttering sigh, “Ah, but my first is dead.”
	By no means is this always the case—God
forbid it should be!—but it is too often so,
and leads us to wonder longingly if there
be no possibility of discovering and remov-
ing the causes of such dreadful misfortune.
	Many suppose it to be owing to the young
mother’s inexperience and consequent mis-
management of the tender unit of human-
ity in early infancy—mistakes in feeding,
washing, dressing, and hours of activity
and rest—which injure the child’s health.
Doubtless there is much truth in these con-
clusions; at least we dare not deny it while
contemplating the extremes of youth and
inexperience which are allowed to embark
in this greatest beyond comparison of hu-
man enterprises—the launching of immortal
souls for the voyage of life on the ocean of
Eternity.
	But the never failing fountain of tender-
ness which the advent of a child opens in
the mother’s soul, destroys all awkwardness,
all weariness, all heedlessncss at one lave of
its pure waters. Though this instinct can-
not quite supply the place of understanding
acquired by teaching and experience, it is
in many cases an all-sufficient substitute.
The mother’s sudden and keen realization
of boundless yet happy responsibility has
been said and sung too often to need repeti-
tion; but the great pity is that, beautiful
though it be, it should be considered a per-
fect guide: and it must be so considered,
judging from the fact that none but acci-
dental preparation is ever made before as-
suming such high and holy duties.
	However, much as I lament this fact and
condemn such practice, I do not for one mo-
ment, believe that want of proper care in
infancy is the most fruitful source of death
to the first-born. I admit that inexperience,
ignorance is the cause, but I consider the
effects of that inexperience before the day
of washing and dressing to be far more
baleful than later. Were it not so, why
should the poor washerwoman’s neglected
baby, which creeps through puddles of suds
and eats all manner of improper things, live
and thrive when others pine away under
the best of care? A worm at the root of a
tree will kill it when on its remote twigs it
would not be felt.
	There are a thousand adverse circum-
stances attending the advent of the first-born,
which come not again; and it is to a few of
these I would call the attention of mothers
—present and prospective. 
	To take things in their proper order, be-
gin with the timid, ignorant young bride
entering her new life, like a lamb into un
known pasture, knowing not what may be-
fall; or like a rare plant transplanted into
alien soil, drooping, fainting, dying for a
dewdrop of comfort, a friendly shade from
the too ardent sun of criticism. The most
delicate and sensitive organization is, under
happy conditions, best qualified to endow a
new life with proper attributes of mind and
body; but it also suffers most keenly and is
most injured by whatever is unfavorable.
	With these facts in view, imagine the
situation when, perhaps before the lamb
learns that the new abode is home, or the
plant has time to take root and rise erect,
she finds herself, and in all probability un-
willingly, approaching the throne of moth-
erhood. However welcome that throne and
crown might be a few years or even a few
months hence, she now shrinks back affrigh-
ted, knowing that she is not yet able to bear
calmly the many small, contemptible, and
yet to her, in her transition state, galling,
rankling attendant annoyances.
	She knows one of her “dear friends" will
say to another “They say the —’s are al-
ready looking for an heir!” and the response
will be “Is that true? Why, when were
they married?” Just listen to the bitter
insult scarcely veiled! her cheeks burn and
her heart beats fast over the contemplation.
She knows they count months, weeks and
days, seeking her confusion, and when she
reflects that very small causes are often
sufficient to shorten the allotted time of ex-
pectation, and that on this slender thread of
chance hangs, in some degree, her reputa-
tion, is it any wonder that her already tight-
ly tensioned nerves almost snap asunder, or
that her fancy exaggerates the evils which
seem to threaten her? Or can this condition
of overwrought anxiety fail to injure the
constitution of her helpless and passive
charge?
	I knew an expectant young mother who
overheard one who should have been her
friend, wondering if she did not suppose
herself so great an invalid that she must go
to bed every day.
	She was so shocked by the unfeeling re-
mark, so disappointed in her friend, and suf-
fered her resentment to rise so high, that
she never once suffered herself to lie down
in the daytime though she trembled with
weakness or panted with weariness. Fool-
ish! to be sure, but perfectly natural; and
who dares deny that she tasked her child’s
strength as severely as her own, and by her
foolishness lessened its power to resist child-
hood’s inevitable accidents and ailments?
Oh! do any who see the earth heaped over
the cold clay of the first-born ever ask in
secret self-examinati[-]n “Have I ever in any
such way helped to dig this grave?”
	Again, the maiden enters upon her wife
and motherhood with very eroneous ideas
of life—pictures drawn from the pages of
romance and fiction. One particular mis-
chievous sentence often found in such
places is this: “And between the devoted
pair had never passed one hasty word.”
Now this world’s children are but human,
and passing indisposition may call forth a
hasty word, while accidental misunder-
standings are apt to do so. But she, fully
imbued with the beautiful fable that love
completely eradicates, instead of only im-
proving, the inferior parts of human nature,
goes to her new life determined that her
happiness shall be unclouded because that
fatal first word shall never be spoken. Im-
agine, then, her  despair when she learns
that both she and her husband fall far short
of her fair but imaginable ideal.
	The pettish, the unkind, the even cruel
word is spoken, and she, poor unsophistica-
ted dove, thinks her life a failure and her
happiness a complete wreck. She is disap-
pointed both in herself and in her husband.
She finds him less yielding now to her rea-
sonable wishes, and less careful of her ac-
tual needs than once he was to her whims
and of her pleasures. Although she might
have found these things endurable had she
expected and prepared for them, in her ig-
norance she takes it for proof that he does
not love her, and grieves accordingly.
	She finds herself less guarded both in
words and actions than she intended to be,
loses faith in her own disposition, and broods
over her self-searching and the unlooked
for difficulties in the way of happiness until
her husband sometimes loses faith in her
also; if she discover this then her cup of 
despair is indeed full.
	I think it no wonder Cain had a sulky,
suspicious discontcd disposition! Any
daughter of Eve, hurried into motherhood
before these lessons are well learned, and all
inward tumults calmed, need not wonder
if the life-forces of her child be not well
balanced, and that, escaping death, it be
peevish and illtempered for life.
	As a remedy, all young persons, male or
female, should be thoroughly taught con-
cerning the actual, everyday, homely reali-
ties and duties of life, for when this prosy
foundation is satisfactorily laid the beauties
and poesies of life are easily added. Let
each know what he or she promises when
agreeing to mingle life with another’s, and
the trials to be met, that the husband may
not expect all the “adaptation,” the fitting
ones nature to the grooves of another’s, to
come from the wife; nor the wife expect the
husband always to go singing songs to the
moon or quoting rhymes to her eyes.
	Let the wife be her own judge concerning
her own fitness and readiness to undertake
the duties of motherhood, so lovely and so
alluring to every contented, beloved wife.
	“Last, though not least,” I would recom-
mend all third parties strictly to refrain
from meddling with the affairs of the young
matrimonial voyagers until called on for
their assistance.			L. L. D.


A SCHOLAR'S WORDS.

	Dean Stanley of Westminister, in his His-
tory of the Eastern Church, Lecture I.,
says:
	There can be no question that the original
form of baptism—the verv meaning of the
word—was complete emersion in the deep
baptismal waters; and that for at least four
centuries any other form was either un-
known or regarded, unless in the case of
dangerous illness as an exceptional, almost
a monstrous case. To this form the Eastern
Church still rigidly adheres; and the most
illustrious and venerable portion of it, that
of the Byzantine Empire, absolutely repu-
diates and ignores any other mode of ad-
ministration as essentially invalid. The
Latin Church has wholly altered the mode,
and, with the two exceptions of the Cathe-
dral of Milan and the sect of the Baptists, a
few drops of water are now the Western
substitute for the three-fold plunge into the
rushing rivers or the wild baptistries of the
East.


THERE IS an inevitable law of nature, or
Providence, which makes it impossible for
us to disregard any obligation, or any act of
duty, without suffering injury in our moral,
physical, or spiritual nature. Life is given
to us as a means of education and discipline,
and not as a mere means of gratifying self
propensities, and when two people obey the
divine ordinance, and marry, they take up-
on themselves new and weighty responsi-
bilities, which it should be the future busi-
ness of their lives to fulfill. The shirking
of these obligations is not altogether the
fault of women. Pride and the love of pleas-
ure operate quite as strongly with men, and
induce them to sacrifice domestic life, the
love of home, and even of children, to what
are called social and business necessities.
But the reckoning day comes, and the sum
total, when it is figured up, shows a wasted
life, premature death, or an old age of re-
morse and discontent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	ST. LOUIS calls its great bridge "the buckle 
of the nations iron belt."
	WHEN does a man feel girlish? When
he makes his maiden speech.
	IF, "one half of the world don't know
how the other half live" —is it any of their 
business.
	A GRAPESHOT, probably fired during the
Revolution, was found the other day in the
heart of a tree twenty inches in diameter,
in Vermont, near the spot where an old
fort stood. 
	TO deny women the elective franchise be-
cause they cannot bear arms would not be
one whit more unreasonable than to deny
men the ballot because they cannot bear
children. —Grand Rapids evening Post.
	HOSTILE INDIANS are reported to have
been seen on the line of the Union Pacific
Railroad, at or near North Platte, Neb.
Horses, in that vicinity have misterously
disappeared and one man was found dead
with a bullet hole in his back.
	MRS. CYNTHIA Leonard of Chicago heads
an organization of women known as the 
"Good Samaritans," whose object is to aid
struggling women and prevent as far as pos-
sible their falling into vice. Success attend
their worth understakings.
	A CURIOUS literary work has been under-
taken by an English gentleman, under a 
commission from the trustees of the British
Museum. It is a reproduction of the title
page of every book entered at Stationers'
Hall, London, since the beginning of the
reign of Henry the Eighth.
	THE Inaugural Meeting of the Driving
Park Association, was marked by the great-
est trotting event ever known. On the sec-
ond day, Aug. 12, Goldsmith Maid trotted a
mile squarely in 2.14¾, the fastest time on
record. This is a wonderful performance
and eclipses the Maid's previous efforts—
while Bonner's celebrated Dexter, and all
other fast trotters are thrown completely in
the shade.
	AT the Free Training School for Women
in New York, a class is to be organized for
ladies who will be charged a nominal fee,
and they will be instructed in the art of
judicious purchase of provisions and house-
hold goods. In the free cooking class, just
inaugurated, girls will be taught scientific
other teachers. By-and-bye it is the inten-
tion to open a restaurant in the building, by
which the institution may be made self-
supporting. 
	INTELLECT OF WOMEN.—The Dean of
Chester recently made a speech in which he
quoted the opinion of the examiner of Lat-
in at the collegiate schools to the effect that,
comparing the girls with the boys who had
been studying during the same time, he
would give a verdict decidedly in favor of
the girls. The tendency of modern inquiry
is to show conclusively that the long accep-
ted theory that sex affect the mind, and
that men are inherently more intellectual
than women, is erroneous. when we give
women the same opportunities in modern
society that we give men, in the way of
industry and education, what is called the
Woman Question will settle itself." —N.Y.
Herald.
	RUDIMENTS OF HORSE BREAKING.—Miss
Middy Morgan is good authority on training
colds, and this is the way she puts it: The
secret of success in breaking young horses
is to commence early, to give frequent,
short lessons, to repeat each lesson until it
is comprehended, and never to attempt to 
teach two or more lessons at one time. De-
cide which you want to do, then perfect the
animal in one or the other, and the first les-
son having been acquired, the second will 
be attained without trouble. The routine
of horse-breaking, as practiced in the Brit-
ish Isles, is, first make the horse mouth's
and give him a good carriage. This is ef-
fected by using a heavy, smooth mouthing
snaffle, buckling the lower reins to the side
of his roller, and then permitting the pupil
to remain loose in a roomy box stall, where
he can move about and play with his bit.
This will effect more in a shorter time than
any other method. As soon as the colt's 
mouth has become fine, but not till then, he
may be mounted. As carrying a weight on
his back is quite new to the young horse, care
should be had not to permit him to travel fast-
er than a walk until his action has become easy
and free from nervousness. Even then, for
many weeks, he should not be allowed to do
more than trot gently on level ground, and
never be galloped unless on springy turf.
Too deep a soil causes a horse to labor, if
frequently galloped on such his action be-
comes higher and less rapid than it other-
wise would have been.


DIVERSIONS.

	MINISTERS of the interior—The cook and
the doctor. 
	TWO things that are weakened by length-
ening—Steamships and sermons.
	THE St. Louis bridge is a grand work,
but is not without a pier.
	THE latest instance of originality in a
marriage announcement is the following:—
"No cards, no cake, no fuss." 
	THE latest thing in hats—Heads. 
	ON a week day you buy your music by
the sheet. On Sundays you can have it by
the choir.
	AT a hotel table, one boarder said to his
neighbor: "This must be a healthy place
for chickens." "Why?" asked the other.
"Because I've never seen any dead ones
hereabouts."
	IN the hearing of an Irish case for an as-
sault and battery, a counsel, while cross-ex-
amining one of the witnesses, asked him
what they had at the first place they stop-
ped. "Four glasses of ale." What next?"
"Two glasses of whiskey." "What next?'
"One glass of brandy." "What next?"
"A fight."
	DR. Hill, an Edinburgh professor of the
last century, met, in the suburbs of the city,
a man who was generally regarded as an
imbecile. Somewhat irritated by the in-
trusion on the privacy of his walk, Dr. Hill
said to him, "How long, Tom, can one live
without brains?" "I dinna ken," answered
Tom; "how long has ye lived yerself?"
	I SUPPOSE if thare want a solitary human
being on the face ov the earth, the sun 
would still rise in the east and set in the
west, the volkanoes would ockasionally
vomit fire, and Niagara would keep on roar-
ing, but thare's lots ov pholks who don't
think so.—Josh Billings.
	THE head of the family is about to eat an
apple. Mother—"Say, father, give us a
piece." Daughter—"Oh, father, give me a
piece." Son—"O, father, I want a piece."
Niece—"Won't you please to give me a
piece, too?" Father (disgusted)— "Here,


the rest of you take the apple and give me
a piece.”
	A CERTAIN young lady unguardedly vol-
unteered the remark in a family circle, that
“when gentlemen eat warm maple sugar it
gets into their mustaches and makes them
scratchy.” Her father is curious to know
how she found it out.


MRS. WILKINSON
	Is now constantly receiving her Fall Stock of
				 MILLINERY,
Consisting of all the New Styles of Ladies' Hats and
	Bonnets, Velvets, Flowers, Feathers, Ribbons,
		Silks, Laces, etc., together with a fine as-
			sortment of Ladies' White Wear,
Underwear, Children's Caps, Cloaks, Hand-made Woolen
				    Goods, etc.

				H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
			Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three 
				storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., ½ BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
			DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years  experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyousones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12X16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-			 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	 48 00
	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.					

				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 30, 1874.		 NO. 9.﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES

	AN ENGLISH aeronaut complains that his
baloon was fired at not less than three times
during a recent ascent from London, and of-
fers £100 reward for the apprehension of the
parties who fired. 
	THE WOMEN of Iowa have resolved to
lend their influence to have no man elected
to office who does not support the cause of
Woman Suffrage. We think this is sensible
and consistent and hope the ladies of that
State will persevere until they possess the
right to vote equally with the men.
	MRS. CELIA Burleigh, in a recent letter to
the "Woman's Journal," contradicts the re-
port that she is homeless and her life nearly
closed with incurable consumption. We
feel pleased to thus learn that the paragraph
in our last issue concerning her was without
foundation.
	BRET HARTE'S works are reported to
command a higher price than those of any
other writer of the day. His latest story,
"John Oakhurst," was written in one night,
for which he received five hundred dollars.
And yet he can keep no money by him and
is a poor man. Ah! "It is not what we earn
but what we keep that makes us rich."
	WITH ALL the deaths that are daily oc-
curring from diseases and accidents, it seems
that some people cannot be satisfied, but
want themselves to have a hand in the
work of destruction. A man named Hed-
ges shot and killed another by the name of
Golden at Beaver city lately, and Golden
tried as hard but not as successfully to kill
Hedges.
	AT AN election recently held in Alameda
Co., California, to decide the question of
granting liquor license under the "local op-
tion" law, Miss Sallie Hart and other ladies
interested, erected a tent and raised upon it
the American flag. Here they engaged in
the distribution of temperance tickets, when
a mob of infuriated Germans tore down the
flag, attacked the tent and grossly insulted
the ladies. We learn the above from an ex-
change, and the editor sensibly comments
upon the circumstance in the following lan-
guage:—"Are American women not to be
allowed to use so peaceful and quiet a means
of aiding the temperance reform? Not only
deprived of a vote, but they must not even
distribute tickets to legal voters. Said vo-
ters could not be forced to accept or use the
tickets, but if they could be induced to do
so, the voters had certainly a right to vote
as they pleased. Even if they urged the
matter, is there more harm in such elec-
tioneering than by the arguments of whis-
key and money?” 
	STEAM HAS been utilized in many ways
and to a wonderful degree for promoting the
comfort and power of man; and now if the
following be true, there is reason to hope
that it may, in time, do away with the un-
wholesome and disagreeable smoke that
now causes so many localities to be both un-
healthy and unpleasant to work or live in.
"The proprietors of the Cleveland Herald
have recently applied an apparatus to their
office chimney which is claimed to be a per-
fect preventative of smoke and a great saver
of fuel. The discovery which the Herald
thinks a very valuable one, was purely acci-
dental. A mechanic of that city was try-
ing to secure a better draft for a sluggish
fire, and the thought occured to him after
other devices had failed, to try the effects
of steam. A small pipe was made to con-
duct the "dry steam" from the top of the
boiler to the upper part of the furnace,
where it entered in two small jets, striking
downward on the burning fuel. No sooner
was the steam injected into the furnace than
the sluggish, smoky fire sprang into a clear,
bright yellowish and intensely hot flame,
filling the whole furnace with a loud roar.
The man found that he had not only secured
a strong draft, but something much more
important, a smokeless fire. As an experi-
ment the apparatus was attached to the fur-
nace of the Herald engine, which was con-
verted from a neighborhood nuisance of
smoke and soot into a smokeless flue.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Ellen T. Miller of New York, who
died recently, in her will left some $11,
500 to the various benevolent boards of
the Presbyterian Church.
	MISS Laura Redding, "Howard Glyndon"
of the New York mail, was born a deaf
mute, but can now articulate quite dis-
tinctly and not unpleasantly. 
	MRS. H. S. Dickinson, of Holyoke, Mass., 
who has been very successful in her instruc-
tions to young Chinese students, will take
into her family some of the number who
arrived from China early in Septem-
ber.
	MRS. Lindsay, a benevolent Christian
lady, has collected money and books for the
Jewish school at Tangiers. She has seen 
the sad situation of the Jewish children in
that African city, pittied them, and conclud-
ed to assist them. Her efforts have been
crowned with good success.
	MISS Fanny Townsley of Shelburne Falls,
Mass., who has been teaching and doing
missionary work during the last year at
Shelburne Falls, has been engaged to take
charge of the Academy at Wilmington, Vt.
Miss Townsley is an occasional contributor
to Harper's Weekly and other journals.
	LADY Dufferin, wife of the Governor
General of Canada, who accompanied her
husband in his recent visit to the United
States, is much younger than he, and is ev-
idently a lady of great conversational pow-
ers. She has the reputation of poetical
genius, and is said to be descended from
Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (Florence
Percy), is the author of "Rock Me to Sleep
Mother." The poem was written by her
while a factory girl in Maine, upon a sheet
of coarse brown writing-paper in which she
had brought her noon lunch, and while
waiting for the hour to recommence her 
labor. 
	MISS Charlotte W. Ford, a graduate of a
New York medical college and of Mt. Hol-
yoke Seminary, is about to commence prac-
tice in Springfield, Mass. She will be asso-
ciated with Dr. Sarah J. Williams, whose
office practice has increased to the extent 
of occupying her full time, and rendering
necessary an assistant physician.
	MISS Sallie Hooper, over eighty years old,
a native of Northfield, Long Island, N. Y.,
has been committed to the county poor-
house under peculiar circumstances. She
was the owner of a house and lot at Long
Neck, which she agreed to deed to a Mrs.
Ann Eliza Lake and her husband, on con-
dition that they should maintain and take
care of her during her life. The arrange-
ment was made, and she went to reside
with the Lakes, but her life was made so
uncomfortable that she was soon obliged to
leave. She demanded the return of her
property, which was refused. It is probable
that her case will be taken up by the au-
thorities. 
	MISS Jane Ainslie, who died recently in
Edinburgh, was the originator of "The
Flower Mission" in Glasgow. So long as
her strength permitted she personally su-
pervised the mission, carrying baskets full
of bouquets to the Infirmary, where smiles
and words of welcome always awaited her.
When she could no longer pay these visits,
in her sick room, her hands and thoughts
were ever busy in the work. A change to
Grantown in the early part of the summer
was deemed advisable. There her thoughts
were still for the sick and suffering. Al-
most to the last day of her existence she
occupied herself, in the intervals of pain, 
with making small wire baskets to hold ferns
for the patients in the Infirmary. 
	MRS. Susanna Moodie writes to the Tor-
onto "Globe" from Lakefield, Ontario, to 
correct some of the statements published
regarding her sister, the late Miss Agnes
Strickland, the authoress of the histories of
the "Queens of England" and the "Queens
of Scotland." Miss Strickland, she says,
was born in the county of Kent, England,
July 19, 1796. Early in life she showed a
love for history, and soon made herself well
acquainted with the historical works and
the English classics in her father's well-
filled library. She frequently amused and
instructed her brothers and sisters by re-
peating passages from the works she had
read, and during her father's illness read to
him the political events of the day.


A GREAT artist of Boston, who excels in
painting animals, saw as he was passing
through one of the rural towns of Massa-
chusetts a very animated looking bull.
Thinking he would like to take him on can-
vas, he got permission of the owner, an
honest old farmer, and in due time produced
an excellent likeness of the bull which he
sold for $200. On seeing the farmer soon
after, he told him he had sold the picture
of the bull for $200. "Good gracious!" said
the old man; "Why, I would have sold him,
the bull, for less than that."


A BOOKBINDER had a book brought him
to rebind. After the job was finished, he
made the following entry in his day-book,
"To repairing the 'Way to heaven,' twenty-
five cents!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
		THE NIGHT STORM.

The sun has set behind the western hills,
	And lurid clouds hang o’er the sky;
While sighing winds in murmurs strangely sweet,
	Are whispering that a storm is nigh.

The fast approaching clouds still swifter fly,
	And shroud-like hide the stars from sight;
The moon-beams struggle to be seen a while,
	But soon are hid in deepest night.

Hark! now the distant thunders roll along,
	As peal on peal they nearer sound;
And flashes quicker in succession come,
	And light the darkness all around.

The clouds pour forth on earth their watery stores,
	And vivid tongues of flame still flash;
While thunders, louder, quicker than before,
	Come down with deaf'ning, frightful crash.

Ah! now the leaden clouds fly fast away,
	As if pursuing some retreating foe;
The angry tumult of the storm is past,
	And silence reigns above, below.

The sobbing wind at last is hushed to sleep;
	The moon's pale rays more radiant seem;
The stars are peeping through the rifted clouds,
	And earth and flowers with frangrance teem.

O! Would that thus the storms of life could pass;
	Each dark'ning cloud roll from my sky,
And leave my soul in brighter glow to shine,
	And make me fitter, after each, to die.
									J. E. D.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 29, 1874.


R. S. REPORTS.

	An organization of the young ladies of
Grantsville, Tooele Co., was formed on Thurs-
day, Sep. 17th, at a meeting in that place,
several sisters from this city being present.
The names of the officers of the association
are as follows:
		Miss Rachel Hale, President,
		Miss Harriet C. Bates,	}
		Mrs. Wilda McBride,	}
		Miss Augusta Elison,	}
		  "	Matilda Anderson,	}Counselors.
		  "	Mary A. Hunter,	}		  " 	Lena Lee,			}
		  "	Bertha Sabins, Secretary;
		  "	Mary Worthington, Ass. Secretary.
	The names of seventy-two young ladies
were entered as members of the society;
and Miss Eliza R. Snow remarks concerning
them that a finer group of girls she has never
seen.


SKETCHES.

	In looking over my Journal of 1851, I am
reminded of how my days were spent on
the Tupual Island in the South Pacific
Ocean.
	In the morning I taught the Island child-
ren in the Tahitain tongue; dismissed them
and taught my own and the "half breeds"
in the common branches of the English lan-
guage. A few hours in the afternoon, I
spent in reading, writing and sewing.
	On the 8th of October, Conference time
at Salt Lake, a party of us, nineteen in num-
ber, went for a pleasure excursion to some
small islands called Notus, four in a group.
We landed on the largest, found cocoa nuts,
the men caught fish, made an oven and
cooked food of which we ate heartily
	The island had a delightful appearance,
the green trees—chiefly tamanah and cocoa-
nut, both valuable—contrasting beautifully
with the fine, white sand on the beach. I
walked round it on the reef and picked up
small shells and some fine specimens of cor-
al.
	The men threw up a sort of shelter with
the branches of trees, under which we
spread our bedding and slept comfortably
through the night. The children, (a motly
group, white, half-breeds and full natives,)
seemed all the while delighted. They
strolled about the island, swung on the
branches of the trees and carroled like the
birds. We sailed back with a fair breeze
the next day.
	On the 13th, Captain Johnson's vessel ar-
rived from Tahiti bringing one letter from
Brother Dunn, informing us that he had re-
ceived a letter from Salt Lake, dated more
than a year previous, containing news of
the death of Bishop Whitney and father
Sessions, two good men. I thought if they
knew in Salt Lake how we longed for news
from there, they would neither eat or sleep
until they had a package of letters ready to
send us, assuring us that we were remem-
bered in their prayers. But writing to ab-
sent friends is a duty which is ofter neg-
lected.
	At this time nearly all the people on the
island were preparing to accompany "Pari-
ta" on his mission to Ravaivai. This caused
a little excitement, something to think
about. I held a meeting with the native
sisters and had a little address written,
which Brother Grouard translated into Tahi-
tian for me. They all admired it very
much. I could read well in Tahitian, and
read the 29th chapter of Isaiah which Ellen
explained to them, about the coming forth
of the Book of Mormon. One woman en-
quired if the Nephites were "man taata
papa?"—(Europeans.)—I told her they were
the forefathers of the Tahitians. She
seemed much pleased and expressed a de-
sire to know more about the "Book." That
agrees with a tradition the Islanders have,
that their ancestors came from a great Is-
land to which they could never find an
end.
	On the 20th of October, I wrote in my
journal as follows:
	Three schooners are preparing to leave
Tubuai. Captain Johnson with the "Miri-
ama," the King's vessel, "Messenger" and
the Mormon "Praivai," Captain Grouard.
Our three eldest daughters will go. They
can speak the language and will be useful.
The younger one will remain with her aunt
Crosby. Captain Johnson will take his lit-
tle step daughter, Mary Cane, whom we
have had in our family seven months. It
will grieve Frances to part with her she has
been under her special care, so submissive
and amiable. She is a dear little girl six
years old, born on Toubuai, Her father
was an Irish merchant, her mother a half
white woman. Her father (Mr. Cane) died
and was burried on this island. The na-
tives have a superstition that they must
never pluck fruit growing near a grave.
With a reverent air, silent and thoughtful,
Mary will walk about the grave of her fa-
ther, seeming more like a woman than a
child, regarding the spot as very sacred.
Captain Johnson is a sensible well bred man,
very fond of Mary; her mother is a woman
of very cleanly habits; so the child must
have daily ablutions and every article of
clothing changed. They have made our
daughter many nice presents and commend-
ed her highly for the improvements made
in their little girl.
	Before we were ready to sail for Raivai-
vai, we received a visit from the King of
that island, who informed us that the Mis-
sion House newly erected there, had been
blown down by a hurricane. I remarked
that this seemed to me a sign that we should
not go there to remain long. The King was
very anxious that we should go; said he be-
lieved the whole of his people would re-
ceive the Gospel.
	We sailed on the 27th and reached the
island at 10 o'clock the next morning.
The island of Raivaivai is more mountain-
ous than Toubuai. The small town where
we landed presented a lively appearance
from the sea. The house of worship resem-
bled a city hotel; white walls with green
window blinds, a long row of trees growing
in front—beautiful trees with hanging fo-
liage like the pine but much finer.
	The natives who accompanied us dressed
themselves very neatly to go on shore. The
Queen of Tubuai wore a bonnet made on
her own island, from the stalk of the arrow
root, trimming of the same. It looked
nice enough for any queen to wear. She
had fine kid shoes in her chest, but would
not wear them as she was certain they would
make her walk clumsily. Her dress fell
below her feet, and she walked very majes-
tically from the landing into the village.
	No place appeared thoroughly clean ex-
cept the "Fare bare ra," (house of prayer.)
A stone pavement was laid on all sides of
that and great pains taken to keep all clean
about it. The work inside displayed taste
and ingenuity, seats made in the form of
sofas, covered with carved work.
	The English church at first refused to let
their house of worship to preach in, but the
King interposed and it was obtained. Bro.
Pratt preached the first Mormon sermon
there. Some were pleased, others looked
demure. After the service a consultation
was held to decide whether "Parita" should
remain. Spirited speeches were made on
both sides. The speech of one old chief who
had been baptized in the morning made us
laugh. He wanted new talk, was tired of
the old which had become like old food, not
good, smelt bad. "Parita" must stay and
teach the new words. The Tubuains said he
should not stay where he was not wanted;
so said all the white men. But it was vo-
ted that he should remain. He commended
his family to the care of the faithful ones
who had accompanied us, and said that God
should bless them. They shed a profusion
of tears and promised that we should want
for nothing they could provide; which
promise was faithfully kept.
	We sailed with them, the following day,
for Tubuai.
	Beaver,					L. B. P.


HOW TO PUT CHILDREN TO BED.

	NOT with reproof for any of that day's
sins of omission or commission. Take any
time but bed-time for that. If you ever
heard a little creature sighing or sobbing in
its sleep, you could never do this. Seal
their closing eyelids with a kiss and a bless-
ing. The time will come when, all too soon,
they will lay their heads upon their pillows
lacking both. Let them then, at least, have
this sweet memory of a happy childhood,
of which no future sorrow or trouble can rob
them. Give them their rosy youth. Nor
need this involve wild license. The judi-
cious parent will not so mistake my mean-
ing. If you have ever met the man, or the
woman, whose eyes have suddenly filled
when a little child has crept trustingly to its
mother's breast, you may have seen one in
whose childhood's home "Dignity" and "Se-
verity" stood where love and pity should
have been. Too much indulgence has ruined
thousands of children; too much love, not
one.—FANNY FERN.


﻿IT is estimated that the projected tunnel
beneath the English channel could be dri-
ven and completely fitted up in five or six
years, and at a cost of from $40,000,000 to
$50,000,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHY, AH! WHY.

     BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We know that modern society looks down
upon us; we are fully aware that they con-
sider us outcasts from their limits; women
destitute of morality and virtue, and totally
ignorant on all subjects connected with re-
finement of feeling and delicacy of senti-
ment; and why? Simply because they do
not understand us. How can they fathom
the abyss of our hearts? How read our
history, or rightly interpret our motives or
our actions?
	It is not my intention at the present time
to enter into details, or undertake to sub-
stantiate Polygamy, (however capable I may
consider myself of doing so,) it would occu-
py too much space in these columns; but my
idea is, to show that it is pure, virtuous and
holy women that sustain Polygamy. Wo-
men entitled to all the respect due them
as wives, mothers, sisters and friends;
brave, true-hearted and much-enduring.
Not in any sense of the word similar to the
class referred to by the writer who does us
such great honor, (in his opinion,) when he
says, “Polygamy makes comparatively re-
spectable women, of girls who might other-
wise have been prostitutes.” The reason
why he thinks that is because he don’t
know anything about it; if he did he would
know that such girls “as might otherwise
have been prostitutes,” would not live in
Polygamy, if by any mischance or inapti-
tude of places they should ever get into it,
they would very soon tire of it, and eventu-
ally, heedless of all promises, covenants or
ceremonies, free themselves, as many have
done; not because they were starved or mis-
treated, but because they did not possess
goodness, purity, integrity and principle
enough to endure unto the end.
	I cannot bear to hear those women, who
have in all purity of heart and soul, helped
to establish this holy order, instituted by
divine revelation, spoken reproachfully of,
without lifting my voice to attest to their
truthfulness, earnest sincerity and virtue.
And I feel myself justified in saying, no
woman who is not innately pure and strictly
virtuous and moral, will live in Polygamy
any length of time.
	Who were the women who first stepped
forth to herald in this unpopular, “unchris-
tianized and uncivilized principle, this
species of barbarism?” (so called.) They
were most of them daughters of the Puri-
tans, girls born, reared and educated in
New England; brought up to look with hor-
ror upon any breach of decorum or propri-
ety; girls possessed of natural intelligence
and educational attainments sufficient to
qualify them for “polite society” in common
parlance. Think you with their unsullied
reputation, their unblemished lives, their
purity of training, they were not each one
of them, individually and identically a
heroine? And if their names are not writ-
ten in history and transmitted to posterity,
they ought to be engraven imperishably in
the memory of every Latter-day Saint.
	They stood forth as it were alone, fearless
for the truth, none to defend or acknowl-
edge them. They laid all upon the altar
of their faith, gave all to their religion.
They were despised, evil spoken of, and
sneered at on every hand. Think you they
would do this from impure and ignoble
motives? and yet quite self-helpful, self-
denying, with no sweet incense of flattery
or admiration, no happy despotism of love,
only the safe shadow, the plain, straight,
level road of duty, and a consciousness of
[next column]
right; the constant cutting down and root-
ing up, of all those vain and selfish longings,
which grow sooner or later into bitterness
and disappointment; with only the compan-
ionship of sweet and noble thoughts of high
and holy tendencies, of the sublimity of
a grand culminating era in human progress,
they lived and struggled heroically on.
	Think you they could have been influ-
enced to live such lives of self-sacrifice, to
have the reproaches, slanders and cruelties,
of those they held dear and sacred, if the
Lord had not helped, guided and inspired
them by His Holy Spirit? If they had not
been praying women? And after more
than thirty years of patient endurance, hav-
ing passed through varieties of trials, ex-
posure and calumny, they are awarded this
fitting encomium of praise, "they might
otherwise have been prostitutes," and the
writer says, the Mormons claim for Polyga-
my this merit. Thank God there is another
Judge, a higher court, a Supreme Tribunal.
	I know that we are looked upon as weak-
minded and half-witted if we do not receive
a certain amount of attention from a man;
and the conclusion is immediately drawn
(by our neighbors at least) that our husbands
do not love us, and consequently, we being
unnoticed, unloved and unattended, ought
to drop out of existence.
	Is there then nothing worth living for,
but to be petted, humored and caressed, by
a man? That is all very well as far as it goes,
but that man is the only thing in existence
worth living for I fail to see. All honor and
reverence to good men; but they and their
attentions are not the only sources of hap-
piness on the earth, and need not fill up
every thought of woman. And when men
see that women can exist without their be
ing constantly at hand, that they can
learn to be self-reliant or depend upon
each other for more or less happiness, it
will perhaps take a little of the conceit out
of some of them.
	To my mind one great fault in “Wood-
hull’s Lecture” here, was, that while pro-
fessing to hold forth for Women’s Rights,
she spoke so disparageingly of the women
themselves; classing them all together as
weak, ignorant, vain and silly, slaves to
dress, to fashion and to men, making no
exception, unless, indeed, herself.
	I believe in women, especially thinking
women. Are we human beings, rational
and accountable, and yet permit to lie dor-
mant the highest faculty of our nature—
thought? Alas we see it every day! But
there is a day dawning when we will be
better understood, if not appreciated; and
every woman in Utah, who has the interest
of her sex at heart, should exert her utmost
influence to extend the circulation of the
EXPONENT;for wherever it finds its way,into
whatever home, village or town it pene-
trates there will thought be awakened,
there will woman begin to feel and under-
stand that there is something elevating
and inspiring, worth living for, worthy of
attainment, even though their husbands do
not pet them, and spend their whole time
and talents, and exhaust the whole Eng-
lish vocabulary in caressing them. And
though we may be held in ignominy and
disgrace by modern society, and its presi-
ding genius, “Mrs, Gundy,” or worse still ac-
cording to her verdict, be that poorest of all
creatures, “an unloved wife,” yet if we
live an unsullied life, if our reputation in
the sight of heaven is spotless, if we pos-
sess that best of all bosom-companions, a
clear conscience, we invest ourselves with
dignity and self-respect, and we will eventu-
ally receive all that our hearts most crave,
[next column]
most long for, and most desire, even a ful-
ness of glory. Every weakness we over-
come, every temptation we gain victory
over, brings us nearer perfection. Why, ah
why, then should we shrink from trials,
when we know they are only so many sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path? Let us not fal-
ter by the wayside but, stimulating,
strengthening, encouraging and sympathiz-
ing with each other, continue to cultivate
and improve our reasoning and reflecting
faculties, not only to add to our happiness
here, but our eternal felicity hereafter.
That it may not be said of any of us, in that
day when all must give an account, that we
neglected to improve the talent committed
to our care.
	How to live, how to treat one another,
and how to trust in God in matters beyond
our mortal comprehension, these are lessons
for us to learn; our talents are given us to
improve till our Lord comes, and he or she
that neglects,—who shall say to such “Not
Guilty?"
	Salt Lake City, 1874.


FLOWERS OF THOUGHT.

	FORGIVENESS is the odor of sweet flowers
when trampled upon.

	LABOR for the other life that awaits thee,
and consider the time it must endure.

	YOU have not fulfilled every duty unless
you have fulfilled that of being pleasant.
	
	NEVER despise humble services; when
large ships run aground, little boats may
pull them off.

	GREAT power and natural gifts do not
bring privilege to the possessor so much as
they bring duties.

	BE noble, and the nobleness that lives in
other men, sleeping but never dead, will
rise in majesty to meet your own.

	If you would be pungent, be brief; for it
is with words as with sunbeams—the more
they are condensed the deeper they burn.

	THE mind has a certain vegetative pow-
er, which cannot be wholly idle. If it is
not laid out, and cultivated into a beautiful
garden, it will of itself shoot up in weeds
and flowers of a wild growth.

	NO doubt the most rational and agreeable
way of keeping up social intercourse, is to
see one's friends frequently, but in small
numbers; indeed it is an old-fashioned max-
im which directs, "for thinking, one; for
conversation, two, no more; for argument,
three; for social pleasure, five; for trouble, a
house full.

	THE cultivation of friendship should
never be neglected. It lifts us out of the
narrow sphere of "self," makes us more tol-
erant of the feelings of others, and opens a
wide field for many a good word and deed;
for what is friendship but a strong and noble
sympathy, that calls for the exercise of all
the best qualities of the human heart, and
whilst insensibly elevating our own charac-
ters, leads us to strive to add to the joys and
lessen the sorrows of others?


AMONG original wills may certainly be
reckoned that of Daniel Martinett, an offi-
cer in the East India Company's service.
Dying very poor, this singular fellow be-
queathed his debts to the Government of
Bengal, who generously accepted the
equivocal legacy. We hardly know wheth-
er to admire more the sangfroid of the tes-
tator or the bonhomme of the legatee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
       CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT 30, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Five hundred immigrants arrived in Og-
den on Wednesday the 23rd ult........Mr.
Denton has been giving a course of scien-
tific lectures on geology in this city......
Miss Mary J. Times, 17 years old, suicided
at Portage, Box Elder Co., on the 23rd ult.
.......Machinery for developing the bed of
fuel at the Crismon coal mine, Coalville, is
being fitted......A co-operative tannery is
connected with the United Order at Farm-
ington......A shoemaker pays twenty-five
dollars here for assaulting the wife of a tai-
lor......A careless man while shooting black-
birds with a shot gun, shot a little boy in
the Fourth Ward the other day, fortunately
with no very serious results.
			LITERARY.
	"Women and Work" will be the title of
a newspaper about to be started by Emily
Faithful......Two lectures designed to be
delivered before lyceums have been pre-
pared by Miss Hulda B. Loud of Rockland,
Mass.......This year there are one hundred
and twenty-five members in the freshman
class at Cornell University......New York
city has two thousand three hundred and
fifty-three school teachers, ninety-four thou-
sand scholars and expends three million
six hundred and eighty-three dollars this
year in the cause of education......Mrs. Har-
ding is collecting materials for a new novel
.......Fanny Aikin—Korthright has a new
book entitled "A little lower than the an-
gels."
			ARTISTIC.	
	At Greenbush a Philharmonic Society
has been organized.....The collection of
paintings lent to the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, by the Duke of Montpensier, have ar-
rived in Boston.......Walton’s collection of
paintings, now on exhibition in the Burling-
ton Gallery, consists of two groups—one of
scenes in Egypt and Arabia, the other views
of Alpine scenery.....The famous collection
of pictures by the old masters, formed by
the late Mr. Alexander Barker, of Piccadilly,
was recently sold.....Great improvements
are being made in England, in the design
and artistic execution of high-class domestic
furniture......George Browning, F. R. H. S.,
lectures on art-revival in Italy.
			PERSONAL.
	Prince Leopold, youngest son of Queen
Victoria, delivered a speech in English,
French and Italian on entering the Masonic
fraternity......The Prince of Wales acts tem-
porarily as Grand Master of the Free Masons
in England, in place of the Marquis of Ripon
who resigned......Victoria C. Woodhull and
Tennie C. Claflin are said to have attracted
much attention in Paris, being regarded as
typical American ladies......Rev. Phoebe A.
Hanniford is pastor of the first Universalist
Church in Jersey City......Charles E. Court-
ney, champion oarsman of New York, will
establish a rowing school at Auburn.....Jean
Louis Hamon, the German artist, is dead.
So also is Arnold Herrman Lossow, German
sculptor.
			GENERAL.	
	Valparaiso had an earthquake lately......
Thirteen thousand cotton operatives at Bol-
ton, England, are preparing for a strike......
The usual dividends of the four leading
railroads of England have been cut down
two or three million dollars this season.....
According to an order lately given, all for-
eign priests, monks and nuns will be expelled
from Prussia......Trouble is anticipated be-
tween the whites and blacks of Jamaica.....
A severe shock of earthquake was recently
[next column]
felt at Yokahama......Bush fires have been
raging for some time in Templeton, Canada,
and much loss of property will be the re-
sult......A great inundation is announced
from Barreiros.....Incendiaries are becom-
ing troublesome at Buffalo......There are
thirty-eight acknowledged women preach-
ers in the United States......The Auburn,
New York, prison has one thousand one
hundred and eighty-four inmates at present
......The home-rule hat which has no crown
is the latest Irish fashion.....The rite of
confirmation was administered to two hun-
dred children at Albany on a recent Sunday
.......St. Louis has erected a monument in
honor of General Nathaniel Lyon......One
steamer lately took four thousand watemel-
ons into Boston......A triple eruption of
Mount Etna was lately very lively, but is
now over and the lava has ceased to flow
......Massachusetts has a law that one dozen
eggs shall weigh one pound and a half......
Silk culture along the Pacific coast is becom-
ing a fixed interest.....The flouring mills at
Sublett, Ill., were lately burned to the
ground by lightning......New York has a
female bill-poster who is said to be doing an
extensive business......Not one-fifth of the
land of Illinois, it is said, is yet under cul-
tivation......Texas has not a single Univer-
salist church......The Jews of Moldavia
and Ukraine make sugar of honey which is
said to be as white as snow.


THE HARD TIMES.

	Every body knows that the times are now
dull—duller than usual in all parts of the
country and all over the world. Stingy men
grumble, weak ones whine, short-sighted peo-
ple fret and long-tongued ones complain over
the present dull, hard times. And still, seem-
ingly, few persons, so very few that among the
masses they are scarcely noticable, are willing
to assist in creating reforms calculated to bring
forth brighter days.
	Every one must be fashionably attired, every
table must be spread with some rich danties,
every house elaborately furnished.
	To watch the course of the fashionable world,
puts one in mind of a pig which concludes to
go through a gate-way at all hazards, though
a boy stands by with a big stick, ready to strike
it as it approaches. The pig intent on the pur-
pose in view, may fail to see the danger it is in
until the first blow is dealt, whack over its
head. Then it gives a little grunt and starts
backward a few steps, but nothing daunted,
rushes forward again with more force than be-
fore and a more positive determination to have
its own way. When the second blow from the
stick in the boy's hand comes, dealt with more
vigor than the former, the pig is better pre-
pared for it, and stands his grounds firmly, only
rearing its nose upwards to utter a loud and pro-


longed squeal. Then lowering its head it push-
es forward persistently and passes the boy, being 
too ignorant to regard the fact that in so doing,
it runs away from and looses its supper.
	Notwithstanding the hints which are drop-
ped occasionly here and there, and which if
heeded might avert the ruinous results which
are staring people in the face, they rush for-
ward to evident financial destruction. There
is only here and there a woman now-a-days,
who has the courage to say "I will be consist-
ent no matter how others do or what they
think of me," and stand by these assertions.
And the young lady who is able to move in
fashionable society and dares to dress and act
in conformity with comfort, health and ease,
deserves to have the first prize awarded her at
any fair, and free passes to concerts and thea-
tres.


WHAT IS HAPPINESS.

	We each of us have our own ideas of what
would make us fully happy, and it is right and
proper that we should; for as we are not all
constituted alike, we are scarcely competent to
measure each other's capacity for enjoyment.
When we look around us and reflect that how-
ever much people may possess, however fortu-
nate they may seem, whatever comforts, luxu-
ries, and elegancies they may gather around
them, in the midst of it all there is a lack of
true happiness, we naturally enough turn our
thoughts inward, and ask our own hearts, what
is wanting for happiness.
	All persons should seek in themselves the
instinct, the faculties, and the free develop-
ment of their happiness; and even then they
should know that they will not find any more
than half of what they seek. Gratified sel-
fishness sometimes constitutes half-satisfaction,
without any real solidity, or sufficient elements
of durability; we should render ourselves capa-
ble of happiness and worthy to possess it, by
wisdom, purity of life, and appreciation of the
good and beautiful; order, industry, devoted-
ness and humility are preliminaries to happi-
ness.
	In the world there are many things which
promise the elements of happiness, even when
sapping its very foundation. The voice of flat-
tery if we listen to it can only bring disappoint-
ment, weariness and regret. The gay followers
of fashion, flitting carelessly through their
butterfly existence, willing slaves to the "gold-
en chain" which binds them, are only mo-
mentarily happy; and often there is "a cloud
upon the brow," or "a sigh in the heart," of
the fairest of them. The scholar, the sculptor,
the scientist, and the poet, though they may
achieve grand triumphs of thought and study
may be made almost supremely happy, dazzled
even for a time, by the work of heart, hand
and brain, yet are not wholly satisfied; still
striving to grasp something just beyond their
reach. Ambition, however grand and magnifi-
cent have been its conquests, still leaves its
votaries restless and unhappy. The world-
renowned Caesar, when he had fulfilled "the
vow of his boyhood," and had boasted that
even "when his chariot, should disappear from
the Capitol, his statue be riven from its sphere
and its inscription, "Caesar the Demigod;"
lost, that through all time the ambitious man,
be he statesman, general or scholar would
study his career, and emulate his victories, it
is said, bitterly exclaimed, "Has the indomita-
ble will, the fierce struggle, the unflagging
toil, the blood of five hundred battle fields, the
sack of a thousand cities, brought me but this!
It is a mockery, a dream, a fable, can this be
all!"


You who are young, intelligent and free,
what is wanting for your happiness? You are
inspired with hope, courage, faith in the future,
but are not quite sufficient unto yourselves.
You are too sensible to think that influence, or
"a little brief authority" over others, will
yield permanent happiness; what is it then
that is wanting? Is it love, the force of affection?
There is a relative happiness in it certainly,
but where is the security of love, so infinitely pre-
cious and rare in its completeness, if all around
us there is ill-restrained ardor, faithless friend-
ship and unchaste desire? There is also a hap-
piness in doing good, but then one cannot fail
to see and be stung by the frightful insufficien-
cy of the resources, and the inexhaustible mine
of suffering.
	We might thus enumerate all the elements
of which individual happiness is composed,
and should have a hundred-thousand-fold more
than enough examples and proofs to show, that
if we have not the means of attaining happi-
ness within ourselves, no amount of riches, or
worldly wisdom, no virtue or strength of our
own, no greatness of intellect or heart can con-
fer it. And yet who would find happiness in
self? Humanity is one being, there must be a
voluntary and solid bond between ourselves
and others who compose the society in which
we live; we must love our neighbors as our-
selves, must "do to others as we would wish
them to do to us," truly and not falsely. And
when we reflect how far we fall short of this,
how utterly remote we are from these vital
conditions, we can realize in some small de-
gree, the magnitude of the work we must
achieve before we can attain that happiness
which an exalted soul realizes in self-sacrifice.
	And yet there is a partial happiness within
us, without us, and beyond us; let us exercise
ourselves in the science of waiting; and since
complete happiness seems to be the full devel-
opment of a great plenitude of exalted facul-
ties, cultivate in ourselves, each and all of
these essential tendencies. Resignation for
instance, moderate aspirations, gentle and
pious wisdom, a tender patience, generous for-
bearance, christian Charity, duty with its joys
and sorrows, and as we "cannot drink the sea,
let us be content with the the drops of dew."But after all, this immortal aspiration after
happiness is one of the eternal promises of God
to humanity.
	Truth must be the standard of all happiness.
The Savior when He made His appearance up-
on the earth was clothed with the plain sim-
plicity of truth; armed with the simple yet
all sufficient power of the Gospel. He looked
at things as they were; rebuked the evils and
vices, and plainly declared to men the true
system of greatness and glory. Not only did
His teachings and life abound with facts and
principles which every child could understand,
but He also promised to those who would ac-
cept it, the Comforter, even the Spirit of truth
which it is our blessed privilege to enjoy if we
will live for it; and with the Spirit of God abid-
ing in our hearts, we may be able to so discrimi-
nate between truth and error as to eventually
be guided into all truth, and secure to ourselves
a fruition of eternal happiness.
								B. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SPENCER'S LETTERS

	The fifth edition of the above standard work
has just been published at the Deseret News
Steam Printing Establishment, where it is for
sale. Bound in cloth, embossed, $1.25.
	This excellent publication, though well
known by many, should be widely circulated
among the Latter-day Saints. Showing as it


does, the most prominent doctrines of the
Church in an interesting manner, no better
book could be placed in the hands of the young;
or of any person desirous of obtaining a cor-
rect understanding concerning the principles
it advocates.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	THE DAILY Ogden "Junction" has entered
its third year. May success continue to fol-
low in its course.
	THE MEMBERS of the fire brigade had an ex-
cursion to Provo lately, and gave the people
of that city the opportunity of beholding them
in torchlight procession.
	A MONTHLY meeting of the Superintendents
and teachers of Sunday Schools will be held
during the October Conference, and it is re-
quested that each county in the Territory be
represented.
	WE THOUGHT to have given our readers
some account of the "Tooele Imbroglio," the
name now given to the contested election in
Tooele county. As the case is doubtless "to be
continued" we may refer to it again.
	BY PRIVATE letter from Cache, we learn that
sickness prevails to a great extent there, es-
pecially among the children. During the past
summer, deaths have been very numerous in
some localities in that county.
	ACCORDING TO sexton Taylor's account the
death rates for the month of September this
year are less than those of the same month in
any other year since he has held the office of
City Sexton. Better less than greater.
	THE DESERET Agricultural Society has de-
cided to hold a stock fair at the Agricultural
Park on the 20th and 21st instants. There will al-
so be races at the same place both days. This is
all we hear about a "Territorial Fair" this sea-
son.
	THE "MILLENIAL STAR" of September 8th
has this: "Information wanted. Margaret
Lee, of Christie's Buildings, Manchester, wish-
es to know the whereabouts of Alice Christie,
late of Manchester, and who emigrated to
Utah in 1861; her sister Mary Barlow is anxious
to hear from her."
	JOHN C. GRAHAM the favorite Salt Lake actor
recently returned home from England where
he has been laboring as a missionary, chiefly
at the "Millennial Star" office, Liverpool. He
is announced to play at the Theatre by request,
on Saturday evening, October 3rd. He will
doubtless be warmly greeted by a good house.
	A SELECT Party will be given by the ladies
of the Relief Society at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Friday October 2nd. The
Committee, Mesdames M. I. Horne, J. C.
Richardson, W. East, E. S. Taylor, S. H. Wil-
kinson and A. Cummings are efficient ladies
and we doubt not, will make this, the first
party of the season, a success. We wish all
who may participate a pleasant evening, and
acknowledge a complimentary.
	WORK ON the Utah Western Railroad is be-
ing manfully carried forward, and the belief is
entertained that by the 1st of November cars
will run on this line as far west as Clinton's,
from this City. The people of this Territory be-
gin to realize the benefits accruing from the in-
troduction of railroads into the country, and the
event of a railroad being designed and made in
Utah, is a source of satisfaction to all who take
an interest in her welfare and prosperity.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL Superintendent, Mr. George
Goddard, reports that after all expenses con-
nected with the Mammoth Jubilee, lately
held in the New Tabernacle, were paid, $500.00
net profit remained in the treasury of the Sun-
day School Union. It may be concluded from
this that such undertakings as the Juvenile
Jubilee are paying ones. And truly they
should be, for no system deserves encourege-
ment more than that which is for the proper ad-
vancement and development of youth.
	THE BEAVER "Enterprise" of Sept. 22nd,
has an account of a little boy four years old,
named George Lish, being lost among the hills
at North Star. It appears that his father had
dispatched him on an errand of no great dis-
tance, but as hills intervened, hiding the cabin
from his sight, the little fellow lost his way and
wandered for nearly two days and a night
among the hills. Twenty-five men were en-
gaged in the search for him, and after the
greater part of the second day had passed he was
found almost perishing with fatigue, hunger
and thirst. Be careful parents, don't send your
precious little charges on missions of too great
importance for their age or experience.
	IT SEEMS that fishing this season has become
a mania with some people in these parts; but
whether they fish for want of food or for want
of other employment is a question. The other
day two gentlemen, pleasure seekers doubtless,
in this city, were seen to stop at a little pool
made from a stream—designed for irrigating a
meadow but too low at the time—alight from
the buggy in which they rode, move noiselessly
towards the stream so not to frighten away the
fish, and carefully insert their fish-hooks in
the water. Another gentleman, one of more
experience probably than the "fishermen,"
told them as he passed along, that they would
likely stand a better chance for catching some-
thing in the next stream. They moved on
hopefully and – we didn't learn the result of
their day's exploits.
	SEVERAL SERIOUS accidents occasioned by
teams taking fright and running away have re-
cently occurred in this City. Among the most
lamentable may be chronicled an event which
took place on the 23rd ult. in which a young
man was so severely hurt that he died soon
after, a gentleman and lady were both badly
bruised, a carriage broken in pieces and the
horses badly if not fatally wounded. The
young man named Brunker, was driving the
team, the gentleman and lady, Mr. and Mrs.
Jas. Woodruff were returning home from the
burial of their infant child at the time of the
accident. One of Mrs. Woodruff's hands was
bruised so that the doctors think she will lose
one of her fingers. On the Friday following
this accident another runaway was the occa-
sion of Mrs. White—wife of Mr. White the
banker—being thrown from a carriage and very
dangerously hurt but it is believed not mor-
tally injured.


NOT ALL LOST. —A bankrupt merchant
returning home one night said to his wife:
	"My dear, I am ruined; everything we
have is in the hands of the sheriff!"
	After a few moments of silence, the wife
looked into his face and said;
	"Will the sheriff sell you?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell me?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell the children?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Then do not say we have lost every-
thing. All that is most valuable remains to
us—manhood, womanhood, childhood. We
have lost but the results of our skill and in-
dustry. We can make another fortune if
our hearts and hands are left us!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FAVORED SCHOLAR.
		BY JOHN ROGERS.
Oh, rash young man! to keep a school,
And think to hold your idle rule
O'er the enchantress by your side,
So graceful in her maiden pride,
So piquant in her fresh array,—
Like an incarnate Summer's day,
With hanging curls, and parted lips
And rose between her finger-tips,
And all Love's ready witchery hid
'Neath each averted, drooping lid.

Half-teased, half-pleased, he sits up there,
And holds the slate with patient air,
Showing the oft-repeated sum,
Waiting to hear the answer come,—
But she knows more—her instincts tell her,
With what a rein she holds the "feller,"—
And tho' the answer lingers now
Under her broad New England brow,
She's in no haste, ah, no! not she,
To solve the ancient mystery;
'Tis pleasant, standing by his side
In girlish fun and maiden pride,
Just conscious of her latent power,
A queen—for one brief morning hour!

The lilacs in the sultry air
May droop their purple clusters fair,
The unused ink-horn idle lie,
The rusty pen grow stiff and dry,
While, heedless of the boy below
Who boldly mocks the pretty show,
With reckless impudence of wit,
Sets comrades in a laughing fit;
Heedless of aught and all save her,
Watching to see her eyelids stir—
The master of the village school
Learns to submit to Cupid's rule!


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	About Rag Carpets.—Not long since, while cut-
ting a piece of rag carpeting to suit the rooms for
which it was designed, I was much annoyed by its
"propensity" to unravel, wasting at least an inch
at each end, which to my economical mind was not
at all pleasant. So I "set my wits to work" to
devise a better way, and have found that by stitch-
ing it on the sewing machine, on each side of and
very close to the dividing line, or where it is to be
cut off, no wastage will occur, and the edges may
then be bound with narrow binding as other car-
peting. Some ladies whom I know supply their
weavers with old yarn which is woven in at stated
lengths, according to the size of the room which
the carpet is intended for. As the yarn will not
unravel easily, it may be cut there, and hemmed or
bound, as preferred.
	Beefsteak.—A method of broiling equal in every
respect to the gridiron, excepting that it lacks the
smoky taste, is this: Set your spider on the stove,
and let it get smoking hot. Put in no butter nor
any kind of grease. Have your meat previously
prepared by trimming off all pieces of bone, gland;
superfluous suet and tissues that will bind the edge
and make it curl up. Lay it very carefully and
smoothly in the spider. It will stick fast at first,
but as soon as it is browned, can be loosened with
a knife. Sprinkle a little salt on the upper sur-
face, and turn it over. Let the other side brown
the same as the first. Have a platter warmed,
lay the meat carefully upon it, without besmearing
the edges, dress with butter and pepper, and send
it to the table hot. By this process you have as
crisp and brown a surface, with the juice retained,
as well as by broiling, and the additional advan-
tage that the inevitable drippings are saved, and
can be converted into gravy.
	Wash For Buildings.—The following is a most
excellent, cheap and durable wash for wooden fen-
ces and buildings. It owes its durability chiefly to
the white vitriol which hardens and fixes the wash:
	Take a barrel and slack one bushel of freshly
burned lime in it, by covering the lime with boil-
ing water. After it is slacked, add cold water
enough to bring it to the consistency of good white-
wash. Then dissolve in water, and add one pound
of white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) and one quart of
fine salt. To give this wash a cream color, add
one half pound of yellow ochre (in powder). To
give it a fawn look, add a pound of yellow  ochre
and one-fourth of a pound of Indian red. To make
the wash a handsome gray stone color, add one half
pound of French blue  and one-fourth pound of
Indian red; a drab will be made by adding one half
pound of burnt sienna, and one-fourth pound
Venetian red. For brick or stone, instead of one
bushel of lime, use half a bushel of lime and half
[-] bushel of hydraulic cement.
	Be careful with needles.—Many persons have
experienced years of suffering, and not a few have
lost their lives on account of carelessness with
needles. Needles are very useful articles, but are
extremely dangerous when dropped about the floors,
carpets and ruggs, or when carelessly left sticking
in unfinished work.
	About three years ago a woman, while wringing
out a cloth with which she had been wiping the
floor, broke a needle off in her hand. She suf-
fered extremely; and the piece of needle is yet in
her hand, surgical aid having failed to discover it.
A young lady sat down and inclined back against a
piece of unfinished work which she herself had
placed on the back of the chair, and broke the
needle off in her arm. The arm swelled exceed-
ingly and was very painful, but the needle could
not be extracted. A worthy citizen and personal
friend of the writer of this item, as he was about
to retire for the night, stepped on a needle which
had lodged in a rug by the bedside and broke it off
in his heel. He was compelled to undergo a sur-
gical operation in order to obtain relief from the
pain which was caused by this seemingly insignifi-
cant wound. A man in Somerville, Mass., recent-
ly, while eating chicken pie felt, as he supposed, a
small bone lodged in his throat. He applied to a 
surgeon who extracted the offensive agent, which
proved to be a rusty needle. It is supposed that
the needle was carelessly dropped into the food
which the chicken ate, and that it worked its way
into the flesh of the chicken and came near des-
troying the life of the man in question. Numer-
ous other cases might be mentioned, but these are
deemed sufficient to forcibly impress upon the minds
of the incautious the great importance of being
careful about needles.


HYGIENIC NOTES

	NEURALGIA.—Neuralgia and toothache
are sometimes speedily relieved by applying 
to the wrist a quantity of bruised or grated
horseradish.
	CHARCOAL FOR WOUNDS.—A correspon-
dent of the Scientific American says:—"The 
best simple remedy I have found for surface
wounds, such as cuts, abrasions of the skin,
&c., is charcoal. Take a live coal from the
stove, pulverize it, apply it to the wound
and cover the whole with a rag. The char-
coal absorbs the fluids secreted by the
wound, and lays the foundation of the scab;
it also prevents the rag from irritating the
flesh, and it is antiseptic.
	THUMB-SUCKING.—I have observed that
a peculiar and rather common deformity of
the chest is caused by the habit of sucking
the thumb in infancy and early childhood.
The weight of the arm on the thorax of the
child during sleep produces depression of
the ribs in the line occupied by the arm
when the thumb is placed in the mouth.
As this is a very important effect of "thumb-
sucking" never hitherto pointed out, I think
it desirable to place this thing on record for
the benefit of other observers.—Brit. Med,
Journal.
	WHOOPING COUGH.—A  writer in the
Medical Journal, London, states that in
cases of whooping cough in the last stage—


that is, after the third week—he has had
one ounce of the strongest liquid ammonia
put into a gallon of water in an open pan,
and the steam kept up by means of half a 
brick made red hot throughout, and put in-
to the boiling water containing the ammonia,
the pan being placed in the middle of a
room, into which the patients were brought,
as the ammonia steam was passing off. This
method, he says, was used in the evening,
before bed-time, and it proved so efficacious
in abating the spasmodic, attack, and after
three or four days terminating the malady,
as to establish, beyond a doubt, the value
of this mode of inhaling ammonia as a thera-
peutic agent in tranquilizing the nervous
system in the whooping cough.
	BREAKFAST BEFORE WORK.—Always
take breakfast before leaving the house in
the morning. This will prevent an easy
and early tiring, while the testimony of ob-
servant farmers of education corroborates
the teaching of the best medical minds,
that by strengthening the stomach and
sending invigorating nutriment to the
whole system, weakened by the long fast
of the night, there is generated a power of
resistence against the onsets of disease from
the cold of winter and from the malarias
and miasms of summer, especially in flat,
damp, and luxuriant soils, which can not be
adequately expressed in langauge; while
both experience and experiment have com-
bined to show that, by the simple expedient
of an early breakfast, individuals and fami-
lies and neighborhoods have exempted
themselves from that scourge of all new
countries “fever and ague," especially if
followed by a supper a little before sun-
down, from May to November.


﻿WIFE, MISTRESS AND LADY.

	Whoever marries for love takes a wife,
who marries for fortune takes a mistress,
who marries for a position takes a lady.
You are loved by your wife, regarded by
your mistress, and tolerated by your lady.
You have a wife for yourself, a mistress for
your house and friends, a lady for the world
and society. Your wife will agree with you,
your mistress will rule you, your lady will
manage you. Your wife will take care of
your household, your mistress of your house,
your lady of appearances. If you are sick,
your wife will nurse you, your mistress will
visit you, your lady will inquire after your
health. You take a walk with your wife, a
ride with your mistress, and go to a party
with your lady. Your wife will share your
grief, your mistress your money, your lady
your debts. If you are dead, your wife will
weep, your mistress lament, and your lady
wear mourning. Which will you have?


A STENTORIAN VOICE.—In the Grecian
army it was usual to have three men in each
battalion to communicate the commands of
the officers to the men—of these one car-
ried a standard, and another a trumpet. But;
in the din and confusion of battle, when
neither signal could be seen nor trumpet
heard, the third man (who for this purpose
was the strongest in the army) communica-
ted the commands by word of mouth. Ho-
mer relates of one of these men, Stentor
by name, that he shouted as loud as fifty
other men. Hence a man with a powerful
voice is said to possess the voice of Stentor;
or a Stentorian voice.


PETITIONS for Woman Suffrage, to which
were attached 300,000 signatures, have been
presented to the British Parliament.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME-CLEANING VERSUS HOUSE-
			KEEPING.

	The truest of all homes are often in
houses not especially well kept, where the
comfort and happiness of the inmates, rath-
er than the preservation of the furniture,
are first consulted. The object of home is
to be the center, the point of tenderest in-
terest, the pivot on which family life turns.
The first requisite is to make it attractive,
so attractive that none of its inmates shall
care to linger outside its limits. All legiti-
mate means should be employed to this end,
and no effort spared that can contribute to
the purpose. Many houses called homes,
kept with waxy neatness by pains-taking,
anxious women, are so oppressive in their
nicety as to exclude all home-feeling from
their spotless precincts. The very name of
home is synonymous with personal freedom
and relaxation from care. But neither of these
can be felt where such a mania for eternal
cleanliness pervades the household as to
render everything else subservient thereto.
Many housewives, if they see a speck on
floor or wall, rush at it, as if it were the
seed of pestilence which must be removed
on the instant.  Their temper depends up-
on their maintenence of perfect purity and
order. If there be any failure on their
part, or any combination of circumstances
against them, they fall into a pathetic de-
spair, and can hardly be lifted out.  They
do not see that cheerfulness is more needful
at home than all the spotlessness that ever
shone. Their disposition to wage war upon
maculateness of any sort increases until
they become slaves of the broom and dust-
pan. Neatness is one thing, and a state of
perpetual house-cleaning quite another.
	Out of this grows by degrees the feeling
that certain things and appartments are too
good for daily use. Hence, chairs and sofas
are covered, and rooms shut up, save for
special occasions, when they are permitted
to reveal their violated sacredness in a man-
ner that mars every pretense of hospitality.
Nothing should be bought which is consid-
ered too fine for the fullest domestic appro-
priation. Far better is the plainest furni-
ture on which the children can climb, than
satin and damask which must be viewed
with reverence. Where anything is re-
erved or secluded, to disguise the fact is
gxtremely difficult. A chilly air wraps it
round, and the repulsion of strangeness is
experienced by the most insensible.
	There are few persons who have not vis-
ited houses where they have been introduced
to what is known as the company parlor.
They must remember how uncomfortable
they were while sitting in it; how they
found it almost impossible to be at ease,
and mainly for the reason that their host
and hostess were not themselves at ease.
The children were watched with lynx eyes,
lest they should displace or soil some-
thing; so that the entertainment of friends
became very much like a social discipline.
They must recall, too, how sweet the fresh
air seemed out-of-doors, and how they in-
wardly vowed, on leaving that temple of
form and fidgetiness, that something more
than politeness would be required to induce
them to return.—Scribner's.


THE United States Hotel, at Saratogo, is
1,400 feet in length, or more than a quar-
ter of a mile long, covering 95,000 feet of
earth, with sleeping accommodations for
1,200 guests. The entire cost is $225,000.
Thirty thousand yards of carpet are required
to cover the floors. Almost as big as the
Palace Hotel, San Francisco.


LITTLE HARRY.

	"Those words of an Irish serving woman
were a great comfort to me," said a mother
amid her tears; it seemed more than she
could bear, the thought of laying down in
the cold and darkness of the grave, all the
beauty and sweetness of her little boy.
And the Irish woman trying in her homely
way to comfort her, said, "well, he isn't too
pretty for where he's gone." I think those
words were just what she needed. This
touching little story is a true one, the mother
a very dear friend of mine, of a nature
most impressible and tender, told it to me.
While close by, in the dim, sorrowful sun-
light, lay little Harry, with his large, open
blue eyes, that seemed like life instead of
death, with the flowers scattered over him
and the small, beautiful hands that looked
like lilies half blossomed and waiting for
the morning sunshine to come and open
them. There he lay in the small casket which
resembled a coffin as little as possible, wait-
ing too, a little while, for they were bear-
ing him from the city home whose light he
had been, whose joy he had made, to the
still country grave yard, where the grass
would build over him its low, green roof,
and the last autumn birds would sing their
sweet farewells over his slumbers.
	At last the mother rose up, went to the
coffin and kissed the sweet, cold face there
and said, "My little boy, it is the last ride
you will ever take." And only you, oh
mothers! who have so laid away the sweet
perished blossoms of your love and tender-
ness know how her heart ached as she said
these words. And then the lid was fasten-
ed down and little Harry was shut out from
our sight.
	As the words of the Irish woman found
their way to that mother's heart, in her
great anguish and desolation, so I thought 
they might find a way to some other moth-
er's heart, stricken like hers.
	"Not too pretty for where he has gone."
All the sweet looks and ways, the little cun-
ning, hindering tricks, the pearls of laugh-
ter, the fluttering hands, the pattering feet,
all gone—and in their stead a great blank
and darkness. With only those touching
witnesses, tiny shoes, baby aprons and little
embroidered dresses. But the blossom whose
beauty and fragrance brightened the home
below, will bloom fairer and larger in that
upper home where there are no frosts to
chill, no snows to cover over. Oh! the Irish
woman was right. Neither little Harry nor
your own baby, mourning mother, was too
pretty for the Heaven to which it has gone.


An editor clipped from an exchange an
obituary poem, which he sent to the compos-
ing-room with some introductory remarks.
He said: "We publish below a very touch-
ing production from the pen of Miss M——.
It was written by her at the death-bed of
her sainted mother, and it overflows with
those expressions of filial affection which
are the natural outgrowth of pure untutored
genius that has developed beneath the shel-
tering influence of a mother’s love. The
reader will observe how each line glows,
with ardent affection and tenderest regret.”
	Somehow, in attaching this introduction
to the poem, the editor turned up the wrong
side of the clipping, and the consequence
was that the editor's lines led the reader
gently into an article upon “Hog Cholera in
Tennessee.” It was rumored that the rela-
tives of Miss M——were seen prowling
around the office next day armed with shot-
guns, but this has not been traced to any re-
liable authority.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE Michigan State University, has 95
female students on the rolls.
	THE prevailing church in Iceland is the
Lutheran. They have 321 churches and 189
ministers.
	IT is estimated that $3,000,000 worth of
grain has been destroyed by grasshoppers in
Southern Missouri.
	THE local authorities of Auckland, New
Zealand, have instituted an annual tax on
bachelors of five dollars a head.
	THE English Post office carries annually
about 870,000,000 letters, 75,000,000 postal
cards, 103,000,000 book packets, and 99,000,
000 newspapers.
	BY adding a one-cent postage stamp to a
postal card you, can send the card to Brit-
tish Columbia, the Canadas, Newfoundland
or Germany.
	THE Tolodo Historical Society has been
presented with a little, completely-formed
egg, which was found inside the yolk of a
hen’s egg. It is nearly an inch long of the
usual shape, and the shell which is hard, is
formed.
	A NEW postal card is to be adopted which
will be lighter in color, probably very nearly
white. The printing and engraving will be
executed in black ink, and the border will
be narrower and much neater in appearance
The change has not been fully decided up-
on.
	THE house of A. T. Stewart & Co., with
all its immense resources and wide-spread
reputation, spends a third of a million an-
nually in constant and persistent advertis-
ing in substantial newspapers, to keep its
business up to the proper point.  The same
thing is equally true of the two next great-
est dry goods establishment in New York.
Messrs. Lord & Taylor spend annually not
less than $225,000 for advertising alone,
while the books of Arnold & Constable show
a yearly expenditure of $175,000 for the
same purpose.
	THERE are no fewer than 153 States,
great and small, reckoned as feudatories of
the Government of India, and excluding
Berar and Mysore, which are temporarily
under English administration, the total area
of the country governed by native rulers is
565,106 square miles with an estimated pop-
ulation of 48,000, 000. Including Berar and
Mysore, there is a native ruled population
of 55,000,000, paying to its chiefs a revenue
of £15,000,000 per anum, while the 184,
000,000 of people inhabiting 830,000 square
miles of territory directly under Brittish
rule contribute a revenue of £50,000,000 per
anum.


SELF EXAMINATION.—Before we betake
ourselves to rest let us review and examine
all the passages of the day, that we may
have the comfort of what we have done
right, and may redress what we have done
amiss, and make the shipwrecks of one day
as marks to direct our course in another.
This may be called the very act of virtuous 
living, and contributes wonderfully to ad-
vance our reformation and preserve our in-
nocence.—Matthew Henry


﻿WE are told that three hundred years
ago ladies combed their hair just as they do
to-day. This won't do in a civilized land
among observing people. Three hundred
years ago ladies used to comb their hair on
their heads—now they hang it over the
back of a chair and comb it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A YOUNG lady recently married in Eng-
land received a magnificent bracelet with
the word "Mizpah" in rubies, emeralds,
diamonds and sapphires.  The literal inter-
pretation is: "The Lord watch between
thee and me when we are absent on from
another."  A more fitting motto for a happy
couple commencing life cannot well be con-
ceived.
	BISMARCK recently showed some visitors
over his house, and pointing to a desk in
the Princes' room told them his wife, as
they might observe, kept the cash. He had
from the beginning entrusted her with the
chrage of his money affairs while he attend-
ed to politics, and he would advise every
married man to do the smae taking no more
than his wife gave him.
	AMONG the characteristics of woman, is
that sweet, motherly love, with which na-
ture has gifted her; it is almost indepen-
dent of cold reason, and and wholly removed
from all selfish hope of reward.  Not because
it is lovely, does a mother love her child,
but because it is a loving part of herself—
the child of her heart, a fraction of her own
nature.  Therefore does she yearn over its 
wailings; her heart beats quicker at its joy;
her blood flows most softly through her veins
when the breast at which it drinks knits
it to her.—Herder.
	AN interesting anecdote is related of a
large dog kept in Algiers by Miss Emily
Napier, daughter of Sir William Napier.
This dog was sent every morning to fetch
bread from the baker's and regularly brought
home twelve rolls in a basket.  At last it was
observed that for several mornings there
were only eleven rolls in the basket; and,
on watching the dog, he was found to stop
on his way and bestow one roll on a poor,
sick and starving lady-dog; hidden, with her
puppies, in a corner, on the road from the
shop. The baker was then instructed to
put thirteen rolls in the basket, after which
the dog delivered the twelve faithfully for
a few days, and then left all the thirteen in
the basket—the token, as it proved, that his
sick friend was convalescent, and able to
dispense with his charity.
	THE observance of the following particu-
lars seems to be essential to the intelligent
comprehension, not only of the Bible, but
any other book; First, ascertain who is the
person speaking; second, who is the person
spoken to; third, what are the circumstan-
ces under which the words were spoken,
and fourth, what was the obvious purpose
for which they were spoken or written.
All these particulars may be generally glean-
ed from a careful reading of the context.
This rule is so reasonable that it is universally
applied in reading books of men, and even
business and social correspondence; and by
the neglect of this common principle in the
reading of the Bible the gravest blunders
have been committed; and it, in the hands
of scoffers and imbeciles, has been made to
"prove everything" and to "contradict it-
self."  A gentleman of my acquaintance,
in conversation with a person who read his
Bible in this desultory way—turning and
twisting it like a kaleidoscope—remarked
that, by his interlocutor's mode of reading
the Scriptures, it could be proven from them
that he ought to commit suicide. "How so?"
was the response.  "Why," said the first,
"do you not read, 'and Judas went out and
hanged himself!' and do you not read also
'go thou and do likewise'?"


DIVERSIONS.

	A GUSHING Miss—The Mississippi.
	A COOL request—Please pass the ice.
	SOMEBODY defines flirtation to be atten-
tion without intention.
	A WOMAN'S modesty is like her color—ex-
ceedingly becoming if it is not put on.
	WHY do women talk less in February
than in any other month? Because it is the
shortest month in the year.
	"MISS C—," said a gentleman one eve-
ning, "why are ladies so fond of officers?"
"How stupid," replied Miss C—; "it is not
natural and proper that a lady should like a
good offer, sir?"
	TRAVELER (registering)—John Smith and
lady. Hotel clerk—"All right, sir; put you
in 114, the lady in 94." Traveler—"But
the lady is my wife, sir." Clerk—"Then
why didn't you say so?"
	AN old veteran was relating his exploits
to a crowd of boys, and mentioned having
been in five engagements. "That's noth-
ing," broke in a little fellow, "my sister
Agnes has been engaged eleven times!"
	A YOUNG blacksmith wrote his advertise-
ment, stating that all orders in his business
would be promptly executed; but it came
out, "All others in this business will be
promptly executed." On seeing this fear-
ful notice, an old blacksmith threw up his
hands and exclaimed: "Has it come to this,
after thirty years of honest toil!"
	AT an exhibition of amateur theatricals,
when the Richard III. of the evening cried,
"A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a
horse!" a would-be wag called out, "Wouldn't
a jackass do just as well?" "Certainly," re-
sponded the actor; "please step up here im-
mediately." The interrupter hastily re-
tired.
	WHEN the train draws up at Stamford
five minutes for refreshments, it is easy to
distinguish the experienced traveler from
the rest. He has already got out on the plat-
form, and is either on the bottom step or
close enough to it. Just as soon as the
speed of the train becomes less than he can
make he springs off and dashes madly for
the saloon door, through it and up to the
counter, giving his order for coffee while
moving, and snatching up the right article
the first time. He knows just how much
time is required to make five minutes, and
when it is expired he is out on the platform
picking his teeth and talking about real es-
tate. Alas, for the inexperienced traveler
such is not his record. He is inside the car
when it stops, with twenty persons ahead of
him. He jumps down on the platform in
time to see the mass surging into the door
and just then it suddenly strikes him that
he may be too late and under this inspira-
tion he throws himself into the struggling
gang. He doesn't reach the table. He and
the other inexperienced travelers form the
outside line, and shout their orders through
the openings and receive what is handed
them with thankfulness and what dexterity
they can muster. Such a man will perspire,
and choke, and paw and jaw during the en-
tire five minutes, and in that time may get
down two-thirds of a sandwich, one-third of
a piece of custard pie, and more or less of
the coffee, and then get out of the door just
in time to catch hold of the car-rail, and be
pulled on by the brakeman. And when he
has reached his seat and is scraping the rest
of that pie from his boot, and drawing cold
air into his throat to allay the pain of the
scald, he will think up things about the
keeper of that restaurant that would make
the hair on a saw-horse stand on end.—Dan-
bury News.


A LITTLE girl said of her ill-tempered
uncle: "he hasn't got a single laugh in his
face."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
storey Brick Store;
First South St., 1/2 block west of co-op. Corner.
H. Wallace
Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyou ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent. 
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.
CLUB RATES.
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club.								$18.00
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,	-	-	-	-	- 				20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50							34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, han-
	somley framed, selling price $4	-	- 	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
