KISSES ON INTEREST.

	A father, talking to his careless daughter,
said: "I want to speak to you for your mother.
It may be that you have noticed a care-worn
look upon her face lately. Of course it has not
been brought there by any act of yours; still it
is your duty to chase it away. I want you to
get up to-morrow morning and get breakfast:
and when your mother comes and begins to ex-
press her surprise, go right up to her and kiss
her on the mouth. You can't imagine how it
will brighten her dear face. Besides, you owe
her a kiss or two. Away back, when you were
a little girl, she kissed you when no one else
was tempted by your fever-tainted breath and
swollen face. You were not as attractive then
as you are now. And through those years of
childish sunshine and shadows she was always
ready to cure, by the magic of a mother's kiss,
the little, dirty, chubby hands whenever they
were injured in those first skirmishes with the
world. And then the midnight kiss with
which she routed so many bad dreams, as she
leaned above your restless pillow, have all been
on interest these long, long years. Of course
she is not so pretty and kissable as you are,
but if you had done your share of the work
during the last ten years the contrast would not
be so marked. Her face has more wrinkles
than yours, far more; and yet if you were sick
that face would appear more beautiful than an
angel's as it hovered over you, watching every
opportunity to minister to your comfort, and
every one of those wrinkles would seem to be
bright wavelets of sunshine chasing each other
over the dear face. She will leave you one of
these days. These burdens, if not lifted from
her shoulders, will break her down. Those
rough, hard hands that have done so many
necessary things for you, will be crossed upon
her lifeless breast. Those neglected lips that
gave you your first baby kiss, will be forever
closed, and those sad, tired eyes will have been
opened in eternity, and then you'll appreciate
your mother; but it will be too late.—Centre-
ville (Md.) Record.


﻿IT is the men who possess no real respect for
woman, no thought for her highest mental or
moral developement that have always prated
most about the necessity of "protecting woman"
by hindering her development through legisla-
tive enactment. It is the men who look upon
women with lustful eyes that fear her indepen-
dent existence, either socially or politically,
lest she be no longer a dependent upon their
unholy demands.—H. M. Gougar.


