MY DEAR SISTERS:
	My heart is filled with gratitude and praise to
my Heavenly Father, for the great blessings He
has vouchsafed to me, and feeling a desire to
write a few lines, I pray that His Spirit may be
given, and dictate to my mind what I shall pen
at this time. There are so many subjects to
write upon, it is difficult to choose one. How-
ever, my mind has been much exercised on
the subject of prayer, and I will, by the aid of
that Spirit which leads and guides into all truth,
offer a few ideas on that subject.
	The words of the poet come forcibly to my
mind, "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire," etc.,

[Column 2]
and what would be the use of praying for what
we do not desire? The promise is our desires
shall be granted if we ask in faith, believing we
shall receive the things for which we ask. How
thankful and humble should we be that we have
a Father in Heaven, who is willing to hear and
answer our prayers, when offered in sincerity
and purity, in the name of Jesus, for He is the
Mediator between the Father and man, and
maketh intercession for us at the Throne of
Grace.
	I often think we should not be discouraged if
our prayers are not answered immediately—
sometimes this is the case, and for a wise pur-
pose. I think one reason is, the Lord desires to
see if we are in earnest; or we may have prayed
for what we ought not, and therefore have
"asked amiss" Again, there are certain times
when we should pray. We are told to pray to
our Father in secret, and the promise is, He will
reward us openly. Again, we are to pray with
our families. And now, dear sisters, I would
urge, if you have not yet begun, and your hus-
bands are not there to attend to this duty, gather
your family together; teach them it is as neces-
sary to ask the Lord for spiritual as bodily food;
teach them what is meant by spiritual food.
Also, inspire their young and tender minds with
faith to believe in receiving the things they ask.
O ye mothers of Israel! take time to instruct
your children in the principles of the Gospel.
What a responsible position we hold! and what
account will we give, if we neglect to instil into
their minds those truths which the Lord has
placed within our reach, and for the use or neg-
lect of the same we are held accountable. Our
children look up to us for counsel, and we should
live so they will see by our every act, in our
every day life, that we are sincere, and that we
practice the principles we desire to teach to
them.
	By restraining prayer we cease to fight, and
there are many opposing spirits abroad in the
earth; also we have our own weaknesses to
overcome. We are required to put on the whole
armor, including the Shield of Faith, etc., using
all dilligence in seeking for the Spirit of God,
which, if cherished in our hearts will grow and
increase in us, and we will become better quali-
fied, and have more strength, to overcome the
many obstacles that lie in our path onward and
upward. We should lay aside everything that
easily besets us, be diligent in business, fervent
in spirit, serving the Lord. There is something
for each to do, many duties to perform, and rais-
ing a large family is not the least; for when we
consider who gave those spirits, and what they
were sent for, it should incite us to train them
up in the fear of the Lord, that when they are
old they may not depart from it. Blessed, in
the morning of the resurrection, will that parent
be, and her children will rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
That this may be the happy lot of all the faith-
ful mothers in Zion, is the prayer of your sister
in the Gospel,					E. R. C.
	Lehi, Oct. 18, 1882.


