ORATION OF SAMUEL PEABODY, Esq.,
ON THE QUESTION OF THE
HOUR.

	Neibours and Fellow citizens—You see be-
fore you to-day a heart-broken man. Our
wives are on the revolt. I've been afeared for
a long time we were gwine tu have a revuli-
tion, and now I'm sure ont. They're mighty
trung up too,and the worst is they're united wi'
one another, and we are left out. They've had
a big meeting, and good gracious! how they
did talk, in the absence of wife Patience!—
I feel brave. They will have it that ther
great grandmother, Eve, ruled the roost, an'
they're not gwine tu give up ther nat'ral
rights.
	The critters ses that fur a long time they've
been a nappin' tu give ther pardners time tu
shew themselves, but now ther wide awake, and
is a gwine to put us in our proper place. O ye
men of Amerike, where du you think that is?
Why, tu hum, tendin' babies and doin' the
smawl chores of the house. Why? Because
ther time 's tu precious.
	Yo should see our Patience! she's just had
a coat made with tew tails all buttoned down
afore—I mean the coat and not the tails—an'
a hat with a rooster's feather in it.
	Patience ses ther gwine to chuse a woman
fur the next President, and turn th' Congress
men into Congress wimmen, all but Senator
Vest and tew or three more. They're a gwine
tu give them the priveledge of discussing the
question of the hour. That Mormon problem
is so knotty, and its gettin' knottier all the
time. They're tired of the etarnal fuss about
it, fur they've kept that tempest in a teapot fur
forty years, and nothin' cum of it yet.
	They ses it's hereditary in the wimmin folks

[Column 2]
tu untie knots. Ther grandmother Eve untied
the fust, and they've kept in the same string
ever since, Ther a gwine tu enact a new law,
with no amendment tu it, and hav it stuck up
in all the churches, chapels, and in both houses
of Congress, that, if ennybody cotches some
body els a mindin' another body's business,
ther tu be tuk up an' tried afore them five
commishoners for Polygamy.
	You know, my constituents, feller citizens,
that we've done all we could tu keep up our
dignity, and yet pleas the wimmin folks, but
we can't do it.
	We can't write a letter to our old sweet-
hearts for fear they should find it, ther so curis.
We're obliged tu be hum by nine o'clock nights,
tu tend baby, while they go tu wimmen's meet-
ins to concoct measures to disturb our peace
and take away our liberty.
	They spend five-fourths of ther time shop-
ping, while we can't take time tu buy a cigar,
or we're reminded of our extravagance. Ther
so absent-minded, thinkin' up the affairs of the
nation, that insted of the bosoms of our shirts
bein' starched, it is sometimes another part,
and, as a gineral thing, about ten-ninths of the
buttons are off. They ses, "My dear, when I
married you." Now that rather looks tu me
like the cart afore the horse.
	We never can pleas 'em, we either walk tu
straight or tu crooked. They won't allow us
even one frill on our shirts, while they can frill
and bow all down the back and up afore.
	They must have a little sling nights to
brighten up ther idees, but won't give us none,
because it makes us stupid.
	They won't allow no one tu giv an interpre-
tation of the question of the hour but them-
selves, 'cause they say they understan mathe-
matics. They've limited us tu one cigar a day
an' no pipe, for fear of unstringing our narves.
When we du ennything they think wrong, they
sum us up in quick time without judge or jnry.
	Now, what I'm a gwine to say, shall we stan'
it? (Say, look aut thar and see if Patince is a
comin'. No!) Now Richard's himself again.
Shades of our fathers of '76, shall we stan' it?
I ses no, no; tu battle! tu battle! ye braves!
Don't give in a pint. O lor! here comes Pa-
tience. I must git.


