IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Jane P. Sharp, wife of Bishop John Sharp, de-
parted this life the 25th of August, 1882. She was born
June 26, 1819, in Blackmannanshire, Scotland. Emi-
grated to Utah In 1850. She was the mother of twelve
children, and grandmother of twenty-eight children.
She joined the Church in Scotland, her native country,
May 24, 1847.
	Mrs. Sharp was chosen First Counselor to Mrs. Mar-
garet Smoot at the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety of the Twentieth Ward. When Sister Smoot
moved to Provo, Mrs. Sharp was acting President for a
number of years, but on account of her poor health, she
resigned her office. She was a most devoted wife and a
kind, loving mother, and died in full faith of the Gospel
and of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, President,
R. S. 20th Ward.			MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.

	It is with feelings of sincere regret and affectionate
remembrance that we chronicle tha death of our es-
teemed friend and sister, Jane James, who passed away
from earth quietly and peacefully, surrounded by her
family and kind friends, on the afternoon of September
10, 1882, in the fifty-first year of her age, to join the
heavenly hosts and the loved ones gone before.
	Deceased was a native of Shrewsbury, Shropshire,
England; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when quite young, and emigrated to Utah
with her husband In 1853. They first settled in Draper
ville, but shortly after moved to Paradise, Cache Co.
where her husband, David James, held the office of
Bishop for several years. They were among the first
settlers of that place, and she patiently endured the
trials and hardships incident to the settling of a new
country, ever thanking her Heavenly Father that she
had the privilege of hearing and receiving the Gospel
and gathering with the Saints. At the organization of
the Relief Society of Paradise she was chosen President,
which position she held until she removed with her fam-
ily to Salt Lake City in 1873, where they located in the
Seventh Ward. When the Primary Association was or-
ganized in that ward, she was called to fill the position
of First Counselor, which office she held until her death
Sister James was a faithful wife, a true and loving
mother, a sincere and faithful friend, and a pure, hum-
ble, practical Latter-day Saint. Through her whole life
she was governed entirely by a conscientious regard or
principle and a love for all that ia pure, elevating and
ennobling. She leaves a husband, four children, one
grandchild and a host of relatives and friends to mourn
her loss.—COM.

	Died, at Richmond, Oct. 23,1882, of pneumonia, Ro-
sina Shepard Fyers, after eleven days' Illness, which she
bore with great fortitude; her faith in the Gospel of
Christ was firm to the end. Sister Fyers was President
of the teachers quorum in the Relief Society. Her ener-
gies were ever devoted to the good of the poor, filling
her office with honor as a Saint of God; she will come
forth at the resurrection of the just. She was born


January 21, 1829, in Denmark, Fur's Co., State of New
York; was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Shepard, and
was baptized into the Church when quite a child.

