SCENES AND INCIDENTS INNAUVOO
				——
	       BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				——
   By some it may be thought an excess of sen-
timent in me to publish extracts from so many
of my parents’ letters, and I will here just say
that I have not done so for the mere pleasure
of rehearsing them, for I felt a delicacy in so
doing, and had it not been for the urgent re-
quest of others, who expressed their pleasure in
readiug them, I should have ceased long since.
   The correspondence from May 21st till June
30th, 1844, contains some interesting items,
which will no doubt be read with unusual in-
terest at this peculiar period of our history.
   It was understood before my father left for
the East, that my mother should accompany
George J. Adams to Philadelphia, where she
was to meet him, and that I should go, too, if
sufficient means could be procured. We were
to start by the 1st of July. My mother, Wil-
liam and myself accompanied father to the
steamer, and remained on board till it started.
When we parted he said to me, “Come with
your ma if you can, but I beg you not to stand
in the way of her coming but do all you can
to help her oft.” I had a great desire to go
back and make a visit; besides, I wanted to
see something of the world, and my feelings
were sorely tried, as well as my weak faith; in
fact, I was considerably disaffected, and like
many of our youth in these valleys, I imagined
that all was fair and beautiful without, and
that there my days would be one round of
pleasures; at all events, I was’ bound to go
whenever my mother went. She was feeble in
health and one or more of the little boys were
sick, and withal there seemed an unusual
gloom, or foreboding of something, they knew
not what. The following I extract from a let-
ter commenced at Legrand, Missouri. Father
writes:
   “ Although I bade you farewell this morning,
* * * no tongue could express my feelings.
What a pleasure it would have been if I could
have left you and the children well, and my
heaven on earth in less confusion—for my
home is my heaven here; but it was not so.
How my heart beats with sorrow and pain; I
feel as though it would melt within me. Every
thread and fibre in my body feel it so keenly.
It seems, sometimes, as though I could not en-
dure the things that lie before me; but God is
able to do all things for us, so hold on, my
dear Vilate, for my sake and those little chil-
dren that He has given us. O how I felt when
I left them! Before I began this letter I left
the boat and went on top of a mountain, and
offered up a prayer to the Lord, that peace
might be with us forever. 	*	*	*	
 “ 22d. We are at the mouth of the Mis-
souri river. I feel very unwell this morning—
did not get much sleep. I was conversing with
a lawyer from Pittsburg till near twelve o’clock,
and laid down on the table and took cold—the

[Column 2]
staterooms were all full when we got on. The
lawyer with whom I conversed said he was
confounded, and that I had knocked out all of
his props, and he was almost persuaded to be a
Christian—he should vote for Joseph Smith,
any how. He said I was one of the strangest
men that he had ever met. 	* *  *	 Elders
Wite, Miller and Dr. Young delivered speeches
on politics. It has been business times on
board this boat, but all good natured. This
morning we have taken the election, the difier-
ent candidates for President: For Joseph
Smith, four ladies and sixty-three gents; for
Clay, six ladies and twenty-seven gents; for
Van Buren, two ladies and thirteen gents; for
Cass, one; for Birny, two; Johnson. none;
Calhoun, none.
   There are one hundred and seventy passen-
gers, seventeen cabin passengers. Mormonism
is the topic this morning. I will be obliged to
stop writing for confusion.
   “ 23d. It was twelve o’clock when I got
into bed last night. William Smith came on
board before I was up. We have taken a boat
bound for Pittsburg—the best on the river. If
I could just look in and say good morning, and
see. that pleasant smile I so often get, and those
little children I so dearly love, what a comfort
it would be. I hope you will come with Elder
Adams; start by the 1st of July, lest the water
gets low. Remember me to Helen and Sarah
Ann Whitney, and tell them to be good girls
and cultivate union, and listen to counsel from
the proper source—then they will get the vic-
tory.”
   He wrote from Pittsburg, saying they ar-
rived May 30. They had had much peace and
good feeling, had preached four times between
there and St. Louis, and conversed most of the
time when awake upon religion and politics.
When he left us he had but fifty cents in
money, and he sent us things that cost nearly
twelve dollars, by Mr. Halliday, a merchant of
Nauvoo. He wrote in this letter: “ While at
Cincinnatti I had eleven dollars given me, with
which I bought the groceries, etc., which I sent
you, so you see how good the Lord is to us all
the day long. We held a meeting last night;
Elder Smith and myself spoke. We leave
here at two o’clock for Washington.”
   He wrote William a letter, dated Washing-
ton, June 3d, saying: “We arrived in this
city last evening just as the sun was setting.
We stopped one night in Cincinnatti. In the
morning at eight o’clock held a Conference,
and left at ten. Those who were on board at
Nauvoo came through with us to Pittsburg.
They were very hard on us when we went on
board, but after conversing with them became
very friendly, and said if that was the religion
we believed they would bid us God-speed, for it
was what they believed.
   “ We stopped one night at Pittsburg. Elder
William Smith and myself preached that night.
Next morning took steamer up the Monongo-
hela seventy-two miles, then took coach to this
place—were twelve days and a half coming.
We put up at the National Hotel—the best
house in the city. This is where the Prophet
stopped when here. Elder Wite and myself
went one "mile east of the Capitol, to one Mr.
Linsly’s, one of the richest men in Washing-
ton. His wife is a member of our church, and
also one of his servants. The old gentleman
took us through his vineyard and garden—has
all kinds of grapes and fruit trees. He has be-
tween two and three millions of silk worms; it
was a great sight. He is a friend to us and
likes our doctrine. When we left they invited
us to .come and make our home with them while
in the city.  *  *  *	 Judge Douglas
came in last evening and had a long chat with
us; says he will do anything for us that we
wish—will give us an introduction to several of
the Congressmen to-day. Says there is no
prejudice towards us in this place of any ac-

[Column 3]
count; all there is, is among the ignorant class.
Elder Pratt left here one week ago, Elder
Hyde has been gone some time. We feel well
in mind. 	* *  *  We went to see Judge
Douglas this morning; he was not well, so we
returned. The only time to get an interview
with these men is in the evening. *  *  *
   “ Now, my dear son, be tender with your
mother, for she is a kind mother; be patient
and mild, and use soft words. Also be kind
to Helen and the little boys; be a father to
them, and keep them out of the wet, and take
good care of your own health. Tell Mary to
do the same. I esteem her as my own daugh-
ter. Do not go hungry, nor in want, for I in-
tend that my family shall have what they need
for their comfort while I live. As wo have
only one life here, so let us do good and serve
the Lord with pure hearts, and speak evil of no
man. I have no fears but you will take good
care of things. I want you and Helen to
write me; Tell her I shall write to her when
I get time; I think much about her. It is
now twelve o’clock, and we are going up to the
Capitol.”
   The following is from another letter, dated
June 4th. Father says: " We went this morn-
ing to see Judge Sample—he is from Alton,
Illinois. He appeared friendly while with
him. There was another Judge came in; said
he, “Joe Smith has sent out fifty of his smart-
est men to preach his —— doctrine, and to
electioneer for him.” Said he had heard some
of them preach, and they were smart men.
Judge Sample asked him if he had ever seen
Joseph Smith. He answered he never had.
“ Judge, he is a Smart man,” said Sample; “ I
have one of his ' views,’ which is very good.”
Said he, “ These men are some of his (Smith’s)
society." “ Ah, indeed, are they ? Will Smith
get any votes in Illinois ?” Said Judge Sample,
“ They go strong in the West for him,”  *  *
It is all politics in the East, Congress has spent
three days on it; but it seems all stuff to me.
I cannot take any pleasure in these things any
more than I can in the religion of the sects-
   “ I feel humble and to cleave unto the Lord.
I can bear testimony that He is good to me all
the day long. I suffer less from fear than 
have hitherto done- I feel different, and as
though I had authority given me from God to
speak as though I had been sent of God, and
not as the scribes. After all, I suffer some be-
fore these great men; still they know nothing
of God, all they know is about the politics of
this world, and what is that ? Why, it is like
the sectarian religion, part true and part un-
true ; but a little more not true than true.”
			To be Continued.


SOME statistics that appear in the Figaro
show the extraordinary cost of a war to a Lon-
don daily paper. Outsiders consider that a
business of this kind is profitable to the owners
of journals; but it is in fact, for the most part,
ruinously expensive; nor can the increase
which may be presumed to take place in the
circulation of any possibility make up for the
cost of telegraphic despatches from the seat of
war. "Just now," says the Fiyaro, "by the
best available route, the London dailies have
to pay seven shillings and two pence for their
telegrams. The lowest average of the daily
paper is £1,000 per week; and the Standard
account is probably much higher." The Egyp-
tian campaign, too, has been more than usually
costly to the papers; for the correspondents
have been prevented from telegraphing their
messages in "skeleton" or condensed form;
whence it is not to be wondered at that "a col-
umn of leaded messages in a daily paper aver-
ages from £200 to £250," nor that "had the
Egyptian war lasted a year, the total sum
spent altogether, extra from ordinary expenses,
would have amounted to upwards of 50,000"


