TO ARCHIE AND LOUISE.

And so you have been to the Temple;
	'Tis years since I've seen you, dear boy,
But your mother's kind letters inform me;
	I wish you great pleasure and joy.

I know 'tis a hackneyed expression,
	With which careless lips often part,
But now, I repeat it in earnest.
	From the depths of a truth-loving heart.

I remember a shy little urchin,
	Whose affections were mine, all secure;
And now—he's a man—and is married—
	How time passes by, to be sure!

Please tell the young lady, the loved one,
	To whom you now fondly lay claim
You once had a favorite auntie,
	Called, then, by a similar name.

And tell her that aunt now expresses
	A tender regard for the twain,
So lately made one, and she wishes
	Their "honeymoon" never may wane.

It will not, if both can but cherish
	Sweet confidence, patience and trust
And guarding against selfish feelings,
	Be gen'rous as truly as just.

Of course you have married "an angel"—
	I believe young men always do this—
And to her, you're the "noblest of heroes,"
	Else, where is perfection in bliss?

Aut consider, when in the near future
	Some little misdoing occurs,
And you find she is only a woman,
	'Twas your mistake, surely, not hers.

Don't censure her, then, for not being
	What she never professed to have been;
Be as anxious to keep her affections
	As once you were eager to win.

If you're young, I suppose she is younger;
	Both, at times, will be certain to err;
But while you yourself are imperfect,
	Expect not perfection in her.

Don't think it is childish to praise her,
	Let whispers and actions both tell,
That ever, in your estimation,
	Her graces are sure to excel.

As honest with her as with others;
	Give credit for all that she earns;
Encourage her efforts to please you,
	By compliments, and—by returns.

Should you differ at times, yet be humble,
	And ready at once to forgive;
Set your wife an untarnished example,
	And live as you wish her to live.

Louise, keep on thinking, forever,
	You've married the very best man;
You have chosen to stand as his helpmate,
	So help him as much as you can.

Don't speak of his faults, but his virtues
	Be first to acknowledge and praise;
Help love to grow surer and stronger,
	By thousands of sweet, happy ways.

I had not a thought of advising,
	When seated to hastily write,
And now, both my babies are sleepy—
	Dear niece and dear nephew, goodnight!

Salt Lake City, February, 1882.				LULA.


[Column 1]
