EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIEF Society was organized in Oakley,
Cassia Co., Idaho, in September, by Apostles F.
M. Lyman, J. H. Smith and H. J. Grant.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Associations will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Fri-
day and Saturday, December 15 and 16.

	WE have received, per A. C., a summary, of
the doings of a party in honor of Mrs. Wilmirth
East's birthday, held at Smithville, Arizona
The affair was under the auspices of the Young
Ladies' Association. Mrs. East was for many
years an active worker in the benevolent socie-
ties and for woman's higher advancement in
this city. Almost four years ago she removed
to Arizona, and presides over the Relief Societies
of Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion.

	THANKSGIVING Day is past, and all the gay
festivities of that happy occasion are over. We
still remember the delights of the elegant din-
ners, served with such hospitality and freedom to
all. There is no people who can appreciate more
fully blessings from heaven than the Latter-day
Saints. They have received miraculous mani-
festations of God's goodness in marvelous ways,
and have ever acknowledged his divine interpo-

[Column 2]
sition in their behalf. Therefore do they praise
Him, and render gratitude and thanksgiving,
and while they are mindful of his mercy ex-
tended to all his creatures, and rejoice in his
munificent blessings, they do not forget that
"obedience is better than sacrifice."

	A SOCIETY of ladies, called the "Unity Club,"
has been organized recently in this city, to work
and to give entertainments for benevolent pur-
poses, notably the Deseret Hospital, two meet-
ings have already been held, and it is expected
an entertainment will be given by the society
sometime between Christmas and New Years,
probably Dec. 29, in the 12th Ward Hall. Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Margaret G. Clawson;
Vice President, Clara J. Young; Secretary,
Emma Riggs; Treasurer, Annie W. Cannon.
There are several committees to arrange for en-
tertainments. The initiatory fee is one dollar
each, and the Club is limited to fifty members.

	ON Thanksgiving Day, in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Mr. Evan Stephens' classes in
singing were on exhibition, going through their
exercises in an interesting manner, in presence
of the whole assembly. Bro. Stephens gave a
synopsis of his methods of imparting instruction.
The singing by the children was effectively ren-
dered. The writing was a new feature of a mu-
sical exhibition. There has been no pains spared
on the part of the teacher to make the little ones
proficient in this most pleasing and attractive
science. It is a rare opportunity for the children
of Zion to receive musical training, and the cul-
tivation of the voice in childhood is a desirable
attainment. Bro. Stephens deserves patronage
and aid in the arduous labor he has undertaken.

	ANOTHER new book, deserving marked notice,
is a small pamphlet by Elder John Jaques,
"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints—Its Priesthood, Organization, Doctrines,
Ordinances and History." This is given in the
most concise manner, yet clear and forcible, with
references to larger works. The last two pages
contain the testimony of the three witnesses to
the Book of Mormon. It covers more ground
than any other small work, and will be very
useful to give strangers correct ideas of our prin-
ciples and history in a few words. As a sort of
tract for distribution outside the Church, it will
do very great good in spreading the truth. Price
10 cents. For sale at "Deseret News'" Office.

	ON Tuesday morning Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for Washington. Hon. John T.
Caine, the Delegate for Utah, also started for
the Capitol, accompanied by F. S. Richards, of
the constitutional delegation. At Ogden they
were joined by D. H. Peery and wife. W. W.
Riter, James Sharp and W. D. Johnson will go
after the busy holidays are over. What Con-
gress will do for Utah, in the way of justice "no
man knoweth." Utah has rights that demand
recognition, though Congress has been exceed-
ingly slow in admitting any claims; it is a a long
road that never turns, and who can tell but In-
advertently something may be done to benefit
this flourishing, enterprising Territory.

	PRIMARY Speaker, No. 1, so long promised to
the smaller children, is now ready. It is particu-
larly well adapted for the use of the little folks
from four to ten years old. The selections are
all of the very best and choicest composition
both poetry and prose, many by home writers.
No pains has been spared by the editor and com-
piler in preparing and arranging this little work
for the press; the type is very large and clear,
and the book should meet with ready sale.
"Sister Eliza" has labored arduously and dili-
gently, early and late, untiringly, in preparing
books for the children, but it has been a labor of
love. This is the fifth of the collection of her


works for the Primary Associations. First the
Primary Hymn Book, then the Music Book,
Bible Questions and Answers, Primary Speaker
No. 2, and now the volume here noticed, No. 1.
The books are for sale at the "Deseret News"
Office and WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Price twenty-
five cents.

	MRS E. L. Saxon, whose visit to Utah we
mentioned in our last number, delivered her lec-
ture on "Women in all Reforms, Past, Present
and Future," on Monday evening, Nov. 27, in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city, to
an interested and appreciative audience. Mrs.
Saxon is a clear and rapid speaker, has a great
flow of language, and throws her whole soul into
her labor. She seems wholly forgetful of self,
but eulogizes her fellow-workers who have done
so much to elevate woman, and through her lift
up mankind. She believes woman's greatest
power for good lies in the ballot, because through
that she becomes a positive factor in law and
law-making, and consequently in education, as
well as in society. The lady is fully awakened
to the sense of the fact that the government
needs props, and believes that the best purifier
and renovator for the present state of things
will be women at the polls. Equality before the
law is what these noble workers are asking at
the hands of government; they have labored ar-
duously, struggled against prejudice, tradition
and various obstacles, but the future brightens
somewhat, for prejudice is giving way and ad-
vancement for the sex is hastening on. Mrs.
Saxon went to Provo on Thursday, with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, to make further observations.
Besides looking over the city, the two ladies at-
tended the Conference of the Primary Associa-
tions and Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah Stake. Mrs.
Saxon has a national reputation. She has trav-
eled and spoken in public in the various States
from Lousiana to Maine. She has had many
flattering newspaper notices from leading jour-
nals. Senator Blair, of New Hampshire, said,
"I consider Mrs. Saxon one of the most talented
ladies in the United States, and among the most
effective speakers I have ever heard."


