Y. L. M. I. A. PROVO.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah
Stake held in the Provo Meeting House, Aug.
31 1882. President Emily Cluff presiding.
Present on the stand Pres. Elmina S. Taylor,of
S. L. Pres. Emily G. Cluff, Counselors Zina
Y. Williams and Jennie Tanner, Sister M. T.
Smoot. After the opening exercises, the re-
ports of 13 societies were given which were
very satisfactory and showed marked improve-
ment. Counselor Zina Yi Williams said, she
did not see a face before her, but what she
knew, and through these associations had
learned to love. Now is one of the most trying
times we have ever had, and we know it is nec-
essary to attend to our duties. We hear
through all the counties, the same cry, that
not enough of the members come to meeting,
but we see those that do, have intelligent ideas
and desire io gain more experience by associat-
ing with others that do go. There is not a soul
in God's kingdom but what has something to
do, and we can accomplish more than any
other nation on earth, for we are, or ought to
be, one and all working for the same object.
	President E. S. Taylor said, she felt acquain-
ted with most of the faces, and felt proud of
Utah Stake for it was the only county in which
they had visited every place. We do not want
to have too much education of the world, but
to come to these meetings and learn of God.
Our old veterans are passing away and we want
these young ladies to take their place. Was
pleased to hear some of them say they had good
testimony meetings, but would not frighten the
young ladies away on account of their speak-
ing, but tell them they need not speak till they
feel like they want too. She spoke on the
Hospital business, and prayed for the Spirit of
God to rest down upon us.
	Sister M. T. Smoot was pleased and over-
joyed with meeting with them, and exhorted
her sisters to continue on in well doing, and if
she could be allowed the expression, that if all
hell was arrayed against us, if we trusted in
the Lord, they could not harm us; and if we
did right all our clouds would have a broad
silver lining. Pres. Emily G. Cluff said she
felt sorry to see so few present, and that they
were nearly all officers with us, and if we can-
not have them any other way, we will have to
make them all officers. Then gave the remain-
der of the meeting open to testimonies. Meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m., singing "We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet. Benediction by
Zina Y. Williams.
	Meeting held per adjournment singing "We
thank thee O, God for Prophet," 'prayer by

[Column 2]
Elder Robert Till, singing "I'll serve the Lord"
Miss Annie Smart recited a peice "Utah what
it was, what it is and what it shall be."
	Pres. E. S. Taylor said,she was pleased to meet
with them again in Conference, for it was so
pleasing to see the young sisters going on and
helping in the work of God. Nothing can be
more sad than to see our daughters taking the
downward course. but our joy cannot be told
when we see them going on and improving
in this way, and these young ladies must be on
the improvement so as to make them better
wives and better mothers in Israel, for these
daughters raise our future prophets, seers, rev-
elators and missionaries; girls, keep good com-
pany, have nothing to do with our enemies, if
they are sick administer to them, if they are
hungry feed them, but that is all. They pity
the down-trodden women of Israel. Now in
my heart I feel to pity them, be gentlemen and
ladies in every respect, but do not associate with
them. Look around you and see those who
have married [outside of the Church, see how
their happiness fades, go before the Lord my
dear sisters, and ask Him to find you the right
mate. There are some of us who associate with
folks who appear to be our warmest friends,
but when they leave this pure mountain air
and go back where there is so much said
against us, they turn away from us and help
misrepresent us; therefore my sisters be inde-
pendent, and if you think you cannot find good
company go by yourself and always keep in
remembrance that improvement is our motto
and perfection our aim.
	Encouraging remarks were then made by
Sisters Zina Y. Williams and Prest. Emily G.
Cluff, who urged the sisters to treasure up the
words which had been spoken, for it would
prove an untold blessing to them. Urged
them to keep in mind the Hospital and silk
business. Meeting adjourned for six months.
Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Benediction by Elder J. T. Arrowsmith.
				EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.
				ANNIE L. JONES, Sec'y.
	Provo City, October 9.


