MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Concluded.

	We have given only the outlines of the life
of the lady who forms the subject of this
sketch, but her domestic associations, her actual
self-sacrifices, her consecration to religious duty,
the inner life of the woman we cannot pretend
to portray. We simply give what we see from
the outside. The heart knoweth its own griev-
ances or joys.
	Mrs. Horne's family are certainly a great
credit to her training and example. The chil-
dren are following in wisdom's ways, and seek-
ing to obtain an exaltation hereafter. This is
the happiest result that a mother could desire.
	On the occasion of the demise of her
daughter-in-law (Lydia Weiler, daughter of
Bishop Weiler of the Third Ward of this

[Column 2]
city), Mrs. Horne, after attending her through
a very severe illness, took the babe six
weeks old to raise. She was at that time
sixty years of age, and her hands and heart
full of public work, yet her large motherly
heart opened to the little orphaned one,
and she took it to her maternal bosom,
and cherishes it as her very own. After hav-
ing reared a large family and seen them take
their places in the world's busy workshop,
to be able physically and mentally to go forth
into a wider field of action, and labor for hu-
manity, is something grand and high. That
there are women who can do this, and perform
their part well, we are proud to record. And
why should we not appreciate and honor those
who are willing to devote their lives, their hap-
piness, and their sacred honor to do good to
the human family? Mrs. Horne has been an
officer and active worker in the silk industry
ever since the culture was introduced into this
country. She is at the present time a member
of the board of directors of the Deseret Silk
Association. At the time of the organization
of the board of officers for the Deseret Hos-
pital in May, 1882, Mrs. Horne was elected
Chairman of the Executive Committee. This
institution has taken much executive ability to
establish, and Mrs. Horne has given efficient
aid in this labor, and still continues to do so.
	Mrs. Horne's large family have each been
called upon to fill positions of trust and useful-
ness at various times. Her eldest son, Henry,
was for eleven years Bishop in Paris, Idaho; in
1880 he moved to Arizona, to assist in coloniz-
ing there, and was appointed Counselor to
David P. Kimball. It takes men of energy
and determination to settle up new tracts
of country. Joseph, when about twenty
years of age, was called on a mission of three
years and a half to Switzerland, where he ob-
tained a thorough knowledge of the German
language; on his return he was called to be
Bishop of Gunnison, Sanpete Co., which posi-
tion he held for ten years, when he was again
called to Switzerland to preside over the Swiss
and German mission, and to edit the Stern,
published in Berne, being absent from home a
year and a half. In 1878 he was called to be
Bishop in Richfield, Sevier Co., which position
he still occupies; is also Mayor of that city.
Richard, who resides at present in this city, is
engaged as a teacher, a profession he is par-
ticularly well adapted to fill. While residing
in Beaver a few years since he was Superin-
tendent of the Sunday School, and has filled
several home missions. John, the youngest
son, was the first President of the Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Association in the Four-
teenth Ward in this city, and is a good, faith-
ful Elder in Israel.
	Mrs. Horne's daughters are not a whit be-
hind her sons in intellectual capacity and de-
velopment. Lizzie, the eldest daughter, and
wife of Edward Webb, lives at Deseret, Mil-
lard Co., and is a womanly woman, who might
grace any society. Like her mother, she has
borne a large family, fourteen children, and as
yet has had no spare time to devote to public
duties. Nora, the second daughter, wife of
George Spencer, son of Orson Spencer, some-
what famous in Church history for his valua-
ble writings as well as great missionary work
in America and Europe, resides in Paris,
Idaho; we have stated before in this biographi-
cal sketch, that Mrs. Spencer was a strong-
minded woman; no doubt some time in the fu-

[Column 3]
ture she will come before the public as an ac-
tive worker. At present she is Treasurer of
the Relief Society in the town where she re-
sides, and renders good service to those with
whom she is associated in the work. She has
had eight children, and is a most devoted wife
and mother. Julia married William S. Bur-
ton, and died in childbed in her first confine-
ment, leaving a baby girl that died at the age
of eleven months. She was a beautiful and
attractive woman. At the first organization of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Fourteenth Ward,
she was chosen President. At the re-organiza-
tion of that Association a few years later, Miss
Cornelia Horne was made President; she was
also for three or four years Business Manager
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and is a very
talented young lady. She has a magnificent
voice, and has sung considerably before the
public. She is the wife of James Clayton and
the mother of two little boys, and will doubt-
less have a large family, like her mother and
sisters. Minnie, her twin sister, was for several
years Secretary of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and the Sunday School in the ward. Since
her marriage to Wm. James she has been chosen
President of the Primary Association of the
Seventh Ward. She has one little daughter,
and the brightest prospects before her. The
two unmarried daughters are great helps and
blessings in the home, devoted to their parents
and their religion.
	Mrs. Horne has endured much hardship, and
encountered dangers and severe storms, in trav-
eling through the settlements. At one time
going from Mayfield, Sanpete Co., to Salina,
Sevier Co., in company with "Sister Eliza,"
the driver mistook the way, and they were
lost in the mountains for some hours, where
there was no road or track of man or beast,
and they were jostled and shaken about fear-
fully, besides not knowing whether they wonld
reach a human habitation before nightfall. At
another time, coming through the mountain
canons from Provo valley, the snow storm was
so severe that it was almost impossible to travel
at all; but Mrs. Horne and her traveling com-
panion, Mrs. Howard, were wrapped in quilts,
over all their own wraps, and had a wagon
cover fastened securely around them, to protect
them from the inclement weather, as they were
journeying in an open vehicle. To those who
may think it all pleasure so to travel among the
people and speak in public, these facts will be
educational, as we often hear of people saying,
"Oh, these women, they like that sort of thing;
it's from choice they tramp over the country
and speak on the platform." It is a stern
sense of duty, and not pleasure, that induces
our women to take up this heavy cross. And
indeed, what else should tempt them? They
have happy homes and pleasant surroundings,
they do not speak for money, they are not paid
for the service they render the people, and
therefore one may naturally conclude they are
working for Zion just as faithfully as the El-
ders who go out to preach the Gospel, only in
another department of the labor.
	In concluding this little historic review of
the life of one of the leading women of the
Church, we cannot refrain from saying it is a
satisfaction to present the incidents of such
lives to the public, that the young people grow-
ing up around us may know what kind of
women helped to lay the foundation of this
Latter-day work.
	November 20th was the anniversary of Mrs.


Horne’s birthday, and a few of her friends
spent a pleasant evening at her residence. She
was presented by the ladies with a very hand-
some photograph album, with the promise of a
picture from each one of them, to make the
group complete. Congratulatory remarks were
made by several of the ladies present, and
toasts given by Mayor Jennings and Judge
Miner, the lady herself responding in a very
happy and appreciative manner. Mr. and
Mrs. Horne have been married over forty-six
years, and there is every prospect that they
will be able to celebrate their “golden wed-
ding." May peace, prosperity, and domestic
felicity continue to be their lot in life, and
an eternal exaltation hereafter be the reward
of their faithful labors.	E.	B.	W.


