WOMEN AND MEDICAL SOCIETIES.

	EDITOR JOURNAL:—For several years, while
women have been so persistently knocking at
the door of the "Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety," I have been wondering, now that the

[Column 2]
number of women physicians is so large, and
constantly increasing, why they do not organize
a society themselves. Since women are capable
of fitting themselves to be either doctors, law-
yers, or ministers, they are capable of organizing
and carrying on a medical society of their own,
that shall be an honor to their profession, and
acknowledged as such by like societies through
out the country. We certainly feel that there
is intellect and talent combined with medical
knowledge and experience sufficient to carry on
such a society.
	I believe that the refusal of the "Massachu-
setts Medical Society" to open its doors to
women physicians, comes from a conscientious
conviction that it is not for the best interest of
physicians of both sexes, and though I may not
agree with that conviction, still I have no right
to say that it is from narrow-minded prejudice.
The majority of the members of that society are
broad-minded men of sterling integrity, who
believe in the good work women physicians
are doing, and would not put a stumbling block
in the way of their success. I am not willing
to admit that women are not capable of having
as good a society as the "Massachusetts Medi-
cal," and did I belong to the corps of women
physicians in our city, I should lend my influ-
ence to organizing a society, be it ever so small
in the beginning. Said society should hold
regular meetings as often as deemed advisable
by the very best talent of the physicians of both
sexes in the state and country.
	I say—both sexes, for I think we should not
separate them, or feel that simply because we
are women, all knowledge must be gained
through women. Let us accept, as helpers in
the good work, all experience and suggestions,
from whatever source they may come. In
time, such a society would become a help, and
a power in the community.
	This course seems to me much wiser than to
keep on seeking admission into the other so-
ciety; and no one would give a "Women's State
Medical Society" a more hearty Godspeed than
the "Massachusetts Medical Society." I
frequently read our Boston Medical and Surg-
ical Journal, as well as several others published
elsewhere, and am surprised seldom or never
to find an article from a woman physican. So
far as I know, there is no law forbidding wom-
en to write for the various medical journals,
There is no surer way of helping on the cause
of woman than by women expressing, through
the press, their opinions upon all matters of
general interest to the public, whether it be
upon medical or other subjects. Men will
gladly acknowledge their worth, and even those
who have no special interest in our cause, will
in time acknowledge that we are equal to dis-
cussing with them important questions pertain-
ing to state and country. Surely women are
interested in political affairs, (we should be,) in
civil service reform, and the many questions
daily brought before the country, upon the
right intrepretation of which the future well-
being of our country depends. Yet we seldom
see in our daily papers anything bearing upon
these public questions by a woman.
	There is no surer way of women obtaining
the ballot upon all questions, than by proving
their competency to vote intelligently, and in
no way can a woman prove it so well, as by
expressing publicly the views she holds upon
all matters pertaining to legislation.
	Let the women of Massachusetts put their
shoulders to the wheel in earnest, and they
will wield a powerful influence, not only for
the good of womankind, but for the uplifting
of humanity.						E. E. B.
	Woman's Journal, Boston.


[Column 1]
	Archimedes invented the slang phrase,
"Give us a rest," when he offered top move the
world with his lever.

[Column 2]
KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Children's Hoods
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
