EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Your little paper coming to us is a source of
great pleasure, and, I think we can truly say,
of much profit; for anything that breaks down
prejudice and bigotry does good, and benefits
not only those immediately concerned, but the
good will, eventually, leaven the whole lump.
Years ago the word "Mormonism" expressed
to me all that was wicked, low and revolting,

[Column 2]
and I would, like Joan of Arc, have led the
troops to destroy the Mormon church. To-day
I, though not fully persuaded in my own mind
that you are really. as you claim, God's chosen
people, am willing to calmly investigate your
claims, and to openly defend you when bitter
words are spoken, by persons who know you
only through the reports of your enemies. All
Christendom takes the Bible as the standard
measure for churches; applying it to the Mor-
mon church, we find,
	1st, You believe in God, the Creator of all
things, and in Jesus, His Son, who died to re-
deem the world.
	2d, You preach faith, repentance, and obe-
dience to divine commands as laid down in
God's Holy Word.
	3d, You have gone into all the world to
preach to every creature.
	4th, You have come out from the world to
be a "peculiar people."
	So far, at least, according to the measure-
ment, you are right. Now, according to scrip-
ture, we must judge a tree by its fruits—"men
do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of this-
tles." What are your fruits? Do you show
forth the fruits of the Spirit? (Gal. v.) A few
unprejudiced persons throughout the country
are willing to have the question fairly tested,
and as nearly every daily "News" we pick up
has some reference to the Mormons (something,
generally, against them), the public mind is
turned toward them, and many persons, with a
sense of fair judgment, do not believe the mere
say so of your enemies, but are led to inquire
if these things are so.
	The readers of to-day's Cincinnatti Gazette
will find an extract from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune; many will roll it as a sweet morsel under
the tongue, as proof that the Mormons are a I-
told-you-so-terrible set of people, forgetting,
meanwhile, that such bad things, just such bad
things are being done here, right here within
the grand old State of Ohio, all the time.
	Perhaps it was true that "a Mormon gave
the children of his first wife away to unkind
strangers, and cared not for their welfare," but
was it because he was a Mormon?
	One of my neighbors (being a widower)
married a second wife. The daughter of his
first wife was an innocent, simple-hearted girl,
and an annoyance to the second wife, so went
from home to earn her living, notwithstanding
her father was wealthy. A young man took
advantage of the girl's simplicity, and she be-
came a mother. The stepmother gave her no
care, forced her to go to work in a few days
after her child was born; she died, and was
buried without any funeral or attention.
	The whole family are strict Catholics, but
no one charged the crime to the Catholic
church. They were wickedly selfish, unfeeling
persons, and would have been so if they had
not belonged to any church, or if they had
chanced to belong to any one of the orthodox
churches.
	I used to hear a burlesque sermon preached
from the text, "A mon ish a mon if he ish no
pigger ish my thume." 'Tis true, if a man is,
by nature, bad, Christianity, Catholicism, Mor-
monism, or any other ism, will not make him
worse. He is an injury to religion, but the re-
ligion cannot injure him (unless he becomes a
bigot); neither should a religion be condemned
because of his badness.
	Right is right, and wrongs no man. The
Tribune may, by constantly drawing public at-
tention to the Mormon church, lead many
thinking minds to inquire closely into its work-
ings, and if it can bear the examination, well
and good—"If this counsel or this work be of
men, it will come to naught; but if it be of
God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be
found even to fight against God." Acts v.
		With good wishes,
