REFLECTIONS.

	There is a great field for reflection in these pe-
culiar times, and as I sit and meditate upon the
past, and the present, and look forward into the
future, and wonder what will come next, my
mind turns to that good old book, the Bible, that
tells us of these events that will come to pass,
prophesied of many hundred years ago. Are
they coming? Yes, verily, they are, just as the
prophets said they would. How do we look at
all these signs and wonders? Are they not a
great testimony to us that we are the true
Church? I think so. 
	Now, my mind wanders back to my childhood
in that dear old home in the far East, where
everything is beauty. Pen cannot describe nor
picture the grandeur of the scenery of that far-
off home—the orchard, the brook, and the well,
with its heavy bucket and sweep pole, that
raised the cool nectar in the moss-covered bucket
as it rose from the well; the nice, pleasant arbor,

[Column 2]
with the grape vines and honeysuckle twining
over it, the swent-scented lilac and the snow-
ball wafting their sweet perfume, as I sat in the
cool shade on the charming rustic seat, reading
and chatting with fond associates; and the
quaint old church, with its pews with cushioned
seats, its tall steeple with clock and bell, its
stained window glass, long aisles and high pulpit,
where the pastor read his sermon to the congre-
gation each Sabbath; not forgetting the low,
brick schoolhouse, where I first learned to pro-
nounce the a b abs, and progress along to read,
write and spell, and other lessons that are never
forgotten. I muse, what caused me to wander
from those scenes of beauty I loved so well? It
was the love of truth, the desire to be a follower
of Christ, and to obey the Gospel sound, which
was dear to me. The desire to rear my littie
ones away from the influence of the wicked and
of priestcraft in the valleys of the mountains,
amongst the servants of God. My home here
is far lovelier to me, although my thoughts will
wander and travel very rapidly at times. Do I
pine for those scenes? No; my home is with
the Saints of God, no matter where they are. 
	I love my country and I love liberty, that my
forefathers fought to gain. Do we have it? It
seems not. This boasted land of liberty, where
we who were born in America, in a free country,
are not allowed the freedom of the ballot! Our
enemies have wrung it from us. What for? Be-
cause we dare to worship the true and living
God, profess to be Latter-day Saints, obey the
commandments of our Heavenly Father, claim
that the Gospel is again restored to the earth,
believe in a prophet of the last days, and that
the light of truth is never more to be taken
from the earth. I rejoice to be numbered
amongst them, although my friends think I am
deluded and gone astray; but I know in whom
we trust, and at last we will gain the victory,
and then we will have freedom. Whose turn
will it be then? Ah, those who wish to crush us
now, will see when it is too late. 
	A word for this far off corner of Utah. The
health of the people is good, there being but lit-
tle sickness. Our elder brother, Joel H. John-
son, departed this life the 24th of September, at
the advanced age of eighty years, six months
and one day. He was a firm Latter-day Saint,
and has passed through many trials and perse-
cutions. He has fought the good fight, and gone
hence to rest with the just. He leaves a large
family to mourn his loss. 
	Our little Relief Society and Primary are in
a prosperous condition, and all have a desire to
help build up the kingdom of God in these last
days. The last number of the EXPONENT is be-
fore me. In glancing over its columns, many
reflections flit through my mind of former scenes
in the early history of the church, and what we
may have to pass through ere long. We have
no need to fear, our Heavenly Father hath prom-
ised; in Him we trust.
	Johnson, Utah.		JANE C. JOHNSON.


[Column 1]
