SUGGESTIONS ABOUT TRAINING
BOYS.

	In the nature of almost every boy there are
four powerful infllittlees at work, which tend
if they are wisely used, to strengthen or weaken
his moral character, viz
	1. His restlessness, or desire to be doing
something, which is the cause of many of his
troubles (and of his mother's also).	
	2. His great craving for companionship, and
what he calls "fun," which seems to be a nec-
essity to most, healthy boys.
	3. His fear of ridicule, which in many boys
is so great that they can be induced to sin
against conscience and stomach in order to es-
cape it.
	4. The desire to be or to appear manly.
	The boy carries these four influences with
him always, and it is a contest between us and
Satan as to who shall control them, and the
boy’s fate depends much on the issue of this
contest. He is worth all the bravest efforts
that can be made in his behalf. He is worth
more than all the gold or honor or station you
can win.
	If you love him more than you love these
things, and even than you love yourself or
your own ease and comfort, you can, with the
Lord’s help, hold him safe against " the world,
the flesh, and the devil." But you must be
"wise as serpents." Too much restraint will
chafe and embitter. Too little is sure to end
in ruin.
	You must make your child happy, for it is
true " that discontent is the cause of the most
of the wickedness in the world." You must
let him see that you eagerly desire his happi-


[Column 1]
﻿ness, and that he has your warmest sympathies
in his efforts to find it. If he sees that you
put off his gratification to suit your own con-
venience, he will suspect your lack of sympa-
thy. If he sees you break your promise to
him, or grant him an indulgence that you have
said was improper for him, he will doubt your
sincerity. If he sees you guilty of "make-
believes," or false pretensions, or shams of any
sort whatever, you have lost his confidence
and respect, and may expect soon to lose his
affection and then to lose your hold of him.
	Children are very close and shrewd observ-
ers of human nature, and not easily deceived.
Your only hope is in dealing honestly and sin-
cerely with them. But how shall you make
them happy? I have asked this question a
thousand times in school, and my answer is, by
keeping them occupied in pleasurable employ-
ments.
	Boys love to play, and that is your great last
resort. But they also love to work, at things
they can do specially well. Then do you see
to it, when you give them work to do, or a les-
son to learn, that you show them how to do it
really well, and then accept it as well done. A
school becomes restive and unhappy whenever
there is not enough work to keep the pupils
busy, or when they do not know how to do it.
Let all your instructions and directions be
clearly stated, and do not cut out too much
work, but insist upon having every task that
has been assigned fully and thoroughly exe-
cuted.
	You must make them your companions. The
boy who is in love with his mother and sister,
and looks upon his father as the very king of
men, cannot easily be won away from them.
But he must be met half way, for if he feels
that he is only tolerated as a nuisance, and finds
himself charged with all the little offenses that
have been committed, he will be powerfully
tempted to meet your expectations and make
your bill of indictment a true one. Make him
feel, at home, he is more than the prince of the
blood, that his wants and wishes are always
worth considering, and that even his opinion
and good-will are of some worth. Knit him
to you by ties of a kind that Satan cannot
knit. You have possession of the citadel;
why should you be driven from it? It can
only be by your own fault. Loyalty to you is
deep-rooted in your boy's nature, and if you
are wise and alert he cannot be seduced from
his allegiance to you.
	Do you know what is the most common
weakness displayed by boys? It is a fear that
their manhood is questioned, accompanied by
an overwhelming desire to vindicate it. To be
ridiculed as a "muff," or sneered at as a "baby,"
or a "mamma boy," is often enough to make
him try tobacco, although he knows it will
make him deathly sick; or fight, or swear, or
other things equally repugnant to his nature,
and all because he feels that something of the
sort is necessary to establish his manliness.
Some people laugh at such things, and some,
rather more severe in their judgments, say that
such nousense shonld be thrashed out of them.
The fact is, the most spirited boys, under such
trials, deserve the profoundest sympathy; for in
most cases, they have not been properly trained
and fortified to resist such powerful tempta-
tions. I have known boys, when subjected to
them, to observe a calm and cool indifference
to sneer and laugh, but it was because they
were conscious of strength or skill which soon
made them recognized as leaders.
	Last, and most important of all, you must
give your boy sound religious instruction, for
nothing else is so essential to his safety and
usefulness amid the temptations and struggles
of life. But there is a wise and unwise way of
imparting it. Do not let Sunday be a dread
day to him, but make it bright by reason of

[Column 2]
your special and most loving attention to your
children, and your sweetest little ways of en-
tertaining them. It will be hard on you, but
God will love you for it, and your children will
remember it gratefully and lovingly, long years
after you rave crossed the river.—PROF. H. L.
