PATIENCE PEABODY'S ANSWER.

	I'd been sufferin' with nuralgi nigh on tu
haf an hour, when ses I tu myself, ses I, Pa-
tience, you'd better be lookin'after Sam, or
he'll be inter mischief. So down I cum, and
hid behind the door, and heerd all his yarn.
	I listened with the patience of a Jobess and
the wisdom of a Shebe. I thought and thought
till I was tired o' thoughting, and now that
Sam's gone, I'll be obleeged to make this mat-
ter straight. I couldn't help laffin' to see how
scairt he was for fear I'd cum. Well, he seems
tu know pretty well our feelin' ginerally, but
he's rather mistaken on a few pints. The fact
is, the men folks seem to know mighty little
about our rights, nor ther own either, for the
matter of that.
	Our Mother Eve was a lady, and Father
Adam knowed his place, and follered her; and
I stick tu it, that it's nothin' but right fur his
great-grandsons to walk in the same lane, and
foller tu. The critter thought we was nappin'
Catch a woman asleep when she's taking items
No, sur, we were wide awake and have been so
disgusted with the critters that we're a gwine
to take our proper place, and let 'em help it if
they can. Sam ses we're a a gwine to chuse a
lady for our next President, and quite right,
tu. For the last forty years it has been one
long crow about them plaguey Mormons. Now,
what I want tu know is this- if they like tu do


as Solomon did, and hav a thousand wives,
whose business is it as long as they don't come
David on it, and run away with somebody
elses. I tell you what it is, I'll bet you a pun-
kin pie thar's more Davids in Congress than
Solomon's; and as fur them knots they're try-
in' tu untie, ther kind o' Indian rubber like—
abaut the time they think ther untied, they
roll right up agin, and the untiers become con-
flumxed.
	Sam was quite right about the new law we're
a gwine to enact, only he furgot one pint, that
is, not only them that's cotcht minding some-
bod'ys business, but them that believes its right
to think about ennybody's business, or look at
that businesses wife, shall be tuk up and tried
fur polygamy; an' if that don't make some of
them Congressmen squeal, then my name aint
Patience.
	As fur Senator Vest, an' a few others, we
have sum respect fur them, because they've
enuff sens left tu tell what belongs to the Con-
stitution and that's considerable mor'n I can
say fur the rest. 
	As furthat big bug that Edmunds has hatcht
out, it looks mighty big, as if it was a gwine
to swaller all them little polly-bugs up; but
these polly-bugs are curis critturs, and a good
deal like Mr. Paddy's flee—you cotch 'em, an'
lift your finger tu look 'em right square in the
face, and goodness gracious! they aint thar. 
	We're gwine to chuse five committees, of
three wimmen in each, to wait on the five com-,
missioners every morning before breakfast,
each woman to deliver a speech an hour long
on her own constitutional rights. I'll venture
a saucer of apple butter that, in three days,
these just men will deliver Edmunds and his
bug tu the keeping of Hamlet's gost. Wim-
men are growin' higher and bigger in this
world, but they don't intend to go so high that
they'll cum down cursquash like Parson New-
man.
	Sam made a leetle mistake about frills; we
are perfectly willin' fur 'em tu wear frills on
ther pantaloons, but we don't want 'em to have
a frill a quarter of a yard wide on the bosom
of ther shirts, or dickeys; it looks tu much
like a rooster's comb, and of all things we des-
pise is roosters—they are so etarnally a crow-
in'.
	We don't care one cent about looking in ther
letters, but we are so scairt they'll get into
trouble—the men are so unkimmen soft. 
	The reason we fix on nine o'clock fur 'em tu
cum in nights, is becaus they allers stay out all
night, and cum hum with the crows in the
morning. About haf a year agone thar was tu
be a big meeting, so we said we'd give till
'leven that night. But did they come? No,
sir; not till the roosters was callin' up the little
chickens. We ran to the door with open arms,
but oh, my fellur citizens! what a fall was
there? We brung 'em in, roosted ther little
feet, and put 'em in ther little bed, when we
drew ourselves up as tall as our manhood, and
was determined we'd stand it no longer.
	As fur them shirts bein' starcht wrong, you
remember what the scriptur ses about lookin'
inter a dark glass, and so forth; that's just
what it means—the critturs look through that
dark glass what's got that cool beverage in, and
gits ther shirts wrong side up.
	Well, gintlemen, I guess I've sed as much as
you can digest tu-day, so I'll go hum, put my
feet in hot water, and take a dose of asoefetida
and penerial, to compose my narves.
