WOMAN'S RIGHT OF DOWER.

	The right of dower in Utah has been the
theme of much discussion in private and public,
in the press of the country and among the offi-
cials of the Territory. They acknowledge they
are sore on this subject, and think it an outrage
to the people that the right of dower should have
been abolished by the Legislature of Utah. Any
rational person who examines the ground care-
fully, without prejudice, would say at once that
the statutes of Utah as regards married women
and widows, is far in advance of the right of
dower as existing in most of the States of the
Union.
	In Utah woman holds her own property—her
husband cannot touch it; in most of the States
the husband can not only squander his wife's
income, but he can collect her earnings and
squander it at the gaming table or in the grog-
shop, just as he pleases or chooses. Not long
since, a lady related to the writer a little incident
illustrative of the very deplorable condition of
woman's right to her own earnings. The lady
was traveling on the train. She was a student
of human nature, and had noticed a very pale,
delicate-looking girl, sensitive and shrinking,
with a book in her hand; the lady was interested
in the appearance of the child, and opened a
conversation with her by inquiring where she
was going? She answered to the next village;
her father was with her, going on to collect her
week's earnings. He was a dissipated, brutal-
looking man. The child was deformed, had a
hunch on her poor back, and she looked weary
of life. She said her mother earned a little
money towards supporting the family by taking
in washing, but her father was cruel, and there
was no law to prevent his taking her hard earn-
ings from the factory and using them for his
own gratification. Is it any wonder that the in-
telligent women of the world want the ballot,
in order to get the laws remodeled, and better
the condition of the industrious working-classes,
that they may not be the prey of the indolent,
the dissipated or cruel?
	This is only one instance of the thousands
that occur every day, and yet women whose
"lives are cast in pleasant places," sit at their
ease, in blissful ignorance of the laws and gov-
erments, because, forsooth, a strong arm shelters
them from care and hardship, and so they ex-
claim, "We have all the rights we want."
	The right of dower is no more nor less than a
sort of vassalage, and a relic of the old common
law of England, and through this came the ap-
pelation relict, as applied to the wife after her
husband's decease; a word which, from its as-
sociation in that sense, is specially distasteful to
independent women. In the statutes of Utah
woman is a person; she can hold and convey
property, and she has the same right to do so
that her husband has. We give below the sec-
tions as laid down in the Revised Statutes of
Utah, and let every woman consider and judge

[Column 2]
for herself whether this is not preferable to the
right of dower, which strictly speaking means
one-third of her husband's estate, for she has
none of her own in law, and that very estate
may have come as a legacy to her from her
father or other relative, or it may be much of it
her own accumulated hard earnings. Here is
the enactment:
	(1020.) SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah: That all property owned by either spouse
before marriage, and that acquired after by gift,
bequest, devise or descent, with the rents, issues
and profits thereof, is the separate property of
that spouse by whom the same is so owned or
acquired, and separate property owned or ac-
quired as specified above, may be held, managed,
controlled, transferred and in any manner dis-
posed of by the spouse so owning or acquiring it
without any limitation or restriction by reason
of marriage.
	(1021.) SEC. 2. Either spouse may sue or be
sued, plead and be impleaded, or defend and be
defended at law.
	(1022.) SEC. 3. No right of dower shall exist
or be allowed in this Territory.—Compiled Laws,
page 342.
	In the laws governing the estates of decedents,
it is provided that:
	"Any married woman may dispose of all her
estate by will, and may alter or revoke the will
in like manner as a person under no disability
might do." (Ibid p. 271.)
	We have not time to enumerate all the points
involved, but, added to the law as it stands re-
corded, the women of Utah have the elective
franchise, and the privilege of voting at all elec-
tions in the Territory. If either of the late
Governors of the Territory had been as "liberal"
as the party title they have taken suggests,
women would have been ere this eligible to
offices of emolument and trust, and some might
for aught we know heve already been elected.
But even under the present conditions, the
women of Utah have more liberties and privi-
leges than those of other States and Territories.
In the "despised Mormon Church" women vote
on all questions the same as men do. This
scarcely accords with the current idea outside,
that Mormon women are oppressed and kept in
bondage.


[Column 1]
