Heartsease By Mrs. Parley Nelson It was a Sabbath day in early Maytime, when spring was at its best. The fragrance of apple blooms and wild hawthorn filled the air, while the voices of many feathered songsters rang out in mingled melody. Butterflies flew lazily from tree to tree, taking here a sip and there another, of the honeyed nectar from the fragrant blossoms. Busy bees hummed noisily as they hurried to and fro. Field and orchard lay flooded in radiant sunshine, and it seemed that all nature was joining in a hymn of praise and gladness. Yet there were no indications of joy or pleasure in the face of the woman who trudged wearily homeward along the dusty lane. Her usual sprightly step was slow and heavy, while her eyes gazed steadily downward, unmindful of the beauties which abounded on every side. Though bordering on middle age, Martha Shipley still retained many of the charms of her youth. A sprinkling of gray appeared among the locks of brown, but they were still thick and glossy; and though her once slender figure was beginning to incline. Toward plumpness, it was well formed, and full of symmetry and grace. Her voice was soft and musical, and her large, expressive eyes reflected the inward beauty of a kind and loving nature. Wiping the dust from her perspiring face, she raised her head with a sigh of weariness. "Dear me! It is so much warmer than I expected," she said to herself, half aloud. "I do wish I had let David come for me with the car as he offered to do; but it is such a glorious morning, and I felt sure I would enjoy the walk. Strange how a few ill-timed words can arouse a whole army of unpleasant thoughts and bitter longings, had cast a dark shadow over an otherwise perfect day." As she drew near the Shipley homestead with its comfortable farm-house, its well-kept lawns, and flowering trees, her countenance brightened visibly. Entering the gate, she sought the seclusion of a rustic bench beneath a spreading lilac bush, and while she rested, she let her gaze wander over the broad acres of fertile farm land, and back again to the cozy homestead which had sheltered herself and her husband ever since their wedding day. "No woman ever had a dearer home or a kinder husband than I have," she mused with a tender light in her eyes. "I suppose that I have more than a fair share of blessings; and yet, the boon my heart craves most I have been denied. No doubt the Lora knows what is best for me, and usually I try to feel resigned 
 to my lot, but there are times when my whole soul seems smothered in envy and resentment. However, I must try to hide my heartache, for I don't want David to know I am grieving again.' And having thus made confession to her own soul, she arose and went quietly into the house. She found her husband reclining comfortably in an easy chair, surrounded by sections of the Sunday paper. He looked up with a smile and spoke a cheery word of greeting as she entered. Then he saw something in his wife's dark eyes which brought him at once to her side. "Why, Martha, dear, what is the matter?" he questioned, putting his arms about her and leading her to his own easy chair. "I am afraid you are ill. I should have known better than to let you walk such a distance in the dust and heat. Rest here a moment while I bring you something cool to drink. Then you had better lie down." When David returned. He found his wife sobbing bitterly. His tender, kindly words had opened the flood-gates of her soul, and the tears would not be stayed. Taking her in his arms, he. Tried to soothe and comfort her. ''What is it, dearest?' he enquired anxiously. '"You must tell me what has happened to upset you so." Controlling herself with a strong effort, she smiled at David through her tears. 'Don't be alarmed, David," she said gently. ?I assure you nothing serious has happened?in fact, nothing at all except my own stper-sensitive nature getting wounded again. I am ashamed of myself for making "much ado about nothing" Let us forget it, and I will get your dinner for you now. I expect my boy is nearly starved." But David insisted that she make a clean breast of her troubles. "Well, to-day as you know is mother's day?a day which somehow holds a peculiar fascination for me. As I knew that special excercises were to be held in the ward chapel, I resolved to go. The program was beautiful and inspiring. The tributes paid to Motherhood were glorious and sincere. I lived again in memory, the few brief years of companionship with my own dear mother; and my heart 'rejoiced that I had never willfully caused her disappointment or sorrow. At the close of the services, a number of little, white-clad fairies marched down the aisle of the chapel and presented a carnation to each woman in the group where I was sitting. A dainty little lady thrust a flower into my hand, for which I thanked her with a word and a smile. "Observing this, Alice Denby, who was sitting just behind me, leaned over and remarked in a distinctly audible whisper. 'That carnation wasn't meant for you, Martha. Only Mothers are given flowers today.' That was all, David, but these words and HEARTSEASE 97 the way she said them went to my heart like a keen-edged sword. You see, I had unintentionally seated myself among the mothers, who were the honored guests of the occasion." "Yes, I see," said David grimly, "Alice Denby saw a chance to give you a thrust in a tender spot, and couldn't resist the temptation to do so. And how did you answer her, Martha?" "I did a very foolish thing, I suppose, David. I arose quietly, thrust the carnation in Alice's hand and said, 'I don't want anything that isn't mine by right, Alice.' Then I hurriedly left the church. "No one knows but you, David, with what intensity my heart has yearned for children. To me, the dearest thing in all the world is a little child. IF have never envied other women their beauty, their talents, their worldly possessions?no, nor their life's companions either, David?" and she gave him a tender smile?"'but whenever I see a mother with a babe at her breast, my heart cries out for such a treasure, and I always wonder if that woman appreciates fully the blessedness of her lot. Take Alice Denby for instance. I happen to know that her children have not all been wanted, I happen to know that she is falling far short of what a real mother ought to be to growing boys and girls. And yet, the world bows down in homage to her and many like her. Well, let it. I do not object, but why sneer at women like me, whose hearts are aching with mother love and longing that can never be appeased. David, why is it that Life has with held from us its sweetest experience? Though I do manage as a rule to keep my discontent beneath the surface, there are times when I really cannot 'Grin and bear it.' Things like this today hurt me, David, and I cannot forget them." "I wouldn't let anything Alice Denby said hurt me, Martha. Why you are worth a whole pasture full of women like her. She has a house, but not a home. Her children spend most of their time on the streets, and her husband dreads to enter the door. I know it is a hard trial for you, honey, but we must try to remember that 'Every life must have its burden, Every heart, its load.? I don't suppose there is an individual in the whole world without some unfulfilled desire. You believe that, don't you dear?" "Yes, David, I suppose you are right as you always are. You are such a comfort, dearest, and at least in the matter of a husband, my heart is completely satisfied. That evening as David and. Martha sat in the shadow of their vine-covered porch enjoying the golden sunset, they were surprised to see two children approaching. One was a lanky lad of perhaps eleven summers, his companion a little girl of about nine years in whose chubby hand was clasped a bunch of purple 
 pansy blossoms. Midway between the gate and the house, they paused in seeming consultation. "Are you sure this is the right place Jennie?" inquired the lad anxiously. "I'm afraid to go in here." "O yes, this is the right place, for I watched her all the way, and I'm sure there is nothing to be afraid of. She has the kindest and most beautiful eyes, O brother, she looks so much like our own dear mother, that I just wanted to cry when I looked at her. You should have seen her face this morning when that other woman took her flower away. She did feel so bad. I'm going to give her these flowers even if I have to go in alone." "Well, come on then, but you needn't be surprised if you get turned down flat, for most women don't like strange kids as I happen to know." The Shipleys had been unobserved listeners to the foregoing dialogue. They exchanged wondering glances, and as the visitors drew nearer, Martha rose and went to meet them. Extending a hand to each she said cordially, "How do you do, my dears. Although I don't know your names, I am very glad to have you call. Come in and rest on the porch. Mr. Shipley and I have just been admiring the beautiful sunset." In a few moment's Martha's womanly tact and motherly sympathy had completely banished the children's shy embarrassment and they were soon quietly explaining their errand. Martha learned that their names were Jack and Jennie Moreland, that their parents were both dead, and that they lived with their aged grandparents in a cottage on an adjoining farm, also that there was a baby sister whose name was Hope. Jennie explained that it was she who had presented the carnations during the Mother's Day program, and had observed and resented the other woman's interference. Instinctively she had determined to follow at a distance and learn where the pretty lady lived to give her a flower of her own. Unable to procure a carnation, she had gathered a bunch of purple pansies which she timidly presented and asked the kind lady to please take them with her love. Never in her whole life had Martha Shipley been so deeply touched. Putting an arm around each child, she drew them to her and kissed them with a great overwhelming tenderness. "You blessed darlings!" she cried, "Why I never was so happy in all my life, and these lovely flowers! I shall keep them always as mementoes of your loving thoughtfulness. Heartsease is the oldfashioned name for them, and heaven only knows how much they deserve that name today. David, aren't they just wonderful? The flowers and the children too, I mean," and Martha raised her HEARTSEASE 99 eyes to her husband's face just in time to see him wipe away a tear. That night when they were about to retire, Martha said to her husband, "Do you know what I would like to do, David?" "Perhaps I can guess, my dear; but were you thinking of adopting the grandparents too?" "O David, you darling! Would you let me do that too? I should love it, of all things, if they are willing." "Well, inasmuch as their little home is mortgaged and about to be foreclosed, I shouldn't wonder if they would consent to be adopted by you. The old gentleman is an expert gardener. I will take him into partnership, and the grandmother will be a splendid companion and great help to you. I am sure we can make them comfortable and happy, but what in the world will you do with three children?" "Just you wait and see, my dear. And I have just been thinking, David, that perhaps God left us childless that our hearts might reach out to these forsaken little ones in their time of need. I feel sure that at last I am going to learn the meaning of true happiness." Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University was well attended by Relief Society workers from many stakes. The addresses by Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Miss Genevieve Thornton were very much appreciated by all who came to listen. The auditors appreciated the fact that the suggestions made were of a practical nature, designed to help them solve the social problems that they are meeting day by day in their Relief Society work.