PROGRAMS "First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketches of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "Relief Society Annual Day," February Magazine, 1923, page 62; "The Relief Society the First Woman's Organization," March Magazine, 1924, page 115; "National Woman's Relief Society?History and Accomplishments," March Magazine, 1925, page 115; "Historical Events in the Relief Society," August Magazine, 1927, page 389. Program Prepared by Nellie Talmage Theme for the evening: Three phases of loyalty as shown by the Relief Society. 1. Loyalty to Home 10 minutes Dramatization: Cornelia's Jewels (Relief Society Magazine, Nov., 1926.) Solo: (While last tableau is held, "Dear Little Mother of Mine.") 2. Loyalty to Church 15 minutes Talk: (What the Relief Society has done to show loyalty to Church and what it may yet do.) 3. Loyalty to Nation 40 minutes Sketch: The Gathering of the Stars. (Columbia sees as in a vision the building of this great nation.) CHARACTERS: Columbia?Dignified young woman dressed in white robe; band around head, gilt star in front. Sits on raised platform with large banner in stand beside her. She rises when she speaks. Thirteen Original Colonies?Twelve singers and a leader, making a chorus. No costuming. The East?Represented by a reader, no costuming. Colonial Days?Two dancers dressed in colonial costume, dance the Minuet. (Music, Mozart's Minuet in G.) The South?Represented by the chorus. The Middle West?Represented by two soloists, a man and a lady, or one soloist and a reader. The West?Represented by a reader, and a soloist. The audience also takes part on the program in giving the salute to the flag and singing the Star Spangled Banner. An accompanist who has the program, music and cues, in her hands before the beginning of the program. Stage?No scenery necessary. Stage reveals Columbia and Flag. Columbia?"Our Flag, Symbol of freedom and right! Broad stripes and stars in field of blue, Courage, purity and truth, Say your colors bright, We pledge allegiance to you!" Congregation?(Arise and repeat together): I pledge allegiance to my flag, And to the republic for which it stands, One nation indivisible, With liberty and justice to all! Columbia? At first there were but thirteen states, And all were very small, But loyal, firm, united, they Never let the Old Flag fall! Chorus?(Sing) "Never Let the Old Flag Fall," by M. F. Kelly, published by Chappell & Co., Ltd., New York. Columbia? Charming were their manners, Dainty was their grace, Kerchief, shawl and polonaise, All trimmed up with lace. Quiet, calm and dignified, In social groups they met; They courtsied, bowed and pointed In the dainty minuet. Colonial Days?(Dancers dance the Minuet. Directions and music found in Clark's "Physical Training Book.?) Columbia? From their early struggle and striving, Their efforts never ceased; Hear now the busy factories And the culture of the East! The East?Reader. (Any good story or poem that will give the spirit of the eastern part of the United States.) Columbia? As years came on there gathered More stars upon the blue; They pushed out to the westward And farther southward, too. Time came when a mighty struggle Between the South and North Brought tears, heartache and sorrow, As men to war went forth. The South was saved for the union; Now sweet voiced singers croon Lovely Southern melodies Under the silvery moon. The South?(Chorus sings "Southern Melodies" of Stephen C. Foster. Arranged by Frank E. Barry.) PROGRAM 
 Columbia? "More Room! More Room!" the cry came, And on toward the setting sun, And across the mighty rivers, The pilgrimage was begun. They sang and wept and labored, And helped in the way that was best, And hand was clasped in friendship, ~ Out in the Middle West. The Middle West?Solo: ("Out Where the West Begins," by Pellmeo.) Columbia? Our native and adopted state, Illinois, We'll rise while is sung Our own dear song, Illinois. (This program was given originally in Chicago, Logan Square Branch.) Solo? Illinois State Song." (Congregation arose while the ? first verse was sung. In any other state a reader should read in this place, Carl Sandburg's "Chicago.'') Columbia? "Westward, ho!" The great ox trains Plodding the whole day through, Over the lonesome prairies, Till the mountains came in view. Trudging onward and upward, On to the mountain heights, Through the heat of the day-time, Resting in the cool of the night. Some seeking farms and fortune, Some to the goldfields went, Some to the valleys of the mountains, Where their lives in worship were spent. Breathe deep and drink in the beauty Of the mountain's snowcapped crest, Of the clear-aired peaceful valleys, Of the sparkling streams of the West! The West?Reader: ("Out West Where Dreams Come True." ) Columbia? And one band journeying westward, Sang as the plains they trod. "For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, Our God, our father's God." PROGRAM 67 They were led by inspiration, The faithful Pioneer band, Through the wilds of the Rocky Mountains, To Utah, the promised land! Let us rise in salute to Utah, As her song is sung tonight, Her star shines in the banner, Shines with honor, splendor bright! Solo?("Utah, We Love Thee," by Evan Stephens. Congregation stands during the singing of the first verse.) Columbia? "T love every inch of her prairie land, Every stone on her mountain side, I love every drop of water clear That flows in her rivers wide. I love every tree, every blade of grass Within Columbia's gates, The queen of the earth Is the land of my birth, My own United States!" Congregation?("The Star Spangled Banner.) I Must Hold On Suggested by the modern tendency to dig up "brutal" truths about great heroes like George Washington and others. By Eugene L. Roberts I must hold on, for if I lose my grip, A hundred souls may follow after. No life is one, but all are inter-knit, And my misdeed may spread disaster. God give me power to see with steadfast eye This oft forgotten truth in life; And let each hour of tempting impulse die To leave me stronger for the strife. But if I fail in weakness or despair,. God keep the truth from those I guide, That they may all in blessed ignorance bear Illusions of my strength that died. Since every act is built upon a dream, And dreams are goals inspiring youth, Let none detract from virtues as they seem In needless search for brutal truth.