[Vol33 | November 1946 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Keys Flynn]
KEYS 
Clarence  Edy/in  Flynn 
It  is  a  shame  upon  us 
That  there  should  be  a  day 
When  we  must  seek  protection 
By  locking  things  away. 
If  but  the  race  were  honest. 
One  could  leave  any  store 
By  day  or  night,  with  never 
A  lock  upon  the  door. 
He  could  lie  down  to  slumber 
Unhindered  till  the  dawn, 
Knowing  no  hand  would  harm  him. 
Or  anything  be  gone. 
Perhaps  we  shall  be  neighbors 
Again  in  years  to  be, 
So  honest  that  no  coffer 
Or  house  will  need  a  key.

A  Visit  to  Church  Shrines 
Edith  S.  Elliott 
Member,  Relief  Society  General  Board 
WHEN  planning  spring  Relief  the  highway  rivaled  the  patterns  of 
Society  conventions  for  the  any  lace  maker.    The  quaint,  elon- 
eastern  stakes,  and  some  of  gated   farmhouses   were  intriguing, 
the  missions  at  the  request  of  Pres-  Added  to  the  houses  themselves,  or 
ident  George  Albert  Smith,  Sister  shall  I  say  ''hitched  together,"  were 
Spafford  and  I  were  aware  that  our  the  sheds,  barns,  and  other  buildings 
journeyings  would  pass  near  some  of  necessary  to  farm  life,  so  connected 
the  Church  shrines.    With  this  in  that  in  the  long  winters,  when  the 
mind,  we  allowed  time  for  a  visit  to  snow  is  deep,  the  farmer  can  attend 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  birth-  to  his  chores  without  having  to  go 
place  at  Sharon,  Vermont;   to  Pal-  outside  into  the  cold, 
myra,  New  York,  where  he  spent  I   must   mention    the  woodpiles 
his  youth  and  received  his  first  vis-  seen  beside  each  house,  as  wood  is 
ion;  and  to  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  where  used  for  both  heating  and  cooking, 
he  spent  his  last  days.                        '  The  neat  piles  were  huge!  If  wishes 
Our  first  trip  to  a  Church  shrine  were  horses,  I  would  now  have  one 
began  at  Cambridge,  Massachusetts,  of  those  woodpiles  stacked  in  my 
early   one  May  morning  in  Presi-  own  yard  to  feed  my  fireplace  this 
dent  Reeder's  comfortable  car.  The  winter. 
"we"  consisted  of  President  William  Through  this  lovely,  picturesque 
S.  Reeder  of  the  New  England  Mis-  setting,  we  followed  the  road  into 
sion,  his  capable  and  charming  wife,  Vermont.    We  passed  through  the 
Bertha     Stone     Reeder,    President  little  town  of  South  Royalton,  then 
Belle  S.  Spafford  of  the  Relief  So-  on  to  the  spot  revered  by  all  Latter- 
ciety,    my   brother    George   Albert  day   Saints— the  birthplace  of  our 
Smith,  Jr.,  professor  at  the  Harvard  Prophet.    I  cannot  think  of  a  more 
Graduate   School   of  Business  Ad-  peaceful   or   beautiful   place   for  a 
ministration,  and  myself— all  friends  prophet  to  be  born.    From  the  top 
of  long  standing.  of  the  everlasting  hills,  covered  with 
We  looked  forward  to  the  good  pines  and  maples,  to  the  lush  grasses 
visit  that  the  auto  trip  promised,  as  in  the  valleys,  calmness  and  serenity 
our  route  led  from  Massachusetts  in-  abounded.    It     was    no     effort    to 
to  New  Hampshire.  imagine  what  the  birthplace  might 
New  England  in  the  spring  is  like  have    been    like— a    humble    farm- 
the  beauty  of  a  poem.    No  wonder  house,  containing  love,  honor,  intel- 
so  much  art,  literature,  and  culture  ligence,  and  industry, 
have  come  from  this  area!  The  rivers  I  like  to  think  that  our  Heavenly 
and  lakes,  and  even  the  small  ponds,  Father  chose  this  secluded  spot,  far 
had   an   air  of  renewed  life.  The  from  the  hustle  and  bustle  of  city 
greenery  of  budding  spring  carpeted  life,  as  a  place  where  a  little  boy 
the  hills.   The  trees  and  shrubs  along  could  live  close  to  nature  and  be 
Page  736
