[Vol33 | November 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Where Frontispiece]
THE  INTRUDER  679 
pictures  she  had  left  here  and  there  bent,  picking  up  the  travel  folders, 
for  the  family  to  stumble  over,  the  Carol  watched  him,  while  pain  bit 
neighbor's  baby  she  had ''borrowed/'  in  her.    He  looked  so  young,  like  a 
the  quilt  she  and  Joyce  were  mak-  small  boy  obediently  putting  away 
ing  together,  the  cradle  Danny  had  his  toys.    She  touched  him  lightly, 
designed.       She     straightened     her  'The  three  of  you  can  go.    There's 
shoulders.    She  had  built  as  well  as  not  a  reason  in  the  world  for  you  to 
she,  knew.     She   stated    clearly,  "I  stay.     The  doctor  says    I'm    doing 
can't  go  on  the  trip.     I'm  going  to  famously." 
have  a  baby."  It  was  then  Carol  knew  why  he 
There  was  a  stunned  silence.  liad  delayed  speaking  so  long.  His 
"A  baby?"    Danny's  voice  skidded  voice  was   rough  with  tears.     "Do 
into  high  C.    "A  baby?    You  mean  you  think  I'd  take  a  chance  of  any- 
a  real  one?"  thing  happening  to  you  ...  or  my 
"A  baby?"  whispered  Joyce.     "A  child?"     He  took  her  in  his  arms 
baby  in  our  house.    I'm  making  the  ^^"d  hid  his  face  against  her  hair  for 
quilt  for  our  own  baby.  Oh,  Moth-  ^  l^ng  moment.  Tt's  the  strangest 
ei-r'  thing,"  he  said  at  last,  "but    ever 
Carol  looked  at  her  daughter  and  ^'"^^  ^   stumbled  on  a  couple  of 
saw  how  very  young   she   was,    so  ™ag3f>"es  with    baby   pictures   al 
,  ^   .1  ^.  „  ^  ^\,i.-n  r  ^j  •    u  over  them  1  ve  been  thmkme  about 
young  that  awe  still  lived  in  her.  ,    ,  .  ,  i       i    ,     i 
'    ^T°      -      ,  ...  -  babies  ...  I    never    dared    to  be- 
Her     daughter     smiled     at     her  \{QyQ 
crookedly,  "You  should  have  told  c^;^!'  controlled  the  chuckle  he- 
me ...  I  would  have  helped  more.  f^^^  ^^  reached  her  lips.     Miracles 
"Gosh,"  said  Danny.  He  looked  happen   so    casually,    the    constant 
wildly  around  him.    "Gosh,  lemme  miracles  that  only  women  know.  She 
set  the  table."  lifted  her  face.    "Thanks,"  she  said 
Dan  said  very    softly,    "That's  a  with  her  heart,   "thanks  for  ever}- 
good  idea.  Son."    He  kept  his  head  thing." 
RAFFLING  AND  GAMBLING 
Is  it  proper  to  raffle  property  .  .  .?  No;  raffling  is  a  game  of  chance,  and  hence 
leads  to  gambling;  for  that  reason,  if  for  no  other,  it  should  not  be  encouraged  .  .  . 
President  Young  declared  raffling  to  be  a  modified  name  of  gambling;  said  that  "as 
Latter-day  Saints  we  cannot  afford  to  sacrifice  moral  principles  to  financial  gain,"  and 
advised  the  sisters  through  the  Woman's  Exponent  not  to  raffle.  President  Lorenzo 
Snow  endorsed  and  approved  of  these  sentiments;  and  I  have  often  expressed  my  un- 
qualified disapproval  of  raffling;  .  .  .  With  all  these  objections,  should  it  not  be  clear  to 
anyone  that  raffling  horses,  quilts,  bicycles  and  other  property  is  not  sanctioned  by  the 
moral  law  nor  approved  by  the  general  Church  authorities?  ...  if  you  do  not  believe 
in  it,  you  should  refuse  to  patronize  it,  so  helping  the  cause. 
— President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  407-408

Faith  Is  a  Heritage 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
CHAPTER  7 
Synopsis:  Enid  Drage,  young,  attractive 
wife  of  Tom  Drage,  finds  herself  a  widow 
following  his  death  in  a  factory  accident. 
She  finishes  normal  school  and  teaches  in 
the  small  town,  renting  from  Miss  Nobbit. 
Rearing  her  daughter,  Sharon,  presents 
problems.  She  has  been  to  a  party  with 
the  wealthy  young  people  of  the  town, 
and  complains  that  she  will  never  be  able 
to  entertain  them  in  their  own  two-room 
apartment. 
ENID  had  dehberately  delayed 
coming  home  from  school  on 
several  days  when  Mr.  Fletch- 
er, the  portly  and  distinguished- 
looking  banker,  had  suggested  that 
he  might  meet  her  on  Main  Street 
after  school.  That  was  his  alterna- 
tive when  she  had  refused  to  go 
with  him  riding  or  to  the  movies. 
At  times,  when  she  had  started  home 
and  had  seen  him  in  the  distance 
standing  in  the  bank  doorway,  she 
had  changed  her  course,  pretending 
to  herself  or  whoever  might  be  with 
her  that  she  needed  to  go  to  the  li- 
brary. 
The  day  after  Sharon's  first  party, 
Enid  closed  her  desk  up  early,  pow- 
dered her  nose  carefully,  put  lipstick 
on  sparingly  to  bring  out  her  own 
good  color,  and  loosened  her  hair 
somewhat  about  her  face.  Then 
she  started  down  Main  Street.  She 
wanted  to  see  Mr.  Fletcher  today. 
She  wanted  him  to  see  her,  to  ask 
her  to  go  out  v^th  him.  Her  answer 
would  not  be  "No"  today. 
And  she  was  not  disappointed.  He 
was  standing  in  the  doorway  of  the 
bank.  She  walked  slowly,  pretend- 
ing not  to  notice  him,  yet  giving  him 
time  to  speak. 
Page  680 
He  said,  "We— 11,  I  haven't  seen 
you  in  a  long  time.  School  teaching 
must  be  keeping  you  pretty  busy." 
She  lifted  her  eyes  to  his  in  simu- 
lated surprise  and  pleasure,  "Oh, 
how  do  you  do?"  she  greeted  him, 
smiling,  stopping  until  he  came  over 
to  her.    "It's  so  nice  seeing  you." 
He  literally  beamed  beneath  her 
pleasantry.  He  fingered  his  soHd 
gold  watch  fob,  as  he  suggested, 
"Wouldn't  you  like  to  have  an  ice- 
cream soda?" 
"I  believe  I  would,"  she  agreed, 
still  smiling. 
"Wait  just  one  moment  until  I 
get  my  hat,  we'll  walk  over  to  the 
drugstore." 
She  waited,  remembering  the  gay, 
casual  way  in  which  Tom  used  to 
go  without  a  hat,  even  in  the  coldest 
weather,  the  way  his  dark  hair  used 
to  lift  in  the  wind.  But  she  must 
not  remember  Tom  now.  That  was 
in  the  past.  She  would  put  it  be- 
hind her  once  and  for  all.  Yes,  she 
would  forget  ...  she  would  go  for- 
ward, make  a  good  life  for  Sharon, 
the  kind  of  life  the  girl  wanted,  with 
a  house  where  she  could  entertain 
.  .  .  maybe  her  own  car  later  on.  All 
the  things  the  other  girls  had. 
There  was  not  another  house  in 
town  to  compare  with  the  Fletcher 
three-story  brick  one  in  the  south 
part  of  town,  with  its  beautifully 
landscaped  grounds  and  weeping 
willow  trees  that  almost  conc^ed 
the  white-pillared  porch. 
She  was  more  animated  than  ever 
when  Mr.  Fletcher  joined  her;  and

FAITH  rs  A  HERITAGE  681 
they  walked  laughingly  to  the  comer  did  not  feel  any  disapproval  as  his 
drugstore.  arm  tightened  just  a  litde  about  her 
When  they  parted,  he  asked  her  waist, 
to  the  military  ball  the  next  night,  True,  he  was  twenty  years  oldei 
and  she  accepted  witli  outward  pleasr  than  she,  he  was  bald  and  heavy.  But 
ure  and  enthusiasm.  on  the  other  side  of  the  ledger  there 
"You're  a  lovely    thing,''    he  as-  were  many  things:  his  standing  in 
sured  her,  holding  his  hat  properly  the    community,    his    graciousness, 
in  his  hand,  bending  slightly  from  and,  of  course,  his    imposing   and 
the  waist.  beautiful  home.     She  didn't  quite 
"Tliank    you,"    she    murmured,  know  what  she  would  do  with  such 
playing    the   game,   going   through  a  house  if  it  ever  should  happen  that 
the  motions,  forcing  her  lips  into  the  he  asked  her  to  marry  him.     But 
smile  of  gentleness   and    sweetness  there  was  time  enough  to  think  of 
that  he  seemed  to  admire  so  much,  that  later.    He  might  never  ask  her. 
By  the  time  he  called  for  her  the  Yet,  her  woman's  intuition— and  his 
next  night,  she  was  actually  in  a  eyes— told  her  differently, 
state  of  excitement,  due  partly    to  It  seemed  to  Enid  that  even  the 
Sharon's  happiness  and  Miss  Nob-  children  at  school  treated  her  with 
bit's    sage    approval.     Her    parting  a  new  respect  and  courtesy,  for  news