[Vol33 | November 1946 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Committee]
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  5— Pinning,  Basting,  Pressing,  Edges  and 
Seam  Finishings 
Work  Meeting  Committee,  Velma.  N.  Simonsen,  Chairman 
For  Tuesday,  February  ii,  1947 
Objective:    To  assemble  the  garment,  pin,  fit,  and  baste. 
Reference:  The  Complete  Book  of  Sewing,  Chapters  12  and  13, 
piNNING  and  basting  are  valu- 
able aids  in  sewing.  When  a 
seam  is  pinned  for  stitching,  the  pins 
should  be  placed  close  together  and 
set  in  from  the  edge,  so  they  can  be 
removed  as  you  stitch.  Put  the  pins 
in  at  right  angles  to  the  seam,  push- 
ing them  in  lightly  from  the  edges. 
This  will  make  a  straight  line  guide 
for  your  basting,  and  will  also  keep 
the  pins  from  pricking  your  fingers. 
When  you  start  to  baste  your 
garment,  first  look  to  see  how  your 
pattern  controls  the  curved  lines. 
This  means  that  you  first  prepare 
and  then  carefully  pin  in  the  darts, 
tucks,  or  gathers,  then  baste  them, 
and  try  on  the  garment  before  stitch- 
ing. Bastings  are  simply  temporary 
joinings.  They  hold  the  pieces  of 
fabric  together  for  a  fitting  and  they 
hold  the  seams  together  while  you 
stitch. 
Fitting 
Too  much  fitting  may  not  only 
distort  the  design,  but  may  also  take 
away  the  smartness,  resulting  in  an 
uncomfortable,  pinched  -  looking 
garment.  Very  little  fitting  should 
be  necessary  if  the  following  points 
are  emphasized: 
:  1.  Take  your  measurements  correctly. 
2.  Purchase  the  pattern  in  the  correct 
size  and,  if  alteration  is  necessary,  do 
it  carefully. 
Prepare  the  fabric  and  lay  out  the 
pattern  pieces  according  to  the  in- 
structions. 
Cut  and  mark  the  garment  carefully. 
Pin,  baste,  and  assemble  the  pieces 
with  precision. 
Pressing 
Good  pressing  equipment  and 
careful  handling  of  your  garment  are 
important.  Press  as  you  sew,  is  the 
first  rule  to  follow.  Press  each  seam 
and  detail  of  a  garment  as  it  is  fin- 
ished, and  before  joining  it  to  an- 
other part.  This  will  help  to  make 
the  final  pressing  much  easier,  and 
the  finished  model  will  be  more  pro- 
fessional looking. 
Pressing  seams,  using  a  sleeve- 
board  and  a  tailors'  cushion  pressing 
woolens,  steaming  or  pressing  vel- 
vet, or  other  pile  fabrics,  are  all  arts 
of  importance  in  sewing.  Pressing  is 
not  difficult.  The  difficulty  lies  in 
the  fact  that  the  average  person  does 
not  realize  the  importance  of  press- 
ing. 
Finishing  Edges  and  Seams 
Edges  and  seams  finished  properly 
are  a  great  asset  to  any  garment. 
Edges  may  be  overcast,  pinked, 
bound,  turned  under  and  sewed 
with  a  running  stitch,  by  machine  or

778  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1946. 
by  hand,  close  to  the  turned  edge,  the  requirements  of  the  material  and 
etc.  Seam  finishings  may  be  French,  the  time  available  for  the  seamstress, 
felled  French,  hem  felled,  lapped, 
tucked,  catch  stitched,  fagoted,  hem-  Assignment  for  March:  Bring  the 
stitched,  or  finished  in  any  one  of  a  garment  you  are  making   and    the 
variety  of  other  ways,  according  to  trimmings  to  be  used.