[Vol33 | November 1946 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: The Cover The Joseph News]
Carthage  Jail,  where  Brother  Joseph 
A.  McRae  kindly  showed  us  tiie 
points  of  interest.  My  eyes  filled 
with  tears  at  the  memory  of  the 
tragedy  enacted  there. 
A  luncheon  at  the  attractive  home 
of  Albert  Salisbury  was  a  delightful 
experience,  both  in  respect  to  food 
and  companionship. 
In  two  automobiles,  onr  group 
then  followed  along  the  Mississippi 
River  road  to  Nauvoo,  where  the 
Prophet  and  many  of  our  forebears 
lived  in  comfortable,  well-built,  fine 
homes.  No  wonder  they  called  it 
''Nauvoo,  the  Beautiful!"  The  wide 
expanse  of  the  Mississippi  River  half 
circles  the  town  like  a  protecting 
arm.  One  has  to  imagine  Nauvoo 
as  it  was  at  the  peak  of  its  develop- 
ment, because,  now,  the  place  is  like 
a  ghost  town. 
However,  there  remain  a  few  sig- 
nificant landmarks  that  bespeak  the 
glory  of  the  past.  We  saw  the 
Prophet's  first  home,  the  Mansion 
House  (his  last  home),  and  the 
Nauvoo  House,  where  Emma  Smith 
lived  after  her  husband's  martyrdom. 
The  graves  of  the  Prophet,  his  wife, 
and  his  devoted  brother  Hyrum,  arc 
fittingly  located  on  the  bank  of  the 
''Father  of  Waters." 
Sister  Spafford's  emotions  were 
particularly  stirred  as  she  stood  on 
the  site  of  the  Prophet's  store,  for  it 
THE  MANSION  HOUSE,  LAST  HOME  OF  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH  SMITH 
NAUVOO,  ILLINOIS

A  VISIT  TO  CHURCH  SHRINES 
741 
NAUVOO  HOUSE  (AT  RIGHT) 
ON  THE  MISSISSIPPI  RIVER,  NAUVOO,  ILLINOIS 
After  the  death  of  the  Prophet,  Emma,  his  wife,  and  Lucy,  his  mother,  lived  for 
many  years  in  this  house. 
was  in  a  room  o\er  the  store  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  met  with  Elders 
John  Taylor,  Willard  Richards,  and 
eighteen  women,  on  March  17, 1842, 
and  organized  the  Relief  Societ}-. 
We  rode  through  the  streets  of 
Namoo  to  see  the  homes  of  some 
of  the  early  Church  leaders.  We 
found  three  homes  of  my  ancestors 
which  were  of  great  interest  to  me. 
They  were  the  former  residences  of 
Lorin  Farr,  John  Smith,  and  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff.  We  also  saw  the 
home  of  Brigham  Young  and  the 
homes  of  many  others. 
To  us,  there  was  a  feeling  of  sad- 
ness and  desolation  about  Nauvoo. 
No  doubt  this  was  due  to  the  mem- 
ory of  the  cruel  treatment  experi- 
enced by  the  saints  at  the  hands  of 
mobs. 
Motoring  back  down  the  river 
road,  we  crossed  the  Mississippi  on  a 
bridge  to  the  Iowa  side.  Here,  we 
looked  across  from  Montrose  to 
Nauvoo.  We  could  not  but  ponder 
on  what  might  have  been. 
This  dav  of  rich  memories  ended 
for  us  in  the  evening  when  my  dear 
kinsfolk  waved  goodbye  to  us  as  our 
train  pulled  out  of  the  station  at 
Keokuk,  Iowa.  Thus  ended  our 
visit  to  some  of  the  Church  shrines. 
Sister  Spafford  and  I  will  long  re- 
member, with  grateful  appreciation, 
this  rare  opportunity. 
NIGHT 
Bernice  Hacking  Balle 
Night  creeps  slowly  down  the  lane 
Trailing  garments — star-bedecked, 
Bringing  drowsy  sleep  and  shadows 
To  the  valleys — moon-flecked.

The  Luxury  of  Giving 
Norma  WrathalJ 
"Only  the  poor  can  know  the  luxury  of  giving" — George  Eliot 
THE  two  little  girls,  Ruth  and  Her  direct,  gray  eyes  were  troubled 
Hope,  dawdled  over  their  work  as  she  looked  at  her  sister-in-law. 
of  cleaning  the  lamp  chim-  Emmeline  James  was  plump, 
neys.  It  was  i860,  and  mama  often  short  waisted,  jolly  looking,  with 
said  what  a  blessing  it  was  to  have  rosy  features  and  reddish  blond  hair 
oil  lamps  instead  of  candles.  Of  which  she  wore  in  a  large  knot  on 
course,  there  were  times  when  the  top  of  her  head.  Em  was  very  posi- 
work  of  cleaning  the  chimneys  tive  in  her  ideas.  She  shook  her 
proved  irksome,  but  not  today.  For  head  sympathetically, 
when  mama  and  Aunt  Em  spent  an  "Sts,  sts,  it's  too  bad,  Zina,"  she 
afternoon  sewing,  something  im-  said.  "Goodness  knows  you've  done 
portant  was  often  discussed.  The  all  a  mortal  could  do  to  make  her 
little  girls  tried  to  be  as  quiet  as  pos-  feel  welcome.  I  hate  to  say  it,  but 
sible,  so  that  they  would  not  be  sent  I've  thought  all  along,  she's  too  citi- 
out  of  the  room,  but  it  was  no  use.  fied  for  this  pioneer  life  .  .  ."  Her 
"Run  along  now,  dearies,"  said  voice  trailed  off  as  Zina  held  up  a 
Zina  Gleason,  glancing  up.  "Put  warning  hand, 
your  wraps  on,  see  if  there  are  any  The  stair  door  opened,  and  Julie 
more  eggs  before  they  freeze  in  the  Saunders  came  into  the  room.  She 
nests,  and  give  the  hens  some  wheat,  was  almost  willowy  in  her  slender- 
Then  you  can  play  in  the  sitting-  ness,  and  her  delicate  face  looked  un- 
room  with  your  dolls."  usually  pale  in  its  frame  of  fluffy, 
As  the  girls  trailed  reluctantly  out,  light  brown  hair.  "The  baby's 
Zina  bit  off  a  thread,  and  leaned  for-  asleep  at  last,"  she  said,  speaking  of 
ward.  "I  don't  like  the  looks  of  Zina's  youngest,  two-year-old  Jay, 
things  at  all,"  she  said,  "It  w^as  to  who  had  been  named  for  his  father, 
have  been  a  Christmas  wedding,  you  Jacob  Gleason.  "Just  as  he  would 
know,  in  Salt  Lake,  so  her  father  start  to  doze,  he'd  start  telling  me 
could  be  there.  But  all  of  a  sudden,  again  of  how  he  has  the  same  birth- 
Cy  announced  that  he  was  going  to  day  as  Jesus,  and  I'd  have  to  tell 
the  canyon  with  the  other  men  to  him  the  Christmas  story  again."  She 
get  wood,  and  Julie  told  me  this  laughed  softly,  but  her  eyes  were  un- 
morning  that  the  wedding  had  been  certain  as  she  glanced  over  at  Em, 
postponed— I  don't  think  we  need-  who,  vdth  lips  tightly  compressed, 
ed  any  more  wood,  anyway.  There's  bent  industriously  over  her  knitting, 
enough  to  last  until  early  spring."  Julie  seemed  to  sense  Em's  disap- 
Zina  sighed.    She  was  a  tall,  firmly  proval. 
built  woman,  her  pale  features  Zina  rose  and  began  poking  the 
framed  by  heavy  dark  braids  which  fire  in  the  great,  black  wood-bum- 
wound   smoothly   about  her  head,  ing  stove,  which  stood  at  one  side  of 
Page  742