[Vol33 | November 1946 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 5
Industry President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, February 4, 1947
Objective: To acquaint the women with the diligence and industry of the pioneers two of their enduring virtues. BRIGHAM YOUNG in the Journal of Discourses, Vol 11, page 247, says: My experience has taught me and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give out and out to man or woman money, food, clothing, or anything else if they are able-bodied, and can work and earn what they need when there is anything on earth for them to do. This is my principle and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. Surrounded by nothing but wild and barren nature, and thrown upon their own resources, the pioneer women had to be industrious and invent ways and means of carrying on their share of the work. They spun and wove, and made their clothing and hats. They made their own brooms, candles, soap, and other household articles. They not only prepared the food, but they helped to produce it. They even helped to build their homes, as well as to raise the crops, and at the same time they reared large families. The writers own mother, when preparing her wedding dress, cleaned and washed the wool, carded it into rolls, spun the rolls into yarn, dyed the yarn in two shades with dyes she herself had manufactured, and wove this yarn into plaid cloth. She then cut the cloth by patterns she herself had fashioned, and completed what was truly a_ beautiful dress. Like many other women, she not only wove cloth for dresses and for men's suits, but she made shawls, bedspreads, and blankets. Old, worn, wagon covers, which had been made of "factory" in Nauvoo, were salvaged and made into men's shirts and other articles of clothing. Hats were made of straw which was bleached with sulphur found in the mountains. 'The straw was made into braids which were sewn together, then fashioned into hats by shaping on blocks, and pressing. The hats were then adorned with homemade trimming. It was the industry of the pioneers, who adopted the beehive as a symbol of industry for the Territory, which provided the means of sustaining life itself as well as supplying, in later years, many of life's comforts. Industry, as an integral part of the character of Latter-day Saints, is essential for the fulfilment of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the saints would become a great and mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. .