EDITORIAL
. Motto  Charity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor...Susa Young Gates Business Manager...Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. V. NOVEMBER, 1918. No. 11.
SELFISHNESS
People who pity themselves are about the Self-Pity. most selfish, disagreeable, touchy, uncomfortable people in the world. Nothing is just right at home or abroad. Husbands are brutes  it is usually women who thus afflict homes and society  children are ungrateful, friends are neglectful and people generally are always "insulting" these self-centered, shallow creatures. A good man I knew once remarked jokingly that he did not carry his feelings around with him like a 'cat's tail,' waiting for one to tread on them. President Joseph F. Smith replied to a questioner, "I am never insulted, unless I am sure the other person deliberately intends to insult me."
Sometimes it happens that ill-health or deep Two Causes. sorrow casts a physical shadow over a woman who would otherwise be cheerful and comfortable. Even so, the whining self-pity will aggravate the disease or mental trouble, distract the family, drive the husband from home and gradually poison the springs of life in the sufferer herself and in all who come near her. Middle-aged women are often the victims of this pernicious habit. It is true, children are gone, making their own histories and are too busy to visit mother, take her for an auto ride or even to remember her birthday; husband is still making a living and is


busy in quorum and ward work. Mother may occupy no office in the Relief Society or other organization; she may be rather delicate in health, and so she cuddles herself with secret resentment because no one puts her in a public position, while her family forgets her; and thus she doubles her troubles and increases her ills. For such women temple work and genealogy is a heaven-sent boon. No one can or would hinder her from taking up an active work for her dead, and if she will do so she will soon forget her trouble, her aches and pains, and will achieve happiness, through both natural and divine means.
Forget yourself, nervous sufferers, for mer- Remedy. cy's sake, think of other people. No matter what your trouble may be, it will do you no good to talk about it, nor will it help your family or friends. If you have lost a baby, a son in the war, or you are a confirmed invalid, don't imagine it will help matters to talk about it. Have a quiet cry occasionally  that often helps. But remember your husband, your children, your friends, all have troubles of their own, and the recital of yours will not make theirs easier to bear. Don't be a spiritual piker! Be a brave soldier of the Cross. Get busy doing or saying something for others. Forget self. Shut the door on your complaints, open the windows of your soul to let in health and peace. Think and talk about building-up plans, constructive thoughts, hopeful thoughts, and soon you will have the joy of knowing you are helping friends and dear ones over difficulties, while your own sorrows and pains are lightened in the process. The Savior never performed a miracle to give Himself one single, selfish pleasure or release from pain. He performed all his miracles to convert, convince, relieve and heal others  not Himself. Can we not learn His lesson through His own example?
GOOD ADVICE TO WOMEN.
Do not be afraid to rest your feet. Sit down at your work whenever you can; a chair in the kitchen is a great foot conserver. One may walk all day long upon two feet without injury, but cannot stand perfectly still, as when paring the dinner vegetables, ironing the small pieces, etc., for a quarter of an hour without a crippling degree of fatigue and a risk of serious injury to the feet.  Chicago Daily News.
Life is made up of "chores."
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December.
BOOK OF MORMON LESSON.
THE RULE OF KINGS ABOLISHED.
"And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people. "But he said unto them, Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another; therefore I say unto you, that it is not expedient that ye should have a king" (Mosiah 23:6, 7).
Before the death of Mosiah he inquired of his people concerning his successor to the throne. The people replied that they wished Aaron his son to be their king, but Aaron had gone into the land of Nephi; therefore he could not be their king. Now Mosiah took advantage of this situation to instruct the people in relation to kings.
"Now I say unto you that because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you" (Mosiah 29:16).
A paragraph of comparatively recent date, published in the Cleveland Plaindealer, headed "Napoleon Bonaparte in the Role of Prophet," represents Napoleon as saying that in one hundred years from the time he spoke the world would be "all slave or all free." Thus it would appear that this man, great in affairs of state even in his time, could see forces at work that would eventually enslave or free all men. The remarkable thing about Napoleon's prediction is that he should have measured his time so well; for the centenary of Waterloo found the world in the throes of a great struggle between autocracy and democracy, or, as Napoleon chose to state it, between freedom and slavery. In the midst of the confusion in which we have wrought, during the past four years, two things seem to be clear: first, that the triumph of Germany and her allies would mean the triumph of autocracy, which, as the Germans have chosen to administer it, is slavery of the very basest sort; second, that the triumph of


the Allies spells the salvation of democracy and of democratic institutions, which has received wonderful interpretation from the statesmen representing the Allies' cause.
It is the rule of kings, on whose power there is little check, that has wrought the havoc of today. It would seem from the record that has been made during the last decade, in kings toppling from their thrones, that bitter experience is teaching the world how true are the words of the Nephite prophet in relation to the possible and very probable misrule of kings. In a very short time we have a record of the abdication and assassination of Czar Nicholas II., of the Russians; Constantine of Greece; Nicholas Petrovich, the old king of Montenegro; King Ferdinand of Roumania; Peter, King of Servia, and the King of Hejaz, formerly chief of Mecca. These monarchs have all lost their thrones during the present war. Prior to the war, and within ten years, Manual II. of Portugal; Otto of Bavaria, Abdul Hamid II., Sultan of Turkey, and the Emperor of China have passed out of history as monarchs. In the great lesson Mosiah was seeking to teach his people in relation to the iniquity that too often characterizes the rule of monarchs, he said:
"For behold how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed, yea, and what great destruction!" (Mosiah 29:16.)
What more fitting text could be selected for any sermon at the present time? Does not the whole earth groan in terrible realization of the great destruction one wicked king has caused?
Yea, verily in a time of peace this man Mosiah, inspired of Almighty God, was teaching his people truths which our present generation is learning in blood and tears. Is it not truly startling that the words of an ancient prophet should have such a modern ring? Our most advanced statesmen have at last found the trail trodden by our ancient prophets; they are doing now what he did before them, battling for the liberties of all people or peoples, whether high or low, great or small.
Thus it has ever been, people who have accepted God's ordained and chosen leaders have always been able to boast of a civilization and of a philosophy of life and living far in advance of their age. Our pride mounts to the highest point, our satisfaction is all complete, when we record of these worthy people that they learned the lesson Mosiah sought to teach them:
"Therefore they relinquished their desire for a king, and became exceedingly anxious that every man should have an equal
GUIDE LESSONS. 649
chance throughout all the land; yea and every man expressed a willingness to answer for his own sins.
"Therefore, it came to pass that they assembled themselves together in bodies throughout the land, to cast in their voices concerning who should be their judges, to judge them according to the law which had been given them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them.
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them.
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them, or to judge them according to the law; and this they did throughout all the land.
"And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be the first chief judge; he being also the high priest; his father having conferred the office upon him, and had given him the charge concerning all the affairs of the church.
"And now it came to pass that Alma did walk in the ways of the Lord, and he did keep his commandments; and there was continual peace throughout the land" (Mosiah 29:38, 39, 41, 42, 43).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Read with care the 23rd and 29th chapters of Mosiah.
2. Discuss reasons not dwelt upon in your lesson text, but found in Mosiah chapter 29, why kings are often a menace to a people.
3. What part have wicked kings played in the great struggle going on in Europe?
4. Name some kings who have toppled from their thrones in the past decade.
5. Name five or six countries whose cities and villages have been destroyed through the invasion of the Central Powers.
6. How did Mosiah characterize the rule of king Noah among the peoples of ancient America?
7. What form of government did Mosiah suggest to them?
8. What would be the advantage of the rule of judges over the rule of kings, in case both were wicked?
9. Name some other advantages not suggested by the government of wicked persons.
10. Which form of government do the governments of the United States of America and France most closely resemble, that of the rule of kings or of the judges?
11. Does Mosiah have anything to say about good kings? What?
12. In what class would you place King Albert of Belgium?


LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December.
LESSON III. Genealogy.
PARENT'S NAMES OR PATRONYMICS. (See Chapter 10, Surname Book)
Teachers' Outlines.
The earliest form of surname was the inherited father's name. (a) A temporary added name does not become a surname until used by the second or third generation. The Welsh patronymic form was ap. The Norman form was Fitz. The Gaelic or Scotch form was Mac. The Anglo-Saxon form was ing and son. Patronymics might come from personal or nicknames. (a) Sometimes changed and turned about. (b) The mother's name sometimes becomes fixed into a surname and these forms are called metronymics.
Note: Find out who has a patronymic or metronymic surname in the class or even in the ward.
Lesson Statement.
If it is necessary for people to have personal names, when families increase, you can easily see that it would be necessary to choose different names for people beside their personal names, unless there were some other way of indicating two different Adams or Johns or Marys. First, it might be Big John and Little John, or Old Mary and Young Mary. Then if three Johns belonged to three different families, you would begin to speak of Adam's son John, Henry's son John, or Joseph's son John. It was in this perfectly natural way that children began to be known by their father's name in addition to their own name, thus showing what particular John or James or Adam the child might be the son of. The earliest forming of surnames, therefore, was the inherited father's name. You find this custom scattered all through the GUIDE LESSONS. 651 Bible. The descendants of the Twelve Tribes of Israel, each adopted and kept the tribal name in addition to their own personal name. Ben-Hur was Ben of the tribe of Hur. The use of the father's name did not become a surname, as we understand the term today, until more than one generation of descendants made the father's name permanent. For instance, John's.son would do for the first generation, but unless Johnson was kept by the grandson it did not become what we know as a surname. A surname, therefore, is a fixed addition to the personal name. A surname, according to the Funk & Wagnall's New Standard Dictionary, is a name subjoined to a given name; a family name. The Scandinavian peasantry have interchanged the patronymic form of the surname, that is, they add interchangeably the name of the father and grandfather until the custom has become confusing in the extreme to the genealogist. The Welsh patronymic form was ap, which meant, of the clan of, or tribe of, or a descendant of. Morgan Ap John Ap Richard Ap Howell Ap James, simply means Morgan who was tlie son of John who was the son of Richard who was the son of Howell who was the son of James. Sometimes this Ap became fastened on to a name in a permanent form, such as Ap Owen became Bowen, and Ap Richard became Prichard. The Gaelic or Scotch form of Patronymic was mac. Fergus MacAllister, Angus MacDougal Ian MacClure, Sandy MacLain, Robert MacClellan, simply meant Fergus who was the son of Allister; Angus who was the son of Dougal; Ian or John who was the son of Clure; Sandy who was the son Lain, and Robert the son of Clellan. The Anglo-Saxon form was originally ing, so that Alfred Atheling and Harold Edmonding, meant Alfred the son of Athel and Harold the.son of Edmond. Adopted from the Danish forms came son (sen), and all over England and among the Lowland Scotch came the forms of Henry Adamson, David Jameson, John Williamson, prefaced always by the personal name; this meant originally, Henry the son of Adam, David the son of James and John the son of William. Then the son was shortened to "s" and the surname would finally appear as Adams, Davids, Johns or W'.lliams. Patronymics or parents' names might come from the personal name of the parents or from the nickname of the parents. If the parent had been called John the Red to distinguish him from his cousin John the Black (signifying the complexion of the two men), John's son David might be called John Redson or Reding; while the other might be known as John Black's.son, or John Blacking. The forms were sometimes so disguised by poor spelling or slip-shod pronunciation that modern genealogists 
 have a difficult time in tracing" some smmames to their real patronymics origins. It also happened at times that the mother's name was added to the son or daughter's name, especially if the mother was like some women are today and always have been  the head of the household, either figuratively or in fact. Or again, if she were very prominent through birth or inheritance; and lastly, if the children were born out of wedlock they then naturally inherited the mother's name. QUESTIONS. What is the earliest form of surname known? When does a temporary added name become a real surname? What is the Welsh patronymic form? What is the Norman patronymic form? What is the Scotch form? Describe the Anglo-Saxon patronymic form? Under what circumstances did the mother's name or matronymic become a fixed surname? Note: Let the teacher discover anyone in the class who has a patronymic or metronymic form of surname. (See Smiiaiiir Book.) Or give illustrations from someone in the ward. POSSIBILITY OF OBTAINING EXTENSIVE RECORDS FOR TEMPLE WORK. In performing Temple ordinances in behalf of the dead, it is essential that the information placed on the records of the Temple shall be sufficient to properly identify each individual. The names only, without other data of identification, are almost useless, for the well-known reason that there has been and will continue to be, countless numbers of individuals bearing the name name; consequently it is required that, if possible, the date and place of birth, and date of death, be added to the full name of each person in whose behalf the Temple ordinances are performed. If either of those points of identification cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, efforts should be made to obtain, or formulate, approximate dates of those vital events, (or date of marriage or other available data) ; and the name of place where the individual lived, or died, should be included in the record if the place of birth is unknown. Methods adopted by the Temple recorders, to formulate or approximate dates etc.. are explained in printed circulars that can be procured from them. Another important point of identification that is required. v-/hen possible to be ascertained, is the relationship of the heir