[The Tasks of Modern Citizenship by G. Homer Durham]

The Tasks of Modern Citizenship Dr. G. Homer Durham Head of Political Science Department, University of Utah Render therefore unto Caesar the thin things that are God's (Matthew 22:21). HE incident calling forth this statement of Jesus may be forgotten. But the force of the message involved carries down to modern times.
What things shall be rendered unto Caesar?
What loyalties?
What demands may modern government make upon the individual in the name of the State?
What things are due only to God? Conversely, what are the rights of the individual, if any, in the State? In the Church?
What demands may the Church properly make upon the individual, with what methods?
Should teligious organizations, the churches, set the example for modern governments in dealings with the individual?
Most men would agree that an ideal religious institution should properly set the example, not only by precept, but by living institutional practice. The eleventh article of faith declares: We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. The twelfth article of faith Says: We; believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in gs which are Caesar's; and unto God the General (D. & C. 134:2) suggests that the following human tights should be held inviolate: 1. The free exercise of conscience 2. The control of property 3. The right to life These doctrines require respect for God and Church, for the State and government, and also for the individual. The worth of the individual soul and its free agency teceive the highest of all values in the gospel. As God respects the rights of man and "will force no man to heaven," so the restored Church claims no prerogatives of social action over the minds or Bodies of men. The Declaration on Governments and Laws treserves to the Church a single sanction or enforcement power—the power of excommunication. And as 'Thomas Jefferson once wrote, such action "neither picks my pocket nor bites my leg"—although serious social, economic, and physical consequences may follow spiritual loss. Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants says "Amen to the priesthood or the authority" of any man who undertakes to exercise unrighteous dominion over the souls of men. The Church, in its own 'government, not only respects the individual rights and testimony of the membership, but in applying rules of Church discipline and govPage 507 508 ernment, utilizes the doctrine of common consent as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. (See D. & C. 20:65, 67, 81-82; 26:2; 28: 10-13; 41:2; 107:12, 27, 32, 82-84.) Thus, properly developed, the restored Church respects the individual rights of man, individually, and collectively.
Although the Priesthood ls _restored and could function as Priesthood, the Church as a Church, modem revelation makes clear, cannot function as a church without the law of common consent and the free, voluntary support of its members.
This doctrine provides an excellent example and parallel for the tasks of modern citizenship. For, without indi vidual rights, there could be no effective citizenship. A_ totalitarian church could not qualify as the true church, respecting the free agency of man. Similarly, a totalitarian State substitutes abject obedience and slavish consent for intelligent, active citizenship. 'The probation of man, the gospel plan, requires freedom of conscience as the basis of both Church membership and citizenship. The Lord's respect for the things of Caesar is only another way of indicating his divine respect for the free agency of man as a fundamental truth. HAT shall be rendered unto Caesar? Can Caesar command anything? And then, must we obey? 'The answer is that the State cannot, if the nghts of man are respected, require men to do anything and_ everything. 'The rights of individual freedom of conscience, property, and life should  be held inviolate by the State.
Beyond this, with the implication that governments rest on the consent of the governed, we are obligated to obey the laws of the land —provided (D. & C. 134:5) that they meet two tests: (1) conformance to the public interest; (2) respect for, and holding sacred, the freedom of conscience. 'The tasks of modern citizenship involve, therefore, two fundamental considerations: First, the citizen must have sufficient discernment to understand the true sphere of the State. He must see that governmental activity always respects freedom of conscience and meets the public interest. Lawmaking, or any political activity, contrary to freedom of conscience, for any child of God, should be opposed.
This is a citizenship task of preventive, negative character. 'The second, or positive aspect, is to see that laws are framed and administered "for the good and safety of society" (D. & C. 134:1).
This positive, affirmative aspect leads to a related major task of modern citizenship, namely, "obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." In order to influence and positively use freedom of conscience, we must learn our rights and duties as citizens. President John Taylor taught that it was as important for us to study political principles as to study religion, "to know and comprehend the social and political interests of man, and to learn and be able to teach that which would be best calculated to promote the interests of the world" (The Gospel Kingdom, pp. 297-298). THE TASKS OF MODERN CITIZENSHIP How might this be done by a member of Relief Society?
Membership of the Relief Society is international. The following references to American practice, therefore, though local, are typical of practices in other nations. First, it is the duty of a member of the Relief Society, if pos: sible, to qualify as a voter. In the American states the qualifications vary from state to state. In Utah the basic requirements include age, residence, and registration. One must be twenty-one years of age or upwards, have been a citizen of the land for at least ninety days preceding the election, have resided in Utah for one year, in the county four months, and in the precinct sixty days.
Property qualifications are expressly forbidden by Article IV, Section 8, of the Utah Constitution.
Many people fail to qualify as voters, usually by failing to register.
Then many fail to exercise their franchise on election day. In the Salt Lake City municipal elections as few as twenty per cent of the voters sometimes participate.
This means that a mayor and city commission may be elected by an organized minority of as few as ten per cent of the qualified voters! In general Presidential elections, Utah leads the forty-eight American states in the percentage of qualified voters who go to the polls, around eighty per cent. But in municipal affairs, school board, and other by-elections, interest often lags.
This often means great power for those groups which have the foresight and initiative to orThe | 509 ganize behind 'the candidates of their choice. Secondly, after qualifying and participating as a regular voter, an active citizen needs to consider the question: "How can I influence the nomination of persons seeking election?" It is one thing to go to the polls. It is another thing to determine whose names get on the ballot in the first place! In states having the direct primary and a simple filing system, as few as five people can nominate a person for public office. In other cases, a simple designation of candidacy by a single individual does the work, providing a filing fee is paid. In Utah the filing fee is onefourth of one per cent of the total term-salary of the office sought.
Thus the filing fee for the United States Senate is $187.50, for Congressmen, $62.50, for Governor, $75, for a member of the State Legislature, $5. HERE are many ways to influence the nomination of officers. The oldest, perhaps most certain, and most influential in the long run, is to actively affiliate with one of the major political parties in your community.
Someone has to decide who runs for office. Fundamentally, this is the work of the political party. But friendly groups can also wield a strong influence.
Organization is the keynote to success in all political activity.
This leads to a third suggestion. In many communities, outstanding women have formed non-pattisan or bi-partisan civic councils. In Utah, for example, we find the Women's Legislative Council, and Is a p ' frophet-State man, page 105) 4 member of the fami] » Many go to the sound in Principle, and entirely correct as 4 matter of Policy; but it has not Worked.." 4 revolution ( Ogg and Ray, Introduc.
Tion to American Government, 8th ed., PP. 162-163), é Never work ' it should not be ©xpected to do so, But, Nevertheless, as the 'home, en. The Relief Society 'is not in ciety, Whether Republicans or DemOcrats; as wel] as other rightCOUS women everywhere, should be in Politics! Of Course, this ac. On public questions, What, | for example, are the issues Involved in THE TASKS OF MODERN CITIZENSHIP OULD you like to know the requirements and procedures for voting and holding office in your state? In nearly every instance, a letter to. The-secretary of state at your state capitol will bring you a voter's handbook, a copy of the state election and suffrage laws, © or some other convenient pamphlet.
Your state university, in nearly every instance, has bulletins which will be of some service. National, state, and local headquarters of the major political parties can always provide applicants with materials. If no other address is known, one may write the "Democratic National Committee," or, "The Republican National Committee,' Washington, D. C. The above information is purely technical, and once learned, has little value except for ready reference. Do you read a daily newspaper? If so, what in it do you tread? 'The news of public policy, as well as the comics, the women's page, and the dollar-day advertisements? 'Ten minutes each day with the front pages will keep you informed about the United -Nations, foreign - policies, national, state, and home affairs. Always "wade through" important documents, like the text of the North 511
Atlantic Treaty, a presidential message, an important speech.
Then you can make up your own mind as to its worth.
Also recommended "4sselecting a radio news broadcaster of your choice, not the editorializing, sermonizing variety (although they have their own uses), but one of the factual, concise, type.
What comes in the news may affect your pocketbook and your children's happiness. It will pay you to listen to a good newscast regularly. Our Church maintains, in the Intermountain Region, one of the finest daily newspapers and one of the best radio services in the world.
They are worthy of our patronage as we seek for information and pursue the tasks of citizenship. Moreover, our Church magazines increasingly are giving space to questions and discussions of modern factual problems. Usually, too, they contain a basis for evaluation and critical judgment of the issues of the day. If we are to be saved as fast as we gain knowledge, we will need to include knowledge pertinent to the tasks of citizenship. May we all be good citizens and make worthy use of our rights to free conscience, property, and life in the modern world! [This article may be used as supplementary material for Lesson 2 in the Social
Science Course for 1949-50 — Ed.] ibarliest (bpnng
Ruth Harwood
I lie here upon this snow-banked hill,
A very part of earth, I lie so still;
And through the far, wide silence of the place
There comes caressing rain upon my face.
And in this quiet seeming slumbering
I feel earth yearning for her lover. Spring. ibaster
Belle W. Anderson
Easter is an angel of light.
Rolling dark stones away
From the sepulchre of night's despair
Into eternal day.
JLonq IlL ong 1 1 toment
Rose Thomas Graham
"I leave her in your care," he said.
John touched his flesh, then laid
His hand on heart-torn Mary,
Bent in anguish as she prayed.
Tenderly he lifted ....
The trcmbhng body swayed.
His arm across her shoulder.
They walked on side by side.
There is no more of Mary told
Since the day that Jesus died.
She may have lived her three-score years
And ten, yes, even more.
She may have fallen asleep one night
Ah, many years before.
Perhaps she found contentment,
Children playing round her door —
With older hearts to love her.
And little feet to guide —
Until Jesus met her at the gate
The day that Mary died.

Thunderstorm
Mary Ek Knowles
MYRA reached for the paper chained together through duty and shopping bag that hung on obhgation, not love, the hook by the stove. She We'll never bicker and quarrel heard the kitchen door creak as it like the Hendersons, she vowed, swung open and she knew, without and she turned around, her lips tiltturning around, that Bob was stand- ed in a smile, her eyes very blue. She ing in the doorway. gave the same answer she had given
Her hand closed tight over the every morning since Bob came home twine handle. She shut her eyes from the hospital two months ago, and thought, if he says, ''Going 'Tes, I thought I'd run down to the somewhere, baby?" I'll scream, be- market." cause he knows I go to the market ''Bring me a magazine, will you?" at this time every morning. Bob stood with hands on his hips.
"Going somewhere, baby?" Sometimes it was difficult to re-
She wanted to swing around and member how ill he was. He looked say, "Skip it. Bob!" Three months just the same, his face ruggedly ago she wouldn't have hesitated, handsome, his auburn hair curling
But then Bob had been well. He in tight waves. He was wearing a had been section boss at Amalga- white tee shirt with AC on the mated Lumber and Construction front. Once Bob had played base-
Company. He'd been catch on the ball. Now he had to lie down and plant baseball team .... rest after the least exertion. She
Now everything was different, knew heartbreak all over again.
When the lumber mill burned Bob She said, "Yes, darling. I'll bring had rescued five of his workers from you the latest magazines." She lifted the flames. Bob was a hero. He her mouth for his kiss. His lips had a medal and a pension for life, scarcely touched hers. Her mind but he had badly burned lungs, too. snagged on the fact, and then she
And he would be a semi-invalid for looked into the living room and onthe rest of his life. to the glassed-in front porch that Myra thought of the Hendersons had become "Bob's corner." It was in the frame house on the corner a shambles again, Bob's pajamas on and more than ever held back the the big chair, a jigsaw puzzle sharp words. For over forty years dumped on the card table, maga-
Mr. Henderson had been a semi- zines and papers tumbled onto the invalid from a back injury. The floor. old couple quarreled a great deal Twice already this morning she and since the fire they had become had straightened Bob's corner! to Myra the horrible example of Couldn't he at least pick his things what she and Bob could become, if up! She saw Bob looking at her in she wasn't careful. Two people that new, watchful way he had.
Page 234

THUNDERSTORM
235
''Something wrong?" he asked, and his voice was curiously tight.
"Wrong?" she said brightly. "No, of course not."
"Well, hurry back."
It was almost the final touch, like the final drop of a dripping tap that sends one hurtling into madness.
Must he say that every time she left the house?
She smiled, "Be right back."
CHE walked out the back door, down the steps, and around the side of the house. And her steps took her around the block rather than pass the Hendersons.
I won't hurry back! She started to cry, tears she brushed angrily away as quickly as they formed. She thought, oh, what's wrong with me. I do love you, Bob.
She remembered the scene in the hospital and the doctor telling her,
"If by some miracle your husband lives he will be a semi-invalid." And she could hear her words, "I don't care. If only he'll live!"
"You're very young, Mrs. Forrest," the doctor had said kindly.
"It's not easy . . . ."
"I love Bob, Doctor, and I want to be with him no matter what happens. I'll never complain!"
And now she could hardly wait to get away. She had been braced for the big emergencies that would arise. But there hadn't been any.
After the testimonial dinner for Bob, after the publicity had died down, their life had settled into a dull, quiet pattern.
She thought, I'll be all right. It's just the heat and I didn't sleep last night. Bob was prowling around, opening and closing the icebox. turning on taps, leaving them diipping. She took the grocery list from her purse and studied it. From force of habit she walked fast. Have to hurry back . . . take care of Bob
The large super-market was crowded, but cool. She was walking towards the meat counter when a voice called, "Myra Forrest!"
It was Peggy Linford and it was quite apparent that she was going to have a baby. *Teggy!" She and Peggy had worked in "Ruth's Book
Nook" back in Habberton. Myra's hand went out to the other girl and she thought, oh, I wish I were going to have a baby, but it's impossible with the way things are.
"Wliat are you doing in Scoville,
Peggy?"
"Phil's company just transferred him here."
"We must get together."
"Let's plan to go dancing as soon as Junior is born," Peggy said.
Myra's throat tightened. "Bob was injured in the lumber mill fire.
He'll never dance again."
"Oh, I'm terribly sorry." Peggy looked almost as if she were going to cry.
"Oh, we're not so badly off,"
Myra said quickly. "Bob gets a pension for life. He isn't in bed or anything like that. But he can't work. He just stays home and rests a great deal."
"And you take care of him?"
"Oh, yes. Certainly."
"You poor darling."
The sympathy in Peggy's voice was very real, and all at once Myra had a picture of herself patiently caring for Bob. She had never thought of it quite that way before.

236
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1949
It was strangely comforting. She pushed her hair back and said quietly, "Oh, I love doing it. After all,
I am his wife, you know. No sacrifice is too great."
"Oh, yes, I know, Myra. I adore
Phil, too, but "
"Remember the fun we used to have at the 'Book Nook'?" She didn't want Peggy to say anything that would disturb the picture in her mind, the. picture of her sacrificing herself for Bob. Now, and down through the years to come.
"Oh, ril never forget. Did you know that Ruth is opening a shop here in Scoville?" Peggy asked. "She wants me to come and work for her after the baby is born, but of course
I can't. But I know she would give the job to you."
The job would be hers for the asking. And it would help out. Bob's pension was very modest. Her spirits soared and then flattened. "Oh, no,
I couldn't. Bob "
"Even for half a day?"
"I wouldn't think of leaving
Bob." She was not aware that she stood very tall, that her smile was heroically brave.
Peggy patted her arm. "You're an angel, Myra. A patient, good angel."
Again there was that strange, new, intoxicating feeling. "Oh, no, I'm not an angel, Peggy. I'm just doing my duty, as any wife would."
'pHEY parted soon after. Myra crossed ground beef off her list and bought steak. It would pinch her budget, but she would go without something herself so Bob could have the best.
The Hendersons were quarreling again. She heard their voices as she turned the corner. "You can just as well sit in the lawn swing,
Zach Henderson! Least until I get the porch washed off!"
"Don't need to wash the porch off again, and danged if I'm going to move!"
Myra was even with the Henderson's now. She could see Mr. Henderson in the rocking chair on the front porch, his feet on the railing, and Mrs. Henderson standing over him, a broom in her hand.
"You'll move!" She nodded her head so vigorously that the white bun of hair quivered. "Or I'll squirt the hose on you full force!" She marched down the steps, dropped the broom, picked up the hose and turned it on.
"Okay, I'm movin' then!" Mr.
Henderson swung his feet down from the railing and stomped angrily down the porch steps and across the lawn, short and bow-legged, his white hair seeming to stand on end with anger. "Plagued woman!
Think we was goin' to eat off the porch!"
I'll never talk to Bob like that,
Myra thought. Never. Someday people would say, "Little Mrs. Forrest ... so patient . . . never a cross word . . ." The feeling she had had when she was talking to Peggy deepened until it was like warm, sweet honey.
She opened the back door of her house, called gaily, "I'm home. Bob.
Everything all right?"
There was no answer. Something had happened. "Bob!" Terror jagged her voice. She hurried into the front room and stopped. Bob was sitting iri the big chair in his corner reading a book. You could

THUNDERSTORM
237 have answered, she thought. Didn't have to scare me to death!
''Hi!" she said, not so gaily. Bob might have been in Asia for all the attention he paid. ''Darling!''
He looked up then, frowned.
"Yeah?"
"I spoke to you twice."
She saw the muscle along his jaw tighten. "Reading."
"Everything okay?"
His fingers plowed through his hair in the quick gesture that had always been a danger signal, but he said pleasantly, "Yeh, I'm okay."
There was a silence with them staring at each other. "I bought steak for dinner. You can go on with your reading and I'll call you when dinner is ready." She turned back to the kitchen, but Bob was behind her.

Oh, no, she thought. You're not going to help me get dinner again! But Bob was already going through the shopping bag. He skinned two bananas and sliced them onto dishes of bread pudding.

Myra grabbed an apron. The big goof! The bananas were for breakfast. How did he expect to live on his pension if he didn't cooperate!

She got potatoes out of the sack, plumped them into a pan, and turned the water on with a gush.

"What kind of potatoes?" Bob was standing over her like an overgrown Airedale puppy.

"Mashed. There's some gravy in the icebox from yesterday." The paring knife hacked into a potato.

"Whoa, there, honey. Not that way. You've got a lot of waste motion. Start peeling from the top; use long, rapid strokes."

Her hands were suddenly trembling and the warm-honey feeling was gone. Oh, shut up! she wanted to cry. She said, "You peel these and put them in the pressure cooker while I set the table and heat the broiler."

She set the table. The kitchenette was small and narrow. She placed the steak in the broiler pan. She reached for the salt and stumbled into Bob.

He said, "Whoops!" and grinned. She grabbed the salt shaker, turned back. Her path was blocked by Bob's posterior as he peered into the oven. "Ought to be pretty good. Don't cook it too much this time," he said.

"I won't. Would you move, dear?"

"Oh, sure. Sorry!"

HE moved just enough to let her by, but he didn't go away. He was everywhere she turned, his big feet in the way for her to stumble over. She picked up the long-handled fork. Bob bent over the oven again. She took a deep breath, quickly handed the fork to him. "Would you mind watching the steak." She fled to the front room.

Magazines were spread over the floor in Bob's corner, all open, in some kind of crazy order. She picked them up, stacked them in a neat pile and a thought was torturing her . . . I'm not a noble person. I'm mean and small inside or I wouldn't feel as I do. But if you weren't noble, you made yourself so. She strengthened the frayed fabric of her soul with good resolutions.

"Steak's done, honey!"

Just outside the kitchen door she stopped and she felt suddenly desperate. Dinner with Bob and her sitting across from each other not talking. After two months of each other's company twenty-four hours a day—what was there left to talk about! No reliving a ball game, deciding what Smith should have done on second base when George hit a two-bagger. No office gossip . . .

Dinner was an ordeal. Twice she started to mention her meeting with Peggy and then stopped. Peggy . . . that would make Bob remember dancing. She was relieved when Bob put his napkin down and stood up.

"You go and rest while I wash the dishes." She didn't mention that she was going to iron afterwards. Maybe he would sleep until she was through.

She knew some degree of peace washing the dishes alone. There was no sound from the other room. Quietly she pulled the ironing board down from the wall. It squeaked on its hinges. She heard Bob coming. Not again. Not ironing while Bob kibitzed, "Look, honey, if you'll just be a bit more scientific, that shirt's going to be a whole lot easier to iron . . ." Swiftly, she put the board back again. She was securing the door just as Bob walked into the kitchen.

"Aren't you going to 'ron?" He looked disappointed.

"No, I'm tired. Thought I'd finish that story I started last night." She walked past him into the living room. It was incredible that in the few minutes Bob had been alone he could have so wrecked his corner. But he had. Again the magazines were spread out open on the floor. She bent and picked one up, straightened slowly, as Bob yelled, "Leave my things alone. It took me fifteen minutes to fix them just the way I wanted!"

Bob had an expression on his face like Mr. Henderson when he stomped down the porch steps. Myra bent and placed the magazine back on the floor and she had a picture of herself through the years, growing thin and frail, looking after Bob. Poor little Mrs. Forrest . . . a veritable angel . . . It was a touching picture.

She said gently, "I'm sorry, darling. I didn't realize . . ."

"You're not sorry! Why don't you say what you really think! It annoys you the way I mess things up!"

"Why, what do you mean?" The picture of the frail, patient Myra was no longer touching. There was a tenseness in the air like the ominous quiet before a storm.

Bob's fingers ruffled his hair and his words ripped through the air like forked lightning. "I'm fed up with your Florence Nightingale role. You're getting to be a martyr and you're beginning to enjoy it!"

"A martyr! You've got a lot of nerve!" The anger within her ignited like gasoline, and all at once the grievances she had held back came flaming out.

They stood in the center of the room shouting at each other, and their words were like claps of thunder.

"If you're so fed up, why don't you leave me, then?" he growled.

"I will. I'm going to get a job at the bookstore!"

"I wish you would!"