[Social Science: The Significance of the Declaration of Belief by G. Homer Durham]
THE  TASKS  OF  MODERN  CITIZENSHIP  511 
"lATOULD  you  like  to  know  the  Atlantic  Treaty,  a  presidential  mes- 
requirements  and  procedures  sage,  an  important  speech.  Then 
for  voting  and  holding  office  in  you  can  make  up  your  own  mind  as 
your  state?  In  nearly  every  in-  to  its  worth.  Also  recommended 
stance,  a  let^  ta  the  secretary  of  ""  ®  ■%electing  a  radio  news  broadcast- 
state  at  your  state  capitol  will  bring  er  of  your  choice,  not  the  editorial- 
you  a  voter's  handbook,  a  copy  of  izing,  sermonizing  variety  (al- 
the  state  election  and  suffrage  laws,  though  they  have  their  own  uses), 
or  some  other  convenient  pamph-  but  one  of  the  factual,  concise, 
let.  Your  state  university,  in  near-  type.  What  comes  in  the  news 
ly  every  instance,  has  bulletins  may  affect  your  pocketbook  and 
which  will  be  of  some  service.  Na-  your  children's  happiness.  It  will 
tional,  state,  and  local  headquar-  pay  you  to  listen  to  a  good  news- 
ters  of  the  major  political  parties  cast  regularly. 
can  always  provide  applicants  with  Our  Church  maintains,  in  the 
materials.  If  no  other  address  is  Intermountain  Region,  one  of  the 
known,  one  may  write  the  ''Demo-  finest  daily  newspapers  and  one  of 
cratic  National  Committee,"  or,  the  best  radio  services  in  the  world. 
'The  Republican  National  Com-  They  are  worthy  of  our  patronage 
mittee,"  Washington,  D.C.  as  we  seek  for  information  and 
The  above  information  is  pure-  pursue  the  tasks  of  citizenship, 
ly  technical,  and  once  learned,  has  Moreover,  our  Church  magazines 
little  value  except  for  ready  refer-  increasingly  are  giving  space  to 
ence.  Do  you  read  a  daily  news-  questions  and  discussions  of  mod- 
paper?  If  so,  what  in  it  do  you  ern  factual  problems.  Usually,  too, 
read?  The  news  of  public  policy,  they  contain  a  basis  for  evaluation 
as  well  as  the  comics,  the  women's  and  critical  judgment  of  the  issues 
page,  and  the  dollar-day  advertise-  of  the  day.  If  we  are  to  be  saved 
ments?  Ten  minutes  each  day  as  fast  as  we  gain  knowledge,  we 
with  the  front  pages  will  keep  you  will  need  to  include  knowledge 
informed  about  the  United  Na-  pertinent  to  the  tasks  of  citizen- 
tions,  foreign  policies,  national,  ship.  May  we  all  be  good  citizens 
state,  and  home  affairs.  Always  and  make  worthy  use  of  our  rights 
''wade  through"  important  docu-  to  free  conscience,  property,  and 
nients,  like  the  text  of  the  North  life  in  the  modern  world! 
[This  article  may  be  used  as  supplementary  material  for  soeial  science  lesson  5,  February 
1950,  which  will  be  published  in  the  Magazine  November  1949 — Ed.] 
  « ^  » 
Kj^mmortalityi 
Jessie  M.  Rohinson 
Light  comes  from  distant  worlds, 
And  air  vibrates  with  sound. 
With  faith,  I  too,  shall  find 
A  far-off  place,  where  lighJ- 
And  sound  abound. 

LKeuef  Soaetii  iBuuding   /Lews 
nPHE  names  of  the  following  missions  and  branches  in  missions  have  not 
previously  been  published  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  as  having 
completed  their  Building  Fund  quotas: 
Norwegian  Mission 
Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Aalesund  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Arendal  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Basel  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Bergen  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Bern  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Biel  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Burgdorf  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Chur  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Drammen  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Frankenburg  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission 
Fredrikstad  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Haag  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Halden  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Haugesund  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Horten  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Interlaken  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission 
Larvik  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Luzern  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Moss  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Narvik  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Olten  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Oslo  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Pratteln  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Salzburg  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Solothurn  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission 
Stavanger  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Trondheim  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Tonsberg  Branch,  Norwegian  Mission 
Wien  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
Winterthur  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission 
Zurich  Branch,  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
It  lore  at  [Peace 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Page  512 
I  shall  go  out  beneath  the  sky, 
Shall  walk  with  winds,  hear  song  of  birds, 
I  shall  come  back  more  wise  and  more  at  peace 
Than  from  multitudinous  words.
