U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting was held Nov. 30th,
1895, at the office of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, President E. B, Wells in the chair.
Opening prayer by Mrs. Z. D. H. Young.
Roll called, members answered with poetical
sentiments from E. R. Shipp.


Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor read a very able
and interesting paper on the life and labors
of Eugene Field and closed with one of
his favorite poems, “Little Boy Blue.”
	Comments on the paper were next in
order. The discussion opened by Miss
Laura Hyde relating a newspaper article,
she had recently read, refering to the
peculiarities of the poet’s nature. His lack
of business tact. How he squandered his
means on novelties—“bought butterflies
instead of paying his taxes.” His nature
being so intensely poetical he could not
dwell on common-place and practicalities.
	Mrs. L. D. Alder spoke of a notable
event of his life. Some twenty-four years
ago he was supposed to have passed from
this mortal existence, but through some
strange intervention he lived again.
	Mrs. H. A. Badger and Dr. E. R. Shipp
each read poems from the same author
Bethlehem Town” and “Singing in God’s
Acre" both showing the powerful pathos
and spirituality of this noted writer.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder then read an
original poem entitled “In the City of the
Dead”
	On motion of Mrs. R. M. Fox the rules
were suspended and the meeting assumed
the form of an informal reception in honor
of the Misses Chase from Boston who were
present on the occasion.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young and President E.
B. Wells made speeches of welcome, and
the guests of honor spoke at length upon
their travels through the old and new world
from Alpine heights to the orange groves
of California from the plains of Colorado,
to the volcanoes of Honolulu, depicting in
eloquent language the grand and interest-
ing scenes witnessed upon such a journey,
closing with a glowing tribute to the
beautiful Salt Lake valley as seen from the
roof of the hotel Knutsford—the mountain
scenery, snow-capped hills—equal to the
Alps, the charming sunsets, the growing
city with its broad streets, the thriving
business blocks, and more than all the
sweet home life of the people, had made
an impression not soon to be forgotten.
	The chairman of program committee
read the program for Dec. 31st and the
session adjourned to meet at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s Dec. 31st, 1895, at 2 p. m.
