the fresh written sheets scattered about,
“my sakes, tomorrow will be Christmas
and you up till mornin and not a soul here
to wish you ‘Merrie Christmas.”
	“Never mind Polly fetch the toast, and
you go to bed and sleep well; we’ll have a
crowd here tomorrow, never fear.”
	Polly goes muttering to herself, about
“people that’s allers writin, and makin
nothin by it, and never a word for anybody,
and never thinkin of the work that has to
be done by somebody; now there’s Mrs.
Le Fevre, she’s going to give her girls a
day off, and a fine dinner, and every one
on'em will have a new gown, or some finery,
that’s something like when one’s worked
hard all the year; I don’t see what Missus
wants to keep on year after year for, and
never take a rest; she’ll die in her chair
someday, and who’ll be the better, she’s
nothin to leave but old piles of papers, and
letters and books.”
	Nevertheless Polly brought in the tray
and the woman drank the tea, though she
seemed not to know she was eating or drink-
ing; there was the same dreamy look in her
eyes, and she started as the doors shook as
if some one claimed entrance, and the case-
ments rattled and the wind shrieked and
moaned like living creatures in distress.
The Christmas bells rang out at midnight,
she paused a moment in her work (for she
had resumed her pen) and the tears fell
down her pale cheeks like rain; she was
thinking of her loved ones long since laid
away in the quiet grave yard. On and on
she worked, every now and then listening
to the wind to catch its music, when its
wildest notes rang out upon the night air,
and echoed through the empty rooms, every
sound seeming to her sensitive nerves,
strung to the finest tension, like living
voices, full of the sweetness and melody,
that once filled the dear old home where she
had lived O, so many long years. But we
must not linger over these memories; the
story was not finished until the grey morn-
ing was dawning on the Eastern hills.

	In the visions of the night time.
		When the world is fast asleep,
	Troops of pictures loom before us,
		Saddest mem’ries vigils keep.


