A SAILOR BOY’S STORY.
	Once upon a time, a very long time ago
too, a great ship was sailing far away over
the sea in the Indian ocean, with all her
sails spread, and the breezes blowing hot,
and the Captain pacing the broad deck of
his handsome vessel, heard a rough sailor
lad swearing as he was calling to a slender
boy far up in the rigging of the ship and
ordering him to draw in sail, and as the boy
tried but could not reach, he swore furiously
at the lad; Captain Dorr, brave but tender
ordered the stalwart sailor sharply to go
himself to the boy’s rescue, as he saw the
danger, and bring the boy safe to deck.
	When this was done the Captain sent the
sailor about his business and interrogated
the lad, after his own fashion, “How in the
name of all the saints came you aboard a
whaler, what’s your name, and where have
you been, hid away that I’ve never seen
you before? You run away from home
didn’t you, well I did the same thing my-
self or I might have been a well to do man
now instead of sailing the high seas on a
whaler, and never able to stand straight
when I go ashore, We’re out for a five
year’s voyage, my boy, and no chance for
you to get home again, unless we meet a
ship going in and I wouldn’t like to trust
you with strangers, no knowing if you’d
ever see land if I did. No, I think I’ll
take care of you, myself, go and call Tim,
Mr. Taft, I mean, my first mate you know,
but you’ve not told me who you are.” The
boy looked up to see if the Captain was in
earnest for the sailors had told him such
dreadful stories to scare him into doing their
bidding. “My name is Frank Easton, and
I did run away.” “Well, never mind that
now, I’ll take care of you, I’ve none of my
own.” The boy soon found the first mate
and the Captain made some inquiries about
the boy, and bade the mate inform the crew
Frank was only to wait upon him. “All
right Captain, I’m very glad, I’ve been
sorry for the boy from the first, he’s had a
hard time so far.”
	Ever since Frank had left his home, en-
ticed away by bad men who had given him
grog (he had never tasted liquor of any
kind before) he had mourned for his mother,
and whenever he was left alone for a few
minutes he would weep as if his very heart
would break. Afterwards when he lay for
weeks with the fever in the hot climate of
the South sea, he talked incessantly to the
Doctor of his home, until sometimes the
good old man would turn away to wipe his
eyes, though he was accustomed to all sorts
of trying scenes. All the long years, while
Frank was aboard the good ship Durango,
he never heard one word from his home.
He did not dare to write, yet he must have
known how terrible it was to his mother,
only boys can never quite realize a mother’s
grief; the Captain took to him wonderfully
and watched him during the fever many a
long night through, charging the Doctor
and the old negro nurse to take the best of
care of him.
	When Frank was better nurse Susie said
one day “you’re getting peert now, you’ll let
your mammy know how you are, as you’ve
talked so much about her all the time; she
must be most crazy. I dreamt of her one
night when I was sittin here all alone, and
you was tossin and moanin, and hot as fire
with fever, and I was so tired my eyes
would’nt stay open nohow, and she come
right in here, and went up to you in that
cot and put her hands, so white and thin,


[Column 1]
on your curly head, and you looked up and
give a great scream, and woke me right up,
and I felt her cold hands touch mine, and
when I ran up to you, what did you say,
but, "O mammy nurse I’ve seen my mother;
and I said, ‘yes honey, she’s been here, I
seen her too,’ and then the fever was on you,
and I called Dr. Van Norton, and he pooh
poohed and said ‘Mammy you had the night-
more,’ but it want no nightmare as sure as
you live, and your mammy was here, and
I knowed her cause when you had the
’lirum and out’n your head you said O,
mammy, with her soft hands and long
silken curls, and pretty dresses. Bress you
I heard the silk gown rustling, I knows
what I’se talkin ’bout.” Frank wondered
at Mammy, but couldn’t quite understand,
he didn’t remember the dream, though he
had sometimes woke with the feeling that
his mother was close by, and looking up
always saw nurse Susie, black and fat,
so different, from his pale, sweet-faced
mother, but she called him honey, and
tended him carefully and was patient and
kind. He wished sometimes to be left,
perhaps his mother would come, but yet he
knew she couldn’t. One day he asked
Mammy if she knew how to pray, there
was a terrible storm and the ship’s crew
made such a noise over head and Mammy
was rocking herself to and fro, making him
feel so queer and scared, “bress your soul
honey, I know how to pray, but I don't do
it now, ’cause I don’t care to live, I’se a
slave, I haint nothin to pray for, now maybe
this ere storm’ll take us all and swaller us
up in the bottom o’the sea, I dun care.”
	“But mammy you’ll be all right when
the ship goes in, wont you? You’ll be free
then.” “A lot you knows, course I wont,
silly chile, I’ll be jest the same.”
	“If you come home with me I’ll take care
of you, mammy, my mother’ll keep you,”
“but she can’t, heap you knows chile, you
don’t know ’bout niggers up there in
the North does ye?” “I guess not Mam-
my by what you say.” “Well chile I
guess I’se pretty happy as long as Massa
Cap’n lives, but when he dies old mammy
want to go too, I’se took care o’him and
toted him roun when he was a leetle baby,
and when all the nigga’s done sole out, he 
buy me in for a hundred dollars, and bring
me on ship we’him.”
	Just then the ship gave a great lurch and
Frank fainted, and old mammy roared out
that he was dead, but no one came, all were
too busy to hear anything except the roar 
of the terrific storm; but he revived again
and fell off to sleep dreaming of his mother,
and the home folks and the school, and the
boys and girls he used to know. He al-
ways told nurse his dreams, and when he
was well enough he read to her out of the
Captain’s books. Once after a severe
storm, the Captain came down into the
cabin and told Frank the ship was going in-
to port for repairs, and he would send a let-
ter home for him, and let his parents know
he was safe, and when he returned to
America he would bring him safe back to
them. Frank consented and the letter was
written, it was very brief but Frank asked
the Captain to tell his mother that he had
often dreamed she was with him, while he
was ill. “Tell her about nurse Susie how
good she has been to me.” When the
Captain left the cabin to go on deck mammy
said, “what for you tell your proud mother
’bout me honey, she can’t help me, and ole
massa'll be mad, he’ll think I ve been tell-
in you somethin. And now I’se gwine to

[Column 2]
tell you, tomorrow’s the blessed Lord’s day,
now honey I don’t spose you know what
day ’tis no more, since you’ve been sick,
no more'n I do and I dunno know, but I
heard them sailors sayin as ’twas nigh onto
Christmas, an they swore they’d have some
rum, and so I told massa Cap’n, and he
said, “Susie, they shall all have a fine din-
ner, and plenty of good meat; oxen, rice,
yams, and fruits—for we’re going into the
port of Madagascar, and must lay to for the
ship to be repaired,” “now what you think
chile about Christmas on the island ’mong
them savages, what eats people up.” “But
mammy we shan’t go on shore and we’re
well protected with big guns.”
	“I dun care chile we’se goin to have
Christmas dinner," and sure enough a
sumptuous dinner was given to the ship’s
crew, but Frank only thought of his home,
and the sorrow there, and his heart was
heavy. He never forgot that day at Mada-
gascar, so hot at Christmas time that one
could scarcely breathe, while at home he
knew it was cold, snow and ice.
	The long voyage was over at last and the
great whale ship reached America in due
course of time. Many of the sailors had
died and been cast into the sea; at first
Frank thought he could never look on and
see these warm-hearted sailors wrapped in
the sail cloth let down among the sharks,
but he grew accustomed to these dreadful
things after a while; it was only a burial at
sea that was all.
	The ship lay at anchor near a large city
and the usual bustle and confusion of un-
lading, and of official examinations was
going on, the captain so busy as to forget
Frank, but in the meantime the boy was
hesitating whether he dared to go home at
all. Fear lest anything had happened in
his absence to those he really loved, and
shame for the disgrace and sorrow he had
brought upon them by running away. He
knew not what to do, but he was provided
for; the letter Captain Dorr had sent for
him, had reached its destination and while
he was reflecting what course to take his
father came on board, having waited and
watched anxiously day after day for the
ship’s return.
	No words of mine can describe the scene
between the father and son, when they met
on the deck of the vessel. Both were
changed, the father’s hair was grey with
sorrow and the boy had merged into man-
hood, his voice had changed too, his father
did not recognize in the young man in
sailor costume, his boy Frank, nor did the
boy know in this elderly grey-haired man,
the father whom he had so cruelly left. It
was only upon inquiry among the sailors
that the father found his son.
	Frank could not speak, his utterance was
choked with sobs, the father only said “My
boy where is your Captain?” Frank was
glad of an excuse to turn away and look
for him, and as soon as Captain Dorr came
he asked “Where is the boy’s mother?
	He has talked of her constantly.” There
was no answer for a moment, then a heavy
sigh and Mr. Easton could only whisper,
“she is dead.” Imagine the anguish of
that boy, he was indeed sorely stricken,
even Captain Dorr accustomed as he was to
scenes of suffering and of grief, could
scarcely speak, but tried to comfort Frank
in his rough, sailor fashion. Frank felt he
had been the cause, and he dared not look
his father in the face; he wondered after-
wards, why he had not died, when he
heard the fatal tidings.

[Column 3]
	Finally Frank and his father were ready 
to go ashore, and when leaving the ship,
urged Captain Dorr, who had been such a
faithful friend to come and see them at the
earliest possible moment. He promised to
do so, as soon as all the necessary work
was finished and reported to the ship own-
ers. And sorrowful indeed Frank said
“Good-bye,” feeling he could never again
go aboard any vessel.
	After the first few weeks of sadness and
repentance at home, Frank Easton became
a sort of hero, among his associates, and
the village girls (for his home was in a vil-
lage a few miles out from the great seaport)
were infatuated with his rather foreign
manners; and his tales of the countries he
had seen, lent a sort of glamour that was
facinating to simple country people. He
was invited everywhere, and was the envy
of the other boys of his acquaintance;
jealousy crept in too and he began to feel
unhappy, he had no sister to advise him
and his brothers were busy with their own
affairs, and the temptation to go away from
it all, to go to sea again was too strong to be
resisted, but he determined not to deceive
his father, but to tell him of his plans. 
	Before many days after this idea had
seized upon him, he said to his father, “I
must go to sea once more father, the desire
to be on the ocean is too strong upon me to
be overcome. I have looked at the matter
on all sides. I seem out of place here; my
aunt Hetty does not care to have me at
home; she looks upon me as an interloper.
You are occupied with your business and
do not need me, and my brothers will be
married before long from all appearances.
If I guess right Aunt Hetty intends to make
her future home with you, and I shall be in
the way. I love the sea, but I want to go
with your permission this time.”
	My son you must not feel you are not
welcome in your father’s house. I have
never been able to tell you of your mother’s
suffering on your account; it is too sorrow-
ful a tale, would I could forget it; but
wherever you go remember her love and
devotion, and never break another heart as
you did hers.” Frank was completely
overcome and left the room to weep alone;
but in a later conversation he said to his
father: “I feel I can be a better and truer
man on the water than to remain here; I’ll
try never to disgrace the name I bear, and
my thoughts on the solemn night watch,
with the stars overhead, and the wild waves
all around me, shall be of my mother whom
I loved more than I can tell you, though
she knew it not.”
	O it is ever thus, those we love most
never know the depth of our affection, it is
only to the winds and waves we dare to
utter it.
	And so it was settled that Frank should
go on board a merchant vessel this time to
the Mediterranean sea and cruise among the
islands. The girls were disappointed when
they learned of his intentions, and he was
showered with souvenirs of love and con-
stancy. He was mate on the vessel, and
quite efficient, for Captain Dorr in visiting
him, had given him letters that were a pass-
port to favor of his competency. He was
away nearly two years, and enjoyed the
voyage very much this time, but wanted to
see his father, aud also some of the young
women who had been so profuse in senti-
ment when he bade them fare well on going
away.
	Immediately upon going on shore he met
with one of his old friends from the village,


[Column 1]
and they went together to have supper.
Harry Colton had much to tell him of what
had transpired during his absence, and
wound up with asking him to go to a meet-
ing he was to attend that evening. “O is
it the sailor’s prayer meeting,” said Frank,
"I was thinking to go as soon as I could
find one after coming into harbor, we had a
kind of religious Master on board ship
and I partly promised him to find a prayer
meeting in the city, instead of going off on
a spree as sailors do generaly as soon as
they touch land.”
	"No. it is not a sailor’s prayer meeting,”
Harry replied, "but it is a meeting where
there is praying and preaching, and won-
derful singing, and I believe it is real Bible
doctrine they preach, for they take the
Scriptures literal and you don’t have to be
a parson to understand them. Will you
go, you’ll not go home before tomorrow?”
	“Yes, I'll go,” said Frank, “to please
you, and out of curiosity, it will be some-
thing new, at least from what you say.
And I’m fond of variety, and of novelties.
I don’t think I could ever settle down to a
humdrum life now, after my varied expe-
riences.”
	Frank nor Harry little knew what would
be the result of that evening’s meeting.
They were both convinced of the truth of
the Gospel preached by the two mission-
aries, and the consequence was the Elders
were invited to the village of N.—and
the two young men became converts to the 
faith of the Latter-day Saints. But all was
not peace at home for Frank. He had in-
vited those Elders to his father’s house.
This time he was not returning as a prodi-
gal, but with a feeling of independence and
assured in his own mind that any friends
of his would be welcome. Harry also ac-
companied him, and the welcome was a 
cordial one until in course of conversation
it came out that these men were “Mormon”
Elders, and then the stepmother, (Aunt
Hettie,) was furious; she would not allow
these followers of a false prophet to sleep
under her roof. Mr. Easton was greatly
embarrassed, but had not the courage to
decide against his wife, and Frank, Harry
and the young men took an abrupt leave of
the home.
	Frank had money, and he succeeded in
getting a hall for a meeting, and as soon as
the rumor spread through the town that
Frank had returned from his voyage at sea,
it was easy to get an audience Persecu-
tion, however, began, first of all through
Mrs. Easton’s inhospitable behavior. and
Frank soon after left the village, though
half the girls were more or less in love with
him. He was accompanied by Harry Col-
ton, and together they obtained a position
some distance away among strangers. But
they found in the new locality whither they
went a branch of the same church, and
united with it, and soon became acquainted.
Here Frank fell in love for the first time in
his life, and after some time he married
Gratia Beamen, a fine young woman, who
had also been converted to the same faith a
few months previous to his coming to S.—
and about a year after they gathered to
Nauvoo. Here they met the usual trials,
but remained firm. Frank often had the
desire when things went wrong to leave all
and go to sea again, and would say to his
wife: “You know you can go home any-
time to your mother, who was so opposed
to your coming West, and I’ll make a little
money and come back to the Church, its

[Column 2]
only that I can’t bear to see you go without
what you’ve always had, and I can’t earn
enough here to keep the wolf from the
door.” But Gratia strong and determined
would reply: “No, Frank, we’ve given up
all for our religion, let us stand by that.”
And so they did, through poverty, through
sickness, and all sorts of hardships, coming
out from Nauvoo half provided, and living
in Winter Quarters, where the lack of veg-
etables and comfortable food caused sick-
ness and death, but they were true and
faithful through it all.
	When the Pioneers were called to go and
find a resting place for the Saints, Frank
—was one of the number, and his wife
followed with that first famous company of
1847. Here they endured much the first
few years. Some day the writer may tell
you more of this grand character, but now
the sailor boy’s story is already too long.
Because of poverty, and perhaps too, on ac-
count of the roving spirit of his boyhood,
he tried his luck in the gold mines of Cali-
fornia, shortly after they were opened, arid
brought home some gold and many curiosi-
ties.
	At different periods afterwards he went
seeking his fortune in new fields of enter-
prise; but always among the Saints in some
new locality where such men are use-
ful in colonizing, and though he never
succeeded in obtaining wealth, yet he
remained true to the faith he had em-
braced with so much zeal, and which
controlled in him this strong passion for
roving about the world; proving what a
power the Gospel is in keeping men in the
line of duty, if they will yield to its influ-
ence. He would have died many years be-
fore he did if he had followed the sea.
	Harry Colton, his friend, commenced
as firm as Frank, but fell by the wayside.
The wife was a strength and help to him in
his church duties, and their children are the
heirs of noble ancestors, and in the future
they will have a great work to do, in help
ing to redeem them, for both father and
mother have long since passed away.


