CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
[Continued.]
	I am not merely speaking for my-
self, but all the women speakers in Colorado
I think were equally fortunate. I went to
one place in Colorado and when I met the
lady who entertained me she looked rather
surprised. I stayed three days, and she did
everything in the world to make it pleasant
for me and just before I went away she
said: “I am a very honest woman and I 
was very sorry when I heard you were
coming and I am very glad that you came,
but when the telegram came that you were
coming I was not very glad. I took it to 
my next door neighbor and I said, ‘Look at
that. There is a political woman coming
here. She is six feet tall and weighs about 
250 pounds and she has a voice that you can
hear a mile.’ She said, “You came in
looking so tired and so slight that I wanted
to take you up in my arms and put you to
bed.” So you see they wanted us to do all
sorts of extraordinary things. Once in a
while you have a word you would like to 
express that is extraordinary strong I re-
member once in a convention a man became
rather excited and he started up and doubled
up his fist and said, “O, if there were no 
women here I would give $5,000,00.’ So
you see it was good for women to be there
as they better the morals and introduce
politeness into politics. Man brings into
politics the binding force that prevents the 
political universe from going off in a 
tangent; woman is the centrifugal force,
the force that binds and keeps the earth
from going off into space; but if we had the 
complete control of politics we probably
would have made just as much of a muddle
of it as the men have made of it. But I
think I see the dawning of a most beauti-
ful day, a day of truth and love and loyalty.
	Already the movement has formed for re-
form and is vastly being exerted by the wo-
men. The women are now organizing in
Denver regardless of political faith. We
do not recognize insurmountable obstacles;
if the obstacles are there they must be
walked around, climbed over or swept out
of the way. There is no such thing as an 
insurmountable object to a woman who
knows she is right, and municipal mis-
management is going to be prevented in the 
City of Denver because we women are go-
ing to roll away the strong party bias which
has no place whatever in the City affairs
and we are going to stand together Repub-
licans, Democrats and Populists and de-
clare in State affairs that politics and ethics
shall be one. We have begun the work
already and I hope before six months have

[Column 2]
gone by that the world will see that the
municipal politics of a city where women
have the ballot, means something a great
deal better than municipal politics can pos-
sibly mean where women have not the bal-
lot. We are educated to believe the more
we use the ballot that it is a supreme
responsibility and a very precious privilege
and we like it better every day, and yet to
use that ballot right means that we must 
study hard, and no education has been of
greater value to us than the sober sense of
responsibility which comes from the
knowledge that the opinions which we ut-
ter can be counted and we weigh those 
opinions well and you know there is no
educator in the world so great as responsi-
bility, I think the reason women have been
thought to be ambitious is just because they
do know responsibility. They could say
what they pleased and it didn’t count they
could keep still if they liked and it didn’t
count. Everything we say in Colorado
counts and I think as time goes on our
worth will be recognized more and more.
	Your Mr. Roberts said in reference to some
argument against suffrage that he would
expect that from a Republican but he would
not have expected it from a Democrat.
Well, I would not expect a remark against
suffrage from a Republican because I think
a good Republican is a good American 
citizen and no good American citizen can
conscientiously oppose Woman Suffrage and
be faithful to the spirit of his constitution.
(Applause.) I would like to say to him as
he said of some other Democrat: “Oh, fie
upon a Democrat for using such an argu-
ment’’ because every single implication of
the supremely democratic idea of absolute
equality of rights and absolute freedom for
the individual is contradicted when a man
or woman shall say that women too, should
not have equal rights. I have never seen
Mr. Roberts, I wish I could see him be-
cause I am just as loyal a Democrat as he
is and I say—Oh fie upon any Democrat
who will put such an interpretation upon
the Declaration of Independence! Fie up-
on the American be he Democrat, Republi-
can or Populist who dare say that equal
suffrage is not the idea of this broad earth.
(Applause.) We think we have been led
to understand the difference between liberty
and freedom. A friend of mine a distin-
guished writer says there is a great differ-
ence between liberty and freedom and I 
think he is right in his distinction. He
said that liberty has restrictions, it is limited, 
but that freedom is something more, it is
affirmative, it is the power to do right, but
such power is not in the hands of a great
many of our countrymen today. And how
much more glorious it will be when we can
have the power to do right.


