AN EVENI	IN THE COUNTRY.

	‘‘Put another log on the grate, Dor’thy,
and draw the stockings back a bit so they
won’t burn. Its cold outside and time for
Santa to begin his work,” said Mrs. Parry,
the mother of five children, one cold
Christmas Eve.
	They lived in a little log cabin, just out-
side a small country town and, though they
had very little money. they were happy as
happy could be for what they had was all
their own. Each loved the others dearly
and all were willing to do anything in their
power to make the others happy.

[Column 2]
	Someone was heard at the door, stamp-
ing their feet as if shaking the snow off.
The door opened and there stood Ben, the
oldest boy, with bundles under each arm,
in each hand and sticking out of every
pocket.
	“How quick you were Ben. You’re a
trump, and did you—Yes—I’ll bet you did;
boys at the frisky age of sixteen always do
forget, and I wanted that pink mull for
Grace’s doll dress.”	“O! Dear! What
shall we do?” Cried Dor’thy, apparently
in great trouble.
	Poor Ben had to stand it all, but when
he laid the bundles down and began to open
them, with the assurance from her mother
that she would find something in her trunk
for the dress, Dorathy recovered herself and
came to join in the sight-seeing. This was
the first Christmas she had been allowed, to
stay up and play Santa Claus, so she was
very anxious to see how everything was
done.
	“Now Ben run out and see if your father
is coming. He went up the mountain
a ways to get a tree. Its about time he
was here. As you come back bring that
basket of apples and some popcorn out of
that sack on the top shelf in the cellar.
We must just fly around here if we get
through in time to be in bed when the
children wake. Dorathy, put the molasses
on and don’t let it burn.”	Thus Mrs.
Parry gave her orders and all were set to
work in good ernest.
	“Isn’t my candy getting white” proudly
ejaculated Dorathy as she pulled it with all
her might. “Yes, and aint I getting a lot
of white popcorn. There, that’s enough
stretching, pull it out thin and make it in-
to canes and hurry up so you can help me
thread the corn and cranberries. I got
some in town. Won’t they look jolly on
the tree though?” said Ben.
	Dorathy moulded her candy, ran out and
put it on the bench to cool and started on
the corn. While Mrs. Parry was very
busy sewing the last button on the new
dress she had made for Jane, and making
the doll dress for Gracie’s baby.
	“How lovely!” cried all at once as Mr.
Parry brought the Christmas tree in. “Yes,
its the finest one I ever saw. Wont my
darlings be happy in the morning when
they see how good Santa has been to them,”
answered he.
	The tree was set in the middle of the
floor and all began trimming it. “I’ll start
at the top and you, Dorathy, at the bottom
to put the corn and cranberries on, don’t
pull it too tight—there that’s fine” said
Ben. “Wont it be scrumpious.”
	“Yes, that’s nice” said their mother.
“You two would make a capital Santa
Claus, you do it so quickly. That’s right
in all your walks of life, what you do, do
well but don’t spend too much time at it.
Don’t forget the curly-cues. They are in
the bottom of the cupboard. Tie them
with thread around on the tree and put lots
of apples on, both red and yellow. They
make it look so nice. I can remember
when I was a little girl how proud I felt
when I found a big red apple in the toe of
my stocking, for they were very scarce
where we lived. You children should be
very thankful for all the blessings you en-
joy.” And so they were for together they
answered, “We are with such a good
mother and father.”
	“Put the canes on. They wont need
any strings and Ben bring me those wal-

[Column 3]
nuts from the closet. I know they will be
good with some of that candy. I picked
out the largest ones from the north tree to
save for Christmas,’’ said the Father.
	Finally the tree was finished, the dolls
dressed and set in the tree, the little cart
that Ben had made for Jimmie, put under
it and they were ready to fill the stockings.
“This is the best time of all. Hand me
that little yellow apple it will just fit in the
toe of Gracie's stocking,” said Dorathy.
	“O! Let’s play a joke on Jim It will be
such fun,” said Ben.
	“All right, what shall it be?” answered
Dor’thy. “Well, I’ll tell you, hand me
that little piece of candy and that roll of
paper and some thread. Now you see
we’ll wrap it up and tie it in a knot and
keep doing that till we get a big bundle;
then he’ll think he’s got something great
and keep thinking he will get the last paper
off and then find its only a piece of candy,”
answered Ben.
	“Ha! Ha! That’s the best joke of the
season, won’t it be fun,” cried Dor’thy.
	The stockings were hung in their places
again, a last look taken at the most lovely
tree and they dispersed for the night. But
Dor’thy did not go to sleep, she waited un-
til she thought all were asleep, then crept
in where the tree was and placed three
bundles on it. The first had written on in
large letters “Mother” and contained two
hemstitched handkerchiefs, all her own
work, the next was a slipper case for
“Father,” and the other a pair of mittens
for “Brother Ben”.
	They were small presents indeed but,
given with so much love, I think they were
appreciated as much as anything could have
been.
	Dor’thy crawled into her cosy bed think-
ing, “Well, I used to enjoy Christmas very
much, thinking of all the good things
Santa Claus would bring me, but these
are the happiest hours I ever spent doing
that which will give happiness to others.”
							E. R. S.


