ARE WE WORTHY?

	YES, this question often arises in my
mind; now since we are called Latter-day
Saints, are we worthy of this name? How
do we compare wiih the former-day Saints?
	I well remember after I believed this
Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught,
and could see plainly it was the same in
every respect, I was about to accept it with
all my heart, I was asked if I could afford
to be called a Saint. I replied “no, indeed!
I would not dare to be called a saint. That
would imply one who was holy and had ar-
rived at perfection.” No this, was a stum-
bling block to me, and I felt to object say-
ing it would be presumption.
	Then I was told by accepting the Gospel
and obeying its laws I would thereby ar-
rive at that state, and become a Saint, just
as the former-day Saints did. Well what
were those laws. Christ’s Sermon on the
Mount, was the beginning, and to love the
Lord with your might, mind and strength,
and love your neighbor as yourself, our
Savior said would include all of the com-
mandments that Moses had received. Then
to read the Epistles of St Peter, James and
John and St. Paul, you will see how great
blessings of the Spirit they gained by ob-
serving these laws and putting them in
practice. I could then see there was a pos-
sibility of becoming a Saint, by applying our
minds to the lessons, and I resolved to
make the effort, feeling encouraged by the
invitation Jesus gave, saying “Take my
yoke upon you and learn of me for my
yoke is easy and the burden is light.” I
then made the effort, it is now over fifty
years, and I find it is even so, when I have
the good spirit, it is a joyful feeling to carry
into practice those laws, but without that
spirit it would have an opposite effect.
	But remember this good spirit is easily
grieved, as our Savior said, “If ye love any-
thing more than me ye are not worthy of
me.” And the Apostle James says if any
man love the world the love of the Father
is not in him: ye can not serve God and
mammon.
	Well since we have our agency to choose
which to love best let us be wise, in making
our choice. I believe a sound mind will
naturally love sound principles best. And
such are the teachings of Jesus the Savior
of the world, and the more we become
acquainted with those principles, the greater
joy it affords, until we feel to explain truly
this is the true riches: because it affords
that dignity and self-respect, with a com-
posed mind, which dignity with the spirit

[Column 2]
of the world would be lacking in composure
of mind. No, with the worldly spirit it
makes one reckless. No, it does not teach
you patience and composure of mind which
the good spirit teaches, also to cultivate
hope, as the Apostle Peter says, “Cast all
your care upon Him for he careth for you.”
And the Apostle James says that “Perfect
love casts out fear, for fear hath torment,”
then let me ask what riches are superior to
this; is it not the true riches?
	Now let me ask, what sensible sound-
minded person could prefer the riches of
this world to that which is taught in the
New Testament by Jesus and His Apostles.
	I feel to regret that the people in these
days are not better acquainted with its
teachings: In my youth we read it in our
day schools, and recited it in Sunday School
It was a book I was so familiar with I could
defend its principles when talking with our
minister who told me saying, “If there be
prophecies they will fail, and tongues shall
cease." Here he stopped, and I finished the
sentence for him saying “and knowledge
shall vanish away. For now we see in
part and hear in part, but when that which
is perfect is come that which is in part will
be done away.” Then he said “who ever
shall add to the prophecy of this book to
Him shall be added the plagues that are
written in this book.” “Yes” I replied,
“that was St. John’s vision. We should
not add or diminish to that which he saw in
his vision. Yet the angel told him saying
‘he should again prophecy before nations,
kings and people.’ Here prophecy comes
again and is called the testimony of Jesus.”
	I always have a feeling of regret that the
Rev Mr. Proll of Utica N. Y. would not
investigate this Gospel: He said “I must
excuse him as he had to visit a sick person,”
and he said I was young and would yet see
the error of my ways and come back. This
was over fifty years ago, but I am more firm
now than then, for that which was my faith
then afterward became a knowledge.
	I must say that I am thankful that the
testament was a school book in my youth,
for through it I became acquainted with
Jesus and his Apostles, and the opposition
they met while they sojourned here. How
often did I wish I could see them and hear
them talk, and now I often wish I could
see the beloved disciple John who is to tar-
ry in this world until Jesus comes again, two
of our people and perhaps more have seen
him and talked to him. It is our duty to
give strict heed to the Gospel that Jesus
our Lord and master gave to his Apostles.
Our prophet Joseph said if we do not, this
will not be a land of Zion unto you. This
we can realize from time to time. And I
would ask is there not danger that we be-
come weary in well doing and take a rest
until our lamps have gone out. Let us
rather take the advice of St. Paul who said
you must be diligent in business and fer-
vent in spirit serving the Lord, then we
will be worthy to be called Latter-day
Saints, will we not?
M. E. K.
Nov. 24, 1895.


