ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.

	The sudden and unexpected death of
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick, on the 25th of
November last, resulting from a surgical
operation, was a great shock to those who
knew and loved her. The equal suffrage
cause has lost in Mrs. Dietrick one of its
ablest workers. Educated, cultivated and
refined. Mrs Dietrick was well calculated
to support logically and from the highest
standpoint the principle of equality of sex
in which she so firmly believed and which
she advocated with such courage in the face
of the strongest opposition, yet without
any display of antagonism or personal feel-
ing. William Loyd Garrison in the Wo-
man's Journal of Boston says, “She was
ever ready to break a lance against privilege,
and the frequent provocation to do battle for
her sex prompted her to exceed her strength
and was the proximate cause of her illness.”
	“During the referendum agitation her
newspaper correspondence was excessive.
At the same time she prepared and delivered
a course of lectures, and wrote a yet un-
published book.”
	Contrary to the general idea of women
doing public service, Mrs. Dietrick was a
loyal and devoted wife, and a tender and
sympathetic mother. She leaves a husband
and daughters, to mourn her, to them, ir-
reparable loss; but they will have the
cordial sympathy of all who knew Mrs.
Dietrick’s great worth to the world of
humanity.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a native of Kentucky,
but moved to the North, when she became
deeply interested in active work for women,
and in Boston and its vicinity she found a
congenial and helpful atmosphere. Mrs.
Josephine K. Henry of Kentucky in her
glowing tribute to Mrs. Dietrick says,
“Since she won the title of 'the Daniel
Webster of the suffrage cause’ we Ken-
tuckians, who only loaned her to Mas-
sachusetts, have taken special pride in the
magnificent service Mrs. Dietrick rendered
in the conflict for woman’s freedom,” she
also adds later in her article, “The graceful
symmetry of her charming personality left
not a single angle, while her natural gifts
and mental attainments rendered her at
once the grandest type of American wo-
manhood, and a stateswoman worthy of
presidential honors. With reverent love
we pay this poor tribute to this apostle of
liberty.”
	Several of the Utah delegations of ladies
when in the East have had the pleasure
of knowing this talented and genial lady,
whose wit and brilliancy, as well as her
warm and tender heart and perfect man-
ners, attracted them to her, and they will
have many remembrances of her cordial

[Column 2]
greetings and kind expressions of interest
in Utah affairs.
	Only last winter when in Washington at-
tending the National Council of Women,
the writer recalls with what enthusiasm
she alluded to the near approach of state-
hood for Utah, and inquired as to the
prospects for equal suffrage in the Constitu-
tion. When answered that it was fully ex-
pected, as both political parties had declared
for it in their platform, she spoke enthusias-
tically of visiting here in the near future,
in fact she expected to come with Miss
Anthony and Miss Shaw in May when the
National Suffrage Conference was held in
this city.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a charming woman
and a delightful speaker, she had a good
voice, a fine presence and her language was
simply perfect.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton says, “Those
who knew Ellen Battelle Dietrick best, who
had listened to her scholarly lectures, and
read her logical writings in journals and
magazines of the day, can appreciate her
loss to the public; but none of us can es-
timate the loss of such a presence to her
family and friends.
	We counted Mrs. Dietrick among our
personal friends, we have had a number of
letters from her, and she interested herself
sufficiently in our work to become a sub-
scriber for our little paper, and mentioned
it favorably and most kindly. E. B. W.


