A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	THE sudden news of the demise of Sister
Emma Bull, wife of Elder Joseph Bull of
this city, came like an electric shock to those
who had not heard of her serious illness,
and who had seen her only a few days
before in seemingly usual health. These
warnings should remind us all of the un-
certainty of life, the certainty of death,
and that we should be at all times pre-
pared for the change that comes to all
living.
	There is to us all something solemn, even
sacred in the final departure from this
world of one with whom we have been
associated in our life labors here; and yet
to a Latter-day Saint it really cannot be
so dreadful as to those who have not the
same hopes and promises of a life to come,
that we have who have accepted the Ev-
erlasting Gospel. In many instances when
a saintly man or woman passes away, the
feeling of death is almost obliterated and
a peace so sweet that it is akin to joy
rests upon the habitation of the departed.
	When one is taken from our midst
whose days have been filled with useful-
ness, and whose life has been an example of
faith, patience and courage, like that of Sis-
ter Bull, those friends who remain should
rejoice that all is so well, that one more true
and faithful saint has fought the good fight
and kept the faith, and entered into the rest,
prepared for those who overcome.
	Sister Bull's days were replete with good
works; she will be missed in many places,
in the Salt Lake Temple where she had
officiated ever since it was opened in May,
1893; in the Relief Society of the Seven-
teenth Ward of which she had been a
member for many years, and for ten years
its faithful secretary, and in many public
duties, among the sick and distressed, and
as a missionary to the sisters of the Relief
Society in other localities whenever called
upon to go. There can be no doubt but
she had finished her work here upon earth.
	To her own family she was all that a
wife and mother could be, industrious, en-
ergetic, persevering, amiable, tender and
affectionate. She possessed many noble
traits of character that shine most brightly
in the home. Sister Bull was a woman of
fine presence, and exceptional good taste in
dress, and in the adornments of home; fond
of flowers, artistic in decorating, and in
fine and ornamental needle work, especially
so, her tendencies were all of a refined
nature, and she was tenderly appreciated by
her own family and by many of the Latter-
day Saints, whose acquaintance she had
made here in Utah. She has only left us
for a short time, ere long we shall all follow


whither she has gone, and if we are faithful
unto the end, we shall meet her again
where there is no more pain or sickness or
sorrow, or trials, but where all is joy and
peace forevermore.


