CHRISTMAS.

	WAS, or was not the 25th of Dec. the
birthday of Christ? This day could hardly be
Christ’s Birthday as it was the height of the
rainy season in Judea, and shepherds could
hardly be watching their flocks by night in
the plains, some say his birthday is in April,
but it is not known when it is. Yet the 25th,
of December will always be observed as
his birthday.
	The institution of Christmas festival is
attributed to the spurious Decretals to
Telesphorus (136—61 A. D.) The first
traces that can be found of celebrating
Christmas was about the time of the
emperor Commodus (180—92 A. D.) In
the reign of Diocletian,while the ruler was
keeping court at Nicomedia, he learned that
a great many Christians were assembled in
the city to celebrate the birthday of Jesus.
This enraged the ruler, who was not a
Christian, he sent men to close the church
doors and set fire to the building, thus all
the worshippers perished in the flames.
	At this time there was no set day for
observing the nativity of the Savior, some
held it in the month of May and April,
while others held it in January
	In the Roman Catholic Church, three
masses are preformed on Christmas, one at
midnight, one at day break, and one in the
morning.
	The day is celebrated also by the Anglo
Catholic Church—special psalms are sung,
a special preface is made in the communion
service, and the Athanasians creed is said
or sung. The Lutheran church, on the


Continent, also observe Christmas, but the
Presbyterian churches in Scotland, and the
whole of the English dissenters, reject it,
in its religious aspect, as a “human inven-
tion.”
	Within the last hundred years, the festiv-
ities once appropriated to Christmas have
much fallen off. These at one time lasted
with more or less brilliancy till Candlemas,
and with great spirit till the twelfth day;
but now a service in the morning at the
different churches, and a meeting in the
evening composed. when possible, of the
various branches and members of the fam-
ily, is all that distinguishes the day above
others.
	In England, dissenters, as well as church-
men. keep it as a social holiday, on which
there is a complete cessation from all busi-
ness. E. S.


