ST. CHARLES, IDAHO,
DEC. 24th, 1895.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE Relief Society conference of Bear
Lake Stake was held in Paris, Second
Ward, Sunday Nov. 24th, 1895.
	President Julia S. Lindsay presiding.
At 10 a. m. after the usual devotional ex-
ercises. Roll called and minutes read.
President Julia Lindsay addressed the
saints a short time, testifying to the bless-
ings that attend those sisters who faithfully
perform their public duties.
	The verbal reports were given, showing
the Relief Society throughout the stake to
be in a prosperous condition. Counselor
L. M. Hart was the next speaker. She ex-
horted the sisters to each one obtain a tes-
timony of the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged. Warned all against fault-
finding which she feared growing among
us.
	President William Budge spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters. Advised the presi-
dents to adopt some plan to encourage a
better attendance at the Relief Society


meetings. We should live so that we will
not lose God’s spirit for no person is happy
without it.”
	Prayed for the blessings of God to be
with the saints. Hymn “Lord dismiss us.”
Closing prayer by Bishop Price.
	At 2 p. m. meeting opened by Counselor
Elizabeth Collings. Singing, “My God
the spring of all my joys.” Prayer by
President William L. Rich.
	After the second hymn the sacrament was
administered, while the bread and water
was being dispensed the choir sang, “Ye
children of our God.”
	President Lindsday, Counselor Collins
and Sister M. Bagley instructed the sisters
to be frugal, to make the best use of the
means they have. Testified to the bless-
ings received from God, and exhorted the
sisters to faithfulness that they may receive
the great reward that is in store for them.
Elder Emil Maeser admonished parents to
teach their children the principles of the
gospel and see that they mingle in good
society. “While we dwell upon the earth
is the time for us to work out our salvation
if we allow the time to pass unimproved it
will be lost forever. The minutes were
read and approved. Choir sang, after which
conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction by Elder J. N. Stucki.
