CELEBRATING STATEHOOD.

	As the time draws near for President
Cleveland to sign the Constitution for Utah
and issue the Proclamation for Statehood,
the manner in which the people are to
publicly celebrate the auspicious event be-
comes a popular and serious question.
That all parties will unite in the demonstra-
tion is a foregone conclusion. There could
be no other satisfactory manifestation of the
appreciation of such a grand and glorious
event. And one of the chief pleasures will
assuredly be the equality that it will bring
to all the citizens of the new state. No
longer can Wyoming and Colorado boast of
their superiority in this respect, though they
rank first and second, but Utah will bring
the third equality star to complete the trio.
Already some Suffrage Associations in other
states are planning to celebrate the placing
of the third star (for Utah) on the woman's
flag. We count it a good omen that we
are the third equal suffrage state, and also
that the star placed on the national flag for
Utah will be the forty-fifth star and the
coincidence that it is just forty-five years
from the date of the forming of the Ter-
ritory is decidedly favorable.
	Women will, of course, share equally in
the honors of the occasion as they are to
have equal part in all that pertains to the
interests and welfare of the new common-
wealth. Utah has every reason to be proud
of her daughters, as well as her sons, and
in all that makes the world beautiful and
delightful as a dwelling place for man, wo-
man has part and a very large part too, in
the work of beautifying and making it
desirable. In the near future women will
have much to do in bringing about the
changes that will naturally result through
the transition from territorial vassalage to
the freedom of statehood.
	The Governor, Attorney General, the
Legislature, the Judges, all combined will
need women to help them adjust some of
the vexed questions that will arise, because
women are expecting to take part now in
all important matters, even if they were
not eligible beforehand for the positions
which they were certainly competent to
have filled. We do not, however, antici-
pate any friction in these matters, the men
will be generous and courteous and women
amiable and moderate in their demands for
recognition. But it is to be hoped they
will also be valiant and firm in maintaining
the right: and they must not expect their
wishes to be an icipated before being made
known. If they get equal political

[Column 2]
privilege for the asking they must be con-
tent. It cannot possibly be expected that
men will take into account this new ele-
ment without being reminded now and then
of its existence.
	As women have not had the privilege of
voting and being voted for in this campaign,
they have had perhaps a better opportunity
to watch the proceedings and take notes,
and if they have learned some wholesome
lessons by standing and waiting, they may
do better service when they are allowed
active participation in the honors and in the
emoluments. It would be very dreadful if
they were to be as greedy for office, and as
unscrupulous in exacting compensation
as some public servants have been of late.
There is no doubt women will be severely
criticised at first, they must make up their
minds to bear it with heroic fortitude for the
sake of the right. And it will take sublime
courage born of a righteous cause to stem
the tide because there are many opponents
still, even though the cause has triumphed
so far as to give a majority of votes in favor.
The sentiment of the country too is fast
changing and it will not belong until equal
suffrage will be the popular sentiment
throughout the union.
	But just now one must deal with these
grave questions as they appear to the masses,
and the people even have need of educating,
and the few will have to undertake the
work, for it is always the few who pave
the way for the great army who claim the
victory, and carry off the honors. Let us
hope that on the occasion of the celebration
of this inaugural the utmost good feeling
will exist in the hearts of all, and citizens
of both sexes and of all classes, combine
their best efforts with untiring earnestness
and devotion, to make the ceremonials im-
posing and impressive to the children,
young and old, of the new free state.

	It is expected that the President of the
United States will sign the Constitution ad-
mitting the new state of Utah into the
Union and issue the proclamation about the
first of January 1896—and that the in-
auguration will take place soon after,
probably on the 6th, of the same month.
It will be a day of days for the people of
the new state, and all political parties will
for the time being and for the future it is
hoped, lay aside partisanship and make it a
jubilee of peace and good will; a time never
to be forgotton, and an auspicious omen for
the welfare and prosperty of the new com-
mon wealth.
	It is anticipated that the inaugural
ceremonies will be observed in the Taber-
nacle, and that spacious building will give
thousands of citizens the opportunity of
witnessing the official inauguration.
	The military display and parade will be
an effective part of the program, the stars
and stripes floating to the breeze, the mar-
tial music, the beating of drums, the firing
of cannon on this great occasion will be a
distinguishing feature of the heralding of
freedom. A beacon fire on Ensign Peak
would add picturesqueness and significance
to the grandeur of the celebration, and could
not fail to make it a distinctive event, her-
alding to the world that in the tops of the
Rocky Mountains, above the once barren
desert, and in sight of the Dead Sea of
America, a State had grown up unique in
geographical topography as well as in his-
toric celebrity, the Queen of the West, in
its unlimited resources of wealth and its

[Column 3]
unbounded prospects for future develop-
ment and growth in all that will lend lustre
and glory to the Republic with which she
will that day be united, the forty-fifth State
represented thereafter by the forty-fifth star
upon the national flag, the emblem of free-
dom and of liberty to all nations.
	It reminds one of the saying of Isaiah the
prophet.
	"Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken;
neither shall thy land any more be termed
Desolate; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-
bah and thy land Beulah; for the Lord de-
lighteth in thee, and thy land shall be
married."


