VENTION OF THE N. A. W. S. A.
	ALL friends of justice and equal rights
are earnestly invited to assemble in the
Twenty-eighth Annual Convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, in the Church of our Father,
Washington, D. C., January 23 to 28,
1896.
	‘‘The present day is bristling with an
energy which has for its aim the elevation
of our race in mental and moral directions,
in every department, indeed, of human life.
	“Living under the law, helped or hin-
dered by its enactment, women are, by
every principle of natural justice, as well as
by the nature of our institutions, as fully
entitled as men to vote and to be eligible to
office.
	As the president of Harvard University
says: “The exercise of suffrage stimulates
all citizens to reflect on problems outside
the narrow circle of their private interests
and occupations. *   *   * The duties of
republican citizenship, rightly discharged,
constitute in themselves a prolonged educa-
tion.  *  *  *  The bulwarks of the com-
mon wealth will prove all the stronger and
more lasting, because women, as well, as
men, can work on them and help to trans-

[Column 2] 
mit them, ever broader and firmer, from
generation to generation.”
	We rejoice in the immense gains made
in this and other countries since our last
Convention; Utah completing a trinity of
true republics at the summit of the Rockies;
South Australia fully enfranchising the
woman of its vast territory.
	We hail with joy the magnificent growth
of public sentiment resulting in the sub-
mission of a Woman Suffrage Amendment
to the Constitutions of New York, Oregon,
Idaho, Nevada and California, by their re-
spective State Legislatures; the twenty-six
votes for women’s full enfranchisement in
the recent Constitutional Convention of
South Carolina; the result of the vote on
the sham Referendum in Massachusetts,
showing that one out of every three men,
and nineteen out of of every twenty women
of that conservative commonwealth, who
expressed at the ballot box their opinions
on our question, were in favor of Equal
Suffrage—a startling revelation to the Re-
monstrants throughout the entire nation.
	We point with pride to the splendid re-
suits of the work of our Association in
organizing State Societies in Idaho, Mon-
tana, North Dakota, Nevada, Arizona,
Oklahoma, New Mexico, West Virginia
and Delaware, so that when we assemble
in Washington at our Annual Convention,
for the first time in our history the Associa-
tion will be composed of organizations in
every state and territory except Alaska,
linked together in one great national body.
	This call is addressed to all those who de-
sire the physical, intellectual and moral im-
provement of mankind.
	If our Convention shall promote, in any
degree, freedom of thought and action
among women; if it shall incite them to
higher aspirations; if it shall advance by a
few steps just legislation and a wise public
sentiment, if it shall hasten the recognition
of the justice of woman’s claim to equal po-
litical rights with men, it will not have
been in vain.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor, Sec. 
	Headquarters: 1341 Arch Street Phila-
delphia, Pa.


