[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: A Rose McCullough]
[A Rose Without a Thorn Irene McCullough]
kjL  Lriose    vvtthout  a  cJh ora 
Irene  McCullough 
MOLLIE  heard  the  door  slam  Mollie  could  not  hold  back  her 
as  Jim  left  the  house.  What's  pent-up  emotions  any  longer.     She 
the  use,  she  thought,  he's  all  dropped  into  the  nearest  chair  and 
wound  up  again,  and  when  he  is  burst  into  tears.    Aunt  Rachael  did 
that  way  everything  I  do  is  wrong  not  say  a  word  —  just  let  her  sob 
as  far  as  he  is  concerned.     She  was  it  out. 
too  angry  to  cry.     She  felt  all  tied  "Oh,  Aunt  Rachael,  I'm  sorry;  I'm 
up  inside.  really  ashamed  to  act  this  way/' 
If    only    she    could    discuss    her  'That's  all  right,  dear,  that's  all 
problem    with    someone,    it    might  right.     It's  just  nature's  way  of  eas- 
help.     It  would  be  useless  to  talk  ing  the  pressure  when  you  are  over- 
to  her  mother.    She  invariably  took  taxed.    Now,  what's  troubling  you?" 
Mollie's  part  and  Jim  did  not  stand  'It's  Jim  —  he  is  so  cross  and  ir- 
a  chance.     Aunt  Margaret  was  just  ritable  lately  that  I  can  hardly  stand 
as  bad.     There  was   Millie,  across  it.     No  matter  how  hard  I  try,  I 
the   street,   but   she   had   so    many  don't  seem  to  please  him.     Maybe 
cares  of  her  own,  it  would  be  un-  I  never  was  meant  for  him;  maybe 
fair  to  burden  her  with  any  more,  he  is  tired  of  me;  maybe  I  should 
Besides,  she  did  not  want  her  af-  leave  him;  maybe  .  .  .  ." 
fairs  discussed  around  the  neighbor-  "Maybe,"  interrupted  Aunt  Rach- 
hood.  ael,    "he   is   working   too   hard.      I 
Suddenly   she    thought   of   Aunt  heard  he  got  the  contract  to  put  in 
Rachael.    Aunt  Rachael  never  gos-  the   new   road   down    in   Fairview. 
siped.     She  was   over  eighty  years  They    say   that    is   a   pretty    tough 
old,  and  the  town  had  practically  job." 
grown  up  around  her.    She  had  had  'Tie    has    been    working    hard, 
many  ups  and  downs  in  her  life—  Aunt   Rachael.     It's  nearly  impos- 
mostly  downs  —  and  yet  she  had  sible  to  get  dependable  help  nowa- 
come  through  smiling.     Surely  she  days,  and  every  time  he  leaves  the 
could  advise  her.  job,    something    goes    wrong.      He 
Mollie  hurriedly  cleaned  up  the  never  gets  home  until  late  and  has 
house  and  started  out  to  see  Aunt  to  leave  early  in  the  morning." 
Rachael.  It  was  just  a  short  dis-  "Ruth  came  in  to  see  me  yester-
