[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The East German Mission Preston R. Nibley]

'Then he reached up and picked the prettiest pink rosebuds and, carefully holding them in his little hand, he walked determinedly up to Mrs. LaRue's front door and rang the bell. Peggy turned away from the window, squeezing back the tears. She couldn't bear it if Mrs. LaRue refused the roses or sent him away without a word or even a smile. But a few minutes later she heard the rhythmic grind of his roller skates as he whizzed around the veranda, and it was music in her heart. She must think of some way to show Mrs. LaRue how grateful she was. HE summer days sped by. Juddy skated in the mornings and played in his own back yard in the afternoon with the neighbor children. Peggy waited patiently for him to talk about Mrs. LaRue and how she liked the flowers he took her each morning, but he didn't mention her. He seemed to have a precious secret that he didn't share with anyone. I She and Bill decided to respect his silence, but Wednesday when they were having sandwiches and milk together at noon, she asked, as though the thought had just occurred to her: "Shall we invite Mrs. 518 LaRue to your birthday party Friday?" Juddy took a bite and chewed it a long time. Thoughtfully. "Let me ask her, Mama," he said at last. "She talkeetoome now. Every morning. But she might be busy that day," he added with a deep frown. The next night Peggy was surprised to hear him crying in his bedroom. Bill had gone in to say goodnight and hear his prayers and she had heard them talking in low tones and then Juddy began to cry. After awhile Bill came out with his brows puzzled together and his mouth pulled down into that funny way when something disturbed him. "Beats me!" he sighed, lounging in the chair beside her. "I can't understand my own son. 'There's something on his mind, Peg. But he won't tell me. Do you know what it is?" Peggy shook her head. "No, I don't, Bill. Id tell you if I did. He's been so happy the past weeks skating on the veranda." "Yeah. He loves that. But there's something else. When I listened to his prayers — well — guess what he said? He told the Lord he didn't need any toys or new clothes for his birthday. Then he said that the Lord already knew what he really needed because he'd asked for it all summer." Peggy's eyes met Bill's. "What could he want that's so important?" she questioned. "What does he need that we can't give him?" Bill unwound his long legs and stood up. "Beats me!" he repeated. "Ill bring home something for his party RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 tomorrow. Say! Do you think he might want a pet of some kind? A puppy or a kitten or even a snake?" Peggy shook her head, smiling. "No. He said it was something we couldn't get for him." Y three o'clock the next afternoon the garden was crowded with children who had come to Juddy's party. Peggy thought she had _ never heard such a rowdy group. She glanced apprehensively at Mrs. LaRue's windows, hoping the noise wouldn't bother her too much. "We'll cut the cake early and serve the ice cream," she told Alice who had come to help her. "That will quiet them." Alice smiled back in her knowing way. "For awhile," she said. Can't stop a whirlwind, Peg." "No," Peggy agreed as she watched the tumbling boys showing off to the little girls who squealed with delight. "But we can stuff them so full they can't squeal." "What time is Bill coming?" Alice asked. "Any time now," she answered. "I hope he's here when Juddy opens his presents — oh, here he is now. Hi, there, Mr. Rockwood. You're just in time for the main event. Help us get them toned down so we can serve." Bill tossed his hat on a chair and took a whistle from his pocket. His eyes sparked up. "Dave Grant at the office gave me this to use this afternoon. Said he always uses one at his children's parties." He gave a long shrill whistle, then "You THE GIFT OF LOVE two short ones, and the children turned to listen. "All of you sit down on the lawn," Peggy called. "Because we don't have enough chairs." Her voice trailed off and she stood there silent with astonishment. Mrs. LaRue was walking down the graveled path. She looked lovely in a white linen dress with a tiny bunch of flowers pinned at her waist. Her dark eyes had a bright new glow, and her lips curved gently as she smiled at them all.

She doesn't have a sorry face any more, Peggy thought. "Come in," Peggy finally spoke, hurrying to Mrs. LaRue, catching her hands in her own. "Juddy will be so pleased." Peggy looked around the garden for him, but he was already leaping toward Mrs. LaRue. "Here, Daddy, come quick!" he called. "Here's a surprise for us on my birthday." The children sat very still, looking at Mrs. LaRue as Juddy took her hand and pulled her gently inside the garden. "I hope you won't mind," she smiled at Peggy and Bill. "You see — Juddy told me what he wanted most for his birthday. So I told him if I decided to come I would make his wish come true." She bit her lip and drew a deep breath. Peggy felt her own heart beating up in her throat. Mrs. LaRue's voice was low and sweet like a lullaby. "Juddy has been praying for a grandmother," she said. "So I have come to tell him that I will be his grandmother." The garden was suddenly hushed in a kind of quiet glory. Peggy 519 heard the distant whistle of the four o'clock train in the valley below. Bill cleared his throat, and she heard him say in a husky voice: "That's mighty nice of you, Mrs. LaRue. We surely do appreciate it and everything else you've done for Juddy." "We surely do,' Peggy managed. "We'll always love you for it." Juddy beamed up at Mrs. LaRue. "See?" he said. "I told you they would. I told you they needed me to have a grandmother like Warren and all the others have. Boy! Am I lucky!" Mrs. LaRue touched his head. "[''m lucky, too, Juddy,' she murmured. "I have a nice warm feeling that I haven't had for many years. Not since." Her eyes met theirs with a brave steadiness. "Not since I lost my own little son in an accident on the highway. I couldn't bear to look at children after that. It hurt so. But Juddy made me notice him. He wouldn't give up." Peggy bent her head. She was so ashamed because she had misjudged Mrs. LaRue. 'That's what happens, she thought, her throat aching, when you merely look at the outside of people and don't know what is in their hearts. But Juddy had seen into her heart and loved her. "Now look," Bill was suggesting, in his deep, capable voice, "Juddy, it's your birthday so you can cut your cake." "Not me," he shouted, reaching for Mrs. LaRue. "I want everyone to see my grandmother cut my cake. Boy, does she cut the big pieces! You'll see, Daddy. She knows what kids like!"