[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Gregory]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the East German Mission Mary Ethel E. Gregory]
"V/fESSAGES  and  pictures  of  the  wives  of  two  of  the  General  Authorities  are  not  pre- 
*•  *■    sented  in  this  special  feature. 
Luacine  Savage  Clark,  wife  of  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  died  August  2,  1944. 
Relief  Society  was  one  of  Sister  Clark's  major  interests  from  the  time  she  was  eighteen. 
She  used  her  many  fine  leadership  abilities  and  other  talents  freely  in  Relief  Society 
service.  She  is  remembered  as  the  author  of  an  operetta,  of  poems,  and  delightful  stories: 
for  children. 
Edith  Grant  Young,  wife  of  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  passed  away  August  20,  1947.  Sister  Young,  a  daughter  of  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  was  well  known  for  her  beautiful  voice  and  musical  abilities  which  she 
was  always  willing  to  use  for  the  service  and  enjoyment  of  others.  She  was  a  loyal 
supporter  of  the  women's  work  of  the  Church. 
Page  501

502 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1956 
\17HILE  in  the  Far  East  the  summer  of  1955,  I 
was  astonished  to  discover  the  great  activity 
of  our  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society.  I  attended 
their  meetings  and  was  greatly  pleased  with  their 
faithfulness  and  joy  received  through  their  labors 
and  studies,  which  at  times  were  under  adverse 
circumstances.  I  bring  greetings  from  them  to 
the  sisters  who  are  more  favorably  situated  here 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion. 
—Jessie  Evans  Smith 
(Mrs.  Joseph  Fielding  Smith) 
HTHE  true  spirit  of  Relief  Society  touches  the 
hearts  of  women,  making  them  sisters  in  very 
deed.  Possessed  of  this  spirit,  they  rise  above  the 
barriers  of  nationality  and  race,  social  and  eco- 
nomic position,  forgetting  self  in  the  service  of 
others,  which  is  the  service  of  God;  indeed 
"Charity  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ." 
-Fern  T.  Lee  (Mrs.  Harold  B.  Lee) 
r^OR  my  membership  in  the  Relief  Society  or- 
ganization, I  am  deeply  grateful.  The  friend- 
ship with  choice  sisters,  the  opportunity  for  in- 
tellectual and  spiritual  growth  through  the  les-
