[Vol43 | August 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
WIVES  OF  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 
505 
OELIEF  Society  exerts  a  wonderful  influence 
on  a  woman's  life.  The  hours  spent  in  listen- 
ing to  the  beautiful  lessons  and  snaring  in  the 
various  activities,  are  some  of  my  happiest  mem- 
ories. 
-Jeanne  N.  Smith  (Mrs.  Eldred  G.  Smith) 
TTUTTHIN  the  pages  of  the  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine are  many  treasures  of  the  arts,  which 
contribute   much    to   the   cultural   value   of   our 
lives. 
When  I  received  the  February  issue  of  1956,  I 
turned  over  the  page,  and  there  was  a  beautiful, 
breath-taking,  winter  scene  of  Mount  Olympus  of 
the  Wasatch  Range. 
The  artistic  beauty  of  it  startled  me,  and  I  ex- 
claimed, "Oh!  how  lovely!" 
This  was  one  of  the  choice  moments  of  uplift 
for  me. 
—Fawn  B.  McKay  (Mrs.  Thomas  E.  McKay) 
QREETINGS  to  the  Relief  Society  Workers: 
May  we  ever  keep  in  mind  the  great  re- 
sponsibility placed  upon  the  women  of  the 
Church  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  he 
organized  the  Relief  Society  by  carrying  forward 
the  purposes  for  which  this  organization  came  in- 
to existence.  It  will  always  be  a  blessing  and  op- 
portunity to  those  who  engage  in  it. 
— Leona  Ballantyne  Sonne  (Mrs.  Alma  Sonne) 
FT  is  commendable  to  see  so  many  mothers  set 
good  examples  before  their  children  in  regard 
to  the  importance  and  sacredness  of  the  temples 
and  temple  ordinances.     We  are  grateful  to  the 
Relief  Society  sisters,  including  the  General  Presi- 
dency and  the  wives  of  the  General  Authorities, 
for  their  participation  and  interest  in  temple  work. 
— Lewella  Rees  Christiansen 
(Mrs.  EIRay  L.  Christiansen)

506 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1956 
\  S  the  very  young  wife  of  a  very  young  bishop  in 
a  very  humble  ward,  I  discovered  the  beauty 
of  Relief  Society.  Through  the  years  the  Relief 
Society  has  brought  sweet  refinement  to  countless 
women  by  varied  lessons,  and  untold  comfort  and 
help  to  the  sorrowing  and  needy.  What  a  fabu- 
lous organization! 
— LaRue  C.  Longden  (Mrs.  John  Longden) 
Relief  Society 
Its  motto— "Charity  Never  Faileth." 
Its  purpose— Service. 
Its  endowment— Spirituality. 
It  trains  our  hearts,  hands,  and  minds. 
Hail  to  the  greatest  Sisterhood  on  earth! 
— Zina  Y.  C.  Brown  (Mrs.  Hugh  B.  Brown) 
\\7E  cannot  estimate  the  great  good  we  may 
each  exert,  if  we  willingly  give  our  time  and 
talents  to  furthering  Relief  Society.  Each  may 
find  in  this  great  program  of  spiritual,  mental,  and 
social  development  a  niche  in  which  to  place  her 
tiny  candle,  that  its  rays  may  mingle  with  those 
of  countless  sisters  throughout  the  world,  to  bring 
a  shining  light  of  love  and  comfort  and  hope  to 
all  who  see. 
—Doris  Mary  Thornley  Sill 
(Mrs.  Sterling  W.  Sill) 
T  am  indebted  to  Sister  Leslie  Kendall  and  also 
to  Charles  Lamb  for  some  words  which  apply, 
I  think,  to  the  Relief  Society  organization: 
Would  that  every  troubled  soul  in  these  times 
could  receive  into  their  hearts  its  sweet  message 
which  breathes  the  very  spirit  of  innocence,  purity, 
and  simplicity  of  heart;  pray  make  yourselves  acquaint- 
ed with  it. 
We  are  all  made  better  and  happier  by  con- 
templating the  ideals  of  the  Relief  Society  organ- 
ization. 
—Valeria  B.  Young  (Mrs.  Levi  Edgar  Young)

WIVES  OF  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 
507 
T  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  my 
mother  for  her  interest  in  Relief  Society  and 
her  instilling  in  me  a  love  for  the  great  benefits  of 
membership  in  the  organization. 
In  our  ward  the  older  women  have  been  bene- 
fited because  the  young  women  have  attended 
and  taken  part  in  the  lessons. 
— Vilate  R.  Ivins  (Mrs.  Antoine  R.  Ivins) 
■■■■..  ,      ■  .  . 
HPHE  Relief  Society  has  blessed  many  women. 
It  has  given  them  training  in  intellectual,  so- 
cial, and  moral  fields,  and  they  have  had  the  bene- 
fit of  learning  and  doing,  simultaneously. 
Its  great  scope  and  power  have  made  us  realize 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  and  Seer 
when  he  organized  Relief  Society  at  Nauvoo,  in 
1842. 
—Ida  M.  Kirkham  (Mrs.  Oscar  A.  Kirkham) 
R EGARDLESS  of  your  numbers  or  your  loca- 
tion in  the  Church,  you  manifest  the  same 
faith,  service,  and  devotion.  Beauty  and  culture 
emanate  through  your  group  activities;  blessings 
you  shower  through  your  visits  to  the  sick  and 
the  homebound;  mental  and  spiritual  growth  you 
develop  through  the  faithful  study  of  the  lessons; 
and  charity  you  manifest  through  your  accom- 
plishments of  welfare  assignments. 
—Gladys  P.  Young  (Mrs.  S.  Dilworth  Young) 
TOURING  the  past  few  years  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  work  in  the  literary  department. 
I  feel  that  those  sisters  who  study  the  thoughts 
of  the  world's  foremost  writers  are  able  to  take 
increased  cultural  and  spiritual  benefits  into  their 
homes.  Much  inspiration  is  derived  from  all 
phases  of  the  Relief  Society  program. 
—Feme  G.  Hunter  (Mrs.  Milton  R.  Hunter)