BELLE HARRIS.

	I have great pleasure in answering the oft re-
peated question: "Who is Belle Harris?" Belle
Harris is a daughter of Charles Harris, son of
the late Emer Harris, brother to Martin Harris,
one of the three witnesses to the Book of Mor-
mon. Her parents are early and highly res-
pected, citizens of Utah. The character of the
family is beyond suspicion for virtue and integ-
rity, and devoted to their religion as Latter-day
Saints. I believe they were all born in the
Church. Belle is and always was a firm believer in
the testimony of her great Uncle Martin Harris,
and is devoted to all the doctrines of the Church
of which she has always been a highly esteemed
and respected member. She is intelligent and
industrious.
	The present unhallowed persecution is the
only intimation I ever heard of her reputation
being questioned. As to her marriage relations
I need not inquire, nor would it reflect any credit
to me as a lawyer to entertain the remotest
doubt as to whether her answer to the question
as to whether she was married or single was a
privileged one. It matters not whether she is
viewed as a plural wife, prostitute, single wife,
or no wife. I have already stated that her
character is beyond reproach and that point must
not be forgotten.
	Belle Harris stands upon a higher plane, and
in keeping with her higher nature, and as any
virtuous lady should do, says to the jury and the
Court: "Gentlemen, you have no legal right to
ask this question and I decline to answer it."
The question is an insult and a vile insinuation
of departed virtue; and yet were she a public
prostitute no such question, either single or
conglomerated as hers was would ever be asked.
Who ever knew in a single court of free Amer-
ica, such a question to be put to a frmale who
was dragged into court without her consent?
Echo answers, "who?" The court records may
be searched in vain, except in some of the fanat-
ical courts of Utah.
	I admit that in case an unmarried woman has
illegitimate issue and claims support from her
seducer, such a question would be legally proper
and would be asked by HER attorney, as a neces-
sary foundation to the establishment of the
plantiff's claim, but who ever knew of a Court
dragging such a woman before him and com-
pelling her to convict even her paramour. Surely
consistency is a jewel.
	The object of this communication is not to
question the sincerity of Judge Twiss. I am


not yet converted to the belief that he is design-
edly wrong, notwithstanding our wide legal dif-
ference on this point, but must set this action
down as one of those errors he so sincerely and
often has stated he is liable to.
	DANIEL TYLER.
May 19th, 1883.


