FEED MY LAMBS.

	As a testimony of the love of Peter for Jesus
He required him to feed His lambs, to feed
them with the bread of life, to lead them in
pleasant places and to fountains of living
waters, whose springs should never fail. It is
pleasant to read the life of Jesus, our Great
Shepherd, to partake of the sweet spirit which
accompanies it; brief as is the record, we have
to picture in our minds the varied scenes
through which he passed from his manger
cradle to his ascension to the Father, and
sometimes they feel so real and so near that we
seem to be passing through them, and can
scarcely believe that almost two thousand
years have passed away since those scenes
were enacted that tell of the birth, the death,
the resurrection, and that also tell of the sec-
ond coming of the Savior of our earth, its
King and Law-giver. And those who loved
and followed him through those brief years of
his earthly sojourn, how near they seem to us
at times. We can see the look of pain upon
Peter's face when Jesus, for the third time,
asked him, "Lovest thou me?" and hear the
almost impatient or grieved answer, "Yea,
Lord, thou knowest that I love thee," and hear
His mild but firm command, "Feed my
lambs." And who has not pictured to them-
selves most vividly the scene of Christ's ser-
mon on the Mount, that sermon that contains
lessons that in all the years allotted to man on
earth is still unlearned, not comprehended, not
practised by His children; and when we see
how far short we come of living that which
was taught on the Mount,—how far we wander
from the paths there marked out, well may the
heart grow faint, and feel that our efforts are
vain if that high standard must be attained
ere we can gain His presence. But He has
walked the stony paths of life, has felt the
weakness and pains of mortality, and He is
merciful.
	Christ is our great shepherd, but He has
many under him, for He has many lambs to
feed, and many to gather into the fold and to
shield from the wolves that are thirsting for
their blood; there is work for all who have
taken the name of Christ, there are hungry
and thirsty souls to care for, to feed with the
food that perisheth and with the bread of
eternal life; there are sore and bleeding hearts
to be comforted, and weak and weary ones to
be helped along in the journey of life; the
command to Peter has been given again to the
servants of God to-day: "Feed my lambs."
	HOPE.


[Column 1]

