BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The noblest study of intelligent beings, is
the study of that complex and most wonderful
nature of which each human being is a unit;
yes, the human is a grand metaphysical nature
both in its spiritual and corporeal structure; it
is so intricate, so altogether marvelous, that we
need not go one step farther to find our Crea-
tor, our God. He has mingled His essence so
palpably in this wonderful construction that
the human and the divine cannot be separated;
the climax of this grand machine is a marvel
and a mystery, even when the anatomist lays it
bare before the eye and before the understand-
ing; all of which not even a Galen has fully
penetrated or understood; the dissecting knife
exhibits wonders—but death has then taken
possession, and has shut down the grand wheel
of life—the mainspring of earthly existence,
and the machinery stands still; its complex
and sublime working is no longer in action;
but let us imagine this beautiful, mechanical
body transparent in life! that we could watch
its matchless movements and its eternal adap-
tation for all its purposes. The life, in the
form of rich, pure blood, rushing all so noise-
lessly and methodically that the being itself is
not aware of it, rushing through that grand
citadel, the heart, (I have heard six hundred
times in one hour) and then dispersing and fill-
ing every artery and vein with renovated life
and vigor; the next grand coadjutor, the brain,
so mysterious in its affinity to the other grand
organs, surely it must contain the throne-room
where reason, judgment, thought and memory
hold their daily and hourly levee, aye, minute
by minute, and from which emanate the won-
drous tale of life, and all its grand and myste-
rious operations! And then the spirit that has
so imprest its image upon the body that has
been so wonderfully prepared for it, and
which alone sets the grand machine in motion;
that mighty spirit! how little we actually
know about it, even when it has been our co-
mate for three score years and ten, and often
more. With regard to the corporeal, scienee
opens a door, many doors and shews us much—
but after the closest research—reason tells us
we know but little, even of ourselves. How
absurd is scepticism in the face of all this ig-
norance, where the effects alone tell us there is
a mighty, but a mysterious cause, and only by
analogy can we reason out a portion of the
hidden truth. The great Creator has drawn a
line beyond which merely human intellect can
not pass. Electricity, that marvelous agent
about which so much has been discovered and

[Column 2]
proven, what we see of its effects to-day we
may cocjecture, what it will be as a powerful
agent to man even fifty years hence; yet with
all the knowledge concerning it to-day, what
this powerful and efficient agent really is the
keenest mind has not been able to discover,
though it is delightful to study and conjecture
upon it, and we know that it is a power from
the laboratory of Heaven, and ought to teach
reverence and humility even in the using of it;
the human machine is powerfully impregnated
with it—in fact all the elements are incorpora-
ted more or less in this God-like organism,
which will take eternity to fully develop in
all its compartments, yet even in this twilight
state of being, the watchful can catch glimpses
that startle and electrify the meditative; and
they realize the sublimity of the words of Holy
Writ, "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made!" I ever remember my brother's words,
and the accents in which they were uttered as
he left the Anatomical Schools in Cambridge,
he seemed absorbed in what he had just be-
held, and what had wonderfully opened and
excited his mind, "let the sceptic and the athe-
ist witness what I have just beheld, and if they
are not convinced of an Omnipotent Creator,
neither would they be persuaded though one
arose from the dead." With all these grand
mysteries and problems before our eyes, shall
we spend our lives in thoughtless frivolity, in
reckless apathy? In deathly ignorance, in
cold formality? Rather let us know ourselves
and the grandeur of our origin. Let those
who will and do glory in the patent of nobility
which they received from Westminster or St.
Paul's; we will glory that our patent was bes-
towed in the Chancery of Heaven, and en-
dorsed by the authority of the same; and let
us, as Latter-day Saints, ever bear in mind the
covenants which we have made in holy places,
and under which many of the present genera-
tion were born; let us endeavor to be wise in
our day and generation; this will detract from
no legal enjoyment, but will enhance our
pleasures and give a pungency and a potency to
them that must be realized to be understood
or appreciated; there is a laughter that makes
the ear of the listener sad and tells the phase
of character louder than words; there is a
mirth from which the wise and the good recoil;
there are palaces of gorgeous beauty, in which
the pure and the wise could not live even a
day in happiness, the sweet, humble home ever
"swept and garnished" by sweet, pure, unso-
phistocated spirits, basking in the smile and
approbation of their Heavenly Father is where
the Spirit of God visits, and inspires, sustains
and blesses, and where the hand of God is ac-
knowledged, and even His rod is kissed, for its
wounds are better than the flatteries and fri-
volities of an ignorant, supinely smiling world.
May the Spirit of the Holy One be around
His people. May they be enabled to imbibe
this Holy Esseuce, that by it they may apply
and use the noble gift bestowed upon them.
	Salt Lake City, May 24th, 1883.


The Princess Louise's training has been en-
tirely practical. She is a finished housekeeper,
and served an apprenticeship at Osborne to
cook, confectioner, laundress of fine things,
seamstress and dressmaker. Every day for
years the Queen's table at Osborne was graced
by a dish made by one of Her Majesty's daugh-
ters.


