BOSTON.

	So popular is the Suffrage Festival and
Banquet which the New England Woman Suf-
frage Association shares with the Massachu-
setts Association on anniversary week, that the
tickets were all sold, long before the festal day
arrived. But the demand for tickets contin-
ued to such an extent that two additional
tables were set in the chapel adjoining the
Meionaon to accommodate the demand, and
still other tickets were sold for seats in the
gallery. The tables and the platform were
beautifully decorated with flowers. It was a
pleasant sight to see the long row of suffragists
having a pleasant social time at the tables so
well spread by the excellent caterer, Harvey
Blunt, and released, for a little while, from the
constant uphill road over which all reform has
to be carried.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe presided. Aronnd
her on the platform were invited guests, and
some of the oldest of the suffragists, Hon.
Thomas Russell being on her right, with James
Freeman Clarke, Mr. and Mrs. Livermore,
and Miss Freeman. On her left were Mrs.
Elizabeth B. Chace, Lucy Stone, Henry B.
Blackwell, Mrs. Clara Neyman, Mrs. Anna
Garlin and Rev. William Spencer. Mrs.
Howe always requires a song before meat, and
a suffrage "Song of Freedom" was sung, all
joining. After supper, Mrs. Howe made the
opening speech, and announced the toasts with
grace and wit, as she introduced the speakers.
	The first toast was "The Golden Rule in
Politics," responded to by Rev. James Free-
man Clarke, which was followed by "Fair
Play," Mrs. Julia Ward Howe; "Good Resolu-
tions," Hon. Thomas Russell; "Liberty and 
Love," a poem by Martha P. Lowe; "The
Woman's Hour has Struck," Mr. Charles H.
Codman; "The Age of Chivalry," Mrs. Clara
Neyman; "Woman as a Reserve Force," Mrs.
Mary A. Livermore; "Signs of the Times,"
Mrs. Lucy Stone; "Women in Universities,"
Miss Eva Channing; "The Commonwealth,"
Hon. Charles W. Slack; "Strong-Minded
Women," Anna Garlin Spencer; "Our Ene-
mies," Miss Mary F. Eastman; "The Sympa-
thy of Reforms," Rev. Frederic A. Hinckley;
"The Granite State," Mrs. Armenia S. White.
The speaking was interspersed with music,
Gaspard Maeder Jr., playing two fine violin
solos, accompanied by Mrs. Gaspard Maeder.
Mrs. Flora E. Barry with inimitable grace
sang "The Arrow and the Song," A Lullaby,
and "John Anderson, My Jo." The Festival
is indebted to Mrs. S. C. Vogl for procuring
music, which was an added grace, to Mrs. S.
E. Laselle for her accompaniments and to Mrs. S.
E. Laselle for her accompaniments and to Mr.
McPhail for the use of a fine upright piano.
But the feast of toasts and speeches was left in
part unsaid. The time was too short. Mrs.
C. M. Severance, Miss Frances H. Turner,
Rev. William H. Spencer, Dr. Mary J. Saf-
ford, and ever so many more keep their good
words for next time. The exercises came to a
close after a fine quotation from John G.
Whittier given by H. B. Blackwell, with
Anld Lang Syne sang in chorus. It was past
ten o'clock when the cars bore this pleasant
company to their homes.	L. S.


