SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL’S JOURNAL.
[line break]
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[line break]
	Father makes frequent mention of gather-
ings at the Mansion and other places, in which
we took part, also of entertainments given at
the Concert Hall, and of presiding there a
number of times, which has served to refresh
my memory. Several familiar items I found
written in a small pocket diary which had been
overlooked. The following he wrote: "Febru-
ary 1st, 1845.	*	*	At. ten o’clock in
the evening Elder B. Young and myself went
to see Joseph and Hyrum.” I remembered this
incident and that he brought home a small
scrap from each of their burial robes. Their
bodies had been kept hidden till this time upon
Joseph’s premises and closely guarded, as there
had been large sums of money offered for them
by different parties to speculate upon; but the
Saints were never so poor nor so destitute
of human feelings as to commit such an act
towards any one, much less men so beloved
and revered as were the Prophet Joseph and
his brother Hyrum.
	Father speaks of frequent visits paid to
their mother and their to widows, Emma and
Mary Smith. The 25th of April following, he
mentions "assembling at the Mansion in com-
pany with five of the Twelve, Sister Emma
and Dr. Bernhisal to see the giants, Frederic
W. Randall and his lady. He afterwards
took me with other members of his family to
see them. None others were present but Brig-
ham Young, which circumstance was impressed
upon my mind by his looking so diminutive as
they stood side by side with the giant. He
wore an immense gold watch and chain, also a
large pin and finger ring, the latter, which we
handled, was so large that it went easily over
three of the President’s largest fingers. He
was heavily built and had a deep and power-
ful voice. His wife was about the right hight
for him, but did not seem to enjoy going about
the world for a show as much as he did, being
in a delicate state of health, she expressed her
repugnance to this kind of life and a desire for
a more quiet one back in their native land
among the highlands.
	They reminded us so of the characters we
read of in the “Scottish chiefs" and other
novels of the olden times, when their brave
chieftians and ladies of high degree were all
large in stature. The Book of Mormon and
Bible also, tell us that there were “giants in
those days."
	On the “6th of February,” father wrote,
“Last night I dreamed I was at work on my
wheel, with others, in the pottery and putting
vessels in the kiln for burning. Several were
assisting—the work was great." He also men-
tions going with my mother to a potter shop,
and says, “I made a crock upon the wheel—
the first one for nine years.” Those acquainted
with him knew him to be a potter, this was his
favorite trade, and he frequently made use of
the parable as Jesus did. He first learned the
blacksmith trade, when but a boy in the State
of Vermont, which business he carried on in
the winter and the pottery during the warm
weather. Both were very profitable trades
and would have made him a wealthy man, but
instead he willingly gave his time and tal-
ents towards the great work of building up our
Father’s Kingdom.
	He gives the following account of their,
April Conference in 1845, which was held, after
the first day, in one of the valleys a little south
of the Temple, the weather being very windy
and dusty:
	"April 6th. The Saints convened at ten
o’clock at the stand, being fifteen years since
the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ

[second column]

of Latter-day Saints, and there are one-third
more people now than there ever were before
at any conference since the Church began.	*
I called the meeting to order and offered
prayer.	B. Young preached on the subject of
baptism for the dead.	*	*	*	We met
at two o’clock—two acres were covered as
thick as they could stand—four on a square
yard—reckoned to be twenty thousand Saints.
Meeting opened by O. Hyde; then the little
children were blessed. We came to a close at
jive in the afternoon. The wind blew hard
and very dusty."
	“Monday, 7th. Met at ten o’clock in a val-
ley among the hills. Spent the forenoon talk-
ing about the Temple and Nauvoo House. In
the afternoon the revelation on the Nauvoo
House and tithing was read by Elder O. Pratt,
then Elder B. Young spoke.” 	*	*	*
"April 8th.	*	*	I spoke one hour in
the morning—Elder B. Young filled up the
time.	The afternoon was occupied by B.
Young and O. Hyde. At five o’clock the con-
ference adjourned till next October. All went
off well.”
	On the evening of the 9th, he mentions be-
ing at the Concert Hall and enjoying the beau-
tiful singing and music, etc. At a meeting
held the next evening he speaks of G. J.
Adams and Samuel Branson being cut off
from the Church for bad conduct, also about
getting the Masonic Hall for a printing office.
“This lodge,” he says, “was organized on the
15th day of March, 1842, with forty members.
Joseph Smith was made a Mason on the same
evening, Abraham Jones was present and
acted as Master. The first night he (Joseph)
took the first and second degree, the next
night took the third degree.” The following I
copy from his largest journal:
	“Joseph and Hyrum Smith were Master
Masons, yet they were massacred through the
instrumentality of some of the leading men of
hat fraternity through the States.	*	*
Although bound under the strongest obliga-
tions to be true and faithful to each other in
every case and under every circumstance, the
commission of crime excepted.”
	There is no denying that there were some
mean and disreputable characters among us,
the same as are found in all other commnni-
ties, and those who (Judas like) sought to
wind themselves into the good graces of both
parties; and according to Jesus’ words the net
was to gather of all kinds; but those who have
not already met their just rewards, will in due
time, let him be “Mormon,” Gentile or Jew,
or whatever name they may be called by, each
one will be made to answer for his or her own
sins, whatever crime they may have committed
it will return four-fold upon their own heads.
	It seems it was the 12th of the following
month that my father and several of his breth-
ren found it necessary to conceal themselves to
escape the clutches of their enemies who came
there to serve their writs. Father, B. Young
and W. Richards went to the house of Bishop
Edward Hunter that day with the Church
History and hid, in the same upper room where
Joseph had previously been concealed. W.
Richards was then sick with the chills and
fever, and President Young’s health was also
quite poor. Father wrote the morning follow-
ing, "Had a good night’s rest, B. Young
dreamed of seeing a vessel blown on to dry
land—I dreamt of saying some persons from
being drowned.	*	*	At nine o’clock G.
A. Smith came to us.	*	*	 Read history
all day, taking turns. When it came night B.
Young and I went home.	Found my family
well, but lonesome.	Returned the same night
to onr lodging.”	14th he wrote, “Elder Rich-
ards better, but B. Young quite poorly; the
day wet and chilly.	*	*	*	Wrote a
line to my wife, who came and took dinner
with us, had a good visit.	*	*	"15th.

[third column]

Last night I dreamed I saw many serpents--
they jumped at me, but‘did not bite.” At four
o’clock in the morning Joseph Kingsbury took
him in his buggy to Aaron Farr’s.
	This place was a mile or two from the city,
on the edge of a thick wood, where he staid
that day. My mother went in the afternoon
with Sanih Kingsbury to see him. He wrote
that he went into the forest twice to pray the
second time accompanied by my mother. They
left in the edge of the evening—he to meet
with the Holy Order at W. Richards’—from
there he came home, then went back to Bishop
Hunter’s."
	On the; 19th, he says,	*	*	Vilate with
Sarah Ann Kingsbury took me in a buggy to
Brother Robert Pierce’s, where I found Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and George A. Smith.
We rested all day and felt refreshed—received
great kindness from sister Pierce and her two
daughters, Mary and Margerete; may the
Lord bless them with peace and plenty. After
dark went through the city disguised—saw
many of the Saints, but they knew me not;
went home where I found my wife Vilate, and
all well but lonesome—went back to my lodg-
ing at eleven—almost as light as day.”
	Next day he wrote that Willard Richards’
came there with the Church History. “About
ten o’clock in the morning (he says) my dear
Vilate came to see me with Sister Sarah Ann
Kingsbury.	*	*	*	They left	in one
hour, and my daughter came, and Sarah Ann
with her, and they took lunch with us at two
o’clock.”
	This visit at Brother Pierce’s I remember
very well. Several of the Apostles were pres-
ent that day, and we spent a very agreable
afternoon in conversation, while some were
engaged reading history, and we had some
good singing. Brother Taylor sang “The Up-
per Call,” composed by himself. We left at
dusk, after which father wrote in his journal:
Oh Lord, bless my dear wife and children, that
they may all be righteous from the oldest to
the youngest, and all live till they become old.”
	He came home and staid that night, but was
called up at three in the morning and went to
the trustee’s office, where he remained through
the day.
	“In the evening (he says) I rode down with
Bishop Whitney to administer to his wife and
two children, and Julia Durphy, who was work-
ing for them—they were very sick.”  A few
days after this my mother was taken sick with
chills and fever, and father could only come to
see her at night. It was three weeks before
they could meet with the Saints, and this
course they were compelled to take much of
the time, while they were builling and perlorm-
ing the work In the House of the Lord.
	Our persecuters and the murderers of the
Prophet and Patriarch supposed when they
were killed, that this act would be the death
blow to,Mormonism, but when finding out their
mistake, and that the Saints did not resent it as
they expected them to, they commenced the
same course towards the Apostles, to whom
Joseph had delivered the Keys of the Kingdom.
But knowing themselves to be innocent, and
that they would be treated in a similar manner,
having proven how much justice there was to
be found in the United States for “Mormons;”
they had no notion of putting themselves into
the power of blood-thirsty men to be placed in
chains and dungeons, for this would have
brought a dead standstill to the work upon the
Temple.
	Had not this people (as a rule) been the
most honest and sincere followers of Christ,
and willing to he led and controled in the Holy
order of the priesthood, and governed by prin-
ciples which were continually being taught and
impressed upon their minds by wiser heads,
more (I believe) would have been driven to
desperation, and long ago have attempted to


deal out retribution in their own way, as did
John D. Lee and his gang. But they were not
walking in obedience, and were entirely void
of the Holy spirit, or they could never have
committed so cruel and cowardly an act—tak-
ing advantage of that time and opportunity to
wreak vengence upon a small company of emi-
grants, although the latter were heard cursing
and threatening as they went through the
settlements, and boasting of what they had
done to the "Mormons" in Missouri, and what
they would do before they left the territory,
still they were not excusable, for they had been
taught better from the beginning, and that they
would never be justified in taking up arms or
to shed blood, except in self defence, but were
to leave all things to Him, who says, "Vengence
is mine, I will repay." They forgot this, just
as the majority of the world do, and allowedtheir
wicked passions to get the upper hand of them,
and united with the wild Indians, who, it is
well known at that time, were extreemly savage
and hostile towards the whites, and had already
caused a great amount of trouble and expense
to this people, who, it should be remembered,
were not allowed to live anywhere else within
our country's domains, but among the mur-
derous and treacherous savages, and we are not
indebted for our own lives to any effort or
assistance rendered us by Uncle Sam. But
these things are never taken into consideration
by those who cry treason and harp upon the
worn out tales of crimes which were never com-
mitted nor sanctioned by the Latter-day Saints,
for if they had it would have sealed their eter-
nal damnation, and for such we know there is
no redemption. At the same time our over
righteous accusers would rejoice could they
but get the power and opportunity to wipe us
out of existence, and they are the ones who
boast so loudly of their own spotless purlty, of
their superior wisdom, and of their great and
enlghtened Christianity. But thank God that
we are separated from such, and that we have
higher and more exalted aims than persecuting,
fighting and shedding the blood of our fellow
beings, because they will not believe nor be
governed by the "same religious" views that we
are, and that He has brought us out from
among them, and helped us to colonize this
desert land, and redeem it from its barrenness,
making it to  blossom as the rose, and that the
honest in heart are being gathered here from
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, as
Jesus declared they should be, through the in-
strumentallity of His servants, who have been
obedient to his command to go forth into the
world without purse or scrip etc., and that we
can stand up boldly and proclaim to the world
our innocence, and that we have kept ourselves
freer from crime and corruption than have any
other sect or society in the known world. Why,
we ask, in the name of conscience should not
the priests and leaders of other denominations
be made answerable for all the lawlessness and 
crimnal acts that are committed by church
members, and be brought before courts and im-
prisoned for the same, as they have sought con-
tinually to do by the authorities of the Church
of Latter-day Saints? This is something that
few stop to reflect upon, and a question which
fewer, I think, would be willing to answer; but
we do not envy them, for when we are brought 
face to face in the presence of Zion’s King,
they will then learn to their own dismay that 
in persecuting us they have been warring
against their Great and only Redeemer.
		To be Continued.


