IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow and loving
remembrance that we are called upon to record the
death of Sister Alice Warburton Needham, which took
place at her residence in the Seventh Ward, May l0th,
1883.
	Deceased was born at Darsbury, Cheshire, England,
March 10th, 1826. She was married to her husband,
Brother James Needham, in 1850, and immediately af-
terwards emigrated to America, and settled in Kanes-
ville, (now Council Bluffs) Iowa, in which place she re-
ceived the Gospel and was baptized. She went to St.
Louis in 1852, where she resided until 1854, when she
came to Utah with her husband. In 1855 she came to
reside in the Seventh Ward, and continued to reside
up to the time of her death. She became a member of
the Relief Society of the Ward at the time of its re-or-
ganization, and filled successively the office of Coun-
selor and President, to which latter office she was cho-
sen May 20th, 1872, and continued to hold the same un-
til her death.
	Sister Needham was a faithful wife, a true and
affectionate mother and a fatihful friend. From the
time that she embraced the Gospel she never faltered in
her faith, and her whole life was devoted to the dis-
charge of her duties as a Latter-day Saint in every po-
sition in which she was placed. She leaves a husband,
three children, seven grandchildren and a host of loving
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	The follwoing resolutions of respect to our beloved
President, Sister Alice W. Needham, who departed this
life May 10th, 1883, in the fifty-seventh year of her age,
were unanimously adopted by the Relief Society of the
Seventh Ward of Salt Lake City:
	Whereas, God, in his infinite wisdom, has called from
our midst our President, who was greatly beloved and
respected by us all for her kind and gentle disposition,
her pure, virtuous and exemplary life, her faithful
labors in our Society, and the many good qualities
she possessed.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, the members of the
Relief Society of the Seventh Ward of Salt Lake City,
do deeply mourn the loss of our beloved President,
Sister Alice W. Needham, and that we condole with her
husband, children and relatives in their great loss. But
while mingling our tears with theirs, we would point
with joy to the hope of a glorious ressurrection which
all true Latter-day Saints possess.
	And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
resolutions to her husband, and that a copy be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and that they
be spread upon our record book, that the knowledge of
her virtue and inestimable goodness may be handed
down to future generations for their guidance and emu-
lation.
			HARRIET WOODBURY,
[Signed]		ELLEN DINWOODEY,		Counselors.
				MARY ALICE LAMBERT,
					Secretary.


A narrow-minded  man can never; possess
real and true generosity; he can never go be-
yond mere beneovlence. --Talleyrand
  Louisa B. Stephens is the first woman to be-
come President of a bank. She succeeds her
husband in the First National Bank of Marion, 
Iowa.
  Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or 
duties, but of little things, in which smiles and 
kindnesses and small obligations, given habitu-
ally, are what win and preserve the heart, and 
secure comfort-- Sir H. Davy.
   Maria Mitchel, Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College, has received the degree of L. L
D. from Hannover College, Madison, Ind., the 
first time this degree has been conferred on a 
woman.


