WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A VENERABLE WOMAN.
					______
		PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
				[Continued.]
	It is difficult to write a life so varied, one
might say complex, as the one of Sister Pres-
endia satisfactorily. There are so many min-
ute details that fill in so many different places
that to make a complete whole would require
moro space than newspaper columns afford.
However, brief outlines have brought us so
far on the journey into the wilderness as to
Winter Quarters, and now let us stay awhile
in this resting place by the way and recall a
few items of interest. Here the people waited,
yes, waited for the pioneers, waited for the
Mormon Battalion, a weary waiting, a desolate
waiting.
	The Saints built log houses, "chinked in," ac-
cording to a Western phrase, and covered
generally with dirt and straw. The floors
were dirt or sometimes puncheon. When we
consider the comfortable homes the Saints had
left, the hardships and privations they had en-
dured, the hundreds of deaths by the way, we
may well say, "it was like the children of Isra-
el in the wilderness," Yet through faith they
endured without murmuring, and besought the
Lord for strength and his spirit to sustain
them. Sister Presendia's home was a very
humble one, built of logs and covered with
straw and dirt, a little straw upon the dirt
floor for cleanliness. Here she toiled day af-
ter with scanty fare, and taught the children,
and when school would close for the night her
voice would leave her with weakness and over
exertion; but she loved the children and
gained their affection.
	The people were afflicted with much sick-
ness, the water of the Missouri river was un-
healthy, it was an ague country; provisions
were scarce, and the lack of vegetables and
fruit caused scurvy and other similar com-
plaints, and on all sides there were sickness
and distress, very few escaped, and many died.
Sister Presendia was taken seriously ill the
week her school closed for the season, she was
attacked with winter fever; but she had un-
swerving faith in the ordinances of the Gospel,
and through the exercise of faith by those
around her and the careful nursing and kind
attentions of friends, she was, after a painful
and dangerous illness restored to health.
	About this time three of the brethren who
went out with the Mormon Battalion came
back to Winter Quarters, having been sent on
special business from Pueblo. One of the
three was John Tibbetts, the other names the
lady does not remember. The circumstance
made a lasting impression upon her mind, she
says, "I never beheld such a pitiful sight be-
fore as these poor, worn out travelers present-
ed. Their clothing hung in rags, their faces
burned, and with sun and snow they were
nearly blind. Their feet were wrapped in raw-
hides from the buffalo. I sat and heard them
tell how fearfully they had suffered crossing
the prairies in the dead of winter, and all this
in the employ of a government that had driven
us, defenceless women and children, into a
savage wilderness. I could not refrain from
weeping when I looked upon these my breth-
ren and realized how they had suffered."
	As early in the Spring of 1847 as the snow
left the ground, the pioneers who had been
busy preparing themselves during the winter,
left to search out a haven of refuge for the
Saints who had been compelled to flee from a
land of liberty, yes, a land of freedom, free-
dom purchased with the blood of their own
ancestors, who had themselves fled from re-
ligious persecution and tyranny. Only a few
men were left to raise grain and vegetables,
and protect the women and children. Five
hundred able-bodied men had gone to Mexico
to serve their country, and the pioneers took
away nearly one hundred and fifty more, thus
were left the aged, the feeble, the women and
the children. The sisters left almost as it
were alone, were humble and prayerful and
lived near to the Lord, otherwise they could
not have lived at all. The families of the Bat-
talion men, the families of the pioneers were
left as it were dependent upon the Lord for
protection. Sister Presendia at this time was
living with Sister Laura Pitkin, another of the
wives of Heber C. Kimball, their house was
near Sister Vilate's, and they used often to
meet and pray together, and others of the
family and neighbors would gather in. They
were much exercised in their feelings for the
pioneers who had gone out into a new and un-
discovered country, exposed to the perils of a
savage wilderness. It was a time of great
anxiety. Soon after the pioneers left, when
the weather grew warmer, another company,
consisting of all those who could fit themselves
out with teams and provisions, grain for plant-
ing and implements of husbandry, started upon
the trail of the pioneers towards the Rocky
Mountains; now indeed was the settlement al-
most deserted. The Sisters had greater need
to draw near to the Lord, and the manifesta-
tions of his goodness and power were indeed
marvelous, especially in healing the sick. The
gift of tongues and interpretation, and the gift
of prophecy were given them for their comfort
and consolation in this trying time.
---To mention one or two of the wonderful
manifestations of the healing power will surely
not be out of place. A child of Lyman Whit-
ney's (brother of Bishop N. K. Whitney) was
restored to life after it was seemingly past re-
covery. The little one had not seen or spoken
for two days, its eyeballs were dried over, the
sisters were called in to administer, Sister
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sister Vilate, Sister
Laura Pitkin and Presendia Kimball and one
or two others. They administered, anointing
the child with oil, and bathing its eyes with
milk and water, and it was restored to life and
health miraculously, but the sisters gave God
the glory.
	On another occasion, previously, a visit was
made at Sister Leonard's and a meeting was
held, at which Sister Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney were
present, also Sisters Vilate and Presendia Kim-
ball and some others. Brother Leonard spoke in
tongues in an Indian language, and prophesied
of the destruction of this nation before the
coming of the Savior. The power that rested
upon him was so great as to produce such an
intense sympathy with those in the room, that
they were all wonderfully affected. Sister Eliza
Snow walked the floor to keep her breath.
All felt the distress and agony that awaited
the nation, more particularly the priests and
harlots being destroyed in their wickedness.
Sister Eliza Snow spoke afterwards in the pure
language of Adam, with great power, and the
interpretation was given.
			To be Continued.


