WASTE NOT WANT NOT.

	Waste is a subject that is rarely spoken of in
connection wiih religion. "Wilful waste makes
woful want," is an old saying, also "Waste not
want not;" though the latter does not always
prove true. From Holy Writ we learn that it
is displeasing to God, and our own reason con-
firms it. It is more especially so when so many
of the earth's inhabitants fare so poorly.
	St. Peter says, "To knowledge add temper-
ance;" aud when Jesus had fed the multitude
with five loaves and two small fishes, He told
them to "Gether up the fragments that re-


mained that nothing be lost." Modern revela-
tion in the Doctrine and Covenants informs us
that God has given the beasts of the field, the
fowls of the air, the herb and the good things
that came of the earth, whether for houses,
barns, orchards or gradens, for the benefit and
use of man, to please the eye and gladden the
heart, for food and raiment, taste and smell
and to enliven the soul.
	And it pleaseth God that He hath given all
these things unto man; for unto this end were
they made, to be used with judgment, not to
excess, neither by extortion, and in nothing
doth man offend God, or against none is his
wrath kindled, save those who confess not His
hand in all things, and obey not his command-
ments.
	Vegetarianism is now attracting considerable
attention in Europe, and is advised on account
of the land being able to support three times the
people, if cattle were not fed, and the ground
planted with grain and vegetables. But God
says "Whoso forbiddeth to abstain from meat
that man should not eat the same is not or-
dained of God;" but "Wo be unto that man
that sheddeth blood, or that wasteth flesh and
hath no need." Doc. and Cov. It is also given
that it is pleasing to Him that meat should
only be eaten in the time of winter, or excess
of hunger, and all things are to be used with
judgment and not to excess.
	Also cruelty to animals, though not often
considered religiously, is not the less worthy of
our condemnation, while their general inability
to defend themselves should implore our clem-
ency. It is said that much torture is inflicted
on animals by physiologists and that physiology
cannot posssbly progress except by means of
experiments on living animals. A humane
writer says "You may buy knowledge at the
cost of sin, and often do so in scientific investi-
gations.
	We do not remember reading any scripture
on the subject, but it seems reasonable that
God does not like his dumb creatures to suffer,
especially as it is written that a sparrow does
not fall to the ground without His notice.
Christ's commandment to "Do unto others as
ye would that they should do unto you" is
probably not out of place in regard to the
brute creation, and certianly to torment and
abuse them is the reverse of mercy; kindness
and compassion, which attributes we are en-
couraged to cultivate and practice.
