EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	A good place for invalids is to go to the Elec-
tric Baths at Mrs. Dr. Hereford's, Thirteenth
Ward, on Third South Street, between First and
Second East Streets. The baths are medicated
as well as electric, and are very exhilarating.
They are specially good in cases where there is
a lack of circulation of the blood, or any indica-
tions of paralysis, also for nervous complaints.
Mrs Horsford is a very genial, affable lady, and
takes great pains to make everything pleasant
and easy. There is a bed to lie down upon in
the room after having taken the bath, which Is
quite a consideration for delicate people.


[Column 1]

	WE had the pleasure of meeting several ladids
and gentlemen of the Boston Excursion party,
among them Mr. and Mrs. Goddard, Major and
Mrs. Pierce from Orange, Mass., who live near
our own home, and who were well acquainted
with some of our relatives, which was especially
gratifying. They expressed themselves pleased
with our city, and particularly with the sermon
of President George Q. Cannon, delivered on
Sunday in the large Tabernacle.

	THE ladies will remember doubtless that this
number—June 1st—commences Volume 12 of
the EXPONENT. It is expected that we shall
have a cover for the paper soon, and indeed had
anticipated commencing this volume with it, but
unavoidable delays have made it impossible to
get the necessary forms here in time, and we do
not think it wise to wait, but pos-ibly it will be
ready by the 1st of July. It will give the paper
a better appearance for a lady's parlor or draw-
ing-room table. We trust the friends and pa-
trons of the "Mormon" woman's paper will re-
new their subscriptions and thereby help to
made it popular, as well as a success financially.
It is already much sought after by strangers and
tourists as a method of finding out something
of the women of this peculiar people who are so
much spoken against all over the world.

	ON pioneer day, the 24th of July, the memor-
able anniversary of the entrance of the pioneers
into Salt Lake Valley, there will be two grand
concerts given in the large Tabernacle in the
city, under the musical direction of Brother
Evan Stephens, the chlidren's favorite. These
two concerts are for the benefit of the Sunday
School Union, the Deseret Hospital and Brother
Stephens' classes. The proceeds to be equally
divided between the three institutions after all
expenses have been paid. Two preliminary
meetings have already been held and the pre-
paratory work commenced. Brother Stephens
will bring several hundred children from Ogden
and Logan, who have been and are now being
trained under his care, to unite with his classes
here in the city in the grand choruses. Twelve
hundred little singers in the Tabernacle will be
a wonderful attraction. The programme is not
yet quite completed, but will be issued very
soon in pamphlet form and scattered throughout
the several settlements north, south, east and
west. It will be a mammoth affair, and in con-
sideration of the day and object in view, it ought
to bring thousands of people from other places.
The officers of the Sunday School Union act as a
committee in behalf of that institution, Brother
George Goddard, Assistant Supt. of Sunday
Schools, Chairman; and "Ways of Means
Committee" of the Deseret Hospital, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball, Chairman, are acting in behalf of
the Association; these Commitiees will call to
their aid such other help as they require in order
to make the affair a complete success. Two
special committees have already been appointed.
Elder George Goddard, Mrs. Annie G. Sharp
and Mrs Priscilla Jennings, Committee to make
arrangements with the railroads for special rates
etc., and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Elder Abram H-
Cannon and Brother Evan Stephens, Committee
on programme. The display will be a magnifi-
cent one, and will be worth seeing.
	The concert will open with music on the great
organ by Prof. Joseph Daynes; then comes
America's grand national anthem "Hail Col-
umbia by a grand chorus of twelve hundred
voices, orchestra and organ accompaniments
with twelve hundred American flags waving.
This followed by other national American songs,
chorus by the full company. The "Ho for
Europe," England comes first, a youth bears
the banner with the British colors, and "Rule
Brittania" resounds from the orchestra, a gentle-

[Column 2]
man dressed in the British uniform sings the
grand old song, while up goes twelve hundred
fans with England's colors Scotland comes
next, with the uational airs and bagpipes, a boy
in costume bearing the banner with the thistle,
and the songs of the country are sung. Next
the Welch banner is borne to the front, and the
favorite songs of "Wild Wales." The full chorus
take up the refrain in English. Then a grand
chorus in Welch. Now to the Emerald Isle, and
the banner with the Irish shamrock song, "The
Wearing of the green," and the fans are changed
to green—then for the "Lily of LaBelle France,
and the Marseille, changing the color again
which will with other items conclude the first
part of the programme of the first concert, be-
ginging again with Germany, costume etc., and
the old song "Watch on the Rhine," and still
another change of colors. Switzerland and Italy
follow, and then northward to Scandinavia,
of which Utah contains a very large representa-
tion, and these different countries will have fair
and excellent representation, in their favorite
music, songs and costumes, with banners, mot-
toes, etc.


