INFLUENCES AND DISCIPLINE.

	How true it is that outward objects and sur-
roundings affect us in this life. There are—
there must be certain unseen influences too
that exalt or debase, as well as that which we
see and hear. Place a child in an atmosphere
of wickedness, where he hears bad language, and
is a witness to dishonesty, duplicity and mean-
ness, and it becomes second nature to him al-
most invariably, even though he may have
been born of goodly parents and with unvitia-
ted blood. And vice versa, though there may
be exeptions to this general rule. Tempta-
tions are incidental to human life, there is no
doubt but this is strictly in accordance with
certain laws and principles marked out as pre-
paratory, or educational to obtaining a higher
state of perfection. Trials, we are told, purify
us as gold seven times tried. If we possess
pure gold, or its equivalent, in our souls we
shall never know it unless we pass through the
trying and purifying process. And yet our
natural inclinations would lead us to avoid all
that would be calculated to stir our hearts to
their very depths, and open up the fountains
of sorrow, or perhaps bitterness. But fortu-
nately, it may be for us, we have not exactly
the, shaping of our own destiny, though we
may cut and carve away at it considerably,
and sometimes mar it, in attempting to mold it

[Column 2]

to our ideas. Life is a beautiful thing after
all, notwithstanding all the hard knocks and
bruises one gets, and the rough paths our feet
must sometimes tread on in its great highway.
The jostling, and crowding, and pushing
among our fellow men makes us more
mindful of others, finding we must give a
little, yield a point, and that others have
rights that must be respected as well as our-
selves. Otherwise we might be intensely sel-
fish, as some are inclined to be even now,
though we get so much discipline by contact
with the great world of mankind. But, as I
said at first, people certainly partake of the
scenes among which they live. This is a fact
that cannot be denied. If oceans, mountains,
lakes and rivers, prairies, valleys and forests
effect in a large degree the stronger and more
prominent traits of character, then why not in
the finer qualities of heart and mind by the
beautiful in art, in music, in poetry and the re-
finement in the homes of the people, be they
rich or poor, effect them by association even
though they may not receive a high degree of
cultivation in any one of these branches. To
live among refined people is in itself cultiva-
tion; to live among beautiful objects, if one
has the sense to appreciate, is impressional; to
hear good music is to be emotional; there is
nothing more powerfully emotional than music;
even the music of the waterfall, the murmur-
ing of a river as it winds its way towards the
ocean, but more grand and sublime still, the
murmuring sea, music indeed, music that lives
forever afterwards in the soul. One who has
lived in early life, or for many years by the
seashore, can never forget the delightful sound
of the waves as they dash and break against
the beach, or in soft murmurs lull one to sleep
in their gentler and more placid moods. It
comes back again ever and anon, fresh and
natural in after years like a sweet melody.
Music is, and must be, the highest human
sense, the nearest approach to Deity. The
Creator has all things set to music, and in the
most delicate rhythm, and we only catch here
and there a whisper, an undertone of the di-
vine inspiration. It is so far above our poor
comprehension, yet by and bye we may under-
stand. Poetry is one of the elements that con-
stitute higher attributes, and to properly ap-
preciate true poetry one must be possessed of a
high order of intellect, must have some con-
ception of music, and be intensely inspiration-
al. I am aware that many will dispute this,
nevertheless I maintain the theory. Who can
judge poetry but a poet, one whose whole soul
revels in the undiscovered realms of that fair
Elysium that lifts you into another atmos-
phere than that of this mundane sphere. Who
can criticise music but a musician whose very
life is not only devoted to it, but enraptured in
its expression? Who should judge the merits
of a painting but an artist, and one who is
able to grasp the subject in its idealistic sense
as well as in the actual developement worked
out by the production upon the canvas. Yet
one may be greatly influenced by any and all
of these things without fully appreciating
them. And indeed much happiness of a fine
quality is given from these sources. It is ele-
vating to live among beautiful scenes out and
in doors, for they beautify and give impres-
sions to our lives that are lasting in character.
They tend to gentler ways and softer morals,
make us more charitable and forgiving, more
in sympathy. with the better side of humanity,
and more lenient towards those who lack in
grace and excellence of attainment. No miser
ever lives among beautiful scenes. Their walls
are bare, their clothing scanty, their lives bar-
ren of good deeds. The remembrance of beau-
tiful scenes, beautiful things and their associa-
tion clings to us as long we live, even though
great changes may transpire in our circum-
stances.

[Column 3]

"Long, long be my heart with such memories filled,
Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled,
You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it still."

Therefore let us gather around us as much of
the beautiful as we can, not encroaching upon
the privileges of others, and when we have that
which is pleasant and happifying let us give
God the glory, and let our hearts swell with
gratitude to Him that "our lives are cast in
pleasant places." And let no one be selfish in
appropriating the gifts of heaven and shutting
out their brethren and sisters who are not so
highly favored, but enlarge their hearts in
proportion to the bounties heaven has bes-
towed, and dispense with a liberal hand to
those in need. Thus may the blessings of hea-
ven descend, for the poor are the Father's es-
pecial care, "for theirs is the kingdom of hea-
ven." And it is true that we can see the ne-
cessity of discipline. The Lord's ways are not
as our ways, and we do not know the ways and
means He makes use of to school our spirits
and bring us into nearness to Him.
	Spiritual impressions are similar in their bear-
ings to material ones; one sees a vision, the
Spirit of the Lord may even accompany it, yet
the whole force of its meaning and influence
may not come at once with all its thrilling
emotions, the soul-absorbing sensations that
follow and linger in the brain, the mind, and
the heart, and often influence one's whole life
afterwards. One who possesses spiritual powers
cultivated to a high extent is always companion-
able, though the education in other respects may
have been neglected.	AUNT EM.


