BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	In the words of Sister Bathsheba Smith, in 
"The Women of Mormondom." "The Fall of
1845 found Nauvoo as it were, one vast mechan-
ic shop, as nearly every family was engaged in
making wagons," and all seemed cheerful while
preparing for the general move to the Rocky
Mountains. There were many intelligent and
active young men who chose to be adopted in-
to different families of the Apostles and Patri-
archs. Among the ones adopted to my father

[Column 2]

were two splended carpenters, Hosea Cushing
and William King, who, with Brother George
Wallace, had been employed to do the carpen-
ter work on our house. They were all three
from Boston. There were three sailors, natives
of Denmark, who came into our family; they
were the first that we had ever seen from that
land, and were something of a curiousity. Hans
C. Hanson, Peter O. Hanson and John Fors-
green were their names—all but the latter and
William King have remained true to the Gos-
pel. So we were well provided with mechanics
and tent makers. Father wrote the following:
"While working in the Temple, Brother Hans
Christian Hanson (a Dane) is our door keeper
and fireman—his brother, Peter Olson, is trans-
lating the Book of Mormon—two thirds
through." The south wing of our house was
turned into a work shop, and nights was occu-
pied by the brethren, who stood guard there
through the winter. The pleasure of having
John Kay and Howard Egan come (who were
stationed there at Brigham Young's through a 
portion of the winter) was always anticipated
by the young people. They were very enter-
taining—Egan with his interesting yarns and
anecdotes, and the singing by John Kay it
would be useless for us to try to describe, but,
suffice it to say, his voice (a baritone) was most
magnificent, and his songs and the style in
which he sang them surpassed anything that we
are accustomed to hearing nowadays; and many
an evening we were thus entertained, as we
circled around the "ingle side," and the hours
flew by so swiftly that midnight was often
there before we knew it. During the summer
previous, John Kay had been in the practice
of standing guard the forepart of the night at
the house of President Young, and often at
evening when the moon shone brightly, Wil-
liam would hitch the horses to our large car-
riage, in which a dozen could easily ride, and
Vilate Young, the President's daughter, being
among the number, we would often call and
take in John Kay, and drive for an hour or
more around the same block, for the sake of
keeping him with us, and each time would
drive closely to the President's gate, to satisfy
him that all was right. The young people
were incapable of feeling the weight which
rested upon our fathers and mothers.
	"November 12th. Last evening I dreamed
of seeing a large quantity of honey bees—they
were peacably inclined." Thus wrote my
father, who was what might be termed a 
dreamer, and of them he makes frequent men-
tion in his journal. His new brick house (it
seems) was finished that day, as he wrote,
"Brother Nichols and Brown came to paint
my house—made a finish of the same, which
makes a completion inside and out, and for
which I feel thankful to my Heavenly Father."
As soon as the house was finished my brother
with his wife and child, moved in with us so
that his place could be disposed of. The spirit
of mobocracy reigned throughout the country,
and they were continually committing depre-
dations upon the Saints in the ourskirts of the
city, and in small settlements. My father
mentions the house of a Brother Rice being
burnt, on the 12th, and says, "thirty men were
engaged in it." "On the night of the 15th,
Brother Edmund Durphy was shot by a mob,
at Lima, and was brought into our city on Sun-
day, the 16th."	* * * "J. B.
Backenstos came in and gave us the particu-
lars of the death of Brother Durphy." On


[Column 1]
the  17th, he wrote, "Egan and Lathrop got
home from St. Louis,   *     *      were hunted
by enemies at every point."
	On the 21st he mentions a sheriff by the
name of Stigall coming there for Brother Fel-
lers, "because (he says) Brother Fellers drove
off his own cattle--this is wonderful." "At
seven in the evening     *         *       Backen-
stos came in and said that Major Warren
swore if the Anties would not help him bring
those men who killed Durphy to justice he
would leave the county, and wanted Backen-
stoes to go for them with his forces."
	On the 24th, he wrote, "The painters are
putting on the last coast of paint in the upper
rooms of the Temple. Two stoves were put
up in the largest room, and they were cleaning
out the upper part. The font is going on--
several of the oxen done--the horns are on."
	"25th, I with Brigham Young and George
A. Smith spent the forenoon in raising money
for the purpose of sending to St. Louis to get
iron--also clothing for the Temple hands as
they are suffering much for the want of the
same. We raised some money to send to
St. Louis by Hiram Kimball.  *     *   "At
two o'clock I went to Bishop Millers, to the
wedding of his son Joshua. My wife and son
William and daughter Helen went with me.
President B. Young and Bishop Whitney and
families were present.       *              *   About
sixty persons took dinner--had good music and
a splendid time." I remember this occasion
and can add my testimony to his of the agree-
able time we spent. About this time a letter
was received by Brother Lewis Robbins, from
William Smith, which, father said "was read
in counsel--it was filled with wrath against the
Twelve." A few days later news came that
William Smith and George J. Adams were
treasoners. Those two men were guilty of
treason, and were inspired by the father of lies
and sought revenge for nothing only because
their own wickedness and corruption had been
brought to light, the same as do all other dis-
honest apostates, who seek vainly to bring des-
truction upon the Holy Priesthood, and those
whome they have withdrawn from; but they only
destroy themselves, by becoming the instru-
ments of his Satanic majesty, who knows as 
well as we "that the salvation of God is sent
unto the Gentiles and that they will hear it."
	On the 27th of November, father wrote,
Silas Haight and Halkins Taylor came into
our city to take some of the brethren prisoners,
being authorised by the United States."
	"On the 28th they left the city, (father said)
in answer to prayer, thank the Lord our God."
	He wrote, "Saturday, the 29th, carpets were
laid down in the attic story of the Temple.
They were sent by different ones for the pur-
pose.     *                    * My wife Vilate,
Sister E. A. Whitney and her daughter Sarah
and Sister Bathsheba Smith came to assist us.
President B. Young, H. C. Kimball, O. Hyde,
P. P. Pratt, G. A. Smith, O. Spencer, L.
Woodworth, G. Miller, W. W. Phelps. L. Rich-
ards and A. P. Rockwood were present, and
at evening we all went into the room of B.
Young, which is the southeast corner, and
bowed ourselves before the Lord, and gave
Him thanks for his goodness unto us in spar-
ing our lives to finish this house, and for many
other blessings received."
	"Sunday, the 30th, I and the others of the
Twelve and about twenty brethren in all,
clothed and offered up the dedication prayer
of the upper rooms."
	"December 1st, A. W. Babbit got home
from Detroit, where he had been on a mission
to the Catholic's. The tidings are good and
cheering--said some of them would be here in
a few days to rent some of our public buildings.
On the 2nd they received a letter from a com-

[Column 2]
pany in Philadelphia, wishing to purchase our
city. The letter was written at Bloomington."
	The following he wrote: "December 5th, at
half past eleven my wife and daughter, Sister
Whitney and daughter Sarah came to the 
Temple for the purpose of doing some dewing.
*         *           *  They commenced working at
twelve o'clock, at the ringing of the Temple
bell.		*	*	*	Sister Mary Anne
Young, wife of President Young, came at two
in the afternoon."
	I remember this circumstance, and that we
sat in father's room, next to B. Young's, who,
with his brother (Uncle Joseph) came in and
sang some hymns--Sister Young assisting them.
Uncle Joseph sang "The Upper California,"
and the rest joined in the chorus. "At four
o'clock (he says) Sister Vilate, Sister Whitney,
Sarah Ann and Helen left; I went with them
to Brother Kingsbury's; took dinner--from
thence they returned home, and I to the Tem-
ple.  In another place is the following: "At
three o'clock William brought his wife, my
daughter Helen and Marry Anne Sheflin (father's
wife) up into the attic of the Temple; I took
them through all the rooms--from where they
went into the top of the tower. After
dark they came to see me in my room; I bowed
with them before the Lord and called upon 
him and asked his blessing upon our heads and
thanked him that He had given us this privi-
lege."
	On Saturday, the 6th, everything was com-
pleted in the attic story of the Temple, and
father wrote, "Peace dwells here in the house
of the Lord. We all feel to rejoice before the
Lord, that he in his kind providence has per-
mitted his servnts to finish the attic. *     *
When we left the room we asked the Lord to
bless Israel, and hold us in safety till we could
give some of his faithful Elders their endow-
ments." On Sunday all of the holy order were
to assemble there. "This (father said) is the 
advice of President B. Young, and our wives
will come and partake with us--the Sacrament
will be administered--thsi gives them great
joy."
	"Sunday, 7th, snow falling--the weather
mild--     *     * went to David Fulmer's and
sealed two women to him for time and eternity.
gave some counsel, and then returned to the
Temple, where I found my wife Vilate, Bishop
Whitney and his wife." Present were the follow-
ing persons, which father says, "are members
of the Holy Order of the Holy Priesthood,
hving received it in the life time of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith, the Prophet and Patriarch:
President B. Young, Mary Ann Young, H. C. 
Kimball, Vilate Kimball, O. Hyde, Marinda N.
Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, Mary Ann Pratt, John
Taylor Leonora Taylor, G. A. Smith,
Bathsheba Smith and Willard Rich
ards, High Priests and their wives, John
and Clarisa Smith, Alpheus and Loris
Cutler, Reynolds and Thirza Cahoon, Newel
K. and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Cornelius
and Permilla Lot, Isaac and Lucy Morley, Orson
and Catharine Spencer, George and Mary Mil-
ler, Joseph Young, Levi Richards, William
Clayton, Joseph Fielding and his sister Mary
Smith, Sister Mercy R. Thompson, Agnes
Smith (Carlos Smith's widow,) Joseph Kings-
bury, John Bernhisel, W. W. and Sally Phelps,
Lucian and Phebe Woodworth. Forty-two per-
sons present. We clothed and commenced our
meeting at two o'clock with prayer by Joseph
Fielding; sang a hymn, and Elder John Taylor
spoke a short time; then H. C. Kimball spoke;
Elder B. Young was sick and had to retire to
his room and lay down on his couch. Elder
O. Hyde gave a short exhortation. After he
closed a hymn was sung; then H. C. Kimball
and Bishop N. K. Whitney broke bread, which
was blessed by H. C. Kimball. Elder B. 
Young came in and partook with us. Wine was
blessed by Joseph Young and carried around

[Column 3]
by N. K. Whitney; we had singing while it
was passing around. Then P. P Pratt arose
and spoke, and W. W. Phelps spoke--great
solemnity rested upon the brethren and sisters;
great union in our meeting.     *     *    * John
Smith (the Patriarch) spoke a short time, then
Elder B. Young said, this quorom should meet
here every Sabbath and partake of the Sacra-
ment. They gave us good counsel     *     *
all went home in good spirits." 
			To be Continued.


