RICHMOND.

	Minutes of the Fourth Annual Meeting of
the Richmond Primary Association, held May
31st, 1883, President Mary Allsop presiding.
Singing, "Always Cheerful." Prayer by Elder
W. K. Burnham. Singing, "We are the child-
ren of the Saints." Minutes of the last annu-
al meeting; and the yearly report read and ap-
proved. The officers were presented and sus-
tained for the following year, as follows: Mary
Allsop; President; Mary Monson and Maggie
W. Thompson, Counselors; Mary A. Traveller,
Secretary; Elizabeth Merrill, Assistant Secre-
tary; Reuben Traveller, Treasurer; Nellie
Bullen and Jane Hyer, Teachers. The follow-
ing programme was rendered: Marinda Mon-
son recited, "A kind action;" Maria Hansen
sang, "The Golden Rule;" Dialogue, entitled,
"Jennie and Carrie," by Ellen Hyer and Han-
nah Funk; Susie Thomas sang, "Home Sweet
Home;" Rachel Knapp recited, "To Brigham
Young;" Nellie Bullen recited, "Birth of
Joseph and Hyrum;" Kate and Talitha Rainey
sang, "Paddle your own Canoe;" Millie Travel-
ler recited, "The chicken that did'nt hatch;"
Sinia Beck sang, "Little Footsteps;" Recitation
by Maud Tippetts, entitled, "Never say cant,
but I'll try;" Justin Skidmore recited, "Little
boys will grow;" "'Tis meeting day," was sang
by Julia Olsen; Frankie Burnham recited,
"Three Rules;" Charles Skidmore recited, "Do
your best;" "Baby Darling," was sang by Bes-
sie Cluff; Laura Merrill recited; "The Sacra-
ment;" Dialogue, by Hyrum and Walter Mon-
son, entitled, "Digging Gold;" Song, by Lucy
Petty, Hyla Hendricks and Maud Tippetts, en-
titled, "Katie's Secret;" Select reading, by
Birdie Harrison; "The Blackberry Girl" was
recited, by Emma Nibley; Isabella and Mary
Thompson sang, "Love at Home;" Bible Ques-
tions were asked, which were answered by the
children; Hattie Skidmore recited, "What have
you done;" Dialogue, by Jane Hyer and Rozina
Funk, entitled, "Meeting;"  Alice Brower re-
cited "The little people;" Song by Chole
Rainey, entitled, "Baby Mine."
	Brother W. K. Burnham praised the child-
ren for rendering their parts so well. Gave ex-
cellent advice.
	Sister Frances Traveller said; remember
what you learn at Primary, for the children
will have to bear off the Kingdom.
	Sister Betsey Brower advised the children to
do as they were told, and never say "no when
called on to perform any task.
	Sister Hannah T. Brower said, it is four years
to-day since the Primary was organized. God
bless you all, and help you to improve in all
things.
	President Mary Allsop told the childreu to
remember the Primary motto, which is "Child-
ren love each other." Singing, "We want to
see the Temple." Benediction by the children
in concert.
	 Yearly report. Number of meetings held,
48; Number of members, 183; Average attend-
ance 90; Cash received $34,45; Cash paid out,
$31.95; Donated to Temple, $20.00; Emigra-
tion Fund, $5.00; Paid to Stake Secretary,
$1.00; Paid for books, cards, writing-material,

[Column 2]
etc., 5.95; Cash on hand, $2.50; Property
$5.00; total, $7.50.
	MARY A. TRAVELLER, Secretary,
	ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst. Secretary

