CIATION:

	We are banded together in the promulgation
of one of the most momentous moral and politi-
cal reforms that has ever agitated our country,
and one which must, in the nature of things,
revolutlonize the social and political status of
the women of this Union. It will overturn the
Old Common Law, that the man and the
woman are one, and that one the man; and

[Column 2]
that the ability to hold land means the ability
to bear arms; in short, that "might alone makes
right."
	It took us, as a people, nearly a century to
shake off the incubus of human slavery, and to
publicly declare that color should not interfere
with the rights of citizenship. The Declaration
of the Fathers that "all men are born free and
equal" had been warped to mean that color took
away the indices of manhood, and that Negroes
and Indians were not men; and for a series of
decades these people were oppressed, depressed,
insulted and outraged. It took the point of the
bayonet, dipped in the best blood of the country
for three years, to so write the argument that
the people could understand and believe it. To-
day there is not, in the whole land, man or
woman bold enough to advocate a return to the
old order of things, either as a matter of expedi-
ency or necessity. We have now narrowed the
argument of human rights and human privi-
leges down to the one point of sex. A woman
in every State in this Union may hold land in
her own right. She may pay taxes, real and
personal, invest in bank or railroad stock, is a-
menable to the law which in every section reads
his or him, and may commit and be hung
for treason against the government. Without
any opinion as to her innocence or guilt (for I
have none), I am glad that one woman suffered
this martyrdom; that one woman demonstrated
that she had power to conspire for the overthrow
of the Government. And yet every drop of blood
that courses through my veins is loyal to my
country and her best interests, not to a section,
a faction, a party, or a creed, but to the best
good of this whole people—North and South,
East and West.
	Mrs. President, what our reform means is,
the individuality of woman; equal rights and
privileges, and equal responsibilities; the right
to say who shall rule over us, and how we shall
be taxed; the right to put down the whisky
traffic with the ballot; the right to a voice in
the control of our public schools. Not the abill
ty to bear arms, for war is a relic of the barbar-
ism of the past, and to-day the "pen is mightier
than the sword." Reason, reflection, argu-
ment, are subduing the passions of men, and
the god-like and the immortal in man is con-
trolling the brutal and the mortal.
	It is argued that if women are permitted to
vote, that colored women, ignorant women, and
women in brothels will vote. Yes; but to day
colored men, ignorant men, foreign men, and
men who hang around whisky saloons and
brothels (and they largely outnumber the
women) vote. The tramp nuisance is confined
to men. The croaker goes farther, and says
that it will unsettle our domestic relations, dis-
rupt and dismember families; that women will
neglect their homes and their children. Per-
haps they would, if women were disposed to fol-
low the example of the pot-house politician, the
hanger-on at the corner grocery and beer saloon.
But nearly the same arguments have been
raised at every step of advancement that has
been made in this or any other country. When
a woman forgets her maternity, and natural
love and affection die, then, and not till then,
will she forget and neglect her children and her
home. But is the moral duty of a mother to
her home greater than that of a father? Is
there not a common compact of nature and of
law that binds them equally? Does the ballot
unfit the man for this duty?
	The Constitution of the United States, the
embodiment of the wisdom of the Fathers of
the Revolution, confers upon woman the right
of the ballot, as follows:
	"All persons born or naturalized in the Uni-
ted States, aud subject to the jurisdiction there-

[Column 3]
of, are CITIZENS of the United States and of the
State in which they reside. No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law, nor deny to any person within its
Jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
	Ten years ago the attention of Congress was
called to this clause of the Constitution as con-
ferring this right of suffrage, and able legal ar-
guments were made upon it, but our appeals
and petitions were disregarded, and might over-
ruled the plain letter of the law. Gen. B. F.
Butler, bold and intrepid, advocated it then.
True to himself, he has recently, in his masterly
inaugural to the Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts, reiterated that conviction. But failing to
secure legislative indorsement of the right of
franchise of the women of the country, we ask
a sixteenth amendment to the Constitution of
the United States to settle this vexed question
at once, and forever, and thus do justice to the
wives and mothers and sisters and daughters of
this great American Republic, of which we
have boasted as the freest and grandest country
under the sun. Twelve States of the Union,
including Massachusetts and New York, have
granted school suffrage to women. Nebraska,
in her last election, polled 28,000 male votes for
woman suffrage. If the women themselves
had been permitted to vote, there would have
been 50,000 votes cast, and the election would
have been won. School suffrage for women
means a proper education of the children—a
coming up out of the old order of things; out of
the idea which is an emanation of the heathen-
ism handed down to us from the darkness and
superstitions of the past, into the broad light of
a Christian civilization, which means to women
intelligent thought, freedom, responsibility, re-
ward for labor, the emoluments of office, and
self-support. It means an incentive to study
and work; a light in the horizon of the dawning
of a new day.
	For more than a decade, Wyoming and Utah,
with characteristic justice and these articles of
the Constitution before them, decided through
their respective Legislatures, to give a ballot to
their women. For twelve successive years
these women have voted, and homes have not
been destroyed, nor children orphaned, but, on
the contrary, harmony and morality have been
the prevailing results of giving to the women
themselves this method of self-protection.
These are precedents—actual, tangible demon-
strations of the principles enunciated by the
National Woman Suffrage Association. But
the enemies of reform, ever on the alert for
cause, willing to descend to trickery and chican-
ery to compass an end, no matter at whose cost,
and seizing hold of the most trivial pretext to
carry a point, make the religious belief of the
Mormons, which culminated in the Edmunds
bill March 22nd, 1882, a pretext for disfranchis-
ing polygamists, male and female, and disquali-
fying them from holding office. The law was
signed and promulgated, and the commissioners
duly appointed and set to work to ferret out
every unfortunate man and woman who had
ever espoused that principle of the Mormon
faith, and to place upon each the ban of
disfranchisement and disqualification for of-
fice. With singular fidelity and zeal, these
commissioners did more than confine them-
selves to the strict letter of the law, which was
in itself severe. They made the law
retroactive, contrary to the spirit and the
letter of the Constitution. They under-
took to enforce their idea of the intent
of the law, and what they believed the
law ought to be, and to depose men from office


[Column 1]
who had been duly elected by the voice of the
people. It invaded the domestic relations of
the territory, disrupted families; and strange to
say, in its efforts to punish men, who alone had
committed the offence, for the crime of bigamy
and polygamy, wreaked its vengeance upon the
women. It has never been charged, so far as I
know, that any woman in Utah has, openly,
lived with more than one husband. But this
Edmund's Bill disfranchises the first wife of a
Mormon, who of all other persons should have
been considered guiltless of offence. If she be
guilty then, any woman in this house would be
guilty of a crime, if her husband should com-
mit, or attempt to commit bigamy or polygamy.
But the Mormon people submitted to this out-
rage, and quietly refrained from any attempt to
vote. Every polygamous Mormon, and
every wife of a polygamist was dis-
franchised. One would have supposed
that the matter would have ended there;
but there is that spirit in tyranny and oppres-
sion, that when the victim is under its heel, it
wants to grind him a little more, inflict some
further torture. Now comes the Hon. George
William Cassidy, of Nevada, the only member
from that little far off Western State, and wish-
ing to immortalize himself in some way, moves
to disfranchise the women of Utah. He wants
to wipe out, at one fell swoop, more votes than
it took to elect him to office. He wants in his
magnanimity to punish women for the crimes
of men,—to punish Gentile or non-Mormon wo-
men for the alleged direliction of Mormon men.
He says by way of explanation in the newspapers
"that this blow is not aimed at woman suffrage
so called but at bigamy and polygamy." The
Hon. Mr. Cassidy knows, if he knows anything,
that no bigamist or polygamist man or woman,
can vote in Utah now, and that whatever he in-
tends, his bill is a blow to woman suffrage and
only a fool or a knave would deny it. But it
does not matter so much what a gun is aimed
at, as what it hits. Hear the gentleman for
himself.
	Mr. Cassidy introduced the following bill: "A
bill to disapprove and repeal an act of the gov-
ernor and legislative assembly of the Territory
of Utah entitled "An act conferring upon
women the elective franchise," and for other
purposes.
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ameri-
ca in Congress assembled, That the act of the
Governor and legislative assembly of the Terri-
tory of Utah entitled "An act conferring upon
women the elective franchise, and approved by
the governor of said Territory February twelfth,
eighteen hundred and seventy, be, and the
same is hereby disapproved and repealed.
	Section 2. That all other laws or parts of
laws now in force in said Territory conferring
upon women, in said Territory, the elective
franchise, be, and they are hereby, disapproved
and repealed."
	Now ask the gentleman what his little bill is
aimed at; and when the time comes to re-elect
a representative for the little State of Nevada,
let the women of that State arise in their own
womanhood, and politely ask Mr. Cassidy, (if
they can do it in no other way, through their
fathers, husbands, and sons,) to stay at home
and till the soil, or delve in the mines of that
productive State. He was elected to Congress
by the meagre majority of 1,237 votes. Anyone
of the eloquent women on this platform could
go to that State and turn the tide against him.
And so let every politician die whose greed for
office outruns his sense of justice and who denies
the paternity of his own child, or the signifi-
cance of it, as Mr. Cassidy does in this bill.
	Hardly had the sound of this gentleman's

[Column 2]
voice died on the air before the Hon. George F.
Edmunds, of Vermont, comes forward with an
Amendment to his former little bill. Growing
bolder by the success of his first bill, which was
as unconstitutional as it was unjust; under cover
of an exalted purity and patriotism, he shies a
stone at woman suffrage making bigamy and
polygamy a cloak for the disfranchisement of
whom? The Mormon women? No! they are
already disfranchised under his former bill, all
of them who are now in polygamy, or who
have ever lived in polygamy are already disfran-
chised, but this also includes so called Gentile
women. For what, are they, or have they
been bigamists or polygamists? No! Do
they believe in bigamy or polygamy? No!
Hear what he says:
	"Section 7. That it shall not be lawful for any
female to vote at any election hereafter held in
the Territory of Utah for any public purpose
whatever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect in any manner what-
ever, and any and every act of the governor
and legislative assembly of the Territory of
Utah providing for or allowing the registration
or voting by females is hereby annulled.
	Section 8. That the existing election districts
and apportionments of representation concern-
ing the members of the Legislative Assembly of
the Territory of Utah are hereby abolished; and
it shall be the duty of the Governor, Territor-
ail secretary, and the United [-]tates judges in
said Territory forthwith to redistrict said Terri-
tord and apportion representation in the same
in such manner as to provide as nearly as may
be for an equal representation of the people (ex-
cepting Indians not taxed) being citizens of the
United States, according to numbers, in said Leg-
islative Assembly, and to the number of mem-
bers of the Council and House of Represent-
atives, respectively, as now established by law.
And a record of the establishment of such new
district and the apportionment of representa-
tion thereto shall be made in the office of the
secretary of the said Territory, and such estab-
lishment and representation shall continue un-
til Congress shall otherwise provide; and no
persons other than citizens of the United States
otherwise qualified shall be entitled to vote at
any election in said Territory."
	These citizens are guilty of the crime of being
women, for no fault of their own; "females,"
Mr. Edmunds calls them, which might apply
equally to dog or cat—and for this crime he
proposes to punish them without judge or jury,
and by a flat of law deprive 10,000 women citi-
zens of the ballot, and concludes by saying,
"No person other than citizens of the United
States, otherwise qualified, shall be entitled to
vote at any election in said Territory." And 
now the title of the bill is amended as follows:
	"A bill to provide further means for the sup-
pression of the crimes of bigamy, polygamy,
and unlawful cohabitation in the Territories of
the United States, and to provide for the better
government of the Territory of Utah, and for
other purposes."
	Did ever a politician—I cannot say statesman
—get up so flimsy a pretext for so unjust an act?
Punish innocent women for the crimes of men!
	Does any one of this intelligent audience be-
lieve that that was the honorable gentleman's 
motive?	Disfranchisement is punishment, and
punishment supposes crime, and crime under
our Constitution and laws, call for a trial by a
jury of one's peers, and a conviction of the of-
fense. See decision of the United States Su-
preme Court in case of Cummins, 4th Wallace. 
	Suppose that Mr. Edmunds should attempt
to introduce into the Legislature of his own lit-
tle State of Vermont some sweeping legislation
like this, and under the pretense that some
persons in that State were guilty of unlawful
cohabitation, undertake to wipe out 20,000 or
25,000 votes, not after trial and conviction of
crime, but on general principles punish the in-
nocent with the guilty. If the honorable gen-
tleman is really so intent upon the promulgation
of virtue, and the purity of the morals of the

[Column 3]
Republic is what is really disturbing his diges-
tion, let him experiment upon the Congress of
the United States, and see if he will have a
quorum left after the first re-districting, as he
terms it.
	But he goes farther than Utah, and desires to
make this bill apply not only to that unhappy
Territory, but to ALL of the Territories of the
United States—to every spot that Congress dare
invade. He has already had a hand in disfran-
chising the men of the District of Columbia,
and his appetite is whetted for more conquests
of defenseless and misrepresented Territories of
the United States; thus shutting out woman
suffrage by positive legislation in other Terri-
tories, and in new Territories that may be
formed; invading those rights usually delegated
to the States and Territories of the Union, of
arranging their own internal affairs. He seeks
to take away the right of choice from them as
to who shall or who shall not vote.
	But let us see what else there is in this bill re-
lating to women. Read section 1:
	Section 1. That in any proceeding and ex-
amination before the grand jury, a judge or
United States commisoner, in any pro[-]ecution
for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation
under any statute of the United States, the law-
ful husband or wife of the person accused shall
be a competent witness, and may be called and
may be compelled to testify in such proceeding,
examination, or prosecution without the con-
sent of the husband or wife, as the case may be.
	Section 2. That in any prosecution for big-
amy, polygamy or unlawful cohabitation, under
any statute of the United States whether before
a United States commissioner, judge, a grand
jury, or any court, an attachment for any wit-
ness may be issued by the court, judge, or com-
missioner without a previous subpoena, compsil-
ing the immediate attendance of such witness,
when it shall appear to the commissioner, judge
or court, as the case may be, that there is a 
reasonable ground to believe that such witness
would unlawfully fail to obey a subpoena issued
and served in the usual course in such cases.
	This eminent jurist and law-maker, in this
section proposes not only to override the Old
Common Law, and statute law respected from
time immemorial, by bringing witnesses into
court by process of subpoena, but proposes to at-
tach them at once and bring them bodily into
court, or thrust them in jail if need be, to com
pel attendance; to make the wife testify against
the husband or the husband against the wife in
defiance of law, statute, or custom; and the
learned gentleman does not even allude to a pre-
cedent for such unheard-of legislation. He pro-
poses to finish indiscriminately by disfranchis-
ing women never charged or even suspected of a
crime, much less convicted of a felony. He pro-
poses to bring a wife into court against her hus-
band, whether willing or unwilling to convict
him of felony, and thus beggar herself and child-
ren. The learned jurist buries the Blackstonian
idea of the oneness of husband and wife before the
law, so deep that it is doubtful, with his learned
emanation it will ever again be resurrected, or
that barrister or judge will, in the days to come,
venture to allude to it. But he throws "Starkie
on Evidence," and the laws for the Pension
Office quite in the shade when he undertakes to
make a "certificate of marriage, solemnized by
priest or other person," prima facie evidence, of
the facts required by this act to be stated there-
in, in any proceeding civil or criminal in which
the matter shall be drawn in question. No
where in the courts in the United States or in
the Department of the Government is a Certifi-
cate of marriage, which any person can falsify,
taken as evidence. Now listen to another para-
graph of this remarkable bill.
	Section 5. That every record and entry of any
kind concerning any ceremony of mar-
riage, or in nature of marriage, made or kept
by any officer clergyman, priest, or person per-
forming civil or ecclesiastical functions, whether


[Column 1]
lawful or not, in any Territory of the United
States, shall be subject to inspection at all
reasonable times by any officer of justice ap-
pointed under the authority of the United States
and shall, on request, be produced and shown to
such officer by any person in whose possession
or control the same may be. Every person who
shall violate the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars or by im-
prisonment not longer than two years, or by
both said punishments, in the discretion of the
court. And it shall be lawful for any United
States commissioner, judge, or court before
whom any proceeding shall be pending in which
such record or entry may be material by proper
warrant, to cause such record or entry and the
book, document, or paper containing the same
to be taken and brought before him or it for the
purposes of such proceeding.
	What says the Constitution, Article IV. The
right of the people to be secure in their persons;
houses, papers and effects against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated and
no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause
supported by oath or affirmation, and particular-
ly describing the place to be searched, and the
person or thing to be seized."
	Whenever before this proposed legislation was
an officer of the law authorized to invade the
privacy of priest or clergyman, or other private
individual, not suspected or accused of crime,
and make unreasonable searches or seizures, or
drag the occupant before a court of justice, civil
or criminal, without a warrant of law? The
proposition is monstrous.
	Section 2 of Article 4 of the Constitution says,
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all the privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States."
	This Territory, which has for two years past
been made the football of the Congress of the
United States, has now votes enough to be ad-
mitted into the Union in the full-fledged dignity
of a State, as is her right and privilege, when
here comes this monstrous proposition to deprive
one half of her now citizens of citizenship by de-
priving them of the cleative franchise by heap-
ing upon them other indignities, and disqualify-
ing them of office as convicted felons. The posi-
tion of women has been hitherto abject enough,
but we have prided ourselves, Mrs. President, that
in Utah and Wyoming women were enjoying a
freedom denied to most of us; that they could
vote and be voted for, elect and be elected to
office. We cannot take this backward step with-
out drifting into anarchy or monarchy. Woe be
to the security of American liberties, if the en-
croachments proposed to be made by this inci-
pient legislation can be enacted into law.
	But do any of my hearers suppose that the
gist of this affair is to do away with bigamy
and polygamy, and that this is a virtuous up-
rising of the United States Congress? The
Territory of Utah was organized in 1850, with
all of these peculiarities of a portion of her citi-
zens known to the Government, and not only
tolerated, but winked at, and allowed to attain
gigantic proportions. This present strife is a
party one, and raised for political effect, and for
political ends. The real question at issue is,
whether Utah as a State will be Democratic or
Republican, and the honorable Senator from
Vermont is anxious to cut off Democratic votes
enough to secure to this State, when ushered in,
two Republican Senators for his party. He pro-
poses to do this by cutting off the votes of the
women, and at the same time indulging a nar-
row prejudice against the so called Woman's
Rights movement. He is determined to keep
Utah out of the Union, or make her subservient
to his ends, while he remands to slavery the
women of the Territory. Oh! consistency! thou

[Column 2]
art a jewel. On the 21st of December, 1882, this
honorable gentleman was before the United
States Supreme Court in the pay of a monied
corporation, when with pathos and tears he en-
dorsed and sustained the following remarkable
declarations from his colleague, the Honorable
Roscoe Conkling. After elaborating at length
upon the poiont that a corporation is a person,
and entitled to all the rights and privileges of a
person before the law, and elaborating the his-
tory of the 14th and 15th amendments to the
Constitution, he says:
	Referring to Chief Justice Marshall in the
Dartmouth College case, Mr. Conkling read a
strong statement that, even if the framers of
the Constitution did not intend to defer or to in-
clude a given case, it must, nevertheless, fall
within the Constitution, if the language covered
it.
	He added: A poet and philosopher of parables
has said,

"The hand that rounded Peter's dome,
And grained the aisles of Christian Rome,
Wrought in a sad sincerity.
He builded better than he knew."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*		*

	The men who proposed the fourteenth amend-
ment wrought in some sincerity; it may be they
builded better than they knew. If it be true
that needs have arisen of which they never
dreamed; if it be true that wrongs have arisen,
or shall arise, which they never apprehended,
and which shall be cured by the words they es-
tablished, then all the more will those words be
sanctified and consecrated to humanity and
progress.
	Mr. Conkling next argued that the proceeding
by which the defendant was assessed and taxed
was not "due process of law." Reciting the
various discriminations to which his client was
subjected, he said: "Such unjust and discrimin-
ating requirements are not due process of law,
and no matter by what instrumentality they
are inflicted, whether by one of the departments
of its Government or another, or by all, or by
the organic law of the State, the fourteenth
amendment of the Constitution of the United
States acts upon them, and prohibits them."
	Mr. Edmunds, recently, in the United States
Senate, shed tears to the allusions made to his
daughter, dead. If his sorrow be indeed sincere,
let him consecrate the memory of his beloved
one by doing justice to the daughters of the Re-
public. To her oppression cannot come.
	And now comes the honorable Edwin Willets,
of Michigan, who, taking the cue from Mr. Ed-
munds, introduces a similar bill in the House of
Representatives, which also proposes to disfran-
chise the women of Utah. The last two sections
of Mr. Willet's bill have no affiliation whatever
with the text of it, which is entitled "A bill
for the suppression of bigamy and polygamy in
the Territory of Utah." It lacks some of the
oppressive features of the Edmunds bill, but
follows it in the main. The legislation proposed
in all of them is odious, and opposed to the
spirit of the Constitution and Government,
which was founded upon the idea of religious
toleration, and which has ever held that it was
the privilege of each State and Territory to regu-
late its own internal affairs. The authority
given to Congress to control the affairs of the
Territories, is a general one, and previous to the
enactment of the Edmunds bill has never been
inquisatorial in character. The Territories of
the United States have hitherto enjoyed all the
privileges that were originally granted to the
Colonies under the Confederation.
	The progress of woman suffrage depends upon
the nomination and election of upright men to
office."
	After reading Apostle F. D. Richards

[Column 3]
spoke of the lofty sentiments contained in the
address of the gifted lady, that the arguments
were sound and strictly constitutional, eminent-
ly patriotic and truly loyal to the genius of our
government. He concluded by moving a vote
of thanks and appreciation to Mrs. Lockwood
for her able argument in behalf of the women
of Utah. It was seconded by several of the
ladies and gentlemen on the platform and car-
ried unanimously.
	After which Hon. F. S. Richards commend-
ed Mrs. Lockwood's courage in speaking on so
unpopular a subject b fore the Convention and
Members of the Senate as "our question," and
said she was an eminent lawyer and the only
lady who had ever been admitted to practise
law at the bar of the United States Supreme
Court. After years of arduous study of the
science of law, she had been refused admission
to the bar and denied the privilege of represent-
ing her sex in the legal forums at Washington.
But with indomitable energy and untiring per-
severence she had applied to the National Con-
gress for relief, and after years of incessant toil
and of weary waiting, had by an act of Congress
forced open the doors of the temples of justice
throughout the land, which are now open to all
her sex who will prepare themselves for the du-
ties of the profession and enter the arena as she
has done. The speaker became acquainted with
Mrs. Lockwood in Washington. She was a tal-
ented lady' of education and culture, and devo-
ted her labor to promote the best interest of her
own sex, and had for years been one of the lead-
ing spirits of the National Woman Suffrage
movement. She has taken much pains to make
herself acquainted with the situation of the
people and their affairs in this Territory, and
she has had the courage to deliver before the
National Woman's Suffrage Association at the
National Capital the very able and eloquent ad-
dress which we have just heard. He spoke in
glowing terms of the benevolence and heroism
of this excellent lady, and while he took pleas-
ure in paying her this feeble tribute, he regret-
ted that the audience had not the privilege of
listening to her eloquence from her own lips.
	The choir sang. Benediction. Meeting ad-
journed till two o'clock p.m.


