ANNUAL MEETING OF THE D. H. A.

	The first Annual Meeting of the Deseret Hos-
pital Association was held in the Council House,
in this city, Saturday, May 12th ult., Mrs. Eliza
R. Snow Smith presiding. After singing the
hymn beginning "Let Zion in her beauty rise,"
prayer was offered by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
then singing again, "O, my Father, thou that
dwellest," after which the following report of
the secretary for the past year was submitted:
	One year ago to-day a meeting was held in
this house, to consider the matter of organizing
an Association, with a view to the establishment
of a hospital. About twenty-five ladies were
present, and nominations of officers for the as-
sociation were made, and a decision arrived at
to pay an initiatory fee of one dollar each as a
condition of membership, and to elect by vote a
President, Vice-President, Executive Board,
Secretary and Treasurer. Accordingly the fol-
lowing ladies were elected: President, Eliza R.
Snow Smith; Vice-President, Zina D. H. Young;
N. Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Bathsheba M.
Smith and Jane S. Richards; Secretary, E. B.
Wells; Treasurer, M. M. Barrat; as an Honor-
ary Committee, all the Stake Presidents of Re-
lief Societies; Dr. E. B. Ferguson was engaged
as Resident Surgeon; Dr. R. B. Pratt was chosen
Visiting  Surgeons; Mary Emma Vanschooven,
clinical registrar and dispensary clerk; and
Mary Ann McLean, Matron; Visiting Commit-
tees and a Finance Committee were subsequent-
ly chosen. At a meeting held on the 15th.
of May, it was decided to rent a building until
some better arangement could be made, and
committees were appointed to canvass the sever-
al parts of the city, and adjacent districts, and
see what means could be obtained as donations
towards defraying the expenses of establishing
such an institution. A petition was drawn up
and submitted to President Taylor for approval,
and the canvassing committees began their
work. These ladies were enegetic and success-
ful, and meetings were held twice and even
three and four times a week, and reports were
made from the several committees, who had
the labor in hand. President Taylor was noti-
fied from time to time of the proceedings of the
committees, and gave advice in regard to the
movement.
	A circular was issued throughout the various
Stakes of Zion, giving the names of the officers
 of the institution and regulations made to enter
oractically upon the work. One of these was
the suggestion that each Belief Society and Y.
L. and Y. M. M. I. Association should pay
statedly one dollar per month as a regular sub-
scription to assist in defraying the current ex-
penses of the hospital, and that the amount
paid stand as a credit in favor of any member of
the respective Society or Association that should
require the benefit of the same.
	Finally a building considered suitable for the
purpose of a hospital was rented in the Twelfth
Ward, in this city, at $60 per month, and prep-
arations made to formally open the hospital.
A committee waited upon President Taylor,
and invited him to be present at the dedication,
with others of the leading brethren of the
Church, on Monday, July 17th, at ten o'clock a.
m., and at that time the Firsst Presidency of the
Church were all present, also Apostle F. D.
Richards and other brethren, and of the presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion, Elder Joseph E.
Taylor. After the dedicatory services the Resi-
dent Surgeon and Matron were set apart by the
brethren. Patients were received at the hospital,
and business transacted in the name of the
Deseret Hospital Association.
	Some necessary changed have been made since
the organization, from time to time, two ladies
have been added to the Executive Board; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt and Dr. Ellis R. Ship and Dr.
E. S. Barney, to the Visiting Surgeons; the Res-
ident Surgeon resigned at the regular monthly
meeting, Oct. 2nd, and Dr. M. P. Hughes was
engaged to fill the vacancy. In November it
was considered wise to dispense with the ser-
vices of the Dispensary Clerk, in order to econo-
mize. In March the Matron gave notice of her
desire to resign, and at the meeting in April it
was decided to engage Mrs. Harriet Ellis in her
place. Mrs. Ellis was installed as Matron on
the first of May, and is now practically filling
the position.
	The people have donated liberally to the hos-
pital, but the officers of the Association find
that with rent to pay, and necessary help to
keep up the institution, the enterprise requires
strict economy and active executive ability. The
ladies of the Executive Board, who manage the
benevolent institution have certainly shown
great zeal and earnestness in this philanthropical
work, and been determined to make the effort a
successful one for the benefit of the sick and
afflicted among the Latter-day Saints. Through
good and evil report they have been untiring in
diligence and good works, and still feel deter-
mined to persevere in well doing. Only those
who have practically labored in this direction
can appreciate the immense effort that has been
made, and the arduous labors undertaken to ac-
complish what has already been done in this di-
rection, with the sole motive of ameliorating the
condition of suffering humanity. At the pres-
ent time the Association has enrolled eight-hun-
dred and forty-five members, who are expected
to pay an annual fee of one dollar per year.
	Financial report. Total cash received during
the year, $4,772.65; orders, $1,092.05; total, $5,-
864.70. There have been other donations of
lumber, flour, meat, cow and calf, produce and
other things; quilts, blankets, bed linen, etc.
Most of THESE articles have been given by the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. in the several
Stakes of Zion. Expended in cash for fitting up
and furnishing the building as well as current
expenses since opening the Hospital, July 17,
1882, $3,705.28; Total amount of expense in or-
ders, etc., $1,044.55; Total expense, $4,749.83; Re-
maining in cash, $1,067.37; Orders, 47.50; Total,
$1,114.87; The fees from patients received during
the year amount to $754.75 cash; Other things,
$337.30; making in all, $1,092.05.
	After the report had been read and approved
the President made a few remarks, reviewing
briefly some of the labors of the past year and
expressing her gratitude to all who had aided in
the work in any way. She also expressed her
gratitude to President Taylor for his wise counsel,

[Column 3]
and excellent judgment which had been of
great benefit to her, and those associated with
her in the labor. Referred gratefully to the ef-
ficient help and aid received from the Bishop of
the ward, and thanked all who had been helpful
in any way, for it had certainly been a great
blessing to comfort and benefit the sick and
aflicted, and to think that our people can have a
place of their own, where they could receive
medical and surgical assistance, and the admin-
istration of the ordinances of the Gospel where
faith could be exercised for them. The Presi-
dent said the Unity Club had made great efforts
to help the institution and contributed liberally,
indeed they stood foremost in that respect, i. e.,
aiding the hospital. There had been many other
large and small donations.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne made a few remarks,
and added, Sister Eliza expressed her feelings on
the subject. She realized that many of the
patients had received great blessings from the
Lord through fasting and the laying on of hands.
	Dr. Elvira S. Barney stated to the meeting
the proposition she had made to the sisters to
teach a class in obstetrics, anatomy and physi-
ology. It was to the effect that she would give
the teaching free, and only receive bare remun-
eration for room and other services rendered.
The students must find their own provisions,
but a cook would be furnished to prepare the 
meals, also to do the washing for the class.
Sister Barney made other explanations in detail.
	Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden said she was
pleased with Dr. Barney's proposition, thought
it a very liberal one, thought it essential we
should have more efficient nurses and compet-
ent accouchers through the country settle-
ments, referred to her living at a distance from
the hospital, which made it more inconvenient
for her to attend the meetings of the Executive
Board than the other ladies, but had always
made it a point to come when it was possible,
and also to assist all in her power in every de-
partment of the labor to benefit the institutione
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt said that as far as she
was acquainted with the practical workings of
the hospital it was managed in the best interests
of the association and doing great good. That
the physicians connected with it acted upon the
hightest principles of skill and science, their
works assisted by faith. Being a young institu-
tion there were many disadvantages under
which those interested had labored.
	The motion was made to change the name of
the Finance Committee to Ways and Means
Committee, which was carried unanimously.
The Committee was authorized to act in behalf
of the association, in making arrangements for
the concerts to be given in the Tabernacle, on
the 24th of July, and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee was authorized to call to her aid such
other help as she needed for the work. The
several Canvassing Committees were honorably
discharged from further duty. After some re-
marks from two or three of the Ways and Means
Committee in reference to their special depart-
ment the meeting was adjourned for one year.


