THE RIGHI.
				ZURICH, Oct. 15th, 1882.
	A few hours rest, a few good-byes to the
pleasant friends we had met in Lucerne, and
we descended from our eyrie at Pension Suter,
"lingering and loth to depart."
	We had been waiting for the right day for
the Righi. Pilatus gave his assent-rather

[Column 2]
doubtfully, to be sure-but he had not given
any party a "good send off" for weeks. The
sun was shining, the air delicious, and we made
the most of his august permission-made our
last trip on Lake Lucerne, wondering anew at
its beauty.
	The Helvetia lands us at Vitznan. We ex-
amine our surroundings with no little interest
as we step on shore. We find the Righi to be
a group of mountains instead of a single one,
though to the traveler the name will generally
attach itself to the northern peak only. It was-
at first known as the "Righi Weid," or the 
pasture of the Righi. A little chapel of "Our
Lady" was erected here early in the seven-
teenth century for the use of the herdsman.
After that it was frequented by pilgrims. In
our own times it has grown greatly in favor
with tourists, and in 1873 the cog-wheel rail-
road to the Kulm was finished. The cars
themselves are not very unlike our open city
cars, except that each entrance is made more
safe by a low door. The engine is always be-
low the car, on either its up or down trip. We
examined its construction of train and road
and then committed ourselves to them without
trepidation. We were slowly lifted upward.
	The lake gradually sank below us as we
wound our singular way toward the clouds.
The higher we went the broader our view.
One mountain after another came in sight.
The dark old Burgenstock was the first to
make its appearance, rising from the opposite
bank; After that the Stauserhorn and Pilatus.
We cast many a parting look at Lucerne, away
in the distance, as we took this upward journey.
The Alps of Uri soon drew our attention.
Engleberg and the Bernese Oberland showed
us their glory as we went on. Then the
clouds wrapped themselves around us, lest we
were unable to endure so much at once.
	When we reached the highest station the fog
was so dense we were unable to see ten feet be-
yond us. Only a short distance below, the
views had been perfect. We knew the sun
was shining on the friends we had left in Lu-
cerne. Here on this mountain top we were cold
and damp-isolated from the world, it would
seem. We were not in the least disheartened.
We had watched this same mountain too often
to lose faith in it so soon. More than once
we had seen it put on a silver cap for afternoon
wear and afterward stand uncovered at the
setting of the sun.
	We let the train go down without us, and
groped around in the mist, and found on this
mountain peak friends whom we had not seen
in many months. We would be forearmed for
any possible change in the weather, so ordered
an early, simple meal. Delicious tea and
juicy, tender chops were served us here in the
clouds as daintily as we desired.
	The ascent had been made in less time than
we had expected and had not been as impres-
sive as that of Mt. Washington, which we had
accomplished some years before. We have
been told this railway has the steeper grade.
We doubt it, but we have no data by us to
verify our impression. We have here no such
sterile regions to pass over as we find in the
White Mountains. The softer features of this
landscape may take from the apparent height
of the different reaches of the grade. At all
events we are not so overawed as we were in
climbing our own giant.
	Many of those who came up when we did,
went back disheartened; our own faith had its
full reward. As the hour neared for the going
down of the sun we gathered our wraps about
us, and walked up through the damp, impene-
trable mists to the summit, only a short climb
above us. It seemed a forlorn hope that stimul-
lated us to make the effort, but the light did
appear to be stronger. How anxiously we
counted the minutes. Every few seconds one
or the other would say, "The clouds are break-


ing up." Then as we looked, it grew darker.
At last the sun! It was our supreme moment—
a moment in which hours seemed condensed.
Then the glory was withdrawn. Our eyes were
mortal. The clouds wrapped themselves close
about us; our senses grew acute, and we waited
as Moses might have waited at Pisgah. In-
visible hands parted the great curtains hung
round about us, and below us lay the promised
land; not all at once; a view here, which our
eyes drank in all eagerly, as the huge clouds
shut it out of sight again; then as this faded
out, our eyes would be drawn to a new vision
of beauty as the mists rolled themselves away
in some other direction. No words can tell the
rapid changes of that strange panorama, as we
stood and waited, spell-bound, for its unveiling.
Mountain and stream and valley lay like jewels
far below as it was given us to see them. Some-
times our eyes could follow the precipitous
sides of the mountain down to its very base,
where nestles Lake Lucerne—many-armed Lu-
cerne, with its natural battlements enfolding it
so securely, fastened our attention as the mists
were swept aside and we might look down into
its far-away depths. The almond trees were,
no doubt, blooming below, but they had dwin-
dled to tiny plants. So we watched and waited
for each coming picture. At last the clouds
settled, a shining mass not far below us, and the
silvery screen shut out the lower world. For
once we were above the earth, earthy, on this
mount of transfiguration. The clouds were
rolling beneath our feet, while the very heavens
seemed opening before us. As we looked, the
sunlight broke out clear and strong over the
snowy tops of the higher Alps, which were
gradually coming into sight. The Sentis in the
east was the first of its chain to rivet our atten-
tion. The Blaskenstock and the Uri Rothstock
exposed their glaciers; the Bernese Alps stood
up in their grandeur. We turned a longing
glance towards the Jungfrau and Pilatus. Then
the mountains were all swept away from us
again. Like Noah and the little group about
him we only seemed left of all God's children.
The sun was going down. No words can tell
what passed before our eyes in the minutes
which followed. The mists gathered in never
ending changes, to break up and roll back as
they advanced upon the sun, gyrating in un-
ceasing motion, of all imgained hues.

	And beneath us an ocean of mist, where our eye
	No longer the dwelling of man can espy,
	Through the parting clouds only the earth can be
		seen,
	Far down 'neath the vapor the meadows so green.

	All that was natural and familiar was at last
obscured. The changing lights and shades
gathered again and again, then broke and scat-
tered into fragments, as the greater glory of
the sun broke through their lesser light. "The 
heavens had declared the glory of God." As
the time passed on, great streaks of gleaming
gold and purple gathered in the western sky,
till at last the whole seemed one sea of gor-
geous light. Then the shadows darkened, and 
the vision faded.	RUTH RANDOM.
—Ex.


