LEAF, BUD AND FLOWER.

	What a beautiful subject, and what soul-
thrilling sentiments these simple words sug-
gest.
	"And thy young glories,—leaf and bud and flower,
	Change cometh over them with every hour."
These are the symbols too of earth-life and the
changes that are incident to mortality. So
frail is our hold on life that it is compared to
the flower that dies with the breath of the
summer wind. And yet how secure we some-
times feel, how unmindful of the frailty of hu-
man existence. Though life is full of sweet-
ness, of pleasures even, if we choose the sunny
side. If hope be our guide, and faith the
staff on which we lean, for we needs must have
support and strength or we fail, for even the
sun is sometimes sultry, or the sunshine of pros-
perity, and the heat is often as hard to bear as
the cold or the hard, cold winds of adveristy,
and unless we have faith in God we should
faint by the way. It is not strange to me that
faith is the first principle of true religion, and
indeed we may say it is the very essence of all
religion. When we believe in the reality of
our existence here and look forward, if we are
well armed with living faith, and wear the
shield of sincerity and the helmet of truth we
are ready for any emergency, any conflict
that may arise.
	Leaf and bud and bloom, these are the days
that recall these words, so full of melody and
sweetness. It is in leafy June, jocund, smiling
June that we feel more than ever the presence
of these precious blessings that contribute so
much to the sum of human happiness. What
beauty would there be in life without the
leaf—how would we subsist, and where would
be the completeness of the picture? The ten-

[Column 2]

der leaves, the green leaves, we cannot imag-
ine what summer would be, or what the land-
scape would be without them. They form the
shelter; they are the foilage, the dry, bare
branches would be useless without them, so
would our existence here be homely and un-
bearable without the lovely graces that adorn
human character and protect and shelter the
finer, purer attributes of the soul, that could
never be developed but under some modifying
influence. Sheltered and nurtured by the leaf
and dew, the tender bud is formed and warms
into activity and becomes in time a fair and
graceful thing, giving promise of fuller powers
as time advances, So the human heart, cher-
ished and nourished and stimulated by a high-
er power, working as unseen as that which dis-
penses growth to the tiny leaf and bud, devel-
ops into richness and bloom, and sheds a per-
fume in its full fruition as fragrant as that of
the sweetest rose and more potent than any of
the floral kingdom, for their influence is only
transitory, while that of human character
reaches into eternity, sweetness, gentleness,
charity, kindness and the beautiful at-
mosphere that pervades the highest and
loftiest characters, extending and affecting
those who come under its influence is so lovely
and exalting, that it is something indefinable
by mortal pen.
	Some of the most exquisite emotions of the
human soul have found expression in the atmos-
phere of flowers. Lessons of wisdom may be
learned in the open fields, where the Book of
Nature is opened wide. Lady Flora Hastings
has written some happy lines on this subject.
	"With holy awe I cull the opening flower,
	The hand of God hath made it and where'er
	The flow'ret blooms, there God is present also."
Well may we say that "flowers are holy things,"
and make them symbols of love, of sorrow and
of all the higher attributes, and holier emo-
of the soul.
	The summer, and June more especially,
seems adapted to poetic sentiment. The fresh-
ness of Spring has found its intensity in leafy
June. The water has become clearer, the sky
bluer, the light breeze touches gently the soft
fresh buds and leaflets, and the river winds its
way over the stones, keeping time and tune to
the murmuring trees. Under the branches of
the wide spreading elm, the graceful hemlock
or the shade of the fine beech trees lovers are
wont to find shelter from the piercing rays of
the summer sun; did I say lovers? Well, I
mean lovers of nature, lovers of poetry, and
all that as well, but yet methinks I have heard
too,or have read somewhere in story or in verse,
that when the landscape was beautiful it so en-
hanced the lovers that they clasped hands
and plighted their troth, and the same sweet
poet says, "Then I felt in my heart a new
desire to bring this mouth of mine nearer to
her mouth," but of course this is only in
story, I cannot say if it be real, and yet
why not. for surely June is classical and so is
love. The human heart reaches out after
warmth and tenderness and beauty, God hath
made it so and given us the powers of genu-
ine appreciation which we should cultivate,
and we may safely commune with nature and
grow wiser in a knowledge of the divinity
that forms and fashions and develops life in
all the germs with which the earth is impreg-
nated.	AUNT EM.


IN the EXPONENT of June 1st, under the
heading of Scenes in Nauvoo, etc. by Helen
Mar Whitney, the name of Samuel Brannan
was misprinted and read Branson. All the
early members of the Church would know ,be-
ing acquainted with him and his career, but as
his name has been mentioned of late in the 
Deseret News, it is well for all to know.


