PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]
	Whenever the priesthood of God is upon
the earth evil influences are strong in propor-
tion to the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.
Satan is ever on the alert, sly, watchful and
cunning as a serpent. If any duty is omitted,
or any extreme exists not wholly consistent
with the humility and complete obedience of
the doctrines of Christ, any weakness of the
flesh to which all men and women too are lia-
ble, Satan is there ready to step in. The won-
derful manifestations of the power of God as
evinced in the gift of prophecies and the heal-
ing of the sick in Winter Quarters, at the
time the Saints were remaining there for a lit-
tle season, must needs have a corresponding
opposite as powerful for evil as these were for
good. Sister Presendia, alluding to the sub-
ject, says, "The night after we had received
such, blessings at Sister Leonard's my sister Zina
came home with me. After we had retired for
the night we both felt the presence of the des-
troyer at the door, the feeling was beyond ex-
pression. Before morning Brother William
Pitt called me to go to his house, and said his
little girl was dying. I immediately arose, drest
myself, and repaired to the house where the
dying girl lay in the last agonies of death, be-
yond the reach of mortal aid. She died in a
few minutes on my lap." The mortality among
little children was very alarming, yet many
were healed almost as miracuously as being
raised from the dead.
	"Not many days after the circumstance just
mentioned a meeting was held at the house of
Christine and Frances Swan Kimball where
the evil power was again apparent; so strong
was the influence that the spirits were seen and
heard, and they tried to destroy those in the
room by choking them. Sister Laura Kim-
ball and I laid our hands upon five of those so
affected, and rebuked the destroyer in the
name of Jesus. This is one of the instances
wherein the words of the Prophet were ful-
filled, when he said at the time of the organi-
zation of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, "That
the Sisters should have power to cast out
devils, rebuke the powers of darkness and do
many wonderful things." The Sisters felt

[Column 2]

themselves much humbled in spirit, and feared
they had done something wrong that had
grieved the spirit of the Lord. The next day
I had occasion to visit Kanesville and was de-
tained there about a week. During my ab-
sence another meeting had been held at Sister
Vilate Kimball's, and the evil power manifest-
ed itself in various ways. The sisters not feeling
able to cope with the powers of darkness, sent
for Bishop Whitney, and no sooner had he
crossed the threshold than there was a dead
calm. Those who had been most affected with
this mysterious power sank down unable to rise
and seemingly plunged into excessive grief.
Bishop Whitney brought with him on this oc-
casion Elder William H. Kimball, eldest son
of Heber C. Kimball, and they laid their
hands on the afficted ones and rebuked the
powers of darkness and commanded them to de-
part. Bishop Whitney in speaking of it after-
wards said that the sisters were so near the ad-
ministration of angels that the devil stepped
in to hinder the blessings the Lord was willing
to pour out upon his handmaidens." There
were not many brethren left and the sisters
had to assist in many ways, both temporal and
spiritual. It was a time of loneliness, a time of
scarcity, but it was also a time never to be for-
gotten on account of the nearness to the Lord
in which the people lived and trusted.
	The experiences of the people as they jour-
neyed towards the land of promise, the place
of refuge, and sojourned here and there by
the way, for a little season, enduring fatigue,
privation and hardships, without homes, al-
most without shelter, deprived of the blessings
of comfortable food and clothing, can never be
written on the pages of history, except here a
little and there a little; but He who heareth
the young ravens cry, who watcheth the spar-
rows fall, and numbereth the hairs of the head,
has a perfect record kept in a higher court.
	To be Continued.


[Column 1]

