[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 44 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

We of the McGill Ward Seminary in the Nevada Stake of Zion wish to thank you for the serial story "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. In our seminary we are discussing temples, and this story concerning the building of the Kirtland Temple fits in very well. It added color and variety to our study of temples.
—LaVerl K. Harris
McGill, Nevada

I enjoy all the Magazine so very much, and another sister and I meet each week for our own "home Relief Society."
—Mrs. Mary Ann Kohfield
Norton, Kansas

The covers of the Magazine are simply beautiful. The January cover picture looks so real (Yosemite National Park, California), I can almost feel the snow. The first prize poem "The Other Mother," by Miranda Snow Walton, in the same issue is certainly thought provoking.
—Erma B. Braack
Raymond, Washington

I wish to express my appreciation for the Magazine. I enjoy taking a few minutes now and then to read a clean inspirational story. Many times I have gone to the public magazine racks for a magazine containing short stories, and I have come away empty-handed, and emptyhearted, so to say. I am a young mother with four children, and I do not have time to read book-length novels, but I do enjoy reading short stories during rest periods.
—Mrs. Maxine P. Done
San Jose, California

The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. The stories contain beautiful examples of right living.
—Magree G. Schaerr
Kanab, Utah

Recently we had shocking brush fires which encircled our city, and a national emergency was declared. After the fires had been raging for two days, the Red Cross society found that we keep a list of nursing sisters, and we were thrilled to be able to send some of our wonderful sisters to the rescue at very short notice. The Relief Society organization is truly wonderful, and I sometimes feel that we could say that we are prepared for any emergency. We certainly appreciate The Relief Society Magazine down here in Melbourne Stake.
—Mavis E. Cutts
President Melbourne Stake Relief Society
Victoria, Australia

I just have to tell you how much I enjoyed that fine, inspiring address by Elder Sterling W. Sill, "Where Your Treasure Is," in the March issue of the Magazine. Every member of our Church should read this address. I rejoice in the Magazine, which is published especially for the women of the Church. I feel with all my heart that it should reach every home. A good book is truly a lasting gift.
—Cora Daley
Snowville, Utah

I have never read a fiction story that could touch one's heart like the story "Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie!" (by Mabel Law Atkinson, March 1962). I don't believe a more beautiful story could be written. Such a true picture of a wonderful life.
—Mrs. Colleen L. Barnes
Naf, Idaho

A word of appreciation for the lovely serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). With its lofty theme and crisp style, it has the impact of poetry. Our Magazine is a fitting frame for such excellence.
—Evelyn Miller Sandberg
Ojai, California