[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: My | Author: Lam]
My Mother's Hands Esther H. Lamb ONIGHT,, after a trip of eight hundred miles, I am with my mother here in the house of my birth in which she is beginning her ninety-fifth year of wholesome living. From the comfort of her little rawhide-bottomed rocker, she received me with glad eyes and a smile of love. Her hands which must now content themselves with resting tidily in her lap are dearly familiar and _ work blessed. Her hands! They serve as a magic lens to bring to the screen of my memory vivid pictures of yesteryear. 'They alone have power to wind backward the film of life and make me ten years old again. All home with me are my brothers and sisters. It is Saturday evening. Snowflakes are pushing against our lace-curtained windowpanes in an effort to tuck us in protectively from the wind's cold breath. Our large, pleasant home has been cleaned with special care for the Sabbath day. The smell of Sunday's dinner, already prepared, is tantalizing, even though we have eaten supper and are relaxed cozily for a few last minutes before we go to our cold bedrooms to snuggle under mother's homemade quilts. We listen soberly to another chapter from Church history, read aloud by our father. Then, with some squirmings and attempted evasions, we submit to his attempts to check on our behavior of the day. As though he does not know! Page 352 The happiest moments come when he expresses pride in us and with stern kindness suggests ways of improvement. We draw closer to him as he takes the youngest of us on his lap, and with his stockinged feet tapping in accent, he sings for us songs of repetitious melody, coupled to lyrics many verses long, stories of delight or tragedy. Our mother's hands are busy, moving deftly as when she kneaded bread early in the morming. She kneels near the newspaper-protected hearth beside a long row of washed, high-topped shoes. We are proud owners of one pair each, and for Sunday meetings they must shine as shoes never shone before. Being mistress of this act, mother uses a curved-handled brush equipped with a pompon of bristles on one side. 'This she dips into spicy vinegar, then touches it lightly to the soot that clings in black flakes to the chimney throat, and applies it to each shoe. Now, with swift strokes from the opposite side of the brush, our shoes are shined to mirror smoothness. Though we know nothing about Who's Who in polttics, this vinegar and soot treatment is spoken of as Democratic Shoe ~ Blacking. I watch as mother places in the top of each pair of shoes, long, black, wool stockings her nimble fingers have knitted. Then, stitch upon stitch, with fascinating speed, she manipulated the shining needles that whispered in soothing rhythm. MY MOTHER'S HANDS The fre burns low. Our grotesque shadows on the wall blend with the night.... We are secure in this peaceful home. My evening in memory is finished. The film rolls forward identifying yesteryear with the present. Mother raises her hands to touch my cheek. Hands that have grown strong, then 353 old, from the tasks of pioneer days to this electronic age. Yet they must accept one more task — to lie patiently as she looks at her unused workbasket beside her chair, and wait. My mother's hands — in them God placed his most beautiful tool, service.