[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty  Years  Ago 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  May  1902 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
THE  SEVEN  RULES  OF  HARMONY:  1.  Make  the  sacred  spirit  of  peace  a 
Hving  power  in  your  life.  2.  Never  Hsten,  without  protest,  to  insinuations,  vitupera- 
tions, or  unjust  accusations  against  the  members  of  your  family  or  your  fellow-citizens. 
3.  Seek  to  understand   the  spirit  of   the   national  laws   and-  obey   those   which   exist. 
4.  Dedicate  your  thought  and  use  your  influence  to  develop  the  national  and  patriotic 
spirit.  ...  5.  Do  not  destroy  .  .  .  instead,  make  it  your  object  to  plant,  to  nourish.  .  .  . 
6.  Teach  your  children  and  your  dependents  what  you  may  learn  with  regard  to  justice 
and  peace.  ...  7.  Seek  each  day  to  utter  some  word,  or  to  perform  some  little  action 
which  will  promote  the  cause  of  peace,  whether  at  home  or  abroad. 
—  Selected 
LETTER  FROM  ST.  GEORGE:  My  counselors  and  myself,  of  the  Relief  Society, 
Sisters  Morris  and  Bleak  .  .  .  tra\eled  down  the  Virgin  River.  The  people  are  making 
homes  along  the  river,  settling  in  little  patches.  We  took  dinner  with  Sister  Bodilla 
M.  Johnson  at  her  home  a  few  miles  abo\e  Mosquito  Fat,  then  ^^•ent  on  to  the  town 
of  Mosquit  ...  we  met  with  the  members  of  Relief  Society,  and  a  number  of  brethren 
met  v\ith  us.  We  urged  the  sisters  to  live  their  religion,  store  grain,  take  care  of  the 
sick  and  afflicted,  provide  for  the  poor  and  needy  and  comfort  the  hearts  of  those 
that  are  called  upon  to  mourn,  to  teach  the  children  to  pray  from  infaacy,  and  they 
will  arise  and  call  them  blessed.   ... 
—  Ann  C.  Woodbury 
COURAGE 
Why  should  I  hug  life's  ills  with  cold  reserve, 
To  cure  myself  and  all  who  love  me?  Nay! 
A  thousand  times  more  good  than  I  deserve, 
God  gives  me  every  day. 
And  in  each  one  of  these  rebellious  tears 
Kept  bravely  back  he  makes  a  rainbow  shine. 
Grateful  I  take  his  slightest  gift,  no  fears 
Nor  doubts  are  mine.  .  .  . 
—  Celia  Thaxter 
FOUR  SCORE  YEARS:  A  happy  anniversary  celebration  was  commemorated  on 
Saturday,  May  3,  1902,  in  the  handsome  old  parlors  at  the  historic  Bee  Hive  House, 
the  occasion  being  the  eightieth  birthday  anniversary  of  Sister  Bathsheba  W.  Smith, 
one  of  the  most  noble  mothers  in  Israel  in  this  dispensation.  .  .  .  Sister  Smith  occupies 
.  .  .  the  highest  place  of  honor  among  the  Latter-day  Saint  women,  president  of  the 
Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  world.  It  is  therefore  most 
appropriate  her  name  should  be  known  among  our  people,  and  honors  accorded  her, 
befitting  the  position  she  holds.  .  .  . 
—  Editorial 
THE  WOMAN'S  EXPONENT:  If  the  sisters  could  realize  the  importance  of 
having  a  paper  of  their  own  and  the  prestige  it  gives  to  their  work,  sureh  thev  would 
bestir  themselves  to  obtain  subscriptions  .  .  .  and  better  supply  the  needs  of  the 
women  .  .  .  who  are  looking  for  light,  knowledge  and  wisdom.  ,  .  . 
—  Editorial 
Page  338