[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Hazel | Author: Young]
Hazel Sperry Love Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society HAZEL SPERRY LOVE HAzZet Sperry Love was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society March 7, 1962. She comes to her new position with a rich background of training and of service and leadership in the Church. Her faith, sincere testimony of the gospel, enthusiastic willingness and capacity for work are but a few of her outstanding qualifications. Sister Love was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, to William A. And Anna Eardley Sperry in a home where she was taught the principles of the gospel and to accept every opportunity which came to her to serve the Church. She was married to J. Leonard Love in the Salt Lake Temple on March 18, 1919, and has always supported and encouraged him in Church positions, as Bishop of Yalecrest Ward, member of the Church Welfare Committee, Mission President, and in his present position as a Reginal Supervisor of Stake Missions. 'Together, they created a beautiful spiritual home for their three children, Jay L., Richard S. And Joyce (Mrs. Spencer Jenson), all of whom were married in the temple. Sister Love brings a wealth of experience to her new assignment. She served as head of the Relief Society in the Northern California Mission when her husband presided over that Mission. She has worked diligently in all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church since she was a young girl. Her wonderful influence was felt by the young people as she served as an officer in the MIA. As a Relief Society worker, she was an outstanding visiting teacher for many years. She was a counselor and then president of the Relief Society in Yalecrest Ward, Bonneville Stake, and later served as first counselor in the stake presidency of Relief Society in Bonneville Stake. At the time of her call, she was a member of the Sunday School Board in Parleys Stake. Her rich experience, exceptional executive ability, plus her sincere testimony and genuine love for Relief Society will contribute added strength to the General Board. Page 32] 324 d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 ognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1962. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah.