[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: She]
She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part Il-Mercy Fielding Thompson Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting said to have been painted in Nauvoo, Illinois, by William Majors Page 326 _ than a half centurv. Dear little woman, Mrs. Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson, died at her home in the Sixteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, on September 15, 1893. She had lived a long and useful life. On the previous fifteenth day of June, she had observed her eighty-sixth birthday. The day after her death, the following appeared in the Deseret News: "Sister 'Thompson was widely known and highly esteemed among the Latter-day Saints, with whom she had been associated for more v. She was at the time of her demise, one of the eldest members of the Church, in connection with which her life had been one of faith and noble sacrifice. She was a sister to the mother of President Joseph F. Smith. Her husband, Robert B. 'Thompson, who was the secretary to the Prophet Joseph Smith, died at Nauvoo on August 27, 1841." It is not my purpose here to write a sketch of the life of Sister Thompson, but only to say that for a few brief years she had the rare privilege of an intimate personal acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with her gift of writing she recorded and published some of her experiences. In an article printed in_ the Juvenile Instructor in July 1893, she tells us that she was born in England in June 1807, and that, together SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH with her sister Mary, and her brother Joseph Fielding, she emigrated to Canada in 1832. At Toronto in 1836, she was converted to the Mormon religion, and baptized by Parley P. Pratt. The following year, with her sister and brother, she made her way to Kirtland, Ohio, the headquarters of the Church. And then she continues: "My first introduction to the Prophet Joseph Smith, was in May, 1837, at Kirtland, Ohio; and on the 4th of June, following, I again met him at Brother John Gaylard's house in Kirtland, where a small company of friends had gathered to witness the ceremony of my marriage to Robert B. Thompson, the Prophet performing the ceremony. "There were present on this occasion several of the I'welve Apostles with their wives, also the aged Patriarch Joseph Smith and_ his wife — father and mother of the Prophet —— and also my brother Joseph Fielding, and my sister Mary, who soon afterwards became. The wife of Hyrum Smith. "After the marriage ceremony was over we listened with joy and profit to the words of instruction and counsel which fell from the inspired lips of Joseph Smith, each word carrying to our hearts deeper and stronger convictions that we were listening to a mighty Prophet of God. "In February 1839, while Joseph and Hyrum Smith, with four other brethren were incarcerated in Liberty jail, I accompanied my sister Mary from Far West, to visit them. It would be beyond my power to describe my feelings when we were admitted into the jail by the keeper and the door was locked behind us. We could not help feeling a sense 327 MERCY FIELDING 'THOMPSON From a Portrait in Andrew Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. Said to be the only picture of Mrs. 'Thompson in existence of horror on realizing that we were locked up in that dark and dismal den, fit only for criminals of the deepest dye; but there we' beheld Joseph, the Prophet, the man chosen of God in the dispensation of the fullness of times to hold the keys. Of His kingdom on the earth, with power to bind and to loose as God should direct, confined in a loathsome prison for no other cause or reason than that he claimed to be inspired of God to establish His Church among men. There also we found his noble brother, Hyrum, who, I believe was not charged with any other crime than that of being a friend to his brother Joseph. The night was spent in fearful forebodings, owing to a false rumor having gone out that the prisoners contemplated making an attempt to escape, which greatly enraged the jailor and the guards. 328 NDER these circumstances we were constrained to _ bid adieu to the Prophet and his brethren, and hasten our departure from Liberty. My sister was in very delicate health, having with her her babe only three months old, whom his father then saw for the first time. (This "babe" became President Joseph F. Smith, the sixth President of the Church. ) "The next time I saw the Prophet was on his arrival at Quincy, IIlinois, after his almost miraculous escape from Missouri, with his fellow-prisoners, in April, 1839. Soon after this, arrangements were made for the Saints, who had been expelled from Missouri, to settle at Commerce, afterwards Nauvoo, where I became more intimately acquainted with the Prophet, in consequence of my husband being employed as his secretary, and to whom the Prophet became very much attached, so much so that one day he jocosely said to me, 'Sister Thompson, you must not feel bad towards me for keeping your husband away from you so much, for I am married to him'; they truly loved each other with fervent brotherly affection. "I have seen the Prophet under a great variety of circumstances, in public, in domestic and social life and in sacred places. "I have seen him as if carried away by the power of God beyond all mortal conception, when speaking to the Saints in their public gatherings; and in less public places I have heard him explaining to the brethren and sisters the glorious principles of the gospel, as no man could, except by prophetic power. "In a social gathering of the Saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 at the Bowery near the site of the Temple, I saw him rejoicing with the people, perfectly sociable and without reserve, occasionally uttering jokes for their amusement and moving upon the same plane with the humblest and poorest of his friends; to him there were no strangers and by all he was known as the Prophet and friend of humanity. "I saw him by the bed-side of Emma, his wife, in sickness, exhibiting all the solicitude and sympathy possible for the tenderest of hearts and the most affectionate of natures to feel. And by the death-bed of my beloved companion, I saw him stand in sorrow, reluctantly submitting to the decree of Providence, while the tears of love and sympathy freely flowed. Joseph took charge of the funeral ceremonies, strictly adhering to my husband's wish that there should be no military or other display at his burial as had been but a short time before on the occasion of the burial of Joseph's brother, Don Carlos, both having been officers in the legion. "Don Carlos died August 7, 1841, Joseph's little son, Don Carlos, died about August 18, now, Robert B. Thompson, his faithful secretary, on the 27th of the same month, so that Joseph could feel the import of the lines of Dr. Young addressed to death: "Thy shafts flew thrice and thrice my peace was slain.' "This indeed was a time of sorrow, but I can never forget the tender sympathy and brotherly kindness he ever showed toward me and my fatherless child. When riding with him and his wife Emma in their carriage, I have known him to alight and gather prairie flowers for my little girl. SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH "IT have been present at meetings of the Relief Society and heard him give directions and counsels to the sisters, calculated to inspire them to efforts which would lead to celestial glory and exaltation, and oh! How my heart rejoiced! '¢ A T another time — at a time never to be forgotten — I was present at a meeting when Joseph knelt down with the small congregation surrounding him, when every sentence he uttered seemed to convey to my mind, and to the minds of others present, the impression that this was our last meeting together — and so it was. "A few days after this he called at his brother Hyrum's to take leave of the family previous to their crossing the Mississippi River, intending to go west to the Rocky Mountains to seek out, if possible, a place of peace and safety for the Saints. His parting words to my sister Mary, as she wept at their going, were these: 'Sister Mary, don't feel bad, the Lord will take care of you, and He will deliver us, but I do not know how.' The two brothers then started to cross the river, not knowing whether they would ever see their homes again or not. But on account of the feelings expressed by some of the brethren, who should have been their truest friends, and by their 329 urgent request, sent after them, the brothers returned to Nauvoo the following day. Watching from a chamber window I saw them being rowed in a skiff across the river, until they landed, and walked up the river bank to Hyrum's house, where they both entered, Joseph seating himself, while Hyrum made some changes in his clothing, when they both went on to the Mansion. "Although I did not know that the brothers had returned home to be taken as 'lambs to the slaughter,' my feelings were indescribable, and the very air seemed burdened with sorrowful forebodings. "The awful scene at Carthage followed in a few days, and here all men must draw the veil, for until all the truth concerning these good men, and this black deed of their murderous foes, can be told and understood, the history of this time will not be written. But the day will come when God will speak, and the martyrs and their history shall be known. "T received my endowments by the directions of the Prophet Joseph, his wife Emma officiating in my case, and in his instructions to me at that time he said: "This will bring you out of darkness into marvelous light'" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 27, pp. 398-400). TRUE PROGRESS qpsce progress is to start with little, apparently unimportant things — determined to keep going — to do one's very best. "Be ye perfect." The goal, perfection, for his Son said, —Pauline M. Bell Hand to the Plow PART I — TICKET WICKET Ilene H. Kingsbury And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God (Luke 9:61-62). Jie splintered floor of the railway station echoed the footfalls of fugitive humanity. Such furtive glances as the emigrants were observed to chance from under their black hats were noted as momentary. It would seem that curiosity was not a virtue and that any evidence of it was to be denied these most recent ocean-wafted people. However, there is that fine margin of out of the ordinary thinkers in any crowd, and two boys of fifteen and seventeen cared not to disguise their interest in everything American. And this is what they saw: 'They noted the ticket wicket with cage dividers and wrought-iron severity. So many travelers had stood before this official fare window that the imprint of two shoes just a little bigger than average size was worn in the floor. In fact, one almost slid into place while cautiously asking directions, prices, and free information. The same _ indented wearing of wood was to be noted at the entrance and exit doors where the shifted weight of thousands had flowed into the station and worn to slivers the but once painted threshold. The benches of the station were fashioned after church pews; straight, Page 330 unbending, severe, uninviting. They, at least, were worn smooth from constant sliding on the surface by wide-backed European peasants and ovetloaded baskets, carpetbags, and cloth bundles whose four corners were tied to form a clutch knot. Under each bench was a light film of dust, a lint gently sifted there as it broke from swishing skirts and shawls and coats threadbare from unrelieved usage. Light glanced through the tall, many glassed windows. 'These were seen to be fly specked and rain trickled. This was in the traditionally unkempt appearance of public buildings where pride was noticeably absent. A_ giant heater, called a forge stove, sat in the middle of the station and obscured the view of the opposite side of the room. Depending on the season, the woodbox was either bursting with stove lengths or brown and bare. It was scarred and beseeched a coat of paint, or an armful of fuel to hide its lonely cavity. Along one side of the station was a row of benches which needed no sign of "For Men Only" to designate who should properly sit there; for, in a line directly in front, and at equally spaced intervals, one saw a platoon of spittoons at convenient striking distance from this obvious- HAND TO THE PLOW ly reserved male section of the station. Needless to say, no respectable lady would have been seen waiting there, though she might stand for hours, holding a babe in her arms, and have another clinging to her skirts. As this was midsummer, the doors of the station were propped open with scraps of railing, their 'T-shaped style lending itself to easy handling and their weight lending itself to utility as a doorstop. It was quite obvious that in winter the doors would be dragged open with the entrance of a newcomer, and hastily closed by him as petulant glances of shivering travelers were cast in his direction. This would no doubt keep the air warm, but no doubt stale. I was a hazard to walk about this place, for baggage rooms had not been invented, and personal accouterments were fearfully kept near the owners. 'This obviously meant that monstrous piles of trunks and boxes of cloth, carpet, leather, and basketry were placed adjacent to each family and never left unguarded for a moment. 'Teenage children were assigned this duty and were the only insurance against loss and _ theft. Depending upon the nationality of the emigrants, the "possibles" were colorful or drab, valuable or useless, secure or hazardous, each attesting private means and social status. It was not unusual for bird cages to perch atop a pile of bedding. Then, crouched in a comfortable blob of feather pillows, sound asleep with fist clutching the pet's abode, a little girl could be seen worn unconscious by emigration. Such blessed sleep was not for a 331 twelve-year-old who sat stolidly on a seaman's trunk and counted over and over the number of bundles, sacks, boxes, and containers which represented the entire wardrobe of her family. 'To lose even one bulky item presaged disaster. Often one saw a pair of children taking turns walking around and around their family belongings in a sort of restricted exercise. Or perhaps they took turns at it while the other ran beyond the doorway to peer up and down the platform. A brave one might even dart beyond that safety island to place his ear on the rails to hear if a train was coming a long way off. If trains were delayed — no business schedule being guaranteed — it was possible for families to sleep among their accumulated possessions, thus saving expenditures for a room. 'This also permitted the excuse to eat in the station. The one lunchroom, a built on afterthought sort of thing, was not large enough to accommodate more than a score of famished men who shouldered their way to standing bar counters for a swig of something hot and filling. 'There were two odors here, beans and tobacco. Either of these, or a commingling of both, sickened most emigrants. 'They then organized themselves to send responsible members out into the town to buy loaves of varicolored and_ varitextured bread, a pail of milk, a few apples, if in season, or if fortune favored them, even a cooked hen or pork side. The miscellany was brought into the waiting room, spread about the tops of trunks and boxes and the family served in careful portions by the mistress of the community, the mother. 332 T could be noted that never, never was all the food eaten at one meal. 'Though hunger was said to be consuming, the gangling sons who at home ate like the cows, as they sometimes said, times and places were different now. Almost niggardly portions were doled out and always some saved for the next meal, just in case more could not be found. 'This precious conservation of a biscuit or two was a learned fetish with most emigrants. No one believed this was a sign of stinginess, but of foresight for the very young, the ailing, and the aged. A little crust became a comfort to teething infants and was not missed by more husky children. It was in this setting that Welsh Eddie, his mother, two little sisters, and two brothers could have been discovered that summer of 1864. The geographical location was a bit out of Philadelphia, U. S. A., and was one of a series already explored and acquainted with and was to be continued as a series west and on west as far as the tracks were laid. And as long as one knew life was not to be permanently lived in this unpainted frame station and the promised land would eventually unfold and welcome them and sustain them in comfort and plenty, what was this temporary crowding, smell, ceaseless vigilance to cause bother? The emigrant mother, who was a widow, having counted, fed, admonished, and otherwise cared for her little flock, straightened her shawl, fluffed out the ruffled lace cap which covered her hair under her tall-crowned, black Welsh hat, and resolutely approached the ticket wicket. She had timed her approach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 so that no moment would be wasted waiting a turn. Her feet easily slid into the precarved groove of a thousand shoes, each as resolute as her own to keep on the march to a new life in this land long dreamed. The ticket agent glanced at her, and with clairvoyance reserved for public servants, threw aside formalities, got the destination and number of travelers out of her, and with flood intensity took over the scene. "Listen, lady, if you and your five children are going out West, and want to ride the trains as far as St. Joe, on the Missouri, and then catch a wagon train from there, why are you so worried about a little town in Pennsylvania that no one ever heard of and you don't even intend to get off and see?" HE station agent, as he adjusted his black gauntlet wrist protectors, certainly left but one answer. And why, indeed? But before the emigrant could assemble her Welsh words and reassemble them into Yankee of the Americas, the agent stampeded his ideas in front of him. "And if I were you, lady, I wouldn't get off the train, either, what with the war in its fourth year, and the battle line swinging up and down the map like a bull whip over stubborn oxen. Why, one can't be sure from one stop to another that the train will not be invaded by soldiers, ours or the rebels, and you'd find yourself and the young ones sleeping on a ditch bank. Now, you certainly wouldn't want that. If I were you I would get on any old train that had a good cooking stove in it, just so it was headed West, and I'd stay on HAND TO THE PLOW just as long as the tracks were laid in my direction." The word direction gave the emigrant an idea. "Sir, do you have a map of the trains to the West?" At that the agent fairly shrieked in derision. "Listen, lady, this isn't a big settled country, that is not yet, and only the generals have the maps, and mighty poor ones they are, too. Once I tried to make myself a map of the railroads from New York, through Philadelphia, through Pittsburgh, and on over to the Mississippi. Do you know what it all looked like? Just an old maple leaf with the in-between parts decayed away and the meaty veins left running every which way. "If the stem was placed near Castle Gardens, the longest vein would point right across the country and end in St. Joe. Most trains shuttled about before you got over the mountains to Pittsburgh, and the scarce ones thinned out until only a couple of long scraggly ones got to the Mississippi river, and then one branch line dared to build out to where the trails of the prairie left the Missouri. Guess I didn't need a map after drawing that one. It's pretty simple. All one has to do is 333 ask where you are at each station, get on the next train heading West, and in about a half a month, there you ll be in St. Joe." "Then [Il take a ticket for my family right on to the end of your veined leaf," decided the emigrant. "Oh, no you won't. Why, lady, at least five companies have to sell you fares between here and the West. Why, even their cars don't look alike inside, let alone the tracks they roll on. Seems to me I heard one soldier say that sometimes the tracks are on a wide gauge, sometimes on a narrow one, and again on one of a completely individual width. You can't expect trains to roll along at that rate. Change the passengers, charge a new fare. Anyway, I hope you reach the big rivers before the soldiers get all the cars run to the battles. If you missed them, you would be left roaming, on foot, say in Ohio or Indiana. Of course, if you get beyond those wild places, then Illinois and Missouri might be reached. My bet is that an ox team is surer and safer than any steam engine hereabouts." (To be continued ) Treetops Celia Luce ae full fury of the wind hits the top of the tree. The rain beats down on the topmost branches, and, in winter, snow bends them down. There. But it is at the treetop that the sun shines brightest, and the rosiest fruit grows The growing tips of the branches may point toward God's blue sky. Safe, inner branches wither away and die. The Oatmeal Box Violet Nimmo I gga morning as I prepared my child's breakfast of oatmeal, eggs, fruit, and milk, I had come to the bottom of the oatmeal box. I had a strange feeling of guilt as I tossed the empty box into the waste basket. I retrieved the box and while the little Quaker man smiled at me, I was reminiscing about my childhood and a wonderful nostalgia hit me like the crisp winter air. I said aloud to myself, "This wonderful oatmeal box." I received a look from my son that said, "Are you daydreaming again, Mother?" My thoughts went back to the golden days when I sat and ate a breakfast of oatmeal, questioning my mother's daydreams. I reflected that when I was a child we had an infinite variety of uses for the empty oatmeal box. I could visualize a decorative arrangement of dry plant material, with its sculpturesque beauty, like that which was placed in the center of our old-fashioned round table. We would come home from school and look into the cupboard for the oatmeal box. It contained some spicy ginger snaps or crisp sugar cookies with small misshapen lumps of hard sugar that had forgotten to melt, or perhaps, one held some rich brown doughnuts, all of which our mother lovingly baked for us. Now I was pedaling my bicycle to the old farm where I purchased a box of brown eggs, always receiving an extra one or two, or a midget egg the kindly farmer's wife gave me for myself. Perhaps she would treat me to a glass of buttermilk and a piece of pie before returning home. I remember one time I had an accident on the bicycle and dropped the eggs, which were all broken. Afraid to go home, I returned to the farm and offered my services as a helper to pay for another box of eggs. Yes, she saved oatmeal boxes, too, and I was sent happily on my way with a new order of eggs, only in a box of a different brand. I could see the loaded shelves in our old cave cellar, holding the dried peas, beans, and popcorn which were stored for winter, and the boxes of seeds my father saved from the most choice fruits and flowers to be planted the following year. I saw the tomato and cabbage plants carefully being transplanted from the box to the garden. There was the shelf that held decorated oatmeal boxes, with each child's name printed across the top, where we kept our clean stockings, all rolled up neatly. There were waste baskets we made from them to hold our trimmings of paper while cutting pictures from magazines or pretty greeting cards, or to hold small toys such as tinker toys and blocks. Even nails, screws, and hinges were saved and placed in the boxes for repairing objects about the house. The oatmeal box also had its use as a darning basket. Our mother would sit in the evening and mend our stockings and tell us stories, or she would keep a box for buttons or a thread container. As my son kissed me boodbye and left for school, I carefully placed the oatmeal box with the smiling Quaker man on the shelf in my cupboard. Perhaps I would make some old-fashioned sugar cookies for him this morning. But how did my mother get those yummy little chunks of hard sugar on the top? Page 334 A DOG AND HIS MAID Shirley Sargent Y home is a forested area M adjacent to Yosemite National Park where I have well water, and hot and cold running mosquitoes. My typewriter, record player, and young, old-maid self have lived a happy, carefree, pine-needle life here until this summer. In late June, a summer ranger friend asked if I would dog-sit with a Dachshund belonging to another seasonal ranger who had come from Oklahoma with his dog, not knowing dogs were not allowed in the park. "No," I answered violently. "A dog has to be fed and watered, curried, and carried. I come and go too much. Absolutely not." "But it would onlv be for two months, and a dog would be good company." Unfeelingly, I interrupted, "Tim here is all the company I need and he can feed himself." Mv dear friend's fourteen-year-old visiting son looked disturbed, not amused. The ranger expostulated, "How can you be so selfish? Kennel life would be sickening for Fritz and his owners. 'The youngest boy cried himself to sleep last night." "Tough," I said heartlessly. Pi prize my independence." At this stony moment, big-eyed, dog-loving Tim began to beg and plead that, while he was around, he would do everything — feed, water, chase, quiet, and bathe Fritz — so that I would have neither care nor complaint. My ranger friend hastened my ungracious capitulation by adding, "Fritz's mistress says she'll be glad to do your washing and ironing in exchange for the dog's board." That did it. The well was low, the nearest laundromat twelve mountain miles away, and I detested ironing. RITZ came, and both he and I complained vociferously for two davs. I didn't like his whimpering, his cold, wet nose, or his barking. He hated his leash, being away from his loving family, and the cold nights in our outdoor "dorm." Poor Tim bore up bravely under my scathing I-told-you-so's and Fritz's heartbroken cries until two AM. When he quieted the dog's shivering and lonesomeness by shoving him down in his sleeping bag. My objections to this unclean bedmate were blotted out bv the blessed quiet. The next: morning I tried to look at the dog objectively. He was a compact, muscled, brown bundle of nervous energy with pretty markings and soulful brown eves. He was so short, the wild daisies hid him and so nervously brave he barked at falling pine cones. Tim showed me proudly that Fritz would sit and beg, but this didn't impress me in view of the time he spent on the couch and beds. He was a spoiled, beloved dog, and losing his family was, obviously, a traumatic experience. Most of the day he whimpered to Page 335 336 go out and, once there, cried to be off his leash. Even Tim seemed disenchanted by his charge, and I thought vainly of ways to rid myself of the pest. Unexpectedly and dismayingly, that was accomplished when I opened the back door in answer to a friend's hail and out shot Fritz. Tim and I spent a hot, breezeless afternoon looking for the escapee. Gnats buzzed, dust rose, tempers heightened, and echoes of futile calls were our only accomplishment. 'Tim worried about Fritz being thirsty, tired, chased by bears, bitten by a snake, and irretrievably lost. More selfishly, I fretted about what his ranger family would sav and feel and lamented how short-lived would be my vacation from ironing. Toward evening, a panting, dusty Fritz dragged in, gulped water, nuzzled Tim, and fell heavily asleep under, not on, the couch. After that, there was no more whimpering, running away, or need fora leash. Fritz was 'Tim's shadow. I had as little to do with him as possible, but was amused at the way his ears flopped as he ran and the way he bounced over the mountainside. Tim taught him not to jump on the beds, but he was still a pest. He cried so we couldn't—or, rather, Tim wouldn't—leave him home alone. In the car, he climbed over and on us and, of course, while we shopped or went sightseeing in Yosemite Valley, he had to be restrained by a leash — a calamity which he bore with the equanimity of a caged bear. Still, his mistress was doing our washing and ironing and supplying the smelly, dog food with so many compliments on our stewardship, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 felt as if I were the "Good Neighbor" of 1962. HEN came the day Tim left for home and the whimpering routine began again. I had to see that Fritz had food and water and tried angrily to quiet his barking when friends came to see me. He seemed to realize he was the man of the house and protected me fiercely, if misguided, by barking, growling fairly menacingly, and pawing the ground so that dirt and pine needles flew all over the paths. He followed me everywhere. In the mornings, he greeted me as if he hadn't seen me in days — jumping on me, wiggling, and nuzzling my hands. It was flattering and I knew I had made the team with Fritz. One afternoon, he scurried out from under the couch in obvious distress and tried his best to make it outside before he was sick. He missed, but looked so abject and mournful that I heard myself saving, "That's all right, honey. You couldn't help it." Honey! Fritz had made the team with me. T remained utterly adamant at having him in or on my bed, or talking baby talk to him, but when he stood and begged for loving, I gave it to him and, when I shivered out of my swim in the river, his warm, lovable body felt good. Occasionally, I submitted to his licking; often I played with him, and frequently I talked to him. Our "lovematch" continued until summers end when Fritz left with his real family. My prized independence is inviolate again. The only responsibil- A DOG AND HIS MAID ity I have is for myself and a huge pile of ironing. Happy, carefree, independent? Sure, that's I, but I miss the ecstatic morning loving, the floppy ears, yours-but-to-command eyes, 337 and faithful shadow of Fritz. 'Thanks to him, now there is room in my part of the woods, under my bed, and in my heart for a dog that will belong to me, not just summers, but all seasons of the year. Sonnet for a Somber Day Evalyn Miller Sandberg A morning sky is overcast with gray, And ivy-festooned oaks blend ash with green, While on their boughs dark crows in silence sway, Subdued by seeming imminence of rain. A legendary chief on yonder peak Is blanketed with fog and hovering cloud; The timberline my eyes habitually seek, And foothills, too, now lie beneath a shroud. This quiet setting cradles roof and wall, Displays a house as jewels held to light; And here, in warmth and safety, within call, Are those I love, and much that gives delight. My little kitchen, done in tangerine Seems, on this day, especially serene. Keep Dreaming Nancy M. Armstrong oye ss were never meant to die unused, though time and changing needs must sometimes alter them. A dream is the budding of accomplishment. To relinquish it is to forsake an uncompleted task. And to stop dreaming is to lose the motivation for radiant living. Dreams that are pursued keep enthusiasm alive, enlarge our horizons, increase our capacity for the success we desire. They keep us aware, not only of what we desire to achieve, but of what we ought to strive to achieve. Keep Dreaming! e I I Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE SEVEN RULES OF HARMONY: 1. Make the sacred spirit of peace a living power in your life. 2. Never listen, without protest, to insinuations, vituperations, or unjust accusations against the members of your family or your fellow-citizens. 3. Seek to understand the spint of the national laws and: obey those which exist. 4. Dedicate your thought and use your influence to develop the national and patriotic spirit. 5. Do not destroy... Instead, make it your object to plant, to nourish.... 6. Teach your children and your dependents what you may learn with regard to justice and peace. 7. Seek each day to utter some word, or to perform some little action which will promote the cause of peace, whether at home or abroad. — Selected LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE: My counselors and myself, of the Relief Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak... Traveled down the Virgin River. The people are making homes along the river, settling in little patches. We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M. Johnson at her home a few miles above Mosquito Fat, then went on to the town of Mosquit... We met with the members of Relief Society, and a number of brethren met with us. We urged the sisters to live their religion, store grain, take care of the sick and afflicted, provide for the poor and needy and comfort the hearts of those that are called upon to mourn, to teach the children to pray from imfamey, and they will arise and call them blessed.. — Ann C. Woodbury COURAGE Why should I hug life's ills with cold reserve, To cure myself and all who love me? Nay! A thousand times more good than I deserve, God gives me every day. And in each one of these rebellious tears Kept bravely back he makes a rainbow shine, Grateful I take his slightest gift, no fears Nor doubts are mine. — Celia Thaxter FOUR SCORE YEARS: A happy anniversary celebration was commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902, in the handsome old parlors at the historic Bee Hive House, the occasion being the eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most noble mothers in Israel in this dispensation.... Sister Smith occupies. The highest place of honor among the Latter-day Saint women, president of the Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day Saints in all the world. It is therefore most appropriate her name should be known among our people, and honors accorded her, befitting the position she holds. — Editorial THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: I If the sisters could realize the importance of having a paper of their own and the prestige it gives to their work, surely they would bestir themselves to obtain subscriptions... And better supply the needs of the women... Who are looking for light, knowledge and wisdom....