BY A. B. C'S

	[A Lecture delivered at Manti, Dec. 6th, '89,
before the W. S. A.]
	Mrs. President—Ladies — In the earlier
chapters of the Bible when men lived more in
consonance with God's holy laws, we find a 
greater number of women mentioned than we
do in the later centuries, as I perceive, men
arrogated more to themselves, until finally—in
the middle ages, woman, was regulated to the
lowest and most disagreeable tasks; being
treated little better than a mere  beast of
burden.
	The very first woman of whom we hear any
account in Holy writ. was a woman named
Eve; and although Adam may have been uni-
formly kind and considerate, allowing her
great privileges, which we are morally certain
he did—or she never would have been left so
much in the society of the "Tempter."
	Modern women might have complained of
neglect, be it to her credit I never heard that
she did.  But, judging her by myself, and we
are told that self judgment is a righteous one,
I opine that, discontentment was her chief
characteristic.  And who among her descend-
ants at the present day can attach blame?
Doomed as she was to wander, for untold
centuries, within the precincts of that cele-
brated garden, separated from all female com-
panions, with whom she was wont to associate 
in her former high estate, and whom she doubt-
less loved with all the ardor of her pure and af-
fectionate nature, permitted only the com-
panionship of Adam (if we except the Serpent)
and if I am allowed to judge Adam by most men
of my acquaintance, he was probably very in-
different company, as men’s conversational
brilliancy is seldom exerted to any consider-
able extent for the benefit or entertainment of
a wife.
	Deprived also of a woman's crowning glory,
comfort, joy, and motherhood!  Who I ask can
blame her for being discontent, and desiring
a change in her monotonous existence? even
though that change included Death!
	The interesting family of Lot should next
occupy our attention, and much might be said
on the inquisitive propensities of Lot's wife,
who like Fatima in the castle of Blue Beard
must indulge just one peep in the forbidden
regions—the consequence in both cases result-
ing in much general good, though apparently
disastrous to the chief actresses at the time.
	We will next notice Sarah, the wife of
Abraham, who must certainly have been a wo-
man after God's own heart, and one also whom 
He delighted to honor.  We quote "Where-
fore she said unto Abraham. “Cast out this
bond-woman and her son.” And the thing
was grievous to Abraham and he carried the
matter to the Supreme Court; and we read
that “God said unto Abraham, in all that Sarah
hath, said unto thee hearken unto her voice."
	I wish family quarrels, in these days could 
be disposed of in the same manner."  (Ap
plause).
	With your permission ladies we will now
follow poor Hagar in her wanderings in the
desert.  "And Abraham rose up early in th

[column 2]

morning and took bread and a bottle of water,
(putting it on her shoulder) and gave it unto
Hagar and the lad and sent them away."
"And she departed  and wandered in the
wilderness of Beersheba." "And the water
was 'spent' in the bottle, and Hagar was lost
in the desert, and Ishmael was dying of thirst!
With swollen tongue, eyes almost bursting 
from their sockets, panting and struggling for
breath, he sank upon the burning sands of
the desert.  The wretched and abandoned
Hagar could endure to look upon his sufferings
no longer, so placing his head under one of
the stunted desert shrubs, to obtain the benefit
of the meagre shade it afforded—"She went as
it were, a bow shot off, and sat down, and
lifted up her voice and wept."
	Oh! that terrible, agonizing wail of despair,
rending a mother’s heart. 
	Lost! Lost in the wilderness! driven from
home by Sarah, by Abraham, the father of her
child, and by her Heavenly Father. Deserted
by God and man, and perishing in the desert.
I do not say she did not merit the terrible
agony of that hour, but many times, we at the
present day, feel that our punishment is greater
than we can bear.
	Abraham must have taught Ishmael to pray,
for aroused by his mother's cries of distress,
we read that "God heard the voice of the lad,"
and the angel of God called to Hagar out of
heaven, and said unto her "Hagar what aileth
thee? fear not! arise! lift up the lad in thine
hand, for I will make him" &c. And God
opened her eyes and she saw a well of pure
water and she went and filled her bottle and
gave the lad drink, he revived, and they con-
tinued their journey, and he became the father
of a great nation whose hand, to-day, is against
every man and every man's hand against him.
The fierce Bedouin of Arabia.
	We will now take a glance at that sweetest,
meekest, and most dutiful maidens, who
was so ready to become the wife of Isaac.
Ere long we perceive the lady in possession
and developing a will of her own, and events
plainly prove that God not only acknowledged
approved, and honored that will, but relied
upon her fine powers of discretion, and dis-
cernment of character, as she, with all a
mother's love and keen powers of perception
knew that her darling Esau, her first born, with
his wild roving habits, his generous and brave,
but hasty, passionate and cruel temperament,
was not as competent to become the father of
a wise, enlightened and progressive people, as
the more thoughtful, dutiful son; the son that
would accept counsel of his mother—and that
mother remember was a woman—and so, al-
though she was compelled (through the ob-
stinacy of Isaac) to resort to stratagem to ob-
tain it, she gained the first blessing for Jacob,
and as women usually are she was right.  If
you are unconvinced of this read the history
of the two people, the Israelites and the
Edomites, the latter being a cruel, revengful
people, as witness for instance, Herodias, the
step-daughter of Herod Antipus, the latter
dancing for him, then demanding and receiv-
ing in return, at his hands, the head of John
the Baptist, on a charger.  I think even the
men, who claim so loudly against woman's
rights would scarcely relish association with
the Edomites, if Herodias and her daughter 
are a fair sample of the female descendants of
Esan.  Imbueing her hands without cause in
the blood of an innocent man, and that man
a Prophet of the living God! the time and
place a banquet! I can admire the heroism of
women in times of war when the finer in-
stincts and feelings are swallowed up for the
time, in the excitement and anxiety for the
safety of their kindred and country. But 
the cold blooded murderers! O horror! she
sickens my soul!
	If you admire modesty and retirement in a
woman who fully understood, realized and ap-


[Column 1]

preciated all her rights, turn with me to the
inspired prophetess who dwelt “under a palm
tree between Ramak and Bethel in Mount
Ephriam, and judged Israel at that time, and
the children of Israel came up to her for judg-
ment.”
	When the country was invaded by Jabin’s
army under command of that successful and
skillful general, the famous Sisera, she sent
for Barak, to take command of the hosts of
Israel.  But the faint-hearted Barak said unto
her “if thou wilt go with me I will go, but if
thou wilt not go with me I will not go.“ She
answered “I will surely go with thee, notwith-
standing the journey thou takest shall not be
for thine honor, for the Lord shall sell Sisera
into the hands of a woman.” And Barak went
up with ten thousand men at his feet, and
Deborah went up with him.  Then we read the
description of a terrible battle and of the en-
tire rout of Sisera's army, and how Sisera in
attempting to make good his escape on foot
feel into the tender mercies of a woman who
could perform deeds of valor for the liberties 
of the nation if not for her own individual
rights.  We read "Howbeit Sisera fled away
on his feet and came to the tent of Jael the
wife of Heber the Kenite."  And Jael went
out to meet Sisera and said unto him, "Turn
in my lord turn in unto me, fear not," and he
after many warnings of precaution went into
the tent and she “covered him with a mantle.”
Then when he had “fallen asleep from weari-
ness,” Jael, Heber’s wife took a nail from the
tent, and took a hammer in her hand and
went softly unto him, and smote the nail into
his temple and fastened it to the ground.”
Then follows the sweet song of Deborah, which
for vividness of description is unsurpassed,
permit me to recommend it for your careful
perusal ladies; I will quote a few sentences, the
sentiment of which my heart echoes.  "The in-
habitants of the villages ceased, they ceased
in Israel until I, Deborah arose, I arose a
mother in Israel.  My heart is toward the
governors of Israel, that offered themselves
willingly among the people, bless ye the Lord.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of
Heber the Kenite be; blessed shall she be above
women in the tent.  He asked for water and
she gave him milk, she brought forth butter
in a lordly dish.”
	"She smote off his head when she had
pierced and stricken through his temples.”
	We find also in Holy writ, a most forcible
and brilliant example of what women can do,
towards securing and maintaining their “equal
rights” with man, by the undaunted and coura-
geous manner in which the five daughters of
Gelophahad stood by the door of the Taber-
nacle before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and all
the congregation, demanding their rights of
inheritance; saying, “our father died in the
wilderness; and he was not in the company of
Korah, that gathered themselves together
against the Lord, but died and had no sons.
Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he had
no sons? "Give unto us therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father!"
	This importunate demand appears to have
somewhat discomfited the great Israelitish law-
giver; he was completely nonplussed by a
family of young and beautiful, but determined
and dauntless girls.  Moses knew not what to
do until, as the good book tells us, "He
brought the cause before the Lord."	
	"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying
The daughters of Gelophahad, speak right."
And commanded an inheritance be given them.
Thus a precedent was established which was
ever afterward regarded as a law in Israel. 
	Now I dare venture to assert if Malah,
Hogleh, Noah, Milcah and Tirzah, had lived
in these days, and had dared to assert their
claims before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and

[Column 2]

all the congregation. before the door of the 
Tabernacle; men would have sneered and said,
"attend to household duties," "strong minded,"
"clamoring for their rights" "Unsexing them-
selves," "out of their sphere" &c.

		"Woman's 'sphere' is bounded only
			By the talents God has given,
		And her duty lies wherever
			Earth can be made more like heaven."

	Now Mrs. President and Ladies we do not
lack material for lectures so long as there
still remains in the Bible unmentioned by us
such characters as Miriam; Ruth, Naomi,
Vashti, Esther, Susannah, Judith, and the wo-
man who was the mother of seven sons, with
hosts of others both in the Old and New Testa-
ments.
