OF UTAH COURTS.

     My thoughts I persume have been similar to
many others upon the singular, though not in the
least surprising, decision of Judge Anderson
against the "Mormons" who are "in good stand-
ing."
     The next "monstrous measure" being ahead of
the infamous Idaho test oath is only another mani-
festation of their folly.  Their weakness is never
more visible than when undertaking to handle
the "Mormon" question.  The feebleness of their
understanding concerning its doctrines and prin-
ciples, as shown by those sitting upon the judg-
ment seat, and the aims of the people upon whom
they have passed judgment is truly pitiful; and
they appear ludicrous to those who are versed in
the things of which they show such ignorance
really it makes one smile, particularly in the high
toned, and would be autocrats who are anxiously
looking for the downfall of the "Mormon" church.
It would be well for the devout students, and 
teachers of Bible lore, whose superior knowledge,

[column 2]

virtue, and godliness leads them into the humane
act of "religious persecution," instead of spend-
ing so much precious time in trying to pervert the
fulfillment of God's Holy mandates, to read up
the scriptures, and also to post themselves on
"Mormon" history, with the gathering of Israel in
the last days.  Concerning it said the prophet
Isaiah: "Fear not, for I am with thee; I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather them
from the west; I will say to the north give up; and
to the south keep not back; bring my sons from
far, and my daughters from the ends of the
earth."  "Mormonism is being disseminated by
the cries and reports of our enemies a thousand
times faster than it could be otherwise, for they
will go where "Mormon" missionaries are not
able at present to gain access.  Could they but
realize this and their own position with the cer-
tain failure of their schemes they would be utterly
chagrined.
     I was forcibly struck with the resemblance be-
tween the words of Judge Anderson in his final
decision against the naturalization of "Mormons"
"in good standing," and those of the Jews when
accusing and condemning the Savior with His
teachings.  They deemed them sacrilege, and
accused Him of being a deceiver, a wine-bibber,
of having a devil, and all manner of accusations
were laid at His door.  And when He said "If ye
were Abraham's children ye would do the works
of Abraham," they reviled Him saying, "We
know that God spake unto Moses; as for this
fellow, we know not from whence he is?" It
seems that His words were misunderstood, and
misconstrued just as are those of His servants to-
day.  Though their teachings are but scriptural
doctrines, taught in the Holy record which
Christian professors hold up as the only guide to
eternal life, they condemn them as if originating
from other sources, and their own ignorance of the
spirit and meaning of the scriptures is made mani-
fest.
     They have in seeking to do an evil brought into
public notice many a sacred and lasting truth
which, like gold however much it is trampled
upon will live, and polished or unpolished will cut
its way and accomplish its destiny.  Satan was
never noted for wisdom, and his armor-bearers
like himself never fail to overshoot the mark.
     Will there be found no beam in the eyes of the 
Christian advocates of persecution, the instigaters 
and makers of more stringent laws against the 
"Mormons" that they will need no mercy shown
them?  Are the crimes and iniquities laid at our
door so much greater than those in other cities
from whence comes the VAN who vaunt of their
advanced civilization the "chaste and pure" who
fear(?) contamination if the dreadful "Mormons"
are allowed an existence upon mother earth?  Not
if their own journals speak the truth.  Were all
their sins of criminal nature, degradation and
lawlessness gathered and laid open for the inspec-
tion of this delectable Judge—who, of course has
but their welfare in view, there could be no com-
parison between the condition of the ill-famed
"Mormons" and that of society outside.  When
one sided and warped officials can occupy the 
judgment seat, who will sustain those who
practice trickery and corruption, reserving the
punishment due such to be heaped upon the 
victims of their wrath, against whom the most
mischievous of falsehoods are propogated and
sent adrift to stir up prejudice.
     Some of these apostate traducers of the dead
and the living have times innumerable volun-
tarilly borne witness to the truth and godliness
of "Mormonism."  Then to turn and deny, and
declare it to be false is proof of the value to be
placed in their word, as they must at one time
or the other have testified falsely, and therefore
their testimony would not have been accepted in
an honorable court.
     Cowards will fly their colors at the approach of

[column 3]

danger, and they are to be pitied.  But for loyalty
and reverence to the laws of this land, and its
emblem of freedom to all nations, there is no
blemish upon the roll of "Mormon" history.
     We of all others have the greatest cause to love
and cling to the Constitution that was formed under
Divine inspiration, and the land endeared to us
by a thousand fond recollections and of which we
have an ancient record that it is the "land of
promise" on which Zion is to be built up, "the
church of the first born," which cannot be des-
troyed though the whole universe is arrayed
against it.  This faith is only strengthened by op-
position.  The obstacles that have been met, and
surmounted, and the things that are being wit-
nessed to day is adding to it and driving the
people together.
     The judgments were to commence at the house 
of the Lord, and Latter-day Saints can bear wit-
ness to the fact that they were the first to suffer
from mobs in the United States, they burned their
houses, robbed, drove, murdered, and committed
the most fiendish, inhuman acts, not only upon
men, but delicate, helpless women and children,
to which I and others, who are living martyrs for
the truth can testify, and to the scenes of suffer-
ing, sorrow, and privation during the days of our
pilgrimage, which could never be written except
in the eternal Record, but are indelibly stamped
upon the memory of those who participated, and
their health like my own wrecked for life in con-
sequence.  These wrongs were never redressed,
neither in Ohio, Missouri, or Illinois, and being a
loyal, patriotic people we were naturally wrought
upon by the keenest of reflections upon those
grievances and gave voice to them and our heart-
burnings caused by the unjust and unnatural treat-
ment received at the hands of our countrymen
under a government that should have succored
and redressed the wrongs that they had done us.
But this did not cause us to secede, the first
thought of the Pioneers when they had pitched
their tents upon this then Mexican soil, was to 
show their allegiance by placing our national
banner upon the Peak above the Great Salt Lake
Valley to wave as an emblem of freedom to all
nations, sects, white, black, bond or free, who
chose to come to dwell peacably and help build
the cities—seen in visious of the future, which
were looked to be enjoyed under the wise laws of
a free and generous government.
     The hardy, patient, long enduring Pioneers,
and builders and owners of these towns and
cities, etc., are more than likely to remain here,
and continue improving, making this life what it
was designed—unless directed by the Hand
that led them here and blessed these parched
and barren vales for their sakes, having borne the
"Mormons" more real and tangible blessings than
any other spot upon His foot-stool, first redeemed
by their strength, patience and skill, etc., they are
the last ones that will move away, or be driven
or exterminated by any crushing process or rul-
ings gotten up by political interlopers, and con-
spirators who have come here bent upon rule or
ruin.  Honorable men of enterprise, manu-
facturers and all modern improvements have ever
been welcome, and all who desire to be honored
citizens.  The Latter-day Saints have proven
themselves a God-fearing people.  They have 
sought to control their feelings, to exercise
charity, and have thereby subdued much of that 
spirit of resentment and retaliation which is so
natural, towards those who have outraged and af-
flicted them beyond measure.  They pray for
those who may be blindly fighting, thinking like
Paul, that they are doing God's service in perse-
cuting, or killing the Latter-day Saints.
     But claiming to be lawful heirs of Father Adam
and mother Eve, begotten to inhabit the same
planet, with similar natures and peculiarities as
others of their descendants, and clinging as tena-
ciously to our faith and opinions as did our Puri-
ant progenitors, we have claimed it our right and


[column 1]

privilege to choose the religion that best satisfies
the soul and its earthly and heavenly wants. And
when violent steps have been taken to invade,
and to sever the ties, and cherished endearments
of country, home and people whose sympathies
for each other were naturally strengthened by
suffering together, being encroached upon and
driven from place to place under the point of
bayonets, and forced from our native hills and
Temples, and the rest of mankind, with no favor
or word of sympathy from any other quarter of
the land that gave us birth, has it not been
enough without mentioning religion, to knit and
bind our hearts together? And to unite us more
closely when the cry of extermination again rings
in our ears. Persecution has ever been the legacy
of God’s people. But He says “Vengence is Mine
and I will repay."
	These peculiar trials being predicted have not
come unawares as does the thief in the night.
They have been looked for as among the inevi-
table that would have to be met in the great com-
bat. And this is why they are able to endure as
patiently as they do, and even cheerfully the un-
lawful and impious encroachments that are being
made upon them.
	"Eternal vigilance” is the watch-word, and
their final victory is written upon the banner of
truth and right, which has ever and will forever
conquer. Let those who wish to bring about a
reformation among the "Mormons" set before
them a worthy example in worldly as well as
spiritual things, after the pattern of Christ, who
said "His people must become one in all things."
Let them show equal works of righteousness with
those manifested among the majority of this
people. Where is there a community professing
Christianity that show the charity, mercy, long-
suffering and forbearance towards their fellow be-
ings, as becometh Christians, taught and lived by
the humble, but hated and crucified Savior of the
world? Where is the power of His gospel being
manifested, the administrations and gifts pertain-
to it, in any other church outside of the Latter-day
Saints?
	From the power and violence arrayed against
this work one can judge of the strength that it
has reached. Among the feeble efforts that have
been made to stop it are the steps taken to prevent
the gathering of the Saints from foreign lands.
But they might as well pass a law to stop the
emigration from the spirit world as the gathering
of the seed of Israel. There are good among all
communities who will yet receive this gospel.
Thousands will come to enquire, and learn the
truth concerning it after the Elders have been
called in from the nations, and will rejoice in the
same. There are few who now possess sufficient
moral courage to speak in defence of an unpopular
people were they so inclined.
	But, when various other denominations are made
to conform to similar laws, confiscations, etc.
which is sure to come upon the principle “as you
do unto others, etc.," they will find more room for
that milk of human kindness that is witheld from
the "Mormons” now.
	The Lord said that He would have a tried
people, that they were to come up through much
tribulation, and be made perfect through suffer-
ing. Their afflictions and humiliations have all
been profitable. But who of this generation
knows the hundredth part of what it has cost
them to be Saints? But the gospel makes them
stronger and more patient as the years roll on.
And these present fiery trials may be viewed as
harbingers of better days than the Latter-day
Saints have ever yet enjoyed. Jesus said that His
people should be hated of all nations for
His name’s sake. And there is an unspeakable
joy and satisfaction at this thought, and that
“though they be punished in the sight of men, yet
is their hope full of immortality.” The earth be-
ing the Lord's and the fulness thereof it rests with

[column 2]

Him and not their tormentors how long such
wickedness will be permitted to flourish. But
the swift judgments that have been predicted have
begun and are increasing upon the earth which is
ripe with iniquity, and we know that there will be
no cessation, but that suffering, bloodshed, mob-
bing, and wickedness of all kinds will increase.
The calamities and distress that we hear off in
our own land and all others', causes the troubles
here to seem light in comparison, and fills our
hearts with sorrow and mourning over the blind-
ness a indifference that is manifested, and the
suffering that is coming upon them, which they
might escape would they but heed the humble
champions of the gospel which the Lord com-
manded should be preached to all the world or
their blood would be found upon the skirts of
His people.
	This is barely the beginning of similar and
more awful events that have been casting their
shadows before, and which Joseph Smith foretold
would come upon this land without the wrongs
which he, and this people were then suffering
from, were requited. We are as sure of the
speedy deliverance of Zion, as we are that
another morn will break, and the darkness flee, or
that a tempest will abate when it has spent its
fury. These may be viewed as broad assertions
in the days of the judges, when to acknowledge
and obey a Superior power to earthly courts is in
their eyes a treasonable act; but I will refer such
to the following contained in the vision of St.
John.
	"I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts;
and I will give unto every one of you according
to your works. And he that overcometh, and
keepeth my works unto the end to him will I
give power over the nations.”
					H. M. WHITNEY
	Jan. 24th, 1890.


