WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


None but the brave deserve the fair.—John
Lyrden.


[Column 1]
	       	    HEPHZIBAH.	
              		   XIV.
	A winter day, and cold the wind and shrill,
		The snow was falling, when a little hand,
	Came slowly winding down a gentle hill,
		And by an ice-bound brook in groups they stand.

	Hespie Hathaway needed repose after the
examination which had been very trying to
one so sensitive to influences, but events were
crowding fast upon her and she little dreamed
what changes the next few months would 
bring in her life.
	A day or two after the school had closed,
Miss Andrews the preceptress called and bade
her favorite pupil good bye. It was a sad
leave-taking for Hepsie,—for although Miss
Andrews assured her she would return sometime
Hepsie felt she should never see her dear
teacher again, and could not refrain from
telling her so in the most impulsive way; she
gave the girl many parting instructions telling
what she should expect of her in the next few
years; and finished by saying "you will far sur-
pass me in a literary way. Let me hear from
you by letter" and so they parted never to meet
again. 
	On the following Monday Hepsie was at
home with her mother and little brothers and
sisters. Mrs. H was so happy in her new-
found faith that she talked of nothing else.
In fact it was the topic of conversation
throughout the whole village. Old and young
and ere long forty or more had been baptized.
A branch of the Church was organized and
regular meetings were held. Many striking
instances of the gift of healing had been mani-
fested, and great interest aroused upon that
particular point of doctrine.
	The Elder of whom Mrs. H. had writen to 
Hepsie had visited B. and returned to Boston
but was expected again shortly and Lucy
Reynolds as well as Hepsie's mother and
others felt sure she would be converted under
his teaching. Hepsie listened to them but did not
enter into their enthusiasm on the subject as
her mother had anticipated. She exhorted her,
wept over her, prayed for her and still made
no perceptible impression.
	Lucy Reynolds had confided in Hepsie con-
cerning the matter of obtaining her letters from
Henry and the girl had promised to use every
honorable effort to get possession of them. The
opportunity came, Henry learning from his
sisters that Hepsie had gone home, he paid
a visit to the village to find out how Lucy was
and how affairs were for he had heard a 
rumor that Mr. W. just graduated was going
to marry Lucy and take her out West among
the Mormons. He called on Hepsie to ascer-
tain whether these reports were true. It was
just what Hepsie wanted, to see him and talk
with him and if possible secure the letters.
During his call she inquired how he could have
given Lucy up so easily. He replied "Hepsie
I loved Lutie" (for so he called her) better
than I ever shall love again, but I could not
think of associating with a girl, who had no
more respect for herself than to join such a low
degraded set as the Mormons.,'
	"Well but suppose your sisters were to be
converted to the new religion?" said Hepsie.
"I would disown them or my mother either!"
Hepsie felt this was the moment and she pro-
ceeded to open the budget, "Henry as you so
thoroughly despise the Mormons and all that
pertains to them you certainly do not care to
keep any thing of theirs?" I don't understand
you I never had anything belonging to one
of them neither would I!" "But you have Henry
I can prove it to you and moreover I want
you to promise to give them to me!" "Give
you what I have not, or ever had impossible!"
"It is not impossible and it is quite true—
Lucy is a Mormon and you have her letters,
[Column 2]
you have broken the engagement so sacred to
you two,—you will not even see her, although
you came to see me because you knew I
would be in her confidence, and you certainly
do not want the letters: Lucy has the same
ideas of propriety in all things she had before
her baptism and she does not think it proper 
for a young man, who is not her friend even
to have letters written when they were under
promise of marriage to each other."
	Henry was silent and almost sorrowful
tender hearted little Hepsie nearly relented,
but she summoned up courage and continued
as she saw he made no attempt to speak.
"Henry do you think it right to keep a
young lady's letters, love letters too, under
such circumstances have the goodness to
answer; and besides do you feel that you have 
been manly in summarily breaking this engage-
ment because of a difference in belief? You
will never get Lucy’s equal go where you will
and I don't believe you will ever be happy
either." 
	Slowly and evidently somewhat affected
with the scene Henry rose to go and holding
out his hand to Hepsie said  “Lucy has a
friend in you Hepsie and I admire your
“grit—” but look out the "Mormons," don't
capture you too." "But the letters Henry?"
She shall have them Hepsie and mine "he
added," she may burn." "Good-bye Hephzibah
don't give up your bright future for Mormonism
remember I warn you."
	How was it that every one who came to
see Hepsie warned her to beware of the faith
her mother had accepted, it was so contrary
to all the teachings of her life time, children
were instructed to give heed to the advice of
parents to follow their example, now things
seemed to have suddenly changed To day
when Henry plead with Hepsie not to yield
up her bright future, her emotions were
aroused and her sense of honor as she thought
impeached. She felt her mother who had
stood so high in the estimation of all must
know as much or more of right and wrong,
truth and error as Henry, and in fact she al-
most despised him for his lack of courage in giv-
ing Lucy up. She began to wonder what sort of
men and women conposed society and whether
it was all false a mere sham without honest
foundations, to stand upon; she recalled the
days when she sat on the "old settle" by her
grandfather, and his tales of daring courage
and how love over came all—and for a moment
she felt as though the foundation stones upon
which her theories had been built were giving
way. Yet in this even her trouble was more
for her friend than herself—although she
could now plainly see that unless she received
the faith her mother had embraced separation
was sure to come.
	Sometimes Fate or an unknown power decided
for us peremptorily matters over which we
hesitate and so it was with Hepsie. Ever
since she had returned from the school her
mother had sought to impress her with the
truths of the Gospel, and on  the other hand
messages were being continuously sent her, and
friends urging her not to be baptized by a
Mormon.
	One Sunday Morning Elder Mc’G.—walked
into the meeting unexpectedly and was invited
to speak—it was in the house of one of the
members whose family had all been converted.
The sermon was an eloquent inspirational
one, such as Hepsie had never heard, and the
entire congregation were almost electrified.
Several people came forward after meeting
and asked for baptism, and after some con-
sultation it was decided the ice should be cut
in Mrs. Hathaway's brook and the ceremony
performed there. The evening was spent in
hearing explanations of doctrine from Elder
Mc’G.—and it was late when the company of
inquirers dispersed. The morning dawned a


last but Hepsie had never closed her eyes, so
intensely was she wrought upon by what she
had listened to.
	Two powers were warring with her, one said
“Obey your mother, go down into the waters
of baptism in the little brook that always
seemed a sanctuary,” the other said “do not
heed the sayings of your mother or the Elders,
a brilliant future awaits you, you must not
make this sacrifice." This and much more the
tempter whispered in her ear. When the
time came she went with the others who had
gathered at Mrs. H’s down the hill to the edge
of the water or ice, and as she stood there all
the time the same subtle powers were striving
with her. Two or three of the chief men of
the village came and spoke to her “Are you
doing this of your own free will and choice?"
she only replied in monysyllables and heeded
not the crowd, the wind blew fierce and
whistled down through the hemlock grove
above a sort of chant, it soothed her, she felt
the sympathy it brought, it was like a strain
of rare old music, and it gave her fresh courage,
seven had already been immersed and her name
was called, some one took hold of her arm—it
was one she had known and reverenced, one
who had been specially kind to her, the father
of her dear friend and champion, Jane—the most
influential man in the County—“Hepsie he
said come away you are but a child, you must
not make this great sacrifice"—the sentence 
was unfinished,—Hepsie saw the Elder standing 
in the icy stream waiting for her—she went
towards him it was but a step—her heart gave
a great sob—the words were pronounced with
great solemnity, in a moment it was over,—the
crowd, dispersed, and the little band of men
and women had gone up one after another
when the ordinance had been performed, to the
house to change clothing. Hepsie was the last
—and silently she returned to the house and
was soon ready seated with the others for con-
firmation. It had been an exciting time,
Hepsie’s mother, cool and collected as she had
always seemed, had been very nervous, lest
at the last moment Hepsie should waver and
refuse as some others had done after having
come prepared to go into the water. Hepsie
did not at all comprehend the situation, she
had no conception of the obstacles that would
beset her path more and more from this time 
forward.


