UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Utah Stake held Nov. 30th, 1889.  Sister John
presiding with her Coun. Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing, and prayer,
the reading of minutes of former conference,
etc.
	Sister John felt grateful to our Heavenly
Father for health and strength to meet  with  
us again, alluded to the good time we had at
our last conference, hoped we should have the
spirit of God with us today to guide us in what
we should do and say. Called on the presi-
dents to represent their different branches over
which they preside.  Seven presidents re


[column 1]

sponded to the call and gave encouraging re-
ports of the few, the same faithful few that al- 
ways attend these meetings. Each Pres. bore 
a strong testimony to the truth of this gospel 
and hoped to hold out faithful to the end.
	Sister Standring after representing her ward
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of this 
work, and exhorted the sisters to renewed faith-
fulness, said we would be held responsible for 
the way we magnify our callings, we have need
to rejoice at our persecutions, I wish to live to 
see Zion redeemed, our Savior's coming is near
and let us so live that we may have oil in 
our lamps and be ready for his coming, etc.,
etc.
	Sister Marilla Daniels felt it a privilege to 
meet with the sisters again, had many testi-
monies to bear, each testimony we hear our 
sisters bear strengthens us, the Lord has turned
the key in our behalf and He has blessed us 
in our administrations to our children. Be 
watchful and prayerful, put away pride and 
selfishness, be faithful and watchful if our 
Savior should come now we should not be
able to stand in His presence, etc., etc. 
	Susa Y. Gates was pleased at the remarks 
of the sisters that had spoken, loved to hear
the sisters bear their testimonies it strengthened
and encouraged her, she had had many testi
monies for herself, was trying to overcome her 
faults and live humble and prayerful. Ex-
horted mothers to attend the Primary Associa-
tions with their children. Encouraged the 
sisters to uphold Sister John and her coun-
selors for their untiring efforts traveling around
among the sisters, etc. 
	After singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session opened with singing and 
prayer. Sister Brown from Pleasant Grove 
felt well paid for coming to Conference and 
hearing the testimonies of the sisters. Knew
this work was from the Lord and that we would 
come off victorious. I feel that we have been 
preserved in the hollow of his hand, there have 
been plots and plans laid for the destruction 
of this people ever since Joseph had the first 
revelation, but they have never retarded this
work. we have increased all the time because 
it is God's work. Let us all do right and I 
have no fear, in the spirit of God there is 
safety and in no other way, etc.
	Sister Anna K. Smoot always had a testi-
mony to bear; by hearing our sisters speak we 
learn to know each other, if we realized that 
more, it would help us and we would be more 
punctual in our attendance at meetings. How 
great a thing it is to day we know this is the 
kingdom of God we cannot say it without his 
will and His spirit; let us keep His spirit that 
we may be enabled to continue to bear that
testimony lest darkness overtake us, we may 
omit something or do something that will 
darken the spirit and we may lose it entirely,
Spoke in the interest of teh Primary Associa-
tion, exhorted mothers to set their children 
good examples for they will remember them 
when your words will be forgotten, etc.
	Pres. John said "I am thankful to meet with 
you and am pleased with the remarks that 
are made, they are timely and worth treasur-
ing up, faithfulness to our duties is com-
mendable, these societies are great helps, they 
are a tower of strength to advance the king-
dom. Woman's position will be advanced 
from this time; our Savior talked with Eve 
and also with Sarah and Mary. Joseph re-
vealed the doctrine that we had a mother in 
heaven. Christ first appeared to woman after 
His Crucifixion that shows how she was 
viewed by him. Woman is entitled to be equal 
with man, every key of the priesthood that 
man has, woman can enjoy with her husband,
women are our first and last friends, we could 
not do without them, we go side by side, let 
us be careful of our children and guide them 

[column 2]

 aright, teach them to value the teachings of 
good and holy men. We are not through our 
troubles yet, but the Lord rules, the kingdom 
of God is not dead it is alive," etc.
	Sister John felt that we had a great work
before us, and said, "let us live that we can 
have the smiles and approbation of our 
Heavenly Father. We will now adjourn for 
three months, singing, "The time is far spent 
there is little remaining." Benediction by 
David John.
