BIRTHDAY HONORS.

	Yesterday January 31st, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, General
President of the Relief Society throughout the
Church, and also of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, her
First Counselor.
	A few sisters met by invitation at the residence
of Mrs. Young’s daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie
to spend the afternoon and evening in honor of
the happy occasion. There were about twenty


guests in all and the time passed off delightfully
in exchanges of greetings and conversation until
the “five o’clock tea" was announced, which was
a very social affair, handsomely served, and the
viands were most delicious. When supper was
over a sort of informal meeting was held Mrs.
Presendia Kimball, sister of Mrs. Young, and
herself a veteran Mother in Israel in her 80th,
year presiding.
	After singing the hymn "O, my Father," prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Howard, another hymn
followed and the sisters gave expression in brief
of their love, and good wishes and blessings for
“Aunt Zina,” as she is lovingly called by her “dear
five hundred friends” and many more.
	The gifts of the Gospel were poured forth to
the joy and comforting of all present. It was a time
of refreshing from on high, trials and cares were 
forgotten and joy and love for the Gospel and 
each other reigned supreme in the hearts of all 
present.
	"Aunt Zina" was also the grateful recipient of 
gifts and mementos from the loved ones assem-
bled there and from absent friends. She also re-
ceived a telegram of congratulations and respect
from Apostle F. D. Richards, and altogether the 
day was one long to be remembered.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards we are informed had a
a party given her at home in Ogden, and was hon-
ored with similar attentions quite equal to those
Mrs. Young received here. Mrs. Richards was in-
vited by Mrs. Beattie to come to Salt Lake and 
participate in the party, but other arrangements 
had no doubt been made beforehand to celebrate 
the day.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Mrs. Young and to Mrs. Richards, and wishes
for both not only many happy returns of the day
with health and good wishes but success in the
labors of love, they are engaged in for the uplift-
ing of humanity.


