THE  OLD FOLKS' ENTERTAINMENT.
	On Friday, January 24, ult. the Old Folks Com-
mittee gave an exceptionally good entertainment
in the theatre to widows, orphans and all old peo-
ple over 70 years of age; it was a pleasant sight
to see these aged people enjoying to the utmost
the play, songs and music. Then the children
who occupied the third circle were so quiet and
orderly, and repressed the cheers and applause
that would doubtless have been vociferous enough
had it not been for a promise exacted from them
beforehand by Brother Goddard, that they would
be quiet for the sake of the dear old people who
could not stand a noise and confusion.
	The play given as a benefit on this occasion
was "The Chimney Corner," and several of the
actors who used to appear upon the stage in the
earlier days of the drama in Salt Lake, gave their
services for the old people's delectation. Phil
Margett's rendition of the part he carried, really
the principal part, was done to perfection—he
acquitted himself admirably throughout, and the
others seemed quite at home in the performance.
It was all very creditably done and a suitable
play.
	Brother Dunbar's character singing, carried one
back to the time when he was really young and
in his prime.
	There were other excellent parts of the pro-
gramme and all so smooth and harmoniously
arranged; the guitar and mandolin club looked
handsome and played sweetly, the Old Folks
Choir gave choice selections in their very best
style, and Mrs. Silverwood sang, "Dear heart
we're growing old," Mrs. A. O. Thomas warbled
exquisitely a Norwegian selection, and we must
not forget to mention the two little drummer boys
in soldier costume who played so well, and
looked so charming; Masters Leslie Clawson
and Frank Barrell. This Winter pastime fo


those whose lives are a sort of humdrum exist-
ence when the weather is too severe for them to
get out, is a blessing indeed, and gives them
something pleasant to think of for days after-
wards.
	The Committee deserve great credit for their
thoughtfulness of, and solicitude for the aged, and
their own days will be happier and their spirits
more serene for the tenderness, love and honor
they have shown the dear old  people from time
to time.


