A REMEMBRANCE.

	The sudden death of Mrs. Mary Jane Tanner,
of Provo, Jan. 8th, was quite a shock to all her
friends as well as immediate relatives. The de-
ceased was widely and favorably known and was
a most useful and gifted member of society.
	The writer of this was well acquainted with
Mrs. Tanner when a girl scarcely more than a
child, and from that time until the present, though
since her marriage dwelling some distance apart,
a social and friendly interchange of feelings and
ideas has been kept up by means of correspond-
ence and occasional visits.
	Mrs. Tanner was known by many through her
poetry and other writings, who never had the
pleasure of meeting her personally and her com-
forting words have been to them a solace in the
midst of sorrow and trials. Her book entitled
"Fugitive Poems" has been circulated through-
out the Stakes of Zion and also in other parts of
the country; she has been an occasional and at
times a regular contributor to the EXPONENT from
the time it was first issued, and the readers of
the paper will miss her gentle, poetic expressions
and her strong and emphatic writings on the wo-
man question.
	A brief sketch of her mother's life, by Mrs.
Tanner was published in the paper as a sort of
serial a few years ago under the title of "Jesse
Burns or Was it Fate," and was favorably com-
mented upon at the time. Mrs. Tanner was
talented in many other ways besides possessing
the precious gift of poesy—she was practical and
executive in all the affairs and transactions of life.
She was an excellent President over the Relief
Society and that position requires tact, discern-
ment, discrimination and executive ability as well
as a vast amount of patience and faith. These
gifts she possessed and turned to good account.
She will be greatly missed in the community and
especially will her loss be felt in her own ward,
and her own home where she was surrounded
with love and looked up to as the guiding star.
Of her we can truly say "Her children rise up
and call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."


