A PLEASANT DAY.
	The morning ride had been most enjoyable
affording fine panoramic glimpses of the
Thuringian mountains and now ending at the
beautifully situated city of Eisenach in the
midst of the Thuringian forest.  It was still
early morning when we alighted from the
train.  Every thing looked fresh and beauti-
ful and seemed to bid us welcome on this
bright, clear spring morning, when the foliage
wet with April dews glistened and glimmered
in the sun's first rays.  Just a step or two to
the cleanest and pleasantest little hotel where
a wash and a generous German breakfast re-
freshed and prepared us for a long busy day's
work.  Unlike so many who attempt to "do"
all Europe in one season we had loitered along
the way enjoying everything to the uttermost,
until our time was well nigh spent and we
could allow ourselves only one day for this in-
teresting city with its wonderful, romantic and
historical environs; still, happening to be the
second visit for one of us, no time need be
uselessly spent.  Here not far from our hotel
near the town's entrance stands an old Roman
tower called—St. Nicholas—we stop a few
moments to look and admire, not so much the
structure as its defiance of time, for through
all these decades, nay centuries, it still main-

[Column 2]
tains its ancient granduer and silently but
forcibly recalls to the stranger the history of the
Romans and their glorious exploits under their
greatest of leaders—the immortal Caesar.  We
pass by with only a glance, the most magni-
ficent home of some high born German, with
such beautifully laid out gardens that we long
to enter but other points of interest like
magnets draw us on through the narrow wind-
ing streets until we pause in an open place
before an old, queer house where a tablet tells
us that here in 1385 John Sebastian Bach was
born, a humble birth place for one, whose name
in grandest, soul-inspiring notes is ever re-
sounding from the sacred cathedral walls
throughout the universe.
	Passing along the busiest streets my com-
panion suddenly touches my arm and point-
ing to a small house, which by the red and
white stripes one always knows to be a barber
shop, laughingly says, "It was there I encount-
ered the crazy barber who had it not been for
the mirror before me which reflected his
maddening look just as the razor cut my
cheek, would probably have taken my life.  In
a second I sprang to my feet clutched him 
around the throat and hurled him in the op-
posite corner, then rushing to the door with
my face still bleeding I hailed a policeman
who informed me that only a few weeks be-
fore had this very barber been released from
an insane asylum."  Fancy a government so
strict in almost every instance allowing an
insane man to practice a profession requiring
such dangerous tools.  "However the incident
was not without its charm, happening on the
day of the "Burchenfest" Oct. 18, when
students from all parts of Germany visit the
Wartburg Castle my scarred face gave one an
impression that I had but recently been en-
gaged in a duel and therefore I became the re-
cipient of marked attentions.
	Passing through the different streets we
occasionally pause before a monument now in
commemoration of the victory of 171 and then
to the honor of some king or hero; here in
Carl Street is the birth place of Friedrich
Preller, the painter, and there the house where
Luther lived with Frau Ursula Cotta, while at-
tending school, but the day is passing, we
hurry on through the crowded streets out to
the broad road passing the charming villa,
where once lived Fritz Reuter, a low German
poet, on to the delightful old castle the one
great attraction of Eisenach—The Wartburg.
The old castles and towers we had previously
visited were mostly ruins and unoccupied, but
the Wartburg is in good preservation and parts
of it occupied during certain seasons by the
grand ducal family.  To attempt a descrip-
tion of the interior would be too long a task,
so many long rooms and corridors with quaint
and interesting frescoed walls and massive
carved ceilings, I can only stop to mention the
rooms that interested me most.  The castle is
said to be a fine specimen of the Romanesque
style and though more than eight centuries old
still maintains its original shape.  The ban-
quet hall is a very beautiful room, the finest
I believe in all the castle, and the little chapel
is so unique and pretty that upon entering
one immediately feels a desire for worship.
The Sangersall is a large interesting room,
beautifully decorate with arabesques and
figures of minstrels with quotations from their
ballads; this was the room in which the great
contest between the rival minstrels of Ger


many were held. The armory almost
frightens one with its shining armor looking
like a hall of ghouls as the bright figures stand
staring with empty sockets but we needs must
enter here just to see the armor worn by
Martin Luther when he returned from Worms
and was led to this castle by his friend the
Elector, Frederick the Wise. Our interest is
now turned towards that part of the castle made
famous, and we might add sacred,by the pres-
ence of the great reformer, with only a passing
glance we enter and leave the Elizabeth Gallery,
the Remenate, or Grand Duke’s rooms, stop-
ping awhile in the Reformation rooms to look
at the pictures telling with their shades and
colors the different incidents in Luther’s life,
until finally we reach a little room, where
for the moment one almost believes Luther
himself is there, so well preserved are all the
furnishings, there is his desk, his chair, his
drinking cup, his book case, his portrait and
his letters. Here in this very room at this
little carved table he sat and worked for
nearly a year at his Bible Translation. What
a wondrous work that year produced, a work
to last forever and carry with it through the
ages the name of Martin Luther.
	The close attentions of the guide in this
room were rather annoying, he appeared to be
watching us, but I did not wonder later, when
looking closely at the furniture I observed that
many small pieces had been split out of it ap-
parently with a pen knife and the guide told
us, tourists had done this. What sacrilege to
mar and ruin beautiful relics for the sake of
enriching a little private cabinet. On the
wall is a large spot void of plaster, it is the
place where Luther under an hallucination
fancied the devil was trying to stop his work
and threw his ink bottle at him. Visitors
have scraped every particle of ink-stained
plaster from the wall, we suggested the idea of
replastering and throwing another ink stand
on it for the benefit of tourists, crazy for
curios.
	Looking from the south tower is a charming
view of the Thuringian Forest and I longed to
leave the high dark walls of the old castle
and penetrate into the shades of that forest the
home and heart of romance. The old songs
and legends seemed to echo down the glens
and as the setting sun cast its bright rays
among the shimmering leaves, and along the
rippling stream I fancied fairy sprites and elves
were sporting among the long graceful ferns.
The shadows of the tall dark pines lay plain
and distinct upon the verdant hills and the
approaching twilight lent a dreamy charm to
the forest walk.
	We descended from the main road down a
winding path over stones and bushes into a
wooded ravine, called the Annathal or Anna
Valley, where we entered a narrow cleft or
gorge. On either side the high precipitous
rocks were clothed with a more luxuriant
growth of ferns and mosses than I had ever
dreamed of, and the water trickled down the
sides and flowed under our feet making so
clear and loud a sound, that I surely thought
the crust of earth on which we walked would
break, and force us into a raging river. For
a hundred and fifty yards we walked through
this fairy home and then once more reached
the main road and turned our steps towards
the city. The forest shades were growing
darker and denser every moment and not
until the bright light of the city welcomed us
back could I throw aside the dreamy fanci-
ful feeling that the whispering leaves
and murmuring waters had imparted to me.
The day was done. 
