"And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth—
"And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost.
"And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord and the power of God unto salvation.
"Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants.
"Wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come." (Doctrine and Covenants, 68:2-6)
THAT is what the Lord said. When one of the brethren stands before a congregation of the people today, and the inspiration of the Lord is upon him, he speaks that which the Lord would have him speak. It is just as much scripture as anything you will find written in any of these records, and yet we call these the standard works of the Church. We depend, of course, upon the guidance of the brethren who are entitled to inspiration. There is only one man in the Church at a time who has the right to give revelation for the Church, and that is the President of the Church. But that does not bar any other member in this Church from speaking the word of the Lord as indicated here in this revelation, but a revelation that is to be given as these revelations are given in this book, to the Church, will come through the presiding officer of the Church; yet the word of the Lord, as spoken by other servants at the general conferences and stake conferences, or wherever they may be when they speak that which the Lord has put into their mouths, is just as much the word of the Lord as the writings and the words of other prophets in other dispensations.
Now the reason for prophets in this day is that we might be guided in all truth, that we might draw near unto God, that we might know His ways and walk in His paths in righteousness. I want to read another passage of scripture. This, I think, is one of the finest things the Lord has given:
"Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together." (Provided the one who speaks is speaking under the inspiration of the spirit of God.) We have a great many speakers who speak among us who are not guided by the spirit of God. They are guided by their own inspiration—the inspiration of men. They have put their trust in men rather than in the Lord. The Lord says, in cases of this kind,
"And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness.
"That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
"And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the truth, that you may chase darkness from among you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 50:23-25)
Now it is the privilege of every member of this Church to be a prophet; it is the privilege of every member of the Church to know the truth, to speak by the truth, to have the inspiration of the Holy Ghost; it is our privilege, individually, as stated here, to receive the light and to walk in the light; and if we continue in God, that is, keep all of His commandments, we shall receive more light until eventually there shall come to us the perfect day of knowledge. I will read another passage:
"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth;
"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments.
"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." (Doctrine and Covenants, 93:26-28)
To an ancient prophet the Lord said: "Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he." (Proverbs, 29:18)
Again: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but (until) he revealeth his secret to his servants the prophets." (Amos, 3:7)
Men are entitled to receive a warning that they may repent and gain knowledge of the things of God. To Hyrum Smith, who came to his brother, the Prophet, to know what the Lord would have him do even before the Church was organized, the Lord said:
"Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things;
"Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth.
"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap." (Doctrine and Covenants, 11:25-27)
So through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the guidance of the Lord, which may come to any one of us, the privilege is granted that we may walk in truth until eventually, not now, we shall know the truth in its fulness; we shall stand before the Lord in righteousness, and shall be like Him. Without the guidance of inspiration and revelation these things could not come. The Lord bless you, I pray, and guide us all that we may walk in the light and follow the inspiration of those who speak and teach among us, who in humility and faith endeavor to put before the people the will of the Lord rather than their own commandments, and so I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

WINTER
Across the fields and gardens that we knew, To sweep the summer glory from our sight, To blot away the red, the green, the blue, Cold Winter weaves a shroud of snowy white.
Against the sunset of a gray-blue sky, The birches and the aspens rise to fling Their leafless branches in a pattern high, That on this harp a winter wind may sing.
What is this Law—this quiet death to keep The roots close folded in the land's sweet breast, The small, brown seeds within their span of sleep, That sends wee birds away to search a nest?
There is no death in Winter's glistening snow! God's purpose lingers in the earth's dark womb. Fruit, flowers, gladsome things the world shall know, When Spring, in all her wonder, wakens from the tomb.
—Beatrice Rordame Parsons.