Needing all
Pageantry J. Karl Wood
PAGEANTRY, well done, is one of the most effective means of emotional stimulation. As a teaching device, it is unequaled. However, if abused, it becomes a bore and defeats its own purpose. Despite the fact that its use is increasing, pageantry is very much in disrepute in many places. The reason for its failure is usually not hard to find. Poorly written, hastily prepared or stereotyped pageants will fail. Pageants that are simply a series of static stage pictures accompanied by long-drawn-out readings will drive any audience away.
More care should be given to the pageant script. The same laws that govern drama also apply here. We would not think of having an untrained or inexperienced person write a play for presentation by our organization, but we seem to think that anyone can write a pageant. We fail to appreciate the careful preparation needed in the use of the pageant as a soul-stimulant.
The use of art in religion is very important—not for art's sake, but for its use in lifting the soul into spiritual realms. Compare the use of art in religion to a wheel whose spokes lead to the hub in the center. Music, drama, poetry, color, costume, stage-picture, etc., are the spokes, while the human soul passing through a religious experience is the hub. The pageant is especially suited to this soul-lifting, because it employs so many of the arts. In a well-written pageant, there should be a proper balance and blending of all the arts. One art overdone will unbalance the wheel.
Since pageants suitable for use in the Relief Society must be specially written, a few suggestions may help.
Writing the Pageant
1. Carefully select the theme. Among the Relief Society organizations this will likely be the history of the national or local organization, or the development of some idea in connection with it. Caution: Carefully restrict the theme so as not to cover too wide a field. Many pageants fail because they cover everything from "Dan to Beersheba." In any event, time the production so that the total time of the meeting in which the pageant is presented will not exceed one hour and ten minutes. This will take into account the time it takes for other phases of the meeting—opening and closing prayer, etc. Don't tire your audience.
2. Block out your pageant into episodes—from three to not more than seven. If the field is wide and there is much to cover, pick out important episodes and treat them in detail, connecting them with short, crisp transition readings.
3. The methods of developing the episodes may be dramatic dialogue, readings (poetry or prose) accompanied by moving stage pictures, dancing, music, etc. Each episode should contribute directly to the theme. To include a dance or any other art just because it is beautiful has no justification. Each art used should contribute to the theme just as much as does a reading or dialogue. Any one art should not be over-worked. It is best to have variety. Each song should not require more than three minutes and a dance should use about the same length of time; dramatic dialogue needs about ten minutes for each episode, while each reading should not require more than two minutes. By alternating these various methods, the audience will not be worn out.
4. The pageant should not be simply a series of static pictures or tableaux. All episodes should be arranged to move forward to a climax, each heightening the interest as it approaches the grand finale. If a stage picture is to be used, it should evolve or build into the story. Don't allow it to remain static too long. Every movement, every shift, should contribute to the enrichment of the theme.
5. As the grand finale or climax is approached, the tempo should increase. Don't drag the pageant out. Tell the story and quit.
6. A number of miscellaneous items may be mentioned in connection with writing the pageant. Write everything out—readings, suggested songs, stage directions, dialogue, required lighting. Have the script complete and enough copies prepared so that all concerned may have one. Leave no questions unanswered. Make every direction clear. Don't write directions that are impossible to carry out, such as calling for a giant spotlight when one cannot be found in your neighborhood. Be careful about requiring impossible stage sets or changes of scenery. If a change is required, provide for time to make the change by including a reading, instrumental music or song.
Accompany all readings with music. Use the organ, violin, string ensemble or other quiet and subdued music. The piano is a little harsh—be careful in its use in accompanying readings or progressive pictorial effects. Phonograph records used over a good Public Address system are helpful when other means fail.
Keep symbolism fresh and sufficiently clear so that the audience will "get the idea" of the symbol without explanation. The day when the symbols of "truth," "faith," etc., were distinguished by placards or sashes with the names printed on them, is past. These symbolic characters should be made clear to the audience by actions and words so that no sign need be used to tell whom or what they represent.
Producing the Pageant
The pageant script now having been written, and every detail outlined on paper, the next step is the production. In this, there should be orderly, business-like procedure.
1. A director should be appointed. This person need not be a thoroughly-trained dramatic director, though this would help. It does require, however, a person with a pleasant disposition who can get along with people and who is a good executive. The technical directors—drama, music, stage, costume, etc.—form the staff. All these should work cooperatively. If an interpretive dance is to be used, a dance director with ability to create an interpretive dance that tells a story in harmony with the theme should be engaged.
2. Casting the pageant is the next step. The directors should constitute the casting committee. Try to pick characters who can act. Just because a person is willing and attends to his religious duties, important as this is, is not full guarantee that he fits the part and can "put it over the footlights." Avoid the very bad practice of casting women in men's parts. True, the Relief Society sisters like to do the whole job themselves, but ofttimes an otherwise good production is made into a burlesque when some good sister, sloppily dressed in the much-too-ample suit of her husband, tries to act the part of a man. What should have been a soul-inspiring, religious experience becomes a hilarious farce. The following is a good rule in choosing characters: first, worthiness; second, ability; third, willingness. If the pageant is kept on a high religious and cultural plane, plenty of qualified people are usually willing to take part.
3. Rehearsals come next. Take plenty of time. Don't go before the public poorly prepared. The amount of time spent on rehearsals will depend on the production, of course. If the director has properly organized the work, the dramatic dialogues, chorus, readings, dances may all begin simultaneously under a separate director. This will conserve the time of the participants. It is a poor policy for a whole cast to go to rehearsal night after night and wait while each separate part is being practiced. If the separate rehearsals are carried on consistently, there need be only three or four ensemble rehearsals just before the presentation. It is the duty of the director to see that each part progresses at a rate that will assure a finished production when all are finally assembled.
4. Lighting is very important in pageantry. The lighting should contribute to the theme just as do the other arts. Spotlights should pick out important figures in a group, light areas where action takes place, or color a scene in harmony with the mood of the episode. Small spotlights of 150 or 300 watt capacity may be had at very nominal cost and are handled by local dealers. Color may be obtained by covering the light with cellophane. "Spots" and "floods" are for enhancing or building up important features of the act and in no way eliminate the general illumination in our meeting houses or stages. If all the light can be controlled by "dimmers," the effectiveness is increased many fold. With this method of control, light can gradually illuminate or fade out any picture, reader or symbolic figure very beautifully. This is much more effective than merely snapping the switch on or off.
5. The Relief Society sisters shouldn't have to be told anything about costuming. There are one or two things, however, that they should be reminded of: first, let's get away from the use of lining or cheesecloth for costumes—much better and more desirable materials are available nowadays; second, be careful to choose the costume that fits the character. For instance, don't dig out a fancy, old-fashioned wedding dress for a character who is crossing the plains. This type of costume may be all right for some scenes, but not for those depicting the struggling pioneer. The costumes should be characteristic of the scene, colorful and harmonious.
6. Have the stage so arranged that the pageant can proceed without interruption through the entire performance. A stage wait while a new scene is being arranged is very irritating. If the stage must be changed, have a reading or song while this is being done. A draw-curtain half way back on the stage helps greatly. With the use of this curtain, one scene may be set while another is going on. A stage built with various levels is helpful in balancing pictorial effects.
7. Finally, avoid static. By this is meant announcements, explanations, peeking through the curtain, rushing around the last moment with properties, a character dressed for a part coming up through the audience, swishing the curtain, and a thousand other little irritants. Have everything ready in advance. Don't allow anything to go undone. Start on time. Don't run over time. It isn't necessary to have visitors speak after the pageant is over. Send your audience away uplifted, inspired, and satisfied with a beautiful religious experience, and with the message of the pageant ringing in their souls.
Some of these things may seem trivial, but success or failure may depend upon them.
Note: Those who are further interested in the technique of pageantry production will find detailed information in the book Religious Drama and Pageantry Techniques in the Seminary, by J. Karl Wood. The book may be secured by writing to the L. D. S. Department of Education, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, or to J. Karl Wood, Hyrum, Utah. The price of the book is fifty cents.