First Things First Luella N. Adams Relief Society General Board Member (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940) OUR Heavenly Father has created a beautiful world for us in which those things necessary for our wellbeing have been generously provided. A flood of light has covered the earth in the last 100 years. The enlightened minds of men have ingeniously applied the truths of science and the universe to bring us the abundant life in a material way. Two thousand years ago, Christ came and by word and precept gave man the perfect example of the truly abundant life. In spite of all the light and knowledge that has been showered upon our generation, we find ourselves living in a very disturbing and chaotic time. What can be wrong? Why so much strife and hate? From history we learn that great civilizations in the past have been destroyed when the people became ripe in iniquity. Think-. Ing people today are concerned with the necessity of a spiritual awakening. "The fundamental teachings of Christianity should be instinctively in the blood of Americans. Men and women of deep religious convictions settled this country. Christianity is woven into its very fabric. The Pilgrims and Puritans who came to this choice land were deeply religious people who desired that everyone should have an opportunity to serve God according to the dictates of his own conscience. The early colonists of Virginia were God-fearing people. Washington had a fervent belief in God and a trust in an ever-ruling power. We know that our Constitution was divinely inspired and that our democracy is based on Christian principles which recognize the dignity of the human soul. Lincoln was richly endowed with spirituality. It was undaunted faith in the Lord and in the Gospel that brought our pioneer parents and grandparents to these valleys of the mountains and enabled them to accomplish so much. Too many of the descendants of these pioneers, however, have forsaken the faith of their forefathers. Though conscientious and honest, believing in the Golden Rule, they feel that the formality and requirements of religion are not necessary. They do not want to be tied and restricted by religious activity. They are of the opinion that to be orthodox is to be old-fashioned. Reverend Shoemaker, a Protestant minister, said, "People are getting the roots and fruits of Christianity confused. The fruit of Chnistianity is service, but the root is touch with the living God which brings spiritual power into life. 'The greatest mistake which has been made in our times is the substitution of human service for spiritual power and the confusion of Christianity with mere human good works. Service, ideals, and character are the fruits of Christianity." People are moved to good works after they have been touched with the spirit of the Master. The first great commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy FIRST THINGS FIRST heart and all thy mind," is as binding as ever before. "If ye love me, keep my commandments" is still imperative. Our Heavenly Father expects more than just living clean, upright lives and doing good deeds toward our fellowmen. Living the Golden Rule is commendable, but not sufficient. WHY are there so many indifferent Latter-day Saint parents, failing by example and precept to train their children in the truths of the Gospel? The individual with strong religious convictions and an understanding of the Gospel is far better fortified to resist the many temptations in the world and to undergo sorrows, trials, and hardships without becoming disillusioned and embittered, than the person without a substantial religious foundation. Someone has said, "Parents are assuming a tremendous responsibility in rearing children without the help of the Church. Religion sustained and comforted our parents in their quiet, simple lives. How much more do we need it in this troubled, complex, and fast-living age." There probably never was a time when children received the same intelligent, thoughtful care they now receive. Babies are weighed, measured and checked periodically. The young mother is concerned in seeing that her growing child receives a well-balanced diet conducive to growth and vitality. Calories are counted, vitamins necessary for growth are given, and perfect physical specimens are the result. Children are given opportunities for cultural and educational development. Many parents are workin and sacrificing to send children to 47 school. High schools, colleges and universities are crowded. But we must remember there is a spiritual as well as a material side to human beings, and the spiritual self can be undernourished. Great credit is due parents for recognizing the importance of body-building foods and Vitamins A, B, C, and D. But are children getting a balanced diet when religious training is neglected, when vitamin R, the vitamin of religion, is ignored? Angelo Patri, the noted child specialist, says, "Children need religion, because all human beings need it. We are spiritual beings first, material creatures afterward, and we can starve neither part of ourselves without dying. We have fed our material body well, and we have discovered that we have starved our spiritual selves to the brink of death." It is regrettable that some parents fail to understand that a son or daughter is prepared to face life competently only when he or she is well grounded in spiritual and cultural values, that the stabilizing influences of early teligious training and faith in a Heavenly Father fortify children as nothing else can. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: "Inasmuch as parents have children and teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, and baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be on the heads of the parents." May we understand that the first requirement for abundant living here and exaltation in the life to come, is to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. May we always place "first things first."