LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7
Family Life, An Eternal Unit?Joseph F. Smith (Tuesday, April 1, 1941)
"... If a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise... it... shall be of full force when they are out of the world;... therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting." (Doctrine and Covenants 132:19-20)
SPEAKING at a conference of the stake in Juab in 1869, President Woodruff said of Joseph F. Smith, "Look at him, my children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any living man. He will become president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." When he did become its president thirty-two years later, in October, 1901, he was the first person to achieve this position who had been born and reared within the Church. Of the sixty-three years that he had lived, thirty-five had been devoted to Church work as an Apostle; and during more than twenty years he had served as a counselor to Presidents Taylor, Woodruff, and Snow.
ABILITY AS A LEADER IN TEMPORAL AFFAIRS
Prior to his elevation to the Presidency, Joseph F. Smith had devoted the major portion of his Church service to the promotion of spiritual matters in the wards, stakes and missions. However, he soon gave evidence of keen insight into temporal matters as well as spiritual concerns. He continued the financial policies of President Snow with such success that by 1907 the bonded indebtedness of the Church had been paid off, and he could announce that the Church was able to meet its obligations as they arose. The continued wisdom in the expenditure of Church funds enabled the Church to commence a more rapid expansion of its influences throughout the world. Numerous ward and stake houses were erected, mission homes and mission chapels were acquired, and missionary work was augmented financially in keeping with the changing economic conditions of the missionaries and the demands of the mission fields. Numerous shrines of early Church history were acquired in Vermont, New York and Missouri. The Church undertook the construction of its first hospital in Salt Lake and erected its Bishop's Building and magnificent Church Administration Building to house the various offices of the rapidly growing Church. In addition, President Smith selected and dedicated sites for Temples in Hawaii and Canada.
Much adverse criticism was heaped upon the Church in general and President Smith personally for this apparent outward show of what was termed a growing "worldliness" on the part of the Church. President Smith, however, had a broader vision than his small-souled critics. He made little distinction between the temporal and spiritual, or the earthly and the eternal, and viewed them as being integrally associated. He replied, "It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here, cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and exalt them in the life to come."
OUTSTANDING CONVICTIONS OF HIS LIFE
As one reads extracts from the numerous sermons and writings of this sixth President of the Church, it becomes apparent, because of the frequency with which they are stressed, that two convictions actuated him in all of his conduct and teachings: first, his testimony of Jesus and His atoning work; second, the unwavering certainty of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith's mission and the reality of the truths that were revealed through him. In these revelations of God's plan of salvation, he saw that human personality and human relationships were the fundamentals that would survive in the eternities, if obedience to God's will had been shown during mortality.
FAMILY LIFE
Those who personally remember President Smith can recall that one of the outstanding characteristics of his life was the love he manifested for his family. He was never too busy to be of assistance to a little child, or to counsel someone concerning home and family life. He believed that the home was the best possible place for the training of children and stressed the responsibility of parents to win the love, admiration, and confidence of their children. His writings reveal that he considered his wives and children as his most worthwhile possessions, and felt his eternal happiness would be dependent upon their faithfulness to the Gospel. He was confident that marriage was a God-ordained and God-sanctioned institution, not something that man or society had created. The marriage relation was, he taught, one of holiness?a relation into which every capable soul was expected to enter. The obligation of bringing children into the world was a responsibility that God placed on every mortal. He was firm in his view that no man should rule his wife or children by force or tyranny. Love was to be the only power used for control. Throughout his long and active life, he constantly placed his obligation toward his families as paramount, and he left behind a numerous posterity which manifests that he practiced within his own family the principles of kindness, love and consideration which he so often preached in public.
THE ETERNITY OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Not only did President Smith hold lofty conceptions of the place of family life in society and the Church, but he also was firm in his conviction that family relationships should have eternal existence.