NOTES AND NEWS.

	ABOUT ONE hundred specimens of an-
cient pottery, which were dug up in the
State of Missouri have been recently presen-
ted to the Museum of Yale College. It is sup-
posed they are about 2,000 years old. In
our opinion this is another testimony to
substantiate the validity of the Book of
Mormon.
	THE EMPEROR of Brazil is about to pub-
lish a book of travels. The first volume,
now finished, contains an account of his tour
through the United States. It will be pub-
lished in December in Paris. Although
written in Portugese, it has been translated
into English, French and German.
	THE SALE of the Old South Church in
Boston, which has been so much talked of
by the women of that city, has at last been
formally completed. The purchaser, Mr.
B. M. Pulsifer, gave a bond to the commit-
tee of ladies which if they raise the money
within a reasonable time will entitle them
to a deed of the property.
	THERE WAS a reception given to the Wo-
man's Congress which recently assembled
in Philadelphia by the Woman's Centennial
Committee. The affair was to all intents
and purposes a brilliant one of its kind,
and yet without any ostentation or display,
even in the matter of dress. Everything
being arranged with simplicity and ele-
gance. It is much to the credit of all wo-
men that this extraordinary occasion, for
an example, furnishes one incident notice-
able, and which, it is greatly to be hoped,
will be extensively imitated elsewhere; it
is this, there was no wine upon the table.
	AN OLD CUSTOM.—This season, the cere-
mony of opening the Nile, near Cairo,
Egypt, took place in the presence of the
principal ministers and officials and several
thousand persons. The ceremony is held
when the river attains a certain height.
An opening is cut to admit its fertilizing
waters to the numerous canals spread all
over lower Egypt. The effigy, of a woman
in gorgeous apparel, and bedecked with
jewelry, is floated down the stream, and
money is distributed to the natives present,
in token of the riches and abundance that
will result wherever the Nile flows.


LEAVES seem light, and useless, and idle,
and wavering, and changeable—they even
dance; yet God has made them part of the
oak. In so doing, he has given us a lesson,
not to deny the stout-heartedness within,
because we see the lightsomeness without.


