TEMPORAL SALVATION.

	The above phrase has been quite a hobby
with many practical people in this church and
kingdom. Now the attention of, at least the
women of this people, is called to the subject
of a temporal salvation in a real and tangible
form: the buying and saving of grain. Do not
neglect the opportunity of commencing in this
enterprise if you would preserve yourselves
and families from want. Whatever the future
has in store the contemplation of it will be
more satisfactory to every prudent, far-seeing
person, if there is a good supply of the needful
on hand in the form of breadstuff.
	Whatever lack there may be, there is none
to equal the scarcity of the food which strength-
ens and imparts life. If history repeats itself,
which wise men aver, and the masses of man-
kind believe, then somewhere in the future, as
in the past, will famine with all her train of
attendant miseries and consequences, spread
blight and desolation in her path.
	This people were driven out beyond the
boundaries of civilization by the hands of their
enemies, but God works in a mysterious man,
ner, and who knows, but even as Joseph was
sold into Egypt by wicked and false brethren,
yet eventually it proved their salvation, and
he their temporal savior, to preserve them and
all their father's household from starvation by
famine; even so, perhaps, may the Lord prove
His watchcare over this people, by giving to
them the opportunity of heaping coals of fire
on the heads of those who sought to betray
them into the power of savages and wild
beasts.
	It has been prophesied, scores of times, to
different ones of the Latter-day Saints, that
their relatives and friends who cast them out
and scorned them, should yet come begging
for bread; then be wise, and prepare yourselves
with bread in abundance to feed the hungry.
It is something that will always be marketable
and there is little danger of its becoming a
drug in the market even should there be plen-
tiful harvests in the future for seven years to
come; surely there is as much faith and confi-
dence in the word of the Lord now, as there
was in the days of the Egyptians.
	The sisters have had the opportunity given
them to lead out in this noble work; let it not
be said they lack ability or ingenuity to devise
methods of action. [handwritten] E. B. WELLS


