PROPHECY OR VISION.

	The following prophecy, handed us for
publication, may be a sort of testimony that
there are others who are looking forward
to the fulfillment of ancient prophecy be-
sides the Latter-day Saints.
	WHAT MAY HAPPEN IN LESS THAN A
		HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.
	First.—About the year A. D. 1848, or '49,
there will be in Europe a revolution, either
in France, Italy, or Austria, and then com-
mences the "beginning of the end" spoken
of by the Prophets. New governments
will arise on the earth, and we shall have
wars and rumors of wars.
	Second.—Scarcely has the turmoil in Eu-
rope expired before our own America will
have taken up the tumult, and about A. D.
1860 or 1861 there will be a division in the
United States. The South will go to her-
self, and then war, famine and pestilence
will stalk abroad over the land—murders,
arson, incest, theft, and all other crimes
will be rife in the land. Hope will depart
from every human breast. Governments
that had been deemed impregnable will
topple and fall; but the end is not yet.
	Third.—Thirty years from the "begin-
ning of this end" will pass away, and upon
the broad earth there will exist no Govern-
ment such as now exists, or which may ex-
ist up to that time—all will be overturned
—all will be destroyed. Those then on
earth will return to the Government of the
Patriarchs, and the sire of many descend-
ants will rule and govern as in the days of
Abram, Isaac and Jacob, and servants and
slaves likewise will exist as in those days.
	Fourth.—Forty-five years of this Patri-
archial rule. and then comes the glorious
day—the Millennium—and the return of
Jesus Christ to the earth, here to reign as
temporal Prince three hundred and sixty-
five thousand years. Happy is he who
may be on earth, or who may have arisen
from the earth, fitted as a subject to live
under the mild government of such a Prince
and King.
							AMINADAB.
	Delaware River, 3rd mo., A. D. 1780.
	P. S. The above item, originally published
in the "Pioche Record, by one John Smith, he
avers to be an old American M. S. S. of the Re-
volutionary period.


