[COLUMN 2]

older, and especially if they marry, they'll
find a balm for every wound, and that, like
the hero or heroine of a romance, the
troubles are all ended, and there will be not
more need of exertion to make onesself hap-
py, for bliss supreme will be the crowning
portion of married life.
	Now we would not for the world shatter
your little castle of fairy splendor, nor dim
its lustrous brilliancy, but we would only
ask you to be thoroughly consistent with
yourself and see whether you have so disci-
plined yourself in body and mind as to fit
you to fill a sphere more advanced than the
one in which you are now graded. Every
step we take higher requires careful prepa-
ration, and attention to its higher laws, just
as surely as does preferment in a school.
Our whole life is symbolical of a school; it
may well be termed one. True marriage is
a rank above single life, and is indeed to be
desired, but do not think for one moment
that you will not need to exercise all your
faculties to render you competent to fill
this higher position; just so surely as you
enter it without careful consideration of all
it involves, and a correct understanding of
its being another prolific source of manifold
developments, so surely will you have to
feel the sting of disappointment.
	If you have heretofore been nursed in
the lap of indulgence, and had every desire
of your childish heart gratified, then be-
fore you take into your keeping the affection
and welfare of either a husband, or wife,
pause—for you must be prepared to exer-
cise self-denial—school yourself well in this,
if you would not shed many bitter tears of
sorrow, if not remorse, when you find the
one to whom you have given so much (your
dear untutored self) requires you to be con-
sistent.
	My dear girls, don't think I am overdraw-
ing the picture. There is a way to be hap-
py, certainly, but that girl who marries to
become more happy, who does not know
how to create happiness in her father's house
is but illy prepared to make it in her new
and untried sphere. Cultivate all those
graces of mind and character that are en-
durable, not the "arts and wiles that charm"
but the solid and sterling qualities which
enhance the value of every good and true
woman, and are a more precious dower to
bring to the marriage altar than the wealth
of Croesus.
	I do not say men or women are to blame,
but that many erroneous ideas are entertained
on this subject; girls are very apt to think,
and they are not in fault, custom has taught
them, that their husbands must overlook all
their imperfections and weaknesses, that the
very fact of maternity is sufficient to entitle
them to all compassion and sympathy; but
how is it? Women find themselves totally
unqualified to enter upon these arduous du-
ties, which come perhaps almost unawares
upon them, and then they are ready enough
to come to mother, or aunt, or some good
friend they have proved, for advice and
comfort. Thank God for the advancement
of knowledge and wisdom and light upon
these subjects; that mothers have at last
realized the necessity of training their
daughters to comprehend the high and holy
offices of wife and motherhood.
	The idea that marriage of itself is to lift a
woman all at once above the necessity of
exertion, and that through this means one
obtains ease and happiness, cannot too soon
be dispelled, for such a delusion is sure to
result in unhappiness, domestic discomfort
and wretchedness, if not divorce. These
feelings are entirely incompatible with or-
dinary marriage relations. It is doubtless
owing to the false notions of complete and

