HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A good method for cooking rice, is to first put
it in cold water with a little salt, put on the fire
and let it boil five minutes, then drain and put
on a dish in a steamer and let it steam one hour.
	To clean glasses, bottles and decanters brightly,
break a few raw egg shells in the article to be
cleaned, with a little cold water,—if greasy, warm
water, and a little soda; shake well, rinse with
plenty of cold water, and the effect is perfect.
This is a common practice in France.
	In preserving, it may not be generally known
that to boil the fruit some time before adding the
sugar is very economical, because the bulk ot the
scum arising from the fruit is free from sugar;
boiling without a cover allows the water to evap-
orate, and so the fruit is firmer and better flavor-
ed.
	Veal Cutlets.—Cut the veal in good, fair sli-
ces, salt and pepper them and dip each slice in a
well-beaten egg, then in rolled crackers or bread
crumbs. fry in a good supply of hot butter or lard
until they are a delicate brown. Some prefer
them partly fried first and then covered with the
bread crumbs.
	Cement that will render india-rubber adherent
to glass or metal: pulverize some shellac and then
soften it in ten times its weight of strong am-
monia, this will become a transparent mass, and
after keeping it some little time it will become a
fluid without the aid of hot water. In three or
four weeks the mixture is perfectly liquid and
when applied will soften the rubber; for cement-
ing the rubber sheet, or the material in any shape,
to metal, glass or other surfaces, this cement is
strongly recommended.
	Pressed Beef.—Pickle the best piece of a thick
flank of beef in one pound of salt, and one ounce
of salt-petre; let it remain one week turning it
every day, after that add one half ounce of cloves,
the same of allspice, black pepper and coarse su-
gar; then let it remain a fortnight. Boil it with
onions, or whatever seasoning is preferred; until
it is tender; then place between flat dishes with
a heavy weight upon it, and let remain a day or
so; cut it when ready for use, the size of the dish
you wish to use, and pour over it jelly of what-
ever kind preferred, cover it over, and when served
it will present a very tempting appearance.
	Veal Pie.—Take a breast of veal, stew with
just enough water to cover it and season with pep-
per, salt and celery. When the veal is done, slip
the bones from the meat and remove the meat,
leaving the bones in the liquor the veal was stew-
ed in, so as to make a strong jelly. Take your
pie-dish, lay in it slices of veal, and between the
veal at intervals, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs,
and balls made of sausage meat, sprinkled over
with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, pour the
gravy in the dish and ornament the top with
leaves cut out of pastry, brush it over with the
yolks of a raw egg and let it bake for one hour, or
untilth e gravy boils, and the crust is firm on the
top. Some prefer ham mixed with the veal.


