	BY MADAME FANNY RAYMOND RITTER.

	Notwithstanding the eulogiums of the
Greeks, music, as we understand it scarcely
had an existence prior to the establishment
of Christianity; its feeble germ, nursed in the
rocks and caverns where the early Chris-
tians took refuge, fanned by the sighs and
watered by the tears of the persecuted, de-
veloped into existence as the Ambrosian
and Gregorian-chants, and spread through
storm and transition into the life of the
people, as the troubadour, minstrel, and
folk-songs, and dance music, until it gradu-
ally became what it now is, the reigning art
of the present day, the most consummate
flower of modern civilization and artistic
culture.
	It is the most transcendental of all arts,
for it is a purely metaphysical outward man-
ifestation of the inward soul; it is the most
complex of all arts—vague, indefinite and
yet infinitely precise; it is the most ideal of
all arts, for—almost a religion in itself—it
is the exquisite embodiment of unshaken
faith in continual progress towards perfec-
tion. In the evanescent, intangible form of
music, from material the smallest, from pos-
sibilities the most vast, the human heart
and mind has gradually evoked a language,
an art, a science, compared with which the
miraculous, fabulous creations of the ma-
gicians of antiquity appear pale, cold,
empty, and meaningless.
	Woman's practical career as a musician
only began with the invention of the opera,
about 1600. It was not until her superior-
ity as an actress and singer had been unde-
niably and triumphantly established on the
stage, that she was allowed to resume her
musical participation in church services.
	And what a position as an artiste, wo-
man has established for herself during the
past two hundred years! The very names
of those songstresses whose fame still echoes
through the halls of musical history, are in
themselves romances, recalling, as they do,
the charms, gifts, caprices, accomplishments,
charities, errors, virtues, and adventures of
their possessors.
	One of the first of these ladies mentioned
in history, is Vittoria Archilei, a musician
at the court of Florence in 1600, who took
part in the first opera that was represented
in public. Who has not heard of Fanstina
Bordoni, born in 1700, a songstress in whose
name medals were struck, while societies
were founded in honor of her! Her rival,
Regina Mingotti, whose portrait, painted
by Rosalba, now stands in the Dresden gal-
lery, astonished Dr. Budney by her fresh-
ness of voice at an advanced age, as well as
by her power of conversing equally well in
five languages. Madame Mara, the favor-
ite singer of Frederick the Great, and Marie
Antoinette, delighted Europe for nearly fif-
teen years; Caterina Gabrielli, the pupil of
Metastasio, excited her audiences to alter-
nate frenzies of admiration and anger by
her voice, beauty, and caprice. It was she,
who, when Catherine of Russia complained
that her salary was higher than that of the
Field Marshals of the Empire, replied
"Let your Majesty try to make the Field
Marshals sing in my place, then!" Mad-
ame Catalani, born in 1779, possessed a
trumpet like power of voice. In London,
she received twelve hundred dollars for
singing the solo in "God Save the King,"
and twelve thousand dollars for assisting

[Column 2]
at a single musical festival. Mrs. Billing-
ton was accused by the superstitious Neapol-
itans, of causing, by her wonderful voice;
the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 1794;
M. Thiers has translated her autobiography
into French. Mrs. Sheridan, wife of the
dramatist, charmed by her poetic gifts and
personal graces, almost as much as with her
thrilling voice.
	Though we find little trace of Woman in
the annals of composition, that songstresses
existed, capable of interpreting the works of
composers in an almost independent man-
ner, the scores of old operas prove. In
many of these, the melody, is reduced to a
mere thread, in order to give the songstress
perfect liberty in varying the theme accord-
ing to the exigencies of the action, and the
passion of the poetry she had to interpret.
And what may she not have accomplished
in a secondary character, as friend, consoler,
inspirer of the composer? Would Goethe
have accomplished all that he did, if, in his
Weimar circle, he had not found such wo-
men as the Duchess Amalie, Mdme. von
Stein, Bettina, and the singer Corona
Schraeter? Who does nor recall the exalted
friendships of Vittoria Colonna and Mich-
ael Angelo, of the Countess of Albany and
Alfieri, and many other interesting exam-
ples? So, among the friends of the compo-
sers, Mdme. von Breuning was a sort of in-
tellectual mother to Beethoven, in her kind-
ness to and care for him; Mdlle Boselli was
Haydn's inspirer; Mozarts wife, whose
name, Constance, he gave to the heroine
of his opera, "The elopement from the se-
raglio," was his best friend; the closest in-
tellectual comradeship existed between
Mendelssohn and his sister, Mdme. Hen-
sel; and the list of women who have made
a beneficent and inspiring use of their in-
fluence over composers, is a long one, through
less so than that of the lovers and friends
of the poets and painters.
	It is, nevertheless, difficult for the most
ardent advocate of Woman's progress, to
point to such a galaxy of celebrities among
feminine composers, as may be placed, with-
out losing their brilliancy, beside the names
that add lustre to womanhood in other
branches of art, and in literature. In com-
position we cannot boast stars of such pre-
eminent distinction as Sappho, Aspasia; Hel-
oise, Vittoria Colonna, Madame de Stael,
Dora d'Istria, Mrs. Siddons,, Fernan Cabal-
lero, Miss Cushman, Miss Bronte, Rosa
Bonheur, Miss Thompson, Mrs. Browning,
Mrs. Lewes, and the rest. The list of fem-
inine composers is a brief one, and most of
its members are now living. There was
Leopoldine Blahetka, daughter of a profes-
sor of mathematics in Vienna, a famous pi-
aniste who published more than seventy
songs and pianoforte pieces, some of which
were greatly admired by Beethoven; Jos-
ephine Lang, the friend of Mendelsshon;
who composed many charming songs; Mad-
ame Hensel, the sister of Mendelsshon;
Louise Puget, whose vocal romances en-
joyed an enormous popularity in France;
Elise Polko, who, carefully trained as a
singer, lost her voice prematurely, and
wrote many pretty novelettes, and now ap-
pears before the world as a song composer;
Madame Dolby and Virginia Gabriel, the
English ballad writer. Madame Schurman
and Madame Garcia have both composed
some fine works, though few in number.
But women have not hitherto realized what
long years of severe mental discipline and
scientific training are necessary in order to
master the art of composition. This is not
much to the discredit of their patience and
courage, for very few among musical stu-
dents of the other sex are, in America; will-

[Column 3]
ing to devote themselves to such a self-sac-
rificing study; too many, when they begin
to understand the amount of labor required,
become discouraged and abandon it; and
none among them yet, have acquired such
thorough early training as will insure per-
fect development to their talent for compo-
sition, and lasting fame to its results.
Mathematics, acoustics, psychology, foreign
languages and literature, the theory and
practice of many instruments, as well as
the science of music itself, must all be mas-
tered by the composer, and gradually,
through the application and assimilation of
long years of study and practice, become
the "second nature" of his mind.
	Genius, talent, irrespective of sex too,
receives the highest emoluments and hon-
ors in this art; then let Woman, whose suc-
cess has been so signal as an exponent of
vocal art,—the art of passion, persuasion;
emotion—make a further effort, now that all
opportunities are open to her, and endeavor
to compose for immortality. But, to do this,
she must abandon the idea that composi-
tion is an affair of instinct; the highest nat-
ural gifts demand the highest cultivation,
and without it they are unproductive, in-
significant, useless. It may be some en-
couragement to the aspiring student to
know that the grandest original idea of a
Handel or a Beethoven demanded more per-
fect working out, more patient polishing,
than the smallest fancy that issues from
the brain of the ballad writer demands.
	And let not women overlook one of the
most beautiful qualities of music; it pene-
trates not only to the intelligence, but to
the heart also, thus widening and vivifying
the faculties, and rendering them better
prepared, by sympathy, to receive humane
and elevated impressions. For this reason
we shall find music one of the most import-
ant factors in the coming era of universal
civilization, brotherhood, and equality.
Music possesses a lofty ethical significance;
the very heart of humanity beats in its
rhythm; and heart speaks to heart even
more completely than brain to brain. Music,
too, is based on the social sentiment of
mankind; it is the annihilator of egotism,
the most complete expositor of the life of
mankind in unison, the art whose truest
mission is to express the warmest, noblest,
most generous of human feelings,—love,
faith, patriotism; the art of order, unity,
harmony; the art that is destined to become
in some far distant but glorious day, the
universal language of humanity.


