STORE UP GRAIN.

	AT THE regular General Retrenchment
meeting, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday Nov. 11, the subject of
arrangements in regard to the Grain Question
now being agitated, was brought before the


meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow, who was
presiding over the meeting in the absence of
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, proposed that
the officers of the several Relief Socities act
in the capacity of a committee to collect means
to buy and store up grain; that besides these
committees of separate organizations in order
to facilitate the work, there should also be a
Central Committee for counsel and reference
and to take cognizance of all these grain mat-
ters, that there might be perfect order and a
united movement for the universal good of all
interested. She read a communication from
Bishop R. W. Burton in respect to storing the
grain in the General Tithing Office. The dif-
ferent wards that have not suitable storehouses
can store their grain there, but will be expect-
ed to attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare time.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed to the assembly,
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, as chairman of the
Central Committee; no objection being made,
the motion was seconded and carried unani-
mously. It was then moved that the chair-
man choose a committee of two to act with her
in this capacity constituting the Central Com-
mittee; accordingly Miss Eliza R. Snow and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith were selected and
the unanimous vote of the assembly given to
sustain them.
	It is not possible for too much to be said on
this important subject to inspire zeal and ear-
nest efforts in the matter; and let every exer-
tion be made to secure grain immediately. The
business demands careful thought and consid-
eration, for it is one that involves great conse-
quences. That God will impart to his daugh-
ters great wisdom to aid them in this vast and
noble enterprise is our earnest and humble
prayer.
	The Central Committee will expect to be
kept posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements in the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled move-
ment, and a complete system of management.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


