HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG and party left
Salt Lake City Wednesday morning, Nov. 1,
enroute for St. George, and arrived at their des-
tination Friday evening, Nov. 10, all well and
having had a pleasant journey. The President
designs spending the winter in St. George.
	NO POSITIVE conclusion has been arrived
at as yet in regard to the presidential election.
It is one of the closest contests known. It is
impossible now to guess how the scale will turn.
As Utah has no voice in the matter she will
not in this crisis be able to render the country
any service, but should Utah become a State
her bearing would be a noticeable one, for her
people are united and they would by their con-
centrated efforts be a strong power for the side
they espoused.
	THE WOMEN of Utah are about to publish
a book representing them truthfully in the
past and present; this book will contain
many interesting incidents connected with the


[Column 1]
lives of different individuals who have been
extensively engaged in establishing and as-
sisting in building up, the church and king-
dom of God, and carrying out the sacred prin-
ciples and ordinances given by divine revela-
tion. The book will be written by Mr. E. W.
Tullidge author of the "Life of Brigham
Young, or Utah and Her Founders;" Mr. Tul-
lidge is a brilliant writer, a man naturally gift-
ed with such qualities as make an author en-
tertaining, and has a very clear and happy style
of portraying his subjects. It is expected the
book will be published almost immediately.
Some chapters have been already written.
The women of Utah should all have an interest
in this book, as it will probably throw alto-
gether a different light upon their lives and
motives of actions.
	A MOST DISTRESSING accident occurred in
this city, Friday morning, Nov. 10, to a little
boy about four years of age; son of R. V. Mor-
ris; nineteenth ward. He, with his brother, a
little older than himself was crossing the street
from the corner of the Deseret News Building,
to the opposite one, and were trying to avoid
being run over by a wagon just then passing the
car track, when the car came along just catch-
ing the child and throwing him under the
wheels; one wheel passed over his legs just be-
low the knee; one leg was almost severed and
the other very badly cut. The broken leg was
amputated almost directly by Dr. Benedict, to
whose office the child was immediately con-
veyed. All the assistance possible was ren-
dered momentarily, and the sad news carried
to the afflicted parents. It is expected the
child will recover, as he is to all appearance as
comfortable as possible under the circumstan-
ces. We extend to the agonized parents our
heartfelt sympathies and trust our Heavenly
Father will soften the sudden blow, and re-
store their dear one to health.
	It is said by those who were witnesses of this
sad accident, no blame could be rightfully at-
tached to the driver of the car, who is over-
whelmed with sorrow that such a fearful catas-
trophe should have occurred.
	ON MONDAY evening Nov. 6th, the regular
monthly meeting of the Sunday School Union
was held in the Council House. The meeting
was crowded and great interest was manifested
in the subjects discussed. One item brought
before the meeting was the raising of means
for the Floral Committee, to be used to decor-
ate the Tabernacle for the yearly Sunday
School Jubilee. One scheme proposed was to
raise the money by means of a party, but as
this seemed impracticable in consideration of
various circumstances, it was decided to raise
it by donations of five dollars each, from the 
several ward Sunday Schools; and as most of
these number about one hundred pupils, it
would only amount to about five cents apiece.
The subject of suitable singing books, and ap-
propriate books for pupils was also dilated up-
on, but no definite conclusion arrived at. This
subject is worthy the attention of all who are
interested in the advancement of the kingdom
of God. The music of any people is an inspir-
ation, and the children of Zion should receive
the highest cultivation in this inspirational
art. There is a pathos and melody imparted
by the songs of little children which often-
times strikes a chord in the human soul, where
all the eloquence of oratory has failed to find
access. Then this people of all the nations of
[-]he earth should have songs, hymns, and an-
thems adapted to the ideas and principles
which they hold so sacred.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-

[Column 2]
tion met at the Firemen's Hall, Wednesday,
Nov. 1st. Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. young said that the reel had arrived
and was now being worked in Logan, by an
Italian lady, who, previous to coming to Utah,
had worked at the business from early youth,
and was a first-class reeler; also that Miss Mary
A. Rockwood had gone from this city to take
lessons, so as to be able to reel silk here and
teach others, and thus extend it through all
the settlements in the Territory. Mrs. Young
was in hopes that she would have some speci-
mens of silk at our next meeting. Now was
the time to plant out our trees or cuttings.
She urged those who were doing so to put
out a few more than they needed for them-
selves, as there might be others that would
want some, and thus keep extending this
branch of home industry.
	Mrs. Barney said that we had got a good
foundation laid, and hoped that we would keep
on building until it became a mighty struct-
ure. She felt satisfied with what had already
been done; said it was reported that the so-
ciety were only giving one dollar per pound
for cocoons, which was a mistake; they are
giving two dollars per pound.
	Mrs. E. Baker said that she was used to
working among silk, and could teach seven
branches from the cocoon.	The question was asked, where can we get
our trees and cuttings?
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that she had been
informed that Mr. John Reading, of this city,
could furnish them at very reasonable prices.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Wednesday
in December, at this place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
		DEATH OF COL. JACKSON.
	A dispatch from St. George announces the
death there, Monday morning Nov. 1st, of
Col. Alden A. M. Jackson. On the 15th
of last February he was first struck with ap-
poplexy, which affiiction has now proved fatal.
Col. Jackson was a Colonel in the regular army
under Gen. Scott. and subsequently located in
Southern California, where he practiced law as
an attorney. In 1860 or [-]61 he removed to St.
George, where he resided up to the time of his
death. He was an intelligent, highly respect-
ed citizen, whose death will be mourned by
many warm friends. He was sixty nine years
of age.—Ex.


