BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Order, thou eye of action! wanting thee,
	Wisdom works hoodwink'd in perplexity;
	Entangled reason trips at every pace,
	And truth, bespotted, puts on error's face.
		AARON HILL. 
	Many inferences are drawn in relation to
women as practical and methodical mana-
gers in business affairs. It seems the world
are only just becoming conscious that wo-
men possess the faculties to qualify them to
adjust such matters as relate in a general
way to the commonplace transactions, by
which trade and commerce are carried on.
The idea is a novel one, to some who have
not been cognizant of the growing status of
woman in relation to finance, and when any
phenomena in illustration of the fact of wo-
man's practicability clearly elucidates itself,
men open their eyes in wonder, and imme-
diately set their wits to work to solve the
problem in some exceptional way, instead
of attributing it to the real genius or inher-
ent qualities of woman's competency. It
seems perfectly consistent that women
should be able to arrange and carry out sys-
tematically and effectively plans of action
which would operate successfully in business
affairs. The many phases of woman's house-
hold work require order, method, prompt-
ness and executive ability; if women did
not understand, by habit and intuition, the
easiest, quickest and best modes of dispatch,
they could never bring quiet, peace and
harmony to the domestic habitation. How
much careful study, thought and practice
are brought into requisition by the compli-
cation of circumstances which every house-
hold develops. All these different entan-
glements by being unraveled, smoothed
and harmonized teach useful lessons, which
to the woman who knows how to apply the
knowledge she gains, so as to make it a
means to an end, works out or solves the
great problem of commercial interests by
the application of her own private expe-
rience in domestic economy. Who is there
that has to practise more thorough disci-
pline, or be more accurate in management
than the woman who is supervisor of her

