DIVERSIONS.

	WHY are troubles like babies?—Because
they get bigger by nursing.
	THE saying, "Excuse haste and a bad
pen," has been attributed to a pig who ran
away from home.
	SOME one who believes that "brevity is
the soul of wit" writes, "Don't eat stale
Q-cumbers. They'll W-up." Other speci-
mens. "4tograph," (photograph.) "11-
worth;" (Leavenworth.) '10-a-C," (Tennes-
see.)   "Y-&." (Wyandotte.)
	WHAT a strain that is!" said Mrs. Part-
ington, as she heard an air from "Lucia"
sung in the highest style by a young lady
where she was visiting. "Yes," was the re-
sponse; "it is operatic!" "Upper attic?"
questioned she. "I should think it was
high enough to be on the top of the house."
	"WELL Sare," said a Philadelphia Cen-
tennial restaurant keeper, shrugging his
shoulders, when a customer, from Arkan-
sas demurred to paying a dollar for a cup of
coffee and a roll, "ze price he may luke
large—zat I admete, but zen, sare, reflect
zat you nafer have anozzer chance like zese
for one huntret years."
	SELF DISCIPLINE.—Costly apparatus and
splendid cabinets have no magical power to
make scholars. In all circumstances, a man
is, under God, the master of his own mind.
The Creator has so constituted the human
intellect that it can only grow by its own
action; and by its own action and free will,
it will certainly and necessarily grow.
Every man must, therefore, educate him-
self. His book and teacher are but helps;
the work is his. A man is not educated un-
til he has the ability to summons, in an
emergency, all his mental powers in vigor-
ous exercise to effect its proposed object.
It is not the man who has seen most who
can do this; such a one is in danger of being
borne down like a beast of burden, by an
overloaded mass of other men's thoughts.
Nor is it the man who can boast of native
vigor and capacity. The greatest of all
warriors in the seige of Troy had not the
pre-eminence because nature had given him
strength and he carried the longest bow,
but because self-discipline had taught him
to bend it.


[Column 1]
		WOOLCOTT'S
	PAIN PAINT
			IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing.		Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises. Wounds, Colds,
				Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
		A HOME PREPARATION.
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's [-]th Ward
Cooper's 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

