[COLUMN 2]

generation that women have obtained a rec-
ognized and a thoroughly respected posi-
tion in literature. The term "blue stock-
ing" applied to all women who used the
pen, did not lose its sting until a very re-
cent period. And it was more than hinted
that such women not only had ink-blacked
fingers, uncombed hair, and slipshod feet,
but that they must necessarily be neglect-
ful of all recognized womanly duties.
	Thirty years ago there were two or three
woman editors in the world. To-day there
are scores of them; while reporters and spec-
ial correspondents of the same sex are like
daisies of the field for multitude.
	The field of literature is conquered for
women. There are no longer bars or ob-
structions of any sort in the way. A wo-
man who has anything to say, is privileged
to say it; and if it is worth hearing, the
world will lend an attentive ear.
	Women also tell us that because they are
wives and mothers they have neither time
nor opportunity, What folly! Have not our
best women-writers been wives and moth-
ers? And are not our men-writers husbands
and fathers? If they are not they should be, if
they would gain the clearest, truest percep-
tion of human affairs, so that they may be
qualified to speak words of wisdom to the
world.
	First of all it will be well to disabuse wo-
men in general, of their erroneous ideas
concerning a literary career. A woman
must not expect to find any play when she
adopts literature for a profession. A prac-
tical writer leads a life of BONA FIDE drud-
gery. She may, now and then, find her pet
poems, or finely written stories or essays, ac-
cepted and paid for; but if she would make
an actual living of the business she mnst
devote herself to it, just as she would to 
dress-making or dish-washing.  The profes-
sional writer must compel the inspiration,
or write without it.  A woman who writes
for a living must hold herself in readiness
at any time and at all times. She must be
ready to write upon any subject, and in any
style. She must send a poem by return
mail, if required; or write up a whole geo-
graphical division, without previous knowl-
edge of it, and with nothing but a guide-
book and a dictionary of dates for referen-
ces; and yet have her article interesting,
and read as if unlimited information was
withheld solely for want of space. If she
be a reporter, she must be able to write on
the wing, and in the midst of crowds and
confusion, which would bewilder the intel-
ligence of either the ordinary man or wo-
man. If she be a correspondent she must
be at her pen, headache or no headache, when
her more favored companions are resting
from the fatigues of journeying or sight-
seeing. She cannot afford to be either
wearied or ill until after the inevitable let-
ter has been written and posted.
	Next to be considered is the kind of
training a woman needs. She must have
had experience in life. Without it she will
have nothing of value to offer. We never
learn from the experience of others as we
do from our own.	There-
fore until we shall have had a moral, emo-
tional or intellectual history, we can have
little to say worth hearing.

	There is no trade or profession which re-
quires so long practice before it becomes re-
munerative as that of literature. A wo-
man would have time to learn any manual
occupation twice, while she is preparing
herself for a frequently doubtful, and al-
ways precarious career in literature; I am
speaking absolute truth; and I wish every

