AARON'S ROD.

Hist! Jehovah speaks! Moses, his servant,
With his brother Aaron, bend to listen
To that voice, from which love had cast out fear—
They, waiting to receive, and then obey
The mandates from the voice of God:
"Lo! a miracle will Pharaoh ask of thee—
Then say to Aaron, take thy rod, and cast
It down before King Pharaoh's feet, and lo!
It shall become a serpent, 'neath his gazing eye."

Enthroned sits Pharaoh, servants waiting round,
When lo! the servants of a higher King,
A greater Potentate—but drop at once
All vain comparison, where none can be!
The servants of the God of earth and heaven,
The King of kings and Lord of Lords, present
Themselves before proud Egypt's king,
Bearing an edict from that God he brav'd,
But which he cannot with impunity resist.
No pompous forms, or courtly etiquette
Precede these men of God! but prompt to do,
surely and simply, the bidding of their King.
With brow serene, and calm, majestic mien
The brother of Moses, Aaron, lifts his arm,
Nerv'd with the Spirit of the living God!
And hurls his rod before King Pharaoh's eyes;
E'en that proud, stubborn spirit quails before
The mighty reptile springing into life
From out the mystic rod that left his hand;
To spring to life, alone its mission seemed,
And there it lay before king Pharaoh's eye,
And the eyes of Pharaoh's servants, alive:
A living, panting, breathing, monster thing,
Waiting the mission it was sent to fill
Then rose the passionate, wicked, daring king,
And called his sorcerers and his wisest men,
Magicians of proud Egypt's magic realm,
And bade them use their cabalistic charms;
In like manner, they with their enchantments,
Cast down, every man to earth, his rod;
When lo! they sprang to life, and serpents they
	became.
Marvelous power of infernal art!
The mind can scarcely grasp the horror
Such a scene could throw around, and cause
The stoutest heart and eye to shake and quail.
Pharaoh exults, and feels his art equals
The God of Moses, and of Aaron too.
But wait! not long has he for exultation
Before that serpent God has sent, by him
Chosen and ordained, and fitted by Himself
To show His wonders to the world of men,
The mighty reptile opens wide his jaws
And swallows up the puny worms around!
That God still lives! His servants live to serve
His bidding, and to work His will; and He
Again has spoken, in these latter times,
And in another dispensation—Yes,
Pharaohs still are on the earth, and Moses
And his brother Aaron also have their types
Upon this earth of God! Yes, blessed truth!
Holy writ abounds in types and parables—
And in my simple mind a thought springs up,
Which takes a form embodied, palpable—
I see with Daniel's eye—or rather,
Reading him, I drink into his spirit,
And clearly see that in the Latter days
A kingdom shall arise, and stand forever!
And that it shall consume and break in pieces
All other kingdoms, as the rod of Aaron
Which became a living thing that swallow'd up
The counterparts and counterfeits of Satan.
So shall the last days' work gather up
All things in One, and that One shall be Eternal,
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City.


