[COLUMN 2]

own household affairs? The work which
devolves upon the mother and wife requires
the most perfect method in arranging so as
to ensure any degree of home-comfort, and
it will bring to its aid tact, energy and
skill, in order to evoke an organization com-
plete in the fulfilment.
	Then through this very process do women
become initiated into the very channels
which are the most available for the trans-
action of business; their capacities expand
with their facilities for action, and the very
elements which bring to the home circle the
genius of an inspiration for making every-
thing adaptable are those which will best
assist women in the transaction of affairs
which will eventually help them to estab-
lish industries and manufacturies for the
general interest of communities.
	The arrangement of family and house-
hold affairs requires as nice order and meth-
od, as does the management of a store, or
an office. In this respect there would no
doubt be as much difference in women, as
there is in men, and probably no more.
The woman who is not prompt and ener-
getic, is not the one who will succeed in
business, and in any and all of the private
walks in life will always cause more or less
confusion, dissatisfaction and dislikes. She
consumes the time of others and gives them
reason for thinking that she looks upon them
as not of sufficient consequence to make her
punctual; method is the soul of business;
and order in every and all departments of
business, or of life, is one of the most im-
portant matters to be impressed upon man
or woman. Pope says:
		"Order is heaven's first law; and this confess'd,
		Some are, and must be, greater than the rest."
	We often hear it said, that "to the busi-
ness man, time is money," and to the busi-
ness woman time is money, and so is
method.
	That there are women who look upon
their time as of very little consequence there
is no doubt, but are there not thousands of
men who waste their own time and that of
others in a more shameful and wicked man-
ner than women do? One need not go far
to prove this assertion; here on the corners
of the streets, in the stores, the saloons, the
hotels, on fences, steps, everywhere that
there is room enough for a knot of men to
collect, they are in the habit of gathering
to talk, smoke and so forth. There are
some who never seem to do anything else.
Men are very fond of saying women get to-
gether (even in their meetings) to gossip
and backbite, but in the name of common
sense, what do so many men huddle togeth-
er in little caucauses at the corners of streets,
etc., for? To discuss politics and the state
of the government, and a variety of other
interesting topics, so they say; but in my
opinion they would be doing the world a
great favor by going to work; and if they
cannot find any other employment, they
could help their wives, sisters or mothers
to cook their food and tend the babies, for
women not only never have any idle time,
but are often worked beyond their strength.
	There are a few individuals who summer
and winter may be seen loitering around
corners; wherever the sun shines in winter,
and where there is a shade in summer; how

