[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 208 | General Feature | A Springtime Buffet | Mary J. Wilson]
A Springtime Buffet CRAB TEA BUNS Y% Ib. Butter Y% lb. Mild processed cheese 1 can crab meat (8 ounces) Make small size hamburger buns and split. Melt butter and cheese together and blend in crab meat. Spread on hamburger buns. Prepare ahead and put under broiler the last minute. CHICKEN BISCUIT FINGERS 1 c. Chopped cooked chicken % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 beaten egg 1 tbsp. Milk Combine chicken, salt, lemon juice, parsley, and mayonnaise. Make rolls of mixture about the size of a small pickle. Make half of a 2-crust plain pastry recipe. Roll pastry % inch thick. Cut into two-inch squares. Wrap chicken mixture in pastry then press the ends tightly with a fork. Prick top. Brush with egg and milk mixture and bake in hot oven (400°) for 8 to 10 minutes. (Makes about 50.) LEMON SQUARES Y2 c. Butter Ya C. Powdered sugar lc. Flour Mix and pat into a 72 x 11 inch pan. Bake 10 minutes at 350°. Filling 2 eggs, beaten 1 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Flour ¥2 tsp. Baking powder juice of 2 lemons and rind, if desired Spread on top of the mixture you baked first and bake for 25 minutes at 300° Icing 2 tbsp. Butter 3 tbsp. Milk 12 c. Powdered sugar vanilla Heat butter and milk and add powdered sugar and vanilla. Spread on top of baked filling. Cool and cut into square or oblong pieces before removing from pan. 

209 March 1970

 PECAN TASTIES Cheese Pastry 1 3-0z. Package cream cheese %% c. Butter 1 c. Sifted flour Let cream cheese and butter soften to room temperature, then blend. Stir in flour. Chill slightly, about 1 hour, and shape into 2 dozen 1-inch balls. Place in tiny ungreased %-inch muffin cups. Press dough on bottom and sides of cups. Pecan Filling 1 egg % c. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Soft butter 1 tbsp. Vanilla dash salt +2 Cc. Broken pecans Beat together egg, sugar, butter, vanilla, and salt, until just smooth. Divide half the pecans among pastry-lined cups. Pour in egg mixture and top with remaining pecans. Bake in a slow oven (235°) 25 minutes or until filling is set. Cool. Remove from pans. ES TOFFEE 1 Ib. Whole pecans pecan pieces 22 Cc. Sugar Y2 c. Water Ya c. White corn syrup 1 Ib. Butter 2 Ibs. Milk chocolate Spread whole pecans on 2 cookie sheets. Cook sugar, water, corn syrup, and butter to 282° (between soft and hard crack) and pour over pecans. Break 1 Ib. Chocolate (chocolate bars may be used) into pieces and place on hot candy. When it begins to melt, spread evenly over the candy. Sprinkle finely chopped nuts over chocolate. Let stand until cool and turn over. Break second Ib. Chocolate into pieces and place on cold candy. Place in oven at lowest temperature spreading chocolate as it melts. Remove from oven and sprinkle with pecan pieces. Before candy sets hard, cut it in small squares. After candy cools completely it becomes brittle and can be broken into pieces. 210 CARAMELS 2 c. Whipping cream 1 c. Half-and-half 2 c. Sugar 1% c. White syrup 2 tsp. Salt nuts Combine whipping cream and _half-andhalf. Combine sugar, syrup, salt, and 1 cup of cream. Cook until large bubbles appear and mixture is slightly thick. Add second cup of cream and repeat. Stir just occasionally when first two cups of cream are cooking. Add third cup and cook until a firm ball will form (by firm, it means one that can be picked up and hold its shape), stirring constantly, as it burns easily at this stage. When done, stir bottom and sides of pan before pouring into buttered pan which has been sprinkled with nuts— pecans, black walnuts, or any available kind. Cool, cut into squares, and wrap in wax paper. Variation: Pour caramel into a jelly roll pan. Make a panocha recipe, adding pecan nuts, and spread evenly over the caramel. Roll up, cut in fourths, and stretch each piece to the length you want the rolls. Wrap in wax paper and aluminum foil. Caramel rolls will keep indefinately in the refrigerator. PECAN CRUNCH 1 c. Sugar 1 c. Butter Yq c. Water 1% c. Pecans Cook sugar, butter, and water on high heat in heavy pan, covered, until it starts to boil. Remove lid and stir constantly with wooden spoon until caramel color. Remove and add nuts. Pour in flat pan 13" x 12'. (It works well to melt the butter and then mix it with the sugar and water in a bowl. Pour into Presto cooker without the gauge for bringing to a boil. Cook to caramel color on high heat, which takes from 4% to 5 minutes after it starts to boil. Remove from heat and add pecan nuts then pour into pan to cool.) A Springtime Buffet MINTED HOLIDAY NUTS and boil to 224° (very soft ball). Add Y2 c. Commercial sour cream mint and nuts and stir rapidly with wood- 12 c. Sugar. En spoon. As soon as mixture starts to 8 drops oil of mint or 2 tsp. Mint whiten and become sugary pour out into extract jelly roll pan and, with two forks, separate 4c. (13 02.) walnut halves into single nuts. Cool and serve. May be Place cream and sugar in a saucepan placed inplastic bag or container and stir well. Set saucepan on low heat frozen. Yields 4 to 5 cups. PED A PART OF ME It may be in a crowded thoroughfare She leaves a bit of smile, her copper hair Catching flecks of sun, like shards of faith; Perhaps in evening's quiet, like a wraith Of loneness she will make the day's long strife A meaningful appraisal of her life; Or morning at the organ while her fingers Feel a melody, a song that lingers It may be little, great, or of no worth, Somewhere, this day A part of me in her walks on the earth. —Mabel Jones Gabbott ne Did THE FLOWERING DUNES (continued from page 207) By June the honey-colored sands are patterned with the glory of the warm rose-tinted blossoms and the rich, green leaves of those beautiful, trailing plants—the sand verbenas. Like a wide flowered quilt thrown over the dunes, they glow under the blue and white skies in that season that separates the springtime from the summer. The sand verbena, with its long tap roots deeply driven into the desert can survive endless drouth, but rains eventually rouse the slumbering desert into a brief but magnificent flowering, wakening seeds that may have slept for decades into a gold and flaming hour. Death and life forever commune on the shifting dunes. Here a fence dives into oblivion in a curve of sand. Flowers, lilywhite, pale orchid, blue, rose, ring an old weathered-to-silver tree trunk, so hollow it is almost lace. The nest of a kingbird hidden in the hollow, holds four brown and white eggs. Bettles leave the delicate embroidery of their goings and comings around the clusters of verbenas. And under al] pulse the eternal, beautiful scallops the whispering winds have carved in the sand. In the wide and wonderful "Great Basin," where Indians wandered and Spanish conquistadors rode followed by the waves of western migration—the explorers, fur trappers, gold miners, cattle men, sheep men, farmers, each with his dream of conquest or settlement—there are hidden remote dune-lands where nature spreads its unbelievable beauty unconquered by the might of man, giving its own particular radiance to the joy of the earth. 211 Mary Ellen McKune @ "TI believe it's time we gave those mulberry bushes something to do," Mama declared one evening, just as Michael and I were on our way to bed. It had been two years since Mama had bought the little bushes from President Brigham Young and planted them in the front yard close to the house. Now I was eight, and those "little" bushes had grown taller than I was. "What do you mean?" Michael and I both asked, but Mama would only say, "Those leaves will be delicious for our worms," and when we broke into giggles, she repeated "delicious, I say." If only it had been a joke! The next morning, as Mama was spooning the last of the oatmeal into baby Sukey's breakfast bowl, my six-year-old brother suddenly remembered her enigmatic statement of the night before. "Are you really going to get some worms, Mama? Like Sister Bigelow?" I sighed to myself. Little 212 brothers and their stupid questions! Worms, indeed! "Sit down and finish your breakfast, son." Father liked a calm table. Michael wriggled back. Onto the chair, but made no pretense of eating. His eyes were all for Mama. She sat down unhurriedly with her own bowl of oatmeal. "We're going to raise silkworms, Michael." That's when I started to listen. Mother didn't look twinkling and funny this morning, but serious when she talked of the worms. "Silkworms? What are they?" I asked. "I know!" Michael was up on his knees again. "They're big long!" Aghast, I think I dropped my spoon into my bowl. At least I remember hearing the clatter. "Are they really, Mama?" Father answered. "Actually, they are about three or four inches long at full growth—" "And they have fifty legs and they crawl all around eating up leaves and sometimes they get on people and scare girls!" "That's enough, Michael. If you re through, get on out to your garden work." Michael bounced out of his seat and skipped toward the kitchen door, singing something about "creepy, crawly worms." I followed more slowly, my stomach heavy and my two forefingers measuring off an imaginary three or four inches. After school, I was listlessly scuffing up dust from the street we lived on and wishing heartily that we had never joined in the whole neighborhood's planting of those old mulberry bushes! Now, when I got home, there would be a box of worms waiting for me! "Sara, come on!" Margery Johnson teased, slowing down beside me. "I said let's race, and you didn't even hear." "Margery, what are silkworms like? Michael said they are like big white caterpillars." "IT don't know." Margery pushed one of her gorgeous blonde plaits back over her shoulder as she swung into step beside me. "Maybe they eat silk." "That couldn't be it. We don't have enough silk to feed them. Besides, what would be the use of that?' I realized then that Margery didn't know any more than I did. "My mother said Brother Suddeth was bringing some over to our house today. A whole box of them!" "Ick! Worms!" Margery shuddered, then giggled. "I'm glad we re not getting any." She could afford to be lighthearted, I thought, as I pushed open the gate to our front yard. I didn't feel like answering her "Bye!" It sounded too cheerful, and my mind was on— "Mama's got the worms!" Michael shouted before I got the door half open. He was on his way out with a piece of bread and jam in his hand, and of course he swung the door wide open. "They're in the kitchen, want me to show 'em to you?" How obnoxious! "No, thank you." I felt my nose wrinkle; 

213 March 1970

 only a boy would be all excited over a bunch of worms! "Shut the door, Michael!" I yelled, but he was gone. AA11 I could think of as I hesitated in the cool front room was Michael's vivid description at breakfast. The worms filled my mind's eye, crawling about the kitchen. Three inches long, Father had said, fat and white, with legs like caterpillars. I was near tears when I put those thoughts aside and started for the kitchen, where I could hear the reassuring rattle of Mama's dinner pans. I set my books down carefully on Grandma's polished round table from England, and pushed open the kitchen door. I stepped into the sunshine of the room and casually looked around. Mama stood at the stove; the woodpile was nicely stacked; the pantry door was ajar, and I could hear baby Sukey playing in there. Nervously, I let my eyes travel over the bright room. There it was: an unfamiliar wooden box on the floor in the corner. I hurried to Mama. "Mama, are there really worms in that box?" Mother worked over her stove, with what seemed to be brave unconcern about the squirming, wriggling contents of the box in the corner. She smiled. "Look and see for yourself." The box was covered, and I stared at it in the corner by the pantry for so long that Mama turned around from her pots. "Why, Sara, what is the matter?" "IT don't want to look at them. They're crawling around in there, and they're ugly." Tears stung my eyelids, and I swallowed hard. Mama smiled again, and put 214 down her big wooden stirring spoon. "Sara, do you know what silkworms are for?" "No." I shook my head, and stifled a sniff. "Those worms are going to work for us. They are going to make fine, soft threads that we can have woven into silk." Mother stroked one of my short, brown braids. "You know how soft and lovely silk ribbons are." I nodded. "Well, now we can make our own silk. When those caterpillars make their cocoons, you and I and maybe Margery Johnson will unwind the cocoon threads and spin them together, and they will be lovely silk threads! Then we'll get some silk ribbons woven from them. And if we want more worms next year, there will be more silk, enough to make a bonnet, and lovely lace hankies, or even a silk dress!"' "A whole dress of silk?" I began to perk up and show a female interest. "Maybe. If those little worms work hard." Mama got up from her chair and moved toward the worm box. "Come and look at them now." "But they're not little." I hung back, remembering my sinking stomach. "They're fat, and squirmy." Mama had removed the cover of the box. Inside there seemed to be a lot of dark leaves, all cut up. "Come here, Sara." I moved slowly to the corner and peered into the open box. It seemed to contain nothing but the tangled mass of mulberry leaves. ''Where are the worms?" "Look harder." There seemed to be a little laugh in Mama's voice. I looked harder. There did seem to be faint black specks on the leaves. And something certainly seemed to have eaten pieces of them. Then one of the little black specks moved! With my curious nose almost in the box, the speck showed itself to be— a silkworm! "There they are! I can barely see them! Michael said they were big and ugly!" I scarcely looked at Mama, but I'm sure there was some relief on her face. "I'm glad we don't have that kind. Ours look like little ants!" Mama smiled again. "They've just hatched from tiny eggs. 'm going to let you feed them, every day." "May I?" I couldn't take my eyes off the little specks.