[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 178 | General Feature | Editorial— A Divine Gift | Marianne C. Sharp]
Divine Gift @ 'What would you do,"' Sarah earnestly inquired of Emma, "'if the Lord offered you a gift?'' Emma looked at Sarah as if she thought she had taken leave of her senses. ''Why, I'd accept it."' Sarah looked at her almost triumphantly. '"'You would, wouldn't you? Well, that is the way I feel about my membership in Relief Society. It is a gift to me, and a gift to you, and we both have accepted the gift. And it is a gift offered to every woman who is free from censure, and received by vote, and it is guaranteed to bring blessings of joy into a woman's life as she follows its teachings, and ministers to others." Relief Society is a divine gift and according to the natures of women. It draws out the sympathies of a woman's heart and expands her soul. Of first importance in a woman's life is her family. Relief Society helps her to perfect her family relationships. She receives encouragement and enlightenment through her attendance to honor the priesthood in her home and train up her children to do likewise. She studies the doctrines of the Church and strengthens her testimony—the wellspring to her actions. She learns better ways of housekeeping and homemaking. She learns to appreciate literature, music, and art, and prizes the culture found in her own home and beautifies and enriches the life of her family by introducing new refinement into the furnishings and daily family life. Relief Society is a catalyst which takes women of different nationalities, viewpoints, training, culture, even understanding, and, as the woman's auxiliary of the Church, the divine gift of a loving Father binds and welds them together. Recently a meeting was held of sisters from Hong Kong, Japan, Australia, Germany, Hawaii, New Zealand, South Africa, Great Britain, Bolivia, Brazil, and Norway. They were in 

, Secretary-Treasurer Salt Lake City for Relief Society Annual General Conference. The only barrier was difference in language. The same sisterly spirit animated every voice. They were all converts of the Church and had been given the Holy Ghost. Then they had welcomed and accepted the Father's divine gift to them. Through its teachings and practices they were progressing along the straight path. Not alone, but accompanied and encouraged by the great sisterhood of the Church. These sisters had been called to positions of leadership by the proper priesthood authorities. The mantle of authority had fallen upon them in their respective positions and among their native sisters. Ringing in their ears was the Prophet's voice: ''This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls."' A great responsibility rests upon the