[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 228 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents Deseret Industries Fashion Show October 27, 1969 Members of the Portneuf Stake Relief Society Board, left to right: Elda R. Neilsen, Homemaking Counselor; Ona D. Witaker, chorister; Belva T. Hadley, visiting teacher message leader; Dora M. Johnson, Education Counselor; Helen G. Toler, President; Melba H. Olsen, Magazine representative; Helen H. McDaniel, Secretary-Treasurer: Merna T. Larsen, homemaking leader: Erma H. Brimm, social relations class leader; Marie H. Tippetts, cultural refinement class leader; Margaret W. Symons, Spiritual living class leader. Sister Toler reports: "Our stake president had stressed that the sisters should patronize the Deseret Industries whenever possible. The sisters in the picture are wearing dresses which they purchased there and modeled at a fashion show at stake leadership meeting. "In November, a food fair of home-canned food was held at leadership meeting. Each sister Participating received a gold ribbon with the Relief Society seal and the words 'Food Fair' on it.'' I East Ogden Stake (Utah), Mount Ogden Ward Singing Mothers Perform Often Front row, second from left: Phyllis Shorten, President, Mount Ogden Ward Relief Society; fifth and sixth from left: Edna Despain, visiting teacher message leader; Eileen Kapp, Magazine representative. At right: Mary Hayes, Singing Mothers director. Back row, left to right: Janice Jones, organist; Helen DeBry, Secretary-Treasurer; seventh from left: Stensa Newman, First Counselor; tenth: Linda Helsten, chorister. Helen A. Harding, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Sing: ing Mothers in the Mount Ogden Ward have been busy and organized for over five years. They perform for sacrament meetings, ward conferences, and other special occasions as well as Relief Society activities. ''These sisters are very dedicated and are known for their exacting musicianship. They have set aside one hour before each Relief Society meeting for practice, and they enjoy their association with one another very much." 228 uld be Sent th € annual ro March 1970 North Davis Stake (Utah) Relief Society Visiting Teachers Convention Honors Sisters With Long Service November 6, 1969 Sisters who have devoted more than fifty years' service to visiting teaching, left to right, front row: Elizabeth Patterson; Ruby Davis; Emma Bodily; Cinda Smedley; Eva Warren. Flagstaff Stake (Arizona) Awards Winners In Literature Contest Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho) Presents "Thoroughly Modern Millie," October 19, 1969 cation Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President: Joyce H. Craig, Homemaking Counselor: Dee Ann C. Merrill, Secretary-Treasurer: Irmgard G. Dixon, Spiritual living class leader; Sister Chase reports: "At a Sunday evening Institute meeting at the University, the Relief Society presented a musical e Ni March 1970 Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society Holds Conference First row, left to right: Maria Luisa Garcia de Gutierrez; Trinidad Mendoza de Heredia; Angela Garcia Dominguez, First Counselor; Paula Jacome de Lopez, President of mission Relief Society; Catalina Hernandez de Ozorio, Second Counselor; Carmen Sanchez; Clara Boren, Supervisor. The other sisters in the picture are officers and representatives from six districts. Sister Boren reports: ''Six districts were represented at the first Relief Society conference held in the mission. It was a very busy day with instruction in leadership, homemaking, and record keeping being offered. In the evening, a carnival and bazaar attracted 300 people, many of them investigators. It was a very rewarding and worthwhile experience, and the sisters were enthused and excited by its success. They are anxiously awaiting another conference." Yuma Stake (Arizona), El Centro Ward Holds Successful Bazaar, October 11, 1969 El Centro Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Louise McElhaney, homemaking leader; Maridene Grant, Homemaking Counselor; Emily Sessions, President; Nellie D'Albini, Education Counselor. Elsa M. Blair, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Many useful and attractive articles were featured at the bazaar held in the El Centro Ward of our stake. The most popular item was fur pictures for children's rooms. Other popular items were stuffed musical toys, bread dough jewelry, and burlap flowers. "Under direction of Sister Maridene Grant, the bazaar was cleverly displayed in a storybook theme, featuring a boot, the house of the Old Woman in a Shoe, from which hung tiny dolls. Teddy bears and Raggedy Ann dolls were displayed at the home of the Three Bears which was surrounded by trees from which hung handmade laceedged handkerchiefs and other items."' North Tooele Stake (Utah), Eighth Ward Presents ''Cinderella'' Fashion Show September 27, 1969 Denise Williams portrays Cinderella in her work costume and in her wedding gown. Leona S. Pocock, President, North Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Eighth Ward of our stake presented a fall social in the form of a fashion show centered around a Cinderella theme. 'The story of Cinderella was revised and used as a script which added humor and interest and tied the fashion categories together. There were fifty-five home-sewed fashions made by the sisters, ranging from casual wear to formal attire. The evening was climaxed by the modeling of nine lovely wedding gowns and Cinderella marrying her prince. 'Elizabeth Clyburn is Relief Society president of the Eighth Ward." 

232 March 1970

 Brigham Young University Seventh Stake Singing Sisters Enjoy "Spiritual Sabbath Experience,"' May 18, 1969 Amy Y. Valentine, former president, Brigham Young University Seventh Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Sisters of our stake performed at a fireside at which Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve was the speaker. Invitations were sent to all members of the stake. ''The Singing Sisters are directed by Frances James and accompanied by Elaine Yamashita. An original number by Marie Peterson was sung by a vocal quartet with violin obligato. We were very proud of these young sisters. Elida J. Austin is the new president of the BYU Seventh Stake Relief Society. $$$ __ Southern States Mission Holds Relief Society Convention, September 27, 1969 Left to right: Marian S. Nibley, Supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Bernice Jung, President, Georgia District; Dorothy Jacobs, mission SecretaryTreasurer; Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District; Zaida M. Wallace, mission President; Gladys Bunnell, Education Counselor; Francis West, President, South Carolina District: Pernie Thomas, mission Homemaking Counselor. Sister Nibley reports: 'The theme of our Relief Society convention was 'Love Unfeigned.' A play portraying the purpose of visiting teaching was presented, and inspirational comments were given by Mission President Charles W. Nibley. ''Departmental sessions were conducted under direction of mission board members. A social hour followed where light refreshments were served and a quilt display was viewed. A compiled booklet of quilt patterns was given to the sisters. "A similar convention was held in the western half of the mission earlier in the month, and although considerable travel was necessary, the mission board felt well repaid for the 850 miles traveled to hold the convention."' eee Central States Mission Relief Society Holds Convention, September 6, 1969 Front row, third and fourth from right: Janice J. Anderson, Supervisor, Central States Mission Relief Society; Eula F. Bohon, President. Sister Anderson reports: 'Inspirational and instructional material was given to the sisters attending our mission-wide Relief Society Conference. The theme for the event was 'The Keys to a Successful Relief Society.' Homemaking displays and demonStrations followed the general session. 'Thirty branches were represented by 149 sisters. Music was provided by the Singing Mothers from the Virginia North District and the Lamanite sisters from the Magnolia Branch. It was a delightful afternoon of sharing ideas."