[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 223 | Fiction | Jerusha Spends the Night-Chapter 3 | Hazel K. Todd]
"Jerusha," he said, his eyes misty, his fine honest face touched with Jerusha Spends the Night emotion, "I'm sure your car broke down on purpose before our gate. We needed you so much." "Well, that's a right pleasant thought, Paul Wilson," she said. "Now, how about some cloth for your daughters? I might just as well make Amy some dresses, too. You realize, of course, she goes to kindergarten this year?" "Tl tell you," he said, a sudden burst of buoyancy about him she had not noticed before. "Why don't the three of you come with me and get whatever you need?" Jerusha looked at the pan of flour. "Splendid idea! I'll just save this breadmaking for tomorrow." It was a wonderful afternoon. Little Amy clung to her hand like a leech. Since Amy had finally accepted her, Jerusha found the little girl by her side constantly. All the hidden hunger for the mother she had been denied, seemed to bloom out in acceptance of her newly found friend. And Jerusha, an emptiness in her own life she had never known existed for this relationship, welcomed the child with open arms. They made cookies together, sewed clothes for her doll, and took walks down the lane or through the fields. At night Jerusha held the little girl on her lap and told her fantastic fairy stories with charming interpretation so that she giggled with delight. 'Tell me about the Clippety, Clackety Clop Man," Amy would say. And Jerusha would stroke her golden head and begin. And it never came out just the same way twice. She would say, "Once upon a 225 Sometimes she caught him staring at her sullenly, even almost belligerently when he didn't know she saw. "He thinks ['m some old coot," she said to herself, "come to push the family around." She paused and thought it over. "Maybe I am," she said half aloud, "but I'll not give up yet!" Then, one day while she was working with the roses, she looked up to see Joe standing against the willow tree watching her. The straggly overgrown rose bed had become a thing of beauty now. All the remainder of June it had put on its bloom in appreciation of the care given it. And even now in the hot July sun, there were still a few showy blossoms. When she looked up and met his gaze, he turned and left, walking toward the barn. She worked on quietly for awhile, thinking. Then she clipped off a beautiful Peace rose and carried it with her toward the barn, concocting some errand that might take her there. She came around the corner of the building and stopped short. Joe was leaning against the barn smoking a cigarette. He jerked it from his mouth and turned on her angrily. "Snoopin"!"' he cried, his dark eyes flashing. ""Now I guess you ll go tattlin'!"' Jerusha gathered her wits quickly. She had been to church enough to know smoking was not looked upon with good will, and she was sure it would be very disconcerting to his father. "Oh," she said calmly, ignoring the discourteous accusation and also the cigarette, "I have nothing to tell. That would be your Jerusha Spends the Night business. I was just coming for a fresh egg to put in the cake." She paused and looked at the rose in her hand, trying desperately to ease the strained atmosphere. "Have you noticed how lovely the roses are?' she asked casually. His belligerence seemed a little confused. "I guess you think you can wrap me around your finger like the rest of them!" he said irritably. "No," she conceded, "I don't believe I could wrap you around my finger at all. You have too much pride for that." She hesitated. "I—I just had an idea you might want to use some of that spunky pride to paint the fence and house with." He turned on her then, and she saw the fire she had imagined the first day. "There you go trying to bribe me! What'd you come here for anyway? We were doing all right. Why don't you leave?" Jerusha thought that one over a minute. "Well," she said thoughtfully, "if I did, I would be leaving unfinished something I started." There was just the hint of a smile. "You know, Joe, you could have fun in this new adventure, if you'd just let yourself. And it won't last forever. Things never do, because there are new ones that come along to take their places." Angrily he turned to leave. "Don't try to preach to me!" And he strode away arrogantly around the barn. Jerusha heaved a sigh. "Well," she said aloud to the barn, "I guess there'll be no painting today.".