The Round Table
======================================================================

ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. In the Millennial Star, May 29, appears a very complimentary review of the Relief Society annual report for 1918. The work of the year is recounted with appreciative comments on its efficiency and scope. Emphasis is placed on the vast amount of war work done by Relief Society women, and attention is called to the fact that these women are usually mothers of large households, who have managed to push in the extra tasks along with their usual household routine work. Tongan Mission. Mrs. Salome Woolfgram, president of the Haalanfuli Relief Society, of the Vavau Island of the Tongan mission, recently sent to the Relief Society headquarters a beautiful crocheted center piece as a gift to the Hawaiian temple. This piece was brought to the Relief Society headquarters by Mrs. Winward, of Preston, Idaho, who has just returned from the Tongan mission and was immediately forwarded to President E. Wesley Smith, of the Hawaiian mission. Eastern States Mission. Miss Marie Haselman, President of the Relief Societies in the Eastern States mission, reports the work in the Eastern States as growing in interest and in numbers. On the Relief Society Annual Day, March 17, exercises were held in all the branches with a great deal of zeal and appreciation of the many opportunities afforded members through the Relief Society organization. At this time the Albany, New York, association, was favored with the presence of some of the state legislators, who expressed themselves as very much interested in what they had seen and heard. The New Bedford, Massachusetts, Society decorated their room with the national colors and their program was largely a discussion of the activity of the Relief Society in war work. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 531 The Lynn, Massachusetts, Society held a morning service in historic old Salem, and an afternoon meeting in Lynn, when many friends were in attendance. In the evening the class leader, Miss Ida Suttie, entertained the members of the association with a program of literature and music. Preston, Ontario, Canada, joined with a neighboring branch for a commemorative service. After talks on the history and organization of the Relief Society and its special activities the evening was spent socially in games and music. At Huntington, West Virginia, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, spiritual feasts were enjoyed. The Brooklyn Society gave the origin, history, and growth of the Relief Society to a large attendance. President Monson was in attendance and spoke of its usefulness and importance to mankind. In the New York branch, in addition to a historical sketch of the organization, talks were given on each of the lines of guide work taken up by the Relief Society. President Monson was also in attendance here and gave an inspiring address. The Philadelphia branch, although only ten in number, during the past year, has put forth untiring effort in the service of our country as well as in the uplift and betterment of the Church community. The members live many miles apart so that the attendance at any gathering means one or two hours travel by trolley, train or ferry. Distance is no barrier, however, to these earnest women, and obstacles seem only an incentive to greater efifort. Red Cross activity has been one of the features of the year's work, each member giving the maximum of time and energy to this work. During the month of November a supper and bazaar for the benefit of the "Emergency Aid Society" was given, the proceeds of which were $16. In connection with and following the celebration of the Relief Society birthday, when appropriate services were held, the Relief Society annual supper and bazaar were given. The services were well attended by Saints and friends. The following notes taken from a letter of one of the missionary girls, Miss Lorena C. Fletcher, will give an idea of some of the activites of the New York branch: 'The lessons outlined in the Home Economics Department, of the Relief Society, have been greatly enjoyed by the New York branch. In connection with the Practical Home Study, we have taken advantage of the wonderful opportunities that the great metropolis of New York afifords and have devoted one meeting each month to visiting places of interest. "As most of us are interested in cooking, we desired to know how this daily necessity was accomplished on a large scale and therefore decided to visit the Biltmore hotel. This hotel was selected because the chef in charge had recently achieved notoriety 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in cooking for President Wilson, on his recent trip to Europe. Previous arrangements were made so that when we arrived, great courtesy was shown us and the guide spent an hour and a half taking us through. There are five dining rooms — the main dining room, the tea room, the palm gardens, the grill, the breakfast room, and the Italian roof gardens. We visited the reading room, the ball room, bed rooms, nursery, library, and reception halls. The kitchen was of special interest because of the specialization of labor, one man being responsible for just one thing. For example, one prepares roasts, another salad, another sauces, and another the rolls. One man sits all day grinding glassware which has been chipped while in service, and still another peels vegetables. Our visit here proved to us what can be accomplished by system and order. "The famous Tififany Jewelry store was the object of our next trip. It would be impossible to describe the beautiful display of silver, gold, china, and glass ware, bronze, models, vases, etc., in addition to the wonderful jewelry. Here we saw the most beautiful canary diamond in the world, valued at $100,000. "Previous to a visit to the metropolitan Museum of art, a talk on home decoration and the different schools of art and their masters was given in a meeting. This gave us a greater appreciation of art, and we hope to spend many more hours in this gallery. "The privilege was afforded us of visiting a large piano factory. It was interesting and instructive to see how these wonderful instruments are made. "In connection with our lessons on clothing, we are planning to visit the wollen mills, shoe factory, and clothing establishmet, and other places of like interest. "In connection with the Genealogical Department we visited the Genealogical department of the New York public library. It is perhaps one of the largest in the world, and we think it a wonderful opportunity to use this great collection of genealogical records. We are able to work not only on our own family records but also can render a real service to our people at home. New ancestral lines have been discovered, one member finding a whole volume on her family tree." Reorganization. Reorganizations have taken place in Brooklyn, New York; New York City; Baltimore, Maryland; and Capital Heights, Maryland; with the appointment of the following officers: Brooklyn, reorganized May 1, 1919, President, Mrs. Beatrice B. Pingree; First Counselor, Mrs. Mary Byard; Second Counselor, Mrs. Isabelle Wingrave; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Louie W. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 533 Sloan. Baltimore, reorganized May 1; President, Mrs. Jennie Koscoe; First Counselor, Mrs. Maggie Scott; Second Counselor, Mrs. Mrs. Mary W. Morgan; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Erma V. Bush. Capital Heights, organized June 10, 1919; President, Maude Abbott; First Counselor, Mrs. May Babcock; Second Counselor, Mrs. Minnie Croter; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth Drongburg. A new Relief Society was organized, May 5, 1919, in Jamestown, N. Y., the new President being Mrs. Flora Thomas; First Counselor, Mrs. Lillian Drummond; Second Counselor, Mrs. Cora Landis; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Florence Dodge. Mrs. Leona P. Monson was tendered a delightful surprise party and reception before her departure from the Eastern States mission where, with her husband. President Walter P. Monson, she has worked as a missionary. The New York and Brooklyn Relief Societies joined in giving this farewell entertainment to Mrs. Monson. Miss Marie Haselman acted as chairman and a very interesting literary and musical program was given, followed by a talk two Monson. It with by President presented was Mrs. Monson's birthday, and the societies her a beautiful pin as a token of their love and appreciation. Western States Mission. On June 21 the Relief Society of the Western States mission held a day conference in connection with the dedication of the new Denver L. D. S. Church. At 10 o'clock in the morning, an officers' meeting was held with representatives from many of the branches of the mission. Reports were made as follows: Denver, by Nellie B. Foote; Pueblo, Ehzabeth H. Johnson; Alamosa, Mary Hinkle. In Pueblo there is an enrollment of seventeen members, with an average attendance of fifteen, a very unusual showing. In the afternoon a public Relief Society meeting was held. President Heber J. Grant was in attendance and gave timely instructions and advice. He also recounted his experiences attending Relief Society meetings in childhood with his mother, who for many years was president of the Thirteenth ward Relief Society. Remarks were made by Mrs. Herrick, her mother, Mrs. Josephine R. West and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. In the evening a banquet was given by the missionaries and Saints in honor of President and Mrs. John L. Herrick. Following this an interesting program was given and President and Mrs. Herrick were presented with a beautiful chest of silver. The dedicatory services took place on Sunday. The church, which is beautiful in design and furnishings, was decorated with 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. palms an dhiige baskets of pink and white flowers. The color of pink predominated and the contrast between this and the soft gray of the walls and furnishings of the church was very beautiful and effective. California Mission. There has been very effective work done in California along genealogical lines. The work began October 31, 1917, when Mrs. Lousia W. Jones was, set apart by the late President Joseph F. Smith as a special genealogical missionary in the California mission. Since that time every branch of the mission has been visited. There have been ninety-seven special meetings held for genealogical instruction with an average attendance of thirty-three. These meetings were held under the auspices of the Relief Society and presided over by its officers. Nearly six hundred books have been placed in the homes of the people, and one hundred and seventeen dollars sent to the Genealogical Society of Utah. Genealogical representatives have been appointed in every branch but one. The people have received the work gladly and have had many seasons of rejoicing together. Many testimonies have been given of divine help in gathering records and doing temple work. Northern States Mission. Through the courtesy of Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, of the Northern States mission we have been privileged to read some letters from lady missionaries in that mission. From Miss Pearl Jones and Ethel Olson we learn of the work in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. These young women have been giving a great deal of attention to the methods of conducting meetings, and have been endeavoring to carry on all regular meetings, committee work, etc., according to parlimentary usage. They have emphasized lessons on Church etiquette and social usage. Practical demonstrations have been given with different members of the Society presiding, and all the members of the group have had an opportunity to assume the role of presiding officer. Oneida Stake. At the Oneida stake conference held July 13, there were fifteen officers present, one absent. Twenty of the twenty-one wards were represented. Although the conference was held separately from the stake conference, the stake presidency and all of the bishops in the stake were in attendance. North Weber Stake. The North Weber stake conference was held May 11, 1919. Number of stake officers present, nine; number absent, one, (due THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE- 535 to sickness.) Every ward in the stake was represented. Special, written invitations had been sent to the bishops, and they were all in attendance with the exception of one, and he was represented by a first couselor. The meetings were conducted with dispatch. not a moment beins;- wasted. Malad Stake. The Washakie Indian ward Relief Society purchased a five hundred dollar bond in the last Liberty Loan. Tooele Stake. Among the stakes who sent iti dues early this year was Tooele Stake with 100% dues. Alberta Stake. Mrs. Elizabeth L Hammer, of Cardston, Canada, first counselor to President Lydia J. Brown, passed away on July 9, 1919, at the age of 61 years. Mrs. Hammer was the wife of Josiah A. Hammer, and with him she left Utah 32 years ago with the pioneers who settled Cardston. Mrs. Hammer was greatly beloved for her many admirable qualities. She was broad-minded, sympathetic, earnest and a devoted and faithful Latter-day Saint. She was Cardston's first mid-wife, having been called to this mission by President Charles O. Card, upon her first arrival in Canada. This work she carried on faithfully for a number of years, assisting at the birth of four hundred children. Benson Stake. During the month of May the Benson stake officers arranged and held fourteen ward conferences, in the fourteen wards of the stake. The object was to review and discuss in detail in each ward the work done by this particular ward during the last year; and also to consider the work of the future, including the teacher's work and all other Relief Society activities. A suggestive program was sent to each ward in advance by the stake board. At each conference the bishopric and several stake workers were present. It was found that the Lewiston First ward and Richmond Second ward have had 100% teachers' visits for the last two years. The Richmond Second ward has twenty-two teachers' districts and forty-two teachers. In 1915, this stake adopted the method of giving the teachers a particular message each month to carry into the homes of the people, and the results of this plan are gratifying to see. On May 22, the Lewiston First ward arranged an excursion to the Logan temple. Seventy-five were in attendance. The members accompanied by their husbands, and the latter furnished automobiles. The wards have all adopted slogans 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. for the year. Among" those adopted were the following: "Temple marriages, and a Sacred Sabbath," "Let us create more interest in Rehef Society Work," "Better attendance of young mothers," "We stand for success through perseverance," "Better attendance at sacrament meetings," "Greater interest in temple work," "Make the world brighter," and "Better attendance and punctuality." Stake Reorganizations. Since January 1, 1919, stakes have been reorganized as follows: Blackfoot Stake, May 18, 1919, Mrs. Juliette Blackburn resigned;the following new officers were sustained: President, Mrs. Signe A. Davis, Blackfoot, Idaho; First Counselor, Mrs. Alice Vancey; Second Counselor, Mrs. Laura Christensen; Secretary, Mrs. Lula Dance; Treasurer, Sarah A. Bitton; Chorister, Mary A. Packham; Class Director, Sarah A. Carruth. San Juan Stake. May 18, 1919, Mrs. Mary N. Jones resigned. The following new officers were sustained: President, Mrs. Lucinda A. Redd, Monticello, Utah; First Counselor, Mrs. Lillian Wood; Second Counselor, Mary E. Lyman; Secretary, Elizabeth Hall; Assistant Secretary, Vivian McConkie; Chorister, Mrs. S. Perkins. Young Stake. May 24, Mrs. Florence Dean resigned. The following new officers were sustained: President, Mrs. Johanna H. Smith, Mancos, Colo. ; First Counselor, Mrs. Mary E. Lamb; Second Counselor, Mrs. Lavina N. Hammond; Secretary, Mrs. Elvira Halls; Treasurer, Mrs. Harriet Ellis. ' Union Stake. June 22, Mrs. Helen M. Geddes resigned. The following new officers were sustained: President, Eveline Rosenbaum, La Grande, Ore. ; First Counselor, Mary H. Stoddard; Second Counselor not appointed; Secretary, Mrs. Martha Scofield; Treasurer, Mrs. Florence M. Stoddard. Cassia Stake. This stake was divided on Saturday, July 26, into three divisions tobe known as the Cassia, Burley, and Twin Falls Stakes. The Cassia Stake will include the following wards: Oakley First, Oakley Second, Oakley Third, Oakley Fourth, Basin, Marion, Hazel, Churchill branch, Boulder branch, Butte branch and Golden Valley (unorganized), with headquarters at Oakley. Mrs. Jubeltine I. Jack, who has.served so efficiently as president of the Relief Society of Cassia Stake, was retained as president, with the same group of officers. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE- 537 Burley stake will include: Burley First, Burley Second, Pella, Unity, View, Springdale, Declo, Jackson Branch, and Starrs Ferry branch; with headquarters at Burley. The following Stake Relief Society officers were appointed: President, Mrs. Lucina Smith, Burley, Idaho; First Counselor, Mrs. Lena N. Taylor; Second Counselor, Mrs. Luella Wright; Secretary, Mrs. Marian Gudmundsen. Twin Falls stake will include: Buhl, Twin Falls, Kimberley, Murtaugh, Artesian, Branch, Hansen (unorganized), Fyler (unorganized), Amsterdam (unorganized), Sho.shone-Basin (unorganized), Hollister (unorganized), Rogerson (unorganized), and all territory west to Jarbridge; with headquarters at Twin Falls. The following Stake Relief Society officers were appointed: President, Mrs. Anna Roberts, Twin Falls, Idaho; First Counselor, Mrs. Mary O. Swenson; Second Counselor, Mrs. Kate Kirkham; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Katherine Arrington. Boise stake was divided on August 2, 1919, into two stakes; the western half to be known as the Boise stake, and the eastern half to be known as Blaine stake. The Boise stake will include eight counties with the following wards and branches: Wards: Boise, Nampa, Bennett, Weiser and Bramwell: Branches; Kuna, Nyssa, Ontario, and Melba. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, of Boise, Idaho, wife of President Heber Q. Hale of the Boise stake, was appointed president of the Boise stake Relief Society with the following assistants: First Counselor, Mrs. Ruby Rawlins; Second Counselor, not appointed; Secretary, Mrs. Annie M. Ellsworth. The Blaine stake will include the following wards and branches: wards: Carey, Rupert, Heyburn, Paul, Acequia, Jerome, Manaid; branches: Gaunet, Austin and Emerson. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, the former president of Boise stake Relief Society was sustained as president of the new Blaine stake Society, with the following group of stake officers: First Counselor, Pearl Adamson; Second (I^ounselor, Mrs. Luella Thomas; Secretary, Mrs. Jennie W. Thomas; Assistant Secretary, Mrs. Lola D. Harris; Treasurer, Mrs. Rebecca Adamson. The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing grateful thanks and appreciation to Mrs. Juliett Blackburn, of Blackfoot, to Mrs. Mary N. Jones of San Juan, and to Mrs. Helen M. Geddes of Union, for the splendid service they have rendered as stake presidents. With their faithful assistants they have labored early and late to help carry forward the great Relief Society work; and although they feel that they must be relieved of these responsible positions, it is felt sure they will continue to give service in other capacities. The General Board welcomes heartily the new groups of stake workers recently appointed, and hopes to be of material service to them in their plans for their new work.