Reminiscences of Margaret Judd Clawson
======================================================================

Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson. (Continued.) The household trouble always centered around Sid and Fred when they were little boys, and to a certain extent it is still the same. When Sidney was called on a mission, Fred's name was mentioned, but he was not called then. He said: "If I am to go at some future time, I may as well go now." To my great joy they both went together. As a boy at home, Sid was the life of the house — always whistling, singing, dancing or teasing some one, particularly the matter-of-fact Fred, or playing practical jokes, but let any of the boys impose upon his younger brother and he resented it instantly. That was his especial privilege. When they were little boys they were inseparable; either playing, quarreling, sometimes fighting, but I could never keep them apart. I think Sidney was fourteen and Fred twelve when reverses came to their father for a time. They each got a position, Sidney in the Co-op as cash boy at twenty dollars a month, Fred in 506 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Walt Conrad's grocery store, delivery boy at twelve dollars a month. He delivered his goods in a hand cart drawn by himself. Sid affectionately called him the old "dray horse," and whenever he and his inseparable companion Beecher (his dog) came home to dinner or supper, the first question was "Where is the old dray horse?" and if Fred did not get home before Sid left, it deprived him of half his fun. I remember one evening leaving the two boys in the dining room. In a short time Fred came rushing into my room as white as a ghost with an awfully agonized expression. I was frightened and said: "Oh, Freddie, what has happened to you?" He said: "It isn't me, it's Sid; Oh, send for a doctor, quick." Sid was right behind him, holding up his bleeding finger, and not half so frightened as was Fred. It seemed they had been playing as usual. Sid got a stick and told Fred to take the carving knife and see if he could cut it in two with one blow. He was very successful and cut the stick in two, as well as Sid's finger to the bone. Fred was very much relieved after the doctor had sewn and wrapped his finger up and pronounced it alright. The accldert seemed to hurt Fred more than it did Sid. He had a very sympathetic nature. Once while Fred was working at the grocery store, there was a lot of men congregated there, talking about the ever interesting mines and mining stocks. They noticed his attention to their conversation, so one of them said to him (in a joke), "Fred, won't you invest your salary in some shares of good mining stock?" Fred 'looked at him very seriously, and said, "No sir, my mother won't let me dabble in stocks." They simply roared 'at his earnest refusal. He is still earnest and zealous in all his undertakings, but to this day he doesn't believe in.dabbling in stocks. At the end of each pay day, the boys brought me every cent of their salary, and felt the great responsibility of supporting the family. They gave it to me freely and willingly. My daughter Teresa (Birdie) was naturally a very industrious, economical girl. Her father gave her (as he did others) a small weekly allowance for sweeping and cleaning the rooms. At sixteen she had her first trip to New York and when she returned Iwas surprised and pleased when she presented me with a set of onyx jewelry (ear-rings and pin) bought with the money she had earned and saved herself. I ha.d remarked that I admired the jewelry of a lady I knew. From that time she resolved that I should have a set like my friend's. She was delighted to almost duplicate it. I have always prized it and appreciated her loving thoughtfulness. She was ever kind and thoughtful of me, also to all of her brothers and sisters, always ready to assist them in every way. She had good judgment and excellent taste. REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON. 507 She could select her brothers' clothes better than they could. As to her sisters, they depended entirely upon her buying their dresses and the styles they were to be made. Each Christmas all my children joined together to get me a present. It was always she whom they all depended to get me a present. It was always she to give perfect satisfaction. It was useful, good, valuable and often ornamental. How we miss her in every way! She had a happy, cheerful disposition, never low-spirited nor blue. In after life, when trouble came, she bore it heroically. As a small child, Phebe possessed, in a high degree, the qualities of amiability and patience. Ever the same, even temperament from childhood to womanhood; I never heard of her having an enemy. We once owned a large Newfoundland dog and from the time she could play out of doors, he was her constant companion and playfellow. She thought and looked upon him as her brother, and when I used to call her to come in, I have often heard her.say: "Come Ring, mother wants us." She thought he understood and should mind me as she did. I once took her to a matinee, when she was five or six years old; she was delighted with the music and kept time with her hands and feet. A lady sitting near said: "That child would make a musician." When she became old enough to take lessons I found she learned very easily. She took her first lesson on the day after I left home for a three months' trip, and when I returned I was very much surprised and pleased to hear her play a piece called "General Grant's Grand March," which she had learned in so short a time, and which she played so well, too. She, even today, prefers music to any other recreation. The light-hearted, pleasure-loving, ever excitable Mamie was a child to whom a mouse was a mortal terror, and dancing a delight. From the time she learned, she could dance twelve hours out of twenty-four without tiring. She was "all eyes open" on the street; she never returned from doing an errand without having seen some blood-curdling sight, either a runaway or a dog fight, or something equally exciting. She grew to womanhood with the same impulsive nature, perhaps a little modified. When a young girl she was devoted to her sister Phebe and her children. In fact, she weaned the whole six. It was often hard to tell which was the mother. Mamie scarcely ever went out riding with her young man without taking one of the children with her. She now exhibits quite a talent for altering, changing and improving old houses. Tessie, the baby, is still the baby, and the best natured small one I ever had; as she grew older, she developed a little bit of will and a great deal of tact. The other children often accused me of being more indulgent to her than I used to be to them. I did 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. not intend it, but as parents grow older, they get more lenient, so it is said. One evening when,she was about twelve years old, she had made up her mind to go to the theatre. Her father being manager and very indulgent, allowed his children to go quite frequently, in fact, much oftener than I approved. On that particular occasion, I decided she must not go. Fred, who had just returned from college, agreed with me. He said theatre-going was injurious to her studies. She not only lost her sleep, but her mind was taken off her books. That was enough; she said he was not her boss, that she would go anyway, so I told Fred to put her in a room and I would lock the door until after theatre time. Anyhow, he had a terrible struggle with her, but succeeded at last. It was very stormy in there at first; after awhile it got very quiet. I began to feel a little anxious about the child, for sometimes getting wrought up like that would affect her a day or so. Well, we opened the door, when lo, and behold, the bird had flown! I had no idea she could get out of the window. We hunted and called for her everywhere we thought she could possibly be. I knew she had not gone to the theatre, it seemed she had hidden in some shrubbery until we gave up the hunt; she then took herself and her sorrow into the bosom of the family who rented a part of the house. They were very indignant at the treatment she had received from her inhuman mother and brother. We sometimes have to be cruel to be kind. Up to the present time one of her strong characteristics is perseverance. Some time after that, when she was in her teens, and still going to school, I thought she did not get along at school as well as she ought. There were interesting boys, and a great many places of amusement that could not be neglected, so I decided to send her away from home to school. I consulted her father about it, but he objected to it. (I knew he would.) He never approved of children going away from home, but by continual persuasion he at last gave his reluctant consent. So one fine morning, quite elated, I took her on the train for Logan. Of course, she did not want to go, but had to bow to the inevitable. Well, I got her settled with her brother who was living there at that time, and made arrangements for her to start to school the next day. When I parted with her that evening to come home, she clung around my neck and cried and sobbed as if her heart would break. Well, after I got on the train I did not feel nearly so happy as I did going up there, and when I got home with my baby not there to greet me, only her picture on the mantle looking so sorrowful, oh, how wretched and lonely I was! One would think I had no other children. Experience has taught me that every child has his or her place, in your home and in your heart. The next morning her father said: "Well, did you get Tessie REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAW SON. 509 settled to your satisfaction?" That was the straw that broke the camel's back. I quite broke down and told him I felt that I could not stand it to have her away any longer. He was delighted and said he would telegraph her that day. He did, and she was back from "boarding school" the next day. I need not say what a joyful meeting it was after so long a separation. Oh, foolish mother, not to sacrifice her own feelings for the benefit of her children. However, none of them seem to hold it against me for my severity to them in their youthful days. I was strict with them, especially do I realize it now, since I see what good control children have over their parents, now-a-days. How can I ever be thankful enough to the Lord and to my own dear parents who by their exertions brought their family to this lovely valley of the mountains. As the years roll by, I appreciate more and more the privilege and benefits of living in this blessed land. I trust my children will always remember with gratitude and reverence their grandparents, who through great trials and hardships, made it possible for them to be now living in this God given country, all having good, comfortable homes in the beautiful city of Salt Lake. How few mothers are as greatly blest as I am, now surrounded by a family of devoted children, and a good husband. In 1852 I was sealed to Hiram B. Clawson by President Brigham Young, and I have no cause to regret ever having taken that step, for he has been a kind, considerate husband, and a most indulgent father to all of his children. It is impossible for me to express my appreciation for all the comforts I am surrounded with, and now that I have written this long, disconnected, rambling remembrance of the past, I hardly know what to do with it, for who can be interested in the little things of the common, every day life of another. However, it has been a pastime and pleasure to me recalling the little incidents and occurrences ofthe long ago, and this is my only excuse for these lengthy reminiscences. This closes the charming and most interesting personal recital of Mrs. Margaret Judd Clawson. Her later years were spent in Temple work, undertaken at the suggestion,of her son, Apostle Rudger Clawson. She died, Feb. 10, 1912, aged 80 years, surrounded by her loved and solicitous family. Thus closed an eventful and beautiful life.