His Wife's Mother-in-Law Ruth Moench Bell
======================================================================

His Wife's Mother-in-Law By Ruth Moench Bell. "Who's there?" Ardelle Mayfair called downstairs to some one who had taken the liberty of opening her kitchen door and walking about. There was no doubt in Ardelle's mind as to whom the intruder might be; but she called to make it clear that she regarded the act as an intrusion. "Who's there?" Ardelle repeated impatiently. There was a restrained edge to her tone which suggested that the said tone might cut frightfully if she chose to bear down a little on it. It must have cut deeply enough for the aged intruder responded gently: "It's only me." Tom's mother never would learn to speak correctly. "I've unscrewed your electric iron and taken the meat out of it's wrapper and put it on a platter." "The electricity was turned off." Ardelle murmured. "Now you are sure it is," Tom's mother assured her. "Go ahead and finish your nap." Almost too vexed to sleep, Ardelle resumed her pillow. If only Mrs. Adair were not such a meddlesome person. What business was it of hers if Ardelle chose to leave the meat in its paper. It was so annoying to have some one eternally conveying the impression that you are a negligent house-keeper. And then Tom was acting so unloverlike of late. Not to mention disrespectful and indiflferent and critical. Ardelle was half a mind to cry. But before the tears were well under way she sat up indignantly! Tom's mother was tramoing about again! Why couldn't she let a person alone long enough to have a nap in her own house. "Are you resting, Ardelle?" A soft voice, sure of its welcome, called. "Oh, is that you, mother?" Ardelle rejoined. "I'll be down in half a minute. I'm so glad you came." Mrs. Rose looked anything but glad she had come. As she waited for her daughter, she glanced nervously out of the window as if she expected someone she feared to see. "Tom's mother has just been here," Ardelle exclaimed languidly, as she came down the stairs. "And so I missed my afternoon nap." "That is too bad," Mrs. Rose sympathized absently, as she noted the trace of tears about her daughter's eyes. She had been aware of Ardelle's domestic infelicity for some time. There was a peremptory summons from above. HIS WIFE'S MOTHER-IN-LAW. 511 "Oh, there's Tommy, boy," Ardelle laughed. "I'll run up and get him." Mrs. Rose stole another glance up the street. “If only I can do something before they get here," she breathed almost prayerfully. "Isn't he lovely?" Ardelle returned kissmg, and cuddhng a big, crowing baby. "And he is growing so fast." "Don't, don't say that," Tommy's grandmother admonished. "Cling to him, love him, enjoy him! But don't urge him to grow away from you. And just remember always that this is your all, this and now. Get an interest in something you can plunge yourself into, so you won't miss him so whenastonishe he marries." "But mother," Ardelle exclaimed d at this most unusual outbreak of her mother's. "Isn't it a joy to be a grandmother? Don't you enjoy Tommy and Charlies children and Will's." "Oh, yes, but go away or send him before you are only his wife's mother-in-law!" "Why, mother, you are Tom's mother-in-law.” "It is very different to be your daughter's husband's mother in-law You are continually voicing my praises to him. And then he is just a big, blundering male. Hehowcan't see my faults as a woman could. And he doesn't know to make you think less of me by his, "your mother! now she is so different from mme. Ardelle flushed. Did her mother know that she did precisely that at three meals a day and even at the fireside and pillow sessions? "I'd, oh, I'd hate any woman who poisoned Tommys mind against me." „ "No you would only be wounded, deep, deep down.” Hate it. No is such an ugly word, dear. No heart is sweet that holds face is beautiful that harbors it." Mrs Rose seemed to remember that she had something went on purposefully: "I can remember so well the first time hairs' were coming and I had passed my first youth. Charlie slipped his stout arms about me and murmured: ‘Mamma, you are just like an angel and a fairy queen.' And then there came a time when he didn't put his arm about me when he came to see me but sat and read a newspaper or a book till he had paid duty call.” "That was Barbara's work," Ardelle cut in resentfully. "Barbara's influence, no doubt, but my fault,” the mother corrected gently. “Oh, but mother, you are an ideal mother-in-law. They all sav so. If Tom's mother — "  "Not ideal, dear, only striving, after much blundering. of each daughter-inlaw? you know that I was actually jealous 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. I dreaded the knowledge that one of my boys loved another. I almost hoped that she would refuse him. I really — but I cannot tell you this." "Please mother," it was so sweet to find mother in the role of culprit. "I actually wanted those boys to love me best and you their only sister. I was jealous every time one of them bought anything for his wife. Each had said that he wanted a wife just like sis. And secretly I was always making unfavorable comparisons between the wife and my daughter." The tones were so nearly Ardelle's own when she would say, "now my mother," that Ardelle felt strangely uncomfortable. "With my heart full of disparaging comparisons no wonder that I dropped slighting remarks now and then and no wonder each daughter-in-law withdrew into her shell and drew my son in with her. No wonder I was left outside of their lives. Who would invite a carping critic into his family circle." "That is precisely why I told Tom that if his mother came to live with us I'd leave," Ardelle justified herself. "She is forever setting me a good example and insinuating ways in which I might improve. If she ever comes into the house she puts me in an ugly mood for the rest of the day." "And no one is very lovable when in an ugly mood," the mother finished. "That is why my new daughters couldn't love me and perhaps the reason Tom and Tom's mother — " Ardelle winced. "Do you mean that Tom no longer loves me because I cannot love his unlovely mother?" "I don't know, dear," the mother returned glancing again at the clock. "Tom's mother has met with an accident." "But she was here not more than an hour ago." "I know. She slipped on her cellar steps and broke her leg just after she left here." "It isn't serious?" "Only in one way. They can find no one to wait on her." "Well, they can't bring her here. I have the fruit to put up and Tommy to tend." "Then I have blundered dreadfully, dear. I told them I knew you would be glad to have her with you." "But, mother!" "I told them to bring her here as soon as they could. They are coming now. Shall I answer the door and show them to your guest room Ardelle?" Ardelle bit her lip with vexation as her mother ushered in her husband's mother and her attendants. "Only the nurse should be in the room with her for a while," the doctor explained. HIS WIFE'S MOTHER-IN-LAW. 513 The attendants filed out and Mrs. Rose returned to her daughter. "She has so many annoying ways," Ardelle began. "Only one needs to change, dear," the mother answered. "I shall never forget the day the icicles in my heart melted and Barbara entered and was warmed and happy there. She was sitting on the footstool with her head in my lap when Charlie walked in and kissed and squeezed us both together. It was the first time there had been any warmth for me in his embrace since my heart closed against Barbara and shut him out also. For Barbara and he were one, you know." "But in our case Tom and his mother are one and I am shut out." "The conclusion is the same though — open your heart to his mother and Tom will come in also. If not — well, Tom will arrive on the six o'clock car. He already knows of his mother's accident. And if he finds her here and you still bitter, Tom will take that aged mother with her pain and her faults, as you see them, and march out of the house with her. Then the breach that may lead to a break will occur." "But I can't love her," Ardelle cried out fiercely. "I know. I was the same, dear, against your grandmother. It was not till she died and I was glad — " "Mother!" "Just as well to be honest, dear. I was glad for a little while. It was a relief to know that no one would inspect my garbage pail and look as if I were wasting millions because of each tiny scrap. It was a relief to know that I might leave the baby's playthings on the floor till noon if I chose and no one would pick them up and suggest that I was a negligent house-wife! I thought: now I shall have peace! Peace? As if peace could enter where regrets hold sway. Later, if she would only have come back I could have kissed those work-worn fingers grubbing in the yard for a button I had carelessly swept out and said, 'yes, mother, I must try to be more careful.' Peace! I could have known peace then if I could but have loved and served and borne with her!" "Why did you change, mother? I remember you never shed a tear till the funeral." "She was a pioneer, bent and broken, you know. We shall never realize, I suppose, how big and precious a tiny piece of bread must have seemed to her and how every button was treasured. But somehow it all came over me when one speaker, an elderly man, said he would always remember her as a little girl in braids with her baby brother in her arms crossing the plains. You were eleven then, a little girl in braids, and Charlie was nearly always in your arms. And suddenly you were she and she was you. And all 514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. that the little girl had gone through came before me: the hardships she had endured: the babies she had borne and buried: the sons and daughters she had shared with others. Then the tears came and your father's love returned to me because it embraced us both. His mother and I were one in sympathetic understanding. For months he could not realize that the old spite was gone and when I would say 'your mother,' a hurt, almost pleading look would come into his eyes — he so dreaded that I might criticize her — and when only warm words of appreciation or admiration came, how grateful he looked and how his love for me deepened!" Ardelle was weeping gently, not tears of self-pity but tears of sympathy for Tom's mother: "I wonder if it was my fault," she cried with contrition, "I spoke sharply and it may have agitated her so she slipped and fell." There was a sudden step outside and Tom blustered in. "Where's mother?" he demanded. His tones suggested that she was in the hands of fierce enemies. Then he caught sight of Ardelle and a look of wonderment came into his eyes. "Please, Tom, let me wait on her," she cried. "Let me do for her a few of the little kindnesses she did for you before I took you from her." The rest was breathed into Tom's shoulder, and a few minutes later the two, arm in arm, knelt at the bedside of the aged sufferer while the nurse left the room. Tom's mother opened her eyes and saw Ardelle. "A person can't always tell when the electricity is turned off," she murmured. "It's best to unscrew the plug." "Yes, mother," Ardelle exclaimed gently, "I believe you are right. I must try to remember." WHAT NEIGHBORS SAY. If you are regular in attending church, you are too pious. If you don't attend church, you are on the road to perdition. If you send your family away for the summer, it is more than you can afford. If you don't, you are stingy. If you happen to be successful in business, you achieved success by swindling. If you don't succeed, you missed your calling. If you give freely to charity you do it for show. If you don't, you are classed as a skinflint. If your wife does her own