General Church Offices Frontispiece
======================================================================

general manager at London, Colonel Alexander G. Hawes. With the exception of my own kin, and my immediate associates in the Church, no man has been a nearer and dearer friend to me than Col. Hawes. He came to my mother's home, when I was a child, and when she was boarding a nephew of Daniel H. Wells and his wife. The nephew was Park Woods, who was working for the New York Life, and Col. Hawes was then the general manager with headquarters at Leavenworth, Kansas. I took the Colonel's letter of introduction to his successor at London and was treated in a very courteous way by him and by his four assistants. One of those assistant managers invited some newspaper men and others to his home to give me an opportunity to meet them and explain my faith to them. One of these assistant managers had been connected with the British legation at Constantinople. He had spent years of his life in the Holy Land, and we discussed his experiences. He had spent some time in America. He told me in substance: "Mr. Grant, I want to tell you of an incident in Canada, which to me was most inexplicable. In my travels in the Holy Land, I found certain patterns were used in weaving oriental rugs, and I had never found those patterns in any other part of the world; and yet, lo and behold! I found these very identical patterns up in Canada among the heathen Indians, and I cannot conceive how under the heavens those people could have the same patterns when they had never heard of the Holy Land. This is the most inexplicable thing I ever met in my life." I replied, "That is easy to me; did you ever see the Book of Mormon?" "No." "Well, I will send you a copy, and you will discover that the forefathers of the American Indians came from the Holy Land, from Jerusalem." He said, "That explains it all." It was to the Latter-day Saints a simple matter, but to him, remarkable. It is the spirit that gives life and animation, and the main thing to seek in studying the Book of Mormon is the spirit of that very wonderful and remarkable book. I can remember very distinctly when Uncle Anthony Ivins, brother of the father of Elder Anthony W. Ivins, said to me and to his son Anthony C. Ivins: "Heber, Anthony, have you read the Book of Mormon?" We answered, "No." REMARKS BY PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 501 He said, "I want you to read it. I want you to pledge to me that you will not skip a word, and to the one who reads it first, I will give a pair of $6 buckskin gloves with beaver tops." Any boy of fourteen who had a pair of those gloves thought he was "it." I remember that my mother had urged me to read systematically the Book of Mormon, but I had not done it. I determined to read the book, say, twenty-five pages a day, and get the benefit of its contents. I believed its contents were true, because my mother and many others had told me so; and because of the testimony of the teacher of the class that Richard W. Young and I attended, I thought that to win the gloves I would have to read the book so rapidly that I would get no benefit; and therefore decided to let Anthony win the gloves. I met my cousin Anthony C. the next morning, and asked, "How many pages have you read?" He answered, "I sat up nearly all night, and I have read three hundred pages." "Good-bye, gloves," said I. I went on reading twenty-five pages a day, and occasionally two or three times that number. I won the gloves all right. I got the spirit of the book; I got the love of the book in my heart when a boy, and it has never departed from me. And something else I received: I obtained a testimony in my soul that Nephi, the most prominent character mentioned in the fore part of the book, was indeed a servant of the living God. We naturally follow any friend or character in history with whom we fall in love. I have been accredited with being reasonably generous. Well, one of the reasons why I am generous is because I fell in love with Col. Hawes. Just an example of his generosity: A man died who had been insured in his company, and Col. Hawes asked that he be appointed administrator of the estate. He managed it so well that he educated all the young people of the family. One of the children told me how marvelous were the returns from that money. She also said, "The Colonel left me a couple of thousand dollars as an appreciation of my kindness to his ward, and his ward was my youngest sister." Now, I fell in love with Nephi as with no man that ever lived with whom I was acquainted. More than any other man in history, Nephi has shaped my character. Now sisters, if you can get your sons and daughters to fall in love with some splendid character in that book, and get the spirit of the book, it will be of more value than any other study. I became thoroughly impressed with Nephi's statement, that the Lord gives no commandments unto the children of men, save he will prepare the way for them to carry out what he commands. When the Lord told him to build a boat which would carry the company across the great waters, 502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. he said he could do anything the Lord wanted him to. If we can get into our minds the faith that everything the Lord requires of us he will give us ability to accomplish, if we are only humble and diligent enough and willing to cultivate the natural faculties that we possess, our lives will be successful. The greatest asset for men and women in the world is the feeling in their hearts that they can do anything which the Lord requires of them. I have read that Sandow was a weakly, sickly child, yet he developed his physical powers till he could lift several thousand pounds. His friends said, no, he could never lift a steer. He said he could, and explained, "I am going to start with lifting a little calf, and lift it once a day, and when I get through I will get your money." He succeeded, all right, though that steer was a three-year-old when he last lifted it. Those of us who are familiar with the life of Theodore Roosevelt, the great American, know that he came out West to be a cowboy, that he might gain physical strength; and we know that he became a very strong man physically, because he devoted his effort to becoming strong. There are very few things in life that, with determination and persistence we cannot accomplish, and I know of no other character in history who has inspired me so strongly with this truth, that one can accomplish what the Lord requires, as has Nephi. Without resentment, he met troubles, and sorrows, and complaints and criticisms from his own father and brothers, and went steadily on performing the duties that devolved upon him. At one time when his brothers had bound him hand and foot he was singing praises to God. It takes a good deal of a man to pass through tribulations, and yet pursue a steady, constant course towards that which he knows to be right. The wonderful characters in the Book of Mormon carry an inspiration to me beyond that of any others of whom I have read. I believe that there is rich inspiration in the book, and if you can only get your children to read it with a humble and prayerful heart, and get the spirit of it, as they read the book, you will find it to be the greatest book in all the world for the children of the Latter-day Saints. The Book of Mormon has a very warm place in my heart because of one of its chapters. I had a wayward brother who took no interest whatever in the Church until he was between thirty-five and forty years of age. I received a letter from him, telling me that on account of the failure of our placer mines in Oregon, where he had invested large sums of money, — all that we had and all that we could borrow — that he had been tempted, as he had financially ruined me, to kill himself. He went out into the woods intending to kill himself; but he got to thinking what a cowardly, dastardly act it would be for him to leave his wife and REMARKS BY PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 503 children destitute. So, instead of killing himself, he knelt down and prayed: "O God, if there is a God." And he got up weeping for joy, and he wrote me that he had become convinced of two things: that there is a God, and that there is a devil, one leading to life and the other to death. He sealed his letter, and then the influence came over him: "You have now ruined your brother, and now you are trying to make amends by telling him you have commenced to pray." He threw the letter into his trunk. He wrote me letters every day for about a week, all landing in his trunk, but finally he mailed one. He struggled with the influence: "Your brother, when he gets that letter, will write and tell you to be baptized, and if you do so you will be a hypocrite." After lying awake all one night, he went at five o'clock in the morning and got the letter. But he finally sent me another. When I got it, instead of writing him as the adversary impressed him that I would, I wrote him: "Some day you will know the gospel is true. Don't think that I want you to be baptized, if you feel that you would be a hypocrite." I went out and bought him a Book of Mormon, went into my office, shut the door, and told the Lord I wanted to open the book to the chapter that would do a wayward and careless brother of mine the most good; and this is the chapter to which I opened. Anyone who knows the contents of the book will admit that he cannot find another chapter comparable with the 36th chapter of Alma, nor more appropriate for sending to a wayward boy. (The speaker here read the first paragraph of the 36th chapter of Alma, then said:) Let me say in passing that Alma knew no better than I know, that those who put their trust in God shall be supported in all manner of afflictions and trials, because I have passed through trials and tribulations and have been supported by him. I was able to sit by the deathbed of my last living son, for whom I had great expectations, and see him die without my shedding a tear; and there was a most peaceful feeling in my heart when he passed away. So I know, as Alma of old knew, that those who trust in God shall be supported in their tribulation. (The remainder of the chapter was read, the speaker emphasizing the last paragraph.) I love that chapter. Why? Because, when that wayward brother of mine read it, he wrote: "Heber, I do not know the gospel is true, but I pledge the Lord, if he ever gives me, as he gave Alma of old, a knowledge of the divinity of the gospel, that I will labor as Alma of old labored, to bring souls to a knowledge of the truth." And, thank the Lord, he obtained the knowledge, and thank the Lord also, he has kept his pledge. I know no man among all my acquaintances who has done a tithe of the reclamation work that he has done, who has become more devoted, and 504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. who is doing more to reclaim the wayward and bring them to the knowledge of the gospel and right living. In a single winter he induced over six hundred careless boys to join the Mutual Improvement Associations. He accomplished this by laboring, often until midnight; and not only until midnight, but occasionally until one and two o'clock in the morning. I read the Book of Mormon when a boy fourteen or fifteen years of age, and the spirit which accompanied the reading of this wonderful book, gave me great admiration for the servants of the Lord whose lives are recorded therein. I fell in love with Nephi and resolved to endeavor to live such a life as he lived. When Nephi and his brothers failed to secure the brass plates, the elder brother desired to return to their father's tent in the wilderness, but Nephi said: "As the Lord liveth, we will not go down unto our father's tent in the wilderness, until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us." They gathered their treasures together and offered them to Laban in exchange for the brass plates. He stole their property and ordered his servants to slay them. When Nephi again tried to persuade his brothers to go back, to make another attempt to get the plates, they began striking him with a rod. While they were doing so, an angel of God appeared and commanded them to stop beating their younger brother, and informed them that if they would go up again to Jerusalem, the Lord would deliver Laban into their hands. Did Nephi's brothers believe this message from the angel? No. I have heard many people say, "If I could only see an angel, I would certainly believe any message which he might deliver to me." These brothers of Nephi saw an angel, but he had no sooner disappeared than they said: "How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands? Behold he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea, even, he can slay fifty; then why not us?" Nephi's reply was: "Behold he [the Lord] is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty; yea, or even than his tens of thousands." Nephi gave the key to success when he said to his brothers on this occasion: "Let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord." I rejoice in meeting with you here. It seems to me that this is the most largely attended conference ever held in this building, by the Relief Societies, or any other of our auxiliary organizations. I feel that I am entitled to be counted as a charter member of the Relief Society. My mother was the president of the Thirteenth ward society for thirty years. I attended their meetings from childhood. My mother often told me that some day I would be an apostle, if I would only behave myself; and after I was called to the REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON. 505 apostleship, she told me why she had made that statement. When I was a little boy, playing on the floor, in the home of the late William C. Staines, when a little group of sisters were meeting, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Mother Whitney, and some others were there, including my mother. Sister Whitney sang a song in tongues. I remember her singing, but did not understand her. Sister Snow gave a blessing by the gift of tongues, to every one of those good sisters who were there; and Aunt Zina Young gave the interpretation. Aunt Eliza then turned and blessed the boy upon the floor, and promised that he should live to be one of the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. My mother treasured that in her heart, and she confidently looked forward to its fulfillment, if only I would live a clean, sweet life, because she knew this promise had been made by the Spirit of God through the gift of tongues and interpretation thereof through two pure, noble women. My mother told me that she also had an impression in her heart that my cousin Anthony would also become an apostle, and he is the man who has just addressed you this afternoon. I see, my sisters, that the time has passed. God bless you. Amen.