Whither Thou Goest
LaRene King Bleecker
SEVEN-YEAR-OLD Dolma, in a calico dress, sat on the spring seat of a heavy freight wagon, her knees drawn up under her. "How far away is it where Father is?" she asked dreamily, staring straight ahead at the blue stretch of horizon.
"Around five hundred miles, or more," Hope said, squinting up at the slanting sun. Just a few days away, but weeks and weeks distant at the rate the oxen traveled.
"How did we ever get so far behind," Hope wondered, looking at her children?Dolma, with her thin, eager face and light brown pigtails, and Junior, whose dark hair and eyes matched Ron's. The other teams could not possibly be more than a mile ahead, or two perhaps, if they made good time. But her own oxen were tired, and her food was getting low, and Juney was only two years old.
In the seat beside Dolma, Juney dug at his sleepy eyes with rigid little fists. "Sleepy boy," Hope said, absently, and when she spoke to the oxen, her voice was automatic. Her thoughts were with Ron who rode ahead of the company as scout and look-out man, so commissioned by Brigham Young. It had been days since she had seen him.
She thought about the house they had built back in Nauvoo. They had loved it so, and had lived there just long enough to become attached to it. And in the next lot were the Rigbys?Margaret and Sam. They, too, had a new home, built in expectation of their first child.
The day Ron and Sam had come from town (their faces and clothing black with the smoke and grime of an all-night vigil fighting fires set by the mob) she and Margaret had been planning next year's flower gardens. A seed catalogue fell to the floor as the men came through the door. "Pack and be in readiness to cross the river. Orders have come to evacuate Nauvoo," Ron said, hurriedly. "But our house, Ron?the first real home Dol and Juney have ever had."
Hope bent over for the catalogue, but Margaret had retrieved it and was beside Sam showing him the attractive pages. "Look, zinnias and larkspur and hollyhocks. And see these pansies, Sam. We'll plant a bed of them near our baby's window."
That had been weeks ago, and they had lost track of the Rigbys; and back across the river in Nauvoo, their homes, and many others, were a mass of ruins.
"Oh, well," Hope thought, "we lived there four or five months. And now it will be some place else. I've lived all my life following someone else around?first, my father who was a minister, always changing parishes; then, Aunt Amy who moved when she got the urge, and she was always having urges. The only time she ever stayed in one place was after she embraced the Gospel. She had been baptized in New York State, and had been loyal to the Saints until she died.
"With her legacy I could have settled down in a real home with a life of my own, and I could have gone on with my music," Hope thought. "But then I had to meet and fall in love with Ronald, and marry him, and move from county to county and from state to state, wherever the Mormons were gathered."
And now they were moving on and on farther west. And Ron was one of the leaders, going on ahead to clear the way for the wagon trains. She loved him so that nothing else mattered.
She thought of their parting at Sugar Creek. Their words were casual. "Take care of yourselves," Ron said, his eyes on Hope, standing with Dolma and Juney, waiting to see him off. She turned quickly to go into the tent. "See you at Council Bluffs," she said. But Dolma pulled her back. "I want to see Father ride over the hill," Dolma said. "I don't," Hope thought. "I don't want to see him go." But she stood between the two children, holding their hands, watching Ron ride swiftly toward the horizon. He waved once, and then he was gone.
"Us women are alone, now," Dolma said, walking briskly back with Hope to the wagon.
WHEN days had passed without Ron's coming to visit them at various camps along the way, Dolma prayed every night for her father's return. "Send Father back to us," she prayed with the solemn faith of a seven-year-old. "Please send Father back to us. Please send him back." Then she laughed happily. "I think He heard me, Mother, 'cause I heard a voice say, 'All right, Dolma.'"
"Don't count too much on it, darling," Hope said. "There may be more important things the Lord wants your father to do."
Then she received a letter. Ron had sent it with a returning rider: "I can't come back for you," he wrote her, "and I haven't located Sam so that you could travel along with him. Do you think you can get here alone?"
"Oh simple," Hope said, using one of Margaret's favorite expressions. "All the oxen have to do is to move a foot at a time, and its easy to move a foot at a time with them." Now, jabbing the whip stock into the iron socket, she pushed the slatted sunbonnet back and rested her head against the back of the seat. "Oh simple," she thought, wryly. Days and days of making the children comfortable, of driving the plodding oxen! Nights and nights of making camp, then up again early, and on, being cheerful because of the children, pretending everything is all right, pretending to Dolma that someday we'll have a home of our own!"
For a moment she let resentment fill her. "Why should I go on? Why should I always have to leave my home, any home, to follow Ron to the ends of the earth?" Ron loved going. In spite of all that he said, he loved going. "That's it," she thought. He was absorbed in his work for the Church, and proud because of the trust the brethren placed in him. "What do I have? Why should he, because he is a man and loves change and adventure, keep moving; and why should I, just because I am a woman, be expected to follow and wait? He has work that he loves. And I drag along, rationing the food, day after day, to keep the children from starving."
We'll drive thousands of miles and live in a one-room hut made of crude logs, and I'll tell Dol stories about the house we're going to build. For years I've been telling her that. "Yes, darling. We'll have a house with lots of windows in it to let in the sunlight, and carpets on the floors, and a trundle bed for you and one for Juney." Someday,... Oh yes, someday. But when?
She leaned her shoulder against the wagon bow and stared out at the rolling hills. One more hill. What's on the other side? Oh, just another hill. On and on and on?forever. And all day and every evening, the trek of wagons and cattle; men, women, and children, all pushing forward to an unknown goal. Often she recognized friends and neighbors; more often the faces were unfamiliar. But all were stamped with the same inflexible determination.
Thinking of this, Hope sighed. And Dolma's eyes turned at once from the dusty wagon trail. The pigtails swung. "Tell about the future, Mother," she said.
"Oh, not again. Look out and see if the cow is still tied securely. We've got to have milk for Juney."
"Mother tell us just as you did before, only put more in about us women."
Hope's young face, gray with dust and fatigue, cracked into a smile. "Look, darling. In ten years from now you'll be a young lady, as old as I was when I was baptized."
"Only I'll be baptized when I'm eight," reminded Dolma.
"Yes. When you're eight.... And us women, Dol, will still be just like we are now. Only then we'll have an active Relief Society, the kind the Prophet Joseph organized the day Aunt Anne was there. And Dol, I hope you'll always have a generous heart and love everyone."
"Will we have a home, Mother, with Father there, and all?"
"Yes, a real home. And Father will be there."
Dolma laughed, delightedly. Juney kicked his legs and said, "Yah, Yah!"