[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS

Granite Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah)

EARL H. CROCKETT, Granite Stake Magazine representative, submitted the following report:

"The Lion House Social Center was the scene of a picturesque luncheon given for the ward Magazine representatives, ward presidents and ward membership coordinators by the Granite Stake Relief Society, on September 16, 1941. Because Magazine and membership are so closely related to each other and the success of each affects the other, we felt the need for bringing the Magazine representatives and coordinators together. A bowl of varicolored flowers centered the table, and at each plate there was a scroll of paper, held in place by a flower and ribbon.

"The purpose of the fourth 'annual get-together luncheon' was to inject each one present with a dose of 'pep,' making them immune to discouragement, disappointment, and doubt, preparatory to the opening of our Magazine drive which was to take place during the month of October.

"Our special guest for the day was General President Amy Brown Lyman, who willingly gave us of her fund of knowledge and experience pertaining to the Magazine. We were privileged to give our ward workers the benefit of her inspiration.

"During the course of the afternoon, the twenty scrolls marking the places were untied, and each guest found typewritten thereon a pertinent fact, gathered by Counselor Vauna S. Jacobsen, pertaining to the Magazine, several of which are here quoted:

1. The Relief Society Magazine is printed with clear, legible type on paper that must be ordered one year in advance. This is of special benefit to older women.
2. There is a minimum of advertising in the Magazine, and none running through the contents. All advertising is either at the front or the back. In each issue there are 74 pages of good reading material.
3. The Relief Society Magazine is an excellent outlet for the literary talent of our Latter-day Saint women. It attracts many of our best creative writers in the fields of prose, poetry, and fiction.
4. Timely articles on current problems are a special feature of the Magazine.
5. The Relief Society Magazine is distributed throughout the United States, including the territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and in Canada, Australia, Africa, South America, Mexico, Canal Zone, most European countries (prior to the war), India, China, the islands of the sea, and Syria.
6. The Magazine is preserved in the Library of Congress, and many other leading libraries of the nation.
7. The Relief Society Magazine was preceded throughout the year 1914 by the Relief Society Bulletin, a modest monthly periodical of 16 pages, the major portion of which was devoted to lesson material.
8. In January 1915, the Bulletin was enlarged to contain articles, stories, and poems of general interest and was issued under the new title, The Relief Society Magazine.
9. The Magazine is of convenient size, easy to carry and to hold.
10. The circulation of The Relief Society Magazine is over 55,000 and it is increasing each month.
11. The publishing of the Magazine is a non-profit enterprise. The selling price of $1.00 is used to benefit the subscriber, and has been maintained since establishment of the Magazine despite greatly increased paper and labor charges."

"All of the facts read that day were afterwards furnished in compiled form to each of the wards, and helped to equip them to go forward in their respective wards to accomplish their goal of obtaining subscriptions to equal the enrollment."

Much credit for the consistent success of the Magazine campaign year after year in this stake is due the stake and ward officers, headed by Agnes M. Bolto, stake president, who fully support and cooperate with their faithful and energetic Magazine representatives.

South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California)

ROSINE BAUER, Magazine representative of the South Los Angeles Stake, reports that the annual Magazine promotion campaign was held in this stake during the month of June. Preparations for this campaign were made at a preliminary meeting and luncheon in May, attended by ward Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives and by Hazel T. NeVille, stake Relief Society president and other stake officers. All wards represented accepted the proposed plan to visit every home in the stake which was without the Relief Society Magazine. Care was taken to select for visiting these homes those women who could tactfully and effectively present the values of the Magazine.

Sister Bauer reports: "We have not used any force whatsoever in getting the Magazine into the homes. I have instructed all Magazine representatives that if the Magazine means a lot to them and they enjoy reading it they can encourage others to read it. During the month of June, I asked the wards to give two and one-half minute talks in Sunday School on some article from The Relief Society Magazine. The purpose was to bring before the people of the ward the wonderful material the Magazine contains, but no selling or sales talk was allowed. Permission to make these talks was granted by the stake Sunday School superintendency and the ward Sunday School superintendencies and the bishops."

At the preparation meeting above referred to, the stake Magazine representative issued to each ward two typewritten statements, one entitled "Our Goal for Relief Society Magazine in the Centennial Year 1942" and "Instructions and Counsel to all Relief Society Presidents and Magazine Representatives." Following are typical excerpts from the statement relating to the assigned goal:

1. Why 1,000 subscriptions for South Los Angeles Stake? Because half of our people do not realize what they miss, not having this Magazine in their homes.
2. The Relief Society Magazine always has very valuable reading in its pages. This centennial year the Magazine is full of Relief Society history and messages from our Church leaders, and contains serially the life story of our General Relief Society President, Amy Brown Lyman.
3. Meetings and Church activities are curtailed; therefore we should read more, fill our minds constantly with words of wisdom, gain knowledge of what is going on throughout the Church, and keep in close contact with our Relief Society General Board through The Relief Society Magazine.
4. The contents of The Relief Society Magazine deal with educational, spiritual, and temporal values.
5. Relief Society president of every ward should consult her bishop and ask for his cooperation in the Magazine campaign.
6. Make special effort to get the Magazine into the homes of new members, for members of the Relief Society are interested in the progress and activity of this noble and important work.
7. The Magazine representative is to check on renewals each month carefully and regularly, using information provided by her own record and by the pink expiration slips sent by The Relief Society Magazine office.
8. Magazine representatives are requested to check ahead one month and hand out envelopes one month in advance of expiration, explaining to these members that they will call in a month's time for the renewal subscription.
9. Each ward Magazine representative is requested to report monthly to her ward Relief Society president and to the stake Magazine representative the results of follow-up work on expirations.
10. Read the article in the Magazine for March 1942, by Leah D. Widtsoe, "What Relief Society Means to Me," in which she states, "The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring."

MAGAZINE GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS

MANY gift subscriptions are placed each year by individuals who order the Relief Society Magazine for their friends or relatives. Each recipient of a gift subscription receives from the office of the General Board a special gift card announcing the gift. In addition to gift subscriptions by individuals, many Relief Societies provide for gift subscriptions either from their general fund or from funds especially collected for this purpose. Following are a few examples of this service:

Societies of Southern California have submitted several gift subscriptions for Relief Society women in the British Mission. The Powell Branch of the Big Horn Stake has sent a total of six gift subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine during the past few months, leaving the distribution of these subscriptions to the discretion of the General Board. These gift subscriptions were divided among a new branch Relief Society on the island of Lanai, Hawaii, Navajo Indian members, and investigators near Shiprock, New Mexico, and missionaries. One of these gift subscriptions from the Powell Branch was the award subscription earned by Irene E. Spafford, the Magazine representative, for obtaining during 1941 subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 percent of the Relief Society membership, and was made available specifically for a missionary.

The gift subscriptions for the use of the new branch Relief Society on the island of Lanai were sent after receiving a letter from Elder Avard W. Booth reporting the organization of this new branch and remitting a subscription for the new Relief Society president. He wrote:

"During the third week of January of this year here on the small island of Lanai we organized what to our knowledge was the first Relief Society on the island. We had an initial attendance of about 25. Since that time we have held our meetings as per schedule and have found, as is inevitably true, that the Relief Society offers to its members unparalleled opportunities not only in religious instruction, literature, handiwork, and home improvement, but also in leadership."

Later he acknowledged the receipt of the gift subscriptions and stated, "Our heartfelt thanks go to the Powell Branch Relief Society of the Big Horn Stake which has made the donations possible. You may rest assured that the Magazines will be put to the very best of service and will be a great aid in our work here on Lanai."

In the new but small Relief Society at Shiprock, the president, Emma Evans, reported in May that "all activities were carried on by an average of three women. A beautiful yellow quilt was made, an equally beautiful temple suit handed in, and all meetings held.... I am sure that this fall we will have fun planting our evergreen tree (for the centennial) which is somewhere on the Lukachukai or 'beautiful mountain.'"

In acknowledging the gift subscriptions, Sister Evans expressed deep gratitude "because we have some worthy Navajo new members and investigators who would love and read and digest the Magazine." One of these subscriptions was sent to Mrs. George Jumbo who, with a lady missionary, walked 16 miles over mountain trails (from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.) to attend a Navajo conference held in June on top of the mountains at Crystal, New Mexico, where 14 Navajo converts were baptized. One of these converts was also the recipient of a gift subscription. Mrs. Jumbo and the missionary walked to this conference because the truck in which they were riding broke down. Mrs. Evans says, "They limped in, just in time to bear forceful testimonies at the last meeting. Mrs. Jumbo had walked on and on, her only desire being to tell her people the Gospel was true—and she did."

Several local Relief Societies have reported the gift of a Magazine subscription to their public library. It is suggested that this service might be extended, wherever libraries do not have funds for purchase of a subscription for the Relief Society Magazine, and wherever the availability of the Relief Society Magazine in the public library would be an advantage.

Many stake and ward Relief Societies are making a special effort to preserve back issues of the Relief Society Magazine in their stake or ward libraries, having the volumes bound wherever possible. Several of these take advantage of the binding materials which are available at the offices of the General Board, doing their own binding. In order to make the bound volumes of the Magazine and other books in the stake Relief Society library more available to the public, the Timpanogos stake Relief Society had its bookcase moved into the public library. This stake had collected and placed in its library all bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine from the beginning.

One ward in the Duchesne Stake has even accepted produce in payment for Relief Society Magazine subscriptions. The Holladay Ward of the Big Cottonwood Stake has provided all missionaries from the ward with a subscription to the Magazine from a penny fund to which the members contribute for this purpose. The Taylorsville Ward of the Cottonwood Stake keeps a Relief Society Magazine penny box available at the meetings in which members leave contributions for subscriptions for members unable to subscribe. The Bennion Ward of this stake also subscribes for the Magazine for missionaries. The Grant Stake has conducted Magazine silver parties at which contributions were dropped into a bank constructed as a replica of the Magazine. These contributions were used to purchase subscriptions for members who otherwise would not have access to the Magazine.

COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE READERS

FOLLOWING are excerpts from a few of the letters received by the General Board of Relief Society expressing appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine:

Will you please renew my subscription for the Magazine for another year. The Magazine is wonderful. I wouldn't do without it, if I can possibly get the money. I got it this time. What will happen another year is unsure, as my son, my only child left, is now in the army, and I am a widow, and with him so far away I can't run to him for money. Anyhow, maybe he will provide for me from there. I am so glad I can have the Magazine to read at least for another year. —Georgetown, Idaho

I know of no magazine that I look forward to as our Relief Society Magazine. If every member enjoyed it as I do, it would be in every home. I cannot afford to lose one, as each number contains such wonderful things to help us to live better lives and to become better wives, mothers, and neighbors. It is a book of inspiration, and helps one to carry on this great work. —Manti, Utah

We do enjoy the Relief Society Magazine, and the material in it is certainly fine. I am especially happy at the choice of lessons for the coming year. We have all enjoyed the theology lessons on the Articles of Faith and now that we are going to take the Literature of the Bible, I cannot tell you how grateful I am for this choice. —Denver, Colorado

I am a member of the Relief Society and thoroughly enjoy the work as class leader. I always read our Magazine from cover to cover and find the autobiography of Sister Amy Brown Lyman very inspirational. —Shoshone, Idaho

My mother was president of the Draper Ward Relief Society for seven years and my wife has been an active worker and teacher here in St. Johns stake since our marriage five years ago. You see, having the Magazine in our home for years, I have learned to appreciate its value. The Relief Society Magazine is "tops." —St. Johns and Eagar, Arizona

Your Magazine is wonderful, a great blessing and comfort. May we have more stories such as Amy Brown Lyman's, "In Retrospect." Church history and the lives of our faithful Saints inspire us to carry on. Your lessons are wonderful. It is difficult for me to get in to meetings. —Tempe, Arizona

I've made two or three a present of our dear Magazine each year since I've been in this great cause, and the dollars I've spent for this great book have been well spent, and I feel like it has helped the ones I've given it to. Our ward is small but very scattered, and I cover a large area before I get around to them all. —Richfield, Utah

May I take this occasion to express my appreciation of the Magazine? I live at too great a distance from the chapel to attend meetings in these times of scarce tires, and the Relief Society Magazine surely helps to make up for the lack. There are no other Saints in this section, and though many of the people are good and kind, I miss the spiritual companionship I enjoyed so much in Baltimore. Recently I was invited to a ladies' aid meeting of another church. I attended and came away feeling "let-down" and almost bitter. There was no spiritual message whatever, not even a song! How very fortunate we are to have the enlightened leadership we have in our own Church. Our leaders realize that women, too, hunger for other than material food. —White Hall, Maryland

The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful—just full of good things to read, and I look forward to receiving it. —Fennville, Michigan

"We appreciate your Magazine more than we can express, a magazine which we have found indispensable." —Carnegie Free Library, Ogden, Utah

I have been a Relief Society member and a subscriber to your Magazine since our ward organized a Relief Society in June 1936. I've read every copy of the Magazine since then "from cover to cover." My mother and both my grandmothers were and are Relief Society members. I have been a class leader of the social science department and am now a visiting teacher and coordinator. The only way I see you can improve the Magazine is to make more of it. —Nephi, Utah

I received my third Magazine just a few days ago, and how I have enjoyed them. For years I have read the national ladies' magazines and each time after reading them or glancing through them they were ready to be discarded. May I tell you how sincere and real and honest my Relief Society Magazines are to me. I shall treasure them all. —Idaho Falls, Idaho

In talking to the sisters at the organization of our branch Relief Society, my husband, who is branch president, said: "Sisters, the Relief Society Magazine is one of the best magazines printed, and each month when it comes I try to beat my wife to it. I start at the front page and read on through." —Wichita Falls, Texas
