[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
field  to  the  general  membership  of  beliefs  and  in  their  way  of  life  from 
the  Church  at  home.  All  Latter-day  the  general  run  of  people.  The  true 
Saints  now  have  unusual  and  abun-  Latter-day  Saint  takes  pride  in  that 
dant  opportunity  to  teach  the  Cos-  which  he  does  or  does  not  do  that 
pel  in  the  most  impressive  and  ef-  makes  him  stand  out  as  peculiar.  He 
fective  way— by  living  according  to  adheres  strictly  to  the  standards  of 
Church  standards  every  day  under  the  Church,  obeying  its  teachings 
all  circumstances.  regardless    of   pressure    or    circum- 
If  they  will  do  this,  then  those  stance.  In  so  doing,  he  holds  the 
with  whom  they  mingle,  seeing  their  respect  of  those  who  believe  and  do 
good  works,  the  fruits  of  Mormon-  as  he  does,  as  well  as  those  who  do 
ism,  will  look  with  favor  upon  their  not.    He    reflects    credit    upon    his 
religion;  and  some,  no  doubt,  will  be  Church  and  is  an  influence  for  good, 
influenced  to  accept  the  Latter-day  and  enjoys  the  personal  satisfaction 
Saint  way  of  life.  that  comes  only  from  right  living. 
-B.  S.  S. 
(bthei  Uj.  Andrew  [fiesigns 
I 
T  is  with  sincere  regret  that  the  has  been  a  willing  and  devoted  work- 
Relief  Society  General  Board  an-  er,  sensing  her  responsibilities  and, 
nounces  the  resignation  from  the  at  the  same  time,  valuing  her  call- 
Board  of  Ethel  Bean  Andrew.  The  ing.  She  has  been  generous  with  her 
resignation,  tendered  June  1942,  was  time  and  abilities,  serving  efficiently 
made  necessary  because  of  the  on  committees,  and  attending  many 
change  in  residence  of  the  Andrew  stake  Relief  Society  conferences, 
family  from  Ogden,  Utah,  to  Nam-  While  she  will  be  missed  in  the 
pa,  Idaho.  Sister  Andrew  has  been  councils  of  the  General  Board,  she 
a  member  of  the  General  Board  since  will  no  doubt  find  many  opportuni- 
January  1940,  when  the  General  ties  for  continued  service  in  the  com- 
Board  was  reorganized  following  the  munity  into  which  she  has  now 
appointment  of  Amy  Brown  Lyman  moved. 
as  general  president.  Her  fellow  Board  members  extend 
Sister  Andrew  brought  to  her  po-  to  her  their  love  and  appreciation  for 
sition  the  wisdom  of  years  of  experi-  her  many  contributions  to  Relief  So- 
ence  in  Relief  Society  work,  and  as  ciety,  and  wish  her  happiness  in  her 
a  member  of  the  General  Board  she  new  home.

TbJtoA, TO  THE  FIELD 
Jxfinual  uielief  Society^  Short  Story  (contest 
THE  Relief  Society  General 
Board  is  pleased  to  announce 
the  inauguration  of  an  annual 
short  story  contest  designed  to  stim- 
ulate fiction-writing  among  Latter- 
day  Saint  women,  to  develop  greater 
appreciation  for  this  type  of  creative 
writing,  and  to  encourage  high  stand- 
ards of  work.  The  contest  for  1942 
opens  with  this  announcement,  and 
closes  November  15.  Three  prizes 
will  be  awarded,  as  follows:  first 
prize,  $25;  second  prize,  $20;  third 
prize  $15.  The  three  prize- winning 
stories  will  be  published  consecutive- 
ly in  the  first  three  issues  of  the 
Reliei  Society  Magazine  for  1943. 
Prizewinning  stories  will  become  the 
property  of  the  General  Board,  and 
may  not  be  published  by  others  ex- 
cept by  written  permission  from  the 
General  Board.  The  General  Board 
reserves  the  right  to  publish  any  of 
the  other  stories  entered  in  the  con- 
test, paying  for  them  at  the  regular 
Magazine  rates  at  the  time  of  publi- 
cation. 
RULES  OF  THE  CONTEST  , 
1.  This  contest  is  open  to  Latter-day  Saint 
women  who  have  had  at  least  one  literary 
composition  published  or  accepted  for 
publication  by  a  publication  of  recog- 
nized merit.  Members  of  the  General 
Board  of  Relief  Society  and  persons 
connected  with  the  Relief  Society  office 
staff  are  not  eligible  to  enter  this  contest. 
2.  Only  one  story  may  be  submitted  by  a 
contestant. 
3.  All  stories  must  be  submitted  before 
November  15,  1942. 
4.  The  story  shall  not  exceed  3000  words, 
and  shall  be  typewritten. 
5.  The  author's  name  shall  not  appear  any- 
where on  the  manuscript,  but  a  stamped 
envelope  on  which  is  written  the  con- 
testant's name  and  address,  shall  be  en- 
closed with  the  story.  Nom  de  plumes 
should  not  be  used. 
6.  A  statement  is  to  accompany  each  story 
submitted  certifying: 
(1)  that  the  author  has  had  at  least 
one  literary  composition  published 
or  accepted  for  publication.  (This 
statement  must  give  name  and  date 
of  publication  in  which  the  contest- 
ant's work  has  appeared,  or,  if  not 
yet  published,  evidence  of  accept- 
ance for  publication.); 
( 2 )  that  the  story  submitted  is  the  con- 
testant's original  work; 
(3)  that  it  has  never  been  pubHshed, 
that  it  is  not  now  in  the  hands  of 
an  editor  or  other  person  with  a 
view  to  publication,  and  that  it  will 
not  be  published  nor  submitted 
elsewhere  for  publication  until  the 
contest  is  decided. 
7.  A  writer  who  has  received  the  first  prize 
for  two  consecutive  years  must  wait  two 
years  before  she  is  again  eligible  to  enter 
the  contest. 
8.  There  shall  be  five  judges,  consisting  of 
two  members  of  the  General  Board,  two 
persons  connected  with  the  English  De- 
partment of  a  reputable  educational  in- 
stitution, and  a  writer  of  recognized 
merit. 
9.  All  entries  are  to  be  addressed  to:  Relief 
Society  Short  Story  Contest,  28  Bishop's 
Building,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
tbliza  [fioxey  Snow  ill emona I  [Prize  iroera  (contest 
THE  Eliza  Roxey   Snow   Relief  Three   prizes   are   awarded— a   first 
Society  Memorial  Prize  Poem  prize  of  $15,  a  second  prize  of  $10, 
Contest  is  conducted  annually  and  a  third  prize  of  $5.    The  prize 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board,  poems  are  published  each  year  in  the 
Page  552

NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD 
553 
January  issue  of  the  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  Prize-winning  poems  are 
the  property  of  the  Rehef  Society 
General  Board  and  may  not  be  used 
for  pubhcation  by  others  except  upon 
written  permission  from  the  General 
Board.  The  General  Board  reserves 
the  right  to  publish  any  of  the  other 
poems  submitted,  paying  for  the  pub- 
lished poems  at  the  regular  Maga- 
zine rates.  Rules  governing  the  con- 
test are  published  herewith. 
This  year  the  contest  will  open 
again  upon  publication  of  the  an- 
nouncement in  the  August  number 
of  the  Magazine,  and  will  close  Oc- 
tober 15.  No  definite  subject  has 
been  recomrriended  for  the  poems 
submitted.  This  has  been  the  pro- 
cedure since  1923,  the  first  year  of 
the  contest,  v^th  the  exception  of 
1941,  our  hundredth  year,  when  a 
definite  subject,  that  of  the  Relief 
Society  centennial,  was  the  theme  of 
all  poems  submitted  in  the  contest. 
The  object  of  the  contest  is  to  en- 
courage women  to  do  creative  writing 
in  the  form  of  poetry  and  to  appre- 
ciate more  keenly  the  beauty  and 
value  of  poetic  verse.  May  this  be 
an  outstanding  year  for  number  of 
participants  and  excellence  in  poetic 
expression. 
RULES  OF  THE  CONTEST 
1.  This  contest  is  open  to  all  Latter-day 
Saint  women. 
2.  Only  one  poem  may  be  submitted  by 
each  contestant. 
3.  The  poem  should  not  exceed  fifty 
lines  and  should  be  typewritten,  if  possible; 
where  this  cannot  be  done,  it  should  be 
legibly  written. 
4.  The  sheet  on  which  the  poem  is  writ- 
ten should  be  without  signature  or  other 
identifying  marks,  and  without  attached  ex- 
planatory material,  pictures,  et  cetera. 
5.  Only  one  side  of  the  paper  should 
be  used. 
6.  Each  poem  must  be  accompanied  by 
a  stamped  envelope  on  which  should  be 
written  the  contestant's  name  and  address. 
Nom  de  plumes  should  not  be  used. 
7.  Statement  should  accompany  the 
poem  submitted  certifying  that  it  is  the 
contestant's  original  work,  that  is  has  never 
been  published,  that  it  is  not  now  in  the 
hands  of  an  editor,  or  other  person,  with 
a  view  of  publication,  and  that  it  will  not 
be  published  nor  submitted  for  publication 
until  the  contest  is  decided. 
8.  Members  of  the  General  Board  and 
persons  connected  with  the  Relief  Society 
office  force  are  not  eligible  to  enter  this 
contest. 
9.  A  writer  who  has  received  the  first 
prize  for  two  consecutive  years  must  wait 
two  years  before  she  is  again  eligible  to 
enter  the  contest. 
10.  The  judges  shall  consist  of  one  mem- 
ber of  the  General  Board,  one  person  se- 
lected from  the  English  department  of  a 
reputable  educational  institution,  and  one 
from  among  the  group  of  persons  who  are 
recognized  as  writers. 
11.  The  poems  must  be  submitted  not 
later  than  October  15. 
12.  All  entries  should  be  addressed  to 
Eliza  R.  Snow  Memorial  Prize  Poem  Con- 
test Committee,  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah. 
LKeuef  Society  Vl/omen    Lirged  to  Support 
Saivage-for-  victory  [Program 
A GENERAL  salvage  committee  mittees  have  organized  thousands  of 
has  been  organized  in  each  state  county  and  local  salvage  committees 
headed  by  a  chairman  appointed  by  throughout  the  United  States,  all  of 
the  governor,  and  these  state  com-  whom  give  voluntary  service.    The

554 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
Relief  Society  desires  its  members 
throughout  the  United  States  to  co- 
operate fully  with  their  respective 
salvage  committees  by  serving  on  lo- 
cal salvage  committees  when  request- 
ed to  do  so,  by  announcing  in  Re- 
lief Society  meetings  the  collections 
which  are  conducted  from  time  to 
time  by  their  local  salvage  commit- 
tees, and  by  individually  supporting 
the  various  salvage  collections  as 
they  are  conducted. 
As  a  special  phase  of  the  salvage 
program,  the  collection  of  household 
fats  was  begun  in  July.  The  women's 
division  of  the  general  salvage  sec- 
tion of  the  War  Production  Board  at 
Washington,  D.  C,  has  released  in- 
formation on  this  subject  from  which 
the  following  excerpts  are  quoted: 
The  Bureau  of  Industrial  Conservation 
has  set  up  the  Fats  Salvage  Program  giving 
each  family  a  goal  of  between  one  and  two 
pounds  of  waste  cooking  fats  per  month 
which  would  yield  well  over  half  a  billion 
pounds  per  year.  It  is  estimated  that  two 
billions  of  pounds  of  kitchen  fats  are  now 
wasted  each  year. 
The  reasons  behind  this  effort  are  as  fol- 
lows: War  in  the  Pacific  has  reduced  im- 
ports of  fats  and  oils  from  the  Far  East, 
and  substitution  must  be  effected  to  replace 
this  loss  in  normal  supply.  Moreover, .  the 
war  effort  requires  glycerine  for  explosives 
and  other  war  needs,  both  for  our  own 
forces  and  those  of  our  alHes.  And  fats 
make  glycerine.  Therefore,  for  both  of 
these  reasons,  it  is  necessary  to  salvage  every 
possible  pound  of  waste  kitchen  fats. 
Two  pounds  of  waste  kitchen  fats  con- 
tain enough  glycerine  to  fire  five  anti-tank 
gun  shells. 
The  fat  salvage  program  primarily  in- 
volves the  women  of  this  country  .  .  .  but 
it  will  be  necessary  for  all  groups  of  women 
and  each  individual  woman  to  realize  that 
cooperation  is  essential  and  vital  to  the  war 
effort. 
In  cooperation  with  the  War 
Production  Board,  Glycerine  and 
Associated  Industries  have  contrib- 
uted leaflets  entitled,  ''Save  Your 
Waste  Fats  To  Make  Explosives!" 
These  leaflets  are  for  distribution  to 
every  household  through  local  sal- 
vage committees.  Where  requested 
to  do  so  by  their  local  salvage  com-