The Mormon Battalions
HISTORY doesn't say so, but there were two Mormon Battalions. One was made up of the sturdy, Godfearing men, who, in 1846, marched forth in answer to their country's call. The other was made up of the women left behind; the women who gave their sons, husbands and fathers and then carried on, regardless of hardship, to make possible the reclamation of the waste places. Those women, our mothers and grandmothers, the Relief Society members of a generation that is gone, gave us a lesson in fortitude and courage which can serve us well in the troubled world of today.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards St., Salt Lake City
UTAH'S PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS
BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS!
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
relief society
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No, 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled, with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
"A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY"
A special centennial commemorative book will soon be issued by the General Board. This valuable book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to the close of its first century, March 17, 1942. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, "A Centenary of Relief Society," and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible?fifty cents per copy, postpaid?whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from the General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Cover
Garfield Beach?Bathing Resort of Pioneers
T. J. Howells, M. D.
At the extreme south end of the Great Salt Lake, less than fifteen miles west of the limits of Salt Lake City, was located the prominent Pioneer bathing resort known as "Garfield." It was the outgrowth and culmination of several similar resorts established earlier in that region, and in its day it eclipsed all others as a pleasure resort for Mormon Pioneers and their families. A narrow-gauge railroad connected this establishment with Salt Lake City, and in the 1880's and 1890's the resort was a thriving affair. Excursions were conducted from all over the state during the summer to this then famous resort where the bathing and the beach had become the most popular in the intermountain region. It was with difficulty, especially on holidays, that this inadequate railroad was able to transport the people to and from the resort. Children looked forward for weeks to this annual trip and the bath in the Great Salt Lake. Mothers crowded good things to eat into large baskets, and trips to 'Garfield' were events never to be forgotten. Our mothers loved it?it was the scene of their romances, the meeting place of their friends and a place for the reunion of families. The stimulating bath in the salt water, the clear air, the soft summer breezes, music, and dancing made this resort a magic word in the homes of the people. To the children it was a fairyland of amusement, crowded with good things to eat, cold soda water, wading, and loads of fun. Today, to those who remember that once famous beach resort, the word "Garfield" conjures up in our memories delightful times, wholesome entertainment, and golden sunsets reflected in the clear waters of the beautiful lake.
Note: The picture on the cover, by Dr. T. J. Howells, indicates all that is left of the bathing resort of "Garfield," now some distance from the shore. Across the lake, in the background, is Antelope Island, interestingly and historically tied to the early history of the Mormon Church. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. The frontispiece photograph, 'Relief Society Centennial Tree," is by Irvin T. Nelson, Church landscape architect.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 AUGUST, 1942 No. 8
Vol. 29 AUGUST, 1942 No. 8
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Cover Garfield Beach T. J. Howells, M. D. 515
The Tree Speaks Back of Frontispiece Maurine Jacobs 517
Relief Society Centennial Tree Temple Square Frontispiece 518
Under Divine Charter Leo J. Muir 519
The Social Effects of Alcohol Dr. Harold T Christensen 524
'How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime'? Mark K. Allen 528
A Children's Charter in Wartime 532
In Retrospect Chapter VIII President Amy Brown Lyman 538
Three Styles or Textures of Musical Composition Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen 570
FICTION
Bend in the River Iris Schow 533
Whither Thou Goest LaRene King Bleecker 557
GENERAL FEATURES
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 549
Editorial:
''Let Your Light So Shine'' Belle S. Spafford 550
Ethel B. Andrew Resigns 551
Notes to the Field 552
Announcements of Contests 552
Salvage for Victory 553
Information for ''Relief Society Magazine' Representatives 555
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 563
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony ''Articles of Faith,'' By James E. Talmage, Chapter 10 574
Visiting Teachers Reverence as an Expression of Faith 577
Work-and-Business Peace vs. Wartime Habits 578
Literature The Background of the Bible 580
Social Science Our Heritage 584
General Presidents of Relief Society Eliza R. Snow 588
POETRY
The Tree Speaks Maurine Jacobs 517
Trees Elsie E. Barrett 548
Give us This Day Vesta P. Crawford 573
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 55,500

The Tree Sneaks Maurine Jacobs Skybroom, you call me, Watching my tall branches Rake the blue and summon clouds To bring you sustenance and shade. My roots grope deep to bind the soil; My veins distend to gather rain, Elixir of life for you and yours; My branches spread to give surcease And bring you hope through beauty. In my wise passing, Houses take their shape; Books, their form; Stoves, their fuel. In my needless death, Floods sweep the land; Desolation reigns; And man is cursed. I am both beauty and necessity. I am earth-healer, water-saver. I am earth's skybroom. I am content. Vol. 29, No. 8 MAGAZINE August, 194