[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: General Presidents of Snow]

They were patterned after the old English universities.) What did the Mormon pioneers do to develop education in early days? General Presidents Of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.) LESSON 2
Eliza R. Snow Second Relief Society President (Tuesday, November 24, 1942) ROM the year 1866 until her death in 1887, Eliza R.
Snow was the leading woman among the Latter-day Saints. She presided over all the Relief Societies and, for a time, over all the Mormon women's organizations. She was particularly well fitted for such responsibility because of the blending in her nature of spiritual, intellectual, and practical gifts. The pioneer women who looked to her for guidance thirsted for the spiritual, hungered for the intellectual?"the glory of God"?and would have perished without knowledge of the practical.
While still young, Eliza Snow manifested her versatility. She won first prize for a poem in Godey's Lady's Book, a famous fashion and literary magazine. But she had also won first prize at the county fair for the best home manufactured leghorn straw for hats.
When her younger brother, Lorenzo, needed his "'freedom suit," she made it, and also his military uniform, which he would entrust to no other hands and which turned out to be "magnificent." Eliza Roxey Snow was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, Massachusetts, the second of seven children of Oliver and Rosetta L. Pettibone Snow. The family migrated and became pioneer settlers of Mantua, Ohio. Miss Snow writes of her parents that "their house was a resort Page 588 for the good and intelligent of all denominations, and their hospitality was proverbial"; that "their integrity was unimpeachable"; that "they carefully trained their children to habits of industry, economy, and strict morality, and extended to them the best facilities for scholastic education that the country afforded." In 1829, Eliza Snow heard vague rumors of a new prophet with a new religion.
Later she heard two witnesses of the Book of Mormon testify that they had seen a holy angel. Her soul was thrilled, but she took time to deliberate. In 1835, the Spirit bore witness to her, and she was baptized. In Mantua, Eliza Snow's society was sought by people of culture and intellect. She had won recognition for a rousing article, "The Fall of Missolonghi," which event had occurred in the war for Greece's independence from Turkey, and which had stirred another poet, Lord Byron, to take up arms as well as write.
Afterward she was requested to write a requiem for ex-Presidents Adams and Jefferson, who died on the same Fourth of July.
Always afire with patriotism, she was widely acclaimed for this effort. A literary career seemed assured; yet she forsook all worldly ambitions and moved to Kirtland, where she was happy in her new religion.
This period was a high point in LESSON DEPARTMENT Church history.
Spiritual gifts were poured out upon the people.
They spoke in tongues and interpreted. The lame, the blind, the deaf, and dumb were miraculously healed. A great peace and rejoicing filled the hearts of the Saints. Miss Snow contributed generously to the Kirtland Temple. She taught a select school for young ladies, and the following year taught the family school of the Prophet Joseph. She was impressed with the daily life of this great man. She writes:. "His lips ever flowed with instruction and kindness.... His expansive mind solved the mystic problem of man's destiny; he was in possession of the keys that unlocked the past and the future, with its succession of eternities. Yet in his devotion he was as humble as a little child.
Three times a day he had family worship." (Tullidge, Women of Mormondom.) When the Saints left Ohio for Missouri, the Snows settled in Adam-Ondi-Ahman, paying in full for two homesteads including the farm crops. The old settlers seemed friendly, but actually had plotted to sell to the Mormons, then drive them off and repossess their property.
Millers refused to grind the wheat of Mormons, so the Saints perforated tin pails and stove pipes for graters and made corn meal.
This they moistened with boiled pumpkin, adding milk or butter and baking the palatable mixture. When Governor Boggs ordered the Saints to leave Missouri, the former owner of the Snow property walked in and impudently inquired how soon they would be out of the house. In 1839
Eliza Snow reached Nauvoo. She was one of the group who planned a Ladies' Society. She wrote 589 the by-laws which the women showed to the Prophet who stated that he himself had been planning an organization for women of the Church under the Priesthood only of far greater scope than the one they contemplated. When he organized. The Relief Society in 1842
Sister Snow was its first secretary. She took careful lucid minutes that are of great historical importance today.
Sometimes she quoted President Joseph Smith verbatim; and other times she wrote a summary. She wrote many poems and hymns at this time among them was the inspired "Oh My Father!" which she entitled "Invocation." In-flight from Nauvoo Eliza R.
Snow kept a careful record of the journey. In spite of physical suffering, such as that resulting from painfully frosted feet, she did her part in the necessary everyday work of camp life, joining the women in washing and making pot-pie of squirrel, quail, rabbit and prairie-chicken procured by the hunters of the company.
Unacquainted with animals, she nevertheless drove an ox team. She also nursed a sick companion and son and prepared their meals.
Upon arriving at Winter Quarters, she collapsed.
Crossing the plains, she again kept an invaluable record. She mentions the Nauvoo Temple bell which accompanied them?how it awakened the herdsman, called the Saints to prayer, and was used for signaling. (The  .) In Utah, there was no formal Relief Society organization until early 590 in the 1850's. In 1866, Eliza R.
Snow was asked by President Brigham Young to help the bishops organize Relief Societies in all the wards and settlements. From 1866 to 1880, she stood at the head of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association as well as Relief Society. Under Sister Snow's presidency were begun these women's enterprises: the establishment of the Deseret Hospital, the publication of the Woman's Exponent, silk worm culture, manufacturing of silk, operation of a woman's exchange store, storing of grain, and the building of Relief Society halls.
Other able women aided her. Sister Snow presided over the women's work in the temples. She was active in the Polysophical Society founded in 1854 to encourage culture and refinement in the desert. In 1872, she accompanied Brother George A. Smith, her brother Lorenzo and other distinguished persons on a trip to Palestine, to dedicate the land to the return of the Jews.
This experience filled each visitor with a sacred happiness, and Eliza R.
Snow wrote glowing accounts of it. The party also visited in Europe and were entertained by prominent people, including nobility. Eliza Snow was a neat, precise person, always a lady, by nature and  appearance an aristocrat. Yet she possessed a deep sense of democracy and humility, and a stern sense of justice and righteousness. She particularly hated dishonesty, deceit, and hypocrisy.
People respected her and came to her with their burdens, -which she lifted. She discovered talent and encouraged it. She was a fluent speaker.
Verily her heart was a vessel which caught and held the Holy Spirit, whose influence was transmitted to her hearers not only from her lips but from her dark eyes which glowed as she spoke, so that people never forgot them.; She died December 5, 1887, honored and mourned by the entire Church. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 111 et passim.
Centenary of Relief Society, p..10 et passim. Relief Society Magazine, April 1916, pp. 183-190; March 1942, pp. 166-167.
Poems by Eliza R. Snow: Our Legacy, Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, pp. 65-70; Relief Society Magazine, March 1916, p. 121; April 1916, pp. 181, 190; December 1917, pp. 663-665; January 1925, p. 1; March 1942, p. 149.
Pictures of Eliza R. Snow: Relief Society Handbook, p. 108; Our Legacy, Relief.. Society.. Centennial.. Anthology.. Of Verse, Facing page; Centenary of Relief Society, p. 10 et passim; Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, p. 46; April 1916, p. 182; January 1935, p. 17; March 1938, p..150; March 1942, p. 167. Let love be without dissimulation.
Abhor that which is evil; Cleave to that which is good." ?Romans 12:9 Ww LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Telephone 821
Los Angeles, California 6003
Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
Salt Lake City, Utah 260
East South Temple Dial 4-9126 THEY'RE WELL SERVICED MANY ELECTRICAL DEALERS ARE EQUIPPED TO REPAIR AND ADJUST APPLIANCES AT REASONABLE COST...