[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers]

Visiting Teachers' Messages To The Home
Lesson 2 Reverence as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 3, 1942)
TO be truly reverent, one must respect, love, and obey God with a deep feeling of awe and wonder. Reverence implies that we, the created, are in the presence of Him, the Creator.
When we stand on the ocean beach and look out over the vast body of water, we are filled with awe. Similarly when we consider the beauties of nature in rock and plant or when we are in contact with the great mystery of life all around us, we marvel. What wonder we feel as we view the beautiful flowers and fruit, and contemplate that a tiny seed contained within it the power to draw from the soil sufficient nourishment of the right kind to develop into a shrub of different colors bearing seeds which have in them exactly that same force and pattern. Our bodies, too, are marvels of construction to us. What we know of the wonders of creation should increase our reverence for the unknown.
Reverence for God and for all that he has brought into being is one of the essentials of a fine character. There can be no doubt about that.
There have always been special places set apart for worship, places that have been dedicated to the Lord. Usually they are called "Houses of the Lord." These houses should be held sacred and holy so His spirit will abide there. In the early days of the Church He commanded the Saints to "build a house unto me," and the answer was the Kirtland Temple. In the case of the ancient Israelites, first the Ark was built and then a temple; in the case of the Nephites and of the Latter-day Saints, the temple again. They are special houses of the Lord. But our meetinghouses, or chapels, are also dedicated to God as special places of worship. They are therefore His houses, too, for in them we learn of His greatness and love. They are sacred for another reason. In the principal meeting held there, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered?the most sacred ordinance known to us, for it is symbolical of His suffering and death for us.
There are many ways in which reverence may be expressed. Some of these are by quiet serenity, profound awe, silence, a song, or instrumental music. But beneath the outward expression of true reverence is the spirit of reverence, and that is what is most important, after all.
Discussion
1. What blessing may one obtain by attending religious services in a reverent spirit?
2. What physical conditions in our churches contribute to this spirit?
3. Why does faith in God lead to reverence for Him and His creations?
4. How does the example of older people affect children in their reverence for sacred places?