[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Social Effects of Christensen]

The anti-social effects of drink are many and far-reaching. Our task as Latter-day Saints, is to discover the truth in these things, and then to live by the light of this truth. Intelligent living is righteous living. We can do much to alleviate, if not eliminate, the problem of alcohol by informing ourselves of its consequences and by holding fast to the spiritual values of Mormonism for motivation.
How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime?
Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School No. IV
THE experience of England teaches us that children bear the shock of actual war at least as well as their parents. But in addition to this, perhaps the greater part of the war burden will fall on our children. A great share of the tremendous war debt will be their responsibility. The task of reconstructing a world broken by war will largely be theirs. Many of our homes will be broken by war casualties, and many children will be forced to "go it alone," like their great-grandparents did in pioneer days. Certainly no generation of children has faced a greater challenge than that faced by the generation of today. Children of today will have the task of making a world fit for democratic living. They will have the great challenge of constructing a world for their children which will be secure against aggression a better world than the world of today.
One great source of hardship for us adults during this war springs from our failure to learn that freedom cannot survive without a sense of responsibility to the group, and failure to discipline ourselves to place the public good ahead of personal convenience. Not until now that the enemy approaches our shores and for many, not even now have we begun to realize that, as Marshal Petain said of the French people after their fall, "We have been having too good a time." Parents, then, have two great challenges today: first, to save for our children the world from military bondage; and, second, to teach our children habits, attitudes, and ideals which will adequately qualify them to rebuild and live in a democratic society.
This is not an academic question of concern only to our schools, but is primarily a task for our homes. Training for freedom and responsibility begins in the cradle. It commences by teaching the child all through his growing period to do for himself everything he is able to do, and by teaching him to forget at proper times his immediate personal benefit for the good of society. This training is the forerunner of that virtue most urgently needed today; namely, willingness to give to one's government at least as much as one takes. The recent period of governmental assistance has brought to light how common is the desire to take from government benefits grossly disproportionate to what one contributes.
WITH the great challenge in mind that we must prepare our children for democratic living in the postwar world, let us consider some parental problems of the present. First of all, let us look at the mental health of the children of England. Many anxious mothers perhaps imagine that bombings, deprivation, and the general terror of war would likely make children very nervous, if not driving many to actual mental breakdown. Fortunately, there is little foundation for this fear. In England, children have lived through ruthless bombings with surprisingly few cases of actual war neuroses. In a broadcast from England last January, the following statement was made:
"Our experience ought to encourage them. The school medical officer of the county of London reported last week that there was no evidence among London children of nervous disorder or shock caused by air raids. They stood it as well as adults, maybe better. Nor did living in air-raid shelters do them any harm. We had no epidemic of disease.
"The bad effects seemed to be first on their education. When hundreds of thousands of the children were evacuated to the country, there was a shortage of school buildings. The schools were taken over for civilian defense, and a good many children got little or no education. When the problem was fully understood it was put right, and by last June nearly 98 per cent of British children were once more getting full-time schooling.
"The second bad effect was an increase in what is called juvenile delinquency, but what the ordinary parent calls 'naughtiness.' A lot more children got into trouble with the police in the first year of the war than in the last.... The causes were chiefly the breaking up of the home life and home discipline. Fathers were in the army and mothers were doing war work. Children had too much time on their hands. Not being able to go to school, the ease of stealing from bombed buildings and the excitement of the war in general helped them to misbehave."
(Quoted from an excellent bulletin of U. S. Children's Bureau, "To Parents in Wartime," page 18.)
One of the most serious effects on the English children grew out of their mass evacuation without adequate social placement services. Sometimes their own homes were destroyed or threatened and large numbers of children were moved in great haste to centers where a mother's intimate contact was lost. This uprooting of the normal affectional bonds between members of the family is the most serious mental hazard of war.
EVERY child requires three fundamental kinds of experience to maintain mental health: First, is the feeling of emotional security the feeling of being wanted, of belonging to someone who cares. Second, is the feeling that one has "a place in the sun," through his achievement a feeling of the importance of his status in society. Even small children do "cute tricks" of the "watch me" variety to give them a feeling that they are somebody. Adolescents strive earnestly, often ridiculously, to assume grownup ways. A strong desire to appear to have arrived at adult status drives many youths to use tobacco, drive automobiles recklessly, and to hide all childish emotions, however strongly they may feel them. Third, children require experiences that lead to a feeling of mastery over obstacles. The desire for mastery may be effectively utilized in the preparation of our young people for future democratic living.
Mental health in childhood can be promoted through the satisfaction of the above three needs. Consider first the need for affectional bonds. When homes are broken by fathers or brothers leaving with the armed forces, substitutes should be made whenever possible. Other adult males uncles, cousins, grandfathers should be encouraged to take an interest in the children. Church and other community leaders may play a part here. The Scout master and Sunday school teacher have a special opportunity. Mothers who become occupied with war work whether full-time defense work or part-time community service should devote themselves more actively than usual during the hours they can spend with the children to preserve in them a sense of emotional security. Since nothing contributes more to juvenile delinquency than conditions which make a child feel unwanted or that he does not "belong" in the hearts of others, all mothers should carefully weigh the relative value to the national welfare of doing defense work compared with the contribution they might make as mothers. We are trying to win this war for the future generation but let us not lose for democracy this future generation in our zeal to win the war.
Second, the child's need for a feeling of status or importance can be effectively utilized during the war effort. Many civilian assignments can, and should, be given to children. Special titles such as "Junior Aircraft Spotter" or "Member Junior Red Cross" often mean a great deal to the child. Cooperative projects in which children are organized for war work help to protect the child against anxiety because he can share his fears with others his age, and he can make some concrete contributions to the war effort, thereby dispelling his fears. The following excerpt from a report on last year's war work of children in Toronto, Canada, indicates the scope of projects children can engage in with great personal satisfaction as well as substantial value to the war effort:
"The school children sold war savings stamps and certificates of a total value of $333,641.08, and, in addition, they raised $44,000 for 38 war-work agencies. They collected 23,000 books and 143,000 magazines, and sent this reading material to troops in training. They made thousands of articles, including socks, mufflers, and gloves for the soldiers, sailors, and airmen. They wrote more than 8,000 letters to ex-pupils now in active service. They collected aluminum pots and pans, lead foil, scrap metal, and leather in large quantities for war industries. One school cancelled a quantity of war savings stamps and burned a $50 bond as a contribution to the war effort. Many schools provided taggers for the Red Cross, Navy League, and Greek Refugee tag days."
(Clarence M. Hincks, The Child in War Time, page 33, published by National Committee for Mental Hygiene, Canada.)
The child's third great need the need for a sense of mastery or achievement can be met very well through such civilian war activities as those mentioned above. Children may get considerable enjoyment out of learning new skills in making war articles (knitted goods, repaired clothing, and toys for evacuated children), and in administering first aid; for older children, an acquiring of fundamental knowledge and skill in radio operation, weather forecasting, and plane construction and maintenance brings keen enjoyment. War activities in which the family or social group can participate are especially valuable. The judicious parent can find some interesting activity for almost every age group. Already many of our children are engaged in some of the following activities: defense bond and stamp campaigns, relief fund drives, salvage campaigns, sewing and knitting projects, farm labor replacements (beet thinning, fruit gathering, weeding, and heavier farm work for the older boys), fruit canning, fruit conservation, and fuel gathering. The importance of this work will increase as the man-power problem increases.
IN addition to provision for the satisfaction of the child's needs for a feeling of emotional security through affection, a sense of status through appropriate assignments in war work, and a sense of achievement through acquiring useful skills and through other worth-while accomplishments, a parent should consider also the question of how to discuss the war with children. Some mothers would say, "Oh, it is too horrible. Why worry the child with something he can do nothing about?" These mothers may not permit the child to hear radio reports nor to read nor discuss the war news. Plausible as this practice may seem, child-guidance experts are fairly well agreed that children should be frankly told the realities of the war. To withhold war information is fraught with the same dangers as withholding sex information. The important consideration in either case is that attempts to "hush" the child's questions simply whet his curiosity, and there are always other children who will misinform the child whose mother refuses to inform him. One reason parents would withhold information is that they imagine the child will view events with a full realization of their seriousness, which they often do not. On the other hand, it is sometimes thought that the child will fear quite remote dangers more than he should. What the parent should do is to fit the news to the child's perspective. Reports of new invasions in Europe often meant to the child that the enemy was now on the next street about ready to invade his own playground and bedroom. In such cases, maps and careful explanations of distances and time of travel involved should be given. On the other hand, should actual danger approach, children should be realistically prepared for the worst. Children can bear a great deal if they are wisely prepared for it. They should be as well prepared as possible to help themselves and others should emergencies arise. This teaching should not be done with alarm nor in an atmosphere of panic and desperation, but in the cool, sensible manner in which one would prepare for any difficult undertaking. Then, it is even likely to be fun for the children.
Children respond more to their parents' attitudes than they do to the dangers themselves. A mother's anxiety untempered with reason will engender more fear in children than many real dangers. Children will usually stand up under trying situations as well, and only as well, as their parents. Children of all ages may be inclined to feel ashamed of their fears. They often taunt one another about their anxieties to the point that a child may learn to conceal his emotion. Fear may be both normal and serviceable a preparation of the body and mind to meet dangerous emergencies. Children's fears should be respected, and the child should be encouraged to discuss them in order that the parent may be guided in helping him to base his fears on truth and in teaching him how best to meet real emergencies. Don't ridicule a child's fears, but give him information that will make his fears serviceable rather than a hindrance to him. The first condition, of course, in the wise management of children's fears is the proper management of our own. This means intelligently facing realities.
A CHILDREN'S CHARTER IN WARTIME
Report Adopted March 18, 1942, by the Children's Bureau Commission on Children in Wartime
WE are in total war against the aggressor nations. We are fighting again for human freedom and especially for the future of our children in a free world.
CHILDREN must be safeguarded and they can be safeguarded in the midst of this total war so that they can live and share in that future. They must be nourished, sheltered, and protected even in the stress of war production so that they will be strong to carry forward a just and lasting peace.
OUR American Republics sprang from a sturdy yearning for tolerance, independence, and self-government. The American home has emerged from the search for freedom. Within it the child lives and learns through his own efforts the meaning and responsibilities of freedom.
WE have faith in the children of the New World faith that if our generation does its part now, they will renew the living principles in our common life, and make the most of them. Both as a wartime responsibility and as stepping-stones to our future and to theirs we call upon citizens, young and old, to join together to 
I. Guard children from injury in danger zones.
II. Protect children from neglect, exploitation, and undue strain in defense areas.
III. Strengthen the home life of children whose parents are mobilized for war or war production.
IV. Conserve, equip, and free children of every race and creed to take their part in democracy.
 Reprinted from The Child Monthly News Summary Vol. 6, No. 10 (April 1942), U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C.
Bend in the River
Iris Schow
WITH mathematical precision, Natalie Gibson eased her smart navy and red hat to a perky angle, bestowing on her reflection a fleeting yet critical inspection. "I really must dash, Mom," she asserted. "No time to talk about whether or not it's for my 'best good' to join your Relief Society." Snatching her purse and gloves, she terminated Mrs. Reed's protest with a quick kiss and almost ran out to her roadster.
Bessie Reed moved to the window, struggling to shape into a smile the lines of disappointment on her face as she watched her graceful blond daughter drive away. It hurt, being put off, left in the middle of what she wanted to say. She knew that she, in turn, was being watched by her own aged, almost helpless mother, who sat in a comfortable chair near the window.
"Another party!" said Grandma Fuller. "Natalie goes to so many, you'd think she couldn't help but tire of them."
"She isn't really the frivolous type, Mother," said Bessie mildly. She sat down and picked up her handwork mechanically. "It's just that Natalie doesn't know what to do with herself since Joel died. This continual gadding is her way of finding something to occupy her mind. She doesn't get any real satisfaction from it."
"I know. Haven't I been through the same thing myself?" Grandma Fuller leaned forward a little, speaking earnestly. "Why, when your father died, I felt lost, Bessie. Losing your husband changes the whole pattern of your existence. It's as if the river of your life had to make a great bend and strike a new course through strange woods and thickets. You feel unable to realize where you are going. But, of course, I had you six children to bring up and the farm to keep running. There wasn't much time to grieve, with a dozen tasks always staring me in the face."
"Sometimes I almost wish Natalie had to work to support herself and Ruth," said Bessie anxiously. "With her knowledge of home economics, she could fill a position with the Farm Bureau extension service, but Joel's interest in the Gibson Woolen Mills gives her an ample income. I had thought that if I could only get her to come with me to Relief Society, she might feel that she could make a real contribution to our studies, especially in nutrition. That would give her a more wholesome social interest. But you've seen the response I get...."
"She isn't unkind about it, just indifferent," pointed out Grandma Fuller.
"But indifference is so hard to overcome," Bessie stated wearily. "And now there's the Relief Society festival a big event to honor the beginning of the Society's second hundred years of service. We've worked and planned for this for weeks. All the sisters are to bring their daughters. When I think of sitting up there as secretary, without Natalie along, sometimes I feel that I just can't go through it...." Bessie's voice broke. She rose hastily, clinching her jaws together in a frantic effort to keep back the tears. "Well," she stated, attempting nonchalance, "I'll have to scat for the kitchen, or there'll be no dinner."
Left alone, Grandma Fuller sat very still, her wrinkled chin drooping toward her chest. She understood what her daughter had left unsaid; pride kept Bessie from urging Natalie to come to the Relief Society party "for the sake of mother." She respected that pride. If only Natalie could understand what membership in the Relief Society has meant to the women of our family since pioneer days, thought Grandma Fuller. If I could help her see how that glorious sisterhood has sustained us in our sorrows and prompted us to develop our best qualities in order to help others.... Once she realized these things, she would want to join.
Grandma Fuller's intent brown eyes did not see the pleasant residential street outside the window; she was looking back, down the avenues of memory. She thought of her mother, pregnant, jolting across the prairies toward Zion, forgetful of personal discomfort in her efforts to aid her "sisters in the Gospel." She remembered her own young womanhood, her discouraging life on the farm. Surely she would have given up to her longing for town life, but for the heartening example of the handful of Relief Society members out there. And Bessie, what would have sustained her back in 1917, when her sons had gone to war, if she had not shared in the faith and work of the sisterhood? Even now, it was largely because of the Relief Society activities that Bessie was so remarkably well-informed. Grandma Fuller's chin rose purposefully. The responsibility belonged to her as well as to Bessie. She would do her best to help Natalie understand.
NEXT morning while Natalie tidied the living room, Grandma Fuller related memories of the past. "I wasn't born till '56, two months after Pa and Ma reached the Valley," she said, "but my sister Minnie was quite a big girl when they crossed the plains. She used to tell me how one night when she was left alone in the wagon with Joey and Rube Pa and Ma were both tending the sick she woke up to find Ma peeling off the wagon cover in a regular downpour of rain. Ma needed it to shelter a sister who was having a baby their covered wagon was leaking badly. Well, with what help Minnie could give her, Ma took that cover down, in her condition, mind you. The children huddled together, while Minnie carried out Ma's directions to protect them as best she could with quilts and coats spread over boxes and the wagon seat. The sisters saved the mother and babe that night, with the help of the Lord, and Ma's children were none the worse for their exposure to the storm. That's what Relief Society meant then."
"Life must have been very hard in those days," murmured Natalie, the tenderness which had once characterized her expression crossing her face for an instant.
Inwardly welcoming this good sign, Grandma Fuller continued telling incidents which illustrated her own and Bessie's reasons for their devotion to the Relief Society. "And so for three generations," she concluded, "the women of our family have done whatever the Relief Society has requested. We have never overlooked an hour's service or missed giving a bushel of wheat that's been asked of us. And we've been well repaid, too, in increased usefulness and information and happiness. That's why I hope you won't pass up the Relief Society, Natalie. I feel sure it can mean as much to you as it has to any of us."
"Sweet old Grandma," said Natalie, giving her grandmother's shoulders an affectionate little hug, "sooner or later I'll join your Relief Society, of course. But there's no special rush. I have plenty of friends to keep my time occupied, and nobody here in the ward really needs my help. It isn't as if we were crossing the plains or settling the state. If real want and hardship should come, you know I'd do whatever I could to help. So don't trouble your pretty head about me." Natalie's blue eyes sparkled as she gave Grandma Fuller a twinkling smile that was disarmingly affectionate.
Grandma Fuller had not given up. "But, Natalie, on Tuesday there's the festival in honor of the beginning of Relief Society's second one hundred years. They're going to act out an original play. The first act is to show how the Society was organized back in Nauvoo in 1842. The other acts will show how the various lesson departments are conducted. There's to be an act about literature, and one about the work-and-business department they study about nutrition in this department and...."
"Yes, Grandma, Mom was telling us about it at the table the other day." Natalie's manner was still playfully affectionate.