[column 2]
Barney nearly worked herself to death,
and others too, to establish straw braiding
some years ago. There are some beautiful
flowers at the store made by our sisters,
come and see them. I would like to see
the store sustained. We have a market for
silk and cocoons if we need to sell, but I
prefer keeping the silk at home. The
Japanese will make reels, and teach the
reeling if any one wishes to learn it. Sister
Jennings has a class of about eighteen or
twenty girls teaching them to sew to enable
them to become self-supporting. I am
greatly in favor of the excursion to Saltair
in the interest of home industry. I would
like to hear from Sister Jennings.”
	Sister Jennings said, “last winter I saw
the need of helping the young girls. There
are many who can’t get employment, they
can’t sew, and are unable to take care of
themselves. I concluded to organize a
class and give all who would like to attend
the opportunity of learning to sew, we are
getting along quite satisfactorily I
went to the Co-op store and asked them if
they would stop sending for things we
could make at home, they promised to take
all we could lay down at the price they buy.
I am interested in the Womans Co-op, tell
members of my family to buy there, am
satisfied myself, but I have to trade where
my investments are.”
	Sister Horne made closing remarks. We
don’t want to pull against each other, but
branch out in all things. We had hoped to
own a large place before this and be able to
have more employed to help themselves,
have done the best we could under the cir-
cumstances, we may have made mistakes,
have always been desirous to please our
patrons, we will work for the good of Zion,
in temporal as well as spiritual things, the
existing troubles may lull for a while. We
had hoped to have a bureau of information
have failed thus far, we had lofty aims when
we started out; without support we could
not carry them through.
	Sister Taylor said a few words in praise
of Sister Horne and her assistants. "If you
knew how these women have struggled to
keep the store alive, men would have given
up long ago, I don’t think it would have
been possible for them to have kept their
heads above water. Great credit is due to
these sisters, and its our duty to sustain
them.’’ Donations were received and
several shares were taken. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Benediction Sister
E. Pixton. 		V. R. YOUNG, Sec.


