LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, July
14th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “When
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer
by Sister Brown. Continued singing,
“Satans Empire,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne said “although few in number today,
we are promised the spirit of the Lord if
we meet in his name; we are entering upon
hard times, every kind of distress will be
poured out upon the inhabitants of the
earth, we should cultivate the spirit of love
and sympathy, be charitable to all, we can 
be kind to our enemies. There are many
allurements for the youth of Zion. Mothers
should be diligent in teaching the princi-
ples of the Gospel to their children while
they are young, in contemplating on the
signs of the times, we can see the hand of
the Lord in the troubles of today. Many 
of our friends are detained from home on
account of these strikes. Poor men show
they are envious of the rich, by their des-
truction of property. As saints of God we
should be awake to our duties. I am sorry
more of the sisters are not obeying the
counsel of Brother Young and laying up
wheat, also of sustaining home-industry.
If we had obeyed his wise counsel, we
should have been wearing our own manu-
factured clothing today, and the blessings
of the Lord would have been poured out
upon us; forty years ago my husband was
sent south to see if cotton could be raised;
how little progress we have made in all
this time in manufacturing our own wear-
ing apparel. Brother Brigham said if we
did not improve we would fall when Baby-
lon falls. He used to say, “It takes a
wise man to build up, but any one can pull
down.” Brigham Young did a wonderful
work in bringing the people to these valleys,
Brother Taylor followed him. Now
Brother Woodruff is doing a great work.
He is one of the most humble and faithful,
for his meekness, the Lord has greatly
blessed him in giving inspiration in regard
to Temple work. We have been asleep, 
not knowing that trials are so near. Let
us awake. I would do anything in my

