A SUGGESTIVE BOOK.

	A VERY interesting little work by
Charlotte Carmichael Stopes, entitled “Brit-
isn Free-women—their Historical Privilege”
has been recently issued.
	This book is the' result of careful and
comprehensive investigation of constitu-
tional History, Statutes, Rolls of Parlia-
ment, State papers, and works on Law,
History, and Archaeology, both printed and
in manuscript of all sorts, ancient and
modern, the facts gathered and classified,
summing themselves under the Ethnologi-
cal head, the Philogical, the Legal, the
Historical, and the Biblical.
	In her preface the author says in regard


to first: the Ethnological head.— “The
racial characteristics of our ancestors. They
reverenced women.
	Second. All old statutes are couched in
general terms. Through, a deficiency in
the English language, the word ‘man’ is a
common term, including women as well as
man, even by statute.
	Third. The Legal.—All old laws are
also couched in general terms. Sir Edward
Coke, was only a fellow mortal, liable to
error. The late Laureate speaks of the
liberties of men as widening down from
precedent to precedent. We find that the
liberties of women have, on the other hand,
been narrowed down from precedent to
precedent.”
	She finds that women have been Queen’s
Consort; Queen’s Regnant, and Queen’s
Regent. That as noble women they have
received homage, held courts baron, and
held by military service. That they could
be knights; could and did inherit public
offices; could be high sheriff, high constable,
high steward, high chamberlain and gover-
nor of royal castles. That as peeresses
they could be, and were summoned to Par-
liament in person or by proxy.
	That as county women they could be
Freeholders: could elect Knights of the
Shire; could elect members of private
boroughs, etc.
	As Free women they could be members
of Guilds; have Guilds of their own, and
did. In the reign of Edward the Fourth
there is a petition recorded in the Parlimen-
tary rolls, from the “Silkewomen” and
“Throwsters” of the “crafte” of “Silke-
work,” 1,000 in number, praying for leave
to combine, and asking for “protection,’’
against the introduction of foreign manu-
factured silk goods. They were also free
of the city of London, as were all who
paid taxes, “Scot and Lot;” and free of
other boroughs. They could be members
of corporations, and could vote for members
of Parliament.
	The constructions put upon law, and the
decisions of Sir Edward Coke first seriously
assailed the liberties of women, and these
have been followed by the increasing
power, as tests of human value, of money
and military service.
	The author sees now the “turn of the
tide,” and sums up in her closing pages
the work that has been, and is being ac-
complished.  It is, however, still true that
whatever it is for women to gain it is also
necessary to vigilantly hold and keep.
