[Column 2]
London about Anna’s brother and let her
know as soon as he possibly could, what
Clair’s future was likely to be. The dull
days dragged on and at last a letter came
saying the family had arrived safely at
Walton Hall, that Mr. Harrison and Clair
Hilliard were in the East Indies at last
accounts, and would probably return shortly.
That was all the message but Mrs. Bland
felt better now, lighter-hearted knowing
the children had reached their home, and
perhaps for the other news of far away
friends.
	One day not long after the letter from
England news was circulated that a ship
was coming in, and Mrs. Bland who sel-
dom went out persuaded by her little son,
who had never seen a ship land, went down
to the shore.
	Ere long the passengers were landed and
Mrs. Bland turned her steps homeward but
she was soon followed, a quick step close
behind her caused her to look and there
seemingly scarcely a day older than when
she had last seen him was Robert Harrison.
He looked at her a moment and his first
words were “Where is my cousin Anna?’’
Explanation followed as they kept on their
way, and soon all was told amidst tears and
sobs. Strange to say Mrs. Bland did not
recall her dream though it had been so
literally fulfilled, until after she had retired
to her own apartments for the night. Mr.
Harrison had left her late and gone to the
public house where his luggage had been
taken, and she scarcely realized that she
was not even then dreaming, except that
repeating so many sad things (for Mr.
Harrison insisted upon knowing all) that
had transpired and had made the past much
more vivid, than for many a day, and she
had to struggle with herself to quiet her
nerves and regain composure after Mr.
Harrison had said good night. Conway
had been fast asleep for hours, the servants
were in bed all except her faithful Josiah
who always kept guard. Her thoughts had
wandered far back to her earlier days at the
Castle, and the many strange incidents that
had transpired there, and how seemingly
presentiments had come to her, and now the
fulfillment of her strange dream; and her
wondering of the future what it would be.
That she loved Mr. Harrison in the best
and truest way her heart demonstrated for
she felt now, he was linked in her life, and
Anna she thought how happy it would have
made her to know that the one relative of
her mother’s was to be dear cousin Jane’s
protector from henceforth, for Mr. Harrison
assured himself as he left Mrs. Bland’s
door that first night, that he should stand
by her and Anna’s children while he lived.
From Mrs. Bland’s account of Maitland he
had concluded he would not take more than
a general interest in the children, and past
experiences of Lady Walton, had not given
him a very high estimate of her ability to
successfully train and rear the children now
committed to her care.
	The love he had felt for Jane Conway
ere he knew of her engagement to Dr.
Bland had been kept in abeyance while she
was a wife, but when he met her as a
widow his heart went out to her and all the
pent-up emotions seemed to redouble their
force, and he determined to offer his hand
and heart; she had spoken to him of young
Barrington, and he had recognized from
what she said, his own nephew, and had
been interested at once; he would find this
young minister and make assurance doubly
sure that he was Sidney Barrington the


[Column 1]
only child of his only sister, who had died
when her boy was born, and the father soon
after. Mr. Harrison had asked Mrs. Bland
several direct questions concerning the
young minister, but she had not in the
least suspected the relationship, nor had it
even struck her as a coincidence that his
uncle was eccentric or away in foreign parts
which Mr. Barrington had said to her
that night when alluding to his loneliness.
	The following morning Mr. Harrison
went direct to John Austin’s humble home,
and inquired for Mr. Barrington. On see-
ing him he was so struck by his resem-
blance to his mother, that he could scarcely
speak, Barrington observing his emotion
and noticing him to be a stranger by his
dress and manner intuitively felt that he
must be his uncle, and the prophetic words
of Mrs. Bland came instantly to his mind,
"he will come and look you up in this new
land.”
	When Mr. Harrison recovered himself
sufficiently, he addressed his nephew
familiarly as though he had always known
him. “Sidney my boy you are so like
your mother I was near breaking down, and
that is an unusual thing for a man at my
time of life, one who has knocked about as
I have in many countries on the land and
on the sea, but it is my good fortune to
find you here in this wild place, and to learn
how you have won the respect and confi-
dence of some of my dear friends, and now
I propose to take you under my special
care, as if I were your own father, and I 
shall ask these good Christian people to get
another preacher, and you shall have a
vacation.”
	The young man could scarce find voice
to reply, he was so completely overcome
with the declaration of his new-found uncle,
who spoke like an oracle, but realizing how
stupid it was not to reply, he roused him-
self and asked, “How did you find me out,
have you been in London recently, did you 
learn of me through Houghton & Co.?”
	“No I’ve not been in London since com-
ing from abroad, I am just from the West
Indies, and had not even thought of you,
except perhaps casually, since I learned you
had taken to the pulpit, but I’m not going
to find fault with you for that, or anything
else, Mrs. Bland tells me you’re a capital
fellow, almost her sole friend here, and that
you stood by Anna my foster-daughter and
were a great solace in her most trying
hours. For these kindnesses alone you
would deserve my gratitude, but as you are
really my kinsman, and as we are somewhat
alone in the world, with no near relatives
we must become better acquainted, and now
if you have breakfasted, let us walk out
together in the open air, and talk of ou[-]
relationship. I am not a man of ceremonies
as you see, but we shall get on agreeably
doubtless, and as you are intimate at Mrs.
Bland’s we will call there later on, and as-
tonish her with the news that we have found
each other.”
	“I was not aware you knew Mrs. Bland
uncle, I only just guessed from what you
said now, that she had told you of me, but
does she not know you are my relative, how
then came she to speak of me, and how did
you know Mrs. Bland?”
	“All these questions in one, I know Mrs.
Bland through Anna Hilliard, and I found
her by accident much as I have you; I was
in London, in the gay season, and met Lady
Anna Hilliard at a party and was struck
with her resemblance to my cousin Clarice
Courtney, and by inquiring learned she

