MANTI W. S. A.

	SYNOPSIS of meeting of Manti W. S. A.
held in the Ladies’ Hall Wednesday Even-
ing August 15th. President A. L. Cox in
the chair. Meeting called to order prompt-
ly at 8:30. Singing, “The New America”
from the suffrage song book. Opening
prayer by Mrs. Wareham.
	The President then addressed the meet-
ing, expressed her pleasure at seeing so
many of the ladies at the close of the
summer vacation. Hoped they had formed
resolutions to redouble their zeal and energy
in the good cause of Equal Rights during
the coming season. Spoke of approaching
Statehood and its possibilities for the disfran-
chised half of the population. Referred
with pleasure to the presence of Miss Alice
Chapin of Mass., who would now address
the association.
	Miss Chapin expressed her pleasure in
meeting with the ladies of the W. S. A.
and although not a public speaker in the
usual acceptance of the term, was proud to
raise her voice in behalf of equal, suffrage.
Gave some very interesting reminiscences of
her father’s experience an abolitionist
and suffragist in connection with Wendell
Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Henry
Blackwell and others whose friend and co-
laborer he was. Told of the abuse and
social ostracism they had endured as a
penalty for promulgating an unpopular
doctrine. Referred to the striking change
in public sentiment which had taken
place in the last forty years. Said that
where the daily papers in the East once
gave a column of invective and sarcasm
when mentioning a suffrage meeting, they
now gave respectful notice in their local
columns that such a meeting had been held.
The speaker had no doubts as to the ulti-
mate success of the suffrage movement.
Thought all women should be preparing
themselves for citizenship, lest they prove
as incompetent in that capacity as some
men had done. Miss Chapin’s speech was
well received and a rising vote at the close
testified to the appreciation of her audience.
	She was followed by Mrs. Wareham, 
who endorsed the sentiments of the previous
speaker, thought the ballot in the hands of
women would do much to rid the nation of
the sin and infamy of the liquor traffic.
A comic speech by Mrs. Sidwell was well
received and occasioned considerable merri-
ment. After closing remarks by the Presi-
dent the singing of the “Star Spangled
Banner,” the meeting adjourned till Aug.
28th. Benediction by Mrs. Kenner.
A. A.


