[Column 2]
five years old, gave two selections on the 
violin and was loudly applauded; the child
is a musical genius, as was his father, who is 
now a fine violinist. Thomas Dobson who 
came over the plains with the hand-cart
company and had both his feet frozen, re-
lated a little of his sad experience, and then 
gave the Fisher's hornpipe. The Highland 
Fling by Miss Mabelle Derrick in costume 
was very pleasing, she gives it in good 
style, and the dress is specially becoming. 
Martin Lenzi gave one of his fancy dances, 
he is still light upon his feet, and dances
wonderfully, though in his 80th year. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Hunter a Scotch woman in her
Highland costume gave us a Scotch dance, 
(she is also somewhere in the seventies)
and fond of the exercise, complained the 
music was not fast enough; she has won
many prizes for her dancing in times past. 
Miss Lyle Young gave the old fashioned
Minuet, in the most graceful manner. Al- 
together the program was a success, though
we had one or two disappointments. Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edwards who was to have
sung a selection of her own but was too ill
to be present, and the Harmony Glee Club
(all male voices) which was expected to 
lead out failed, when too late to secure some
other number in its place, but all things
considered it was very satisfactory. After 
the exercises Richard Horne who had
called off the program pronounced the 
benediction, and the audience dispersed. 
	The lunch prepared by a refreshment
Committee of which Elizabeth J. Stevenson
was chairman, was most delicious and
appetizing. The entire Committee and 
those who gave their services to assist with 
the program were invited to partake of the 
bountiful repast. 
	The object of the gathering was particu-
larly to obtain means to aid in establishing
other home manufactures in connection
with the Woman's  Co-operative Store, that 
those who needed employment to obtain 
the necessaries and comforts of life during
the coming winter might have remunerative
work and not be dependent upon charity, 
which makes people feel so much better 
than receiving help. We cannot state now 
just how large a sum has been raised but 
as the percentage allowed was only one
fourth, it could not be a great deal. 
	The Committee  feel very grateful to all 
those who assisted in any and every way to 
make it a success and especially so to those
who so willingly and liberally gave their 
services to make the program interesting, 
those who sang, danced, recited etc. Mrs. 
Horne and the ladies associated with her
may congratulate themselves that the day 
was an enjoyable one and the party was a 
very happy occasion as a reunion for a 
faithful band of diligent workers.


