			VILATE YOUNG, Sec.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall July 28, 1894. President Horne
presiding; opened by singing, “Come,
come ye Saints." Prayer Counselor Webb.
Singing, “Oh! Say what is truth, etc.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.

[Column 3]
	President Horne said, “I wish to talk a
few minutes about the manner of voting.
Brother Penrose gave some good instruc-
tions in regard to it. At the Eighteenth
Ward Conference, he said when we vote it
should be in a way, that will show we are
interested in the duty before us, lift the
arm to the square. I am well pleased
with the liberal response of officers and
stockholders, to the call made to be present
at this meeting, as I have business of im-
portance to lay before the sisters, I feel the
time has come that a united effort should
be made, to sustain and build up home in-
dustry and institutions; at the late Relief
Society conference over Jordan the sisters
concluded to try and gather, straw and see
what they could do in hat making, our hard
times have only commenced, the brethren
are taking hold of home industry with
great interest; we don’t want them to go
ahead of us; a word must be said in regard
to our Woman’s Store, we have had a hard
struggle for three and a half years, and are
still alive, but not by the patronage of the
sisters. If all were united other industries
might be carried on with the same expense,
that it requires to ruen the store. The
Lord says, ‘I will have a people that will
live by sacrifice.’ Why can’t we come to
that and sustain our own institutions. We
don’t know how soon our supplies may be
cut off. Its fearful to contemplate the trials
of the inhabitants of the earth; calamities
by fire and water, and accidents of every
kind. I hope we will take warning by the
signs of the times, and be prepared for
things to come. My grand-son bought a
couple of shirts, and I thought upon exam-
ining them, how much better to have them
made at home, than sending our means
away, and leaving our girls without em-
ployment. There are many branches of
industry we can take hold of if we are
united as Relief Society Sisters. We
ought to combine our interests. One can’t
do it alone, we must remember ‘where
there’s a will there’s a way.’ We talk a
good deal about suffrage, we thought in
starting the store it would be just what we
needed. But have been disappointed in
some of our calculations. I will now leave
the subject before you hoping to hear from
others.”
	Sister L. D. Alder, my Sunday School
Class has been reading about the downfall
of Jerusalem, how the people disregarded
the warning. The down fall came just the
same, Brother Cannon has given us words
of warning as well as others. How often
we are told to prepare ourselves for trying
times, we can easily see how soon we can
be cut off from the outside world, by the ex-
perience of the past few weeks. Brother
Woodruff says destruction is in the very
air. We can imagine what the condition
will be when brother is arrayed against
brother and those who will not take up the
sword must flee to Zion for safety. I have
worked at the straw work years ago, we
had hats for sale also rag carpets, in the
Relief Society. I am anxious these home
industries should succeed for I am just as
sure as can be things will come, as has been
predicted.
	Sister C. C. Raleigh Wells:—“I can en-
dorse what Sister Horne says in regard to
the struggle we have had to keep, our store
running, I believe the move was given by
inspiration. Have kept up against all
drawbacks, have never felt for a moment
we would fail. Men would have given up
long ago. Our intention in the beginning


was to furnish employment for some of our
girls, we had other aims, and desires, have
been disappointed in many things. The
Relief Society is well established if each
would give us a little of their patronage
it would be a great help to us. Its a re-
proach to us, that this is the only ladies’
store we have; thus far we have not had
thanks for our labor but reproach, I hope
the sisters from this on, will assist and
make this institution what we intended it
to be. There is no need of failure if we
cant get what we want at the store. You
could if you give us your patronage. We
could carry a much larger stock. Sister
Alder spoke my fellings, have been looking
for these times, we will surely be cut off,
if things continue as they are: we have it
I know, I hope every Sister will take hold
with us if we dont heed the warnings,
we will be sure to feel the mistakes made;
spoke a few words on Silk Culture.
	Sister Susan Grant of Davis County said
I take great interest in Home Industry.
Always trade at the Woman’s Store. Also
advise the sisters in our stake to do so. If
we cant see the fulfillment of Prophecy I
dont know what it will take to open our
eyes. I feel to sustain Home Industry in
every branch. The Lord tells us to adorn
ourselves with the workmanship of our own
hand we should put our shoulder to the
wheel. Have good and competent workers 
in the Davis Stake. In years past I always
felt like getting in a corner and staying
there; since taking an active part in public
duties, have experienced great joy in my
labors.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox felt to endorse all
said by previous speakers. All are willing
to sustain Sister Horne in spiritual affairs.
Why not the same in regard to these in-
dustries, I am very much interested in the
straw work, think our young ladies would
do well to take hold of this branch. The
Relief Society can be a great help if they are
interested.
	Sister Minerva Snow was pleased to again
have the privilege of meeting with the
sisters. "I love to hear the testimonies and
enjoy the spirit present. I know Sister
Horne was inspired in making the remarks
she has, it is a step in the right direction.
Its time we aroused ourselves, if all would
take hold what a work could be accomplish-
ed. The time will come when we will not
have Sister Horne with us, much as we de-
sire it. I know she is inspired of God, let
us work and sustain and encourage her in
her labors. I would like to take up a class
in straw work if I had the straw. Have
just taken a trip in behalf of silk culture.
I can see the hand of the Lord in the signs
of the times. He will carry us through if
we keep hold of the iron rod.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, I am not a
director but I am a stockholder, and I am a
patronizer of the store. Am interested in
this move. Capitalists say, the hardest
toil is to make the first five hundred dollars,
would like to see this enterprise increased,
and eventually brought into a banking
institution, would like to see it become so
popular, that our sisters would be glad to
go there. Am satisfied Sister Horne, has
worked diligently, for one I feel like sus-
taining her. I pray God to bless all who
put forth an effort to save or furnish em-
ployment for our girls, etc.
	Sister. E. B. Wells, I feel especially in-
terested, in the Industrial question, am par-
ticularly interested in any thing that will
help our girls. I don’t forget how Sister

