IN MEMORIAM.
	AT her residence, in Franklin, Oneida Co.
Idaho, Mrs.  Arabella Ann Chandler Parkinson,
departed this life at 10 o’clock p. m. August 9,
1894. Aged 70 years 5 months and 13 days.
	She was born Feb. 27, 1824 at Cheltenham.
Glostershire England. She embraced the Gospel
in her native place in 1842. She was the daugh-
ter of George Chandler and Esther Glover Chan-
dler. She left her native land for the Gospel’s
sake, arriving at St. Louis, Mo. 1851. Jan. 1st
1852 she was married to Samuel Rose Parkinson,
who survives her. In 1854 she with her husband
came to Utah, locating at Kaysville, Davis Co.,
remaining there six years. In 1860 she removed
to Franklin, where she passed away.
	She endured many hardships and privations
incident to settling in a new place. She was the
mother of nine children, eight of whom, four sons
and four daughters, survive her.
	Of her family it may truthfully be said, they are
noble, faithful sons and daughters, and her last
days were her best days, in seeing her posterity
walking in the ways of the Lord, aud striving to
serve Him. Among them is George C. Parkin-
son, President of the Oneida Stake of Zion.
But the mother love strong within her, recognized
that these children every one of them, were the
jewels that should shine in her crown forever-
more. She also leaves thirty one grandchildren,
and one great grand child. She was the last one
of her family of thirteen children, and the only
one of her father’s house to stand in holy places,
and be a savior on Mount Zion. She honored
all the institutions of God, living for many years
in the Patriarchal order of marriage. She cared
for the needy and sad of God’s children, honor-
ing the office of Presideut of the Relief Society
of Franklin.
	Her funeral was held in the Franklin Meeting
House, on Sunday August 12, 1894, under the
supervision of Bishop Hatch. It was largely
attended, not only from Franklin, but many of
the settlements where she was widely known and
respected.
	The services commenced by the choir singing
“Mourn not the dead.” Prayer by Thomas
Smart. Singing, “Sister thou wast mild and
lovely.”
	The first speaker was Counselor M. F. Cowley
of the Stake Presidency, who spoke words of
comfort to the bereaved, bearing testimony of her
many virtues, and noble life; also gave good in-
structions to the saints, and closed by saying she
had been faithful to the end, and was among
those whom the Apostle John saw, “They had
come up through great tribulations, having
washed their robes white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	Bishop Hatch followed, echoing the sentiments
of the first speaker, and added his blessing to the
husband and bereaved children. Elder William
Smart followed, bearing testimony of her so
gently passing away, saying that this was in ful
fillment of the prophecy, that the saints should
not taste of death. Elder Charles Hobbs said
he was numbered with her in the little branch in
Cheltenham. Told of the joy they had experi-
enced in bearing testimony of Jesus and the
truth of the Gospel.
	A quartette of male voices rendered “Shall
we meet beyond the river.”
	Elder Isaac Nash, read an original poem, com-
posed by himself for the occasion, also made
some comforting remarks. Counselor S. H
Hale of the Stake Presidency, also spoke words
of esteem and affection.
	The impressive services were closed by the
choir singing “O, my Father,” and the benedic-
tion by Dr. Parkinson of Logan.
	Many hundreds of her friends passed by the
beautiful white casket, laden with choice flowers,
and took their last farewell of the peaceful sleeper
therein.
	About seventy vehicles followed to the ceme-
tery, on the slope of a hill. Counselor S. H.
Hale, dedicated the spot for her rest, until the
trump of God shall sound, and the dead in the
Lord shall rise to life, immortality and eternal
lives.					COMMUNICATED.


[Column 1]
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
Address, 34 East Fifth South. Telephone 383.

