[Column 2]
was her daughter. I called unceremonious-
ly and met Miss Conway since Mrs.Bland and
some other time, I may tell you more, but
for the present, that is sufficient explanation
and now let us go.”
	Once in the open air the two gentlemen
conversed freely, the younger one more
reticent was unwilling to acknowledge he
needed rest or even a change, but he found
his uncle determined to carry his point, and
he finally consented that he would go with
him to good old Deacon Meredith and ask
for his release. Mr. Harrison declared it
must be final, his nephew argued against
it, but the elder man was the stronger, and
when Mrs. Bland joined in the persuasion,
the young minister gave way and the con-
sent was gained; the old Deacon was pro-
fuse in his praise of dear Mr. Barrington,
and so delighted to know of his distinguish-
ed uncle.
	Mr. Harrison received a letter from
Clair not long after his arrival in America,
and as Clair had found that his cousin Jane
was now a widow, and was well aware how
matters stood with Robert Harrison, he
inquired particularly whether there was
any hope of his being successful in winning 
the affections of his cousin, and added,
“she is the bravest, truest, most conscien-
tious, and withal the most superior woman
I have ever known, even Lady Walton
says, she has never seen her equal."	
	Mr. Harrison concealed these inquiries
from Mrs. Bland, but read it all to his
nephew, who coincided and was even more
enthusiastic in her praise. By this time
the two men understood each other very
well, in fact Mr. Harrison was at first very
much afraid, the young minister was him-
self in love with the widow, and the par-
ishioners of conrse had not been slow in
circulating the story of the intimacy, so the
new arrival should hear of it. Mr. Harri-
son however, soon found how matters stood,
and questioned Sidney very closely concern-
ing his friendship for Anna. Sidney ad-
mitted Maitland’s jealousy but explained
that it was totally unfounded, that he had
been strongly attracted to Lady Walton
from the time he first met her on board
ship, and said he “Uncle Robert it was one
of those peculiar fascinations that I seemed
to have no power to control, it was purely
spontaneous, and I believe she felt it as
strongly as I did, for she confided in me
with the utmost freedom, and I could not
account for it, nor can I even now, though
I know the kinship that existed, O, if
Anna could have known we were cousins,
what a pleasure it would have been!”
	Many were the long talks these two had
together. and with Mrs. Bland, but Mr.
Barrington did not lose any of that deep
religious fervor through his association with
his uncle but in this respect he unconscious-
ly helped him to look upward and to be
more spiritual in his character; and indeed
the society with which he mingled Puritani-
cal as it was, lifted him out of himself, and
he grew gradually more religious in tem-
perament through these dominant influences
that were all about him. He was long
past his youth, and even the meridian of
life, and Mrs. Bland when thinking serious-
ly of the future, could not but wonder at
the fate that seemed to suggest that she
should unite herself in marriage the second
time with a man so many years her senior.
Robert Harrison had let her see from the
first how sacredly he held her, and Clair
wrote again and again to her urging her
consent, for said he, "you will need some

[Column 3]
one to help you, even though you are so
self-reliant, my sister Anna’s children are
bound to come to you yet, Maitland is pay-
ing his addresses to one of the society belles
of London, who will never take charge of
another woman’s children, and Lady Wal-
ton looks weary and frail."
	Mrs. Bland's heart gave a great bound
when she read that letter, her love for her
cousin’s children was strong and abiding,
and she longed for them daily and hourly,
but she wavered in her feelings when she
thought of once more entering into marriage
relations. It seemed to her high sense of
justice not quite honorable to the dead,
especially as she recalled how hard it had
been for her to keep her promise to the 
Doctor, after realizing the true state of her
own feelings towards the man, who was
now so ardently and persistently urging
her consent to become his wife. She had a 
number of friends, worthy good women
but no confident, and she decided finally to
talk with Sidney, as she had learned to
speak of him, for he was like her own
brother now almost, so near her own age,
though such women as Jane Bland seem
older than their years. Mr. Harrison had
never told her of his boyish love for his
cousin Clarice, but she had heard it from
those ladies at the London ball, and she
made up her mind he must tell her if the
marriage was to be; she could not ask him, 
and she was in a sort of quandary how to
bring it about. “The old saying all things
come to those who wait,” proved true in
the life of Jane Bland.
	One evening when they were sitting in
her drawing room after dinner, and con-
versation flowed freely, Robert Harrison ad-
dressing Sidney said, "Has Mrs. Bland
ever told you of her interesting and singu-
lar experiences at Hilliard castle?”
	“Never, and I would so like to know
about that old ruin as they all term it, Lady
Walton once told me it was unbearable un-
til after her cousin Jane came to stay there,
her father was seldom at home, and so stern
and unrelenting she was always in awe of
him, and she knew nothing of her mother,
there was not even a portrait of her in the
gallery, nor anywhere, though it is said
she was uncommonly beautiful, and as you
knew her Uncle Robert (she was your own
cousin I believe) suppose you tell us of this
lovely lady, who died so young when there
was everything to live for.”
	I cannot now, at some future, some more
opportune time I mean, but pardon me it is
with great pain I hear her alluded to, her
marriage was most unfortunate, a hurried
affair, brought about by others, she never
loved Sir Edward Hilliard, never could
have loved him, her very opposite in every
thing.” Mrs. Bland watched Mr. Harri-
son scrutinizingly as he spoke of Lady
Hilliard, she had guessed as much, then he
must tell her of this, otherwise she would
never consent to the marriage he so much
desired.
	One day soon after, they were walking
together through a great forest of tall pines,
and while resting underneath the trees, Mr.
Harrison spoke of his boyhood, what a 
pleasure it had been to ramble in the green
fields and parks and grand old woods of
England, and as he talked on enthusiastical-
ly of his sister and his cousin who were his
playmates and companions, he looked up and
said abruptly, I must tell you Jane (Mrs.
Bland I mean) of my boyish love and how
I came to be such a restless rover, wander-
ing from land to land and never satisfied.


