[Column 2]
over two and a half million pounds. Free
schools, and churches of all denominations
are supported. The fine arts have their
devotees. Sculptors, painters, musicians,
poets, all create the images of their fancy
which bring to them the meed of praise,
and pleasure to their patrons.
	When you visit the World’s Fair, spend
an hour in the Utah Building and be sur-
prised and pleased. You then will grant
the truth and moderation of my words to-
night.
	Look at Utah as she is today. Let the
dead past bury the dead. Have you read
the public records? In the official judgment
of the nations Chief Executive there is no
“Mormon Question” now. President
Harrison accepts the Manifesto of the Mor-
mon people as sincere, and so by proclama-
tion has granted amnesty.
	Leaves have their time to fall. Utah has
emerged from gloomy night, and all her
citizens, Mormon, Jew and Gentile, hail
the coming day. Courted with favor by
both the great political parties, Utah—hav-
ing long outgrown her swaddling clothes,
will soon be clothed with robes of state-
hood. Be not taken by surprise; rather
with a reconciled assurance bid a sister
welcome.
	Listen to the patriotic song of Utah’s
sons and daughters. We know no other
country, it is our first and only love. The
grandsires of the pioneers—our fathers,
and the valiant soldiers of the Revolution,
in the struggle for independence, marched
shoulder to shoulder, fought and bled and
died on the same battle fields. In the time
of war, the union’s loyal sons have braved
the fight, and faithful wives and mothers
prayed. We would not ask for war to give
the test, that were disregardful of the
nation’s weal; but oh, believe me! there
beats within our breasts hearts that are true!
We would be good and upright citizens of
the grand Republic. We would emulate
the virtues of the tried and true. Wash-
ington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Grant, all by
us are known and loved. Then extend to
us the hand of friendship, let your hearts
express good will thus man to man is re-
conciled and the purposes of God fulfilled.
Behold! and lo! In the western sky a
shining star appears and that star—Utah,
“Queen of the West.”


