RELIEF SOCIETY EXCURSION. 

	THE first excursion the Relief Society
ever had was celebrated on Friday, August
24, 1894. and was a most interesting oc-
casion. Some of the committee went over
to the Lake in the forenoon to look after
matters, and at 2.15 p. m. there were four-
teen cars crowded full to overflowing, 
left the depot en route for Saltair. Arriv-
ing at the pavilion baskets were deposited 
in the great dining hall and the committee
and their aids prepared for the program of 
exercises. The Relief Society banner had been 
hung in a conspicuous place, also the 
streamer representing the Silk Industry, 
noting the time the association was 
organized by President Brigham Young. 
	President George Q. Cannon who had 
been specially invited to speak and President
Angus M. Cannon, Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, E. B. Wells, M.
W. Wilcox, E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. 
Howe and L. D. Alder and several other 
members of the committee and of the 
Relief Society were seated on the platform. 
The Committee wore badges of white rib-
bon, the name Relief Society and the motto
"Charity never faileth" in gold letters, 
emblematic of the work of the Society. 
	The exercises opened with the favorite
hymn "O, my Father thou that dwellest," 
the large audience being asked to join in 
the singing. President Angus M. Cannon
offered prayer. 
	President George Q. Cannon gave a 
short speech suitable to the occasion upon 
the grand work accomplished by the Relief 
Society among the needy, the sick and the 
afflicted, and referred in terms of praise
and encouragement to the diligence and 
patience with which the sisters had labored, 
setting forth the aims and objects of the 
Society and the blessing it had been to 
many, and praying the blessing of the Lord 
upon the efforts made and upon the assem-
bly there gathered etc. 
	The Cecelia Club nine young ladies all 
fine singers rendered in excellent voice the 
song of "Mother's Lullaby." The Swiss
Warblers in costume, three ladies and two 
gentlemen in the quaint fashion of their 
native country were an attractive feature,
and their musical warble so well suited to
the Swiss mountains sounded well in the 
great open pavilion. Mrs. C. Louise
Boyden the elocutionist gave a "Model 
Discourse" (humorous) and Eli H. Pierce
sang a comic song. "There's a lock on the 
chicken coop door." Master Bertie Clive

