[Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton]

Suggestions for a Work Meeting ouncheon Christine Eaton SANDWICH SPREAD (Makes about 50 sandwiches) 2 cans corned beef or any pressed _ 3 tbsp.
Prepared horse radish loaves of meat 7 2 tbsp.
Prepared mustard ' tsp. Pepper: | | salad dressing Grind corned beef, add pepper, horse radish, and mustard and enough salad dressing to make a good paste. I find that in making a spread out of meat it goes much farther than just to slice the meat. APPLE, CELERY, AND RAISIN SALAD (Serves 50) qts. Cut apples 4 tsp. Salt 1% qts. Cut celery | 1 tsp. Paprika 3 'cups raisins 1% cups salad oil Y%, cup lemon juice 2 tbsp. Sugar Stew raisins slowly in as little water as possible until plump and tender, but not mushy, then drain and save liquid.
Beat together oil, seasoning, lemon, and sugar and six or eight tablespoons of raisin water.
Peel apples, quarter, and slice crosswise. The slices should be thick enough not to break. Cut celery in quarter-inch slices.
Marinate apples and celery in oil mixture and let stand thirty minutes, drain, add raisins.
Serve on shredded lettuce with mayonnaise dressing to which whipped cream has been added.
Dates may be used instead of raisins.
They need not be cooked. GUMDROP BARS (Makes about 40 cookies) 2 cups sifted flour 2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon., " cup evaporated milk Y% tsp. Salt | 1 cup soft gumdrops (omit licorice) 3 eggs 7 | "' cup chopped nut meats Sift flour, salt, and cinnamon together.
Beat eggs until light and beat in sugar and milk gradually, then add the flour mixture in thirds, beating until smooth after each addition; add gumdrops and nuts, spread in a greased pan, and bake in oven at 325° F. For 35 minutes. Cut into bars 1 x 3 inch.
Spread tops with frosting and decorate with pieces of gumdrops. FROSTING Confectioners Icing 2 cups confectioners sugar 3 to 4 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp.
Melted butter —, 1 tsp. Vanilla Blend the ingredients thoroughly, using enough cream to make the icing easy to spread.
Spread over the cookies while they are still slightly warm. 
Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 26) day, when her true feelings had tumbled out in words. Maybe it would be better just to ignore this moming's episode. Half-heartedly, Edith opened the paper to the want ads. Everything in her rebelled against the thought of trusting herself into the workaday world, where the tides of life run ruthlessly swift. Sliding her fingers down the column was more a gesture of self-pity than a sincere seeking. Housekeepers, waitresses, and saleswomen seemed to be the only openings, none of them suited to her., As she was laying the paper aside, her eyes caught one item: '""Wanted: Companion for aged lady. Very little to do. Comfortable room with salary.", Well, a job like that would certainly solve the difficulty, providing one wanted it. Edith didn't. Since the "Women Want Work" column was twice as long as "Help Wanted, Female," this plum would long since have been plucked, anyway. Nevertheless, to salve her conscience, to say she had tried, she went to the telephone and dialed the number listed. A man's voice answered. Edith summoned her sweetest voice and said, "My name is Edith Ashe, Mrs. Marvin Ashe. I am calling in answer to your advertisement." She was prepared for a flood of questions, or to be told that the position was filled. Instead, his breath came out in relief. "Mrs. Marvin Ashe? I'm so glad you called. No one else has called yet, and I was getting desperate. I have to leave for Chicago at nine o'clock in the morning. Can you be here at eight? Call a cab and come to 1218
North Walnut. I'll pay your fare. Can you do that?" "IT guess so. Yes," said Edith hesitatingly. "Fine! I'll depend upon that," he said, and hung up. Edith stood by the telephone, undecided whether to call him back and refuse this preposterous arrangement. What kind of man would hire a person without question? She would call him, yes—later. Now she could still feel the urgency of his voice. She went upstairs to look over her clothes and toilet articles— just in case, her knees feeling peculiarly weak and her head light with unreality. Kit would make short work of this silliness. * Ke Ke "Well, mother. You just can't do it," declared Kit matter-of-factly when she told them at dinner. Annette's eyes widened apprehensively and sought Kit's. Kit nodded slightly. "What's his number? I'll call him now." "T've left the poor man depending upon me. No doubt he's told other applicants the place is filled. Of course I shall go." Annette's eyes filled with tears. "Mother," she said, "I've hoped all day that you didn't hear me this morning. I'm so ashamed, and so sorry. That's it, isn't it?" (To be continued) 
You Can Learn (Continued from page 29) what has happened to us. She always has the water boiling and is ready to start by the time I get there," | said as I guided Freckles through the lane gate. "Mother does, too; she is such an early riser," Mary assented. "We don't get done any too early, though, and I have to go around the ward for the Relief Society this afternoon." "Mother has to go, too. She won't be there to worry about me overdoing if I get part of my ironing done while I am down there where I can use the electric iron. She always says I try to kill myself in one day, but I just love to iron with the electric iron. I guess I'm spoiled. She doesn't like me to take the baby's clothes in, a piece here and there as they dry and spoil the looks of her beautiful lines, either," I sighed. "Well, there is one thing about driving Freckles," Mary said, with her usual optimism, "we can take the short cut and cross the river. It is just about as quick that way with the horse as it is the other way in the car." "Yes, and that way we come into the east part of town and don't have to be seen on Main Street with this outfit,' I teased. Mey didn't like to be seen driving the horse. She said we and the two old ladies from Scrabble Flats were the only ones who had to go to town in a buggy Well, I knew a lot of farm women who didn't get to town unless they  waited for their men folks to take them. At least Freckles got us there. "Yes, there or someplace," Mary chuckled, reminding me of the time when he took the bit between his teeth and took us right up over the railroad tracks. We had a good laugh remembering that, although it wasn't funny at the time. "There isn't much water left in the river this time of the year is there?" I asked dreamily as my eyes wandered appreciatively over the view of the valley before us.
Freckles took advantage of me, as usual, and took a short cut up over the bank, very nearly upsetting the whole outfit. "You'll have to quit daydreaming," Mary said, a trifle reprovingly, as she pushed the pans of butter back under the seat. "How many pounds did you get today?" "Six. That's two dollars and forty cents. 'll have enough to get that new strainer today. I don't need so many groceries," I answered absently as I watched the clouds sailing happily in the deep blue sky. "They're the kind of clouds my.
Father says spell rain.
Hope we get our clothes dry first.
Guess we better hurry."
Rain it did. Not till afternoon, and we had our clothes in and dry, but how it did rain! The clouds, which had looked so gay and carefree in the morning, turned black and threatening.
Regular cloudburst off to the east of town. Our buggy didn't have any top, so we were obliged to wait It looked like a. YOU CAN LEARN until the storm had passed before we started home. The sun had gone down before we left, but the cool air was a treat and we weren't afraid of the dark.
That is, we weren't afraid of ordinary dark, but the clouds settled back low over the sky and it soon became so dark that we had to let Freckles find the road for himself.
This he seemed perfectly capable of doing, so we let him take his time. The air was thick with blackness and soft and warm.
Ernie was sleeping peacefully in his basket in the front of the buggy. We were tired and maybe a little sleepy. Suddenly Freckles stopped with his usual snort and a jerk, which brought us to attention in a second. It was so dark that we couldn't see what it was all about, but we could see that we were in the bend of the road where a small irrigation ditch usually drained some waste water into what had once been a big wash and which still came too close to the road for comfort even in the daytime. The roadway was really wide enough, though; we had crossed it many times. Now we could hear water running and surmised that the storm had probably swollen the little stream until Freckles hesitated to cross. I urged him gently forward, but he refused to cross, jerking forward a little, then backing up and turning sidewise until the buggy was at a dangerous angle. I backed him up and straightened the buggy, then tightened the lines and urged him forward with determination. We just had to get home; it looked like it might rain again any moment. 39
Freckles finally lurched forward into the blackness and we were nearly thrown from our seat. I grabbed Enrnie's basket in time to save it from the swirling water. The water was clear up to the floor of the buggy and Freckles was fighting furiously to hold a footing. The rear wheel on my side must have been over the caving side of the wash. Finally, with a great lurch, Freckles dragged the buggy to safety. I guess it couldn't have taken a minute in all, or we would have gone down that great wash with the flooding waters. But it seemed like hours as I clung to that basket and prayed desperately.
After it was all over and Freckles stood trembling on the other side, and our hearts quieted enough for us to hear, we realized just what we had been saved from. The rain, which had looked so black in the hills east of town, must have brought out a flood and it had followed its old track down to the wash. As we listened to its growing roar, we heard a great thud and splash as another piece of the bank caved into the wild stream below. Humbly I started Freckles again on the homeward road and as we faced the blackness, I realized that he had more sense than I had. He had known better than to try to cross that stream.
Erie had wakened and I took him in my arms and held him close to me for the second time that day. "Oh, thanks, dear God," I silent- 'ly prayed, "for saving my baby a second time this day. I'll try, I'll try to learn faster."