[Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: President George Albert Smith T. Edgar Lyon]

President Smith has always been very interested in programs for the benefit of the youth. His sermons frequently carry a plea for better understanding of youth's problems. He not only preaches this doctrine, but goes into action to accomplish it. For more than twenty years he served on the Salt Lake Council of the Boy Scouts of America and was awarded the Silver Beaver, the highest award a council can confer on its members. He has been a member of the National Executive Board of Boy Scouts of America since 19265. In 1934, the National Council awarded him the Silver Buffalo, the | greatest recognition within its power to bestow on anyone. He actively participated in the promotion of scouting as a youth program while he directed the affairs of the Y. M. M. I. A.; and Utah earned the distinction of having the highest percentage of its boys enrolled in scouting, over that of any other state, which record still holds. President George Albert Smith has devoted himself to the preservation of the memory of the pioneers of the great West. He took a leading part in the organizing of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association in 1930 and was elected its president and has so continued since. He enlisted the aid of local Church and school groups to preserve pioneer history. He studied the history of the various pioneer enterprises that achieved the settlement of the great West and familiarized himself with the overland trails made by these people, particularly the Latter-day Saint pioneers. This association has placed more than one hundred permanent 68 BEST LOVED d-PART CHORUSES FOR Ninging Mothers 1451
Bless This House—Brahe.15 56
The Bridge Builder—Dougall.18 R2782
God Painted A Picture— DeRose -.20 531
Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs.15 7876
How Beautiful Upon the Mountains—Harker ___ 16 1758
How Lovely Are Thy. Dwellings—Liddle. AS 7002
Just for Today—Seaver __ 5 1776
The King of Glory—Parks _..20 4071
The Lord Bless You—Lutkin...15 52
The Lord's Prayer—Gates.18 62 My Redeemer Lives—Gates...18 100 O Savior of the World—Goss_.15 4070
That Sweet Story of Old— West _ io When Children Pray—Fenner, 18
Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. Da FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH on
MAIN STREET SALT LAKE
Mus 1, De  markers and monuments at historic sites under his presidency. He has also served as a member of the executive board of the American Pioneer 'T'rails Association.
More recently he served as vice-chairman of the Utah Centennial Committee under President Grant and, later, as chairman of this body in the erection of the great pioneer, "This Is the Place Monument." He has been of invaluable aid to the sightless. 'Through the Churchsponsored Society for the Aid of the Sightless, of which he is president, the Book of Mormon and religious information in Braille are placed at the disposal of the blind. In the interest of establishing the kingdom of God on earth, President Smith has preached the gospel in all of the states of the United States and all of the provinces of Canada, and in Alaska and Mexico, the Hawaiian Islands, New Zealand, Australia, Tasmania, Tonga, Samoa, Cuba, the British Isles, including England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, the Scandinavian countries of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, and Holland, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, and France. In all, he has traveled in his ministry approximately one million miles in the world. In May 1945, George Albert Smith was sustained as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. John D. Giles, recently of the general superintendency of the Y. M. M. LA,, said of him: He has preached the gospel of honest work, of thrift, of good homes, of education, and of progress.
Through all he has been practical and consistent: He has LESSON DEPARTMENT preached only what he has practiced. He has never advocated that others should do what he was not willing to do first. His leadership is of the kind that leads by both precept and example (Improvement Era 48:389). The following tribute found published in the Improvement Era was paid him at the time he departed to preside over the European Mission: He has a remarkable faculty for the making of friends, his enemies even respecting him. He has never said mean or unworthy things of his opponents.
This is one of his characteristics. In the preaching of the gospel, he does not tear down a man's house, but builds the gospel structure over him with an open and loving invitation to inhabit it... George Albert Smith is a typical Latter-day Saint; broadminded, active in good work, zealous in his calling, reliable, conscientious, honest, clean in language and action, faithful, punctual, considerate of his fellows, high or low, having confidence in God, a man who puts his soul into his work.. « His actions in youth never caused his parents one moment of anxiety, and he has kept in mind the name he bears, and honored it, believing truthfully, that no son ever had a better father and mother than he... (Improvement Era 22:791 ff). In 1938, while planning a missionary visit to the missions of the South Pacific, he made a remark that is typical of his attitude toward all people. He said: The Lord loves all men: they are all His children, and His commission to His Apostles was and is to go forth and preach the gospel to all the world.
That is our mission and our joy in it will be great indeed if through any effort of ours we can help to show these children of God in the lands of the Pacific the way back to their eternal home (Improvement Era, 41:97). President Smith feels deeply his appreciation of and faith in the
69 SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO PARK FREE! SHOP EASY! SAVE MORE! At your nearest Sears Store, where you'll find that GOOD QUALITY ALWAYS COSTS YOU LESS! REDDY KILOWATT BRING YOU YEAR 'ROUND COMFORT Electricity performs many, many household tasks better, faster and at low cost. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 70 90
Years since Joseph Edward Taylor was appointed as undertaker by President Brigham Young, and 68
Years since his eldest son Joseph Wm. Taylor started the business which now carries his name, and now under the management of his daughter Marguerite Taylor Beck "The cost is a matter of your own desire." 125
North Main Phone 3-7824 SALT LAKE CITY WITH AN EYE TO THE FUTURE We're Proud to Announce TERM The Winter Term at L. D. S. Begins January 3, 1950. New classes will be offered you then. Keep that date in mind because many You may register for either day or evening classes the week of January 3-7. A full business curriculum is offered at the L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE. Write or call for further information L. D. §, BUSINESS COLLEGE 70
North Main Salt Lake City L. D. S. Training doesn't cost; it pays!  women of the Church. At the first general conference over which he presided as President of the Church, he said: I would like to say to this great body of priesthood, you are fortunate men if you have been blessed with a good wife, a daughter of God, to stand by your side. And I want to say to you that God loves her just as much as he loves you. If you would have his blessings, you will treat her with love and kindness and tenderness and helpfulness. She will then be able to carry on under the responsibilities that come to her to bring children into the world and nurture and care for them and teach them the plan of life and salvation. And so I plead with you, my brethren, let your homes be the abiding place of love, and the authority that you bear' should magnify that love in your souls and in the lives of your wives and your children. Yesterday this house was filled with the daughters of Zion, and I say without hesitation that you could find no more beautiful picture of womankind in ail the world than was here yesterday afternoon. These faithful wives, these faithful daughters, assume their portion of the burden and carry it on. They make their homes a heaven when sometimes without them the homes would be anything but heaven (Conference Report, October 1945, page 23). President Smith retained J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay as his counselors in the First Presidency. 'These three men are all outstanding characters, devoted to the cause they so capably lead. In their promotion of the kingdom of God on earth their work is united. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. Read the article by President George Albert Smith found in the December 1948 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 2. How do you account for the fact that LESSON DEPARTMENT 71
President Smith has spent so much of his time and effort to aid others—the sightless, youth, those in spiritual darkness, and those who are distressed? ' 3. Make a list of the outstanding traits qe, Ne ofessional of his character and show how they manifest the practical application of ° the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Social 4. Why has so much distinction been rendered President Smith by organiza-: tions and individuals outside of LatterJi lationer yy day Saint circles? References * Improvement Era, 22:791-795; 35:269- COMMERCIAL 272, 2953 41:97, 5225 43:31; 48:388, 389, AND EDITION 430, 431. PRINTERS AND Jenson, Andrew, L. D. S. Biographical BOOK BINDERS Encyclopedia 3:776-778 4:246, 318. PAPER RULING ~~ All Shings Must Rest
DESERET NEWS PRESS
Grace M. Candland 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Late falling snow has covered all the land, A deep solemnity pervades the scene Of untouched, virgin beauty, while I stand = In awe, my heart both reverent and serene. Now everything must rest.
Beside the fire Serenity* I too can take my ease since well I know That summer's yield was all I could desire. Edith Russell Oliphant My well-plowed acres lie beneath the snow Death has no fears for me.
Storing the living water deep away I shall not tremble when he calls While I enjoy the beauty of the day. All I have loved awaits me there In the peaceful sanctuary of his quiet halls. -2-<~oI shall not cry "Procrastinate!"' Nor plead my youth, nor compromise, Ode Ja Words But slip ores _cclouee barque— LaVerne J. Stallings To navigate the pools of Paradise.
Words like birds— (*This poem was composed by Edith What wonders you can bring to me, Russell Oliphant, a young English convert Flashing beauty to the Church, who died g August 1949.
Through my somber days; It is reprinted, with permission from the Wye Magazine, Brigham Young UniWeave your miracle.... Versity. Sister Oliphant will be rememCome close and sing to me bered as the author of "The Russells Did With wings against Not Go To Church," a story in three My small and striving ways.
Parts published in 1948.) Strom Near and Sar I very much enjoyed the November poems and the lovely cover. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California The Relief Society Magazine is an important part of our household equipment and we could not do without it. It is constantly improving and should be in every Latter-day Saint home. —Maud O. Cook, Tremonton, Utah It had been a long time since I had read The Relief Society Magazine until last week when one of the women in the University Ward, which I attend, gave me some back numbers. I was pleased with the quality of the contents and enjoyed reading the Magazines very much. —Mary Orchard Black, Seattle, Washington I wish to thank you all for the lovely little paper the Magazine is. I just feel, no matter what I am doing, I must have a peep at it when it arrives.
Last week I made some caramel cookies out of it and they were so good that I copied the recipe for the lady where I work. I look for the Magazine stories first and then for the picture of the U. S. A. Relief Society members to see if there are any mothers of the elders I have met. I often wish I were nearer the U. S. A. So that I could get more knowledge of the workings of the 'L. D. S. Church, but that is not in my power at present. I feel there is something more than I am learning, something higher than I see working. —Ruby S. Vince, Judbury, Huonville, Tasmania I was happy to see my poem "Earth Decorator" (N@vember 1949, page 745) in company with that lovely contribution "Ascendant Autumn" by my good friend, the poet-artist, Ruth Harwood. —Christie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah  I enjoy seeing your little Magazine each month. The covers are outstanding and I particularly like the poetry you publish in such generous amounts. —Rachel K. Laurgaard, Sacramento, California I read the Magazine every month and enjoy it very much.
Even before I was married I read my mother's copies and now I am going to be a regular subscriber. I wish you lots of luck with the very best Magazine of the year. —Rita Jean Burtenshaw, Blackfoot, Idaho I enjoy our Relief Society meetngs so very much and would like to thank all of you who prepare all the wonderful lessons we have to help us understand the gospel more fully. It's the knowledge of the gospel that makes life more beautiful. May the Lord bless each of you and each of us in our undertakings to further this work on in a way that we shall stand for example of good among our fellow men. —RMrs. Lorena McBroom Rougemont, N. C. May I take this opportunity to tell you how much having The Relief Society Magazine has meant to me. It has been a source of strength and encouragement in many hours of need. 'Thank you for your services. —Margaret Elgaaen, Blackfoot, Idaho I am a subscriber to the Magazine and enjoy the many interesting stories, along with the lessons and other matenal. —Elizabeth Johnson, Ogden, Utah Through the kindness of a sister-in-law who has given me several years subscriptions to the Magazine, I have enjoyed many hours of good and profitable reading. I especially like the poems. —Mamie Borg, Salt Lake City, Utah PLENTIFUL NOW— Jesus, The Christ By JAMES E. TALMAGE Textbook for the study of the Life of Christ $75
The Life of Christ In Pictures: —four sets of beautiful, large, 18" x 22" colored pictures— SET I—The birth, early life and ministry, including seven miracles.