[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: 41 Birthday Congratulations]
Birthday of a King Neidlinger, No. 8878 G. Schirmer (easy range) (three-part chorus) The Birthday of a King (easy) Neidlinger, No. 7246 G. Schirmer (two-part chorus ) I Walked Today Where O'Hara, No. 8723 G. Schirmer Jesus Walked (three-part chorus) I Walked Today Where O'Hara, No. 8933 G. Schirmer Jesus Walked (two-part chorus) A Letter From Mother MY DEAR CHILDREN: I have let several days pass since receiving your wonderful letter, and it has not been entirely due to my busy hours. I have been thinking how to answer your question: "How can we teach our little children the right attitude toward life?" I was almost immediately reminded of one of my friends, who has nearly achieved a doctor's degree in child and parental psychology. Her system in the training of children is to ask "Is that kind?" All else is subject to that one scrutiny. If it is a kind thing to do, that is sufficient cause for doing it. No other correction is given so that, hearing that searching remark constantly, the little folks begin to make their own decisions based upon the thought "Is it kind?" If so, the act is justified. I believe it applies to most human behavior. If we train ourselves in the philosophy of kindness to others, we are safe.
Once we have mastered the art of being kind, it should be easier for us to mold ourselves to the beautiful pattern of life which the Lord has given to us. I hope this answers your question satisfactorily, because I believe it is an idea that wears well, and can bear studying.
Perhaps that would be a good New Year's resolution—or are you making a list this year as you used to do when you were here at home? One of my most treasured memories is the sight of busy fingers writing pages of resolutions. Remember? _ What treasures you were—you are. You have brought me so much happiness. My New Year's wish for you is that your own dear children will bring you the same joy and satisfaction that you have given to me. I love you. MOTHER Clara Horne Park