[Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]
14  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1950 
Someone  called  police— we  were  expecting 
A  convention.    We  could  not  have  a  man 
Crying  "Repent!  Repent!''  Pointing  out 
Civic  derelictions  and  private  sins. 
Girls  swayed  by  on  hard,  quick  feet, 
'If  you  don't  look  after  yourself,"  they  said, 
''No  one  else  will.  You  have  to  be  smart 
These  days."    Days.    Days.    Once  there 
Were  days,  compact  circles  of  hours. 
Morning,  noon,  and  evening  .  .  .  days  .... 
Nights.    We  thought  it  would  go  on  forever, 
Then  God  closed  the  book.    We  found 
Ourselves  between  the  covers  on  pages 
We  had  never  taken  time  to  read. 
MARGERY  S.  STEWART 
Margery  S.  Stewart  writes  with  vividness  and  originality.  Her  prose 
and  poetry  are  characterized  by  authentic  emotion  and  beauty  and  accuracy 
of  expression.  Readers  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  will  remember  with 
pleasure  her  many  excellent  contributions,  which  include  the  lovely  Christmas 
poem  'The  Traveler"  (frontispiece  poem,  December  1946)  and  the  outstand- 
ing short  story  'The  Intruder"  (October  1946).  Her  story  "The  Return" 
was  awarded  first  prize  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest  for  1946. 
This  is  Mrs.  Stewart's  first  appearance  as  a  winner  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem 
Contest.  She  is  an  active  member  of  several  writers'  groups,  including  The 
Barnacles  (story  writing  group  of  Salt  Lake  City),  the  National  Writers 
League,  the  Utah  Sonneteers,  and  other  similar  organizations. 
Mrs.  Stewart  tells  us  something  about  herself,  her  writing,  and  her  family 
in  this  charming  and  characteristic  note:  "I  have  a  daughter  Sandra,  thirteen 
years  old,  and  a  son  Russell  S.  Stewart,  Jr.,  just  turned  five.  We  have  just 
moved  into  Laurelcrest  Ward  (Salt  Lake  City)  and  I  have  begun  to  teach  a 
class  in  the  junior  Sunday  School,  which  is  the  most  enjoyable  work  I  have 
ever  done.  As  for  literary  sales,  I've  sold  to,  or  been  accepted  by.  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  The  Improvement  Era,  Western  Review,  KaJeidograph,  The 
Utah  Magazine,  This  Week,  Good  Housekeeping,  and  several  newspapers. 
I've  won  some  prizes  which  seem  to  happen  just  about  the  time  I'm  ready 
to  toss  the  typewriter  out  the  window.  I  especially  enjoy  writing  long  stories, 
such  as  serials.  I  loved  writing  'Joanna'  (serialized  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  during  1949)  above  anything  I've  ever  done.  She  (Joanna)  is  as 
real  to  me  as  my  next-door  neighbor.  Sometimes,  when  I  feel  low  or  faint- 
hearted, I  lie  awake  at  night  and  remember  Joanna  and  feel  uplifted,  which 
goes  to  prove  that  writers  don't  invent  people,  they  just  knock  on  the  door 
some  bright  morning  and  say,  'We've  come  for  a  good  long  visit!*  And 
that's  all  there  is  to  it." 

jLVoard   vi/i' ifiners 
Annual  uielief  Society  Short  Storif    (contest 
n^HE  Relief  Society  general  board 
is  pleased  to  announce  the 
names  of  the  award  winners  in  the 
short  story  contest  which  was  an- 
nounced in  the  June  1949  issue  of 
the  Magazine,  and  which  closed 
September  15,  1949. 
The  first  prize  of  fifty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Dorothy  Clapp  Robin- 
son, Boise,  Idaho,  for  her  story 
''Grass  in  the  Market  Place." 
The  second  prize  of  forty  dollars 
is  awarded  to  Norma  Wrathall,  Mur- 
ray, Utah,  for  her  story  ''The  House 
That  Jim  Built." 
The  third  prize  of  thirty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Florence  B.  Dunford, 
Boise,  Idaho,  for  her  story  "The 
Hee-Haw  Pony." 
This  contest,  first  conducted  by 
the  Relief  Society  general  board 
in  1941,  as  a  feature  of  the  Relief 
Society  centennial  observance,  was 
made  an  annual  contest  in  1942. 
The  contest  is  open  only  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  who  have  had  at 
least  one  literary  composition  pub- 
lished or  accepted  for  publication 
by  a  periodical  of  recognized  merit. 
The  three  prize-winning  stories 
will  be  published  consecutively  in 
the  first  three  issues  of  the  Magazine 
for  1950. 
Twenty-four  manuscripts  were 
submitted  in  the  contest  for  1949. 
Two  of  the  prize  winners  for  this 
year  have  previously  placed  in  the 
Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest, 
and  one  new  writer  is  represented. 
Most  of  the  stories  entered  in  this 
contest  were  well-written,  many  of 
them  revealing  professional  quality 
in  organization  and  technique. 
The  contest  was  initiated  to  en- 
courage Latter-day  Saint  women  to 
express  themselves  in  the  field  of 
fiction.  The  general  board  feels 
that  the  response  to  this  opportu- 
nity will  continue  to  increase  the  lit- 
erary quality  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  and  will  aid  the  women 
of  the  Church  in  the  development 
of  their  gifts  in  creative  writing. 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  now 
has  a  circulation  of  over  80,000. 
There  are  subscribers  in  every  state 
of  the  Union,  and  in  many  foreign 
countries,  thus  providing  a  varied 
and  interested  group  of  readers. 
Writers,  recognizing  this  large  and 
appreciative  audience,  realize  the 
importance  of  entering  in  the  con- 
test their  very  best  work. 
The  general  board  congratulates 
the  prize-winning  contestants,  and 
expresses  appreciation  to  all  those 
who  submitted  stories.  Sincere 
gratitude  is  extended  to  the  three 
judges  for  their  discernment  and 
skill  in  selecting  the  prize-winning 
stories.  The  general  board  also 
acknowledges,  with  appreciation, 
the  work  of  the  short  story  commit- 
tee in  supervising  the  contest. 
Page  15 

cfirst  [Prize  Storg 
Jxnnual  uielief  Society  Snort  Story    (contest 
Grass  in  the  Market  Place 
Doiothy  Clapp  Rohinson 
DOROTHY  CLAPP  ROBINSON 
STEPPING  outside,  Kent  Turner 
closed  the  screen  door  quietly 
behind  him.  He  stretched  luxu- 
riously and  filled  his  Inngs  with  air 
that  was  sharply  cool  and  pungent 
with  the  flavor  of  morning.  Three 
hours'  sleep  had  eased  the  strain 
of  tired  muscles,  but  that  old  nag- 
ging restlessness  was  still  with  him. 
Would  he  ever  learn?  Abruptly  he 
reached  for  his  irrigating  shovel 
and  threw  it  over  his  shoulder.  As 
he  started  across  the  yard.  Thane, 
the  collie,  rubbed  against  his  legs. 
Back  of  Mt.  Putnam,  dawn  was 
a  faint  blush  while,  below,  the  river 
bottoms  stretched  into  a  long  dark- 
Page  16 
ness.  From  the  saddle  of  the  gran- 
ary a  robin  was  flinging  a  liquid 
challenge  to  a  still  sleeping  world. 
The  notes  brought  a  bitter-sweet 
nostalgia.  Impatiently  he  length- 
ened his  stride,  but  stopped  abruptly 
as  the  throb  of  a  motor  broke  the 
morning  stillness. 
Kent  traced  the  sound  as  it 
wound  along  the  rim  of  the  bench- 
land.  That  was  a  private  road 
through  his  field.  He  waited,  pre- 
monition tapping  hard  at  his  tem- 
ples. Against  the  brightening  sky  he 
could  see  the  car  as  it  entered  the 
yard.  A  door  opened  and  a  girl 
stepped  out.  Jean!  The  car  rolled 
back  to  the  gate.  Kent's  long 
fingers  bit  hard  against  the  handle 
of  the  shovel.  Thane  whined  and 
the  girl  came  to  stand  before  him. 
"Good  morning."  There  was  no 
answer;  she  tried  again.  ''Kent, 
I-I-" 
Kent  waited,  his  body  tall  and 
hard  with  tension. 
"Kent— Fve— Fve— oh,  don't  be 
so  stiff." 
"Leaving  was  your  idea,  not 
mine." 
Her  head  raised  in  angry  protest. 
There  was  a  moment  of  throbbing 
silence,  then  her  shoulders  drooped. 
"I  want  to  stay— no,  wait  a  mo- 
ment—for a  while,  Kent.  I  heard 
you  needed  help." 

GRASS  IN  THE  MARKET  PLACE  17 
His  laugh  was  mirthless.    ''1  need  his  attention.    By  the  rapidly  spread- 
a    man.      I    have   a   housekeeper."  ing  light  he  noted  the  rows   that 
"I    know;    but    there   are    many  were  well  soaked,  those  that  were 
things  I  could  do."  not.     He  dammed  certain  furrows 
"Just  what,  besides  daubing  with  and   opened  others.     He   felt  the 
paint  and  griping  about  hard  work?"  sun    on    his    back    and    his    shirt 
She  turned  and  went  to  stand  by  clung  to  him  with  perspiration.    All 
her  bags,  but,  as  he  watched,  the  the  time  his  emotions  were  a  bat- 
stiffness  went  out  of  her.     Slowly  tering  ram  pounding  between  the 
she  came  back.     She  laid  a  hand  past  and  the  present, 
on  his  arm.  Why  had  she  come  back?  Not  be- 
"Won't  you  give  me  a  chance?"  cause  she  was  ready  to  give  up  paint- 
Because  her  touch   was   dry  ice  ing,  he  had  made  certain  of  that 
in  his  veins  he  answered  harshly,  with  one  glance  at  her  bags.     Be- 
''Mrs.  Bates  isn't  up  yet.    You  may  cause  of  love?    She  had  loved  him 
have  the  back  bedroom.    Breakfast  in  the  beginning,   of  that  he  was 
at  six-thirty  as  usual."  sure.    Then  why  hadn't  they  been 
He  whirled,  and  beyond  the  cor-  able  to  make  their  marriage  work? 
ral  he  straddled  the  fence  and  hur-  His  one  brief  year  with  calm  and 
ried  to  where  water,   running  be-  gentle   Barbara,   who   had   died   at 
tween  rows  of  young  beets,  waited  Tim's  birth,  had  not  prepared  him 
DOROTHY  CLAPP  ROBINSON 
Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson,  Boise,  Idaho,  is  well-known  for  her  many 
excellent  contributions  to  the  Church  publications.  Her  short  stories  have  ap- 
peared in  many  other  publications  as  well  and  she  is  an  active  member  and 
past  state  and  chapter  president  of  the  Idaho  Writers'  League. 
Relief  Society  Magazine  readers  will  particularly  remember  Mrs.  Robin- 
son's outstanding  serials:  "Dear  to  the  Heart  of  the  Shepherd  (1939); 
"Cathedral  of  Peace"  (1939-1940);  and  "Forward  Without  Fear"  (1944- 
1945).  Her  short  story  "Though  a  Host  Encamp  Against  Thee"  was  awarded 
third  prize  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest  for  1944.  Her  recent 
contributions  include  "If  You  Will  Drive"  (March  1947)  and  "The  Gift" 
(April  1948).  Her  prose  is  characterized  by  simplicity  and  naturalness  of  ex- 
pression and  the  people  in  her  stories  are  presented  with  such  skill  that  they 
seem  familiar  and  close  to  the  reader.  Mrs.  Robinson  makes  use  of  the 
storied  West  as  a  background  for  her  writings  and  many  of  her  best  com- 
positions are  concerned  with  ranch  families  and  their  problems. 
Mrs.  Robinson  writes  briefly  regarding  her  present  activities:  "Writing 
should  be  classed  as  a  hobby  with  me,  for  it  has  always  been  sandwiched  in 
between  family  responsibilities  and  other  work;  yet  it  has  reached  a  quarter 
million  words  published.  I  hope  to  produce  that  much  more.  Writing  has 
brought  me  many  of  my  most  cherished  contacts  and  deepest  friendships,  but 
Relief  Society  has  been  the  real  love  of  my  life.  I  have  been  an  officer  in  it 
for  twenty  years.  At  present  I  am  education  counselor  on  the  Boise  stake 
board.  We  have  four  daughters,  all  married.  One,  recently  returned  from 
Germany,  lives  in  North  Carolina;  one  is  in  Honolulu;  one  in  Utah,  and  one 
in  Idaho.  Our  son  P.  B.  Robinson,  Jr.  is  at  the  present  serving  in  the  Finnish 
Mission."
