[To Mother Grace Sayre]

Mother could not afford any help. She had to wait on the children, rear her family, and 

6  take care of her home. And, by the way, as I have told you a good many times, I was born just across the street, here, so I feel as if I am back home today. But think of what she went through for the rest of us. She never had time to do some of the things that other women could do, but she devoted herself to her family. I want to tell you there are many homes, and one of them will be that home, where our Heavenly Father continues to bless those who came from them because of the training given by the mother. I congratulate this great organization.
There is no other group like it in the world. The Relief Society ranks higher in cultivation of all the things that are worthwhile than any other world organization. I congratulate you. I wanted to come over here and visit with you just a few minutes and see what you were doing. I feel it is a blessing and a privilege to come and learn that you are preparing now to go on doing the things that will enrich your lives. I would like to emphasize again the fact that brothers and sisters at Bigham City can lay up treasures in heaven, nobody can take from them, if they will devote themselves as far as they can to those Indian children that have had but few opportunities up to now, and help to develop them and encourage them so that our Heavenly Father will be glad to bless. THIS is our Father's work that we are associated with. This Relief Society was organized by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I marvel when I see what a blessing it has been and realize how many people in the world have been blessed by this organization. Again I say thank you for the privilege of being with you today. I pray that the blessings of our Heavenly Father may be with you in your homes. 'Teach your sons and daughters to do their best and not be satisfied with something mediocre, and then you will not only stand at the head of the list as you do now in the United States of America, but you will continue to be at the head of the list all the way down the line under the direction of our Heavenly Father. I pray that the Lord will bless these general officers who give so much of their time to the Relief Society organization, and the stake officers, and ward officers, and every member, that everyone may feel that it has been a wonderful privilege to be born a daughter of God, and to be able to demonstrate appreciation of her blessings by being what he would have her to be. I am sure you are rejoicing under the conditions that exist in your homes; your situations are better than in most places in the world right now, and if we keep the commandments of the Lord, he will guide us and protect and lead 'us, and in due time this will be the celestial kingdom. And _ wonderful and beautiful as this world is now, it will be so much more wonderful because, as the apostle Paul has said: "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him."
Those are promises from our RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS MOTHERS IN ZION 7
Heavenly Father, but I want to say that every blessing is predicated upon obedience to the advice of our - Heavenly Father, and if we are wise, we will not waste any of our time running after the things that perish when we may lay up in heaven those treasures that are eternal and that bring us great happiness. I pray that the Lord may add his blessings, that your conference may conclude with the assurance on the part of each of you that the Lord's Spirit has been with you; that you may take it to your homes wherever they may be, with a determination that with the Lord's help you will earn the blessings that have been promised the faithful. I pray that you and your loved ones will be among those to whom our Heavenly Father will say in his time: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." My prayer is that this may be your blessing, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Re aaionet of Years Norma Wrathall Oh, passing years, that press and hurry so, Leave, leave, I pray, some token of your flight— Beloved music; leaf-strewn paths which hold The feel of autumn on a starlit night; Or when remembered firelight flicked the wall, Dancing like dreams of happy things to be— Leave for each heart such moments, bright and warm, Where clings, undimmed, some cld expectancy! For the lew New Year, Twelve O'clock

Katherine Fernelius Larsen

In the most solemn moment
Of ending and beginning,
Let my thoughts be stark
As January sky—
Unremembering, unforgetting—
Held suspended on a breath
Between a year's birth,
And a year's death.

Let my heart be pure as snow,
Clean as wind from heaven's height;
And my new thoughts lightly go
As sparrows scattered forth in flight.

Let my heart be love-warm, holding
Sacred promise for the year unfolding.