Luacine Savage Clark President Amy Brown Lyman THE Relief Society has lost a staunch and faithful friend and an active and valued worker in the death of Luacine Savage Clark, wife of Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church and former ambassador to Mexico. Sister Clark passed away at her home in Salt Lake City in the early dawn of August 2, 1944, surrounded by the members of her family?her husband, three daughters, and one son, who had tenderly and lovingly ministered to her during the many weeks of her illness. The prayer of her sister workers in Relief Society is that the peace of heaven may come into the hearts of her husband, children, and other loved ones, tempering their sorrow and helping them to find reconciliation. Sister Clark was a daughter of Charles R. And Annie Adkins Savage. From these pioneer parents, natives of England who came to Utah in early days, she received a rich heritage in her many fine attributes of heart and mind. Her father was Utah's pioneer photographer and art dealer, and founder of the annual Old Folks' Day. Her mother, while caring for her home and eleven children, found time to be helpful to her Church, to entertain many friends in her hospitable home, and to be a good neighbor to the needy and sorrowing. Sister Clark was well known for her fine abilities and able leadership. Whether acting as hostess in the LUACINE SAVAGE CLARK ambassadorial mansion in Mexico City or as Relief Society stake president, theology class leader, or visiting teacher, she was equally at home. She was an asset to both her Church and community. A faithful, consistent Latter-day Saint, she gave freely of her time and talents to whatever task was assigned her, whether it was working in an auxiliary organization or contributing as a writer to a Church periodical. Relief Society work was one of her major interests from the age of eighteen. She has served the Society faithfully and efficiently in various capacities. It is a tribute to her example and training that her daughter Marianne, wife of (Continued on page 510) Page 487 Rumania Dr. Leland Hargrave Creer Head of the Department of History and Political Science, University of Utah PART II [This is the second part of the article on Rumania in the series being written by Dr. Creer on the historical background of some of the European countries involved in the present war. The map of Rumania appeared in the August issue of the Magazine. ] Alexander Couza, directed his energies toward the improvement of the social and economic conditions of his people. Between the years 1862 and 186s, he carried through, despite much opposition especially from the aristocratic feudal party, a series of far-reaching reforms, mainly concerned with education and agrarian interests. He founded two universities, one at Jassy and one at Buchatest; he established a number of secondary and technical schools, all of them free, and made elementary education not only gratuitous but nominally compulsory. Despite Couza's efforts, the percentage of illiteracy in Rumania is still very large; in 1920, it was sixty per cent of all people over seven years. Couza solved the agrarian problem by abolishing feudalism. All dues, both in labor and kind, were rescinded, in return for an indemnity advanced to the lords by the state to be repaid in installments to the latter by the peasants; one-third of the land was turned over to the peasants, leaving the remaining two-thirds in possession of the lords. But these measures did not satisfy the peasantry, and today the agrarian problem remains the most serious of all Rumania's domestic difficulties. During the thirty years immediately preceding the outbreak of World War I, no less than five insurrections occurred among the Rumanian peasantry. Page 488 Meanwhile, a_ revolution headed by the opposition succeeded in deposing Couza, in 1866. Hardly a voice was raised for the unhappy prince. Not a drop of blood was shed in his behalf. "He passed silently out of the land for which he had dared much, and seven years later he died in exile." Couza was succeeded by Prince Carol, the second son of the Prince of Hohenzollern - Sigmaringen, the elder and Catholic branch of the Hohenzollerns at Berlin. The new prince at once directed his attention to reforming the government. A liberal constitution was granted in 1866, and, although considerably amended in 1879 and 1884 and still further during the turbulent Twenties following World War I, it was still basically the constitution in operation in Rumania before the period of German occupation. The document provided for a cabinet of nine members who were responsible to the legislature. The latter is bicameral in form, but both chambers RUMANIA are elective. In each case, however, the election is indirect, the elections being made through electoral colleges, composed of the taxpayers who are divided into three colleges, according to the amount of taxes paid. This, of course, confines the suffrage to the wealthier classes. The Senate consists of 120 members, who must be at least forty years of age and possess an income of 376 pounds a year, and their term of office is for eight years. The Chamber of Deputies consists of 183 members, who are elected for four years and must be at least twenty-five years of age, Despite this quasi democratic form of government described above, the tendency in Rumania, as well as in all the other Balkan states, has been toward autocracy. Perhaps the absence of adequate middle classes and insufficient popular education, together with the continued intrigue of foreign powers which has served as a constant threat to the very existence of the Balkan nationalities themselves, has mitigated against the growth of democratic institutions. As one authority puts it: Each government seemed to acquire a majority of seats with a minority of votes, and sooner or later they all relapsed into some form of dictatorship. Kings and courts and armies came into their own again, and with a minimum of popular opposition. Dictatorships were set up in Yugoslavia in 1929-31, in Bulgaria in 1935, in Greece in 1936, and in Rumania in 1938. (Age of Conflict, P- 353) From a social and economic standpoint, the long reign of Prince Carol (1866-1914) was one of marked improvement and prosperity. A few notable examples will suffice. In. Of World War I. 489 1866, there did not exist a single railway in the state; in 1912, 3690 kilometers had been constructed. The export of cereals in 1866 was less than 500,000 tons; in 1913, it amounted to 1,320,235. Of petroleum, the production in 1866 was 5.915 tons; in 1912, it was 2,000,000. The total state budget in 1866 was 56,000,000 francs; in 1912, it was more than 500,000,000, In the Russo-Turkish War (1877-78), the Rumanian army numbered 40,000; in World War I, it was more than 1,000,000. The external trade of the country, consisting mainly of oil and cereals, in 1912 amounted to more than 50,000,000 francs, and exceeded that of all the other Balkan states together. The interesting point is that most of this foreign trade was with the Central Powers. In 1912, for example, imports from the United Kingdom totaled less than 2,000,000 francs; from Germany and Austria-Hungary they amounted to more than 13,000,000. The analysis of Rumania's foreign trade statistics indicates eloquently enough the orientation of Rumanian foreign policy before the outbreak On more than One occasion, King Carol unmistakably demonstrated his sympathies for the Central Powers?Germany and Austria. This accounts for the secret adherence of Rumania to the Triple Alliance (Germany, Austria, and Italy), concluded in 1883 and 1889. The alliance provided, in substance, that if Rumania or Austria were attacked without Provocation on their part by Russia, the two contracting powers would mutually assist one another against the aggressor. Should a third party intervene (notably France), 490 Germany and Italy were obligated to support the contracting powers. 'This new Quadruple Agreement was renewed from time to time. The last renewal took place on February 5, 1913, when the agreement was extended to July 8, 1920, and explains, largely, the neutral position of Rumania during the first two years of World War I (1914-16). Over and against this Rumanian-German solidarity of interests were three important factors which threatened, and finally did succeed, in winning Rumania away from the Triple Alliance into the concert of Allied Powers known as the Triple Entente (England, Russia, and France). These were: (1) the Hungarian-Magyar policy toward Transylvania; (2) the Austrian support of Bulgaria's position against Rumania at the outbreak of the Second Balkan War (1913); and (3) the Russo-Serb wooing to win Rumania away from the Triple Alliance, by suggesting and sponsoring the so-called Balkan League, directed primarily against Turkey. During the Second Balkan War (1913), Rumania became an ally of Serbia, Greece, and Montenegro against Bulgaria and Turkey, both later allies of Germany and Austria. Asa result of this conflict, Rumania added 2,687 square miles of territory in the region known as Dobrudja, with a population of 286,000, entirely at the expense, of course, of Bulgaria. This included the important fortress of Silistria on the Black Sea. At the outbreak of World War I in , Rumania, officially friendly to Germany, hesitated to enter the war on the side of the Central Powers. True, the coveted districts ? of Transylvania and Bukovina were in the hands of the Hapsburgs, but the equally coveted province of Bessarabia was held by Russia. 'Then, too, the sympathies of the masses unmistakably were for their Latin neighbors France and Italy. 'The question was: "Could Rumania hope, either by diplomacy or by war, to achieve the complete reunion of the Rumanian people?" This was the coveted goal. The issue was decided largely through the death of King Carol in 1914. With the king's passing, there was eliminated the strongest pro-German force within the kingdom. On August 27, 1916, Rumania, after two years of strict neutrality, declared war upon Austria and Germany. By secret treaty with England, Russia, Italy, and France, she was promised Transylvania from Hungary, Bukovina from Austria, and the Banat of Temesvar from Hungary. But within four months, German armies under Generals Mackensen and Falkenhayn conquered practically all of Rumania and then, on May 27, 1918, forced upon the hapless people the humiliating Treaty of Bucharest. Its terms granted the Central Powers a monopoly of Rumanian grain and oil for a period of thirty years. Hungary secured a frontier along the Carpathians which would secure her from a future Rumanian attack. The ports of Constanta, Giurgiu, and Turnu-Severin, all on the Black Sea and the Danube River, were leased to Germany and Austria-Hungary. The Dobrudja, though claimed by Bulgaria, was allotted to the joint administration of the four allied powers?Germany, Austria - Hungary, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Bessarabia, alone, was permitted to join herself to the Rumanian state. Such was the cruel treaty of Bucharest, disastrous to Rumania, destructive of her economic and political independence, deeply humiliating to her pride.
Yet, despite the misfortune of Rumania in 1916, she not only recovered her losses through the postwar treaties of Versailles, Saint Germain, Trianon, and Neuilly, but more than doubled her territorial area by adding Transylvania from Hungary, Bukovina and the Banat of Temesvar from Austria, and Bessarabia from Russia. Thus in 1920, for the first time since the brilliant conquests of Michael the Brave (1593-1601), a Rumanian state which included all Rumanians had been created. However, this great achievement was destined to be short-lived, for, within twenty years, the new state was undone by the second conquest of the Germans who reimposed a second and more onerous Treaty of Bucharest upon the hapless Rumanians in 1939.
THIS twenty-year interim between the First and Second World Wars is extremely complicated, and yet highly important and prophetic of the future of the new Rumania. The following trends of development are noted: