Vol No. Back to School THE month of September is ''back to school" month. How grateful we should be that, even though
our nation is at war, its school doors will be opened as usual and the nation's children will be offered opportunities for scholastic training similar to those afforded in normal times. Our schools, like all other institutions, have felt the impact of the war, but they have managed to
maintain a normal school year, a capable teaching staff, and have offered standard courses of study? in some instances, even accelerated educational programs. Education has traditionally been viewed with veneration by the American public. The development of our school system and the support given our schools on the elementary, secondary, and college levels by hundreds
of thousands of Americans, attest the faith of the people of this nation in the power of the schools to be of benefit to them. One of the unfortunate effects of the war has been the interruption in the school training of many of our boys and girls. Some of this has been unavoidable, but, in too many instances, it as been due to our youth and their parents failing to take a long-range view of the importance of scholastic training, and to their yielding to the pressures and inducements of wartime. According to the Page 508 Children's Bureau, thousands of children under fourteen years of age, for whom there is no official count, are known to have left school to work, while high school enrollment has dropped one million during the war and is becoming progressively more serious. The availability of jobs many of which do not contribute
directly to the war effort or to the development of the worker? accompanied by high wages has been the magnet which has drawn great numbers of our boys and girls from the school room, many of whom are working in violation of child labor and compulsory school-attendance
laws, many teen-age boys and girls are children of the depression. They and their parents remember when jobs were hard to get, and they are fearful of a lack of jobs when the war
is over. They feel they had better work while jobs are plentiful and that school can wait. Others believe it is a patriotic duty to leave school and go to work, while still others, impressed with the accent given the war and its related activities, have lost sight of, or have even come to
doubt, the importance of regular school attendance. Latter-day Saints believe in education
and the great opportunities for development and advancement afforded by the schools, and they encourage school attendance. It is realized that economic need and defense labor needs may require some boys and girls to work during the coming year, and that for some young people work experience may have significant education value. It is also realized that for many young people scholastic training beyond the secondary schools may not be desirable or possible. Nevertheless, the vast majority of our youth should be in school.
Parents are urged to take a long range view of the needs of their children. All the education and training they can get will be needed to fit them for the postwar world. Their future welfare and the strength of the nation are in large measure bound up with the wise use of school opportunities. If our children are to be equipped for tomorrow, they should go to school today.
The Framers of the Constitution
SEPTEMBER 17 of each year has been set aside as Constitution Day. It was 157 years ago this September 17 that, after four months of tedious and laborious planning, work, and the acceptance of compromises, the Constitution of the United States was signed by thirty-nine of the fifty-five delegates to the convention, thus probably averting anarchy in the Thirteen States.
The convention held its meetings in that long, banked-up, Philadelphia, Independence Hall, where, eleven years before, the immortal Declaration of Independence had been published to the world. Seven of the delegates had been signers of the Declaration of Independence. All were "respectable for family and for personal qualities?men who had been well educated and had done something whereby to earn recognition in these troubled times." Twentysix were graduates of a university?Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, William and Mary, Oxford, and St. Andrews. Twenty-nine were university men, and among these were George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. John Adams and Thomas Jefferson were in Europe at the time, so they were not among the delegates. George Washington was chosen as president of the convention. Franklin was eighty-one years of age; the youngest man present was Jonathan Dayton of New Jersey, twenty-six years old. The brilliant Alexander Hamilton was thirty, and James Madison, named the "Father of the Constitution," was forty-six. He was sweet tempered with a sly manner, but he held his power of leadership by reason of his intelligence, industry, and integrity which no man ever questioned.
On May 28 when the delegates of the thirteen states had arrived, the doors were locked and each man was sworn to utter secrecy as to the deliberations. What was said and done therein was not revealed until fifty years had passed and James Madison, the last survivor of those who attended the convention, had died?then the journal of the 510 proceedings which he had kept was published. The outcome of the convention was always in grave doubt, as was also the program to be followed. At the outset, Washington arose and, in solemn and moving tones, uttered those immortal words: It is too probable that no plan we propose will be adopted. Perhaps another conflict is to be sustained. If, to please the people, we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterward defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God. Various proposals were considered and three great compromises accepted which laid the foundations of our Federal Constitution. It was Franklin who suggested a daily opening prayer. After nearly four months of tedious toil in the boiling heat of a Philadelphia summer, representatives from twelve-states signed the document. It is said that many members seemed awestruck at what had been accomplished. Washington sat with his head bowed in meditation. The scene was ended by a characteristic observation of Franklin. When Washington arose from his chair, Franklin, pointing to it, uttered this remarkable prophecy: As I have been sitting here all these weeks, I have often wondered whether yonder sun is rising or setting. But now I know that it is a rising sun! It was these fifty-five men of whom
the Lord spoke when he said, And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this
very purpose. ? (Doc. & Gov. Sec. 101:80). Let all honor be given these men on September 17, 1944; and on this day? again a day of crisis in our national affairs, let men of such calibre be sought for diligently? the honest and wise of our great and beloved. M.C.S.