Literature New Testament Lesson 3?New Testament Parables For Tuesday, December 19, 1944 EVERY successful teacher from the long ago down to the present has used apt stories to make lessons live. Through a well-chosen, well told story, truth can be lifted from the abstract to the concrete, can be made a living reality for the clearer. More than this, lessons taught with the help of good stories, as all can attest, are most likely to be remembered. Think here of the ancient Aesop, who?legend has it?was a teacher in old Greece. His name is everlastingly linked with classic fables handed down through the ages. Whether all or any of these quaint tales were created by him is an open question; but the tales themselves have certainly both entertained and uplifted thousands upon thousands through the centuries. Their great help has come from the fact that each of them impresses its "moral" ?a practical bit of tested wisdom. Story and moral in these old-time tales are inseparably connected. To suggest one is to recall the other. For example, to say, "Beware of flatterers" brings to mind the fable of the crow who lost a piece of cheese to a wily fox. Or to call back the tale of the boy who played a mean trick by crying, "Wolf! Wolf!" is to remind one of its sequel, "A liar isn't believed even when he does tell the truth." In these fables, many of which are accredited to Aesop, is a helpful heritage. Another type of story, often employed by teachers of long ago, and even used in these days to impress the truth, is the parable. While this kind of story, in common with the fable, helps to vitalize or make concrete life lessons, it differs from the fable in certain basic respects. Usually, the "moral" of the fable can be put in a simple sentence; for illustration, those cited above, or, for further example, the story of the Sun and the Wind, which impresses the truth: Kindness is stronger than force. With the parable, particularly those of the New Testament, it is not usually possible to reduce its inner meaning to such terse terms. Our most profound parables bear messages of deep spiritual meaning. Parable implies parallel or comparison. Generally, it tells a story which presents in concrete, easily understood, comparative form, the principles of truths to be illuminated. Often it begins with such an expression as "like unto," or "it may be likened unto." If the life lesson it portrays requires further emphasis, it may take an explanation, rather than merely a terse sentence, to make its inner meaning plain. All this is clearly illustrated in the following excerpt from the Gospel according to St. Luke (Chap. 8: 415). And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable: A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring forth no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. Here the Master not only tells why he often taught in parables; but he gives an excellent example of this type of story, which parallels the basic truths of life he would ? impress on his hearers. This famed "Parable of the Sower," recorded not only by Luke, but by Matthew and Mark, illuminates not only the work of the teacher of the gospel, and its varied results, but that of every teacher. How gratifying would be our work if more of the seeds of righteousness might fall on good ground and bring forth one hundredfold! Another of the well-known parables of the Savior?one that seems to radiate his central message to the world?is that of the "Talents" (Matthew 25:14-30). For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. This parable, as the reader will recall, goes on to tell how the servant with five talents put them to use and doubled them; likewise the one who had been given two, by using them, gained two more. But the servant that had received only one talent, hid it in the earth. After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. And when the reports were given, the two that had put their talents to use and increased them, received these words of commendation from their master: Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. For the slothful servant, who, full LESSON DEPARTMENT of excuses, had failed in his opportunity, there was not only a severe rebuke, but his talent was taken away and given to the one who had ten talents. Then came from the Master this statement: For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not Shall be taken away even that which he hath, A central Purpose of this impressive parable is to drive home the truth: To save our Spiritual gifts, we must use them, As 4 lamp has light only when it gives light, so one possesses the spirit of the gospel only as one radiates the gospel spirit. Further, the more one gives of the gospel light or spirit, the more of it one has. The best things of this life can be kept and increased only as they are shared, This parable impresses one of the central lessons of life taught and exemplified by our Savior: "He that findeth his life Shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it," Another well-known and much loved parable is that of "The Good Samaritan" (See Luke 10:25-37), Throughout the Gospels are other profound parables, used by the Master to illuminate basic principles of true religion. Like sound apples, attractive and wholesome, these precious Stories bear seeds of everlasting truth. Their content and lessons are drawn from simple, understandable things of life. They deal with nature, with the common Occupations?as that of the farmer, 543 the fisherman, the shepherd. Their appeal is universal; their effect, everlasting. From the viewpoint of their place in literature, Dr. Charles A. Dinsmore says: How great an artist further attested in his parables, They have been packed into a Space so small! The characters are sketched, and even their de. Hey are taken from therefore true to life and nature. These stories of such high artistry, radiating light and truth, are a most Precious part of our literary and gospel heritage, Everyone will do well to get closer to them and treasure them. Discussion and Activities 1. Recall some well-known fable, as The Lion and the Mouse," "The Lark in the Cornfield," "The Man, His Son and the Donkey," "The Dog With a Piece of Meat." Tel] each story briefly and give its moral.? 2. Be prepared to give briefly any one of the following or some other New Testament parable: "The Tares in the Field" (Mait. 13:24-30); "The Ten Virgins" (Matt. '25:1-13); "The Parable of the Vineyard"' (Mark 12:1-11); "The Lost "" (Luke 15:3-10); "The Prodigal Son" (Luke 15:11-32). Explain briefly the spiritual lesson of the parable you select. 3. (a) What vital value is there in a - good fable or an apt parable for the teach. Er? (b) In what one thing are these two types of stories alike? How are they basically different? 1/Dinsmore, Charles A., The English Bible as Literature?Houghton Mufflin Co, 2/ Jacob, Aesop's Fables, ?or Some other good edition. Many of the fables of Aesop are to be found in children's readers, 544 4. (a) Be ready to join with your class in making a list of ten or more of the classic parables of the Savior. (b) Give two reasons why this Master Teacher frequently used the parable. 5. (a) What inspiration for teachers today is there in his use of this kind of ? story? (b) Recall same apt parable or analogy you have heard a successful teacher use to make a lesson come to life. Note: See the article ?Types of New Testament Literature," by Dr. Russel Swensen, in this issue of the Magazine, page 483.