Traditions and Customs of the Navajo Indians By Lucy Guymon Bloomfield. As a general rule the things which we devote our lives to naturally become the things which we are most interested in, or the things which claim our greatest interest. With me the first is being happy with my mate and being a good mother to my children, but second to this is my life among the Navajo Indians, where I live. Consequently, I have bubbled over with some of the things I am interested in, and am passing them on with a sincere wish that they may be of interest to others, and that they may have a bearing on the lesson, "A day of redemption for the Lamanites." I have spent twelve years on the reservation, eight of which I have been associated with the Indians nearly every day. We keep a store in the trading post. To most of us, I guess, this sounds like a barren desert, a dirt floor and a pole roof, but not so with us. We are very happy in our little rock house with the lovely mountain spring of water piped in and vines growing everywhere. I have had the privilege of attending the Indian "Yabachi" and "Fire Dances" and have been present at their sand paintings and many of their religious ceremonies. The "Natanie," or big chief, lives near us in his adobe house of two rooms and we (my husband and I) have spent a great many evenings at his home listening to him relate legends and traditions of his people. All he needs is an occasional grunt, "Lah," and he will spin you yarns of the past far into the night. And it is a poor listener, indeed, who is not carried away with his weird tales. It was especially interesting to hear him relate the tradition oi many summers ago. "How many?" we asked. "Hodela, agasie, nizadie," he answered, which means, "Don't know; very far back." He told us of a time when this land was all smooth, only small hills, no mountains. Then of three days, showing us on his fingers, that it was dark and no sun and much lightning. Fire broke out of the earth; big mountains came up and many people were killed and covered up. Of course, this is very plain to us as being the time when the Savior was crucified. He also told us of a time when the water was so deep that it covered everything. TRADITIONS AND CUSTOMS OF NAVAJO INDIANS 391 showing plainly to us that they have the tradition of the flood. I said, "Maybe some preacher told you about that." He said, "No," his great, great, great grandfathers knew about it, and just told it from father to son. I believe there is no people on earth, who have a stronger belief in an all-powerful, unseen power than they. Some people are prone to make fun of their religious ceremonies, but when you understand them enough to know it is their way of seeking Divine help, it is very poor taste to ridicule them. I have been led to make comparisons between their methods and ours. When I was privileged to receive certain blessings while at my mother's, in, Provo, just before the birth of my last baby, September 29, 1919, my faith was strong that through the combined faith of all I would receive a blessing, and good health and my beautiful baby are proof. I could not help comparing it with a ceremony the Indians have similar to our washing and anointing. They take a little cub bear, and, after gathering the pollen from the corn, sprinkle it all over the body of the little bear, praying all the time in a very weird way and making signs. Then they gather all this pollen up very carefully, which they have saved, on a clean piece of cloth, put it into a little buckskin bag with the clay image of a little bear, and use it to anoint their wives and children with to keep them well and to keep all evil spirits away from them. They have a theory of the transmigration of souls, and will not touch the body of the bear except for the above mentioned ceremony as they believe that the spirit of the bear is that of a bad, immoral man and the coyote has the spirit of a woman who was immoral while here on this earth. I do not think that our particular way of approaching the Lord is the only way of being heard; for instance, I will tell you of their fire dance and why they had it. A young wife gave birth to a baby and was left in a condition that the agency doctor said that only an operation of a serious nature would cure her. I talked with her mother about it, and she said she believed if they had a fire dance and got the medicine man to use some of his rnedicine and everybody pray, she would get well without the white doctor's operating. They have a very natural horror of surgery. Well, they had the fire dance at a cost of about five hundred dollars. I attended the ninth and last night of the dance, and I tell you when they led that girl out before the two thousand assembled Navajos and placed her on a rug for the final 392 ceremony, you could have heard a pin drop so solemn and quiet it was. The leading medicine man then prayed, not in our way, but with weird chants and incantations, that all kinds of sickness should leave her body. He anointed her head, then with a whoop and an upward fling of his arms, he commanded the evil or sick spirit to leave and go up in the monstrous fire. I could not help feeling with them that they would get results. The girl got well and strong, and has since given birth to another baby. I saw her just before coming to Provo, and she was the picture of health. Who are we to say the Lord did not hear and answer their prayers? Along with their belief in an unseen power for good is a strong belief or superstition in an evil power which they call "Chindies," or devils. I attended a sing and sand painting in behalf of a man who was supposed to have some of these "Chindies" in him. The ceremony was very impressive, and was carried on with reverence and seriousness. The prayers and songs were that the evil spirits would leave his body and go out at the top of the hogan, or house, and never return. I suppose it was Christian Science applied. At any rate he got relief. I have never met a Navajo yet who does not have a belief in these unseen powers. They have a remnant of sacrifice as is proven by their custom of going up into the mountain and praying for rain and throwing some of their much valued turquois in the mountain spring as a sacrifice. They did this once and it rained so hard that it washed their cornfields away. Was it just a happen-so? They have myriads of silly superstitions with no more foundation than some of ours. For instance, they believe if an owl hoots near a hogan, it is the sign of death in the near future. Most of us can remember how it sent shivers up our spine a to meaning hear to a us. Dog howl under our window' at night, death Considering their way of living with no records or written language, we find them a good people, even ahead of us in some things. They are in the main, even in these degenerate days, a moral people, the family relations are sacred to them, and divorce is not prevalent to any extent. The government schools established at different places on the reservation are doing much good along the line of education and of changing and improving their customs. The Indian boys seem to profit more by their schooling than do the girls. With few exceptions the girls resort to the squaw dress as soon as they return to their reservation homes, while TRADITIONS AND CUSTOMS OF NAVAJO INDIANS 3 8 the boys still wear ready-made clothing, often having suits made to order. It is an undeniable fact that any one at all acquainted with the Indians can pick out the ones who have been to school, and it will not take many generations of schooling to put the Indian on an equal footing with the rest of the world intellectually. They are naturally bright and quick to learn. It takes a quick wit to beat an Indian at a trade or, as they call it, a "swap." They are taking very kindly to modern conveniences. It has been my privilege to order the things they want, my husband turning over that branch of the business to me. I have sold them trunks, beds, handbags, large mirrors, coffee percolators, ranges, dishes, suit cases, etc. I have sold my own sewing machine three times. Many of them have rock, log and adobe houses, instead of the pole and mud hogan of a few years back. They are improving their flocks and herds by introducing better grades all the time. The government is helping them by furnishing pure bred rams, and then taking a per cent of the lamb crop for pay, just enough to pay expenses. Improvement through intermarriage with the whites will have to be done in a far different way than it is at the present, before much improvement will result. The majority of cases of my acquaintance are just "Squaw men" affairs, which do not tend to improve the morals. Intermarriage of the proper kind could result in much improvement. I know of one case where the third generation removed from a squaw mother resulted in two beautiful light-haired, blue-eyed children. Some of the best friends I have in the world are Navajos. I find them just like white people, good, bad and indifferent. Some are perfectly honest while others are crooks. By comparing their condition now with what it was when I first knew them, eighteen years ago, I can see a marked improvement, and am fully convinced that time will see them become the white and delightsome people we know they are destined to become. We read in second Nephi: "The gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them, and they shall rejoice, for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God, and the scales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes, and many generations shall not pass away among them save they shall be a white and delightsome people." Toadlena, New Mexico.