OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 417 Women As Fire Lookouts. Women forest fire lookouts in Oregon forests proved so successful that a large number will be employed for this summer's work. In 1919 five women were employed at high stations in the forest to report by telephone any indications of fire. Each of the women lived alone, camping out in the open a great part of the summer. Next summer the forest service will employ forty additional fire patrols, and many of them are expected to be women. Women in the Churches. Women are still knocking at the doors of the churches for equality in holding what priestly rights accrue in such churches. The Presbyterian church is still debating the report of the special committee on whether women should hold official positions in the church organizations. While the Methodist conference of May 9th is also wrestling with the woman problem. It is impossible to find sufficient men to fill country pulpits with the present wage scale for country pastors, and the problem is a very lively and up-to-date one. How these people thrash around in the dark without the light of the Gospel to guide them on their way! Baby Week in East India. Maternity and infant welfare exhibition was held in Delhi, India, in February, at which the proper care of mothers and babies was shown by means of models, charts, slides, pictures, leaflets, lectures, etc. The topics discussed were: pre-maternity, maternity, infant welfare, childhood, domestic hygiene and sanitation, first aid, and home nursing. A baby show day was also held on which more than 2,000 babies were presented. Swiss Women Forge Ahead. (From Liverpool Post.) Mile. Marie Prodhom, who has been appointed director of the Bank of Geneva, and will sign the notes and script issued by that bank, is only 28 years of age. She proved herself an excellent financier during the war, and is the first woman in Europe to hold such an important position. There are now two judges, nine barristers, three engineers and a number of university professors and doctors of the fair sex in Switzerland. The Eugenic Bearing of Taxation. Assessment of an income tax by dividing the total income 418 of a family among all the members, old or young, and taxing each separately, is recommended by a committee of the Eugenics Education Society, (London), headed by the president, Leonard Darwin, which has been submitted to Parliament. As a conclusion to the discussion, which is printed in the January, 1920, Eugenics Review, Major Darwin prints the following summary: "Taxation should fall on parents and on the childless in proportion to their ability to bear the strain. To make the incidence of the income tax just, the amount thus now obtained from the childless should be increased and that from parents decreased, the transfer of wealth thus affected should bear some relationship to the income taxed, and consideration should be given to the distinction between wealth which has been won by the individual taxed and wealth which he has inherited. Smaller incomes being less taxed, to allow the family income to count as several separate incomes would produce the desired differential result, though, in order not to diminish the revenue, the rate per pound would have to be raised in all grades. If such a reform cannot now be fully adopted, the principles involved should, we urge, be authoritatively sanctioned, and when in the future taxation can be lowered, it should first be materially lowered on parents before any burden is taken off the childless. The winning of a moderate income by their own work, the saving and conversion into capital of some of this income, a saving needing care and self-sacrifice, the preservation of this capital in succeeding generations in consequence of thrift, temperance, and perseverance these have been different steps in the history of the part of the nation which would be affected by such a reform. Where any of these conditions exist, there the stock must generally be sound, and the nation demands a relatively more rapid multiplication of its soundest stocks."