GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 427 to their truth to principle, their adherence to the pure moral code of Jesus. Have you learned how to undress your thoughts? Better begin that helpful exercise tonight, or the very next time you get a fit of depression, and just take yourself in hand. Drive out the evil thoughts after stripping off all their disguises, and then exercise your will to keep them out. Recite hymns, over and over, tell yourself you won't allow such impulses to guide you, that you are determined to be true, generous, kind, noble, and pure; that you are not altogether bad nor are you very badly treated, either. Then, in a few days, you will have it all to do over again. But that is what Christ meant when he said, "Leave us not in temptation, but deliver us from all evil." Guide Lesson Suggestions Moths and Economy in Clothing (We give here two articles well adapted for lessons during the month of August. A list of questions are added for convenience, although class leaders are at liberty to arrange the material as best suited to their needs.) THE TRUE CLOTHES MOTHS. Introduction. The destructive work of the larvae of the small moths commonly known as clothes moths, and also as carpet moths, fur moths, etc., in woolen fabrics, fur, and similar material during the warm months of summer in the north, and at any season in the south, is an altogether too common experience. The preference they so often show for woolen or fur garments gives these insects a much more general interest than perhaps any other household pest. The little yellowish or buff-colored moths sometimes seen flitting about rooms, attracted to lamps at night, or dislodged from infested garments or partiers, are themselves harmless enough, and in fact, their mouth parts are rudimentary, and no food whatever is taken in the winged state. The destruction occasioned by these pests is, therefore, limited entirely to the feeding, or larval, stage. The killing of the moths by the aggrieved housekeeper, while usually based on the wrong inference that they are actually engaged in eating her woolens, is, nevertheless, a most valuable proceeding, because it checks in so much the multiplication of the species, which is the sole duty of the adult insect. Three common destructive species of clothes moths occur 428 in this country. Much confusion, however, exists in all the early writings on these insects, all three species being inextricably mixed in the descriptions and accounts of habits. Collections of these moths were submitted some years ago by Professors Fernald and Riley to Lord Walsingham, of Merton Hall, England, the world's authority on time and from the latter's careful diagnosis it is now possible to separate and recognize the different species easily. The common injurious clothes moths are the case-making species, the webbing species, or southern clothes moths, and the gallery species, or tapestry moth. A few other species, which normally infest animal products, may occasionally also injure woolens, but are not of sufficient importance to be noted here. The Case-Making Clothes Moth. The case-making clothes moth is the only species which constructs for its protection a true transportable case. It was characterized by Limmeaus, and carefully studied by Reaumur, early in the last century. Its more interesting habits have caused it to be often a subject of investigation, and its life history will serve to illustrate the habits of all the clothes moths. The moth expands about half an inch, or from ten to fourteen millimeters. Its head and forewings are grayish yellow, with indistinct fuscous spots on the middle of the wings. The hind wings are white or grayish and silky. It is the common species in the north, being widely distributed and very destructive. Its larva feeds on woolens, carpets, etc., and is one generation annually, the moths appearing from June to August; and, on the authority of Prof. Fernald, even in rooms kept uniformly heated night and day it never occurs in the larval state in winter. In the south, however, it appears from January to October, and has two or even more broods annually. The larvae is a dull white caterpillar, with the head and the upper part of the next segment light brown, and is never seen free from its movable case or jacket, the construction of which is its first task. If it be necessary for it to change its position, the head and first segment are thrust out of the case, leaving the legs free, with which it crawls, dragging its case after it to any suitable situation. With the growth of the larvae it becomes necessary from time to time to enlarge the case, both in length and circumference, and this is accomplished in a very interesting way. Without leaving its case the larva makes a slit halfway down one side and inserts a triangular gore of new material. A similar insertion GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 429 is made on the opposite side, and the larva reverses itself without leaving the case and makes corresponding slits and additions in the other half. The case is lengthened by successive additions to either end. Exteriorly the case appears to be a matted mass of small particles of wool; interiorly it is lined with soft whitish sild. By transferring the larva from time to time to fabrics of different colors the case may be made to assume as varied a pattern as the experimenter desires, and will illustrate, in its coloring, the peculiar method of making the enlargements and additions described. On reaching full growth the larva attaches its case by silken threads to the garments or other material upon which it has been feeding, or sometimes carries it long distances. In one instance numbers of them were noticed to have scaled a fifteen-foot wall to attach their cases in an angle of the cornice of the ceiling. It undergoes its transformations to the chrysalis within the larva case, and under normal conditions the moth emerges three weeks later, the chrysalis having previously worked partly out of the larval case to facilitate the escape of the moth. The later has an irregular flight and can also run rapidly. It has a distinct aversion to light, and usually conceals itself promptly in garments or crevices whenever it is frightened from its resting place. The moths are comparatively short lived, not long surviving the deposition of their eggs for a new generation of destructive larvae. The eggs are minute, not easily visible to the naked eye, and are commonly placed directly on the material which is to furnish the larvae with food. In some cases they may be deposited in the crevices of trunks or boxes, the newly hatched larvae entering through these crevices. In working in feathers this insect occasionally causes a felting very similar to that produced by the black carpet beetle. The protection afforded by the seclusion of this insect in houses does not prevent its having insect enemies, and at least two hymenopterous parasites have been reared in this country from its larval cases. These are both reared from specimens collected in Michigan. Remedies. There is no easy method of preventing the damage done by clothes moths, and to maintain the integrity of woolens or other materials which they are likely to attack demands constant vigilance, with frequent inspection and treatment. In general, they are likely to affect injuriously only articles which are put away and left undisturbed for some little time. Articles in daily or weekly use, and apartments frequently 430 aired and swept, or used as living rooms, are not apt to be seriously affected. Carpets under these conditions are rarely attacked, except sometimes around the borders, where the insects are not so much disturbed by walking and sweeping. Agitation, such as beating, shaking, or brushing, and exposure to air and sunlight, are old remedies and still among the best at command. Various repellents, such as tobacco, camphor, naphthaline cones or balls, and cedar chips or sprigs, have a certain value if the garments are not already stocked with larvae. The odors of these repellents are so disagreeable to the parent moths that they are not likely to come to deposit their eggs as long as the odor is strong. As the odor weakens, the protection decreases, and if the eggs or larvae are already present, these odors have no effect on their development; while if the moths are enclosed with the stored material to be protected by these repellents, so that they cannot escape, they will be little, if at all restricted. After woolens have been given a vigorous and thorough treatment and aired and exposed to sunlight, however, it is of some advantage in packing them away to enclose with them any of the repellents mentioned. Cedar chests and wardrobes are of value in proportion to the freedom of the material from infestation when stored away; but, as the odor of the wood is largely lost with age, in the course of but a few years the protection greatly decreases. Furs and such garments may also be stored in boxes or trunks which have been lined with heavy tar paper used in buildings. New papering should be given to such receptacles every year or two. Similarly, the tarred paper moth bags obtainable at dry goods houses are of some value; always, however, the materials should first be subjected to the treatment outlined above. To protect carpets, clothes, and cloth-covered furniture, furs, etc., these should be thoroughly beaten, shaken, brushed, and exposed as long as practicable to the sunlight in early spring, either in April, May, or June, depending on the latitude. The brushing of garments is a very important consideration, to remove the eggs or young larvae which might escape notice. Such material can then be hung away in clothes closets, which have been thoroughly cleaned and, if necessary, sprayed with benzine about the cracks of the floor and the baseboards. If no other protection be given, the garments should be examined at least once a month during summer, brushed, and if necessary, exposed to the sunlight. It would be more convenient, however, so to inclose or GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 431 wrap up such material as to prevent the access of the moths to it, after it has once been thoroughly treated and aired. This can be aflfected easily in the case of clothing and furs by wrapping tightly in stout paper or inclosing in well-made bags of cotton or linen cloth or strong pape::. Dr. L. O. Howard has adopted a plan which is inexpensive, and which he has found eminently satisfactory. For a small sum he secures a number of the large pasteboard boxes, such as tailors use, and in these packs away all winter clothing, gumming a strip of wrapping paper around the edge, so as to seal up the box completely and leave no cracks. These boxes with care will last many years. With thorough preliminary treatment it will not be necessary to use the tar-impregnated paper sacks sold as moth protectors, which may be objectionable on account of the odor. In the case of furniture or carriages, covered or lined with woolen cloth, stored or left unused for the summer, examination and thorough brushing should be given at least monthly. Spraying monthly with benzine or naphtha or sponging with dilute corrosive sublimate has been recommended, but due regard should be given to the inflammability of these sprays and to the poisonous nature of the corrosive sublimate. QUESTIONS. What are clothes moths? How can you protect woolens and furs from moths? What is the chief danger with carpet moths? Describe remedies easy to procure and use for moths in carpets; in woolens; in feathers; in furs. What can you say about cold storage? U. S. Department of Agriculture and State Agricultural College Co-operating. Suggestions for Clothing Economy. The popular appeal for the conservation of clothing is giving every housewife a chance to show her ability to utilize all her resources. It means that she must bring forth from hiding places, from the attic and storeroom every usable scrap of wool, cotton, silk and linen to be utilized in making over necessary clothing or useful articles in the household. Instead of wasting or burning old rags that are soiled, wash them, take the best of them for floor mops, dusters, cloths for wiping window panes, and for dish rags; remaining parts may be worked up into mattresses, carpets, or rugs, or may be sold by the pound to factories where there is a call for such, or turned over to relief organizations. Cast off articles of clothing must be redeemed by cleaning and converting them into underwear, aprons, dresses, suits, coats, hats, or other possibilities. Many times new creations are made by holding pieces of cloth up to the model and thus a style is afforded with little effort or planning. The pieces are pinned in place, the lines marked with crayon, and cut, allowing for seams. New styles of trimming are then planned by designing and cutting paper to fit the required proportions. From plain cuff and collar patterns, new styles may be made by altering the outer line by means of simple curves or squares, leaving the neck line unchanged unless cutting to make lower or to add a piece which fits closer to the neck. Whether working up new or old cloth, avoid the use of superfluous material in unnecessary ruffles, pleats, fulness, overskirts, large collars, cuffs, or belts, and in unneeded trimmings. Do not use new material when old will do, and avoid the making of novelty styles which can be worn little. Combine the plain cloth with plaids, stripes, figured goods, or with clashing contrasts of color. Sleeves, cuffs, collars, belts and false hems of one kind of material provide economy allowances, if used with other suitable kinds of fabrics. In making over old blankets, cut away the threadbare parts, use the best pieces and make smaller blankets, or use for inner linings of jackets and coats. Carefully darn or patch old knit woolens, catching up the lost stitches. Make over into children's underwear. Sew plain seams with the sewing machine, open them flat and stitch on both sides to prevent raveling. Dampen the seams and press them on the wrong side. Raw edges, such as found in the neck, armholes, and the bottoms of skirts, may be finished with the blanket stitch, overcasting, an edge of crochet, or stitched one or more times with the sewing machine. To prevent shine appearing on the surface of woven woolens, brush daily with a stiff brush in a circular movement. To remove shine, sponge the surface with water, brush with a fine wire brush, place a wet cloth on the right side and press with a hot iron. To restore the new appearance to serge s, steam by placing a wet, thick cloth on the right side and press, then remove the cloth and iron on the wrong side until dry. When woolens are discarded for the season, brush and sponge them, taking out foreign particles, as moth are not apt to attack clean fabrics. Make mothproof bags with newspapers pieced together and the final opening stitched after the woolens have been inserted. In washing woolens, make suds, using warm water and a good GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 433 soap, rubbing articles in this solution gently between the hands. Rinse in warm water and hang where there is not too great heat to cause steaming. To retain the shape of the article, lay on a flat surface and let dry. To wash plush or velvet, rub gently in a warm suds solution, rinse and hang to dry. While still damp, brush with a fine, stiff, brush, in an outward direction, which usually raises the pile. In case the pile still lies down, place the wrong side over a vessel of boiling water or hold above a wet cloth placed over a hot iron and stroke gently outward. Repeat until effect is gained. In case panned velvet or plush is desired, iron while damp on the right side with a moderately hot iron, stroking the iron in the same direction throughout the length of the material. Old velvets that are slightly faded may be steamed, panned and shirred or draped onto old hat forms. Old faded cloth which is worth while may be dyed and brought into good use. If the cloth contains wool and cotton, use dyes for cotton, as the wool absorbs the dye for cotton more readily than the cotton will take the dye for wool. Be sure to follow exactly the instructions given for dyeing. To set the color in washing tinted and delicate fabrics, soak in salt water; cup of salt to a gallon of water. For green or purple cloth, add one-fourth cup of vinegar which often has the desired effect. Old furs may be cleaned by sponging with wood alcohol or by brushing and cleaning with hot bran. White furs may be cleaned in pure gasoline, then combed with a coarse comb to restore fluff. Do not combine flour with gasoline unless the gasoline is free from water, else a paste forms which is not easily removed. To renew old buckram hats, remove the trimmings, cut the shapes down and remold. Dampen the buckram, place a dry cloth over it and press with a hot iron until dry. The brim is easily pressed after laying flat on its side on the edge of the board, with the brim extending perpendicular, and iron until the dents are. removed, using a cloth as before. In taking out dents in the top of the crown, turn the hat upside down and iron the inside of the crown by moving the iron carefully until the surface is dry. Rewire the edges of the frame where necessary, and measure the exact amount required, join, and sew. using a long stitch forward and a short stitch back, catching firmly the edge of the buckram. the thread extending over the wire. The shape is then ready to cover by applying shirred silk or velvet. Acquire the economy habit and help reduce the H. C. L. L. D.S. RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS I Dear Friend and Sister: I Would you like to bless and comfort mankind by receiving a training to become a Relief Society Nurses' Aid? I The Relief Society nurse school is now transferred to the L. D. S. Hospital, where one year's training will be given n all essentials to qualify students for practical nurses or, as they are now to be called, Nurses' Aids. I The rich people can afford the services of a trained nurse, the poor people often are nursed through charity, but I the large class of people with moderate means must go with- out nurses unless they can be helped by our Relief Society Nurses' Aids. I School opens September 1, 1920, in the L. D. S. Hospital. I Course, one year. Thirty days' charity nursing given in return by Aides, when and where required. Girls will have perfect I protection. A graduate nurse will live in the home with our students. Certificates will be issued to these Aides by the General Board of the Relief Society. I No tuition is required for the course. The thirty days' nursing covers all expenses. Students will wear regulation dress. Applicants should be between the ages of 18 and 35, and I should be eighth grade graduates at least. A student who completes the course and then desires to I enter the regular hospital training school will receive six months' years of credit, high school provided work. she has had one or more complete The Nurses Aid course of one year must not. be confused I with the regular Hospital three-year course of training which is required by law for graduate registered nurses. I The work will be under the supervision of Miss Charlotte Dancey, superintendent of nurses of the L. D. S. Hospital, I assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, L. D.S. Hospital graduate. Applicants and Relief Society presidents will be furnished with full data through the General Secretary of the I Relief Society. I MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS I Chairman of Nurses Committee MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN is I