[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Literature | Title: Men Must Work]

Men Must Work Vera Hinckley Mayhew Third Prize MARY stood between Sister Faulk and Jane Bower as they sang "Let's Be Kind to One Another." The melody soared and filled the small basement room _where Relief Society was held.
Such a plain little room, old furniture, faded draperies, chairs that didn't always stay up; but it was beautiful to Mary. So was the small, lumpy woman beside her, because if it PAGE 190 hadn't been for Sister Faulk, Mary's life would have been ruined. Her throat tightened until she couldn't sing as her mind flew back to that day three months before that had been the turning point in her life: OM was already up when Mary awoke that morning. She could hear the scratch of his razor. She pushed her feet into a pair of shapeless PRIZE-WINNING STORY mules and thrust her arms into a shabby house coat that was none too clean. Out in the kitchen she spread a cloth on the table, not caring that it didn't hang straight and that there were spots on it from the day before. She put bowls and spoons at four places and a package of ready-cooked cereal, a bowl of sugar, and a bottle of milk in the middle of the table.
Almost before she had finished, the children slipped into their places, filled their bowls with cereal, heaped the cereal with sugar and poured on milk. 'Tom came in and began to eat in strained silence.
Mary just sat. Her abstraction was so complete that she didn't notice when the children slipped from their places and went outside.
Only when Tom pushed away his half-eaten food and rose from his chair with such suddenness that it went clattering across the kitchen floor did she look up. "Mary," he said, "don't you even care about the children? Neither Sally nor Ray had washed for breakfast. Do you have any idea where they have gone?
This isn't Kaysville, it's Los Angeles, a pretty big place to turn six-year-old kids loose in.. "They'll come back when they're hungry," she said listlessly. "Which should be soon," he answered, "judging by the kind of breakfast they had." He looked with loathing at the table. "This is no food for growing children, nor for a working man either. You've got to snap out of it. I know I was a brute to tear you away from your mother. But after all you're a married woman and should be grown up if you are ever going to be." 191 "I don't want to do anything," she said. "I'm so lonesome I could die. For four months it's been like this. I tell you I can't stand it." She put her head on her hands, and the tears spilled out between her fingers. Tom pulled on his hat as if it were a live thing that had offended him, and walked out of the house.
Without waiting to clear the table Mary went into the bedroom and threw herself across the unmade bed. Why had they ever come to this terrible place?
They had been so happy back home. Tom had a job ?not a very good one, but they could have managed. Mom lived just around the corner. She invited them to dinner often or brought over something she had cooked.
Mary could depend on leaving the children with Mom while she had an afternoon with the girls or went in to Salt Lake for the day. If her work got behind, Mom would help her for a half day to get her work caught up. Then Tom got a chance to take a job in this airplane factory, and nothing would do but.
They must pick up and move.
Mary had no idea how long she had been crying when the doorbell rang. Her eyes were red and swollen, but she didn't care.
Even if it were only the Fuller Brush man, she'd talk to him. She couldn't buy any brushes, but she'd keep him talking as long as she possibly could. For a few minutes she might forget the way Tom had looked at: her. As if the mess they were in was her fault! He was the one that had moved away from Utah. GHE got up from the tumbled bed, pressed a cold cloth against her burning eyes and went to the door. 192
For a minute she was sorry that she had. The two women on the step were so neatly dressed that her house coat suddenly looked as bad to her as it really was. The parched grass on either side of the walk was a reproach.
With an almost defiant expression she asked them in and found chairs for them. "Are you Mrs. Martin?" the older of the two asked. At Mary's nod, she continued. "We're Relief Society visiting teachers. I'm Sister Faulk, and this is Jane Bower," she said, indicating her companion. "We haven't seen you at Church." "We took the children to Sunday School once," Mary said, "but: it was so dreadful not to know anyone that I never went again. Tom usually goes to Church Sunday evening, but I stay here with the children." "Try again soon, won't you?" Sister Faulk asked. "This time you'll know Jane and me."
Mary found it hard not to respond to the smile of genuine friendliness on the woman's face. "I know how hard it is to be away from home for the first time," Mrs.
Faulk continued. "I had that experience twenty years ago, and Jane came here a bride about six months ago. She was fresh from a round of parties, and the quiet almost got her at first."
Jane smiled at the older woman's teasing. "I disliked the quiet at home and the noise outside," she said, "but I like it here now."
Mary felt swift surprise. 'These women had been as lonely as she was, and they had overcome it. But then, they hadn't left someone like Mom. She didn't intend to get used to it. She meant to make Tom go back. She found herself telling them  about her life at home. She wanted them to understand why she could never like it here. She wanted Sister Faulk to know that her life hadn't been like just anyone's. She had an uncomfortable feeling that Sister Faulk understood too much. The rest of the day Mary was able to accomplish more. In the back ? of her mind was the feeling that she would like to earn the good opinion of Sister Faulk. She decided that she wouldn't quarrel with Tom any more. 'That night when he came home she would talk to him calmly, make him see that she could never be happy here.
Surely he would understand that it was better to live where you could be happy than to have any amount of money.
That night when Tom came home, the children, clean and smiling, were waiting for him eagerly. The odor of roasting meat and the good, spicy smell of fresh baked gingerbread came out to him.
When dinner was over and the children were in bed Mary came into the living room where Tom sat reading the evening paper. "Not working tonight?" she asked. "Not tonight," he answered, and didn't explain that he had felt too discouraged about conditions at home to put his mind on mechanical problems, and that he had passed up the weekly research appointment. She snuggled on the arm of his chair and rubbed her cheek against his hair. "Let's talk a few minutes," she said. "After you left this morning I cried a long time. I was so lonesome that when you were cross I couldn't stand it.
Then the Relief Society teachers came, and somehow I saw my house through PRIZE-WINNING STORY their eyes. I could see that you were right when you said that we couldn't go on like this. I can't seem to get up an interest in anything when I'm so miserable, and there are so many things I don't know how to do. Won't you see if you can't get your old job back or make contacts with some other firm back home? To be there with family and friends is so much more important than any money you can earn staying here." Tom's arm dropped away from her waist. He had felt so encouraged?and now this. Her seeming improvement was only a build-up to get her own way. His voice was tight as he answered her. "It isn't a matter of money. I thought you understood that. We are living in perilous times, when it is every man's duty to do all he can to preserve our way of life.
Down here I'm able to work with others to improve our war equipment.
Those improvements will be just as important when peace comes again. I'm taking a man's part in a man's struggle."
Mary stood up and faced him. "Doesn't it mean anything to you that I'm perfectly miserable?" she asked. ? "Yes, Mary, it does. It means so much that if you can't adjust I'll have to give up and go back. I'll have to forget my dreams of doing something really worthwhile and_ take you back where your mother can take care of you." His lips tightened bitterly.
Mary walked over to the window and looked out. As far as she could see the lights were winking?a million lights in thousands of homes and not one house that held a 193 friend; a labyrinth of streets down which she could walk and no one to speak to her; a hundred stores to fight her way through and no one caring whether she got what she wanted or just got trampled. If I can't adjust, she thought. Why must the woman always adjust? A line from an old school reader came back to her: "For men must work, and women must weep." She supposed it was the same in every generation. A lot had been said about the emancipation of women, but when it came right down to it a woman stayed home and waited for some man to come back to her. "Will you give me three more months?" she heard 'Tom say.
Three more months of loneliness in the midst of crowds! 'The lights of the city blurred and became a huge ball that spun around and around. She tossed her head to clear her eyes and spoke in a hopeless tone. "Yes, you can have your three months, and I'll make every effort to adjust. I'll play fair." "That's my girl," he said as he took her in his arms. One of us has to be unhappy, she thought, and it might as well be me. It did feel good to be in his arms again. "If you just can't get used to it, darling, I'll take you home, I promise," he said. She crept up closer to him. "THE next Sunday, Mary took the children to Sunday School, and Sister Faulk introduced her to several people. Then Jane came in and sat by Mary, giving her hand a tiny squeeze that seemed to say, "I'm glad you're here." A day or two later Sister Faulk brought her daughter to stay with 194
Sally and Ray, and she took Mary downtown to a cooking class. 'They shopped together frequently and almost every morning talked a few minutes on the telephone. One day at Relief Society the work director handed Mary a piece of cloth, a pattern, and a pair of scissors. "Follow the cutting guide, and you can't go far wrong," she said.
Mary sat down and studied the pattern layout carefully. 'Then she pinned the pattern on the cloth and began to cut. Her fingers trembled, and she felt sort of all gone in the pit of her stomach; but others around. Her were cutting, and she would, too.
Jane showed her how to cut the notches, and someone else showed her how to be sure the pattern was straight with the material. Finally, the dress was cut.
Having cut it, Mary wanted to sew it. She made arrangements to go to the Relief Society room on afternoons when the sewing machine was not in use.
When she had finished the dress, it was just the right size for Sally, and she decided to borrow the pattern and make one like it for her own little girl. The night Sally's dress was done, Mary dressed the child in it for dinner. She could hardly wait for Tom's comment.
Sally had been cautioned not to say a word until Daddy did, but she strutted and preened as if she had never had a new dress before. It was pink with rather wide white stripes and pockets crosswise of the material. It had a little, square neck that set off Sally's little, round chin to perfection. "Hello," Tom said, "here's my sweetheart all dressed up. A package from home, Mary?" he asked.  "Mommy made it," the child shouted. "Mommy did? How come?" 'Tom asked. "I've been helping with the welfare sewing at Relief Society," Mary answered.. "I made a dress all alone for the ward donation to the welfare plan, and it turned out so well I made this one for Sally." "It sure is swell," he said, his eyes shining. The next morning an electric sewing machine was delivered. 'There was a card tied to the leg.
Mary opened the envelope and read: To my wife, who is a grown-up woman.
With all my love. Tom.
Tears filled Mary's eyes. Sh