Abraham Lincoln.
Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244
steadfast, serene, worth fighting for
It's in you, the women of America, where lies the courage of humanity. It's in your serene confidence, your steadfast love, your spontaneous laughter. It's in your pride of looking lovely every hour of the day. So to a more beautiful you, guiding star for the man you love, we present fashions for a gallant spring... Styled with exquisite simplicity and subtle flattery, styled with your busy, busy life in mind. See these fashions at Z CM I, where emphasis is on high quality, durability, and all-occasion versatility. Assure yourself of these qualifications in everything you buy.
ZCMI
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
March 17, 1842
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Supplies NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, place-cards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
MARKERS FOR CENTENNIAL TREES
Cast bronze markers for Relief Society centennial memorial trees are now ready. These markers have been especially made for this purpose and bear the inscription ''Relief Society Centennial Tree?1942"' in raised letters. The markers are three inches in diameter and attached to a 12-inch pipe made to be imbedded in concrete so that they cannot be pried loose.
Price $2.25, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy. Postpaid.
IN THY FORM. Words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK
The third edition of the RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK has just come off the press. This book is exactly like the two former editions with the addition of three new songs?the two centennial songs listed above and a new hymn, "'O Father. Keep Us We Pray.'' The price of the new book including the three new songs is $1.00, postpaid.
BINDER FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This is a substantial, well-made binder, into which a total of twelve single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title "Relief Society Magazine'' stamped in gold. This binder is a great convenience to Relief Society officers, class leaders, and other subscribers desiring to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together.
Price 75c, postpaid.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter. Depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate. With costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50. Postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold-filled). With 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design. Size. And coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected' from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE BOOK
A special centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board about May 1, 1942. This book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to and including the general centennial observance. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, ''A Centenary of Relief Society.'' and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book will be fifty cents per copy. Members wishing to be sure of obtaining a copy may place advance orders for this book with their local Magazine representatives or with the office of the General Board, which will be filled in the order in which they are received. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. This valuable book will make an unusual and particularly appropriate Mother's Day gift.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Pauline T. Pingree
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew
Alice B. Castleton
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 MARCH, 1942 ~ No.3
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo?Back of Frontispiece Eliza R. Snow
Prophet Joseph Smith "I Now Declare This Society Organized'?
Joseph Smith First Presidency
Message?First Presidency
Council of Seventy Message to the Relief Society?From First Council of the Seventy Elder Levi Edgar Young
Presiding Bishopric Message to the Relief Society Presiding Bishopric
The Promise of the Gospel President David O. McKay
Relief Society General Presidents Annie Wells Cannon
The Rise of the Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley
The Joy of Progression Leah D. Widtsoe
In Retrospect?Chapter D President Amy Brown Lyman
Prize-Winning Story (Third Prize) Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
The Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll
FICTION
Men Must Work Vera Hinckley Mayhew
GENERAL FEATURES
Editorial:
Anniversary Thoughts President Amy Brown Lyman
Relief Society Passes Membership Goal Belle S. Spafford
The Cover
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon
Notes from the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Vera White Pohlman
POETRY
Morning Prayer Norma Wrathall
Mary-Martha Am I Courtney E. Cottam
Symbol William A. Forsyth 222
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

The Female Relief Society Of Nauvoo What Is It?. (Published in the 'Millennial Star,'' October 1842) It is an institution form'd to bless The poor, the widow, and the fatherless; To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. To seek out sorrow, grief, and mute despair, And light the lamp of hope eternal there; To try the strength of consolation's art, ' By breathing comfort to the mourning heart. To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where Distress presides, and wake up pleasures there; With open heart extend the friendly hand, To hail the stranger from a distant land. Tostamp a vetoing impress on each move 'That virtue's present dictates disapprove; To put the tattler's coinage scandal down, And make corruption feel its with'ring frown. To give instruction where instruction's voice Will guard the feet and make the heart rejoice; To turn the wayward from their recklessness, And lead them in the ways of happiness. It is an order fitted and design'd To meet the wants of body and of mind; To seek the wretched in their lone abode, Supply their wants, and raise their hearts to God. ?Eliza R. Snow. The Cover  Relief Society souvenir centennial plate is reproduced on the cover of this issue of the Magazine. The design of the plate is a copy of an old etching of the organization meeting of the Society, showing Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards, and the eighteen charter members. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. Pictures of the First Presidency and Council of Seventy are published through courtesy of Deseret News; the Council of the Twelve through courtesy of Salt Lake Tribune.
PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH
Organizer of Relief Society, March 17, 1842, at Nauvoo, Illinois The Relief Society Magazine 


Vol. 29 MARCH, 1942 No.