[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Symbol William A. Forsyth]
William E. Ryberg, Frances Cardall. Secretary; Mark Austin, Henry D. Moyle, Chairman.
Gomittee members not included in picture: C, Orval Stott, Field Representative: dley, Storehouse pee Campbell M. Brown, Stringam A, in picture: John A. Widtsoe, A. E. Bowen, ishopric, Amy Brown Lyman. To The Relief Society Organization From She General Church Welfare Committee By Henry D. Moyle, Chairman the Church-wide Welfare Plan made by the First Presidency at the April, 1936, General Conference, three definite responsibilities were placed upon the Relief Society in these words: ik the official announcement of 1.
Upon ward teachers, personal welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility of discovering and appraising the wants of the needy. 2. The Relief Society should cooperate in the work (of accumulating sufficient food and clothes for the needy) by directing and assisting needy sisters in drying and preserving fruits and vegetables, providing clothing, bedding, etc. 3. It will be the business and the responsibility of bishops and their ward organizations and Priesthood quorums and Relief Societies to see that full relief collections are made. (Official statement of First Presidency, April 1936) If the complete story of the activities of the Relief Society during the past six years in the development of the Church Welfare Plan under that assignment from the First Presidency were to be told, it would be epoch-making. It would tell of their courageous efforts to stimulate welfare activities throughout the Church, to supply vision and foresight to leaders who faltered, and to prod the slothful to righteous effort. It would relate of kindly visits to the homes of the needy, of the encouragement given to the weary and discouraged, of counsel and instruction given the improvident, and of lonely vigils with the sick and the distressed. It would speak of the hours of ceaseless toil to supplement the work of the unemployed that there might be "meat" in the Lord's storehouses to protect the unfortunate against a day of want and privation. | The unselfish service of the ward and stake presidents of the great Relief Society organization has been as tender as that of a mother to her family and is paralleled only by the fatherly solicitude of the bishops of the Church.
Their example has inspired the entire membership with a selfless devotion to this cause of love and mercy that seeks to "wipe out all feeling of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief."
Never have they lost sight of the thought that the "spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive especial care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered." In no small part due to the excellence of their teamwork with the Priesthood quorum leaders and ward bishops, a new day has dawned in the Church preparatory for the day when the world will come to our doors: and say, "Show us your way that we might walk in your path." In the early formative years of this Plan, the General Committee was associated almost daily with Sister Louise Y.
Robison and _ her counselors, Sister Amy Brown Lyman and Sister Kate M. Barker, and General Secretary-Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund.
Their untiring efforts and (Continued on page 221) PAGE 161
The Promise Of The Gospel In Helping Us To Meet Present-Day Crises. President David O. McKay N one of the most solemn occaQO sions of his entire munistry, Jesus said to his chosen Twelve: "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."
These significant words contain both a promise and a statement of fact. The promise: If men will hearken to His "words" they shall find peace. The fact: In the world there is tribulation.
There is also an implication that each is dependent upon the attitude and actions of men themselves. No one will deny that the world today is full of tribulation. A look at the map of the continents discloses the fact that Destruction ndes the waves of every ocean, and not a land but is or may be threatened with deadly bombardment. In the pathway of barbarous war, stealthily stalks the spectre of starvation, and lurking menacingly close, ready to add to the scourge of misery and death, are the ghastly destroyers, Disease and Pestilence. Sad though ? it is, in this world-wide holocaust the innocent must suffer even more poignantly than those whose.
Guilt merits the disaster and death they have fostered.
Tribulation means distress or suffering caused by oppression, persecution, affliction, etc., and these are PAGE 162 the result of injustice and cruelty on the part of those who at present would not only subjugate but exterminate all who refuse to subscribe to their dictation or to a particular way of life. The real source of all this lies in the hearts of men where are born and fostered the vices that breed suspicion, hatred, avarice, greed, enmity, dishonesty, treachery, _blasphemy, a denial of the existence of God and of an orderly universe. The result is that tribulation is rampant! The spirit of the antiChrist is abroad! The achievements of science in power, speed, and mechanism misapplied by gangsters and renegades are being utilized not for the progress and happiness, but for the oppression and subjugation of the peoples of the globe.
Dictatorship is on a rampage while Liberty and Freedom seek for protection and effective means of defense!
Whenever honor, virtue, and integrity are disregarded, seeds of sorrow and suffering are sown. In World War I, Belgium was invaded because of the violation of a sacred treaty considered by the perpetrators merely as "a scrap of paper." As a consequence, among other tragedies, beneath the ruins of Fort Loncin lie buried three hundred and fifty loyal soldiers who preferred death to dishonor. In the present war, a THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL broken promise preceded the invasion and subjugation of Czechoslovakia. As a result of treachery and jealousy over three thousand officers and men were massacred at Pearl Harbor?and so we might multiply illustrations, showing how tribulation and anguish of soul come from dishonor, deceit, ambition, suspicion, hatred, etc. Isn't it about time that man, the boasted crown of creation, began to use just a little of the God-given reason he possesses, and to seek earnestly and conscientiously for the "things" that will bring peace? The Gospel not only promises peace and contentment, but names the conditions upon which peace and contentment are predicated.
These conditions apply to the nation as well as to the individual. A Promise Regarding the Land of America The Lord has promised that "This land (America) shall be a land of liberty," provided iniquity shall not abound.: "If they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever." It is interesting to note that on December 23, 1941, a member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States (Mr.
Smith of Washington), made the following significant comment on the necessity of the nations to live more nearly in accordance with righteous principles: "The peoples and Nations of the earth, including ourselves and our own beloved country, have disre- 163 garded and violated the basic laws of the Universe, which are spiritual and moral. In his second inaugural address, one of the most sublime utterances of modern times, which we in this solemn hour would do wisely to read, Abraham Lincoln enunciated the eternal verity that Nations as well as individuals are subject to the just judgments of Almighty God for their conduct and deeds. "This terrible war of Armageddon which engulfs the world has come upon the children of men as the inevitable effect and natural result of sin, selfishness, prejudice, greed, ignorance, idolatry, and the worship of mammon. Men collectively have failed to heed the rules of life and the laws of Nations as revealed by God the Father in the Christian Bible. "Mr. Speaker, for many years it has been evident to thinking men and women that we are sowing the wind and would ultimately reap the whirlwind.
Social injustice, industrial cruelty, racial prejudice, national selfishness, national arrogance, national pride, have brought upon all mankind the punishment and penalty which must inevitably follow as the final effect of wrongdoing and unrighteousness. The governments of the earth have failed miserably to properly appraise and evaluate the dignity and worth of human personality and the human soul. No Nation, not even our own, has practiced the virtues of true democracy ?Christian democracy.
Democracy is not merely a political system?not only majority rule by popular elections and governments by parliaments and congresses.
Democracy is far more than that.
Democracy is individual liberty?equality of op- 164 portunity and justice for the individual. The Christian Bible truly reveals the certain method and perfect plan whereby such democracy ?the Kingdom of God?shall be attained and become a reality upon earth for all mankind. "My colleagues, the Nations and peoples of earth must go back to God the Father, no matter how hard, how long, or how bloody the road. The conflict in which we are now and will be engaged during the coming years.
Shall determine the destiny and type of government for mankind for the next thousand years. By our courageous faith, by our patient sacrifice, and by our loyal obedience to God we shall build a permanent new-world social order, founded upon the enduring and eternal principles of Christian truth and justice.
This will be the grand climax of mankind's age-long endeavor and imminent struggle to conquer the chaos of evil forces and achieve and establish the divine order of the ages?peace, plenty, and prosperity for all Nations and all mankind."
Notwithstanding her many shortcomings, her weaknesses and sins, and the blunders of those who guide her destiny, in the main the United States has been as unselfish in her international dealings and as willing to help the downtrodden and oppressed, as any nation in all history. While God will inevitably punish her transgressions, He will as inevitably reward her virtues; so, in these days of tribulation, comfort and hope can. Be found in the promise of the Gospel that this nation is secure so long as it abides by the principles of righteousness and peace; and that "there shall be none to take away the land of their inheritance."  
Promise and Conditions for the Individual Conditions that will bring peace and comfort to the individual are as easily found and named as are the evils and vices that bring tribulation, and if cherished in proportion to their worth are as easily practiced. A few of the fundamentals of these Jesus referred to when he said: "These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace."
Summarized they are (1) acceptance of Christ as the Way, the Truth, and the Life; (2) a love of God manifested in deeds; and (3) a love for one another. In other words, as the Savior said on another occasion: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,.. And thy neighbour as thyself." But skeptics and pessimists say that these principles are too general, too idealistic, that mankind is too near the beasts of creation, struggling to eke out an existence, even to attempt to apply them in daily life. In reply we say, men and women have practiced them and have been happy, and have made the world better in so doing. A group did it in Jesus' day, and they have influenced millions of lives since. 'There have been millions since their day, some heralded on the pages of history and others of whom the world has never heard who, through love of God, truth, and of fellow men, have "never yielded to the pressure of circumstances," and who, though they faced persecution and even death, could say in their hearts as the Prophet Joseph Smith declared as he turned into the path that led to his martyrdom: "If my life is of no value THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL to my friends, it is of no value to me."
Such moral heroes ever strive and, to a great extent, succeed in adding to their "faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindiess; and to brotherly kindness, charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." It is gratifying to know that there are hundreds of thousands of men and women today who are turning their hearts yearningly toward the Way, the Truth, and the Life. The world needs millions more whose influence will counteract the evil spread by the multi-millions who love the world, the flesh, and the anti-Christ. The Spiritual Life the True Life of Man After all, the spiritual life is the true life of man. It is what distinguishes him from the beasts of the forests. It lifts him above the physical, yet he is still susceptible to all the natural contributions that life can give him that are needful for his happiness or contributive to his advancement. Though "in the world, he is not of the world."
Jesus taught that men and women fail to live truly, and really amount to nothing unless they have spirituality. The spiritual force underlies everything, and without it nothing worth while can be accomplished. "Spiritual needs can be met only by spiritual means. All government, laws, methods, and organizations are of no value unless men and women 165 are filled with truth, righteousness, and mercy.
Material things have no power to raise the sunken spirit. Gravitation, electricity, and steam are great forces, but they are all powerless to change the motives of men and women. The wealth of a Rockefeller cannot heal a_ broken heart, and the wisdom of all our universities cannot turn into the paths of nghteousness a wayward soul. Men can be born again only through religion." The Gospel, Glad Tidings of Great Joy, is the true guide to mankind; and that man or woman is happiest and most content who lives nearest to its teachings, which are the antithesis of hatred, persecution, tyranny, domination, injustice ? things which foster tribulation, destruction, and death throughout the world. "The fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Hope Even in Death Finally, a belief in the Gospel robs death of its terror, and gives assurance of eternal life for each individual. It is true that from the moment of birth we turn toward death; and Come he slow or come he fast, It is but death that comes at last. Yet, the promise of the Gospel is that "He that believeth in Christ, though he were dead, yet shall he live."
