[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: All The Joy Of Progression]

My final tribute to Relief Society is this: For many years my life has been enriched, and I have been made a partaker in the great joy that comes from learning new truths and from a sense of growth and development. My attendance has helped me to be more tolerant, more understanding of human mistakes and suffering, and to have a more intelligent desire to remove the causes of evil amongst us. It has taught me more of the meaning of love for fellow man and given me a deeper insight into the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which alone offers the way to peace and progress for all mankind. I am deeply grateful that the Lord made it possible for woman through study and effort to take her place by the side of man intellectually and spiritually in the march of eternal progression.

Fourth, the Relief Society has helped me greatly to cultivate the few gifts that have been given me and to learn how to become self-reliant. I realize keenly my limitations, yet the Society has encouraged me, as it does every member, to try when asked and to do my best. I have learned to avoid criticising others as I hope others will refrain from doing when my faults become too evident. In other words, the Society helps women to think, speak, and act for themselves—to be independent human beings, not just echoes of their "Lords and Masters" or mere passive members of society. By improving our minds and all our opportunities, we become much better and wiser companions for our husbands and children, or for our friends and dear ones should we be unmarried.

Fifth, the Society stimulates and helps to satisfy my craving for the finer things of life. It is easy for a busy mother to become so absorbed in the daily grind that there is no time for anything but the newspapers—and often they are neglected. Good literature should be the companion of everyone who desires to grow, and the Relief Society program helps all to keep up an acquaintance with the best in literature. The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me, and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring me.

Another joy that the Relief Society has brought me is the exquisite pleasure of listening to the Singing Mothers of modern Zion. It has been my lot to travel widely and visit many of the stakes of Zion. Always when I see the groups of white-clad women, ready and able to sing the songs of Zion as well as some of the lovely classic music of the masters, my heart is thrilled beyond measure; for I know that singing mothers are always better mothers. If mothers sing, children will sing also. I love the name "Singing Mothers," for every mother should sing to her babies in her home, and especially should she sing in her heart for the great gift of motherhood. Every woman is a mother at heart, and whether or not she has been blessed with children, she may sing with the rest of us. The beautiful music given by these singing groups is always uplifting. I have heard as fine music and as well rendered a program from them as from any chorus I have ever heard and much better than some I have heard. Even though some of their renditions may at times fall short of standard, yet I know their very attempts to sing together make them better women. Those who practice good music are far less prone to gossip and backbite than they would be were they not engaged in such uplifting work. If the mothers of Zion cultivate good musical taste and practice what they learn we may be sure that we shall all be better people. May the voices of the Singing Mothers of Zion never be stilled, and may their efforts increase until the earth shall be filled with song instead of hatred and war!

Sixth, and of greatest benefit to me, is the opportunity the Society affords me to study my religion, to become more and more conversant with the great truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If the Gospel was given in the beginning and restored in our day for the benefit of every individual on earth, then it is just as necessary for women to study and practice its precepts as it is for men. Indeed, their need may be greater, for as the mothers of men it is their duty to guide and direct their families during their most formative years. The Priesthood quorums meet weekly and study different phases of Gospel principles. Because of the Relief Society, the women may also meet weekly and have the chance to study and learn increasingly more and more of restored truth. Were it not for the Society I might not have my privilege of definite, consecutive study of Gospel principles. It is often difficult and sometimes well-nigh impossible for women to leave home Sunday morning to attend Sunday School, or Tuesday evening to attend Mutual; but by planning wisely, most women may arrange to leave for an hour or two one afternoon a week to attend the Relief Society meeting. This is my chance to become conversant with the principles of the Gospel, to develop the spiritual side of my nature, and to get nearer to my Father in Heaven while I learn more of His hand-dealings with His children. Of course, I could and do study the Bible and other Church books at home, and while I receive much benefit therefrom, it is not as stimulating as when discussion is made possible by the many points of view expressed by the members of the Society. Intelligent group study is often more beneficial than individual effort, though the latter is also essential to progress. The study of theology always lifts me to a higher conception of life and gives me added strength to carry on my daily duties. It also makes me a more interesting companion for my husband and a much wiser guide and friend for my children and their friends. If my husband were indifferent to the Gospel or even were he not a member of the Church at all, it would be all the more important for me to be faithful in my attendance at Relief Society that my own and my family's lives might be enriched thereby.

A Wealth of Benefits

One of the greatest attractions of Relief Society to me is its beautiful democracy. Any good woman may become a member if she so desires—there is nothing "exclusive" or "high-brow" about our Society. All the benefits here enumerated may be possessed by any woman who will join, and all are invited to participate in some phase of the varied activities. This is as it should be in the Church of Jesus Christ, where all are invited to come unto Him and partake of His goodness; where there is no respect of persons; where the humblest may sit with the most exalted and be equally welcome. In Relief Society, as in all other Church organizations, we are judged not by our clothes, our homes, our bank accounts, or our social standing, but by our faithfulness, our willingness to serve, and our desire to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. What a wonderful thing this is! How it should make us love our membership in the Church and in Relief Society!

In many places where I have visited, provision is made in the meetinghouse where someone may care for the children while mothers attend the meetings.
