[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: May W Bond Note Reports were not received from Juab Oahu and San Luis Stakes Message From She Presiding Bishopric]

May W. Bond Note: Reports were not received from Juab, Oahu, and San Luis Stakes Message From She Presiding Bishopric (Continued from page 159) The Relief Society has endeavored throughout the century of its existence to educate its members in the correct principles of welfare work, emphasizing the importance of a type of assistance which never demoralizes the individual because of a literal overgenerous supply of necessities, but which, rather, encourages the individual to maintain a degree of self-respect, and which helps in such a way as not to cause him undue humiliation or a feeling of futility. This great mothers' organization advocates: First, to put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God. Respect for the individual and for his personality is a fundamental principle in the art of helping, and, far more important than all, Relief Society teachings aim to maintain the morale of an individual so that he will not lose his independence and allow others to do for him what he can do for himself. Second, any normal individual may require temporary assistance, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a society self-sustaining. Such help causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. If all relief agencies, be they of a religious or governmental nature, would but follow these two fundamentals in social welfare work, there would be little need of concern for the destiny of our great nation, the element of demoralization would disappear, and men would again become strong. There is in the hearts of these "Angels of Mercy" an abiding faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Priesthood, which builds faith and courage in the hearts of those who are beset with many. Of life's problems. Aside from waging a war against poverty, this great organization of women affords its membership many wonderful opportunities in the fields of culture, literature, theology, domestic science, and recreation, literally making it possible for thousands of women who live in the remote parts of the Church to come in contact with the finer things of life. "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy, God" is more than an axiom with the mothers of the Church, it is an actual daily practice in their lives and a shining example of what Paul termed pure religion when he declared: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." (James 1:27) 
 ?MARCH, 1942
