[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD RELIEF SOCIETY AT FREMONT, NEBRASKA The president, Mildred Powell, is at the left on front row. Anticipate will be very heavy. Our attendance record has fallen down a little, owing to the war activities, but we were able to send in fifty subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. "We are busy planning our centennial programs." Western States Mission (Denver, Colorado) LUCEAL R. CURTIS, president of Relief Society in the Western States Mission, sent on December 30, 1941, the accompanying picture of the Relief Society which was organized at Fremont, Nebraska, March 25, 1941, with nine members. She reported that "this little group has established an enviable record in that they have 100 percent Magazine subscriptions, and they have paid their membership dues in full." Eva S. Sumner, president of the Relief Society at Hanna, Wyoming, another branch of the Western States Mission, wrote on January 13, 1942: "Our Relief Society is nearly four years old. Last year we organized a Sunday School in Hanna. "Today, at our work-and-business meeting, we celebrated the birthday of our oldest member, Sister Annie Tate. She was born in England January 11, 1853, and in 1888 she and her husband emigrated to America. She has lived in Wyoming ever since. "Sister Tate has been a constant subscriber to Relief Society publications since 1890, first to the Woman's Exponent and then to the Relief Society Magazine. She spends a great deal of her time reading. She also crochets and makes hairpin lace. At the close of our meeting today we served a luncheon to eighteen members and friends." 210
Tahitian Mission (Papeete, Tahiti) VENUS R. ROSSITER, president of Relief Societies in the Tahitian Mission, wrote on December 20, 1941, as follows: "The Articles of Faith have been translated into the Tahitian language, which we shall use in our lesson work. "With our branches so widely scattered and communication so infrequent, I have not yet learned the conditions of the Relief Societies of the remote islands. In Papeete, Takaroa, and Hikuru, they are functioning as they were a year ago before the departure of the missionaries. "We are happy in our work here notwithstanding the great disadvantage of being without missionaries to carry on the work and encourage the Saints on the isolated islands of the mission." Swiss Mission (Basel, Switzerland) "THE following excerpts are from a letter from Elder Max Zimmer, acting president of the Swiss Mission, which was received during the summer of 1941 by Elder Thomas E. McKay, European Mission president in Salt Lake: "We appreciate very much your kind attention in sending us the Relief Society lessons so early. This - gives us time to do good work in translating and adapting them. Last year we received only the Theological and Church History material. As a substitute for the Social Science course we used the very fine and practical teachings and instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society sisters in Nauvoo, as contained in Elder Joseph Fielding Smith's compilation of the Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
Sister Stoecklin approved of it, and I collected and translated the texts, and we sent them out as a mimeographed nice little 'heft' of twelve pages. 'The sisters are now about through with these lessons, which, according to all reports, were liked and enjoyed very much by them. "To us, receiving and reading Church publications from headquarters has, spiritually speaking, the same effect as rain on a thirsty desert. "Our Relief Societies go on with their good work just as usual.
Meetings are held regularly, and the charity work and other activities are going on as before. We organized a new Society in the little, but lively, branch of Langnau, with Sister Schwarzentrueb as president, and are planning to organize two more, one in Olten and one in Wattenwil. The sisters are really doing a great work.
Last spring and summer, when most of our men were called into the army and a number of our branches were temporarily left without any brethren at all, we asked our sisters to meet with the women and children, holding meetings as far as possible and keeping the branches alive. Of course those branches were visited by the mission supervisor or by older brethren from nearby branches at least once a month to administer the sacrament and take care of special cases, but the sisters responded in a splendid way to our call.
This is also true in regard to the Relief Society visiting teachers; they too are a very fine help, especially in branches where we are very short of ward teachers?and this is still the case in most of our branches. "We look forward to March 1942, with great anticipation, and though comparatively small in numbers, we NOTES FROM THE FIELD want to join the Church in commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of the organization, and make it the climax of our membership drive which has been going on since last winter." In a letter dated November 2, 1941, R. Simond, Swiss District president, acknowledged receipt of Relief Society lessons for 1941-42, which were translated before being forwarded to the Society. He added: "Up to now we have nothing to complain of. We have been able to hold meetings as we liked, but in winter we have to combine some organizations with others to save some coal, as fuel is short over here. In regard to food, we still have plenty, although we have to be careful and count well, but we must be thankful to the Lord to have spared our little country up to now." British Mission (London, England) MARIE W. ANASTASIOU, president of the British Mission Relief Societies, sent the following report of conditions in a letter dated December 18, 1941: "The Relief Society organizations in the British Mission are functioning without interruption.
With the help of President Anastasiou, the sisters in the office, and my board members, we manage to keep going. Of course the war conditions do not permit free travel and even meeting in board meetings regularly. The sisters are scattered, and we only meet occasionally by arrangement. However, we are glad to say that there are at the present time forty-six Relief Societies functioning. In the reports received from November, 146 meetings were held. Each Society is in funds and has been able 211 to carry on the meetings, the lessons, and generally adhere to the program outlined in the Relief Society Magazine.
Regarding the Relief Society Magazine, approximately ninety subscriptions are in operation now. "Regarding the centennial celebrations, we have published in the Star the summary of recommendations contained in Bulletin No. 18.
Immediately after Christmas we propose to devote a greater space in the Star to our work. Two articles by Sister Lyman have been published? one in November and the other in the first issue of January, 1942. "At our annual district conferences, held during the summer months, it was an inspiration to attend meetings, the attendance of women at some of these conferences being as high as eighty-five to ninetyfive. Our meetings were very profitable indeed. The sisters manifested eagerness and readiness to continue to function in various auxiliary organizations, especially in the Relief Society "We return from each conference very much encouraged by the Saints' devotion. "There is a Relief Society supervisor in each of the fourteen districts in the mission. The sisters are very much handicapped in being unable to travel, but nevertheless our monthly reports reach us with fairly good regularity. "During the last year and continuing to the present time, the sisters are knitting woolen articles for the Red Cross and are assisting local organizations in war work. We have sent in the past to the refugee organization in London several parcels of clothing received from the branches of the mission.
This work 212 was done by the Relief Societies. We have just suggested that every Relief Society send us five shillings from their charity. Fund, and the total amount received shall be sent to Mrs. Churchill's Red Cross Aid for Russia. _ "We are happy to say that there is no distress or want among the members who have been bombed, as they were taken care of as much as it was possible in the circumstances by the branch and district presidencies; and major relief came, of course, from the Government. All of them are rehabilitated, and as far as we know there is no want or suffering.
None of our members have suffered physically in the past air raids."  
More than a year earlier, Mrs.
