		A TRIP ON THE CARS.

	Towards the latter part of the summer of
1878, circumstances rendered it necessary
for me to make a flying visit to the metro-
polis.
	Having passed over the route several
times, famaliarity with the natural objects
of interest along the line, detracted some-
what their novelty, and as my book failed
to rivet my attention, I devoted myself to
the study of human nature in its various
phases as represented in a railway car.
	There was the usual assortment of pass-
engers, including the old gentleman with
gold-bound spectacles silently devouring
the contents of his newspaper, the chubby-
fisted urchin munching an enormous piece
of cake, the tired mama with the inevitable
restless baby etc. etc.
	My attention was attracted by a company
of gay pleasure seekers consisting of a gen-

[Column 2]
tleman and two ladies. To the elder of the
ladies, and the gentleman, I merely gave a
passing glance in my general hasty survey
of the car, but there was something about
the younger lady that fixed my attention.
She was dark and petite, with liquid brown
eyes and a dimpled laughing mouth. At-
tired in a dainty traveling suit. She looked
as fresh and sweet as a rosebud. In inno-
cent abandon she had thrown her hat aside,
the better to enjoy the mountain breeze
that came through the open window. She
had removed her glove from the perfect
right hand, in which she held a cluster of
bleeding-hearts and pansies. It was a 
pleasant picture to look upon; in fact, sim-
ple perfection from the crown of the curly
head to the tip of the dainty boot.
	Forthwith I commenced to weave roman-
ces about my little party, establishing her
without hesitation upon the pedestal of re-
finement and purity.
	She was engaged in an animated conver-
sation with her companions, the words of
which were inaudible to me. But present-
ly, in answer to some remark from the
gentleman opposite, I saw the laughing
brown eyes raised, the corners of the sweet
mouth dimpled, and the perfect lips formed
the words "you bet!"
	Horror! my air-castles were ruthlessly
dashed to the ground! The radiant crea-
ture whom I had invested with all the
qualities of a refined and noble nature, was
after all only a specimen of the young lady
of the period, who would forfeit her claim
to the attributes one would be led by her
outward appearance to credit her with, by
allowing herself to use slang. I was di[-]ap-
pointed and disgusted, for slang is my pet
aversion.
	I betook myself to my book, finding it
much more satisfactory to study the ficti-
tious characters described by the author,
than the real human creatures by whom
we are surrounded, and whose faults are so
palpable.
	But I could'nt forget the sho[-]k to my
feelings caused by my traveler's careless
words. I could imagine the feelings of
Fanny Fern when she saw a fair young
lady, in an exquisite morning toilette, come
down to the fashionable late hotel break-
fast table, and after examining the exten-
sive bill of fare, order—"Coffee, fried pigs
feet, fried oysters,omelette and pork-steak!"
