EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Dear Sister:—I have received several
specimens of insects which infest the wheat
and wheat flour in this vicinity, from Bro.
S. I. Sudbury of the Empire Flour Mill.
That gentleman has imparted much infor-
mation to me, which would probably be
new to many of your readers, for which
reason I lay before you the result of his ob-
servations, and those of entomologists who 
have paid attention to this branch of natural
history.
	It is found that for preserving grain from
the ravages of weevil and other insect pests,
it is necessary to have sound bins placed in
well ventilated stone rooms; that where
grain has become infected, kiln drying
must be resorted to, at a temperature not
higher than 167° Fahrenheit, for twelve
hours; or, the grain may be fumigated in 
close vessels by charcoal gas. This last
method appears to me to be less practical
and more dangerous than drying in ovens,
or kilns. The rationale of either process is
to deprive the grain of moisture, which
favors heating and the development of in-
sect life. Brother Sudbury's mode of effect-
ing this condition appears to be based upon
very reasonable conclusions, and has the
merit of having been practically tested by
him. He uses very fine, dry, air-slacked
lime, which is well mixed with the grain,
in the proportion of two bushels to the 
thousand bushels. In practice this has been
found to answer, even with "smutty"
wheat, from which the lime is readily sepa-
rated by putting it through the smut ma-
chine. It seems that "the grain is made
brighter" in appearance, and entirely free
from everything objectionable, if indeed
lime can be considered so, which I very much
doubt, it being in such infinitesmal quanti-
ties. Of the great importance of well sea-
soned and tight bins, as well as good venti-
lation, there can be no doubt, as insects get
through very small crevices. Besides this,
such places are resorted to by the parents
to deposit their eggs. For this reason open
granaries have been found preferable to de-

[Column 3]
fective bins, as the grain can be seen, turned
over and ventilated. I have had flour on 
exhibition which had been "cached" for
several years in dry situations, and there
has been no sign of insect life. But as soon
as it has been brought to this city and ex-
posed, even in cabinets, life has been devel-
oped. The danger that besets flour is the 
result of lack of care among some people,
for which their neighbors have to suffer.
Careful watching and cleansing, with ven-
tilation, are the safeguards against destruc-
tive insects; darkness, damp and dirt are
the sources of evil in the granaries and
flour bins as they favor development of de-
graded life forms. This reasoning applies
to moths, beetles and other vermin affect-
ing grain, corn, peas, beans, rice and other
articles of food. Should it not be trespass-
ing on your space, I may again address you
on this subject, and show some of the
modes of distinguishing between our 
friends and foes in the insect world.
	With great respect,
		Yours very fraternally,
					JOSEPH BARFOOT,
	Museum, Salt Lake City, April 2, 1879.


