OBITUARIES.

	DIED, of diphtheria, Feb. 8, in Bellevue, Kane
County, Jeremiah Johnson, aged four years
and ten months. We deeply sympathize with
Brother and Sister Johnson in the death of this
little boy, and can only say to them, as we were
compelled to acknowledge in our own sore be-
reavement, "God knoweth best."

	DIED, in Snowville, Box Elder Co, Sister
Mary B. Potter. She was baptized in Leices-
ter, England, in 1843; emigrated to Utah in
1863; was married to Richard Potter, Dec. 1,
1866, and departed this life July 28, aged 73
years, 3 months, and 20 days. She lived and
died a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	SAD DEATH—In Harrisburg, Washington
Co., April 4, Samuel Russel, infant son of Re-
vi[-]o and Mary D. Fuller, was drowned in their
own well on the corner of their lot. When
they found him they thought perhaps he might
be resuscitated, but all their exertions proved
unavailing. The child's age was one year and
ten months. We sympathize with the bereaved
parents; only God can comfort those so sorely
bereft.


DIED in Virgin City, Kane County, Utah,
in child birth, Betsy Christena Jenson, born at
Fulster, Denmark, January 13th, 1844. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1854. She was married to
Charles Burke in 1859, and was the mother of
nine children, died March 18th, 1879. Her hus-
band was called to Dixie in the year 1861, and
they have lived there ever since. She was a
faithful member of the Relief Society from its
organization, and was ever ready and willing
to impart to those who needed assistance. She
was an honored and loving wife, a kind and
gentle mother, and always gave good counsel
to her family and friends, who now deeply feel
her loss. Although they feel an assurance
that their loss is her gain. We feel a deep sym-
pathy for the bereaved husband and motherless
children, and her aged mother and step-father
who have been called to part with an affec-
tionate daughter. Her funeral was large for a
small settlement; thirteen vehicles formed the
procession that followed her remains to the
grave. Our whole community mourn her loss,
we feel to say she filled a mission of usefulness,
and has gone to receive her reward with the
faithful in Christ Jesus.
