MRS. STANTON'S. OPENING SPEECH
AT THE WASHINGTON CONVEN-
TION.

	For eleven consecutive years, women
citizens of the United States have assem-
bled here in Washington, to ask that the
principles of our government be carried to
their logical results, making women equal
with men before the law. And we have
asked this not only for the protection of
one-half the people of this nation, but for
the safety of the nation itself, for every
violation of a great principle is sure to be
followed by its penalty. Our fathers de-
clared the equality of the human family,
but by their laws enslaved the African race,
and all women. But the experiment of
limiting universal principles to a favored
few is ever fraught with danger; liberty
for white men only convulsed the nation
for half a century; and mid the thundering
cannon of a civil war the requiem of slavery
was chanted round the world. Out of this
baptism of blood, statesmen with clearer
moral vision saw for a time a new signifi-
cance in the words, justice, liberty and
equality, and in the 13th, 14th and 15th
amendments declared the status of an
American citizen, and the rights, privileges
and immunities involved in citizenship.
When learned judges, lawyers and philoso-
phers, gave it as their opinion that woman
too was enfranchised by the 14th amend-
ment, with new hope we pondered the con-
stitution of our country, and felt that at
last it was indeed the Magna Charta of our
rights.
	With kindling interest we listened to the
eloquence of leading statesmen in their
paeans to liberty, and words cannot describe
the joy that filled our hearts. To realize at
last the hopes so long deferred was happi-
ness such as they only who have belonged
to a disfranchised class can understand.
	To make assurance doubly sure, women
in many States tested their new found
rights, at college doors, in the courts, at the
ballot-box. Some asked the right to prac-
tice law, and were denied; some voted and
were arrested; some tested their civil and 
political rights in the Supreme Courts of
the United States, and thousands petitioned
Congress to declare that women were en-
franchised under the 14th amendment, but
they prayed and petitioned in vain. Though
every great principle involved in the
amendments, and all the thrilling debates
of the republican party since the war, have
been freighted with new hopes of freedom
for all citizens, yet no sooner have the
pleading voices and glowing periods of these
statesmen died away, than woman learned
that they had no significance for her. The
Supreme Court of the United States and
Congress in their decisions and arguments
on the constitutional rights of woman, have
alike stultified themselves and falsified both
the letter and spirit of these amendments,
in making them a protection for one class
of citizens and a new denial of political
freedom for another. We prophesied on
this platform, years ago, that this violation
of principle and the spirit of the amend-
ments, the illogical decisions in our courts
and the frivolous arguments in Congress on
the constitutional rights of woman, must
blunt the moral sense of the whole nation
and ultimately imperil the liberties of the
colored voters of the South; and our pro-
phesies are fulfilled, President Hayes in his
last message complaining that the spirit of
these amendments have not been faithfully
fulfilled by the Southern States; and for the
best of reasons they have never been ful-

[Column 2]

filled by those who first pressed them on
the nation's heart.
	The South in the reorganizing of its po-
litical parties, is simply adopting the tactics
of Northern politicians. Northern carpet-
baggers, so-called, "bull-dozed" the colored
men into voting the republican ticket in
1872, and Southern politicians "bull-dozed"
the same class into voting the democratic
ticket in 1878.
	In neither case have the purity of the
ballot box, nor the sacredness of the elec-
tions, nor the best interests of the colored
voters themselves been protected. It is one
thing to utter high-sounding principles and
quite another to carry them into practice. I
would recommend that the large appropri-
ations made annually to the department of
justice, should hereafter be applied to the
education of our rulers into a knowledge of
what justice is.
	"President Hayes says in his message
that all over our wide territory in the near
future, the name and character of citizen of
the United States shall mean one and the
same thing and carry with them unchal-
lenged security and respect."
	And yet where do we see any preparation
among our rulers for the security and re-
spect of the rights of women even in the
District of Columbia, under the very shad-
ow of the Capitol. Here in 1871, the first
time the District had a republican form of
government, a legislative assembly, 72 wo-
men marched to the city Hall and asked to
register their names as qualified voters.
This experiment of government in the Dis-
trict was made to swell republican power,
by a solid colored vote. Intelligent Ameri-
can women were crowded aside by burly
African men, who could neither read nor 
write. Yet President Grant, who main-
tained the rights of freedmen in Louisiana,
at the point of the bayonet, never gave a
thought to the disfranchised women of the
District. And yet there were 7,000 more
women than men in the District at that
time; industrious, tax-paying, law-abiding
citizens, who neither kept nor haunted the
dram shops nor gambling saloons. A large
part of the taxes paid for the support of
the Police force, criminal and civil courts,
station houses, alms house and jail come out
of the hard earnings of women, and yet if
a little vagrant, harmless, hungry girl steals
a loaf of bread, a doll, or a pocket handker-
chief, the jail filled with hardened crimi-
nals is the only place the District provides
for her reformation, while a reform school
for boys received an appropriation of $100,-
000 and $35,000 a year for its support. And
yet in view of all these outrages on women
and girls, President Hayes in his recent
message gives them no thought, though he
makes a truly paternal review of the interests
of this republic, great and small, from the
army, the navy and our foreign relations,
to the timber on the western mountains,
the switches of the Washington railroad
and the education of the fifty little Indians
in Hampton, Virginia—from the Postal
service, the Paris exposition, the abundant
harvests and the possible bulldozing of
some colored men in the various southern
districts, to cruelty to live animals and the
crowded condition of the mummies and
dead ducks in the Smithsonian Institute,
and yet he forgets to mention 20,000,000
women citizens, robbed of their social, civil
and political rights.
	Hon. James G. Blaine, in his speech in-
dicting the Southern democracy, enlarges
on the injustice of their treatment of col-
ored voters, and makes a strong point on
that section of the 14th amendment, which
says if colored male citizens are not per-

[Column 3]

mitted to vote, neither shall they be count-
ed in the basis of representation. The
Senator considers it the height of injustice
to count citizens in the basis of representa-
tion when not allowed to vote, and thus
compel them to swell the number of their
tyrants. He says:
	"The colored citizen is thus most unhap-
pily situated; his right of suffrage is but a
hollow mockery; it holds to his ear the word
of promise, but breaks it always to his
hope, and he ends only in being made the
unwilling instrument of increasing the po-
litical strength of that party from which he
received ever-tightening fetters when he
was a slave and contemptuous refusal of
civil rights since he was made free. He
resembles, indeed, those unhappy captives,
in the East, who, deprived of their birth-
right, are compelled to yield their strength
to the upbuilding of the monarch from
whose tyrannies they have most to fear,
and to fight against the power from which
alone deliverance might be expected. The
franchise intended for the shield and de-
fense of the negro has been turned against
him and against his friends, and has vastly
increased the power of those from whom
he has nothing to hope and everything to
dread."
	But we need not go to Louisiana or South
Carolina to find such injustice. The women
of Maine, New England, the Western,
Southern and Middle States are all counted
in the basis of representation. Com-
pelled to send hundreds of men to Congress
who care nothing for their rights and inter-
ests, who wholly misrepresent them, and 
yet not one of all these has the right to
vote. The Senator further says: "The war,
with all its costly sacrifices, was fought in 
vain, unless equal rights for all classes
be established in all the States of the
Union." I wonder as he uttered that sen-
timent if the faintest shadow of a woman
fell aslant his brain.
	It is a sad reflection that all these glowing
sentiments of justice, liberty and equality
that have thrilled the hearts of the Ameri-
can people for the last quarter of a century,
should now have no meaning—be but hol-
low mockery, naught but the stock in trade
of clap trap politlcians. We on this plat-
form agree with Mr. Blaine, "that the war
with all its costly sacrifices was fought in
vain, unless equal rights for all classes be
established in all the States of the Union,"
North as well as South. And to this end, I
would recommend the Senator to begin his
work in Maine. There is a large class of 
citizens, intelligent, refined, virtuous,
whose moral power we need to have repre-
sented in the government, not only for the
nation's safety, but for the more complete
development of that class itself in political,
religious, and social ideas. As a question
of civilization, the enfranchisement of wo-
man is of more vital importance than that
of all other classes put together, as her en-
lightened influence would do for politics
and religion what her higher education in
the domestic arts has already done for social
life. There is more buried wealth in the 
minds of the women in Maine than in all
the lumber and fisheries that State can
boast. And yet this large class, represent-
ing so much intelligence, wealth and latent
power, claims no political consideration from
its great Senator.
	In less than sixty days the 45th Congress
will have passed into history. What shall
we find on its pages concerning women?
That to forty thousand citizens of the
United States, filling every department of
art, science and literature, teachers, minis-
ters, lawyers, "the cream of the philan-


thropy and intelligence of the country," as
senators said upon the floor, in presenting
to this Congress the petitions asking for a 
constitutional amendment protecting wo-
men citizens in their right to vote:—that
the Senate Committee on Privileges and
Elections gave three minutes to these peti-
tioners, to the final decision of this vital
question; three minutes! at the close of the
session, and at the close of the day, in the
twilight hour, when even bats and owls
begin to see clearly and to roam forth on
their nightly haunts, and after this three
minutes of consideration, two of which
might have been consumed in the roll call,
and the third in awaiting the arrival of the
tardy chairman, this committee of the
[-]ighest legislative body in the land, voted
down the woman suffrage resolution 6 to 3.
They who voted in favor of the 16th amend-
ment are Senators Hoar, Mass.; Mitchell,
Oregon; Cameron, Wis.; Nays, Wadleigh,
N. H.; McMillan, Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.;
Merrimon, S. C.; Hill, Ga.; Ingalls, Kansas.
	In the other House the Judiciary Com-
mittee were promptly in their seats. Five
members of this committee, Lapham, of
N. Y., Lynde, of Wis., Frye, of Me., But-
ler, Mass., Conger, Mich., eminent Judges,
able Lawyers and honored Statesmen rose
early in the morning, Feb. 5, 1878, to vote
Yes on the constitutional amendment for
women. Five more rose early in the morn-
ing of the same day, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMalion, O.:
Culberson, Texas, to vote No on the rights
of women. The eleventh Hon. gentleman,
Harris, of Virginia, for some reason, did
not rise that eventful morning, and there
our question lies waiting for him to get up
and make his toilet. In both Houses,
therefore, our question is pending. In the
Senate upon the calendar, waiting for some
brave man to call it up and force it before
that body for debate and action. In the
House our question rests on that tie vote.
	The days are rapidly passing, and what
shall be the record on this question of the
statesmen of the 45th Congress. In each
of these Houses are men of sterling integ-
rity, who have served the men of their
States faithfully and well. Yet these men
have deserted them and turned their alle-
giance to new heroes lifted out of obscurity
by the last election. To these men elected
to retirement we appeal. You are writing
many of you the last chapter of your public
career. What page shall the mothers and
daughters of this republic find therein, to
which they can proudly point and say:
"This was for us." As the years roll on
and bring to us victory at last, the men who
have helped to fight our battle will be proud
of their old time loyalty to woman, and
their courage in facing a false and wicked
public sentiment, to so amend their laws
and constitutions as to make all citizens
equal before the law. The air of Washing-
ton is heavy with the wrecked hopes of
disappointed statesmen, of those who led
by personal ambition and party allegiance,
have sacrificed principle to expediency.
They only hold a place in the hearts of the
people, they only are immortal who live not
for themselves alone, but for all humanity.


