ZION'S HOPE.

	How often the remark is made that much of
Zion's future welfare depends upon the gener-
ation now growing up in these mountains.
Children born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, lawful heirs to the holy priesthood,
children of promise. Yet how little have pa-
rents realized in the past the responsibilities
that rested upon them as the guardians to whose
care these precious spirits were entrusted. This
is the most difficult subject to treat upon, and
yet it is, perhaps, the most important one at
the present time. It embraces a large field of
great truths, and truths too, which should be
presented in a light that will strike forcibly the
fathers and mothers, tutors, guardians and
protectors of children.
	The subject itself forces upon the mind the
widest range of thought in the greatest variety
of phases.
	That the education of the youth in Zion
should be more carefully considered than it has
been, none will deny. That there is a slow
awakening to the enormity of the inevitable
result of neglect in the past is true; but even
this is only among the few. To relieve, in
some little degree, the tired and sometimes
overburdened mother, the Lord inspired (we
cannot say less) a few of his handmaidens to
introduce in the various wards and settlements
what is termed Primary Associations. These
are more especially for spiritual culture and to
impress upon the young and innocent the ac-
tual necessity of that training which develops
the higher nature.
	We are fully aware that much has been said
to mothers, more particularly in regard to the
disciplining of their children, that they may
grow up to be noble, honest, industrious and
virtuous men and women, honorable members
of society, and set an example worthy of imita-
tion. But to reach the hearts of children is
more especially what is needed; all the moral
lessons in the world will not eradicate the evils
which exist among the young, and which of late
are becoming so vividly apparent unless the
hearts of the children can be reached. To edu-
cate and cultivate the heart of the child to the
highest and noblest aspirations seems to us the
only possible method of correcting the wrongs
th[-]t now exist to an alarming extent. There are
of course some, perhaps many exceptions, but
even among the Latter-day Saints the children
are in many ways neglected in not being taught
principles that will give them strength and
power to resist temptation and flee from evil
influences.
	Notwithstanding the most careful and judi-
cious solicitude and watchfulness, children
will sometimes go astray and bring sorrow and
grief to the most conscientious and God fearing
parents; and in summing up or noticing in-
stances of this kind, it really seems there

[Column 2]
must be a wrong that dates far back and crops
out again after long years. These are things
not yet comprehended by those who have made
the science of life the study of years. These
are among the mysteries yet to be unfolded;
but to return to the simplicity of our subject.
	The Savior said, "Love is of God," and a com-
mon saying is "Love begets love," and "there
is no labor in love," these and many other fa-
miliar quotations might be given from the
Scriptures, and eminent authors; but the lives
of men and women themselves confirm the fact
that children must be trained up in love; and
"perfect love casteth out fear." Indulgence is
not love, nor the out-growth of love, but of
weakness, want of firmness, lack of decision,
energy, and of the requsites of character that
constitute true government, either in the
family or State.
	Mothers must, or should possess this con-
trolling or governing power to a large extent,
otherwise they are wholly unfitted to under-
take the training of immortal souls. There is
nothing more important in a woman's life
than the exercise of self-government, which
will admirably qualify her to govern wisely the
precious jewels committed to her charge. Per-
haps we should not be so positive, or speak of it
in so broad a sense; but until the children of
Zion are taught from their very infancy to res-
train evil passions, and direct the good properly,
it is useless to expect thorough reformation. If
the most delicate plants, transplanted from a
sunny soil, were given to those who dwell in
less genial climes, perhaps exposed to heavy
dews and poisonous gases, would they not need
the most constant care, that they might be pre-
served, and could it be expected they would
blossom into beauty without their nature and
condition being carefully studied.
	Yet it is expected that children transplanted
from heavenly soil need but little care and at-
tention while very young, except to minister to
their material wants. Children's natures
should be studied and they cannot be too ten-
derly, if judiciously cared for. And yet in this
land of enligtenment, there are children grow-
ing up without affection. Mothers are so busy
making and mending, and attending to house-
hold duties, they forget the little hearts that
beat beneath the elaborate or simple garments,
(it matters not which it may be) and so the little
child is sent out to play or off to school, and
merges into boyhood or girlhood lacking the
true cultivation of its best instincts, purified
through the fountain of mother-love.
	Duties of parents are not easily defined, even
in a general sense, and circumstances, temper-
aments, conditions and changes all have their
relative effect, but there is one grand, primeval
truth which characterizes all instances, and
that is the fact that, to the father and mother
the existence of the soul is due, and children
should not be thrown upon the world wholly
unprepared and unfortified, for their life-work.
Mothers do not drive your children from you,
but draw them near you and teach them the
pure principles of the Gospel, in love and ten-
derness, and while you would extend charity to
all, be sure you do not forget to bestow such
charity upon them, as their tender years and
hearts have need of. Do not wait until it is
too late to make the impression, but while you
have time and affection, spare no pains, but
remember the highest and holiest duty is the
charge of human souls. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

