WOMEN IN THE ARIZONA MISSION.

	We are so isolated here there seems but
little to write that would interest the sis-
ters of Utah. If we are living as saints
surely we have something to say in defense
of the principles revealed from heaven, and
of the many mercies our God has shown
unto us. We have been greatly blest with 
good health the past year; though three
weeks ago Sister Malinda Wanslee died.
She was from Arkansas. Left a husband
and three little girls, the youngest but
seven days old. She was impressed from
the first that her time had come. The
brethren and sisters exercised all the faith
they could, and she was repeatedly prayed
for. She said she knew the Lord was able
to heal her, yet felt it was his will to take
her to himself. It is ever sad to see a
friend laid in the silent grave but doubly
so when there are so few together as there
are here. We know we have more reason
to mourn for the living than those who die
with the hope of a glorious resurrection,and 
we should all live so that we can have that
hope, and merit the blessings in store for
the faithful. We have never seen  a time
when the evil one held such sway over the
hearts of the ungodly, and that is why we
as saints should strive the harder to do
right, so we too may not full victims to the
tempting of Satan.

[Column 2]

	The EXPONENT contains great comfort in
its pages. It seems every number is bet-
ter and more interesting, or at least I enjoy
and appreciate it more. I glory in the
courage of the noble sisters who went to
Washington to plead the cause of Zion, and
I pray God to bless them and the hundreds
of brave wives and daughters who daily
defend the principles of the Gospel and es-
pecially that of Celestial Marriage. I thank
my heavenly father I have never spoken
against it, and through the teachings of a
good mother always respected it. I was
pleased with "A little sketch" by Olive
Branch in the last paper, and can say I know
many such true-hearted unselfish wives
who would not exchange their conditions
for the wealth of Rothschild; and it is my
belief if we are not happy, it is because of
our weakness and our lack of determina-
tion to overcome our inherent selfishness.
No wife need to fear that her place will be
usurped by another if she is worthy. God
is first and will reward according to the
merits of each, and if the first is a faithful
Latter-day Saint the rest are very apt to
follow her example. Love begets love, and
her kindness will win the respect of all.
There may be exceptions but it will gen-
erally prove so. How much we miss the 
great and good meetings our Utah breth-
ren and sisters enjoy; yet we would not
wish to return, for we feel if we honor our
calling to this land "our father" will amply
reward us for the little sacrifice we are re-
quired to make at present. I think in due
time the sisters will be able to do as much
good in redeeming the Indians as the breth-
ren; for if the civilized mothers need con-
stant teachings to aid them to bring their
children up in the ways of the Lord, how
much more does the savage mother need.
The Navajo woman has a very pleasing
appearance. She is much superior to the
women of the Northern Tribes of Indians.
I trust I have not wearied the patience of
your readers, or that they will not forget to
help the Indian Missionaries with their
faith and prayers.
	MARY STUART
Savoia, New Mexico, March 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
