HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON THURSDAY, April 17th, the Relief Society
of Davis County, will hold their annual meet-

[Column 2]

ing in the Farmington Meeting-house. It is
expected President Eliza R. Snow and other
sisters from this city will attend.
	TELEGRAM FROM Washington, April 14, states
that Arthur L. Thomas, of Piitsburg, has been
confirmed by the Senate as Secretary of Utah
Territory.
	ON MONDAY, April 14, at 12 o'clock, the cor-
ner stones of the Manti Temple were laid with
all the grand and imposing ceremony which
distinguish occasions such as these in building
Temples to the Most High. There were pres-
ent nine of the Apostles. President John
Taylor called the congregation to order, which
consisted of between three and four thousand
people.
	ON SUNDAY evening a large and crowded audi-
ence assembled in the Theatre at the Territo-
rial meeting of the Sunday Schools. All
parts of the Territory were definitely represent-
ed. The people were delighted to have in their
midst Hon. Geo. Q Cannon, delegate to Con-
gress and Territorial Superintendent of Sunday
Schools. He came home on a flying visit to
attend Conference.
	THE Territorial Conference of the Y. M. M.
I. A. was held in the Theatre on Tuesday eve-
ning, April 8th, 1879. The report was nearly
complete from every section of the Territory.
These societies are doing a great deal towards
the elevation and spiritual culture and im-
provement of the young. The audience was
very large, and after reading the reports, ad-
dresses were made by Elders Joseph F. Smith,
Erastus Snow, Moses Thatcher and Junius F.
Wells.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion convened in the Tabernacle on Satur-
day, April 5th, at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M.
Cannon presiding. Reports were read from all
the wards; a few bishops also reported verbally.
The Relief Society, the Y. M. M. I. A. and the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake were also repre-
sented. Pres. Cannon stated very definitely
the condition of the building committee on the
New Tabernacle: just how much money was
needed to complete the work. A vote was
taken that the money should be furnished by
the people through the bishops of the several
wards. The Conference was well attended.
	ON SUNDAY morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock,
the hosts of Israel convened in the Tabernacle
to hold their Forty-Ninth Annual Conference.
The house was crowded to overflowing, and
many really could not obtain admission. The
Conference lasted three consecutive days, the
interest of speakers and hearers never flagging
in the least. Many powerful discourses were
delivered, and the people who came from a
distance must have felt amply repaid for their
toil and journey. The people need feeding
with the bread of life, and on occasions such as
these they partake freely. The Quorum of the
Twelve, in which the death of Elder Orson
Hyde had made a vacancy, was filled by elect-
ing Elder Moses Thatcher to complete the
number. It is impossible to make quotations,
even from the speakers' sermons, as much was
said that was excellent—but we cannot forbear
mentioning the fact that the sisters were not
forgotten. President John Taylor alluded to
the sisters' organizations, their benevolence
and their good works in a truly brotherly man-
ner, and it will no doubt encourage and
strengthen them in their several fields of labor.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to give a brief account of a meeting
held in the 3d Ward Nov. 14, 1878, which was
called for the purpose of reorganizing the


Young Ladies' Association. Sisters S. M.
Heywood and Marinda Hyde were present,
and the reorganization was completed as fol-
lows:

	Martha Smith, President.
	Louisa Irvine,	} Counselors.
	Agnes Balto,		}
	Della Eardley, Secretary.
	Annie Weiler, Treasurer.
	After the business of organizing was finished,Sisters Heywood and Hyde made some very
interesting and appropriate remarks to the
girls, urging them to be faithful to their duties
and punctual to their meetings, and try and
create a spirit of kindness towards each other.
Their remarks were followed by several sisters
belonging to the ward, they having a great
desire for the welfare of the young, and will
do all they can in assisting to make their meet-
ings beneficial to them.
	There are thrirty-four members belonging to
the Relief Society in the Ward. The general
attendance is very small, but those few are
alive to their duties, and we wish unitedly to
be co-workers with our sisters throughout the
Church in building up the kingdom of God.
	Ever with you in the Gospel,
		MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres't.
		MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Sec'y.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of the 8th Ward convened in the
ward meeting house, Feb. 21, 1879. Mrs. M.
A. Freeze, President of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion, and her Counselors, were pre-
sent. Meeting opened in the usual way. Mrs.
Louie Felt made some excellent remarks;
spoke upon young girls choosing partners for
life, and associating with those who are not of
our faith; also spoke upon the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, and advised every one to be 
careful what they say about it. She said she
was sorry so many mothers neglected to answer
their children when they asked questions.
	Mrs. Clara Young Conrad made a few re-
marks, and related how she received a testimo-
ny of this work. Miss Sarah Barney then
sang a song. Mrs. Freeze said: "There is a
calm and peac[-]ful influence in our midst. I
am pleased to see the punctuality you have in
commencing your meeting, and also the order
that is here. Store your minds with useful
knowledge, and try to improve In everything."
She dwelt earnestly upon the principle of Ce-
lestial marriage and the joy there is in seeing
cheerfulness. Advised every one to keep the
Word of Wisdom. Remarks were made by
several others, after which Pres. Mary Leaver
and Counselor Chamberlain made a few closing
remarks. Benediction
		MRS. MARY S. Leaver, Pres't.
		MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Sec'y.
