EDITOR EXPONENT:

	My very dear sister:—This is the first
time I have ventured to address you as an
editor, but your time is so much taken up
with public duties that it is hard to find
you at leisure for an hour; so I take this
way of claiming your attention, and to ex-
press my opinion of your late visit to Wash-
ington.
	I heard you say at one of our meetings,
that if the sisters thought you had a good
time while absent they were very much
mistaken. I for one can readily believe
you in this; to me it appears the most ardu-
ous mission any of our sisters (as yet) have
been called upon to perform. It must have
been a trial for two plural wives to meet
the talented and worthy ladies of the Con-
vention, at a time when prejudice towards
us as a people abounds to such an extent.
Even the very best of those ladies were
very careful to have it understood that their
acquaintance with the Utah ladies was all
included in Woman Suffrage. When I read
of the charitable acts and self-denial of those
honorable women, I think of the young
man whom our Savior loved; the Scripture
tells us He found him lacking in one thing
and sent him away sorrowful.
	I do not think it was any great trial for
you to meet the question of woman suffrage.
That is a national subject and pertains to 
earthly things, and there was no difficulty
you need feel or suffer on that point. But
you went to the highest court of this great
nation as a Delegate from the women of the 
Latterday Saints—as an advocate to plead
the cause of those who practise the laws
and ordinances of the Gospel, as revealed
from heaven in this our day; and the faith
and power which was exercised for you was
very great. You were answerable to God
for all your words and actions, and this I
consider the most vital subject of your mis-
sion.
	You were surrounded by the wisdom and
learning of this great nation; those who
would read your very thoughts before you
could utter them. I assure you my thoughts
were with you all the time, praying the 
Lord to give you strength and wisdom, so
you could speak by the same power as St.
Paul did when speaking before King
Agrippa.
	I have had some experience myself, from
twenty-five to thirty years ago, in England,
my native land. I was well established in 
the business of millinery and dressmaking,
before I knew of the Latter-day Saints and
for eight years after I joined them. I
worked for many highly connected ladies,
some of whom were titled. It soon became
known in the small town where I lived that
I had joined the Mormons (so called), but
my business did not suffer, it was too well
established. As a rule ladies did not con-
descend to converse with trades people, ex-
cept upon business. About that time po-
lygamy was first published; and one very
pious lady came and told me she respected
me so much that she would like to have a 
talk with me. She asked me how I could
think of leaving the pure and holy Church
that I was brought up in (meaning the
Church of England), and believing such
awful doctrines as those strange people
taught. I told her the Bible taught me to
believe in the restoration of all things, con-
sequently plural marriage was a Patriarchal
order and had to be restored, and I had
considered lately a great deal upon the de-
graded condition of my own sex, and I said
the Christain maiden (in my opinion) was
not protected half as well as the Turkish

[Column 2]
maiden, and their cries had gone up before
God and He was preparing a way of escape.
The lady then spoke of reformatory institu-
tions and societies for the amelioration of
the fallen, and told of some six different
societies that she and Sir John (her hus-
band) subscribed to. I told her I did not
think that method would ever reach the
foundation of the evil. That women, par-
ticularly the poorer class, would never prac-
tise celibacy; they must have protection.
The nature of the sex is compared to the
vine, continually reaching for support. She
got vexed and said: "Well, Mrs.—what
would you propose to do? would you rec-
ommend your husband to marry one of
these women?" I told her that would all
depend on circumstances; but I would tell
her what I was prepared to do, If she would
like to hear me. So I proceeded, and said
if I saw an innocent girl belonging to that
class in danger, I would take her to my
home, and by love and kindness win her
over to better ways; and, eventually, if it
was agreeable to my husband and the girl,
would give my consent to their marriage;
and if my husband is a man of God, he
would love me all the more for the sacri-
fice. And if all honorable women would
act on this plan there would soon be a great
revolution. The lady arose and said, "I
thought I was a great and good philanthro-
pist, but I could not do that.
							E. L. H.
	Salt Lake City, April 3, 1879.

