					BOOKS.

	The world is full of books, journals and news-
papers, and they are not all good. A bad book
must in the nature of things be written by a 
bad man or woman, since a good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit: hence the time you spend
in reading bad books is so much time spent in
company with a bad character. There is a 
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, because of its
silent power. Your life and conduct will re-
flect the company you keep and the books you
read; you cannot come in contact with filth
without some of it sticking to you. It is not
the quantity of reading, but the quality that
should be considered. The reading of bad


books has done more during the last fifteen
years in our country to poison the minds of
young people, lower the standard of high moral
rectitude, and shut the heart against the Spirit
and word of God, than almost any other evil.
Go to the convict's cell and ask what kind of
books he has read; he will tell you, in nine
cases out of ten, if he has read any, that they
were bad books—tales of crime portrayed in 
glowing colors, which roused the evil passions
and unholy desires that might have lain dor-
mant in the heart. Show me the youth that
pores over tales of fiction, and I will show you
a fictitious character. Better not to read at all
than to read bad books. It is just as essential
that books and reading matter should be care-
fully chosen as the company we keep. I en-
treat you, especially young people, to shun all
books that advocate false systems of religion.
Let the Bible be your daily companion, and
make yourself familiar with such books as
have been written by the best of men. And
choose biographies of the best men who have
lived in this or other ages, and follow them as 
far as they have followed Christ.
	By reading light literature it destroys rather
than improves the mind; it does not awaken
the reflective organs, or give rise to elevating
thought. Yet this trash finds ready sale in 
our cities, while the more solid works and good
books are neglected. Our talents are not given
us for our own special use, but for each to bene-
fit the other. Then store your minds with use-
ful knowledge that will be beneficial to society.
There is more glory in mounting the hill of
science through our own perseverance, than if
we had thousands of help. Knowledge is
boundless, and if we study a lifetime with the
greatest zeal we could not say "I have learned
all and am perfect."
	How often has the world been benefitted by
the ideas of one person. For instance, the in-
ventive man, by the aid of labor and close ap-
plication to study, wins for himself a name
that will ever be respected. Observe these
things, and every experience will be to us
means of advancement. In the business of
life there is satisfaction in conquering difficul-
ties.
	I am so much interested for the young peo-
ple, I am desirous of warning them against
the coming of those who are trying to deceive
them and lead them from the truth.
	MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, Feb. 7, 1879.


