LISH FAMILIES.

	"Home sweet home, there is no place
like home," is often said and sung by peo-
ple who never care to be at home, and in-
deed are ever ready to escape from home,
and when at home are always looking for-
ward to the happy time when they shall
escape from the dreary, humdrum place.
In truth these people have no home; they
have a dwelling, but a dwelling is not the
exact synonym of a home. Architects can
build you a dwelling and put in it every
possible convenience--make it, as the arch-
itects say, replete with conveniences, but
no architect can make a home of it. Neither
Michel Angelo nor Palladio could do that.
Architects can build you a house, but to 
make it a home is beyond their power.
And yet the thing is not difficult to do. Day
laborers can do it. Not far from where I
live there is a palatial residence. It stands
in a magnificent park studded with ancient
trees. Dappled deer and tall antlered stags
roam about in the park. I have never been 
in the house, but I am told by one who
has—by the gardener, in fact—that all that
art can achieve has been done to make it a 
perfect residence, and yet, as my friend
told me, it is rarely occupied by the family.
In the London season, if not abroad, they
live in Belgrave Square. As soon as the
season is over they are off to the Continent
—Paris, Naples or Rome. In the winter
my Lord, and perhaps my Lady (there are
no children), come down, my Lord to hunt
and shoot; but they seldom stop there more
than a month or so; my Lady never more
than two or three weeks, as she "doesn't
like the place."
	"Well" he replied, "they never seem to
me to have what I should call a home. They
are never often together, and my Lord has
his friends, and my Lady hers. At least so I 
am told, but we know but very little here
about their London life. All I have to do 
with them is to send twice or three times a 
week fruit and flowers to the butler. Come
he said, and see my home."
	"With all my heart," said I, and im-
mediately we crossed the park and entered
a pretty double cottage, which I saw at
once was a "home." The room was spot-
lessly clean, as was everything in it. On
the sill of the quarried window was a row
of brilliant flowers. Through the open door
which led into the garden the sweet voices
of young children came to my ears. Pres-
ently the buxom matron came to greet me,
and asked me to take refreshments.
	"This," said my friend, as he dropped
into an old-fashioned easy-chair, "is my
home."
	"When I come here after my work is
done I do not envy my Lord."
"Nor I, my Lady," said the wife; "poor
miserable creatures." — Temperance Re-
former.


(THE General Statutes of Massachusetts
exempts property to the amount of $500 of
a widow or unmarried woman, and of any
"female" minor whose father is deceased,
if her whole estate, real or personal, not
otherwise exempted from taxation, does
not exceed in value the sum of $1,000. This
law, as it now stands, was framed in 1860,
but a law to exempt certain personal prop-
erty of unmarried women and widows
dates back to 1853. ED. N. C.)


