REFLECTIONS.

	A few reflections have passed through
my mind while reading the travels of our
worthy sisters, yourself and Mrs. Williams,
your doings and your reception, both at
Washington and elsewhere, in the presence
of Mrs. Hayes, the President, Senators, or
Representatives of the houses of Congress,
all treating you with kindness, courtesy
and due respect. I felt while considering
this subject that man was not the only be-
ing endowed with power from on High to
go forth and battle with the enemy of all
righteousness; and I felt there must have
been legions of holy angels round about our
sisters, to ward off the powers of darkness
and open up the way before them, that they
might have access to the ruling powers of
this mighty nation and tell them the truths
of heaven. I felt that God was with our
sisters and is at the helm, and though
wicked men and women may try to do all
they can to oppose those who seek to up-
hold and sustain this work, God will say,
"Thus far shalt thou go and no further."
	It seems as though we have to pass
through a rough and thorny path, and be
tried and tempted, as Jesus, our elder
Brother, was, and Joseph, our beloved pro-
phet, in order that we may attain to the
glories of the word to come. I feel if we
will live our religion, attend to our duties
at home, get the holy influence of the
Spirit of God to be with us, we would have
access to the heavenly powers above, and
have the angels of God to aid and assist us
to battle with the power of the lower re-
gions that surround us and seek to lead
away the unwary; we should have power
to put them away from us, that they might
only associate with their own kindred spir-
its. Then we could live like the people of
Enoch, or like the Nephites on this conti-
nent when they were all converted to the
Lord—no poor or rich, no division or con-
tention, all united in the work of the Lord.
	AMY MILLER.
Fayette, March 8, 1879.


THERE is a limit to the work that can be
got out of a human body, or a human brain,
and he is a wise man who wastes no energy
on pursuits for which he is not gifted; and
he is still wiser who from among the things
that he can do well chooses and resolutely
follows the best.—W. E. Gladstone.


