				PETITION.

	On reading the last anti-polygamy peti-
tion and letter to Mrs. R. B. Hayes I could
not but query in my mind what the insti-
gators of that petition and letter wished to
accomplish.  Was it to rescue fallen, de-
graded creatures from the grasp of their
destroyers? Was it to introduce truth for
error? To give homes to the homeless,
husbands to the husbandless, and children
to make glad the hearts of the desolate?
Or was it to enact laws that would improve
our social position, make us better citizens
and allow us that liberty of conscience that
the fathers of this free and enlightened
country fought and died for? No! these
were not the motives.
	Wicked and designing men would like to
take possession of our happy homes, our
hard-earned property, our beautiful gardens
and fields of smiling grain; of our virtuous
and pure-minded daughters; it is this they
want. They would like to introduce their
grog shops and dens of iniquity, their bil-
liard rooms, and also their sectarian church-
es. How soon would our pleasant, happy
homes be turned into resorts for worldly-
minded men and women, yes, even evil
spirits and birds of prey; and because we
will not submit to these outrages, like the
fox they cry "sour grapes."
	Men from the first have signally failed in


their attempts to put down plural marriage;
now they have called to their aid some
foolish women—for foolish they are in this
respect, no matter how wise and intelligent
they may be in others. By flattery and
poor-pussyism they have so blinded these
women that they fail to comprehend the
motives of these unprincipled men, and are
led on to become traitors to their fellow-
sisters, to their own good common sense,
and to themselves as ladies of this enlight-
ened age. What care these busy-bodies for
the purity of this people, our social posi-
tion, our family relations, our prosperity,
our loyalty to the parent government?
	But it is this: we serve the true and liv-
ing God; we are willing to keep His com-
mandments and to raise up to Him a God-
fearing people—noble, stalwart sons, virtu-
ous, spiritual-minded daughters, who will
build up a kingdom of righteousness, and
make the earth fit for the coming of the
Son of man.
	Surely the blackness of darkness has
overshadowed them; and they see the pure
and humble through their own darkened
mirror. We ask not their sympathy, we
need it not; we care not for their censure,
we serve the Lord according to the dictates
of our consciences. We are determined to
stand by the right! We cannot give up our
husbands! we cannot allow our children to
be branded illegitimate!  Better let us hide
in the dens and caves of the earth, than
give up any of the pure principles of the
holy Gospel of the Son of God. The vision
becomes clearer. The winds may howl and
the waves dash against the old ship, Zion;
some of the seamen are washed overboard,
yet she rides majestically on, for at the
helm stands the Lord God of Hosts, and I
hear the still small voice say, "Fear not,
my children, I will fight your battles and
bring you safe to that desired haven of
peace and rest.
				M ELIZABETH LITTLE.
	March 20, 1879.


