MORIAL.

	In reading the Memorial of the ladies of
the Anti-Polygamy Society, to Congress,
I find statements which in my estima-
tion are entirely erroneous and evince a
great lack of knowledge.
	First they state that Delegate Cannon
was petitioning for amnesty and promising
obedience to the law of 1862.
	Now I never heard through any other
source that Brother Cannon ever made such
a promise. I read in the "Deseret News"
that certain members of Congress proposed
something of the kind to him, but I feel
positive that he never accepted it. If he
had he would have died politically and re-
ligiously, for he has borne testimony in pub-
lic that plurality of wives was revealed to
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and that it was
a true principle. And had he given such a
promise, what assurance could he have had
that this constituents would obey, when he
knew that they had accepted that principle
as a part of their religious faith.
	Second: they also state that President
John Taylor while in France in 1853, then
having five wives, denied IN TOTO the ex-
istence of polygamy among the Mormons.
Here the memorialists are in error again.
In answer to this I will make a quotation
from the work entitled, "Three nights pub-
lic discussion between the Reverends C. W.
Cleeve, James Robertson, and Philip Cater,
and Elder John Taylor; on the 11, of July
1850 at Boulogne-sur-mer, France."
	Elder John Taylor speaking in reference
to some works published of an obscene
character referring to this people, says;
	We are accused here of polygamy and
actions the most indelicate, obscene and
disgusting, such as none but a corrupt and
depraved heart could have contrived, these
things are too outrageous to admit of belief,
therefore leaving the sisters of the white

[Column 2]

veil, the black veil and all other veils
with those gentlemen to dispose of togeth-
er with their authors as they think best. I
shall content myself by reading our views
of chastity and marriage, from a work pub-
lished by us.
	I fail to see any denial of plurality of
wives in the above extract and failed to do
so at the time, and wondered that he did
not do so, as the revelation on that subject
was not published until 1852, and think
his hearers had on some kind of very thick
veils or they could have seen it.
	Thirdly; they accuse the "Deseret News"
of casting reproach on the Supreme Court
of the Unitid States, that the decision in
the Reynolds case was rendered under pop-
ular pressure by judges who are feeble wit-
ted and cloudy minded.
	The memorialists had "Deseret News"
in such large letters before their eyes that
they failed to see the accusations of many
Eastern papers far more derogatory, even
hinting that these same judges accepted
$ 250,000 for their decision in the Electoral
College case.
	We have had the skimmed milk now
for the cream.
	Fourth; they ask Congress to so amend
the act of 1862 that it may become opera-
tive by making the general reputation of
conjugal relations proof of marriage and
living together in polygamy to constitute
the offence.
	Oh! Oh! Oh! just to think of Congress
making such a law. What would become
of them if they did, our penitenitaries would
be filled full of men who fill high positions
and are honored members of the best so-
ciety, and there would be but few left to
receive Anti-Polygamy petitions. If re-
port says true, the honorable petitioners
might have spared themselves the time
and expense of sending their petition: were
it granted it would strike home too close,
"for those that live in glass houses dare
not throw stones.
	MARY.
Grantsville, April 6, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMENTS ON THE ANTI-POLYGAMY
