A Prince of Ur. Homespun. (continued.) "Who is Sarai?" again bellowed the King. Suddenly there rang through the audience chamber the long and blood-curdling cry of a woman. "Give speech! What is that?" cried the king. Scarcely had the vibrations ceased before a woman, clothed in pure white, her dark and glossy hair falling about her, unbound under her thin streaming veil, which covered face and form in a white mask, crossed the room with flying, white-sandaled feet, and thrusting away the arm of the soldier who barred her approach, she flung wildest abandon.at the king's feet, throwing out her arms in grief's herself "My lord, my royal kinsman — lord of the Euphrates— near my cry! Give heed to my tears." "What now, what now! Give speech her place upon thy wandering tongue three; brief, as befits a warrior's daughter." "My lord, daughters of this house, converted to the true religion of God our eternal Father, themselves descendants of Gush, but baptized into the religion of Father Noah and Adam, these three carried maidens, pure as when they left their mother's breasts have been this very hour from these gates, to be offered as human" What sacrifices to Terah— altar of Elkanah." dedicate the iron this? now— who is Thy daughter surely! None other would wear the white linen of the royal household— what now? What now?" "My over-lord, she is my son's daughter,” answered Terah, his dry throat making speech painful. "She is far from her duty in thus breaking into your presence, no matter what the provocation." " "Shall a royal princess have no rights to plead for lite.” Thus gravely spoke Abram, who now stood very close to his father's side. "Hold thy speech, Abram," cried Nimrod roughly. Thou dost meddle too much. This is my affair. The princess hath appealed to me. What is thy name, damsel?" asked Nimrod. "My name, sire — my name is Sarai!" The princess bowed again at the foot of the throne, her glorious hair sweeping around her, under the meshes of her thin veil. "Then these are the Prince Abram and the Princess Sarai," 
 growled Nimrod, in his beard, his deep voice rolling Hke an angry flood over the bowed head of the princess. Turning to Abram, he demanded: "Who told thee to set thy face against the religion of Assyria? Who told thee to plead a cause of which thou hast no right? Fall back, bold prince. I like thee not so near mine own sacred person." hate. king's frown was black with high displeasure and bitter. The "May I speak, your gracious majesty, god of the Euphrates and lord of the two worlds — consort of the Moon-goddess and master of the mighty Ishtar?" The high-sounding titles with which his courtiers had endowed him were spoken with melodious unction by Mardan. The young and perfumed prince kneeled — nay bowed — to the earth in deep devotion as he caught the bold eyes of his father Nimrod with another familiar secret sign. "Speak on, Mardan. I may not like thy speech, for I am finding many hidden snares in Terah's household. But speak on!" The pale and sensual face of Mardan was raised in smiling worship to the king, and his popping light brown eyes and the thin, yet curling hair over his high and narrow brows, gave him the air of a courtier and sycophant. "Rise, my weakling! Tell thy story!" "Is it not meet that my lord and god should be received in this great city of Ur by the smoking sacrifice of human flesh? What greater testimonial can we offer thee than the broken body and the spilt blood of adoring human hearts?" The lust of blood was very keen in Nimrod, and he now recognized in his once cowardly son Mardan, a man after his own heart. The effeminate youth reared himself loftily, and struck an attitude of graceful, studied abandon, so close to his distressed old kinsman Terah, that Mardan could feel the hot breath of his aged relative thick upon his breast. But Mardan was now to make the supreme effort of his life. "Sire— Lord of all the earth, you see before you a convert to the true religion of the great Assyrian nation. I was reared — as thou knowest, gracious potentate — according to thine own decree, by this old man. Satrap Terah, than whom no truer, kinglier man doth live upon this, thy footstool. He hath been guardian, friend of my childhood days, idol of my youth and younger manhood. He has ever sought your gracious majesty's welfare; and even when he must at times come into silent opposition to the will of his old father Shem — now king of Salem — because of certain uncompromising and childish virtues in old Father Shem's peculiar scheme of life, this grand old man has A PRINCE OF UR. 539 been the friend, the champion of your majesty. When your edict was issued forbidding the Prince Terah to confer the priesthood upon any of his own descendants was communicated to him, his mighty heart and soul rose to the grandeur of that lofty possibilities, and he bowed in meek submission to your will." Terah stirred uneasily in his seat. He had heard this smooth and oily flattering recital of his own adherence and submission to Nimrod, given by this subtle descendant of Nimrod before; but never had it struck upon his ear with quite the same meaning as it now bore to his startled senses. Was it possible that the clear and correct conceptions of his grandson Abram, who was also listening to this very two-edged explanation, was ideals and views in another communicating itself of Terah's once somewhat hazy light at the matter of this issue. "Not one soul in all this household has received the imposition of hands by one having authority in the ancient order of the priesthood, save and except only this rebel Abram, who received the ordination under the hands of Father Shem when yet a child in Salem. Myself, I now scorn to remember and bear record that I too was thus ordained in early youth by that great, yet narrow and bigoted partisan forefather of us all — Noah. I grew up in fear of the power of that priesthood, fear of doing violence to its mandates if I so much as stood in admiration before a statue of your own lordly person — my dear sire and Lord Merodach. And that, too, when my old kinsman, this brave old Terah, had caused such idols to be shaped and molded in his own workshops by the cunning hand of Azzi-jaami."

"Who, pray, is Azzi-jaami?" asked the king.

"He is thy slave from Lower Mesopotamia. He hath the most skilled cunning in artificing brass and metal that hath been seen in all the valley of the Euphrates. He hath been converted to the old, foolish, worn-out Semitic teachings held even now by my traitorous cousin Abram, but long since discarded by thy son who speaketh, and by thy servant Terah."

"Speak for thyself, Mardan," growled Terah, angrily, yet low in his beard.

"When the three daughters of this idol-maker, Azzi-jaami, grew to womanhood, tall as cedars of Lebanon, full-hipped, full-bosomed, with coral lips and glossy blue-black hair and eyes that swam in a liquid sea of blue-white enticement — my fair cousins Tscha and Irit, whose slave-maidens these are, required them last night to accompany themselves to the pavilion, there to go out upon the sacred pavements of the goddess Ishtar, and there to await the invitation which should usher them properly into Babylonian mysteries and thus begin their work of procreation. I submit to you that this request was neither more


nor less than compliance with the known laws, social and state, which govern this kingdom of Assyria."

"Well, well!" asked the king, impatiently.

"These foolish Cushite virgins refused to submit. They claim their direct inheritance through the sacred loins of Ham as protection to them in their adherence to the religious absurdities and quaint old-world beliefs of this disloyal Prince Abram."

The name Abram stirred all the evil passions of the king. He glanced gloomily at the prince, who stood with folded arms across his breast.

"Let Elkanah's sacrificial altar be prepared for the three black maidens. I will myself officiate!" Thus spoke the king, as he gazed intently upon the prostrate figure of the white-robed Princess Sarai kneeling on the throne steps below him. He was determined to see her face.

With a stilled cry of terror and woe, the girl raised her head as he pronounced the sentence, and as she did so, the king tore the veil from her face. At full sight of her glorious beauty, he sank heavily in his seat, his glaring eyes feasting on her face.

"God of my fathers — this is Ishtar; her incarnation is before me — star of a thousand heavens — gleaming moon of glory — who and what art thou?"

The huge form of the king bent over the stately, yet delicate, form of the girl at his feet, his wicked eyes glowed between their withered lids and sparkled with the fires of hell; his senile lips moved on and his mumbling phrases were lost in the quiver of his heavily-bearded lips.

Cowering like a lily beat down by a tempest, Sarai threw her arms above her head, and with one swift spring, she was upon her feet; but the king was as quick, and he seized her quivering body in his huge arms.

With the rush of a mountain cloud-burst, Abram flung himself upon the treacherous king, and with a sudden twist of his own knee, he had wrenched the limbs of this giant, like spindles. A blow beneath the ear, and the huge arms relaxed, and the girl was free.

"Back, slaves, minions; back, I say! Death is free to him who dares to set one foot forward!" cried Abram. His towering form, almost as tall as the king's own, flashed white as his outer abayah fell away and left him clothed only in his gleaming white robe. The soldiers cowered before his furious onslaught.

Lot, Terah, a host of the lords of the desert, crowded about Abram. With a cry of "Liberty!" they fought down the soldiers of the king, and Abram fought his way out of the hall, guarding his kinswoman as they fled.

(to be continued.)