EDITORIAL

.


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor Susa Young Gates
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. II. DECEMBER, 1915. No. 12.

THE END OF THIS YEAR'S TODAYS.

Over the sun-bright face of yesterday falls the dawn-lit veil of today. The twilight of tonight forms the mysterious womb of tomorrow. Yesterdays, todays, and tomorrows come and go, and lo the year is over! Into the past fade the todays, while tomorrow creeps silently to our knees.

They are our children ? ye mothers of today ? these yesterdays of ours. Born of our travail and struggle, those yesterdays came into life, throbbed and accomplished for a brief hour, and faded into the tomb of forgetfulness. Oh, those yesterdays! Lovely they were in their dawning youth, bright with promise, vigorous with hope. The sweating noon-tide found them at their prime, and vanquished or was vanquished by their mature powers. The effulgent afternoons completed struggles or prolonged hope ? modified failure or dulled despair. The long twilight floating slowly over, calmed all tempests, stilled all enterprise. And the nights took our child-yesterdays in their bosoms as Mother Earth absorbs her children's dust, closing the eyes of hope and folding effort into the silence of death's repose.

EDITORIAL. 547

But they were good yesterdays ? very good. We loved them, every one. Even when their sad faces were scarred with defeat, and their broken hearts were cankered with disappointments ? for they were ours; all we had. They were our possibilities and our opportunities. It matters little how they treated us, in their short lives; it matters much how we treated them. For out of every defeat they brought us, we could, if we would, press a vial of perfumed triumph. We may have suffered much, but in that suffering, we may have conquered more.

Treat them tenderly, old Time, our beloved yesterdays. Fold them sweetly to rest, till we shall meet them gladly or shamefacedly at the bar of justice in the divine tomorrow. We have loved them or scorned them, according to our measure, and now ? at this fading of this year's today into the next year's tomorrow, we mothers of our yesterdays lay them softly by, wrapped in the tissues of our love, while we water their graves with the tears of memory.

Ah, my precious today of this year, linger near me with your twilight thoughts, until some stern resolve takes conception within me to make of my beloved tomorrows of the coming year the brave, true, sympathetic todays that shine before my eyes of faith with promise of fulfillment.

GENEALOGICAL CLASSES.

The bishop of the Tenth ward in this city presented the Relief Society with enough of our genealogical blanks for every person in the ward, so that the genealogical data could be secured at once. Duplicates are prepared, both the individual and the ward being thus supplied. These ward records will be preserved. We commend this example to other generous and progressive bishops.

Classes in Genealogy have been opened in the Bishop's Building for Salt Lake City and county stakes. The Monday afternoon class deals with the history of surnames, is an advanced course, and is under the charge of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board ? instructors, Mesdames Susa Young Gates, Amy Brown Lyman, and Janette A. Hyde. The Wednesday evening class is a beginners' class for men principally, and will present the six lesson course given in stake classes. The instructor is Elder Nephi Anderson. There is no charge for either class, and all interested are invited to attend.

Guide Lessons.

Lesson I.
Theology and Testimony.

First Week,' January, 4, 1916.

Subject: Women of the Bible.

EVE.

The character of our great Mother Eve is that of all her daughters, in embryo. What she was we are or may be. She was the great prototype of us all. Our virtues, our faults, these rested within her as the full grown blossom nestles in the green calyx of the rose. Some day, we shall all see her and know her as she is. For she was a very real, a very human, and a very god-like mother.

Her name signifies life ? the mother of all living. Chief among her characteristics was that of womanliness. She was quite content to see her own life mirrored in that of her husband and of her sons. And yet, from the accounts we have of her, she was possessed of some dominant characteristics. For she had of that kind of courage which is compounded of daring and recklessness; she dared to disobey, when her husband, more cautious and more alive to the dangers of disobedience, refused to break the first great law. It is true that she was deceived. She unknowingly put her heavenly Father at defiance ? but she also thought that a greater blessing would follow ? by the courage she showed in her act of disobedience. What daughter of hers would not also suffer, if husband or children could be helped, taught, saved? Eve was a compound of curiosity and unselfish willingness to suffer that her loved ones might enjoy.

Eve was beautiful, with all that makes for loveliness, for grace, for dignity, for winsomeness, for sweet and gracious womanliness ? this was Eve. She was guileless and trusting, with that sweet independent relinquishment of her own will to that of her husband's which has and does mark all her daughters who are true women, and who have true, righteous men to lead them. After her fall Eve trusted and obeyed her husband, because he was both wiser and greater than she. There lives nor has lived any woman so wise, so great, but that somewhere there is a man

GUIDE LESSONS. 549

greater, wiser, and eminently fitted to become her mate because of these superior qualities. So with Eve. She loved and obeyed her husband, because it was a happiness so to do.

The Pearl of Great Price contains the most enlightening view of Eve given in any book. Read the fifth chapter for the account of Eve and her disobedient act, and note particularly the majesty and sweetness of her attitude as given in the eleventh verse: "And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgressions, we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient."

This touching picture supplements the Book of Mormon account as given in II Nephi 2:22-25. And it is this illuminating glimpse of Eve which makes all women akin, and which is at once their weakness and their glory. Woman may lack discretion at times, but she is usually ready to repent, to climb with her torn hands back to the summit from which she has been flung. Whatever the first sin may have been, Eve was also the first to suffer its consequences. In turn she gave courage, faith, encouragement and hope to her husband, as do her righteous daughters always. Eve was not deserted by her loyal husband, but he shared both her sin and her reward. He "told on her," that is true; but he did not desert her, as so many of Adam's sons have done since. She was to be cast out of the garden of innocence ? so Adam elected to share her trial and her knowledge.

Eve was no doubt the first worker in the arts and crafts. She used her nimble fingers and her quick brain to invent equipment and to give pleasure. She was not a creator, nor has she ever been so: she was and is the great developer. She catches a glimpse of a truth veiled to man, and carries it far beyond his slower powers of development.

Eve is and was the grandest, loveliest and most exquisite woman who ever lived.

Note. ? Study carefully the two accounts of Eve's creation, given in the first and second chapters of Genesis. The first account is called the Eloheistic, the second the Jehovistic ? the first deals, most probably, in eternal terms. The twenty-seventh verse of the first chapter, says: "So God created man" (forever and ever) "in his own image, in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them." This is all the proof that is necessary of the existence in heaven of father and mother, as parts of the eternal parenthood. The second account, it may be surmized, deals in symbols: the creation of Eve from Adam's side is the literal figure of every child's creation.


THEOLOGY QUESTIONS.

Where will you find the character of Eve displayed?
What is the meaning of the word Eve?
Read the fifth chapter of the Pearl of Great Price.
Read the first, second and third chapters of Genesis.
What can you say of Eve's courage?
What of her humility?
What do you think Eve would say to a mother of today who prevented child bearing?
Give your own view of the life and character of Mother Eve.

Lesson II.
Work and Business.

Second Week, January 11.

Lesson III.
Genealogy and Art.

Third Week, January 18.

GENEALOGY.

There is such a wide difference between the conditions of study and work in this great Society, such variations of need and requirement, that it becomes at times difficult to adjust our lesson work to all classes. In this study of genealogy, for instance, some branches, and some stakes, have covered the lessons given last year twice over. While others have not yet begun to work upon them. Thus we have both beginners and graduates, as it were, to consider and plan for.

The General Board in considering this matter, have decided to spend the coming winter months in the study and practice of individual records: basing our work upon the L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, as arranged by Elder D. M. McAllister, and approved by the Church Authorities. It may well be that some stakes have already done this with great success and satisfaction. However, they, too must be content to follow along the current of our main stream, and no doubt there will be some phases of

GUIDE LESSONS. 551

the work thus to be presented which will be new, even to the advanced classes.

In the fall, beginning with our September work, we shall take up the study of surnames, which will be fitted especially to advanced workers. And the beginners can always go back and take the outlines given in this Magazine during the year 1915, supplemented by the standard Lesson Book published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. This will constitute a primary and an advanced grade of genealogical students.

This first lesson is, after all, not so much a study as a duty. We give three practical ways of advancing the great and growing cause of Genealogy in this Church. We wish our Relief Society sisters, each and every one, to emphasize the three following points in their coming winter's work:

1. Individual sheet must be prepared of every Relief Society member.
2. All who can should join the Genealogical Society of Utah, and persuade others to do so.
3. Each member of the Relief Society is to spend at least one day annually in the Temple in her district, or arrange for a woman to take her place.

We wish, in point No. 1, to urge each member of this Society to write out today the information required on the blank sample sheet of the McAllister Living Record. Some may have done this already; then let them help others to do likewise. We all think we know a great deal about ourselves; but none realize how little we know till we try to fill up all this data required. In future lessons, we will discuss some problems of this individual work. But this month, begin by writing your own sheet out.

In point No. 2, we desire to throw all our influence into securing life and annual members for the Genealogical Society of Utah. Why? Because it is right to do so. There are several reasons for this; first, the Society was formed to help the Saints get records of their dead. Second, books are purchased with every dollar of membership fees so paid in. And they need fifty thousand books in that library instead of three thousand, which they now have. Third, we are to have splendid library quarters in the new Church Administration building, and we want to get the necessary books to make of our library the most complete and useful in the world.

If the results of this great European war were to involve the destruction of the vast stores of books and manuscripts now in the British museum or in the royal libraries in other countries, where would this people look for records? Now is the accepted time. Membership in the


Society costs one dollar a year (one dollar besides for the first year as an initiation fee), or only ten dollars for a life membership. Other societies in the world charge from five to ten dollars a year, and the life membership is from fifty to one hundred dollars. Every adult in this Church should be a member of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Send to the secretary of that Society, at the Historian's Office, for further particulars, and for membership blanks.

Point No. 3 is but stating the evident duty and responsibility which is laid on each woman in the Church; that is, attendance of each woman at least one day annually at the Temple in her district, or where that is really impossible, to see that some woman does this for her. Certainly every Relief Society member will be glad to meet this requirement, and some will do much more than one day's work. But if it is done, there will not be room in the temples now built, to comfortably accommodate forty-five thousand women to go even for one day into the temples, in addition to the crowds already assembling there. Think what such a movement would mean ? the imperative need for other temples in other selected places. And what does that mean? You women who love the gospel, answer.

QUESTIONS.

How will you fill out your individual sheet?
What steps will you take to join the Genealogical Society of Utah?
How many days do you spend in a temple annually?
What do you think about building more temples?
What prophecy can you relate concerning temples in this country?

Exercise. Have each person present write out her data on a blank sheet.

ART AND ARCHITECTURE FOR 1916.

"Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man, what God hath prepared for those who love Him." ? Words of Jesus.

I. LANDSCAPE STUDY.

Study of the Advance of the Seasons, Twilight Observations, and "Out of Doors" Parties.

GUIDE LESSONS. 
 STUDY OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE.

History of Architecture, by George M. Allen, B. S., E. M., University of Utah, Master of Architecture, Columbia University.

Devotees and their Shrines, pp. 120-131.

INTRODUCTION.

I am persuaded that the earth is heaven just as completely as that heaven will be that I hope to reach, when I finish my journey's end in this probation. I believe my duty is to discover this heaven on this side of the mountain, so that in a measure I may be prepared to appreciate that beautiful place I hope to reach after the hard climb is finished.

A prophet said: "Man is that he might have joy." Nothing is more joyful to man than the contemplation of the handiwork of God, but there must be some mystery and the element of surprise ? something new to produce fullest joy. The same routine day after day, and year after year, naturally suppresses the emotional and intuitional natures, which are our best heritages. No matter how complete routine work may become, it is possible to keep alive within our breasts our best powers and capabilities. We may rise out of our conventional lives every day ? perhaps many times a day ? and feel the divinity within us by opening our hearts and souls to the beauty with which our heavenly Father has surrounded us.

A passing shadow is sufficient to kindle a spark of gratitude and of appreciation for a thing of beauty. Every manifestation of nature, the season's changes, the different hours of the day, the variations of light, the shift of color, the varieties of form, have within them wonderful charm to the awakened soul. Riches, however desirable, are not necessary to an appreciation of these manifestations in which we are constantly enveloped. Not even the wealthiest can have a corner on a twilight, a moonlight, or even a rainbow. No one, however great, can take upon himself the autumn colors, steal the gloaming that envelopes the river bank, nor rob the starlight of its mystery. And yet some of us feel poor!

It is our duty as Latter-day Saints to make our best endeavor to attune ourselves to the Universe. In taking note of things beautiful, we can train our finer selves, and get away from our baser natures, growing nearer to God, and more like Him. Let us take at least a few moments each day to study natural things about us, and try to disengage ourselves from those shallow and often expensive pleasures of life, which dull our senses, and our powers to understand our true relation to the universe.


In doing this, we will learn to better understand our indebtedness for God's favors, in which we live and breathe and have our being.

In connection with the art lesson this year, we are to take notice of the changes of the season. This may be better done by observing, from week to week, the same subject, such as a park or valley, or mountains, or lake-bank, noting change of color, leaf-budding, fall of leaves, etc. In April, at our conference time, we will show a series of water colors by James T. Harwood ? twenty-five in number ? painted during one year's time of the same subject ? Liberty park, or its environs. To understand these pictures, as we should, let us study the sky, earth, and verdure, in relation to each other. We must study what the artist calls "values." The sky is at times darker than the ground ? more often it is far lighter. By half closing the eyes, and looking through the lashes, it is more easy to discover values. Note the same scene at morning, bright sunlight, evening or twilight, starlight, moonlight, cloudy day, rainy weather, a snowy day, and tell when the sky is darkest, when the mountains are darkest, and when the ground is lighter than the sky, and vice versa.

ADVANCE OF THE SEASON: WINTER LANDSCAPE.

a. Describe the mountain creek as to color and form, winding down into the valley, during the snow season.
b. Describe your best skating pond.
c. Describe the character of your trees and foliage during, or just after, a snow storm.
d. Describe the sheds and fences as to color and shape during a snow storm, and tell what change comes in color when the sun shines brightly upon them. What is the color of the snow in sunshine; what color are its shadows? Describe the effect of the scene under a passing cloud.
e. Which is lighter, the sky or the snow blanket during sunshine?
f. During shadow from overhanging clouds?
g. What are the lightest and darkest notes of color, in the snow scene, during sunlight?
h. Describe a January thaw.
i. Describe the melting and freezing time, with its icicles, etc.

TWILIGHT STUDY.

a. What change of color is made in the sky from the moment the sun is lost from view until the stars appear? The nature of the sky and the clouds seems to be to reflect the glory of the approaching or of the sinking sun. Twilight is like a memory of things we love most. Do you like the twilight?