DECEMBER, 1915. No. 12.

THE CHRISTMAS-TIDE.

Just now when all our thoughts are turning to the Savior's birth upon this dear old earth, we naturally turn our eyes to some famous personality that an artist's fancy has crystallized and pictured as the ideal Madonna.

Said an odd little girl one day, "Mother, the Savior doesn't love me." "Oh, yes, he does," replied the shocked mother. "Why do you speak so?" "Well, if he did," replied the baby, "he would come and see me." After careful explanations by the mother, the child finally concluded with, "Anyway, if he can't come, why don't he send me his photograph?"

That has become a pressing need with modern man. He must see in order to grasp, to comprehend, to believe. It is in Christ's providences that we have nothing left on canvas to help us to a knowledge of his earthly perfection. Lacking this, artists of all ages have delighted in painting him as best they might, at every stage and in every recorded incident of his life. The great picture galleries are filled with these pictures, of all grades of excellence.

Few Latter-day Saints realize that we possess several old masterpieces, costly, rare, and strikingly beautiful. The picture of the Christ child and his mother, which forms our frontispiece, came from a famous collection which was carried to San Francisco by agents of Samuel Brannan, and by him sold to Alexander Badlam. Other wealthy Californians bought this and its


companion picture, and presented them to the Salt Lake Temple, when that sacred edifice was completed — where this lovely picture now is.

Note the exquisite bliss which smolders in the brooding eyes and tender lips of the mother; both joy of possession and agony of forecast mingle in the eyes which look out into futurity. The figure of the boy John is dimmed because the artist focuses his effects in the worshipful glance which the boy casts upon the holy pair. The Child claims our deepest thought and admiration. His is the face of a child, but the love and wisdom of those mysterious eyes thrill you with feelings akin to worship. All the details of drawing, coloring, and values are perfect in this picture. Our own artists tell us, that, faded as are the dimmed colors now, the world has lost the secret of this lovely coloring.

Every devout Jewish woman, after Moses, approached her motherhood with the trembling hope that she might bring forth the promised Messiah. He was to come — all knew that. Who should be his earthly mother — none knew. And so all mothers hoped and prayed. That may be one reason why Jewish women so longed for motherhood. And is it not the questioning hope lingering in Mary's eyes in this picture which can hardly grasp — as yet — the reality?

The second illustration, "Judith," is a famous old English painting presented to the Temple by a convert, Mrs. Everard, who was a wealthy dealer in art works in London, twenty years ago. She came here for a few months, bringing this picture with her to give to the Temple. The photograph cannot give the exquisite coloring of the picture, which flames with oriental beauty. But the charm of the composition, the striking beauty of the proud Hebrew face, with the glitter of determination shining through the brilliant eyes, the firm chin, the lines of strength in the rounded arms and hands — one of which grasps a sword, while the other grimly holds the severed head — these are details which make of this picture a masterpiece.

The story of Judith is as follows: Judith, a Jewish heroine, was the widow of Manasses, whose history is given in the apocryphal book which bears her name. Judith is represented as going out to the tent of Holofernes, an Assyrian general who was besieging Bethulia, the city in which she lived, charmed him with her beauty, and, taking advantage of the admission to his tent thus afforded to her, cut off his head with his own sword while he slept.

The last picture is really an art treasure of costliest value. We reprint the story of it as given by the brother who obtained it for the Temple:

Judith.
Now in the Salt Lake Temple.

Joseph Interpreting the Butler's and Baker's Dream.
Now in the Salt Lake Temple.

THE CHRISTMAS-TIDE. 525

"'Joseph interpreting the Butler's and Baker's Dream.' This great masterpiece was painted by Francois Gerard, a celebrated French historical painter, who was born in Rome, in 1770, and died in Paris, in 1836. He studied under David. By request of Napoleon, he painted 'The Battle of Austerlitz,' one of his masterpieces. Napoleon made him an officer of the Legion of Honor, Cavalier of St. Michael, and a member of the Royal Institute of Louis XVIII, as well as a Baron. As a figure painter, he ranked among the greatest of European artists of modern times. 'The Butler's and Baker's Dream' was painted by him, in 1815, and purchased by the agent of Joseph Bonaparte, the brother of the great Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1817, this picture was brought to America, with a large and valuable collection of paintings, and placed in Joseph Bonaparte's mansion at Point Breeze, near Bordertown, N. J. In 1839, Bonaparte sold his mansion, with all his valuable collection of paintings, this among them. At that sale, this picture brought $18,500. It was taken to Boston, and exhibited for charities, enriching their funds many thousands of dollars. It was sold for $12,000, in 1863, to Samuel Brannan, in San Francisco, from whose hands it passed into the possession of Alexander Badlam, who presented this picture to Bishop H. B. Clawson, Salt Lake City, to give to the Temple at the time of its dedication, in 1893."

We suggest that our thoughts this month dwell rather upon the gift of eternal life which was brought to this earth by the child Jesus, and whose message was revealed in modern times by the Prophet Joseph Smith, than upon pleasure and excitement. Serious reflections should form our Christmas musings, while the memory of the Christ child and his mother will render us the loving and wise companions we should all be to husbands and children, friends and associates — not forgetting the poor and the needy.

The practical ministrations of this Society to the sick and to the poor contribute a noble page to the history of this Church. Wide generosity, sweet sympathy, true charity, these, together with a wise restraint, a lack of maudlin sentimentality, and discretion in alms-giving, should make this holiday season beautiful and good, both to those who give and to those who receive. Inasmuch as we do good unto the least in the kingdom, we have rendered true worship unto Him.