[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Award Winners Relief Contest]

enters her work for the first time in the Annual Rehef Society Short Story Contest to emerge winner of first prize. Mrs. Eccles has for some time been writing prose, poetry, and fiction. Her early work was published in the Gold and Blue, a L. D. S. High school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the Playground System of Washington, D. C. She was at one time special reporter for the Deseret News with a column in each Saturday edition. She is at present contemplating the publication of her work in book form. She is an active Relief Society worker; prior to her recent move to Washington, D. C, she was Relief Society president of the Cleveland District of the Northern States Mission. Here is the corrected OCR transcription:
She longed to make him happy; and yet surely, the dear Lord would mete out to Joses a goodly portion for had he not been always a good catering Nazarene?
SPRINGTIME came again to Nazareth, the glorious spring time that only Nazareth can know. Lydia remained strong and hopeful through the brilliant sunshine and color. But when later the trees were barren and the low, dry hills offered endlessly in the distance, disturbing thoughts took hold of her, nervously. It was only a few months later that the signs for which everyone had watched and which everyone believed in came to pass.
Lydia knelt in a manger and honored the Shepherds and wise men, the Christ, the Savior of the world, was born. True, to a Jewish maiden, but not to the lovely Lydia.
It was not long after the coming of the Savior that the news came to Lydia. It was Joses who brought it to her, not as a mockery or in the spirit of exultation. Only that she might need him now a friend. For only Joses knew the disappointment Lydia could feel.
He found her kneeling above the low prayer stool. The folds of her lovely dress and veil fell in soft, loose folds about her. The light of hope and sweetness shone from her clear young eyes as she rose at Joses' entering.
He told her simply and reverently of the message of Christ's birth that had been carried over the land. Lydia sighed and stood before him, poised as if ready for flight. For one short moment she stood before him thus, while the light of hope faded from her face.
Joses watched her anguish. He took her two warm hands in his. "My Lydia," he said, "other sons and daughters of our Father will be sent to earth. Mayhap one will come yet to you that will fill your heart's need."
"Thank you, Joses, that my longing for the Son of God has been wrong in his sight?" Lydia asked.
"For you, my Lydia, there is no wrong," Joses replied. He put his arms tenderly about her. This time she did not draw back. The tears dried on her lashes. She took Joses' strong, kind hand in her own and dropping to her knees beside the little stool, she prayed.
A quiet peace came over her. Bless thou that other Jewish maiden who will joy in her little Son." Thus she prayed because her heart was pure.

Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City, now living in Washington, D.C., enters her work for the first time in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest by urging women of first prize, Mrs.
Eccles has for some time been interested in writing. She is the author of "The Children of Shabbat," "Gold and Blue," a L.D.S. high school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the Playground System of Washington, D.C. She was at one time special reporter for the Deseret News with a column in each Saturday edition. She is at present contemplating the publication of her wish in prose form.