[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Y.W.M.I.A. Observes Spafford]
mentality.
npHE novel, Boston Adventure, by Jean Stratford is receiving high praise.
Page 29
EDITORIAL
VOL. 32
JANUARY 1945
NO. 1
k/L Stone, in Lrlace of [Bread
"Or what man is there of you, if his son ask bread, will he give him a
stone?" (Matt. 7:9).
in all his daily conduct to train him to live in such a way that the Spirit of
the Lord may ever dwell with him. Any laxness in the strict observance of
the laws of the Church by his parents will be noted by a child, and may
have a lasting inﬂuence upon his future life. A mother who drinks tea or
coﬀee opens wide the door for her child to reject other parts of the Word of
Wisdom which she herself does observe. A father who allows liquor to be
served in his home, even though he himself does not partake of it, is
inviting his children to become partakers when they are grown. The use of
alcohol with its attendant misery and degradation is becoming more
widespread each day, and all that any Latter-day Saint parent can do, by
example and precept, to impress upon his children the tragic eﬀects which
alcohol has upon the lives of those who use it, is absolutely essential. These
are but two instances of the many which might be cited where a parent
oﬀers to his child a stone in place of bread.
In the matter of setting an example to one's children it might be proﬁtable
for Latter-day Saint parents also to consider the signiﬁcance of these words
of the Savior:
npHIS soul-searching question of the Savior recalls to one's mind the
almost sublime relationship which exists between a child and his parents—
the sweet dependency, utter trust, and conﬁdence of a child in his parents,

and the feeling of security enjoyed by the child because his parents ever
strive to provide a protecting bulwark between him, in his youth, and the
world at large. The parent, on his side, treasures his God-given eternal gift
and plans and dreams for his future joy with almost a selﬂess love.
In the early, formative years of a child's life before he has reached the years
of accountability at the age of eight, the foundation of his character is built
largely upon his observation of the actions of his parents and the training
that they are able to implant as a guide to his conduct. Rarely does a parent
fail to provide the necessary food for the full development of his child's
physical body; but, in the matter of his full spiritual growth, how often does
a man, ''if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?" These early years
are the golden time in which to feed a child the bread of life, the time to
train him to pray, to keep holy the Sabbath day, to pay his tithing, to
observe the Word of Wisdom, to uphold the Church authorities and
Page 30
Verily, verily, I say unto you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what
he
seeth the Father do: for what things so been lax in the example he has set
nrelfs^^aohn ^^.^Y^'"' ^""^^^ *^^ ^""^ his child, set his house in order, and
1 ewise yo n 5.19J. provide at all times for his child the
At the beginning of a new year, bread of everlasting life,
then, let any parent who may have M.C.S.
afke y.W.JTlM.X ©Lerves 3ts ^JUiamona ^uoilee
npHE Y.W.M.I.A. observed its the earnestness with which the
Diamond Jubilee, Tuesday, No daughters of President Young ac-
vember 28, 1944, with impressive cepted their assignment as members
services conducted in the Lion of the Association, and also gave in-

House in the same room where teresting statistics showing its activ-
President Brigham Young assembled ities and growth. Among the hon-
his daughters seventy-ﬁve years ago ored guests were Ruth May Fox, age
and eﬀected an organization where ninety-one, only living past presi-
by the daughters of Israel might dent of the organization who de-
' get a living testimony of the truth" lightfully reminisced, and two of
and ''improve in everything that is President Young's daughters, Mrs.
good and beautiful/' This Associa Mabel Y. Sanborn and Mrs. Fannie
tion originally known as the Re Y. Clayton. A very impressive and
trenchment Association, later as the appropriate feature of the occasion
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement was the marking of the organization
Association, and at present as the room by an artistic plaque bearing
