[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Poem | Title: Contest Award Winners Eliza Contest]

AWARD WINNERS Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1944 issue of the Magazine and which closed September 15, 1944. The first prize of thirty-five dollars is awarded to Ethel Newman Eccles, 4408
First Place, N. E., Washington, D. C., for her story "Rock Roses of Nazareth." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Vesta Pierce Crawford, 1067
East 5th South, Salt Lake City, for her story "The Bureau." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Dorothy Clapp Robinson, 119
Eiden Drive, Boise, Idaho, for her story "Though A Host Encamp Against Thee." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1945. Prize-vanning stories become the property of the General Page 12
Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at regular Magazine rate at the time of publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Thirty-one manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1944.
This contest is stimulating Latter-day Saint women to do creative writing in the field of fiction. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The General Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their excellent service in selecting the prize-winning stories, and acknowledges with appreciation the work of the General Board's short story contest committee. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in the Magazine as follows: January 1945 "Rock Roses of Nazareth" by Ethel Newman Eccles; February 1945 "The Bureau"
by Vesta Pierce Crawford; March 1945 "Though A Host Encamp Against Thee" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson. Winning Story Annual Relief Society Snort Story Contest First Prize Story Rock Roses of Nazareth Ethel Newman Eccles A bluish mist hung over the silent little village.