[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Sunset on New Years Cottam]
Page 12
Board and may not be published by others except by written permission
from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish
any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at regular
Magazine rate at the time of publication. A writer who has received ﬁrst
prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again
eligible to enter the contest.
Thirty-one manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1944. This contest
is stimulating Latter-day Saint women to do creative writing in the ﬁeld of
ﬁction.
The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and
expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The
General Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their excellent service
in selecting the prize-winning stories, and acknowledges with appreciation
the work of the General Board's short story contest committee.
Stories, together v^th photographs of the award-winning contestants, will
appear in the Magazine as follows: January 1945 "Rock Roses of Nazareth"
by Ethel Newman Ec-cles; February 1945 "The Bureau" by Vesta Pierce
Crawford; March 1945 "Tliough A Host Encamp Against Thee" by
Dorothy Clapp Robinson.
Lrnze- vl/inning Story
Jxnnual LKelief Society Snort Story L^ontest
First Prize Story
Rock Roses of Nazareth
Ethel Newman Eccles
A bluish mist hung over the silent little village. The murky darkness trailed
oﬀ into pale gray above the rolling hills in the distance. Spring in Nazareth
was a paradise, and it was spring.
Nazareth lay among the hills 1200 feet above the sea. It could be reached
from the fertile plain below only by a tedious climb through a narrow,

steep, and rough mountain path.
Here lived Lydia. Her house was one of the ﬁnest; its courtyard one of the
most comfortable, and its roof commanded an unsurpassed view. Here she
sat in her leisure hours by the window. With soft, brown eyes she looked
across the low-roofed houses, built of yellow-white limestone, so dazzling
in the sun. From her smooth forehead fell the white woven veil of the
young Jewish maiden. It fell in weighty folds about her slender ﬁgure. Her
dress was low-cut, and of the ﬁnest fabric. It spread about her lovely,
sandal-clad feet in cascades of purest white. The room was bare save for a
few mats lying evenly against the wall. The water jars stood before the
door.
The landscape of distant hills, the nearer view of square-roofed houses with
their purity of line and color.
ETHEL NEWMAN ECCLES
and the immaculate interior of the tiny house well beﬁtted the spirit of the
beautiful Jewish maiden, for Lydia's heart was pure.
Many a long day this lovely girl had gone about her household chores with
one, great, overwhelming thought lighting the way: The Christ, yes, he was
to come; to be born as a tiny babe; and greatest of all great joys, he was to

come to a Jewish maiden.
Page B
Lydia raised herself from the low and pushed him away. ''No, Joses,"
stool. She passed her hand lightly she said, ''the Christ has not yet
over her forehead and down her come to earth. Let us forget that
cheeks to her rounding throat, we once had thoughts for each oth-
Through the soft folds of her dress er." The pallor of her face told
she touched her slender ﬁgure. Si him that she had reached this de-
lently she bowed her head in thanks cision after many sleepless nights,
giving for this strength and loveli In that moment the young Jewish
ness. For might not the Holy Fa boy knew that Lydia would live only
ther see ﬁt to crown her womanhood for the coming of the Son of God.
with the greatest of all the desires Each day Joses came as of other
of a Jewish maiden: to be the moth days. He carried her water jars and
er of the Christ? attended to the little tasks that
Lydia hugged the thought to her needed to be done. Always he fol-
heart. In her strong young arms she lowed the stately moving Lydia with
held, in her mind's eye, the tiny body hungering eyes. Always she was
of her little son. And, in the over kind, always grateful, but always liv-
whelming joyousness at the thought, ing in the dreamy future. For her
she prayed, in the purity of her soul, there was but one great thought:
that she, of all the Jewish maidens, the Christ would come to a Jewish

might be the one chosen to bear maiden, pure of heart. For this
God's Son. Lydia lived.
Darkness fell, and still Lydia Day followed day, and her long-knelt by the
little white stool, her ing became more intense. More and head bowed in
prayer and her heart more she lived to herself, and more beating in wild
desire. A strange and more shut Joses away from her peace came over her,
an assurance life. She busied herself in her gar-that the Holy Father, with
his un den, which yielded for her sweet derstanding kindness, was near;
that tending red anemone, pink phlox, he had heard her prayer, she was
rock roses, and the asphodel. On sure. Would he answer it? her day she
went to the synagogue. The enveloping peace that had but only by the back
street, and come to her in this sweet hour gave veiled.
her hope, enveloping, heavenly Joses still brought the water jars, hope. but
never lingered into the shadowy It was here that Joses found her evenings.
Finally he came not at when he came with jars of fresh all. Lydia drew the
water from the water from the well. Joses, too, had well, and the tasks that
were too one great hope—that some day Lyd heavy for her were left
undone, ia would become his wife; for were From her window she could
see they not of marriageable age and of Joses often walking with other Jew-
the same station? ish maidens along the sloping vine-He stepped lightly
over the thres yards, or hear his pleasant laugh rise hold, leaving his sandals
outside. He clear from among the white and lifted Lydia to her feet and
vvdth scarlet blossoms of orange and strong arms drew her to him. Gent
pomegranate. She turned from the ly she put her hands to his shoulders
temptation to call Joses back to her.
She longed to make him happy; and loose folds about her. The light of
yet, surely, the dear Lord would hope and sweetness shone from her
meet out to Joses a goodly portion, clear young eyes as she rose at Joses'
for had he not been always a good entering.
Nazarene? He told her simply and reverently
of the message of Christ's birth that

CPRINGTIME came again to had been carried over the land. Ly-
Nazareth; the glorious spring dia rose and stood before him, poised
time that only Nazareth can know, as if ready for ﬂight. For one short
Lydia remained joyous and hope moment she stood before him thus,
ful through the brilliant sunshine while the light of hope faded from
and color. But when later the trees her face.
were barren and the low, dry hills Joses watched her anguish. He
spread endlessly in the distance, dis took her two warm hands in his.
turbing thoughts took hold of her, ''My Lydia," he said, ''other sons
tortuously. It was only a few and daughters of our Father will be
months later that the signs for which sent to earth. Mayhap one will come
everyone watched, and which every yet to you that will ﬁll your heart's
one knew, came to pass. longing."
Cradled in a manger and honored "Think you, Joses, that my long-by
shepherds and wise men, the ing for the Son of God has been Christ, the
Savior of the world, was wrong in his sight?" Lydia asked, born. True, to a
Jewish maiden, but "For you, my Lydia, there is no not to the lovely Lydia.
wrong," Joses replied. He put his It was not long after the coming arms
tenderly about her. This time of the Savior that the news came to she did
not draw back. The tears Lydia. It was Joses who brought it dried on her
lashes. She took Joses' to her; not as a mockery or in the strong, kind hand
in her own and spirit of exultation. Only that she dropping to her knees
beside the lit-might need him now—a friend. For tie stool, she prayed, only
Joses knew the disappointment A quiet peace came over her. Lydia could
feel. "Bless thou that other Jewish maid-He found her kneeling above the
en with joy in her little Son." Thus low prayer stool. The folds of her she
prayed because her heart was lovely dress and veil fell in soft, pure.
Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City now living in