[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Ode to Child Stutz]

ODE TO CHILD PSYCHOLOGY Mildred R. Stutz I filled my head with a store of knowledge From doctors, pamphlets, hospitals and college. I studied eugenics, genetics, and zoo, I've reaped information wherever I go. I delved through psychology and child care. Vitamins, diets, clothing, and hair, Punishment, teething, and education, Corrective guidance and sanitation. My schedule told me just what to do, I fed him at six, at ten, and at two. A bath at nine-forty then sleep 'till eleven, And his cod-liver oil came strictly at seven. He was in bed by six?although he might shout, The door was closed tight and the lights were turned out. With such competent training, I can't comprehend Why it's all forgotten before he turns ten. He's the subject, the object, and source of my wrath. It's a full day's job to give him a bath. He crawls through the windows and slides down the stairs. His falsetto soprano rends the air. He bangs the door and swings on the gate. He kicks up the flowers, and comes to meals late. He teases, he kisses, he stumbles, he shouts, He questions, he answers, he argues, he doubts. I've finally concluded that it's useless complaining. For boys will be boys in spite of their training. MANY NEW COURSES IN OVER FORTY DEPARTMENTS begin with the WINTER QUARTER January 3, 1945
Homemaking Social Work Bible Literature Arts and Crafts The Extension Division offers Home Study Courses for those who cannot Enroll for Residence Work Current catalogue may be had by writing to President's Office Brigham Young University PROVO. UTAH MUSIC We carry large stocks of music suitable for churches, schools and home use, arranged for vocal and instrumental solos, choirs, bands and orchestras. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Write to us for suggestions and material available. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1
East, Interesting Bible and Church History Lessons when you have: Irwin's Bible Commentary $2.50
Treasures from the Bible $2.50
Encyclopedia of Bible Life $4.95
The Handbook of the Restoration $2.50 700 pages, 80 titles of inspirational Latter-day Saint literature by 23 authors. Church History Map $1-50
Full colors, 32 x 60 inches. A popular visual aid for teaching Church History.