WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	It is a difficult task to outline in a few
paragraphs even the most important fea-
tures of a noble and useful life. The
real history must at best be left largely to
the imagination, we can only point out the
mile stones. The truest histories are re-
corded on the unwritten pages of life’s
annals, so we give but a faint glimpse of the
subject of this sketch.
	Dr. Shipp is the eldest daughter of Wil-
liam F. and Anna Reynolds, and was born
in Davis County, Iowa, January 20, 1847,
and came to Utah in her early childhood
with her parents, who settled in Pleasant
Grove, Utah County, where she was reared
a child of nature amid the wilds of our then
desert inland country, possessing few ad-
vantages of education, but her eager soul
thirsting for knowledge reached out beyond
all the meager possibilities of her girlhood,

[Column 2]
and she acquired an education enjoyed by
very few in those early days of toil and
hardship.
	On May 5th, 1866, she was married to
Milford B. Shipp, a man of learning and
intelligence, who at once recognized her
talents and marked out for her a literary
career. When the mother of five children,
and with the grand predominating charact-
eristic of motherhood thoroughly awakened
by a desire for the higher development of
her growing family, she bravely looked into
the new, and then unpopular sphere of la-
bor for women, and undertook the study of
medicine; having been a most devoted wife
and mother, it required a great effort to
leave her home and young children, but
realizing the benefits which must follow the
separation, not only to them and herself,
but to many others, she overcame her ten-
der longings for home and the hearthstone
for the good she might do, and in 1875
became the second woman in Utah attempt-
ing to master the seience of medicine and
entered the Woman’s Medical College of 
Pennsylvania.
	Dr. Shlpp has proved that the “tender-
est are the bravest.” While ardently en-
gaged in her studies at college she passed
through, with proud and faithful resigna-
tion, the hopeful and anxious period of
motherhood and gave birth to a beautiful
daughter, nor did the love and care for the
child hinder in any way the progress of the
mother’s studies, but on the contrary the
new joy but enhanced the pleasure of col-
lege life and practically relieved the lonely
heart, self-exiled from all other loved ones.
In 1888 Dr. Shipp not only obtained her de-
gree, but also received the highest compli-
ments and recommendations from the pro-
fessors, and ever since graduating has been
an undaunted, persistent worker in her pro-
fesssion, and is also very popular, especially
among her patients, for her beautiful sym-
pathetic bearing consoles the suffering one,
while her great self-control and dignity
gives one the most perfect confidence in her
ability.
	Possessing refined literary tastes she oc-
casionally rests her busy mind by reveling
in the pleasures of the Muses. At one
time she assisted her husband in the publi-
cation of a medical journal ‘‘The Sanitar-
ium,” and is at present engaged upon a
work designed especially for the benefit of
women. Her writings breathe of the spirit
of inspiration on grand and lofty themes and 
her poems especially are soulful, tender and
sweet. In all her busy professional and
literary duties she still finds time for social
duties and the cultivation of friendship, and
by numberless gentle acts demonstrates her
great capacity for loving and her just
claims for being loved. Her highly re-
ligious and intensely sympathetic soul nat-
urally calls her in the higher works for the
wider development of heart and brain and
the uplifting and comforting of God’s suf-
fering and sorrowing children. The ex-
qusitely sensitive and intellectual qualities
of her nature shine through the beautiful,
womanly features with refined and quiet
force that is irresistible. For her children,
now ten in number, have her most heroic
sacrifices been made and her wonderful
mother love has been the main inspiration
to all achievements, as it is the crowning
glory of her beautiful, unslfish and exem- 
plary life.
						LILLIE FREEZE.  
