WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
		STAR VALLEY STAKE.
	Conference held at Afton Ward meeting
house, July 20, 1903, President Alice J.
Call presiding. Opened with the usual
exercises. The reports showed that the
ward organizations were up to date in good,
practical service.
	The conference was noted for its many
distinguished visitors, among whom were
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Frank Y. Taylor of the Granite Stake of
Zion, Sisters E. J. Stevenson and L. D.
Alder, sent by the General Board.
	President Call said she wished to be brief
in her remarks, as we were anxious to hear
from our visitors, as we have seldom been
so honored. She introduced Sister Steven-
son, who said:
	“Before I proceed farther let me give to
you the love of Sister Smith and Sister
Wells.” Spoke of the Mothers’ Work, en-
couraged the Relief Society teachers to seek
the Spirit of the Lord. Spoke of the great
responsibility of the mothers in looking
after the morals of the young and of the
folly of following the frivolous fashions of
the world.
	Sister Annie Hood then sang in her 
usual sweet tone, “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.”
	Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff said: “I
have been very much pleased with the re-
marks and also with the beautiful song we
have listened to. We do not expect good
boys if we do not have good mothers. Your
aims should be to become ideal wives and
mothers.
	President Frank Y. Taylor encouraged
the sisters to look after the poor and those
in need. 
	Afternoon session: Sister Alder spoke of
the Mothers’ Work and that the happiest
time in our lives is when our little ones are
clinging about our knees.
	The remainder of the reports were given.
Closing prayer, Sister Sarah A. Burton.
			ANNIEBEL Y. HILL, Sec.
			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society was held
in Malad City, Idaho, June 11, 1903, Presi-
dent Julia A. Richards presiding. Visitors
from General Board, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams, one of the general officers of the
society, and Hattie B. Harker, missionary.
	Samaria, St. John’s, Pleasant View,
Malad and Riverside reported as doing well.
	Sister H. B. Harker spoke upon the
Mothers’ Work, secret prayer as a strong
support, urged the study of the children.
	Sister C. S. Williams said we read each
others’ hearts by an inward gift, expression
gives comfort, let our words be in line with
the priesthood; we are promised strength to
overcome our weaknesses, the Lord has a
work for all willing hearts to perform.
	Elvira A. Harrison related a testimony
given to Sister Eliza R. Snow in the Logan 
Temple, Sister Mary A. Bolingbrolee spoke
upon cheerfulness, activity and experience,

[Column 2]
President J. A. Richards made closing re-
marks and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting.
	Afternoon session: First, after the usual
opening exercises and transaction of busi-
ness pertaining to the society, Sister Alice
A. Smith was released as first counselor to
the president, and Sister Eliza Hall released
as stake secretary and Sister Jeannette Per-
kins as stake treasurer. Officers of the
General Relief Society sustained by vote of
the conference, then the stake officers, Julia
A. Richards, President; Eliza Hall, first
counselor; Eliza Ward, second counselor;
Joanna L. Kennard, secretary; Ella S.
Capener, treasurer. Voting unanimous.
	Sister Williams presented greetings from
President Bathsheba W. Smith, of love to
all, said her heart is full of charity for all
the sisters. 'Our first duty is to take care
of home and family, but there is time for
our spiritual talents to grow and broaden.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards: “Today
we are enjoying the hard labors of our par-
ents. There was a divine power in bring-
ing them here.” Spoke along the line of
instructions given in the Doctrine and
Covenants.
	Sister Harker: “Faith in God gives us
force to improve our talents, wisdom guides
us in the path of safety, love and charity
brings sunshine unto all.”
	Bishop Price and Brother Jones of Sa-
maria each bore testimony to the truth of
the words spoken, and encouraged the sis-
ters to persevere.
	President Richards: “Let us try and put
in practice the teachings given; let improve-
ment be our motto.”
	Conference adjourned with singing and
prayer. The visiting sisters and stake
officers afterwards held meetings at Portage
and Riverside, giving general instructions;
a good spirit was manifest in all.
