8 Chastity—A Foundation Stone of Mormonism Luella N. Adams "Be not deceived; God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to the flesh, shall of the flesh reap corruption. He that soweth to the spirit, shall of the spirit reap life everlasting." Thus spoke St. Paul. These solemn words of warning have come down to us through the years. Those who have yielded to the weakness of the flesh have paid a bitter price. The laws of Heaven do not change. God will not be mocked. It is common knowledge that we "reap what we sow." There is no escaping the severe penalty that follows sin. Sinful indulgences bring tragedy, bitter remorse, physical wreckage and, what is worse, moral wreckage. Cicero said: "A youth of sensuality and intemperance delivers over to old age a worn-out body." Those who "sow to the spirit," reap the rich reward of life everlasting. Could there be any more glorious reward? Free agency is a God-given concept. Men have always had to choose between good and evil. History records the fact that a disregard for chastity and righteous living in any great degree not only jeopardizes the free agency of individuals but the free agency of whole peoples. Sin enslaves, while righteousness makes free men. Righteous people have always placed a high value on chastity. The Israelites enforced purity by punishment of death. In their day, immorality was considered such a serious offense that entire clans were destroyed because of the sin of one member. On Mt. Sinai, Moses included in his Decalogue for right living, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." In the Book of Mormon, Jacob, speaking to the Nephites, warned them of the curse and even destruction that would come upon them if they continued in their iniquity. Here are his words: "Woe, woe unto you that are not pure in heart, that are filthy before God; for except ye repent, the land is cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy like unto you, nevertheless they are cursed with a sore cursing, shall scourge you unto destruction.... O my brethren, I fear that unless ye shall repent of your sins, that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye shall be brought with them before the throne of God." (Book of Mormon, Jacob, 3:3, 8) Since the beginning of civilization, nations and peoples have fallen as a result of moral decay. Sensuous living always has and always will bring tragedy. One of the cardinal principles of the Mormon Church is chastity. Our people have always been taught high standards of morality, and the rewards of obedience have been family solidarity, physical strength, and spiritual endowment in rich abundance. Brigham Young gave the following admonition to the children: "I wish to say to the children, obey thy parents. Never suffer yourselves to do that which will mortify you through life and that will cause you to look back with regret. While you are pure and spiritual, preserve yourselves in the integrity of your souls. Although you are young, you know good from evil; and live so that you can look back on your lives and thank the Lord that he has preserved, or has enabled you to preserve yourselves, so that you have no misconduct to regret or mourn over. Take this course and you will secure to yourselves an honorable name on earth among the good and the pure. You will maintain your integrity before Heaven and prove yourselves worthy of a high state of glory when you get through this world." What timely advice! The majority of the Mormon youth are followers of this admonition. Life holds promise for them. They are "morally straight and mentally awake." Our concern is to help them maintain these high standards. In cases where some may be weak in this regard, we 

 

 have an even greater responsibility to impress them with the importance of right moral conduct. It is probably true that there never has been a time when the forces of evil, working in union, marched forward more relentlessly to destroy the souls of men than at the present. Someone has said: "Satan and his emissaries are working overtime to tempt people to unrighteous living." Evils which contribute to a disregard for chastity appear in many places disguised in many different forms. Pernicious influences parade in many of our accepted types of entertainment, in much of our "accredited" modern literature, in a steady stream of deceptive advertising. The automobile and other means of easy transportation augment our problem. Increased leisure aggravates our difficulties; we all recognize the truth of the old adage, "An idle brain is the Devil's workshop." All too common among us is the vulgar joke, the coarse story. "Keep the mind clean and the body will be clean" is a truism. Modesty is a priceless virtue. Evil parades in immodest dress. Drinking is perhaps the greatest single factor contributing to a disregard for chastity. The Arabs called alcohol "the spirit of the devil." How true this is! Latter-day Saints today can see the wisdom of President Heber J. Grant's admonition to vote against the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, in view of the alarming increase in the consumption of liquor. Through divine revelation, Mormon people have received a reservoir of God's laws for righteous living. Where much is given much is expected. This being true, the fathers CHASTITY—A FOUNDATION STONE OF MORMONISM and mothers—guardians of the chastity of our youth—have a more solemn obligation than that imposed on any other people. Relief Society mothers, teach your children to shun the very appearance of evil. The responsibility is yours. Important as is the work of the Church, the school and other agencies interested in moral welfare, the task cannot be left entirely to them. Recently, in one of the great universities of our country, moral philosophy not only dangerous but contrary to Christian principles was taught. The teacher had slight regard for chastity. While it is true that schools have a solemn obligation to stress this vital principle, they cannot always be relied upon; and fine as are the teachings of the Church, remember, Relief Society mothers, the home is the first bulwark to preserve and defend chastity. Satan's practices are beguiling. He whispers into the ear of the unsuspecting youth, "Everybody is doing it. Be a sport; nobody will ever know." Remember, youth, your Heavenly Father knows, and you know. "I cannot hide myself from me, I see what others can never see, I know what others may never know. I cannot hide myself and so Whatever happens I want to be Self-respecting and conscience-free." Our children are our most priceless gifts. The Savior has said, "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God..... He that seeketh me early shall find me." 507 President Clark, at the last Conference, gave the following advice to the mothers: "Sisters of the Church, the chastity of the youth of the Church is largely in your hands. You must enthrone virtue in its sovereign place; you must bring back modesty, must let the beauty of chaste blushes still adorn your cheeks. "Mothers in Israel, teach your sons to honor and revere, to protect to the last, pure womanhood; teach your daughters that their most priceless jewel is a clean, undefiled body; teach both sons and daughters that chastity is worth more than life itself. These are the duties which the Priesthood looks to you primarily to carry to, and to maintain in, that cradle of all virtues—the righteous home. "We Priesthood shall help as best our natures permit, but the burden for that task is now and always has been, in the greatest part, yours. Unless you shall do this, the whole world will sink into a welter of sin and corruption. May God help you in your task!" How blessed are Latter-day Saint fathers and mothers. The Church has charted the course for your children to follow. Danger signals have been posted along the way. This charted course is the way of wholesome life; it is our Heavenly Father's way. Members of our Society, the Priesthood expects us to guard the chastity of our youth. They came to us pure. Let us do all in our power to keep them so. Teach them to listen to the still, small voice. That voice says now, as always: "Be not deceived; God is not mocked. Whatsoever we soweth, that shall we reap.