HER SHINING HOUSE By Olive C. Wehr I'm sure that I have never seen As hers. Each surface polished so Gives back to it some borrowed glow Until the radiant whole but seems New fashioned of a housewife's dreams? An order only such as she Could maintain in reality. Such bold perfection greets me there To enter in I hardly dare For fear of erring in her eyes That, tired but anxious, guard her prize. She keeps a shining house?but oh, The home her loved ones long to know! A house kept fresh and spotless clean a "How Firm a Foundation' The unimpaired Gospel of Jesus Christ is. In Latter-day Saint belief, the deepest and strongest foundation for a happy life... For the security and progress of the individual, for the harmony and progress of the world.. _. Christ's message is the base upon which the Church is building and operating Brigham Young University. It is the rock upon which character and scholarship may be erected with safety. A, The latest building to be added to the B. Y. U. Campus is the splendid religious and social center now being completed under the Church Welfare Plan. Significant also is the expansion this year of the former Religious Education Delav into a Division of Religion with the four departments of Bible and Modem tipture, Church History, Church Organization and Administration, and Theology and Religious Philosophy.  Since the aim at B. Y. U. Is to enable well-rounded preparation for a useful life. Courses are given leading to success in scores of occupations. In the five colleges, there are thirty-seven departments offering more than 1600 courses. The University is specifically organized to train young men and women for lay leadership; to give them. That is, occupational efficiency as well as the power and the desire to serve spiritually. AUTUMN QUARTER Registration?September 20, 21, and 23 Nationally Accredited?No Out-of-State Fees For catalog, address The President BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH LIFE'S TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Was. 5132?Hy. 180 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244