HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon August — A restful hour for books, dreams, and meditation is a soul enrichment. Reading is one recreation which relaxes and refreshes both mind and body during the long summer days. It also may help one to forget for a time the sorrows and turmoil confronting the people of the world today. Among recent engaging books from the pens of English women novelists, one notes Mrs. Miniver by Jan Streether, whose identity is only recently revealed. Elizabeth, author of the delightful book Mr. Skeffington, mentioned last month, is no other than Countess Russell, author of the charming book Elizabeth and Her German Garden of forty years ago. Then, Angela Thirkell's amusing story, Before Lunch, which affords the fillip: "If you start Before Lunch before dinner you can't stop Before Lunch before breakfast; but, if you begin Before Lunch after breakfast you can finish Before Lunch after dinner or before supper if you haven't started Before Lunch before lunch." One wonders what will now be the field of work for these gifted women. Other interesting books by women are The Family, the Atlantic Monthly's $10,000 prize novel, by Antonina Riasanonsky, pen name Nina Fedrovna, of South America; Biography of Richard Brindley Sheridan, English dramatist, by Alice Glasgow, and Our Southwest by Erna Ferguson, a colorful first novel. Hattie Bagley Maughan, of Utah, for her one-act play, Of Goodly Parentage, won first honor in the contest of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. Her play will be presented in the Pasadena Playhouse. Amassolova, chief matron of the Red Cross Hospital in Athens, was recently awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal. Agnes B. Sutton, of Cape Province, South Africa, has been appointed prosecutor in the Juvenile Courts of the province—the first woman to receive such appointment. Sonja Henie, Olympic figure-skating champion and film favorite, was married last month to the wealthy New York sportsman Daniel Reid Topping. Doris Duke Cromwell, heiress to millions, has offered to support 500 English refugee children. Elizabeth Bergner, famous Viennese actress, is being sought for the leading role in Robert Sherwood's London presentation, "There Shall Be No Night." Alice Marble, tennis star and holder of the titles in both the English and American singles and doubles, again carried off the honors in the finals at the National Clay Courts Tournament. Susan Glaspell's novel, The Morning Is Near Us, has already sold one hundred thousand copies and been bought for film production. This book won the Literary Guild selection for April.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude B. Garlff Marianne C. Sharp Zona B. Fetzer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Editor Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman