Next, a ward coordinator lighted one of the large candles, representative of a ward, as she presented the new members from her ward. Then, each of these new members lighted a smaller candle in turn, each repeating a different pledge. The ceremony was continued until the coordinator of every ward had presented her new members and each had given her pledge and lighted a candle to strengthen the radiance of the new day in their lives. A tribute to new members followed the ceremony, and each was presented with a booklet commemorating the occasion. The cover of the booklet, printed in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, bears an appropriate title, "On the Threshold of Abundant Living." Included in the contents is a copy of the article, "The Radiance of a New Day" by Joseph Quinney, Jr., which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine for
556
August, 1936, and which inspired the candlelighting ceremony. A nice feature of the booklet is the list of names of all the new members, arranged in groups according to wards; with each ward group the names of its ward Relief Society president and membership coordinator also appear in recognition of their interest and effort in the membership campaign. The accompanying picture, taken at the candle-lighting ceremony, is of new members, coordinators, and the stake board.
Nampa Stake (Nampa, Idaho)
MEMBERSHIP growth in Nampa Stake is recorded on a large "wheel," designed by the stake membership coordinator, Bardella Rasmussen. The "wheel" is a blue disc, three feet in diameter, divided into six segments by six gold-colored
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
spokes. Each segment represents one of the six wards of this stake, and is filled in with stars representing the members of the Relief Society. In each ward's section is one gold star for each member of the ward Relief Society who was enrolled prior to the beginning of the present membership drive, and a red star for each new member enrolled during the course of the drive. The wheel is prominently displayed at each union meeting, and it is at these meetings that the red stars are added. Thus, the wheel becomes an effective graphic chart which shows at a glance the relative size of each ward Relief Society, and the location and extent of the gains in membership within the various wards of the stake. Minnie L. Rose is president of this stake Relief Society.
Excerpts From Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 5, Written by the Prophet Joseph Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"BROTHER SHEARER inquired the meaning of the 'little leaven which a woman hid in three measures of meal.' I replied it alluded expressly to the last days, when there should be but little faith on the earth, and it should leaven the whole world; also there shall be safety in Zion and Jerusalem, and in the remnants whom the Lord our God shall call. The three measures refer directly to the Priesthood, truth springing up on a fixed principle to the three in the Grand Presidency, confining the oracles to a certain head on the principle of three" (p. 207).
"... Nay, the world itself presents one great theater of misery, woe and distress of nations with perplexity. All, all, speak with a voice of thunder, that man is not able to govern himself, to protect himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is his purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and 'nations will learn war no more'" (p. 63).