LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 2
The Heavens Open?Restoration and Joseph Smith (Tuesday, November 5)
"Wherefore, I, the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Junior, and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; and also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world...." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:17, 18)
JOSEPH SMITH AND HIS PROBLEM. In the mind of the fourteen-year-old Joseph Smith, religious rivalry had created perplexity. Being a thoughtful youth, he tried to learn the truth concerning religion, the purpose of existence and the will of God. There is a unique element in what he did. Just as great pioneers in the field of science have cast traditional explanations aside and undertaken experimental research to discover truth, he subjected his religious difficulties to objective experimentation. In the beginning he did not set out to reform an existing church nor to establish a new one. Accepting Jesus as the Christ, he sought the true interpretation of Christianity that had been taught in the Apostolic Period. There were two sources readily available from which he might have gained portions of the knowledge he desired. He was already familiar with the Bible, but it gave merely a sketchy form of the original Christian church. A second source from which the desired information might be secured was through direct revelation from God. Frankly confessing his inability to learn from the Bible what he desired to know, and being trusting enough to follow literally a biblical injunction, he chose the second of these courses: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him" (James 1:5).
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE FIRST VISION. There is no evidence to indicate that when Joseph Smith entered the wood that bright spring morning he had any preconceived notions concerning the nature of the Godhead or religion other than the contemporary Protestant views. But when he emerged some time later, these mistaken teachings had been blasted away and replaced by definite facts. His faith and openmindedness had resulted in a revelation that taught three distinct truths lost to the world: First, God the Father and Jesus Christ had been
558
revealed as possessing materiality, individuality and personality; second, tangible evidence had proved conclusively that revelation had not necessarily ended and could be had when conditions were favorable for its reception; third, no existing earthly church was in possession of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and simplicity.
RESTORATION, NOT REFORMATION. Although youthful, untrained as a professional religious leader or scholar, and sensing his own inadequacies, he did not turn to the writings of the famous philosophers, theologians, and reformers for guidance. His first vision had taught him that the Restoration must come through revelation, not through reformation. His contributions to the theological and religious heritage of the world have never been fully appreciated, and the world is only gradually commencing to comprehend the magnificence of his teachings. Only a few of his outstanding contributions can be discussed in the current lesson.
THE PRIMITIVE AND LATTER-DAY CHURCHES. Throughout the work of Joseph Smith it is evident that he was striving to reestablish on earth the Primitive Christian Church organization and its doctrinal teachings and practices. To effect this, the various Priesthood offices, quorums and councils in the Church were successively organized. Through the Priesthood, available to every worthy male when old enough to assume Church responsibilities, Joseph Smith restored the concept of a church managed by its membership, rather than a class of professional priests.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
UNIVERSAL SALVATION AND ETERNAL PROGRESSION. One of the earliest glimpses of the breadth of the Prophet's vision of the eternities is found in his teachings concerning the universal salvation given all of God's mortal creations. However, for exaltation in the hereafter, obedience to certain eternal principles or ordinances is required. Through baptism, endowments, and sealings for the dead this blessing is not denied even to the dead who were unable to obey these requirements in mortality. Not only is there scriptural evidence for such practice, but the early church "Fathers" acknowledged its existence, although Tertullian (between 207 and 220 A. D.) was forced to admit that the church no longer understood it. In Joseph Smith's concept of eternal life there was no such thing as static or purposeless existence. Even God is made subject to this principle. The Prophet said: "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens!... He was once a man like us; yea,... The Father of us all, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ himself did." (Teachings of Joseph Smith, pp. 345-346.) How closely this resembles the doctrine still prevalent in the second century church, as stated by Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons, when he taught that "God became what we are, that we might become what He is." (S. J. Case, Highways of Christian Doctrine). And again, "We have not been made gods in the beginning, but at first merely men, then at length gods." (Against Heresies, Book IV, 38:4 and Book III 6:1)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
FIRST PRINCIPLES AND ORDINANCES. Into a world teaching the doctrines of predestination, infant damnation, and the total depravity of man, Joseph Smith brought the knowledge of a just and merciful God, who asked man to believe, repent and then manifest the sincerity of his faith and changed life by entering the water of baptism and receiving the Holy Ghost as a confirmation of this regeneration. Here again historical documents vindicate the accuracy of these teachings, indicating that infant baptism was never practiced by the Primitive Church. The interpretation of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper made by Joseph Smith was revolutionary to an apostate Christian world that had attached so much mysticism to this simple rite. Yet, how similar to the second century practice as recorded by Justin in First Apology, Chap. 65: "There is then brought to the president of the brethren bread and a cup of wine mixed with water; and he taking them, gives praise and glory to the Father of the universe, through the name of the Son... And when he has concluded... All the people present express their assent by saying 'Amen'. (Then)... Those who are called by us deacons give to each of those present to partake of the bread and the wine mixed with water, over which the blessing was pronounced..." Here is freedom from supernatural interpretations. It is purely a simple, memorial meal, depending upon the spiritual condition of the partaker for its efficacy, rather than a divine element in the substances.
CONTRIBUTIONS OF JOSEPH SMITH TO CHRISTIAN THOUGHT AND LIVING. The
559
Latter-day Prophet did more than any religious leader since the days of Jesus to stress the dignity and worth of the human soul. He did much for the emancipation of women. The organization of the Relief Society indicated that he realized women should fill a definite place in society, through welfare work. Within the Church, she was to share the blessings of the Priesthood with her husband and encourage him to righteous living. In marriage, she was to be an equal as well as an eternal companion. He showed the world that a prophet was not a pious, archaic fanatic, but a normal man, blessed with vision, who interpreted the will of God to his generation. His contribution to sacred scripture?the Book of Mormon, Book of Moses, Book of Abraham and Doctrine and Covenants?nearly equal in volume, and far surpass in worth for present-day living, the products of all biblical prophets combined. His religious philosophy of life is one of the profoundest concepts of life.
JOSEPH SMITH AFTER A CENTURY. From the vantage point gained by the Church and society after more than a century of the Restored Gospel, we can make some valid evaluations of the Prophet of this Dispensation. The fact that he passed through the highly emotional strain of religious revivals as he did indicates stability of character and remarkable maturity of judgment for a youth. His later life manifested these same rugged characteristics of independence. We see this manifested still further in his work of restoring the Gospel. Certain of the divinity of his calling and promise, he blazed new trails in theology and religion. Although ac-
560
cused by his opponents of blasphemy and un-Christian-like teachings, the discovery during the past century of Christian documents describing the Primitive Church indicate that his teachings accorded with the apostolic doctrines. Time, the great justifier, has validated the truths he taught, and the Restored Church rolls forth to fill the earth with knowledge and power.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What sources are available for a study of the Primitive Christian Church?
2. What truths did Joseph Smith know when he emerged from the Sacred Grove that he did not know when he entered?
3. What is the importance of the translation and publication of the "Fathers" of the first and second centuries of the Christian Church for a study of the Restoration?
4. Why did Joseph Smith succeed in restoring the Gospel, whereas other great minds before his day had never done more than attempt a reformation of an apostate church?
5. Why do you suppose the Lord has commanded the Church in this dispensation that all things should be done by "common consent"?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Make a report on the parallels between second-century writers on Christianity and Joseph Smith's teachings, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
presented by Professor James L. Barker in the Improvement Era, March, 1938, pp. 144, 145, and 185. 2. Summarize the philosophy of Joseph Smith as presented by B. H. Roberts in Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 2, pp. 381-412. 3. What interpretation do you place on the statements in Amos 8:11, 12 and Revelation 14:6, 7? 4. Read the summarization of Joseph Smith's character on pages 360, 361 of Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church.
References
Wm. E. Berrett, The Restored Church, pp. 18-27 and 274-280. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 2, pp. 362-412. Geo. Q. Cannon, Life of Joseph Smith. Deseret News, Church Sections, radio addresses by Wm. E. Berrett, Lowell L. Bennion and T. Edgar Lyon on "Contributions of Joseph Smith," commencing in issue of June 24, 1939, and continuing through to December 30, 1939. "Joseph Smith?the Prophet," by Preston Nibley, commencing in the issue of May 20, 1939, and continuing to the issue of October 7, 1939. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18, 20 and 27. J. H. Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 7-37 and 249-312. J. H. Evans, Joseph Smith?an American Prophet, pp. 225-316 and 415-433. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 40-49; 91-94; 180-192; and 315-319.
"I KNOW what I say, I understand my mission and business. God Almighty is my shield, and what can man do if God is my friend? I shall not be sacrificed until my time comes; then I shall be offered freely." [1843]
"PAUL saw the third heavens, and I more. Peter penned the most sublime language of any of the Apostles." (Excerpts from Documentary History of the Church, Prophet Joseph Smith.)