NOTES TO THE FIELD Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest The Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded: a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and closes October 15. This contest offers another opportunity to the women of our Church to do creative work. The object of the contest is to encourage women to write poetry and to appreciate more deeply the beauty and value of poetic verse. About 1400 poems have been entered in this contest since 1923. May this be a climax year for participation and excellence of poetry. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. A statement should accompany the poem submitted, certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.