Vol. XXVII AUGUST, 1940 No. 8 EDITORIAL The Power of Composure At various times and under different circumstances special character traits seem particularly desirable. Dependability, courage, loyalty, affability, and a long list which we might enumerate, while desirable at all times, take on special significance under certain circumstances. The pioneer would b helpless without courage; the man in business finds dependability a requirement; in the social group affability is of outstanding importance, and so forth. In today's strife-swept and insecure world, a character trait which stands out as of paramount importance is composure. Composure implies a settled state of mind, calmness, tranquility, self-possession. The possession of this trait enables the individual to face facts squarely, to think clearly, to reason intelligently and to arrive at sound conclusions. Composure does not imply that an individual is less sensitive to the seriousness of a situation, nor does it lessen the evil or make the condition less grievous, but it enables the individual to draw fully upon all his inner resources in meeting a situation and is the first step in the intelligent solution of his problem. Too often when we face a grave situation, when our accustomed way of life is interrupted, when some unexpected calamity sweeps down upon us, or even when we are overworked or face tasks for which we feel inadequate, a sort of hysteria takes possession of us; our normal poise is upset, and we "go to pieces." We exhibit imperfect self-control and indulge in destructive emotional outbursts. Thus, we lose mastery of both self and the situation. Though we recognize the power of composure, we argue, "Anyone would be upset facing what I face." We genuinely believe it would be more than human to remain calm and serene. But the emotions need education as well as the mind. We should strive constantly to engender in ourselves emotional stability. We should form habits which utilize our emotional energy in constructive ways. Not being able to change a situation, we should try changing our attitude toward it. While it is probably true that some people naturally possess a greater degree of emotional stabil- EDITORIAL ity than others, an honest effort to be less sensitive to disturbing stimuli and to remain self-possessed under trying circumstances usually results in improved behavior. We all admire and are inclined to follow the individual who is master of his emotions. We can all recall numerous instances in which the composure of one person made him master of the group. The Church is proud of its record of composed leadership; it is equally proud of its numerous examples of outstanding group composure. Recall with me the terrible experience of the Saints at the time of the Martyrdom. It was expected that the outraged and grief-stricken people would burn the town. The people of Carthage fled in all directions, even the governor and his posse took flight; but there was no uprising or violence on the part of the Saints. Elder Willard Richards stood before eight or ten thousand Saints at Nauvoo and advised them "to keep the peace." He stated that he had pledged his honor and his life for their peaceful conduct. When the multitude heard that, notwithstanding the scene of outraged justice under which they labored, and the cruel invasion of the rights of liberty and life?in the very midst of their grief and excitement, with the means at their hands to wreak a terrible vengeance, they voted to a man to follow the counsel of their leader. Such composure is scarcely paralleled in the history of our country?if in the world. 531 Brigham Young displayed the same type of composed leadership. On July 24, 1857, President Young and 2,587 persons were encamped at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, celebrating the tenth anniversary of their entrance into the Salt Lake Valley. A spirit of peace, joy, and patriotism prevailed, when men bearing "war news" rode in upon the scene. The United States Army was about to invade the Utah territory; everything the Saints owned would be destroyed. Yet, there was no hysterical nervousness. President Young received the message quietly, and Church history records: ".. The afternoon's merriment went on as if no messengers... had arrived. At about sunset the camp assembled for prayers, when President Wells made a few remarks in relation to 'the latest news from the states,' upon the order of leaving ground in the morning, and concluded with prayer." The calm, wise leaders evolved a plan whereby the invading army proved a blessing to the struggling settlers. The confidence of the people in their leaders, their knowledge of the Gospel, and their unwavering faith in God, gave them an almost superhuman composure. An understanding of the plan of life and salvation, which can come to the meekest and most humble of us through consistent effort to learn and live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is the greatest power in the world to equip us to meet whatever life has to offer with reason and intelligence, to remain composed and unafraid?come what may.