A president's position is a key position. She spreads her attention in various directions. She secures competent class leaders. She builds up a happy atmosphere. Group cooperation and group enthusiasm definitely depend upon her. All these greatly influence sound membership growth with consistent attendance. There must be great satisfaction in being the kind of president who makes each of us feel that she is genuinely interested in us, or the kind of class leader who makes her work so interesting that we feel we cannot afford to miss her class. Membership coordinators have been appointed to assist the presidents in the membership drive. Perhaps support and cooperation sum up the presi-
538
dent's responsibility. This includes active interest, consultation on plans and arrangements, approval of publicity measures, etc.?most of all, the encouragement of the coordinators. Only through the president can coordinators arrange for needed preparation of membership workers, for special instructions to visiting teachers, for specialized help from class leaders, or for time and opportunity to create general interest in the drive. To succeed in the membership drive we need presidents who are one hundred per cent for it. The groups over which you preside are as sensitive to your attitude as a barometer is to changes in atmospheric conditions. Your hearty approval, or your lack of it, does more in the success or failure of this campaign than most of us realize.
Coordinators Lead the Way
A coordinator's responsibility is the what and the how of interesting and enrolling in Relief Society all eligible women. Her assignment requires a great amount of creative but practical thinking to work out actual procedure in all its detail. Her assignment also includes securing the necessary help to put her ideas into operation. The creative genius for developing and carrying on the membership drive lies in your individual units, and initiative would be retarded if detailed plans went out from the General Board. The following rules, taken from work plans prepared and used by stake membership coordinators, may help you to measure up: Attack your work with faith, prayer, and enthusiasm; make every member "membership conscious"; let the ward members know of the membership objective for
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
1942; make Relief Society popular and give it as much worthy publicity as possible; attempt to inform all members of the merits of Relief Society, asking for assistance in this from officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers; inform new members of requirements as to dues and participation; after the drive closes, continue to work to keep up attendance.
Let's Have Sails All Set?Oct. 1
Start early on this year's preparation for the membership drive. It takes time to originate or to gather ideas, to test their workability, to iron out snags, and to improve on the first draft of your plan. Remember, too, that you are dealing with groups, and group action is slower than individual action. At the very outset of your planning, check the number of Latter-day Saint families living in your stake or ward. Compare that figure with your Relief Society enrollment and you will have some indication of the increase you should make. A tentative yearly activity program will be an economy measure. Take into account the regular and special occasions, including socials, Relief Society ward conference, Fifth Tuesdays, and Anniversary Day, which normally constitute the Relief Society calendar, and determine how these may be used effectively in promoting membership. Plan some occasions where the whole ward population may be aroused to interest in the drive.
Share the Wealth
Relief Society is not just another study group. We find here possibilities for rounded spiritual richness rarely found in so full a measure. The membership drive is our mis-
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
sionary project among our own. It is Relief Society's share-the-wealth plan. Today we haven't the common physical dangers or enemies that faced women in the early years of the Church, and which tended to draw them close together, almost with the solidarity of a family. Now, there are many competitive influences making inroads which may adversely affect our unity and strength. I believe that the leaders of this organization were inspired to make the call to seek out and gather the women of the Church into Relief Society
539
under the influence of the Gospel that we might stand unitedly together, a power for good. There may be ahead of us great need for the strength of simple faith in God. We may be facing a time when we will need burning personal testimonies to fortify us with courage, as did our pioneer mothers. If we possess the pioneering urge, that forward-moving drive, that altruistic attitude, an indefatigable spirit of working for a cause, the question of "measuring up" will have a positive answer.
KEEP THE DRIVE ALIVE
Estella McIntire Coordinator, Carbon Stake Relief Society
ONLY that which has a spark of life can be kept alive. In the membership drive, this spark was an idea with possibilities for growth and endless development passed out to us by our General Board. Because Carbon Stake has been successful in reaching its quota in the membership drive, we have been asked to tell of our methods. Because I am the coordinator, I have been asked to represent the Carbon Stake, but I have played but a minute part in the success of our drive and have offered suggestions only where needed. I was fortunate in having the complete cooperation of our entire board and of the members of our stake. In our drive there were seven salient points of action: preparedness, projected interest or a definite goal to anticipate, personalized approach, showmanship with interest, keeping interest week by week, theme-writing contest, and recognition of the accomplishment. In preparing for the drive we first discussed it at stake board meeting until all phases were understood, the opening date of the drive set, and a definite plan of action outlined. Every available source of information was gone over until we felt ourselves equipped to go out and do the job well. At the first union meeting in September, the ward coordinators were called into session as a group. There the plans were discussed and new ideas accepted and some discarded. At the same time, the executives were selling the idea in their departments and converting all ward officers so that perfect cooperation would be assured. Feeling next the need of immediate personal interest among our members and prospects, we arranged an announcement program which we thought would capture and hold their attention. The twenty-one coordinators, the music director, the chorus, and several program par-
540
ticipants met early in another room on union meeting day. We had previously asked for ten minutes of every ward meeting for six weeks to carry on our work. To the strains of One Hundred Thousand Strong we marched into the assembly room wearing blue caps with the announcement date printed in gold. The printed announcements, which were wrapped around gold-colored sticks of candy and tied with ribbon, were passed out by the coordinators. They also carried the slogan, "Every Member Get A Member." After these had been distributed, the coordinators formed a half circle, and a two-minute sales talk on "A Worth While Organization" was given by one of them. The stake coordinator then passed quota certificates to the ward coordinators with the following request: "Coordinators of the Carbon Stake, with this little certificate, I commission you to raise your quota thirteen per cent, thereby making a gain of fifty per cent in two years. In all humility I ask you to pledge yourselves to the task." The ward coordinators then took the following pledge: "I pledge by the help of the Lord to do my best to make this membership drive a success." The audience took the same pledge; then all joined in the rally song, and our drive was on its way. Departmental work followed where helps and hints were given for the entire month. We had set a goal for thirteen per cent for one year, with a recognition program at the end?an incentive to keep the drive alive. We felt that our personalized appeal must go still further; so the following week the entire stake board
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
participated in a get-acquainted missionary drive throughout the stake wherever possible. The members of the board met with the ward officers. Each ward was divided into districts, and one ward officer and one stake officer went out together to cover each district. Some very fine and successful contacts were made. The ward coordinator was asked to follow up this canvass with notes, telephone calls, and weekly visits to the prospective new members. With the belief that "the eye is more receptive than the ear" we tried to stress more and better showmanship by using interest devices such as catchy slogans, skits, demonstrations, and welcome cards. October 31, being a fifth Tuesday, was to be celebrated as "guest day." Each member was asked to bring as many guests as she liked, and all department leaders were asked to sell their wares in a skit or stunt, with as much showmanship as possible. We tried to impress the class leaders with the idea that although we could bring in new members it was their responsibility to hold them with efficient lesson presentation. Some very original and spectacular programs were given all over the stake. Lessons were demonstrated in costume; greeting committees were formed and sociability stressed. Guests were given every consideration. All members were asked to help make Relief Society popular by talking it and advertising its fine lessons and good class leaders. We created personal appeal through individual invitations, cleverly devised party favors, and inquiry cards following absence. Crowd appeal was achieved through programs, guest days, and frequent introduction of new slogans. By having each member seek out a new member we were able to reach every part of the ward. New members were given responsibilities when advisable, and those gifted in art were asked to help with our show-card writing. To keep up interest week by week we decided to give away a little favor each week carrying a suggestive thought; such as, "sails all set" on a gumdrop ship, "only three more weeks of the drive" on an animal cart, and "pull together" on an ox cart. Each of these favors was the theme for a weekly sales talk. Rally songs were used often in community sings. There was a weekly progress chart and an honor roll; and one ward used a tree, naming the leaves for the Relief Society members. The type of device used depended on the originality of the ward coordinator, because we did stress originality. On union meeting day a little book of memory was given to each ward coordinator, reminding her of her responsibilities for the entire month so that there would be no excuse for loss of memory. Next, some satisfying form of recognition of each ward's accomplishment was provided, first in ward receptions and finally in a stake reception. At the ward reception, the new members were ushered to seats of honor, and each old member introduced her enrollees. One 1939 member brought in five 1940 members, and one new member entered into the canning enterprise with much spirit. Women who haven't been to Relief Society for twenty years are now attending, and one is coming in a wheel chair. The grand finale was a stake reception where each ward received its recognition certificate, and a candlelighting ceremony was performed, honoring the winners in both the Magazine drive and the membership drive. The candle was to be kept by the winning ward for one year to give light to its programs and also to light the way for a bigger and better drive in 1941. Corsages made from the harvest field were awarded, and a homemade box of goodies carrying the Christmas greetings of the stake board was presented to each member. In our theme-writing contest, only thirteen themes were entered, but the type of essay received was very good, one of them winning recognition from the General Board. In all our work we have put forth our very best efforts to make it as cultural as we could with as little expense as possible. It definitely has not been a one-man drive, but a drive carried on by the seven hundred and one members of Carbon Stake. For the year 1940, one thousand and fifty members will "keep the drive alive" in Carbon Stake. We have "sails all set" to make Relief Society popular and to sell membership in the finest women's organization in the world.
"When a man turns his back upon the light, he sees nothing but his own shadow."?Robert Layton.
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
541
 ?AUGUST, 1940
THE MEMBERSHIP DRIVE IN THE NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION
Ann P. Nibley President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society
OUR 1939 membership shows an increase of 64 per cent over that of 1937. This increase gives our mission fifth place among stakes and missions of the Church during this period. We humbly attribute this success to the following reasons: 1. The spirit and love of Relief Society work which exists in rich abundance among our faithful officers and members, the same spirit which urged them to outstanding success in the Magazine drive, and. The same spirit which lessens the burden of traveling from 25 to 300 miles to attend conferences and union meetings, 2. The rapid growth of the mission from the outside. Nearly 100 persons per month are moving into the Northwest from the states of Utah and Idaho. The Latter-day Saint women among this number are eager for the opportunities, the advantages and culture which attendance at Relief Society meetings brings them. Wide-awake membership coordinators have little difficulty in enrolling these women. 3. The opportunity, with the help of our missionaries, of organizing in the last three years 42 new Societies, including two in Alaska?one at Anchorage and one at Fairbanks. The latter two organizations are the farthest north Societies in the Church, and both have doubled their membership in the last year. 4. The energetic work of the mission, district and branch coordinators, and the splendid cooperation they have received from Relief Society members. The work of these coordinators is continuous. As soon as the drive is finished in December, follow-up work is begun, new plans are made and started for the next drive. Many interesting and unique ideas are carried out by coordinators to keep the interest up week by week, and "the drive alive." Each member has been given the responsibility of interesting and bringing to the meetings one new member, at the same time still giving special attention to the member she was successful in adding to the rolls during the last drive. 5. Special recognition and awards to members writing essays of outstanding merit. Awards were also given by the mission to the district and branch coordinators gaining the most new members. These awards were presented on the special Anniversary Day programs. The names of those receiving special recognition are printed in our mission Relief Society bulletins, which are sent to all of our Relief Society officers. Through special meetings, songs, plays, socials, interesting projects, the mission bulletin, union meetings and conferences, every member has been made "membership conscious."
The Magazine Drive
A feature of the department meeting on Relief Society Magazine at the April general conference was the presentation of a leather-bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939 as an award to each of the twelve women who obtained the highest scores in the Magazine drive in 1939. The names of these award winners, together with identification of the Relief Societies which they represent and the record of their achievement, were in the December, 1939, issue of the Magazine. A clever skit, "Which Are You?" demonstrating effectual and ineffectual methods of presenting the merits of the Magazine to prospective subscribers was presented at this session of the conference. The dialogue was written by Luacine S. Clark, wife of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; the characters were represented by Bessie Jones (now general secretary-treasurer of the Primary Association), Luacine C. Fox and Elsie Ramsden, all KSL radio players. A complete text of this skit will be mailed soon to all stake and mission Magazine representatives, together with a supply of order blanks, receipt books, etc. The package of supplies will also contain revised regulations and instructions to Magazine representatives for the conduct of the annual Magazine drive and the preparation of reports to be submitted to the General Board at the end of the drive. These instructions were discussed at the Magazine department of the general conference by Belle S. Spafford of the General Board. (See also, "Notes to the Field," page 533.)
THE STAKE PRESIDENT'S PLACE IN THE DRIVE
Agnes M. Bolto President, Granite Stake Relief Society
IMMEDIATELY after the Relief Society Magazine drive in 1938, we began preparations for the 1939 drive. We felt that the Magazine in every home would stimulate attendance and increase membership. Plans were discussed in a stake board meeting, and every board member was asked to lend support to the stake Magazine representative in her work of assisting and stimulating the ward representatives in reaching the desired goal. At the first union meeting after the drive began, our stake representative gave a five-minute talk, giving a brief history and interesting facts concerning the Magazine. At every union meeting thereafter the presiding officer mentioned the Magazine briefly or read an article or poem from it which correlated with the season or the subject of the day. The ward presidents were asked to bring the Magazine before their groups every Tuesday in a similar manner. It is not an uncommon thing on Work-and-Business Day, while the women are quilting and sewing, to hear the ward Magazine representative read an article from the Magazine which radiates human interest and touches the experience of all.
544
Then the visiting teachers were asked to cooperate by taking the Magazine with them on their monthly visits, by referring to the Magazine when discussing the "Message to the Home," and by referring the names of prospective subscribers to the Magazine representative. Having no outlined message for the month of September, the visiting teachers announced the annual Magazine drive during that month, leaving in every home a printed leaflet which called attention to the value of the Magazine and to the new features added since the last drive. Prior to the drive, we held a meeting with each ward presidency and Magazine representative, where we considered a comparative report prepared by the stake Magazine representative showing for each respective ward the number of subscriptions during each of the three years preceding, the number of renewals and new subscriptions necessary to obtain one hundred per cent (i. e., Magazine subscriptions equal to the total number of members), the number of Latter-day Saint families in the ward, the number of Relief Society executive and special officers and visiting teachers and the number of these taking the Magazine. A bulletin setting forth desirable attitudes of a Magazine representative, obstacles to overcome in selling, and outstanding features of the Magazine was handed to each Magazine representative. A loose-leaf folder containing a list of all the families
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
visited by the teachers in each district, checked to indicate Relief Society members and Magazine subscribers was prepared and arranged for each ward Magazine representative. Another record, covering a four-year period, was kept of all subscribers in each district, listing addresses of the subscribers and expiration dates of subscriptions. At the beginning of the drive, the stake board gave a luncheon for ward presidents and ward Magazine representatives where ways and means were discussed for the selling of the Magazine and a splendid article on salesmanship was given to each representative. During the drive, the ward representatives reported progress weekly to the stake representative and president. A moving-picture show is sponsored every year during this drive by one of our wards. Every woman who sells ten tickets receives a subscription to the Magazine. In this ward, with 107 members, the number of Magazine subscriptions has equalled the number of members for the past five years. I acknowledge with gratitude the loyalty and faithfulness of the whole membership of Granite Stake. The benefits derived from the work of those connected with the Magazine drive can hardly be measured; not only has the stake accomplished its purpose of one hundred per cent, but its organizations have been strengthened.
"SELF-CONFIDENCE is a positive attitude built on the sure foundation of inner worth, with faith ever present."
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
545
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO SUCCESS IN MAGAZINE DRIVE
Camille W. Halliday Magazine Representative, Ensign Stake Relief Society
(Note: In behalf of the twelve Magazine representatives who were awarded bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939, Mrs. Halliday responded with appreciation, and with a discussion of factors contributing to the success of the Magazine drive in her stake, which is summarized here. )
FIRST, I would list enthusiasm. Charles M. Schwab said, "A person will succeed in anything about which he has real enthusiasm, in which he is genuinely interested; he will encounter barriers, but will meet them with such energy of thought and action that they will vanish before his onslaughts." Second, know your subject. Without personal knowledge we cannot hope to interest others. Irresistibly we are drawn to that which is made to appear close to our individual needs. Third, cooperation. It is the members that make the wards and stakes. There can be no progress without individual cooperation. Every advancement of the member advances the group. I reserved a month of my time to personally assist the ward representatives during the Magazine drive. In one or two instances where the wards were having difficulty in attaining the desired goal, I met several times with them, helped them organize their groups and personally canvassed some of their blocks. As stake Magazine representatives, be one with the women in your wards, keep informed of their progress during the drive, encourage and praise them for the special effort they are making to reach their goal. Keep your group together throughout the year by meeting with them as frequently as necessary at union meeting. There are no designated lessons for the Magazine representatives at these meetings, but we have met and discussed subjects which would help us to be better Magazine agents. During the past year we have taken up such subjects as salesmanship, personality, friendship, service, habits, dependability, and optimism.
"How sweet and gracious, even in common speech, Is that fine sense which men call Courtesy! Wholesome as air and genial as the light, Welcome in every clime as breath of flowers, It transmutes aliens into trusting friends And gives its owner passport round the globe." ?James T. Fields.