Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 2
Divisions of Priesthood?The Aaronic Priesthood (Tuesday, November 5)
"Teach them (your children) to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church." (Gospel Doctrine)
THE Aaronic Priesthood is so called because "it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations." (Doc. And Cov. 107:13) In this day, it was brought to the earth by John the Baptist, who ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the Aaronic Priesthood, May 15, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. "The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments." (Doc. And Cov. 107:20)
The offices of the Aaronic Priesthood are deacon, teacher and priest. A boy may be ordained to this Priesthood at the age of twelve. He receives first the office of deacon. When he is fifteen, if he has proved faithful to his duties, he usually is advanced to the office of teacher; at seventeen, he may become a priest. A deacon acts as a help to the bishop of his ward in many ways; such as, collecting fast offerings, cleaning meeting houses, acting as ushers at meetings and passing the Sacrament. A teacher may perform the duties of a deacon and also visit the homes of the Church members once a month to take a message from the bishop, to inquire as to conditions of people, and also to teach the Gospel. A priest may teach, preach, baptize and administer the Sacrament. He may ordain others to the Aaronic Priesthood. (See Doc. And Cov. 20:46-59)
Home Discussion Helps
To hold the Priesthood is a strength to a boy or young man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords through its activities and quorums opportunity for training in leadership, for intellectual and spiritual development.
"MORMONISM is strong because God is its author?the engineer directing its course?and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny. It is the everlasting Gospel, the saving, glorifying power of God, the power by which He carries on His mighty and marvelous work, bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."?Orson F. Whitney.
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 2
Health for Your Eyes (Tuesday, November 12)
NUTRITIONAL CARE OF THE EYES
Good general nutrition is reflected in the eyes. Eye health is now known to be affected specifically by vitamins A, B, and C.
VITAMIN A AND EYE HEALTH
Vitamin A prevents and cures Xerophthalmia, which is the Greek name for dry eye. Deficiency of this vitamin affects the epithelial tissues of the eyes and tear-secreting glands. Total blindness results if vitamin A deficiency continues too long. Nutritional night blindness, which is the inability to see in dim light, is another result of a diet low in vitamin A. Night blindness comes on so gradually that vision may be impaired without the person realizing it. People concerned with nutrition research feel that the prevalent low vitamin A diets may be the cause of many automobile accidents which occur after dark or in the dim twilight. Lack of vitamin A affects the rods of the retina, thus narrowing the range of vision. Car drivers so afflicted fail to see cross traffic when approaching intersections. They may not see pedestrians at the side of the road. Their side vision is not sufficient to prevent them from cutting in to cars running by their side. Vitamin A regenerates the visual purple in the retina of the eye and sharpens one's sense of color discrimination. Fish liver oils, liver, fish roe, egg yolk, butter and cheese are our best animal sources of vitamin A. The best vegetable sources are the green, leafy and the yellow-colored ones, such as spinach, kale, escarole, chard, beet greens, carrots. Tomatoes, apricots, prunes, and yellow peaches are also very good sources.
VITAMIN B FOR EYE HEALTH
Keratitis is a blinding eye disease which affects the cornea. Lack of riboflavin, a member of the vitamin B complex, is now seen to be the cause of keratitis. Clinical tests using this vitamin with patients whose vision was badly impaired resulted in a restoration of normal vision. Best food sources of riboflavin are liver, milk, eggs, and the dark green, leafy vegetables.
VITAMIN C FOR EYE HEALTH
Diabetic patients frequently have impaired vision due to bleeding from the tiny veins and arteries in the retina. Vitamin C strengthens the fragile walls of these blood vessels and keeps this bleeding tendency under control. In the clinical tests, the use of the vitamin B complex along with vitamin C showed marked improvement in this eye condition. Brewers yeast and liver were used as the sources of the B complex.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Rich sources of vitamin C are tomatoes, citrus fruits, sweet peppers, cabbage and other raw, leafy vegetables.
MEDICAL CARE OF THE EYES
Vision defects which are not nutritional usually come from changes in the shape of the eyeball or from disturbances in the muscles which control the eyes. Such defects should be corrected according to recommendations from a physician who is trained in the care of the eyes. Faulty vision affects one's physical well-being. Eye strain is a common cause of poor posture. Poor digestion is another result of eye strain. Vision defects often retard the child's progress in school. Following are recipes for some of these foods which are important to good health:
LIVER BAKED IN SOUR CREAM
1? pounds liver ? pound salt pork 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon salt Tomato juice or French dressing.
Use a covered baking dish. Cut salt pork in small strips. Cut liver in one-half inch slices. Put pieces of salt pork between slices of liver and sprinkle each layer with lemon or tomato juice or French dressing. Let stand one-half hour. Pour over it the sour cream. If beef or pork liver is used, let the liver stand 2 or 3 hours or over night after it has been mixed with the sour cream. This helps cut some of the strong flavor of the liver and makes it more tender. Bake in a moderate oven (300 degrees F.) until tender?about 1? hours for veal and 2 hours for beef or pork liver.
CARROTS IN PARSLEY BUTTER
4 cups carrots 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter
563
2 tablespoons lemon juice 4 tablespoons finely chopped parsley
Wash and scrape the carrots and cut them in slices or dice them. Cook in a small quantity of boiling, salted water 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender. Drain, add the butter, lemon juice, and parsley, and serve at once. Serves 8.
SPINACH SOUFFLE
1 cup strained spinach 1 tablespoon minced onion 1 cup medium white sauce 2 eggs Salt and paprika
Add the spinach, the onion, and the seasoning to the white sauce, then add the beaten egg yolks. Beat the whites of the eggs until they are stiff. Fold them lightly into the first mixture, and turn this into a buttered baking dish. Set the dish in a pan of hot water and bake the souffle for 30 minutes in a moderate oven (300 to 350 degrees F.) Serve at once from the dish in which it is baked. Serves 4.
CABBAGE SALAD WITH WHIPPED CREAM DRESSING
3 cups shredded green cabbage ? pint cream ? tablespoons lemon juice 1? teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon scraped onion 3 tablespoons ground horseradish
Put the shredded cabbage in a cool place to become crisp. Whip the cream, add the seasonings, and combine with the cabbage just before serving. If allowed to stand after mixing, the juices are drawn from the cabbage and the dressing becomes too thin. Serve the salad very cold. Serves 6.
References
Human Nutrition?Year Book, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. Foods Rich in Vitamins, Esther Peterson Daniel, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Home Economics. Foundations of Nutrition, Mary Swartz Rose. Consult any good physiology text on structure of the eyes.
Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 2
Adam Bede (Tuesday, November 19)
Lesson Topics
1. Brief review
2. The setting
3. The characters
Review
The last lesson gave briefly the story or plot of Adam Bede?the love of Adam for Hetty Sorrel, her love for Arthur Donnithorne, their sin and its resulting effects upon Hetty, leading her to the greater crime of infant-murder, Adam's desperate effort to save her from execution, Arthur's remorse and intervention, her deportation and death in a foreign land, Arthur's sacrifice to atone for his weakness, and Adam's ultimate happiness in marriage to Dinah Morris. The theme, or central idea, that every act is followed by inevitable consequences which often affect many lives was pointed out. We see how the sin of Hetty and Arthur brings tragedy to themselves and to others, even to Adam who is wholly blameless, as are so many in actual life who suffer because of the weaknesses or sins of others. In lesson two, other phases of the novel will be considered, particularly the setting and the characters.
Setting
One of the three essentials of the novel besides the plot, is the setting, or the time and place of the action of the story. It is from this phase of the novel that we receive much of the intellectual value previously mentioned. Many facts about the country, the manners and customs of the times, events in history, prevailing views and attitudes are almost unconsciously acquired through a careful study of the background. Adam Bede is a story of Warwickshire, England, in the nineteenth century. We first see Adam and his brother Seth at work in a carpenter shop. This shop is described accurately, as are the various parts of Hall Farm, the different units of the ancestral home of the Donnithornes, the rectory, and the humble home of the schoolmaster. So we become acquainted with many types of homes and the kinds of life lived in them. We are shown the church, the inn, the prison. We see the highways, meadows, and other phases of natural scenery. George Eliot suggests in the first sentence what she is going to do for us in the matter of setting. She says: "With a single drop of ink for a mirror the Egyptian sorcerer undertakes to reveal to any chance comer far-reaching visions of the past. That is what I undertake to do for you, reader. With this drop of ink on the end of my pen, I will show you the roomy workshop of Jonathan Burge, carpenter and builder, in the village of Hayslope, as it appeared on the eighteenth of June, in the year of our Lord 1799." Then she draws a picture of the room with five men at work, with Adam's dog asleep on a heap of shavings. She gives us the smell of the pine wood they are working on,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
of the elderberry blossoms beside the window; she gives the glint of the sunbeams shining through the transparent shavings that fly before the planes of the workmen. We are shown the Burge's home across the way with its "smooth gray thatch and buff walls looking pleasant and mellow in the evening light. The leaded windows were bright and speckless and the doorstone was as clean as a white boulder at ebb-tide." We are introduced to the characters as they go about their habitual work, and we see them as a part of the background which helps to make them what they are. We first meet Mrs. Burge standing out vividly on her doorstone, dressed in her dark-striped linen gown, red kerchief, and a linen cap, talking to her speckled fowls. We see the Poyser dairy: "Such coolness, such purity, such fresh fragrance of new-pressed cheese, of firm butter, of wooden vessels perpetually bathed in pure water, such soft colouring of red earthenware and creamy surfaces, brown wood and polished tin, grey limestone and rich orange-red rust on the iron weights and hooks and hinges...." She shows us Bartle Massey's home, where, despite the fact that "no woman but his dog Vixen" was allowed to enter, his table was "as clean as if Vixen had been an excellent housewife in a checkered apron; clean also was the quarry floor and the old carved oaken press." In contrast to this small abode is the rector's home with its "large and lofty dining room with an ample mullioned oriel window at one end, new walls not yet painted, but with old furniture, a threadbare, crimson cloth over the large dining table upon which stands a massive silver waiter with a coat-of-arms conspicuous on its center, a room which makes you suspect the inhabitants inherited more of blood than wealth." Through such background details we understand the type of life the
565
characters lived, for the author fuses the setting with characterization and plot. She describes the church as she presents the activities centering there; such as, regular services or a funeral. She shows us an open-air Methodist service at which the lovable preacher, Dinah Morris, presides. Aside from the interest she creates in the characters of Dinah and her varied listeners, and their responses to her sermon, she gives us many significant facts about the Methodist Church. Woven with the picture of the festival at Squire Donnithorne's estate, there are many interesting details about various social classes in England?their customs and traditions, significant events of national importance that are before the public; such as, war with France, the activities of Napoleon, the reactions of the people to their times. It is evident, then, that much knowledge may be gained from the setting. Our intellectual horizons are pleasurably widened at the same time that we are enjoying the story. Knowledge gained in this way has, perhaps, even more truth than that acquired in the formal processes of learning; for as someone has said, "History tells us what men have done. Literature in addition tells us how they felt about it, which is of even greater significance."
Characters
There are also ethical values to be gained from a study of the novel. These values are closely tied up with the characters, their ideals, their attitudes, their philosophies of life as they face the realities of their world. We may know characters in a book better than it is possible to know
566
people in real life. The author reveals to us their motives, factors of heredity, the influence of environment which help to make them what they are and which cause them to respond to life as they do. We may apply such knowledge of human behavior learned from novels to real characters about us, and so come to know them better. Of the characters in this novel the central one is Adam Bede, a man whose ideals and integrity we admire and long to make our own. He believes that: "There's the speerit o' God in all things and all times, week day as well as Sunday, and in the great works and inventions; and God helps us with our head pieces and our hands as well as with our souls, and if a man does bits o' jobs out o' working hours?builds a' oven for's wife to save her from going to the bake house, or scratches at his bit o' garden and makes two potatoes grow instead o' one, he's doing more good and he's just as near God as if he was running after some preacher and a praying and a groaning." He also says, however, that "if a man gets religion he'll do his work none the worse for it." Adam has a passion for work and a great pride in doing his best, no matter what the task. When quitting time comes, the other men in the carpenter shop drop whatever they are doing and prepare to leave. One man throws down his hammer as he is in the act of lifting it; another leaves a screw half driven in. "Adam alone had gone on with his work as if nothing had happened. He said to the others in a tone of indignation, 'Look there now! I can't abide to see men throw away their tools in that way the minute the clock begins to strike, as if they took no pleasure in their work and was afraid of doing a stroke too much.' " He has a keen sense of duty toward his parents, although he has no patience with his drinking father.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
Once he felt as if he could endure the burden of providing for the family and the disgust of seeing his father come home drunk no longer, and he ran away. "But he thought of his mother and Seth left behind to endure everything without him, and he came back the next day. Realizing the misery and torture his mother had suffered in his absence, he resolved that that could never happen again. He said, 'If you've got a man's heart and soul you can't be easy making your own bed and leaving the rest to lie on the stones.' " He is very independent and is not cowed by those above him in social rank. Though he and Arthur Donnithorne, despite their difference in social status, had been friends for years, and though Arthur had just given him a position which would insure his economic independence and a chance to do the kind of work he liked, when he discovered that Arthur was trifling with Hetty's affections he fearlessly confronted him: "I don't know what you mean by flirting, but if you mean behaving to a woman as if you loved her and not loving her at all the while, I say that's not the action of an honest man, and what isn't honest comes to harm.... It'll not be soon forgot as you've come between her and me; you've robbed me of my happiness while I thought you was my best friend and a noble-minded man I was proud to work for. And you've been kissing her and meaning nothing, have you? And I never kissed her in my life?but I'd ha' worked hard for years for the right to kiss her. And you make light of it.... I throw back your favors, for you're not the man I took you for.... You don't want to fight me because you think I'm a common man as you can injure without answering for it.... I tell you you're a double faced man. I won't go away without fighting you.... You're a coward and a scoundrel, and I despise you." Yet, after the duel, Adam cares for
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Arthur as he would have done for a brother. His love for Hetty is pathetic. Terrible as her sin is, he stands by her to the end. He says to Dinah after the trial?Hetty's trial for murder when they think she is to be hanged: "If only I could have done anything to save her?if my bearing anything would ha' done any good!" And when he goes to the prison to tell her good-by, and she asks his forgiveness for the wrong she has done him, he says with a half sob, "Yes, I forgive thee Hetty. I forgave thee long ago." The above quotations indicate but a few points in Adam's admirable character. The book is filled with them. He is not perfect, but he is splendidly human. It would be interesting, if space permitted, to discuss and illustrate traits of the other characters. Each
567
one is worthy of special consideration; his philosophy, his visions and struggles give a sense of the fundamental nobility in human nature. In such points lie the ethical values in the study of the novel.
Teaching Helps
1. By which method, direct or indirect, does George Eliot chiefly present her characters? Illustrate.
2. What are Seth's outstanding characteristics? Give some quotations to uphold your views.
3. How may Mrs. Bede's character help mothers to avoid faults in regard to their children and their own happiness?
4. Analyze Hetty's character and discuss the part environment and heredity may have had in making her what she is.
5. Quote some of Mrs. Poyser's trenchant and amusing sayings.
6. The chief problem of the novelist is to create an illusion of reality. Mention some of the means by which George Eliot achieves this illusion.
Social Service
EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Long-Time Vision of Family Life (Tuesday, November 26)
WHEN war and rumors of war become prevalent throughout the nations of the world, as is the condition today, hazardous changes come along with such rapidity that habits, mores, and institutions are subjected to a stress and strain that rush them from their moorings and often leave them so modified that millions of men and women must change the routine of their lives and adjust to new conditions of living. When a nation is faced with the necessity of turning its attention and efforts toward preparedness and defence along military lines, there is a danger that it may, temporarily at least, lose sight of the fundamental importance of its social institutions; this is particularly true with respect to the family. Many of the changes that are forced upon us prove to be advantageous for our growth and progress;
568
but, on the other hand, great gains that have been made during past generations are completely lost, or receive a setback that may require generations to overcome. Many of the mores are replaced by hedonistic life adjustments on a short-term basis. This is particularly obvious among the mores that have to do with the family. The preservation of values, to serve as the social heritage of future generations, can be greatly aided by developing power of vision on the part of individuals and groups, and through the practice of long-time planning for the life of the individual as well as for the life of the group. During the last half century our attitude toward life has been consistently turning more and more toward the extrovertive philosophy. We have been more concerned with getting things done than with the consequences of what we do. We have been interested in what the family, the church, or other institutions, what life itself has to offer as a reward for today, rather than in the rewards of tomorrow; and the reward that makes the strongest appeal is the one which comes in the nature of immediate pleasures. This attitude toward life in general has penetrated our attitudes toward family life to the extent that it is not uncommon today to find persons who lend a listening ear to that small group who predict no future for the institution of the family. Any nation that is sincerely concerned with the building up of national defense mechanisms and agencies can well afford to turn attention to its family life, both for the present and for the future. Does the future of the family, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
our primary social institution, warrant the necessary time and effort required to train and educate for vision and long-time planning? We quote Groves: "If the question, 'What is to be the future of the family?' means whether it is to continue, the answer must be that it is as secure as the human race itself.... So long as the generations of mankind come and go, there must be the perpetuation, in some form, of family activities and values, since there is nothing to indicate that the evolutionary process can go into reverse and gradually wipe out the extension of the infancy period which gave man his opportunity and his culture.... The destiny of the family and of the human race are inseparably tied together so far as the future is concerned." * For members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the future of the family means more than it can possibly mean to any other group of people. To those who are united in the holy bonds of matrimony in our temples, it means family life throughout all eternity. With such a belief, the pertinent question before us is not, "Shall we consider the long-time plan?" but rather, "How shall we go forward in our program of long-time planning for the family?" The source of our greatest hope lies in our ability to offer to every young man and young woman an opportunity for education and training for marriage and parenthood, and also to provide for those who are married every possible means of assistance in solving their problems as they arise and in helping them to plan for the future, that the eventide of life may offer the choicest and richest of satisfactions. Too few parents are conscious of the fact that the ideal or the picture of family life that their children bring to their own marriage represents a mosaic made from the daily experiences and ideals that are part of the everyday life in the parental home. Minor incidents, about which the parents give no thought, often form important parts in the mosaic of the family life of their offspring. The degree of happiness that one enjoys during the latter years of life does not come accidentally, nor is it a gift of the fates or just good luck, as many say. Rather, it is the result of living a life well planned; of accepting, as they come, the disappointments and tears, the labors and sacrifices, the laughter and joys, the loves and companionships, giving to each its proper weight and consideration. There is no place for the fair-weather type of person or the blue-Monday type in family life. Family living offers little to the person who lives for immediate rewards in the form of fun and good times, because many are the days that are too crowded with family duties and responsibilities to permit the use of time for amusements. Many immediate joys come as a by-product of homely, routine living; but at the same time, deferred payments in happiness are being stored for future years. A REMARK frequently heard in a certain neighborhood is, "Did you ever know a couple who are more fortunate than Mr. and Mrs. R? Even though they are in their sixties, they enjoy life more than any-
*Ernest R. Groves, The Family and Its Social Functions, pages 597-98.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
one in the neighborhood, young or old." A little investigation reveals the fact that the R's are enjoying rich dividends from the investment of living a well-planned life. The R's are living in their own home, the same one in which their five children were born. Their family consists of three daughters and two sons, all of whom are married, and all except one daughter live within a radius of one hundred miles from the parental home. The outstanding characteristics of this family can be felt as well as seen when they are together. Comradeship and cooperation, harmony and consideration for each other are the most impressive traits of the group. Probably, we should add to the above list the fact that all are specimens of unusual physical well-being. When Mr. and Mrs. R were asked what particular family practices and customs they thought had contributed most to their success as a family, they agreed that having had specific goals since they were first married, and definitely worked-out plans by which they hoped to reach these goals, had been their most beneficial practice. The goals were: (1) to have a family of strong, healthy children; (2) to own their home; (3) to be able to provide opportunity for the education of their children; (4) to have their children active members of the church; (5) to have their children honorable members of the community; (6) to have their children as happily married as they themselves. The eldest son, who was present at the interview, said that another factor that had contributed to the success of their family life, and which had impressed each of
569 the children, 570 was the fact that the mother and father had always put the welfare of the family first; nothing ever seemed as important as the family group. Mr. R said that almost as soon as each child was born the family "blueprints" were placed before him, so that by the time he reached his teens he was fairly well inculcated with the desires and expectations of the family; and each one was expected to contribute to the success of the aims. Mts. R said, "Let me assure you that it has not all been as easy and smooth running as it appears at this stage of our lives. We have had our troubles, disappointments, and _sortows, but we have always tried to meet them together and accept whatever was inevitable without complaining. Every once in a while when the children were small, and it seemed as if Mark (her husband) and I were not getting nearly as much fun out of life as our friends were, we would ask ourselves if we were not too concerned about the future, at the expense of the present. However, at the end of such a discussion, we always agreed that we were on the right road to happiness. And now when we look back on the journey, we wonder how we ever could have felt that we were missing anything of importance." She continued, "Naturally, young children keep their parents away from many clubs, parties, shows, and entertainments of one kind and another, but I think they also keep a lot of married folk out of the divorce courts, and out of other troubles, too! Another thing we have always tried to do is to keep check on our desires and not allow them to get out of bounds, and so in the long run we 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940

 have enjoyed a greater degree of contentment." Undoubtedly, the last statement suggests something of significance in the marital accord of Mr. And Mrs. R. It is difficult to enumerate incidents which contribute to marital happiness because of the subjective nature of happiness. In answer to the question, "What is marital satisfaction?" Nimkoff says: "Clearly it is an individual matter. Some persons are disheartened by the slightest degree of domestic conflict; others would be miserable without it." There is a story by O. Henry, in illustration, of the wife who always required her husband to give her a severe drubbing as evidence of his interest in her. When he was kind to her, she became uneasy, thinking he must be centering his affection on another woman. It is clear that some husbands and wives stay together, satisfied, under circumstances that would drive others apart. Why should this be so? "The degree of one's satisfaction with one's marriage depends on the relation between two things: (1) what one expects, and (2) what one receives.... Satisfaction with marriage may be increased by expecting less, or achieving more. The situation may be represented by the formula: Achievement Expectation "If 'expectations' are given free rein and allowed to run_ wild, 'achievement' cannot hope to keep pace. Happiness in marriage, therefore, requires the imposition of a self-discipline which keeps desires and their possible realization in proper balance." "M. F. Nimkoff, The Family, pages 381- 82. Happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT This working principle is worthy to be incorporated in every family plan. FAMILY of healthy children came first in the R family picture. Need we say more than to call attention to the fact that the functions of parenthood provide the central core about which the institution of the family has developed. To justify the remark of Mrs. R in reference to children and divorce, we refer to the report of the Bureau of the Census, Marriage and Divorce, 1932, Table 8, which shows that about three-fifths of all divorces granted that year were granted to childless couples, and one-fifth involved families of one child only; 1.6 per cent had four children, and 0.1 per cent were couples with eight children. We must not conclude that the number of children was the only factor in determining divorces, but we may assume that it was an important factor. For a family to own its own home is undoubtedly an asset. We shall consider this matter in a subsequent lesson. The question of religion has likewise been discussed in the preceding lesson. At this time, we merely refer to the findings of Burgess and Cottrell' in their study of 526 families, which were as follows: Both brides and grooms who reported no church connections rated lower than the average in good marriage adjustment. Of more significance than church membership in determining religious interest, was attendance at church services and Sunday School. In this regard, it was found that attendance at Sunday School was correlated "Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Chapter VIII. 571 with marital success. Mates who never attended Sunday School, or who discontinued going after ten years of age, showed a decidedly lower proportion of highly successful marriages as far as adjustment was the criteria; while those who continued to attend Sunday School until they were nineteen to twenty-five years old, or older, showed a higher proportion of successful marriages, with few failures. From this particular study, we find that religious activity and interest, as demonstrated by attendance at church, is positively correlated with probabilities of marital success. Mr. And Mrs. R have been active members in the church all their lives, as were their parents before them. With a justified pride, Mr. R said, "Well, one thing Sarah (his wife) and I can truthfully say is that our method of instilling religion into our children has been by example, and we are pretty well satisfied with the results." It would, indeed, be of great value if a well-trained person could make a detailed study of the R family for the purpose of discovering what influences and practices have been responsible for their success. Mrs. R says that from childhood she was taught to consider the probable effect of today's actions on tomorrow's living, and she was impressed with the high degree of pride that her mother showed in her work as a homemaker. These two points stand out as important influences in her childhood. Mr. R says that he remembers an outstanding characteristic of father to be the fact that he was always working according to a definite plan and for a specific purpose. Asa child, his father was forever 572 asking him two questions; namely, "What are you doing it for?" and "How are you going to do it?" We believe the above factors in the childhood training of Mr. And Mrs. R 'have contributed much in determining their subsequent plan of family life. S a nation, as a state, as a community, as a ward, we must look to the future values of family life. We must lay the foundation of family living according to the fundamentals of religious and moral training, and specific education for marriage and parenthood. Groves says, ""There is much more hope of society's insisting upon better preparation for parenthood. The insight that has been gathered by psychoanalysis, psychological and sociological investigation, and by psychiatric experience gives force to the growing conviction that both the mother and the father need to have, not only for their own good and that of the child but for the welfare of society, an understanding of their responsibilities that can never come without specific preparation. At present, otherwise highly trained individuals can easily be found who as fathers and mothers are not only basically ignorant of their task but mentally closed to any approach of science. The penalties of their unfitness for their responsibilities appear clearly but not, as a rule, until their children have gone so far away from the formative period that little can be done to reconstruct their personalities. The home cannot be left isolated as science goes forward in its understanding of human life. It seems fair to say that nowhere as yet is there such wastage of opportunity 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940

 as is found in the home of parents who either neglect or are unprepared to meet the character-needs of their children. "A well-secured civilization shows its strength through the quality of family life that it has brought forth and protects. At no time in human history were there more resources than at present for the building of wholesome family life or for making it the means of advancing human welfare. The proper functioning of the home, however, demands that parental intelligence improve, since chiefly from the home must come the discipline and motivation necessary for a wide use of the resources provided by our rapid material progress. From no quarter will our political and social leadership get larger returns than from investment of thought and endeavor in matters that concern the family. The social functions that belong to the family give it the key position in the program of social adaptation which decides the survival of each civilization just as the physical and psychic adjustment determines the life career of each individual." To carefully plan for the utilization of all available resources for the enhancement of family living is not only the mark of a wise and educated couple, but it is also an investment that will return the highest dividends in family happiness. The earlier the "newly-weds" work out their "blueprints" for family living, the greater will be their value, provided the plans are not allowed to lose plasticity and thereby become static. Growth and development call for intelligent modification of plans. 'Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, page 594. LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems and Questions 1. What is your interpretation of the findings of the Burgess and Cottrell study referred to in the lesson? In general, what are the characteristics of young people who prefer religious rather than civil marriages? 2. In the light of your own experience in a plan for successful family living, what factors would you add to those suggested by Mr. And Mrs. R? Which would you eliminate from their list? 3. If you have a long-time plan for your family, what methods are you using to make your children conscious of the plan? Give examples to show to what extent the children are cooperating for the successsful working out of the plan. 573 4. Mrs. R says that since the first marriage in their family it has been customary for as many members of the family as possible to come for family dinner one Sunday each month. As many as can, arrive Saturday evening. It is seldom that fewer than four of the five families are present for these dinners. Make a list of possible objections to this practice and a list of advantages. Suggest ways and means of overcoming the objectional factors. References E. R. Groves, The Family and Its Social Functions, Chapter XXI. Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Chapter VIII. ??Mission Lessons LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XI Happenings in Nauvoo (Tuesday, November 19) IN ancient Arabia there was a sacred bird called phenix. Its plumage was red and golden, and it tesembled an American eagle. Every five hundred years, so the story goes, this bird left its native country, flew to Heliopolis, in Egypt, burned itself on the altar, and then rose from its ashes younger and more beautiful than ever. The phenix has become a symbol of. The resurrection. The Latter-day Saints of this petiod were like that. You remember what happened to them in Missouri. Some of them were killed, others severely wounded, most of them were robbed of their property, and all of them were driven from the state. And then, to make matters worse, their leader, after being sentenced to be shot, was kept in prison for five and one-half months. Everybody, except the Saints themselves, thought that was the end of Mormonism. You have seen, also, how the Prophet won his freedom, how he chose Commerce for the new home and changed its name, how he healed the sick on the river banks by the power of God, and how houses went up, a temple was planned, and a government was established. But there was something back of this planning and building. What was it? It was the spirit of a people, the faith and hope of men and women?a spirit, a faith, a hope that could not be defeated by any adversity. Nauvoo, on its spiritual side, 574 shows how the Saints, like the phenix, rose from the ashes stronger and more lusty than ever. THAT strikes us most in this Nauvoo period of between five and six years is not the city nor the government nor the Legion nor the university nor the tremendous activity there, but rather the way in which the Church developed and spread. This is shown in two respects: First, the missionary work was pushed with new vigor. You may recall that the English mission grew out of the mission to Canada. That was in the Kirtland days. Now, after the expulsion from Missouri, it was decided to push the work in Great Britain. Seven of the Apostles were sent over the Atlantic, to join Willard Richards, who had been left there to preside over the Saints. At the same time, Elder Orson Hyde was sent to Palestine to dedicate the land for the gathering of the Jews. It happened, then, that eight of the Apostles were in England at one time, and one in Palestine. At this time in England there were thirty-four branches of the Church, with a total membership of sixteen hundred and eighty-six. Then the eight Apostles went to work there. They met with great success. 'This was especially true in the part of England where Elder Wilford Woodruff labored. In a few weeks he baptized eighteen hundred persons, which more than doubled the Church membership there. Scores of these were preachers. In other parts of the country the Apostles met with encouragement. Before they returned home, they had increased the membership of the 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940

 Church there to four thousand. Also, they had established a periodical, the Millennial Star, and published a large edition of the Book of Mormon. Meantime, Orson Hyde had gone to Palestine alone. In October, 1841, he ascended the Mount of Olives and dedicated the land for the gathering of the Jews. Here, and later on Mount Moriah, he erected a pile of stones as a witness to what he had done. About this time, it is interesting to note, the spirit of gathering came upon that people; and now there are more than three hundred thousand Jews in Palestine. The land is under the protectorate of England. BUT at home, in Nauvoo, a great deal was going on, too. The Prophet made known some important truths to the Saints. Much of this centered in the idea of home? home here and hereafter. You may know that Christians generally believe that baptism is essential to salvation, just as Jesus said it is. But there have been millions of men and women who, while they lived on earth, did-not hear of the Gospel. What was to become: of them? If they could be saved without baptism, then baptism was not necessary for salvation; and, on the other hand, if it was necessary, then they would not be saved, no matter how much they deserved to be. Here was a strange dilemma. Our Prophet, however, showed Christians the way out. Man consists of a spirit and a body. The body is the house in which the spirit lives. The spirit existed before it entered the body, it exists in the body, and it will continue to exist LESSON DEPARTMENT after it lays down the body in death. It is the spirit, not the body, that thinks and acts and loves. It can do these things without the body. Hence, when a person dies, his spirit goes into the spirit world, where it goes on thinking and acting and feeling, just as it did in the flesh. The Prophet said the Gospel is preached in this world of the spirit, just as it is in this world of the flesh. And the spirit is able there to receive or to reject the Gospel, as it is here. But there are certain ordinances, like baptism, that have to be performed in the body, since they cannot be performed in the spirit world. When, therefore, one of the spirits is converted to the Gospel there, someone must be baptized for him here. This was not a new teaching. It was known to the ancient Saints and practiced by them. Paul says, "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Corinthians 15:2 This work of baptism for the dead was done at first in the Mississippi River, after the doctrine was revealed to the Prophet. Later, when the temple there was finished, it was performed in that house. This is partly why the Latter-day Saints build so many temples. Doing work for the dead, however, was not the only doctrine taught by the Prophet at this time. You have probably observed that it is our human relationships that give us the most happiness here. Always we find people to love?parents, wives and husbands, and then children?and always our circle of friendships widen. Love is the great- 575 est thing in the world. What would we do without our loved ones and our friends? But these relationships are just as necessary to our happiness in the next world as they are here. That is what Joseph Smith taught. He could not derive any comfort from the notion so commonly accepted as true in other churches, that we shall not know one another in Heaven, nor care to know any one. On the contrary, he knew that our joys here come from our knowing and loving other people. It was during this period, then, that the Lord revealed the idea of celestial marriage. Celestial marriage is marriage for eternity as well as for time. You may know that in other churches a man and a woman are married till death parts them. That means that they will not be husband and wife in the hereafter. It is as if a ceremony were instituted by which a couple were married for, say, ten years; after the ten years were ended, they would not be married any more. That is the way it is in other churches?they marry only for time. The reason, of course, is that the ministers do not have the authority to perform marriage ceremonies for more than this life. Joseph Smith had that authority. It was given to him by the ancient Apostles, Peter and James and John, who had received it from Christ himself. And so, when he performed a marriage ceremony for eternity as well as for time, the man and the woman were married for the next world as well as for this world. But that was not all. The children born of this marriage would be their children in Heaven as well as on the earth. In this way the race would be 576 united there. And thus, people would find happiness in Heaven, instead of the misery of being alone. This is what came of having divine Priesthood. The Lord not only gave the Prophet certain knowledge about the next life, but he gave him also the necessary authority to perform the ordinances of salvation for that life. You may remember reading that Jesus said to Peter, "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt. Bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (Matt. 16:19.) These keys Peter gave to Joseph Smith. That is why the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, alone, has the right to perform ordinances for time and eternity. Questions 1. What was the condition of the Saints 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940

 when they entered Illinois? What might be expected to happen to them? 2. What did happen to them? How do you account for this? What had Joseph Smith to do with all this? 3. Tell about the mission to England: first, the one in which the Gospel was introduced there, and then the mission during this Nauvoo period. 4. What has brought you the greatest happiness in this world? To what extent have other people contributed to your happiness? How can this happiness be continued in the next world? 5. What must you do to be happy in the next world? Why do the Saints build temples? Name them. 6. Explain why there should be baptism for the dead. In connection with this lesson, read: Section 128, of the Doctrine and Covenants, baptism for the dead; Section 131, on celestial marriage; Section 133, on gathering; Section 135, on the martyrdom. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.