(To be continued) LATTER-DAY SAINT CHAPEL, WASHINGTON, D. C. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon OW may the Christmas candle burn in every window, and the light of love in every heart. GPP books are always acceptable and appropriate gifts. They hold treasures of the human mind, uplifting, pleasurable and indestructible. NANCY LEE SWAN in her book "Pao Chao" claims this great scholar was the first woman to plead for higher education of women. Had ancient China, which claims to be the mother of civilization, heeded her pleading and accepted her philosophy there would have been a far different story than the foot binding, physical and mental torture of the Chinese woman. Pao Chao lived the first century A. D. SUSAN ERTZ, English novelist, has written the epic story of the Mormon migration and early life among the settlers of Utah, entitled, "The Proselyte." The outstanding chapter is the vivid description of the sufferings and disaster which befell the ill-fated handcart company of 1856. Her characters are chosen from an ignorant and fanatical class giving an entirely wrong impression of the pioneers of Utah, who were a far different type. As a record of events, it is perhaps as true as any work of fiction yet written about the Mormon people by any one not of their faith. OLGA KNOFF, noted _psychiatrist, has written a new book "The Art of Being a Woman," in which she argues only by cooperation and not antagonism can women develop equality. SHEILA KAYE SMITH has again pleased her reading public with a story of Sussex life called "Gipsy Wagon." ELEANOR ROOSEVELT'S book, "It's Up to the Women," contains advice on home making and rearing a family, while incidentally she urges women to enter politics and public life. IRENA SKARIATINA, Russian exiled princess, has written another book on Russia. It is called "First to go Back." She is the only royalist yet given permission by the Soviets to revisit her native land. SIGRID UNSET?'S latest novel, "The Burning Bush," closes a trilogy with Paul Selmer the leading figure. The book is not at all equal to the wonderful books giving the life of Kristin Landsvatter, but is a colorful story of Norwegian life. MARY ROBERTS RINEHART'S latest endeavor is a crusade against crime by women. Her plan of organization if carried out might be both possible and effective. JSHBEL MACDONALD, beautiful M. P., in the midst of her campaigning, has succumbed to Cupid's darts and become engaged toa professor of Ethics at Montreal. WOMEN of the Philippines have been granted suffrage—the first among oriental women to have this privilege. Miss SOPHRONIA BECKENRIDGE the woman member of Secretary Hull's delegation to Montevideo is an outstanding authority on social and economic questions both local and national. Her appointment to this delegation is a distinct recognition of service and ability and a high compliment to the womanhood of the nation.