Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) RESPONSIBILITY OF CONVEYING THE TRUTH TO OTHERS 1. A Natural Impulse. It does not appear that truth belongs to any individual alone, but rather to the world as a whole. Moreover the possession of it is seemingly accompanied by an impulse to pass it on to others. The reason for this does not at first appear to be easily explained. Within the present week the writer - of this lesson was visited by a famous American scientist, now chief paleontologist to the Chinese geological survey. He had come to America on a short visit, after thirteen years' absence. Plans call for his return to China where he will continue his work indefinitely into the future. He has an obsession for work and is willing to sacrifice practically every earthly comfort therefor. Already he is the author of nearly a score of memoirs on the fossil history of China and purposes to publish many more. His chief urge is two-fold, namely, to discover the truth, and to make it available for others. 2. The life of this man offers a key to the understanding of others. It is doubtful if a human being exists who really loves the truth who is not anxious to pass it on to others. Indeed, this is so universally true that it may be used as a criterion by which to determine the degree of man's actual devotion to truth. It is hardly possible, for example, that the indifferent and careless Latterday Saint actually loves the gospel. The Savior has said that, "If a man love me, he will keep my words." It is similarly true that if a Latterday Saint really loves the truth he will industriously convey it to others, for there is something about the possession of truth that impels one to share it with his fellow beings. 3. Command to Teach. If God has implanted in the hearts of his children the desire to share with one another the more or less commonplace truths of nature, how much more fully he must have implanted the desire to share the truths of the everlasting gospel. Indeed, he has also commanded that this be done. To his disciples of old he said: ''Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." (Mark 15:15-16.) He repeated the same injunction to his diciples in modern times. Here are his words: "Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." (Doc. And Cov. 68:8.) 4. While it is true that these injunctions were given to a few especially authorized individuals holding the Holy Priesthood, yet the Lord exempts no one from doing likewise, for "whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God." Again, '"Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle 750 with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God." (Doc and Cov. 11:3.) Special authority is required to perform certain missions and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel, but no one is enjoined from teaching the truths revealed of God; indeed the Lord expects that such will be the case. In response to a desire on the part of John Whitmer to know what would be of the most worth to him, the Lord said: "Behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father."" (Doc. And Cov. 15:6.) "TI give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom." (Doc. And Cov. 88:77.) 5. Unused Gifts. For the purpose of explaining the necessity of using the gifts of God, Jesus gave the parable of the talents (which read; see Matthew 25: 15-30.) Its purport is as follows: A man gave unto one of his servants five talents, to another two, and to another one; "to every man according to his several ability." He that received the five talents traded with the same and made five other talents; likewise he that received the two talents gained two more; but he that received the one talent hid it in the earth. When the man returned he was so well pleased with the first two servants that he made them rulers over many things. But from the third servant who had secreted his tatent in the ground because of fear that he might lose it, the man took the single talent which he had given him. 6. The scientific accuracy of the principle herein employed is of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE course well known. It is axiomatic in the animate things of nature that intelligent use invariably results in progress; whereas prolonged inactivity is followed by decline. In the case of a musician, for example, decline is so rapid that a performer usually pleads "out of form? if he has not practiced within the last few days. For the same reason, the coach of a football team would not permit his men to go into a game if they had been out of training as short a time asa week. So far as we know, no human attainment is immune to deterioration when activity ceases. Among human beings intelligent activity is the advance guard of progress; similarly, inactivity is the forerunner of decline. 7. This being true, it is not difficult to understand how active Latter-day Saints become increasingly more enthusiastic in their work, and why inactive ones become less so. Both conditions are the result of well-defined law. The ability to improve with intelligent use is one of God's choicest gifts to man. It makes attainment possible. Indeed, it endows man with the ability to ascend to the very throne of God. Naturally, such a gift is guarded by Deity with the most zealous care To those who appreciate its worth, he gives with unstinted hand; and from those who neglect it, he withdraws that which he has already given. This is his means of reward and disapproval. 8. It is clear, then, that no Latterday Saint can hope to retain the testimony which God has given him if he makes no effort to pass it on to others. God has not intended that he shall share it alone, for truth belongs to the whole of mankind. 9. Fields of Teaching. It must not be assumed that the foreign mission field, or even the pulpit at home, LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only avenue open to the Latter-day Saint for spreading the truths of the Gospel. If this were the case, a large percentage of Church members would be left without anything to do. The Church is so organized, however, that every one who cares to "thrust in his sickle" may do so with profit, both to himself and the field which is "white already to the harvest." The Priesthood quorums and Auxiliary organizations command the services of nearly one-half of the Church membership, as officers and teachers. Aside from this, teachine in the home demands the attention of every father and mother. Finally, every member of the Church is continually in contact with individuals who need to be taught the gospel truths. Thus there is ample opportunity for all. 10. Teaching by Example. There must, of course, be no disparagement of the value of thorough preparation and experienced presentation in the matter of teaching?other things being equal they are the bases of success?but more essential than either of these is a life of unquestioned devotion. The ears are not the only avenue to the soul; the eyes often intercept thoughts which the ears never hear. Then, too, Deity has seemingly designed that the spirit of conversion shall not come from the teacher whose life belies his words. Conversion requires more than words, and dates, and sentences well framed; it requires the Spirit of God which never passes through the teacher who js insincere, or whose life is disharmonious with that which he is attempting to convey. On the other hand, familiarity with the subject and experience in teaching are an invaluable adjunct to teachers whose lives are not open to question or criticism. This is ideal. 11. Teaching in the Home. The 751 home is the most fruitful field of all. Conversions are not only more numerous here than elsewhere but more lasting. There appears to be a tendency on the part of some parents to assume that their children are amply taught in the Auxiliary organizations and elsewhere. This of course is a mistake; no agency will ever be able to replace the parent. All others are merely supplementary thereto. The Lord has placed the primary responsibility of training the child upon the parent. Here are his words: "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (Doc. And Cov. 68:25-28.) The responsibility is thus fixed and clear. 12. It is widely agreed that the teaching of childhood is more effective and lasting than that of later life. The parent must not assume, however, that the child is influenced only by her words. He is impressed immediately by the slightest act of insincerity or lack of devotion. The parent must never lose sight of the fact that she is the child's ideal.. The child may be thoroughly taught, for example, in the matter of, say, loyalty to the authorities of the Church, but the slightest disparagement, either in word or in deed, on the part of the parent, may be sufficient to shatter it. The parent must ever be watchful. Oftentimes even a jest is interpreted seriously by him. If, however, the parent is wise and truly loyal to the cause of God, she will 732 be a power for incalculable good in the life of her child. 13. Joy with those Saved. It is not pleasing to think of the misery and sorrow that will come to parents who have neglected the training of their children or to Latter-day Saints who have failed to teach the gospel to those who are not familiar with it. (We are not speaking of those who have faithfully tried and failed, but of those who have wantonly neglected that which they knew to be right.) On the other hand, it is difficult to imagine the delight that will come to those who have been faithful in conveying the truths of the everlasting gospel to others. Deity has characterized this as the most important thing that man can do. (Doc. And Cov. 16:6.) 14. Speaking to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and David Whitmer, the Savior said: ''Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great ts his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" (Doc. And Cov. 18:10-16.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1, What is it in your judgment that impels research scientists forward in their work? 2. Why are those who really love the Gospel anxious to convey it to others? 3. Why is inactivity followed by decline? 4, Why is teaching by example often more effective than by words? 5. Why are children often seriously injured by acts of insincerity on the part of their parents? Teachers' Topic SELF CONTROL "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city." ?Proverbs 16:32. "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger."?Proverbs 15:1. The strong man is he who by discipline exercises a constant control over his thoughts, his speech, and his acts. The lesson of self control extends to every department of our nature and affects every act and event of our lives. Self control means many things. The avoidance of hasty and angry words; the power to resist temptation when it comes; the power to be calm under provocation or insult; the control of temper; the power to compel yourself to do the things you ought to do, and which conscience approves. ?LESSON DEPARTMENT Self-control is a very important quality in character-building, and is very much worth while. Happy is the home where all the members have learned the arts of self-restraint and self-direction. To be able to control the tongue is rightly esteemed one of the greatest of moral achievements. The Apostle James says that: "If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to control the whole body." Self control, once acquired, will be the most important factor in helping to shape our lives rightly in every phase. The greatest possible help to self control is to learn in the moment of temptation to seek our Father in Heaven for his help and guidance, and for wisdom. "Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. For the merchan- 753 dise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof, than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies; and all things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days are in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and happy is everyone that retaineth her. The Lord by wisdom has founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens."?Proverbs 3:13-19. The outstanding characteristic of the life of our Savior was self control. It is the outstanding thought of all great spiritual teachers. Buddha says: "Though a man conquer a thousand men in battle, a greater conqueror is he that conquers himself." Literature (Third Week in February) THE LITERATURE OF THE BIBLE "Gallery of sacred pictures manifold, A minister rich in holy effigies, And bearing on entablature and frieze The hieroglyphic oracles of old. Along its transept aureoled martyrs Sit; And the low chancel side-lights half acquaint The eye with shrines of prophet, bard, and saint, Their age-dimmed tablets traced in doubtful writ! But only when on form and word obscure Falls from above the white supernal light We read the mystic characters aright, And life informs the silent portraiture, Until we pause at last, awe-held, before The one ineffable Face, love, wonder, and adore." ?Whittier. Man, face to face with the Eternal, has made his most elevated expression. Deepened in soul by his spiritual experiences, man, t h e Artist, in music, in sculpture, in literature, and in all the arts has expressed his concept of God. "Atheism writes no hymns, agnosticism does not burst into song, skepticism constructs no religions." Only a noble faith may be expected 754 to express spiritual truths with imperishable beauty. A Supreme Book The Bible has been accepted by the world as a supreme book; its "noblest classic." What, then, are the marks of a supreme Book? It is a living book. Living because it is made out of the experiences of life, the actions of men and women in their greatest moments, the permanent and abiding emotions and motives. A living book becomes immortal when its truths are expressed with beauty. The power of the message of a book is borne to us by its music, music created when the words fit like jewels in carved mountings and the sentences glide like arrows from polished shafts. Thought carried by "winged words" stirring with force the emotions bears to the soul of man an understanding of truth. Such books are supreme, supreme because being immortal they endure forever. The Bible, the literary record of the Hebrews, gives to the world Eternal truth expressed with beauty. Hebrew wisdom is embodied in the command "Know God." A small band of people in the mountains of Judea learned this wisdom through revelation. Reflecting upon the objects and experiences of life they learned eternal meanings; hence, they gave to the world no system of philosophy, the product of reasoning as did the Greeks. With a clear voice they proclaimed '"Thus saith the Lord?I am God and there is none else * * * Be ye holy, for I am holy?Behold I set before you Life and Death, therefore choose Life." "These people," said Mathey Arnold, "have a secret, they have discerned the way the world was going and therefore they have prevailed." The greatest theme of all time?God and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his purposes?gave rise to such. Beauty of expression that the sublime standard of letters has not been equalled throughout the ages. Noble men under spiritual direction learned the secret and recorded the tremendous truth in words and sentences of unforgettable beauty. "Clear thought, simple words, striking imagery, genuine emotion; these are the gold of literature." Remembering the interesting story of "How We Got Our Bible," we are in a position to realize the debt we owe to the translators of the Bible. Saint Jerome's perfect Latin version became the model for the English translators. William Tyndale was the incomparable translator who made the English Bible the glory of our language. The spirit of the Bible he felt to the depths of his being. An artist as well as a scholar, Tyndale translated the sacred words into words of such charm that subsequent translators followed his example. Coverdale, a martyr for the Bible, continued the work of Tyndale, smoothing out rough places here and there as he found them in the phrasing. The contribution of these men in the matter of language is evident when one considers the purely scholarly translation of John Calvin. It also is extremely significant that the Authorized Version of the Bible was made when the English lan- ' guage was at the height of its development, the age that gave to English literature the monumental works of Shakespeare and Milton. As we pause to look at the diction of the English Bible we linger over sentences that reveal the simplicity and majesty of the Hebrew mind through the music of our own language: "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handywork." "I, John, saw the LESSON DEPARTMENT holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride for her husband." "Consider the lilies of the field how they grow." "Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Walter Pater says of the divine appeal, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,' "how can man explain the mystery of the surpassing beauty of it? There surely is a great call from the depths of a heart of infinite love, and such a call carries its own music with it." The gospel narrator caught the intense sorrow of Jesus as he stood at the tomb of his friend, Lazarus, but William Tyndale in two words "Jesus wept" gave us an unforgettable picture and made us feel pathos that is too deep for words. The English Bible has clad the wisdom of the ages in a beauty worthy of God, His Purpose, His Power, and His Glory. "The Bible connects holiness with beauty more directly and more closely than any other work of man * *. It says what is best worth saying in the best possible way. The Authorized Version of the Bible is a piece of literature without any parallel in modern times. Other countries have their translations of the Bible but they are not great works of Art."? A. Clutton-Brock. The Literature of the Bible Saint Jerome long ago called the Bible "a divine library." In the light of modern literary and _historical study the Bible is now recognized as not one book but a library, consisting of sixty-six books bound together in one volume. Practically every kind of literary interest is represented in it?folk lore, history, biography, essay, drama, epistle, allegory, oratory, romance, vision- 755 literature, lyric poetry, and law. In Genesis we have a composite book, the Book of Beginning, the beginning of the earth, of man, the Hebrew people, the origin of the Sabbath and other institutions; in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, we have the civil and ecclesiastical laws; in Joshua and Judges, the heroic legends connected with the early settlement in Canaan; in Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, the national history of different periods recorded from different points of view. In Ruth, Esther, and Jonah, we find stories told with a moral purpose; in Psalms, the religious lyrics of the Hebrew race; in Job, a dramatic presentation of a world-problem?the mystery of evil; in Ecclesiastes, a discussion in form of an essay of the question whether life is worth living; in Proverbs, an example of aphoristic literature; in the Song of Solomon, a lyric drama with a pastoral background. The sixteen prophetic books are examples of oratory, vision-literature, and allegory. Coming to the New Testament, we find four biographies, stories of mission journeys connected with the founding of the Christian church, and collections of pastoral letters written by its organizers; and finally an allegorical vision, which Milton described as a drama "shutting up her solemn scenes and acts with a sevenfold chorus of hallelujahs and harping symphonies." The Hebrews wrote the world's first history. Four hundred years before Herodotus, the Greek historian called the Father of History, the Hebrews wrote an account of the beginning of the world. This fact has been a source of wonder since archaeology has revealed the long-buried records of the Egyptian and Mesopotamian civilizations. These peo- 756 ples left records two thousand years older than the earliest Hebrew documents. Their records were mere facts not chronicles or history. It was the Hebrew who became an historian in that he recorded facts, their evidence, explanation, and significance as he thought of the past, the present, and the future as a divine plan. Woven into and among the historical narratives of the Bible we find various literary gems as the compilers needed to illustrate or enrich the narrative. From the purely historical material of the Old Testament we gain a vivid account of Hebrew life and times while from the literary material we gain an understanding of Hebrew thought. To modern literary study of the Bible we owe also a debt of gratitude. The Authorized Version of the Bible gave to the translation a simple arrangement, thought units and unit groupings, planned in the main for reading, chanting, and responses for the existing method of church worship. The literary version of the Bible has not changed words, thoughts, or spirit, but merely rearranged the material in the form of literature. The modern reader is thus enabled to enjoy more completely the historical books of the Bible and more fully appreciate the significance of their message. The Stories of the Bible It has been said that fiction began when once upon a time a man told a story about another man. The Hebrews unconsciously discovered and developed this great art. Their stories were always fashioned out of life for a definite purpose not to indulge their imagination, nor to entertain their hearers, but always with didactic aim?to teach a lesson of tolerance, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to encourage patriotism, to give higher conceptions of life. The Hebrew stories may be classified as follows: hero stories, stories of friendship, illustrative stories. The hero stories include: Abraham and Isaac, the Joseph stories, Jepthah's Daughter,. Gideon and the Three Hundred, David and Goliath. The friendship stories include: The story of Ruth, David, and Jonathan, Esther, Judith. The illustrative stories were used to illustrate a spiritual or moral truth. The parables and allegories being the most lofty in purpose seemed most fitted to the Hebrew mind. The allegory was most frequently used in the Old Testament: Israel and the Vine (Psalms 8); The Lion's Whelp (Ezekiel 19:2-9); The Boiling Caldron (Ezekiel 24:1-14); The Olive and the Branches (Romans 11: 16-24.) The parable was the most characteristic form of the teachings of Jesus, the most significant being: The Mustard Seed to illustrate The Growth of the Kingdom. The Corn and the Ear to illustrate The Principle of Development. The Hidden Treasure to illustrate Life's Highest Goal. The Virgin to illustrate Life's Tests. The Talents to illustrate Use or Lose God's Gifts. The Good Samaritan to illustrate The Value of Service. The Prodigal Son to illustrate Life's Values. Some literary scholars classify the "Book of Jonah" as an allegory and some as a parable. Whatever the classification we accept Charles Read's statement: "Jonah is the most beautiful story ever written in so small a compass." The Story of "Ruth" is consider- LESSON DEPARTMENT ed one of the best stories ever written. It is idyllic in tone. Goethe called it "the daintiest of love idylls." It is a plea for tolerance. Ezra and Nehemiah had been seeking to prevent the intermarriage of their people with the neighboring tribes. The author, unknown but a great humanist, wrote the story of a woman of Moab whose blood flowed in the veins of Israel's most famous king, David. The Love is that of a daughter-in-law and a mother-inlaw. The delicacy of the scene between Ruth and Boaz is the work of an artist refined in spirit. The passage "Intreat me not to leave thee if aught but death part thee and me" is immortal because of its perfection. The Book of Esther is a brilliant historical romance. Into the story is poured the passionate hatred of the Jew for his enemies and oppressors. It exalts racial intolerance; the tone of the book is patriotic. The characters are skillfully depicted. And the setting of the Oriental court with its splendor and intrigues is worldly. Esther, a Jewess, married to the king of Persia, saves her people from destruction by thwarting the plans of the wicked Haman. The Book of Jonah is a protest against religious intolerance. One writer has said: "In this book the religious spirit of the Old Testament reaches its purest and amplest expression." As anallegory it displays the narrowness of the Jews. Israel, like Jonah, thought that Jehovah was only the God of Palestine. Israel like Jonah, was swallowed up by the Babylonish captivity and there learned to sing songs of God. After their return from Exile they were repeatedly complaining to God for his patience to the Gentiles. The story aimed to teach the Jews the lesson so beautifully expressed in t he hymn: 757 "The love of God is broader than the measure of man's mind And the heart of the Eternal is most wonderfully kind. And we make his love too narrow by false limits of our own, And we magnify his strictness by a zeal he will not own." The life story of Joseph written when it was is the world's first biography. A marvel of literary artistry it combines a large cycle of stories into a masterpiece just as Tennyson did with the Arthurian legends in the "Idylls of the King." As we see the incidents in the life of Joseph, the many colored coat, the boyhood dreams, the jealous brethren, the slavery in Egypt, the confidence of Pharaoh, the temptations of Potiphar's wife, the famine administration, the reunion with his family; we have details so artistically bound together that they reveal not incidents alone but growth of character is traced, motives are revealed, conversations are recorded, and always an expected climax eagerly awaited. The story fabric of this Bible masterpiece saturated with the pride of many generations of the Hebrew race in the hands of an artist gives to the biography of Joseph an universal appeal. - The Books of the Prophets It has been said that the quality of a people can be meastted by the kind of men they honor. It is a fact that Greece honored poets, philosophers, sculptors, orators, and athletes; Rome gave her greatest honors to emperors, military leaders an d poets; while Israel revered most of all her prophets. Israel's prophets, the mouthpieces of God, explained and justified God to his people. Only with great brevity can we pause and comment upon the leading prophets 758 of Israel: Amos (750 B. C.,) the prophet of justice, in splendid expression issued to his erring people the message "God is not mocked, neither is he propitiated by feasts and offerings. Hosea (740 B. C.,) the prophet of pity, saw the loving heart of God waiting to forgive his prodigal people. Isaiah (737-701 B. C.,) the statesman prophet, for fifty years tried to keep his people's faith. His magnificent intellect, his abundant energy, and his splendid faith made him one of the great writers of the world: His best expression is in Chapters 1, 6, 11, of the book that bears his name. Micah, the Socialistic prophet, in a terriflc message denounces the oppressor. Jeremiah, a man of tender spirit, saw religion as an individual influence rather than a national product. The prophets of Israel gave to their people the understanding that it is man's responsibility to do the will of God. An acquaintance with the Hebrew prophets?their enduring hope and faith?enriches us. Let us listen to the words of Amos the herdsman of Tekoa as he preached in the streets of Bethel: "Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. For, lo, he that farmeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thoughts, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord, The God of hosts, is his name." New Testament and Christianity The New Testament has been called the Magna Charta of Christianity. Jesus, the center of interest of the New Testament, brings a new message, not for a nation but for mankind. The Gospels, a new type of literature, herald this new message RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sage not by narrative and not by argument, but by establishment of divine evidence, Jesus the Son of God. The New Testament historians follow the Hebraic tradition writing for a purpose. Their purpose being to promulgate a new religion, Christianity. The Book of Acts written by Luke, a Greek and a master of rhetoric, is a graphic account of the missionary activities of the early Christian Church. Jesus, the Christ The greatest narrative ever written is the life-story of "humanity's divinest figure," Jesus, by his loving disciples Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Jesus left no written record of his teachings. The evangelist Mark shortly before the death of Peter wrote a vigorous account of the activities of Jesus (65-70 A. D.) Matthew a few years later revised and refined Mark's record (75-80 A. D.) while Luke, the cultured Gentile friend of Paul, wrote the third account adding new material and writing more accurately. The writers were not literary artists, each gives a different point of view of their Master. The Book of Matthew deals with the fulfillment of prophecy; the Book of Mark with the miraculous power of Jesus: Luke with his humaneness; John with the significance of His words. "My words shall not pass away," said Jesus, the Master; ''Be ye perfect" are the words of Jesus, the Teacher; "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Light,' announces Jesus, God's immortal Son. Truly men have spoken of Jesus. "Never spake man like this man."" Many explanations have been offered by literary scholars for the "words" of Jesus. "Tn him all fullness dwelt?fullness of the prophetic spirit, fullness of wisdom, fullness of poetic utterance; LESSON DEPARTMENT supreme in spiritual glory, supreme in glory of speech" seems to be one of the best of the many estimates. Being a Hebrew, He used the mode of expression so effectively used by Hebrew poets, parallelism: "He that findeth his life shall lose it And he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Being a Hebrew and not a Greek, He made simple statements without argument. "In my Father's house are many mansions. I go to prepare a place for you." Being a teacher of men, He used simple terms; "your father," "lilies how they grow;" or parables about prodigal sons, sowers, and merchants; or proverbs as in the "Sermon on the Mount." While writing nothing himself the sayings of Jesus have entered the lives and speech of all men wherever Christianity has prevailed. The Letters of Paul Paul's great contribution to the world was the interpretation of Christian doctrine in the terms of the thought of his age so that it was acceptable to the keenest and best minds. This work wa s done by letters written to the early churches and to Christian missionaries. Paul of Tarsus, a Jew, educated to become a rabbi under the great teacher Gamaliel, knew both Hebrew and Greek thought. A Pharisee, a member of the Sanhedrin, Paul was intrusted with the task of uprooting Christianity. As a persecutor he took part in the stoning of Stephen. After his miraculous conversion to Christianity he directed the missionary activities of the early Church. As a theologian, Paul molded the thought of early Christianity. Religion to him meant Christ?a personal fellowship with 759 Him. His theology has been summarized in four words: Grace, Faith, Peace, Power. The source of Paul's greatness was his spirituality. "It is no longer I who live, Christ lives in me." The study of the letters of Paul is a life task. The volume of commentary on Paul is greater than on any other writer except Shakespeare. Of the letters "The Lyric of Love," Corinthians 13, "The Resurrection," Corinthians 15 are literary masterpieces; while the essence of Paul's sublime faith is expressed in his last words to Timothy, when feeble, old, and lonely in a Roman prison as he awaits martyrdom. "I have fought the good fight, I have finished the cause; I have kept the faith; henceforth, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness." Apocalyptical Writings. Just as the thought of one age differs from that of another so often does the form of expression. For about three hundred years?168 B. C. To 150 A. D., we find that apocalyptic writing was prevalent. These years were marked by change, suffering, and martyrdom. The Book of Daniel in the Old Testament and the Book of Revelation in the New Testament are the apocalyptic books. The Book of Daniel was given to the Jews during the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks. Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews dvring the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks. Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews in their loyalty to the faith of their fathers. It gave to the Jews assurance of immortality: "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firma- 760 ment; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever." During the period of the most extreme suffering of the early Chritians, the Book of Revelation was written, to encourage the members of the church to be faithful. Recording a vision of the solemn scenes and acts to take place in the fullness of time, we find the most beautiful expression in the Bible: "Be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee a crown of life.". Suggestions for Study. A. Materials: 1. The Story of the 'World's Literature?Macy. Chapter 4. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible ?Moulton.  . The English Bible As Literature?Dinsmore. 4. Creative Religious Literature ?Culler. B. Program: 1. Music Selections from the Psalms. 2. Discussion The Bible as Literature. A. The Narratives. B. The Prophetic Books. 3. Readings Selections from the follewing: a. The Old Testament Nar- - ratives., b. The New Testament Narratives. C. The Writing of the Prophets. C. Method: The purpose of this lesson is to bring a greater appreciation of the Bible through an understanding of its literary beauty. Social Service (Fourth Week in February) AFFECTION?-SEX AND EMOTIONAL MATURITY LESSON XIV In the reading material of this lesson is found the following sentence: "We have made little progress in setting up standards of emotional maturity." Such standards are not of human make. They are already provided in each individual and cannot be stopped. In earlier times it was thought a desirable life if the expression of emotions was all suppressed. Modern psychology has discovered the ill effects of such widespread inhibitions. Life in the face of present knowledge must be an emotional life. But emotions should be stimulated by desirable stimuli and be expressed in socially acceptable methods. To guide such a process requires thorough understanding of the appearance and expression of the important elements of emotional life. The aim of this lesson is to give the class members an introduction to this understanding and to stimulate further sympathetic study of the emotions and their relation to conduct. The subject canot be completely treated in such short space and time. Suggestions for Procedure: The topic is so big and the material is so rich for study that the best that can be done is to open up the field to the class from many approaches and let them feel its importance. This can best be done by LESSON DEPARTMENT means of topical reports or lectures. If the topical method is used the following outline is suggested. 1. Effect of a normal emotional life of parents and other adults in the home-??White House Conference 1930, p. 140 and topic 4 in the supplementary material. 2. Provide the opportunity.? Topic | in supplementary material. 3. Emotional elements of school organization and management.? White House Conference, 1930, p. 171. 4, Social Hygiene instruction in school and home.?White House Conference, 1930, p. 176. 5. Motion pictures and other commercialized amusements, and the emotional life of children?-White House Conference, 1930, pp. 255- 260 and topic 3 in the supplementary material. 6. The approach to the problem through mental hygiene??White House Conference, 1930, pp. 304- 308 and topic 5 in the supplementary material. 7. Social welfare and the maintenance of the homes.?White House Conference, 1930, pp. 322- 323. The reading guide should be studied carefully by each classmember as a background for hearing and discussing the reports. Reading Guide: Growth pp. 31- 34, The Material while brief expresses clearly the two fundamental ideas involved. 1. Sex interests should appear normally. 2. The expression of these should be guided and directed, not inhibited. While keeping in mind the first of these basic assumptions note what the pamphlet says about the following ideas: 761 The tendency toward specialization of longings for affection. Time or age for maturing of capabilities for reproduction. Time for reaching the ability to support self and children. Definition of "maturity." The problems involved in the second general idea stated above are discussed under the following topics. Make a note of what is said about each. 1. Postponement of mating. 2. Free contact with members of the opposite sex. 3. Dangers of delaying such contacts. 4, Over-idealized womanhood. 5. "Protecting oneself" from men. 6. The mother-sister analogy. 7. Coeducation. 8. Travel during adolescence. Problems 1 and 2 are to be answered from Part 2 of the supplementary reading and from experience. Problems 8 and 9 are discussed in the reading material outlined above: Problems 3, 4, and 5 call for a review of the lesson on Developing initiative and independence. Problem 7 calls for the experience of the class members. Problem 6 is answered in part 6 of the supplementary material. Supplementary Material: 1, Miss Caroline B. Zachry in a recent article in the Journal of the National Education Association, January, 1930, states that children pass through the following stages of emotional development: 1. Period of mother love based on physical care and comfort. Later this is extended to include the father and others. 2. Run-about period of selfishness and interest in I, me, mine. 762 3. Love of people most like himseli?same age and sex?authority shifts to the gang. 4. Close friendship for one or two people of the same sex and marked hero worship. 5. Interest in the opposite sex with a strong desire to be independent. Discussing the stages she says: "The social stages just described are the normal ones through which each child should have an opportunity to pass. The home and school need only provide the opportunity, the child will take care of the rest. Many serious mistakes are made by parents and teachers who do not understand these periods and try to superimpose on the child behavior that belongs at a different level. The child who is normally self-centered at an early period may have far too much attention paid to this condition and because of the satisfaction attained through the attention prolong the behavior. The gang stage causes great over-anxiety to adults. They despair of dirty hands, poor table manners, and discourteous behavior to children of the opposite sex, failing to realize that if they will bear with a minimum of manners for a few years the whole picture will change with the normal development of interest in the opposite sex. It is important to realize that the crush stage is normal though it must be handled very intelligently. Understanding parents and teachers will accept the development of interest in the opposite sex calmly and without comment, realizing that their development will do much to reassure the young person at a very emotional period that is all too often, through the misunderstanding of adults, an anxious period." 2. By what age would you expect the average child to have outgrown RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE telling "tall tales" and stories which he half imagines to be true? In answer to these questions Thom says: (Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child). "In dealing with fabrications that have no basis in fact or that serve no apparent, useful purpose?that is, the so-called products of day dreaming?it is neither necessary nor desirable to make the child admit the lack of reality in his dreams. It is much better simply to impress him with the fact that you, as an adult, are taking it for granted that he is making up an interesting story which amuses you as any story might and that the possibility of accepting it as truth has never occurred to you. There is less danger in encouraging these make-believe stories in children, if they are given to understand that you accept them as such, than there is in trying to inhibit them by constantly denying their existence or by punishing the narration? Such punishment is apt to increase the romance the child derives from his stories, fill him with selfpity, make him introspective, and drive him further away from reality." p. 251. The exaggerations of adolescence will be temporary. Self-convicting testimony and over-severe punishments lead to wilful lying. The compensating absences of incentives and opportunities for falsehoods will give a chance for positive truthtelling habits to be built up. 3. Mary Lue Chochian in an article on Movies and Life in Child Welfare?April, 1932, pp. 455-459, discusses the vivid and direct appeal of the movies in portraying crime, in giving a strong emphasis to sex stimulations, the lure of happy endings based on physical attractiveness and clothes, and the fearful effect of the horror pictures recently portrayed LESSON DEPARTMENT?Based on Clinical experiences the author gives two practical suggestions: A. "TI have repeated proof that children who are still in the formative stage are satisfied with the better pictures." Parents "can start with their own child. They can carefully select the pictures he sees and try to supply other types of recreation so that he will not have to go to the movies for all his thrills and adventures." B. "We shall fail if we take the pose of self-righteous reformers and rant and rail in excited fashion. If fathers and mothers would calmly and thoughtfully make their opinions of pictures felt through patronage or lack of patronage in the theater, the result would be far reaching in its effects." 4. Groves (The Child from Six to Ten) says: "The child needs above all things to be happy. He craves affection and stability. No amount of material luxury can make up to him for lack of affection. Affection must not be spasmodic. A moderate love that flows gently on, uninterrupted by outbursts of emotion, is surely best for the child." p. 142. 5. The dangers to mental health of continued inhibitions of expression of such basic emotions as fear, anger, and love are emphasized in modern ? psychology. Yet it is necessary that such uncontrolled expressions be inhibited and redirected. Parents need to be conscious of the methods of control and redirection of emotional expression. On this point Blanchard (The Child and Society, pp. 26-27) says: "The inhibition of the natural emotional responses from fear of conseqtiences or other motives growing out of the social experiences of the child, is called repression in 763 psychoanalytic terminology. Many forces unite to act in the repression of the different emotional responses. Fear must be controlled and concealed because one is ashamed to appear cowardly before one's comPpanions. Outbursts of anger must be conquered in order to escape the disapproval of the group and to retain friendships. The social demands for the repression of the love responses, especially at a crude sex level, are particularly powerful. But repressed emotions produce in the organism a state of tension because of their need for some motor outlet. Other activities are therefore, substituted for those which are socially unacceptable. These may be of motor or verbalmotor nature; the latter provides for substitute expressions in a great many instances. The boy who cannot hope to whip a playmate much larger and stronger than himself, however angry he may be, finds it advisable to control his anger. Then he may find relief from the pent-up emotion by wreaking it upon an innocent victim in the person of a smaller child or an animal, or he may talk of what he would like to do to his enemy or indulge in vivid day dreams of revenge. The youth who cannot follow his love impulses to caress the girl who stimuates him to desire this expression, can send her candy or flowers, or write a love sonnet to her charms. The tendency of the emotions to cause some kind of activity has been described under the term of sublimation by the psychoanalysts. It is important for the proper socialization of the child that he learn to repress many emotional responses which, in their natural manifestations, would be ill-adapted to life in the group. It is equally important that desirable sublimations, or substitute expressions, be provide 764 ed for the emotions which are thus inhibited. Without these sublimations, the emotional tension is likely to become too great to be endured without some sacrifice of physical or mental health. To some extent, the type of sublimated responses will be determined by the inherited traits of the individual, but the social and environmental opportunities are a live factor in this determination." 27-28. 6. Why are not young children grateful for all the sacrifices their parents make?; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The answer is two fold. 1. The children have become habituated to parental devotion, have received care constantly and have not been made to feel that the parents were sacrificing; it has seemed the customary thing. 2. As the spirit of independence has developed the parental help has been soomewhat resented instead of welcomed. The parent's satisfaction in doing has been met by disapointment in the child in his effort to do for himself.