[Is€." She]

Is€." She 1 "Janice has 4
New green chiffon and Amy, her J; ead Soaring, her limbs light and = e. Pink, "S pa? And warm. It was true, Atdman said mine could be White." Janie Cut the Téad in thick slices as she spoke, school a w eK or go later, it "Why, at's fine," Mrs. Carlson 'vas almost dark, 'ler mother "ee said, her tired face beaming. 'TI In the lean-to kitchen, Cooking Supmake one that will do fo; gradua Per, her brothers and sisters Playing tion, too." In the front yatd. "Yo, failed Mrs ae atsh again" ning dress, Jt can be Cut low and have gq full, swish skirt 'T told Mrs, Marsh ] Couldn't It has to be a take care of her childre Was r | yTs.
Carlson stooped to o €n the about." Janie's voice even door, "Yo, II just have to Was toneless as she threw her books make one dress do for both." on the table and washed her hands anie was silent. She knew Ma at the kitchen sink, She ad re Would get her the dress if she could Catsed for ty, hours and spent anShe picked UP her American histo other hour w th Miss Ardman The book and balanced jt on her head itchen seemed shabbier, more Ik OPpeless turn, "why did you id, stuf. Ear Ver, watched slight Ng some woo Into the stove anger rise in her mother's face and "T can't rehearse al] afternoon and subside.
Tend kids, too," Janie Started to Say, ul she che 36 you. I liked him for some of the things you like in Don."
Janie was shocked into sudden understanding. "You mean that he was like Don, good fun at a dance or at a party?" "He was, but he was more, too. He was a good boy."
Janice could feel her mother's eyes on her. "He was always a good worker," Mrs.
Carlson emphasized. "And he didn't have the bad habits Don has. I can tell you now," she ended, looking searchingly at Janie, "I've had a lot more out of life than you') ever get if you marry Don Betger." "Oh, I'm not going to marry Don," Janie retorted lightly as she resumed her posture walking. But she felt cold inside.
When she contemplated marriage, it was to have far more than she saw at home. And I'm going to have more, she promised herself harshly. She heard the rattle of her father's car outside and put down the book. No matter what, she decided, Ill have the right dress for the play. 'THE rehearsal period was nearly over; still Janie had not mentioned the dress again to her mother. One late afternoon she lagged behind the others, waiting for Miss Ardman, humiliation and _resentment within her for what had just happened. It began in the love scene with John Rons. Miss Ardman told him to kiss Marjorie now and hereafter in rehearsal. "Oh, gee, Miss Ardman, do I have to do it every time?"
John had pleaded, distaste in his voice. "If youll let me off in rehearsals, I'll do it big the night of the play. I promise I will." The others had laughed cruelly  and John had retreated, leaving Janie alone on the stage in her humiliation. It took self-control to keep Janie in the auditorium.
Only the thought of more laughter when ~ she walked out had held her. "There's no need for further private instructions, as I've told you before, Janie," Miss Ardman said, a slight note of exasperation in her voice. "You've shown marvelous improvement. 'The twang is all but gone.
Just keep up the work at home," she ended kindly.
Janie knew the teacher was tired, dead tired. She wished there was no need to bother her. "I'll keep trying, right up to the last," she promised meekly. "But can I— may I walk home with you?" She knew her face was red. "Of course," Miss Ardman_ treplied. "Just hold these while I gather my papers to be graded." She placed her books in Janie's hands.
Outside it was early twilight. The trees with their swollen buds were sweet with the promise of spring. The mountains towered dark and quiet beyond the town.
Janie and the teacher walked in _ silence, breathing the soft air. "All you need,' Miss Ardman said suddenly, "is to have a little more confidence, a little more spontaneity." Janie's smile was forced. "All I need is to change everything, I guess." "You're feeling sorry for yourself!" Miss Ardman said it sharply. "You saw John this afternoon." Janie's voice was bitter and it came from deep inside her. "John Rons is a conceited young THE DRESS?? Man." Miss Ardman spoke too quickly. "Don't worry about it." "Oh, I've got along without any special attention from him."
Janie tried to give her words a light touch. "T can worry along. But," she said with deep conviction, "he wouldn't hate me that night if I had a pretty dress to wear." She felt as if a ton had dropped from her. It was good to have Miss Ardman know. Miss Ardman stopped so suddenly that she almost stumbled into a pool of still brown water. "You're going to be able to get the dress, aren't you Janie?" Her voice was rising. "I told you about it the first day and you promised." "Oh, Ma will make me a dress all right, but Til still be Janie Carlson and the others will be the characters in the play." "I let you into this,' Miss Ardman deliberated, looking ahead, "Tl have to see you through." Hot tears stung Janie's cheeks.
They walked together to the big red brick house where Miss Ardman boarded and into her room. It was, Janie thought, a lovely room, with its white ruffled curtains and matching spread.
There was a desk with a shelf of books above it. Miss Ardman silently placed her books on the desk and opened the closet door.
Slowly she removed a large zippered bag and opened the zipper -and removed a dress from inside. ANIE'S mouth snapped open again. In all her dreams she had never thought of such a dress. It was made of yards and yards of frosty white organdy embroidered in red dots the color of a cluster of shining cherries caught in the red velvet of the tiny waist band. The 37 bodice was close fitting and cut from the shoulders. And there was a filmy plaited bertha to frame the face. Out of the bottom of the bag, Miss Ardman extracted a pair of red satin pumps. For all her naivete, Janie knew this dress would make the others look commonplace. She sat on the floor, tears welling to her eyes. Her face was luminous with rapture as she asked, "I may wear it?" Miss Ardman held the dress out, admiring its swirling folds. "I suppose I'm a fool to let you wear it," she said more to herself than to Janie. Her slender fingers carressed the folds of the skirt. "It's a special dress. I've never worn it.
Mother sent it to me because all through college I didn't have a really pretty dress.
Lack of money and lack of materials, but now the beautiful materials are back. I was saving it for the May Ball."
Janie knew what she meant. The May Ball was the biggest dance of the year in Ronsville. "My fiance, he was a naval officer and now he is a medical student in his last year at the University, is coming," Miss Ardman said in a sudden burst of confidence. "I wanted him to see me in it first.
Janie nodded her head solemnly. She also knew that she was the first student to know about the fiance. Miss Ardman smiled down at her serious face. "It will be your Cinderella dress, but midnight will come for you when the curtain falls. Don't forget it!" She placed the dress reverently back into the zippered bag.
Janie got to her feet, her face rapt and serious. "I promise," she said. (To be concluded)