[Our house than ee acn ee No Orgies of Cooking, ONnclaves as Christmas) A appy guests, no §4Y prepara. Mas!" tions at all: ul, ina w Y, I was hapPY because for the first time; ife, J Was thi € ten-year-olq girl' Of the oth Ww T hunts work." "A ve mer bedtime Story,"]

Our house than ee acn ee No Orgies of Cooking, ONnclaves as Christmas) A appy guests, no §4Y prepara. Mas!" tions at all: ul, ina w Y, I was hapPY because for the first time; ife, J Was thi € ten-year-olq girl' Of the oth Ww T hunts work." "A ve mer bedtime Story," 1 My thoughts Maitland obsese), "Do a Over old Mr You've spoiled dusk didn't n't you see dinner?" n little figure ing out of the alley, Mother's 0 everyone's horror her Own, [ji lar inda Shouted "M. Mother's old €nough to which World's ful] of know the such happy Situa tions THE HURRAH'S NEST and they're not all in Europe!"
Then she burst into tears and dashed blindly from the room. You can imagine the tension there was when I didn't even ask Dad about the tree.
Ever since Linda was big enough to sit in the car seat beside him, Dad has made a ceremony of taking us children to the forest for the Christmas tree. It was the biggest thrill of all, I think.
Last year Linda had a date and only Maitland and I went with Dad, but it was still fun. Well, it's a sign of retarded mentality to hang onto childish practices, so I tried not to care when Dad didn't mention the tree this year. We really didn't need it for our grown-up gifts. HE day before Christmas was cold and blowy and snowy, ideal weather if one had the Christmas spirit, but pretty depressing under the circumstances. Well, it couldn't help but cheer us up a little when Aunt Mary arrived. I wondered how I could sneak out the car to meet her, and if she'd ride with me when I did. Aunt Mary no one under thirty should drive a car, and a woman never! It would never occur to her to take a taxi, however, so I had to try. But when I slipped out to the garage, there was Dad, just driving out. He looked startled and muttered that he had an errand downtown. "May I go, Dad, I have one, too?" I could see I wasn't welcome, but climbed in anyway. 'This was chummy to what it would be when he found what my errand was.
Strangely enough, he drove straight to the bus station and seemed not at all astonished when Aunt Mary, tiny and frail, waved gaily from the thinks 17 platform. Dad picked her up in a big bear hug as he always does, and carried her across the snow to the car. Aunt Mary kissed me warmly, but I thought she gave me an odd glance as we drove off.
There was no chance for explanations between Dad and me, and I was a little disappointed _ that, though Mother was delighted to see Aunt Mary, she didn't look surprised enough. Of course she couldn't let Aunt Mary see she was not expected. It began to seem a little more festive, with the two of them chattering in the kitchen while Mother prepared the Christmas Eve supper. | "Tell me all about everybody!" I heard her say. Aunt Mary retorted, "Oh, I've got a lot of news, but first you tell me why I got three tickets? You couldn't have been that anxious to see me!"
Mother didn't have to answer, for at that moment, Dad, who had slipped away again, threw open the front door, and with a lot of laughter and shouting and feet stamping, Sally and her four rowdy youngsters rushed in. If Mother was surprised, they didn't know it, for her welcome was as heart-warming as ever. I took the dishes off again, and put another leaf in the dining table, and Mother beat up another batch of biscuits and did some juggling with cans and jars. Meanwhile Dad winked at Maitland and they went out and returned, presently, with the biggest and prettiest tree we had ever had. Sometime, after Dad had sent for Sally, he and Maitland had got that tree. I felt a small pang that I had been left out, then remembered RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_JaNUARy 1949 about being retar ed, and put it out Mustn't tel] ay Of my mind. Now it ven smelled _ these People they weren't expected, Br like Christing Mas! "We']] all turn jp | It after Supper," S if they WEIe Visitin ad said, Jovially, M € were finally sit in Moment oy two T.
Watson as if. He sa; ' half-heartedly, he'd take his invyi om inda, who had » NOW said Pent her entire Christmas fund on "There's a Ode] T Just bursting h | n With kids." Th d) was deter Said, stil] more loudly, "Why, it's - u stopping here!" $4 sheet, «py Me up with the id ¢ they come the chj © said rapid ind, and € we Teally felt flashy, t know" my breath. "Te Was never 4 dull mo She just Mr, Watson PlOved to he THE HURRAH'S NEST monica virtuoso and just happened to have one in his pocket. I never knew before that Sally was a mimic and could take off all the prominent radio performers, nor that Mother and Dad had sung duets when they were young until Aunt Mary insisted they do it again. Good, too.
Linda and I played the two-handed pieces we thought we had outgrown, and Maitland recited, "Woodman, Spare That Tree!" We even rolled back the rugs and danced on Mother's highly polished floor. But the star performer was Rumplestiltskin. He told the most fascinating stories of Christmases in Denmark and his early life there and his travels and experiences since.