[Joanna saw how bleak his brown eyes looked without the laughter that always lived in them. Page 23]

Joanna saw how bleak his brown eyes looked without the laughter that always lived in them.  24 " 
Sally, four, and Michael, two, took hugs and kisses as a matter of course, more interested in the wedges of cake in their grimy hands.
They waved cheerfully to the departing guests. 'They turned to their mother.
Sally held up her hand. "Bite?" Obediently, Joanna took a bite, and could not swallow it. Her throat was dry and swollen, and fear was a lump she could not dislodge. The hose was trickling a thin stream on the small, discouraged lawn.
Joanna knelt and lifted it and drank. She rose and dusted off the hem of her one good dress, navy blue crepe, with a white lace jabot. She went slowly down the cracked cement walk to the street. The street was not paved, only graveled. Now the gravel was almost hidden under the golden drift of cottonwood leaves from the trees that lined the street. The houses on either side were shabby and tumbled, red brick, most of them, with porches long in need of paint and with sagging, broken steps.
Joanna turned and looked at her own house. It was red brick, like the others. The door, behind the battered screen, was flanked by two square windows. 'The window on the right was cracked, brown sticking paper following its course. She went up the path, up the stairs, into the house. She looked around the little sitting room, with its coal heater in the corner, the leatherette sofa along one wall, the chair that matched it standing against the opposite wall. Her treadle sewing machine stood under the starched lace of the curtains, mending spilled out of the reed basket. She looked at the threadbare rug, and the straight back chairs as if she were taking inventory. 'There were two pictures on the stained brown walls. One was "The Angelus." She had cut it out of a magazine and put it in an old frame. The other was also a magazine print, "Sunflowers" by Van Gogh.
Joanna stared at it, dazedly, remembering how she had atways loved, the fierce, wild beauty of the sunflowers. She had imagined the mad artist plunging them violently into the squat vase.
Today they seemed garish. She went past the picture into the kitchen. The table was loaded with cakes and pies and covered dishes from the hands of kind neighbors. The kitchen range sent out a _ cheery warmth. She opened the lid and poured more coal from the bucket that stood on a newspaper. She looked at the linoleum, no one but herself knew that under the gay rag rugs the pattern was worn through to the boards. The kitchen chairs stood neatly against the green painted walls, Sally's battered doll. On one of the gingham cushions.
Joanna straightened the gaily embroidered dish towels on their rack. She went swiftly through the children's bedroom. 'There were only the two beds, covered with the quilts she had made from scraps her mother had sent her. She opened the door to the bathroom that would be icy cold all winter and closed it again. She went to the bedroom she had shared _ with David. HE touched the wooden footboard, her hands dragging. She smoothed the crocheted spread. She sat for a moment in the small rock- : Makes your mouth so sweet to look Upon?