[Artist by Gene Romolo]

artistic poem « Our Heritage" hich won first prj € ln the 42
Eliza R Ow Po Contest. TS. Roberts has many other Poet Prizes an her front Pl€ces and of €T poems in he Relief Society Magazine ave bee recognized ag Cutstanding Contributions to the literature of the atter-day § ts, Mrs. R berts Summarizes her life thus briefly: « om on a large ranch In a tiny house on stilts, born Nature and have loved jt ever since, | never eel more at home han Where Weeds grow along a fence, and fruit lines the Cellar she €s, and Pples, Carrots, and Potatoes are Piled in a Pit. I love moun- 41s near and far. Attended the University of Utah and have f€n a schoo]. €acher. My hobbies are sewj g, Cooking, Music, and Writing. I love Poet and al] forms li ature for their inward and Outward Contours of beauty, and have taught the literature lessons in Relief Society for any years, J have © daughters whom mention (not by nam ) in My book of Poems, 'Blue TTOWS,' as yet 'npublished." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS MIRANDA SNOW WALTON Second Prize Poem Another lary Miranda Snow Walton Within the gates of Bethlehem Another Mary stands; Her suffering children, scourged and shamed, Cry out from alien lands. Fain would she gather them again To David's white-walled spires, But heathen hordes have overrun The city of their sires. Pagan kings have mocked the throne, Their evil flag unfurled, While the children. Of the covenant Are outcasts of the world. Within bereaved Jerusalem Another Mary knows The two-fold pain of motherhood— Her own, her children's woes. She gave them life, to be destroyed, Despised, reviled, and slain; It is a bitter thing to birth A child foredoomed to pain. 

10  -The voice of ancient prophecy Is filled in her despair: "Woe be to those in latter days Who would a man child bear."
Upon the hills of Calvary Another Mary kneels, She sees white crosses, row on row; Each one ason! Man feels The agony of death but once; She pays the double price, For man's intolerance to man Has crucified her twice. Miranda Snow Walton was born in the Bear River country of Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes.
Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some thirty poetry magazines, and in many newspapers and anthologies, including Utah Sings. Mrs.
Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens) and two sons, Jack and Claude Walton, who were of the fourth generation of one line and the fifth of another, to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs. Walton, now a resident of Salt Lake City, visits the Bear River country frequently and is interested in writing about this picturesque region. The Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure Mrs. Walton's poem "Centennial Conversation" which was awarded the third prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946 and which was published in the Magazine in January 1947.
Also in 1947 a poem of Mrs. Walton's received third honorable mention in the contest of the Poetry Society of Colorado. Alice M. Burnett, Lima, Ohio, was awarded first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1929 for her poem "My Neighbor." At that time Mrs.
Burnett was Miss Walker and she lived in Redmesa, Colorado, where she was very active in Church work and held many executive positions in the auxiliary organizations. Her poems have appeared for many years in the L. D. S.
Church magazines, in poetry publications, and in anthologies. In commenting upon herself and her family, Mrs.
Burnett writes: "My literary career began in Colorado before I was of school age, and while still in my teens I was selling both poetry and prose.
Before coming to Ohio I was active in Church work and held many stake and ward offices.
Recently a small branch has been organized here in Lima and my little granddaughter was the first child ever to be named and blessed under the Priesthood authority in this city. I have two sons living in Colorado, a daughter in Hawaii, and three grandchildren." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS ALICE M. BURNETT Third Prize Poem Infant Daughter of a Alice M. Burnett If only they had waked me from that deep And dreamless sleep, And brought my baby daughter to my side, If only I had held her once before she died, And felt her precious head So warm, and gently pressed Against my breast. But no, they made me Sleep, And so I did not know Until she had been buried deep Beneath the snow.