[Vol36 | January 1949 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Lesson | Title: 56 Literature: Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years | Author: Elder Howard R. Driggs]
JLiterature — Literature  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
Literature  of  the  Gospel  Restoration 
Lesson  7— Literary  Sidelights  of  the  Founding  Years 
Elder  Howard  R.  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  April  19,  1949 
lyilNUTES  of  meetings,  diaries, 
letters,  biographical  sketches, 
all  afford  interesting  materials  to 
bring  one  nearer  to  the  developing 
years  of  our  Church.  Often  these 
more  or  less  informal  writings  be- 
come literature  in  an  artistic  sense. 
This  when  the  writer,  faithful  to  the 
facts,  records  significant  sayings,  im- 
portant incidents,  or  gives  descrip- 
tive lines  to  help  humanize  the  story. 
From  such  well-written  accounts, 
historians,  authors,  or  others  may 
get  a  truer  picture  of  the  ever-chang- 
ing events  and  the  characters  who 
play  important  roles  in  the  drama. 
Latter-day  Saints,  under  divine  di- 
rection, have  been,  on  the  whole, 
conscientious  record  keepers.  Not 
only  have  the  vital  facts  connected 
with  the  growth  of  the  Church  and 
its  various  auxiliaries  been  quite 
faithfully  recorded,  but  missionaries 
have  consistently  kept  their  diaries. 
Further,  members  have  been  encour- 
aged to  keep  their  own  personal 
journals.  As  a  result,  the  Histor- 
ian's office  of  our  Church  has  be- 
come a  treasure-trove  of  vital  value 
for  seekers  after  truth. 
Letters,  saved  by  appreciative 
ones,  are  also  a  rich  source  of  what 
may  be  called  living  literature.  Be- 
fore the  telegraph,  telephone,  and 
radio,  the  main  means  of  communi- 
cation was  through  correspondence. 
Often  the  gospel  was  ''preached" 
by  letters  to  relatives  and  dear 
friends,  the  saints  enjoying  its  bless- 
ings were  ever  anxious  that  their 
loved  ones  might  * 'embrace  the  New 
Covenant,"  as  the  Prophet  Joseph 
expresses  it  in  a  letter  to  his  Uncle 
Silas: 
Kirtland  Mills,  Ohio, 
September  26,  1833 
Respected  Uncle  Silas: 
It  is  with  feelings  of  deep  interest  for 
the  welfare  of  mankind  which  fill  my  mind 
on  the  reflection  that  all  were  formed  by 
the  hand  of  Him  who  will  call  the  same 
to  give  an  impartial  account  of  all  their 
works  .  .  .  that  I  take  up  my  pen  and  seat 
myself  in  an  attitude  to  address  a  few, 
though  imperfect,  lines  to  you  for  your 
perusal  .... 
Seeing  that  the  Lord  has  never  given 
the  world  to  understand,  by  anything  here- 
tofore revealed,  that  he  had  ceased  for- 
ever to  speak  to  his  creatures,  when  sought 
unto  in  a  proper  manner,  why  should  it 
be  thought  a  thing  incredible  that  he 
should  be  pleased  to  speak  again  in  these 
last  days  for  their  salvation?  .... 
I  may  believe  that  Enoch  walked  with 
God,  and  by  faith  was  translated.  I  may  be- 
lieve that  Noah  was  a  perfect  man  in  his 
generation,  and  also  walked  with  God. 
I  may  believe  that  Abraham  communed 
with  God,  and  conversed  with  angels,  I 
may  believe  that  Isaac  obtained  a  renewal 
of  the  covenant  made  to  Abraham  by  the 
direct  voice  of  the  Lord.  I  may  believe 
that  Jacob  conversed  with  holy  angels,  and 
heard  the  word  of  his  Maker,  that  he 
wrestled  with  the  angel  until  he  prevailed, 
and  obtained  a  blessing  ....  But  will  all 
this  purchase  an  assurance  for  me,  and 
waft  me  to   the  regions   of   eternal   day,

58 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1949 
with  my  garments  spotless,  pure,  and  white? 
Or,  must  I  not  rather  obtain  for  myself, 
by  my  own  faith  and  diligence  in  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  an  as- 
surance of  salvation  for  myself?  And  have 
I  not  an  equal  privilege  with  the  ancient 
saints?  And  will  not  the  Lord  hear  my 
prayers,  and  listen  to  my  cries  as  soon  as 
he  ever  did  theirs,  if  I  come  to  him  in  the 
manner  they  did?  Or,  is  he  a  respecter 
of  persons? 
I  must  now  close  this  subject  for  the 
want  of  time  ....  We  would  be  pleased 
to  see  you  in  Kirtland;  and  more  pleased 
to  have  you  embrace  the  New  Covenant. 
I  remain,  yours  affectionately, 
Joseph  Smith,  Jun. 
{History  Of  Joseph  Smith  By  His  Mother 
Lucy  Mack  Smith,  chap.  44,  pp.  232-237). 
Some  of  our  pioneers  cultivated 
the  art  of  letter  writing  to  a  high 
degree  of  excellence.  Happily,  they 
also  took  pride  in  their  penmanship, 
and  the  paper  they  used  was  gen- 
erally of  lasting  quality.  Many  a  let- 
ter, or  a  packet  of  them,  has  been 
the  source  of  invaluable  help  to  his- 
torians and  to  literary  writers. 
Through  these  various  means  of 
preserving  the  past  in  its  verities, 
one  may  more  truly  relive  stirring 
scenes  in  the  story  of  our  Church. 
We  have  already  done  so  in  our  les- 
sons on  the  beginnings  of  the  divine 
work.  Let  us  carry  forward  now  by 
getting  closer  to  what  may  be  called 
the  Ohio-Missouri  period. 
A  time  of  intense  activity— of 
stress  and  distress,  it  was,  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 
First  of  all  there  was  the  double 
transplanting  of  the  new  Church- 
one  part  to  Kirtland,  Ohio;  the  other 
to  Independence,  Missouri.  .  This 
was  no  light  task,  as  we  are  shown 
vividly  through  the  story  Lucy 
Smith,  mother  of  the  Prophet,  has 
left  for  us.  While  the  menfolk  of 
the  family  had  gone  ahead  overland 
to  prepare  the  way,  she  was  entrust- 
ed with  a  major  responsibihty  of 
bringing  mothers  and  children  by 
way  of  the  Erie  Canal,  by  boat  over 
Lake  Erie,  to  Ohio.  Her  fervor  for 
the  restored  gospel,  her  undaunted 
spirit  and  courage  to  meet  emergen- 
cies, her  leadership  where  men  failed 
—all  vibrate  through  her  sincere 
story- and  impress  us  with  those 
same  qualities  possessed  by  her 
eminent  son. 
A  reading  of  chapter  38  of  the  lit- 
tie  volume  History  Oi  Joseph  Smith 
By  His  Mother  Lucy  Mack  Smith 
will  serve  to  help  make  the  story, 
and  the  character  of  Mother  Smith 
live  again. 
Outstanding  among  the  newly 
made  converts  in  this  Ohio  center 
was  Sidney  Rigdon.  Through  the 
years  this  man  was  to  perform  a  help- 
ful part  in  forwarding,  under  the 
leadership  of  the  Prophet,  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  Indeed  so  close  was 
their  relationship  during  the  develop- 
ing days  of  the  Church,  that  critics 
began  to  link  Rigdon's  name  with 
the  creating  of  the  Book  oi  Mormon. 
John,  a  son  of  Sidney  Rigdon,  ran 
into  this  story  when  he  was  out  West 
in  1863.  This  tale  disturbed  the  son 
so  much  that  he  determined  to  learn 
from  his  father  the  truth;  so  he  re- 
turned to  his  old  home,  and  happily 
found  both  of  his  parents  still  hale 
and  clear  of  mind. 
"You  have  been  charged,"  said  the  earn- 
est son  to  his  aged  father,  "with  writing 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  giving  it  to  Jo- 
seph Smith  to  introduce  to  the  world.  You 
have  always  told  me  the  story  that  you 
never  saw  the  book  until  it  was  presented 
to  you  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  Oliver  Cowd- 
ery;  and  all  you  ever  knew  of  the  origin 
of  that  book  was  what  they  told  you,  and 
what  Joseph  Smith  and  the  witnesses  who 
claimed  to  have  seen  the  plates  told  you.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
59 
Is  this  true?  If  so,  all  right;  if  it  is  not, 
you  owe  it  to  me  and  to  your  family  to 
tell  it.  You  are  an  old  man  and  you  will 
soon  pass  away,  and  I  wish  to  know  if 
Joseph  Smith,  in  your  intimacy  with  him 
for  fourteen  years,  has  not  said  something 
to  you  that  led  you  to  believe  he  obtained 
the  book  in  some  other  way  than  what  he 
had  told  you.  Give  me  all  that  you  know 
about  it,  that  I  may  know  the  truth." 
My  father,  after  I  had  finished  saying 
what  I  have  repeated  above,  looked  at  me 
for  a  moment,  raised  his  hand  above  his 
head,  and  slowly  said,  with  tears  glistening 
in  his  eyes:  "My  son,  I  can  swear  before 
high  heaven  that  what  I  have  told  you 
about  the  origin  of  that  book  is  true.  Your 
mother  and  sister,  Mrs.  Athalia  Robinson, 
were  present  when  that  book  was  handed 
to  me  in  Mentor,  Ohio,  and  all  I  ever  knew 
about  the  origin  of  that  book  was  what 
Parley  P.  Pratt,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Joseph 
Smith,  and  the  witnesses  who  claimed  they 
saw  the  plates  have  told  me,  and  in  all  of 
my  intimacy  with  Joseph  Smith  he  never 
told  me  but  one  story,  and  that  was  that 
he  had  found  it  engraved  upon  gold  plates 
in  a  hill  near  Palmyra,  and  that  an  angel 
had  appeared  to  him  and  directed  him 
where  to  find  it;  and  I  have  never,  to  you 
or  any  one  else,  told  but  the  one  story, 
and  that  I  now  repeat  to  you."  I  believed 
him,  and  now  believe  him.  He  also  said 
that  Mormonism  was  true;  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet,  and  that  the  world 
would  find  it  out  some  day. 
Out  of  the  persecutions  of  this 
period,  Amanda  Smith  gives  the 
principal  thread  of  the  Haun's  Mill 
Massacre.  Among  other  things  she 
relates : 
In  our  utter  desolation,  what  could  we 
women  do  but  pray?  Prayer  was  our  only 
source  of  comfort;  our  Heavenly  Father 
our  only  helper.  None  but  he  could  save 
and  deliver  us  . .  .  Our  prayers  were  hushed 
in  terror.  We  dared  not  let  our  voices  be 
heard  in  the  house  in  supplication.  I 
could  pray  in  my  bed  or  in  silence,  but  I 
could  not  live  thus  long.  This  godless 
silence  was  more  intolerable  than  had  been 
that  night  of  the  massacre. 
I  could  bear  it  no  longer.     I  pined  to 
hear  once  more  my  own  voice  in  petition 
to  my  Heavenly  Father. 
I  stole  down  into  a  com  field,  and 
crawled  into  a  "stout  of  com."  It  was  as 
the  temple  of  the  Lord  to  me  at  that  mo- 
ment.   I  prayed  aloud  and  most  fervently. 
When  I  emerged  from  the  com  a  voice 
spoke  to  me.  It  was  a  voice  as  plain  as  I 
ever  heard  one.  It  was  no  silent,  strong 
impression  of  the  spirit,  but  a  voice,  re- 
peating a  verse  of  the  saint's  hymn: 
That  soul  who  on  Jesus  hath  leaned  for 
repose, 
I  cannot,  I  will  not  desert  to  its  foes; 
That  soul,  though  all  hell  should  endeavor 
to  shake, 
I'll  never,  no  never,  no  never  forsakel 
From  that  moment  I  had  no  more  fear. 
I  felt  that  nothing  could  hurt  me.  {The 
Women  of  MoTmondom,  chap.  XV,  pp. 
129,  130). 
Dramatic  moments  connected 
with  the  testing,  tragic  years  of  the 
Ohio-Missouri  period  might  be  mul- 
tiplied. One  such  stirring  event  is 
the  escape  from  a  Missouri  jail,  told 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt  in  his  Autohiog- 
laphy: 
Our  friends  who  had  stood  waiting  in 
the  thicket,  had  watched  the  last  rays  of 
the  sun  as  they  faded  away,  and  had  ob- 
served the  quiet  stillness  of  the  evening  as 
it  began  to  steal  over  the  distant  village 
where  we  were  confined,  and  had  listened 
with  almost  breathless  anxiety  for  the  first 
sound  which  was  to  set  all  things  in  com- 
motion, and  which  would  say  to  them  in 
language  not  to  be  misunderstood,  that 
the  struggle  had  commenced.  For  some 
moments  after  the  last  golden  beam  had 
disappeared  they  listened  in  vain.  The  oc- 
casional lowing  of  a  cow  as  she  came  home 
from  the  woodland  pasture,  impatient  for 
her  calf  and  the  milkmaid  to  ease  her  of 
her  rich  burthen;  the  mingled  sound  of  hu- 
man voices  in  the  distance  in  common 
conversation,  the  merry  laugh  of  the 
young  beaux  and  their  sweethearts,  the 
quiet  song  of  the  whippoorwill,  mingled 
with  the  merry  notes  of  the  violin,  the 
thrill  of  the  bugle,  or  the  soft  and  plain- 
tive notes  of  the  flute,  stole  upon  the  si-