[Vol36 | January 1949 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: 30 How to Make a Kapok Quilt | Author: Ilean H. Poulson]
How  to  Make  a  Kapok  Quilt 
JJean  H.  Poulson 
ONE  of  the  most  attractive 
and  useful  gifts  I  have  ever 
received  was  a  kapok-filled 
baby  quilt.  It  was  given  to  me  by 
my  husband's  mother  when  our 
first  baby  arrived  nearly  six  years 
ago.  Since  then  we  have  made  three 
additional  quilts  of  this  type.  They 
are  favorites  with  our  children  be- 
cause they  combine  attractiveness 
with  unusual  softness,  warmth,  and 
little  weight. 
Because  of  the  scarcity  of  kapok 
during  the  war  years  we  were  able 
to  made  only  small  quilts.  Adults 
who  have  used  quilts  filled  with 
kapok  claim  that  the  insulating 
properties  of  this  material  make  it 
equally  useful  for  filling  light  sum- 
mer quilts. 
The  following  directions  indicate 
the  steps  necessary  to  make  the 
quilt.  The  same  procedure  can  be 
used  for  a  down-filled  quilt  if  you 
are  fortunate  enough  to  possess 
enough  down  for  the  purpose. 
Secure  enough  medium  weight 
unbleached  muslin  or  ordinary  flour 
sacks  to  make  a  bag  as  wide  as  you 
wish  the  quilt  to  be  made  and  twice 
the  desired  length.  Fold  across  the 
center  and  join  the  ends,  but  do  not 
join  the  sides  of  the  quilt. 
Machine  stitch  through  the  cen- 
ter, lengthwise.  Then  begin  at  one 
end  and  sew  across  the  quilt  at  in- 
tervals of  about  eight  inches  to 
form  two  sets  of  deep  pockets. 
The  pockets  are  then  filled  with 
kapok.    I  use  one  pound  for  a  large 
Poeie  38 
crib  quilt,  less  for  smaller  ones.  Di- 
vide the  kapok  evenly  among  the 
pockets  and  sew  the  sides  to  pre- 
vent the  escape  of  the  down-like 
kapok.  The  kapok  is  then  distribu- 
ted evenly  throughout  each  pocket 
and  a  row  or  two  of  loose  basting 
stitches  lengthwise  through  each 
pocket  will  aid  in  keeping  it  in 
place,  preventing  bunching.  Ma- 
chine stitching,  especially  if  it  is 
very  close,  reduces  the  softness  of 
the  finished  quilt. 
ITAPOK  quilts  should  not  be 
washed.  (Experience  was  my 
teacher,  and  a  good  one.)  They  do 
seem  to  enjoy  frequent  outings  on 
the  clotheslines  to  air  and  sun. 
Since  it  is  essential  that  the  cover 
be  washed  when  used  for  infants, 
we  made  outside  coverings  that 
were  removable  and  washable. 
My  favorite  covering  is  a  color- 
ful patchwork  top  made  of  soft, 
bright  percale  scraps  pieced  together 
with  flour  sacks  that  were  dyed 
bright  yellow.  The  lining  for  this 
cover  was  also  made  from  the  same 
bright  yellow  material.  Care  must 
be  taken  to  select  only  very  soft 
materials  for  this  purpose  if  the 
fluffy  kapok  is  to  show  off  to  best 
advantage. 
The  cover  and  lining  are  placed 
with  the  right  sides  together  and 
seamed  along  both  sides  and  one 
end.  Make  sure  that  the  quilt  and 
the  covering  will  fit  perfectly  by 
using  the   same  measurements   for

HOW  TO  MAKE  A  KAPOK  QUILT  39 
each.    Then  turn  to  the  right  sid«  ly  tends  to  pack  the  kapok.    There- 
and    shp    the    completed    covering  fore,  it  should  be  tied  only  where 
over  the  kapok-filled  bag.  necessary   to   hold    the   inside   bag 
To  complete  the  quilt,  after  the  and   the  cover  in  place.     It  then 
inner  bag  is  properly  fitted  within  takes   but  a   moment   to   snip   the 
the  cover,  close  the  open  end  of  ties  and  remove  the  cover  to  launder 
the     cover,     with     small     invisible  it. 
stitches.     The   quilt   is    then    tied         If,  after  use,  the  kapok  becomes 
with  yarn  in  the    same    way  that  somewhat  lumpy  it  can  be  fluffed 
grandmother  used  to  tie  the  heavy  by  lightly  pulling  the  lumps  apart 
woolen  quilts  of  her  day.  Quilting  with  the  hands.    This  can  easily  be 
or  tying  this  type  of  quilt  too  close-  done  without  removing  the  cover. 
Joanna 
(Continued  from  page  25)  pies.     "Race!     Race!     Should   we 
CHE    noticed    suddenly    that   the  give  Sally  and  Mike  a  head  start?" 
room  had  grown  dark  and  that  ''Oh,  yes.  David,  you  and  Pen- 
she  had  not  heard  the  children  for  ny  get  way  back  here.  Farther, 
some  time.  She  rose  hastily  and  much  farther."  Her  voice  had  a 
went  in  search  of  them.  queer  catch  in  it,  but  they  didn't 
They  were  at  the  far  end  of  the  seem  to  notice.    ''Now,  run!" 
block,    watching    a    neighbor    rake  They  sped  away  from  her;  leaves 
autumn  leaves  into  a  burning  pile  whiried   up   from   their   feet.     She 
for    the    delight    of    his    children,  watched  their  fleeing  forms.  Penny 
There  were   two   of   them.     They  ran  like  a  doe,  fleet  and  wild,  her 
raced  around  their  father,  shouting  dark    hair    streamed    behind    her. 
with  delight  when  sparks  showered  David  ran  with  his  head  down,  his 
around   them.     The    man    caught  arms   close  at  his  sides.     Michael 
them   and  held   them   tinder  each  laughed   when   he   ran,    spurts    of 
arm,  laughing  over  them,  pride  in  laughter,  pushed  out  of  his  fat  body, 
his  face.  Sally   only   pretended   to  run,   not 
Joanna's     children     stood     shyly  really  interested  in  such  a  boisterous 
back    from    the    blaze,    spectators  business, 
only,  taking  the  new  role  humbly.  Penny   reached    the   porch    tirst. 
"Children,"    Joanna    cried,    una-  She   straddled   the  railing,   waiting 
ware  of  the  tears   scattering  from  for    Joanna.      "Look,    Mom,    the 
her  eyes.    "It's  time  for  supper.  Did  street  is  pretty  now.    It  gets  pretty 
you    forget?      Let's    have    a    race  at  night  when  the  houses  are  hid- 
home."  den." 
They  leaped  around  her  like  pup-  Joanna    followed    her    daughter's

40 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1949 
eyes.  It  was  true.  The  houses  were 
hidden  by  shadows,  their  windows 
were  cheerful  with  the  bright  gold- 
en light  streaming  out  of  them.  The 
dark  night  seemed  caught  in  the 
black,  stripped  branches  of  the  cot- 
tonwoods.  Suddenly  Joanna  shiv- 
ered. Winter  was  not  far  off,  al- 
most she  could  hear  it,  baying  on 
the  hills  like  a  gaunt  white  wolf. 
She  herded  the  children  into  the 
house,  sent  them  to  the  bathroom 
to  be  washed  by  Penny.  She 
warmed  a  casserole  dish  of  stewed 
chicken  and  noodles,  cleared  the 
table  and  set  it  with  her  own  pre- 
serves, with  thick  slices  of  home- 
made bread  and  with  fresh  country 
butter  that  one  of  the  women  had 
brought  from  Brigham. 
The  children  sat  in  their  accus- 
tomed places.  They  stared  silently 
at  the  chair  where  their  father  had 
sat.  Their  small  faces  grew  sharp. 
Joanna  sat  hastily  in  the  vacant 
chair.  She  bowed  her  head.  ''David, 
you  ask  the  blessing." 
They  ate  hungrily,  with  the  in- 
tense enjoyment  of  healthy  children. 
Joanna  watched  them,  her  hands 
folded  in  her  lap.  Love  and  fear 
and  loss  shook  her  in  turn.  Sudden- 
ly she  could  bear  it  no  longer,  the 
smell  of  hot  chicken,  the  singing  of 
the  kettle  on  the  range,  the  chil- 
dren's lamplit  faces. 
She  rose  and  went  to  her  room. 
She  knelt  beside  the  rocker,  her 
face  leaning  against  the  knuckles  of 
her  hands.  Her  breast  seemed  torn 
with  the  whispered  cry  ''  ...  I 
haven't  anyone  but  thee.  I  know 
I  have  made  mistakes,  done  foolish 
things   Forgive  me  and  help 
me  now,  I  humbly  pray  .  .  .  ." 
(To  be  continued) 
ONCE  REMEMBERED 
Wanda  Greene  Nielson 
I  tried  to  ease  my  aching  heart, 
And  turned  from  love  away; 
I  never  once  remembered  you 
The  first  monotonous  day! 
I  schooled  my  heart  and  trained  my  thoughts 
So  very  well!    At  length 
I  took  a  stroll  down  memory's  lane, 
Just  to  test  my  strength. 
Weighted  to  a  burden, 
Sharpened  to  a  pain, 
Love  with  its  hurting 
Is  in  my  heart  again.