[Having an appreciative audience went to the lonely old fellow's head and his stories got better and better. We were all surprised when the gray winter dawn broke up the party and the children trooped in to see the tree and get their gifts. In the ensuing hubbub, no one noticed that none of us received anything from the rest of the family, we had all given our gifts to the guests. Poor]

Having an appreciative audience went to the lonely old fellow's head and his stories got better and better. We were all surprised when the gray winter dawn broke up the party and the children trooped in to see the tree and get their gifts. In the ensuing hubbub, no one noticed that none of us received anything from the rest of the family, we had all given our gifts to the guests. Poor 19
Maitland had spent his all on a red woolen muffler for Mr. Jacobson, but no gift ever brought greater joy.
Then the children must be washed and fed and got off to church, and the big Christmas dinner must be prepared. All the grownups took a hand at this, but it was Rumplestiltskin who did the most, and with wonderful results, for it seemed that once in his checkered career, he had been a chef. It was early dusk of Christmas night when we told him, the last guest, goodbye. Aunt Mary, who was not leaving, had gone to bed, worn out with excitement. After Rumplestiltskin had bowed himself out, still thanking us all, Dad put his arm around Mother. "Well, you had your Christmas, after all! Satisfied?"
Mother sighed, happily, "Oh, it was wonderful! But I'm afraid it was pretty expensive," she added, in a small voice. "Undoubtedly!" Dad grinned, "and what's more, the whole place looks like a Hurrah's nest!" "Who cares?" said Mother.
Many others.
People and their character portrayal.
Japanese prison camp in 1942. Estelle Webb Thomas, whose writings have appeared in the various Church magazines for many years, was awarded the M. I. A. Centennial Prize for her story "Eddie Had a Sweet Tooth." stories, poems, and articles in a number of national periodicals, including Common Ground, The American Weekly, Woman's World, Story Parade, Jack and Jill, Playmate, the D, C. Cook Company religious publications, and Her work reveals a broad and sympathetic understanding of problems, as well as a unique craftsmanship and realistic The Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure her many fine contributions, particularly her outstanding story "Call It a Day" (July 1947). Her article "Latter-day Saint Pioneers in New Mexico" (April 1947) was of exceptional interest and beautifully composed. Mr.
Thomas is in Navajo Service at Shiprock, New Mexico, and the Thomases are the parents of three children. Ted is attending school in Maryland, and Kathleen is at Brigham Young University.
Accomplishment of which I am vaingloriously proud is my children." Mrs.
Thomas has published Wayne, the oldest, died in a Mrs.
Thomas writes: "The one