[Clary quality of Relief Socie North 7th East, Provo, Utah, for Magazine, and will aid © women er story " hey Die in the Harness." of the hurch j the development The third prize of thirty dollars Of their gifts in Creative Writing, 'S awarded to Mildred R, Stutz, he Relief ociet Magazine Pei! Phraim, h, for her story "Com. Has]

Clary quality of Relief Socie North 7th East, Provo, Utah, for Magazine, and will aid © women er story " hey Die in the Harness." of the hurch j the development The third prize of thirty dollars Of their gifts in Creative Writing, 'S awarded to Mildred R, Stutz, he Relief ociet Magazine Pei! Phraim, h, for her story "Com. Has 4 "culation of nea Promise," wee With 4 short Sto Hirst Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Canes: The Hurrah's Nest Estelle Webb Thomas
ESTELLE WEBB THOMAS 66 OW don't get to thinking we're rich, dear!" Dad warned, but Mother only gave her disarming little laugh and said, mildly, "It's all a matter of attitude. I can be rich with the same amount of money you can be poor with!" "Another dangling preposition, Mother!" Linda pointed out. Linda is majoring in English and watches for grammatical errors like Towser watches for rats. It's not what we say, that matters to her, but how we say it. "T told you, dear, I'm not saying 'with which,' "' Mother stated, firmly, "it's stilted!" But Dad was not to be deflected by Linda's red herring, for that's what it was. She was trying to change the subject because, to us children, the very foundations of the home seem to rock when Dad and Mother don't agree. Now, don't get me wrong—my parents are tops, and lovely to each other. They practically never disagree except when their complexes conflict and, of course, they can't help that, for though both the poor dears have a complex, unfortunately, neither knows it, or would admit it if he did. Luckily, I understand all about such things since I started taking psychology under Dr. Ewing and can be a lot more tolerant than I once was. Dad, you see, is not at all to blame for his. He inherited it from his New England ancestors, who, due to the hard country and conditions of those early days, grew to be what Mother delicately calls "close" about money. Dad's a darling, but honestly, his fear of poverty and dependence in his old age amounts to an obsession and makes things pretty complicated at times, though at heart he's the soul of generosity. He asked now, sternly, "Don't you ever think of trying to leave the children anything?" "Certainly, I do," Mother replied, airily, "memories!" Page 13 

14