[LESSON DEPARTMENT He spent much of 1888 and 188g in the East, regulating Church financial and immigration affairs as well] as interceding on behalf of the Church with government officials, He was unusually successful in these activities, which contributed to the ultimate amicable settlement of the difficulties with the government. The life of Joseph F. Smith will be further treated in the lesson dealing with his presidency. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. How do you account for the fact that Wilford Woodruff was so sensitive to the Promptings of the Spirit? 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." References Cow ey, Mattutas F -- Wilford Woodtuft (biography), Cow. Ey, Martruts F., Prophets and Pattiarchs, pp. 69-85. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- ei: ae. Joserpu Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, Pp. 603-613. SMITH, JosEPH Fiepinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 252-301. Wooprvrr, Witrorp, Leaves From My Journal. ~~ COLOR GUARD Gladys I. Hamilton The whitest things are mountain peaks, All ermine-dressed in snow; The reddest things are berry balls Where the valley haw trees grow. Then up above, the bluest thing Is clearness of blue sky; A color guard reminding me That hope must never die! 71 9°]

LESSON DEPARTMENT He spent much of 1888 and 188g in the East, regulating Church financial and immigration affairs as well] as interceding on behalf of the Church with government officials, He was unusually successful in these activities, which contributed to the ultimate amicable settlement of the difficulties with the government. The life of Joseph F. Smith will be further treated in the lesson dealing with his presidency. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. How do you account for the fact that Wilford Woodruff was so sensitive to the Promptings of the Spirit? 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." References Cow ey, Mattutas F -- Wilford Woodtuft (biography), Cow. Ey, Martruts F., Prophets and Pattiarchs, pp. 69-85. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- ei: ae. Joserpu Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, Pp. 603-613. SMITH, JosEPH Fiepinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 252-301. Wooprvrr, Witrorp, Leaves From My Journal. ~~ COLOR GUARD Gladys I. Hamilton The whitest things are mountain peaks, All ermine-dressed in snow; The reddest things are berry balls Where the valley haw trees grow. Then up above, the bluest thing Is clearness of blue sky; A color guard reminding me That hope must never die! 71 9° 90