[Nearly all students can eventually be "reached" and motivated. But all State action does not typify the patience of a public school teacher.]

Nearly all students can eventually be "reached" and motivated. But all State action does not typify the patience of a public school teacher. 64
The Communist—Socialist Attack Notwithstanding these well-established facts of experience, certain political philosophies assume that materialism and environment wholely determine, rather than influence human behavior.
Some therefore seek to establish the totalitarian State as the means of solving all human problems.
Paraphrasing the scripture, they seem to say, "Cast thy burdens upon the State and it will sustain thee!"
Usually their cause is advanced by the argument that until the State is all-powerful and can control and distribute all materials, mankind cannot really be free!
This is like saying that people should never have come to Utah until the ditches were dug, the streets paved, the flowers planted, the lights turned on, and the tables set for ready-cooked feasts, piled high thereon!
Some socialists, a few have recognized and are willing to abide by the scientific doctrine of limited government, but the communists accept the doctrine of the necessity of total State dictatorship as the way to man's temporal salvation. In return, it is evident that the men in those systems find they have all too often received slavery under the guise of promises of wellbeing. The Values of Constitutional Government The values of constitutional govermment have already been well marked out in this series. In summary, they may be expressed as follows: 1.
Liberty for the maturing individual to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness— including his home and property. 2.
Liberty of real association in groups,  including religious as well as diverse political parties and various economic groups which share the responsibilities of governing men and each other. 3. Freedom, with tolerance, to "proselyte," whether it be a corporation selling soap; a union selling memberships; a religion, or various colleges competing for students—with corresponding liberty of each individual to choose for himself or reject them all.
This freedom embraces those of speech, press, person, religion, political and social association. And as a result—we have: 4.
Freedom to choose and retire officers of government without fear or restraint. 5.
Freedom to inquire and discover, in human experience and the media of inspiration, constant means of improving ourselves, our community, and our government. Finally: 6. The rule of law results from all these, imposing restraints and responsibilities on the individual, all groups, and the government, and setting up orderly procedures (jury trial, elections, the right of assembly and petition, judicial determination in open court) whereby rights may be secured.
Govemment thus limited by law may become constitutional government. Thus, in a constitutional system, "governments have a right to enact such laws as... Are best calculated to secure the public interest" (D. & C. 134:5).
Best calculated by whom? The people! And _ thus, constitutional or limited government, while never static nor confined to single objects, is always defined. And whatever is defined is under limitation and cannot be arbitrary without public notice.