[Vol36 | January 1949 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: 13 President Belle S. Spafford Elected to Office in the National Council | Author: Priscilla L. Evans]
PRESIDENT  SPAFFORD  ELECTED  TO  OFFICE 
21 
^HE  objects  and  purposes  of  the 
Council  were  stated  in  the  pre- 
amble of  its  constitution  adopted 
at  the  time  of  its  organization,  and 
still  remain  the  basis  of  the  pro- 
gram of  the  Council: 
We,  women  of  the  United  States, 
sincerely  believing  that  the  best  good  of 
our  homes  and  nation  will  be  advanced 
by  our  own  greater  unity  of  thought, 
sympathy  and  purpose,  and  that  an  or- 
ganized movement  will  best  conserve  the 
highest  good  of  the  family  and  State,  do 
hereby  band  ourselves  together  in  a  con- 
federation of  workers  committed  to  the 
overthrow  of  all  forms  of  ignorance  and 
injustice,  and  to  the  apphcation  of  the 
Golden  Rule  in  society,  custom  and  law. 
The  National  Council  does  not 
itself  sponsor  activities  of  a  contro- 
versial nature,  but  it  does  supply 
data  to  its  members  regarding  the 
activities  of  other  members.  No 
member  can,  in  any  case,  be  com- 
mitted to  any  cause  or  project  by 
Council  action  except  by  its  ov^n 
vote.  The  Relief  Society  is  en- 
titled to  twenty-five  voting  dele- 
gates at  all  conference  sessions  of 
the  Council. 
There  is  a  high  note  of  spirituality 
running  through  all  the  undertak- 
ings of  the  Council.  This  is  what 
one  would  expect  when  women  of 
every  creed,  nationality  and  color, 
and  from  every  walk  of  life  meet  to- 
gether with  a  common  purpose.  It 
is  indeed  a  sisterhood  and  is  often 
so  referred  to  by  the  speakers  of  the 
convention.  The  words  of  Baron- 
ess Pol  Boel  of  Brussels  (President 
of  the  International  Council  of 
Women  during  the  last  World 
War)  are  illustrative  of  this  senti- 
ment: 
As  a  citizen  of  her  nation,  woman's 
place  is  marked  today  beside  the  man, 
her  brothers  .  .  .  She  has  to  accomplish 
her  task  with  the  man  beside  her.  As 
citizens  of  the  world,  she  has  not  yet 
been  able  to  give  the  measure  of  her  pos- 
sibilities, she  has  not  yet  realized  the 
young  forces  that  are  in  her.  As  mother, 
she  creates  life.  More  than  man,  she  has 
the  duty  to  defend  this  life  which  she  has 
given  and  of  which  she  is  the  guardian  .  .  . 
Let  us  go  forward,  sisters,  in  this  new 
crusade  for  the  respect  of  human  rights 
in  a  free  world  where,  with  the  help  of 
God,  more  justice  and  more  love  shall 
reign. 
ARTIST 
Gene  Romolo 
On  wings  of  the  wind,  an  artist  came  flying 
From  heights  of  the  north,  and  through  the  night 
He  silently  worked,  energetically  plying 
His  fine-tempered  tools  till  the  advent  of  light. 
With  feathery  fronds,  he  etched  every  pane; 
With  spangles  like  Stardust,  he  covered  the  trees. 
He  built,  from  the  brook,  a  white,  winding  lane, 
And  formed  diamond  drops  from  the  breath  of  a  breeze 
Even  the  lowliest  shrubs  were  embossed 
With  the  fragiley  beautiful  art  of  the  Frost.