[OW don't get to thinking we're rich, dear!" Dad warned, but Mother only gave her disarming little laugh and said, mildly, "It's all a matter of attitude. I can be rich with the same amount of money you can be poor with!" "Another dangling preposition, Mother!" Linda pointed out. Linda is majoring in English and watches for grammatical errors like Towser watches for rats. It's not what we say, that matters to her, but how we say it. "T told you, dear, I'm not saying 'with which,' "' Mother stated, firmly, "it's stilted!" But Dad was not to be deflected by Linda's red herring, for that's what it was. She was trying to change the subject because, to us children, the very foundations of the home seem to rock when Dad and Mother don't agree. Now, don't get me wrong—my parents are tops, and lovely to each other. They practically never disagree except when their complexes conflict and, of course, they can't help that, for though both the poor dears have a complex, unfortunately, neither knows it, or would admit it if he did. Luckily, I understand all about such things since I started taking psychology under Dr. Ewing and can be a lot more tolerant than I once was. Dad, you see, is not at all to blame for his. He inherited it from his New England ancestors, who, due to the hard country and conditions of those early days, grew to be what Mother delicately calls "close" about money. Dad's a darling, but honestly, his fear of poverty and dependence in his old age amounts to an obsession and makes things pretty complicated at times, though at heart he's the soul of generosity. He asked now, sternly, "Don't you ever think of trying to leave the children anything?" "Certainly, I do," Mother replied, airily, "memories!" Page]

OW don't get to thinking we're rich, dear!" Dad warned, but Mother only gave her disarming little laugh and said, mildly, "It's all a matter of attitude. I can be rich with the same amount of money you can be poor with!" "Another dangling preposition, Mother!" Linda pointed out. Linda is majoring in English and watches for grammatical errors like Towser watches for rats. It's not what we say, that matters to her, but how we say it. "T told you, dear, I'm not saying 'with which,' "' Mother stated, firmly, "it's stilted!" But Dad was not to be deflected by Linda's red herring, for that's what it was. She was trying to change the subject because, to us children, the very foundations of the home seem to rock when Dad and Mother don't agree. Now, don't get me wrong—my parents are tops, and lovely to each other. They practically never disagree except when their complexes conflict and, of course, they can't help that, for though both the poor dears have a complex, unfortunately, neither knows it, or would admit it if he did. Luckily, I understand all about such things since I started taking psychology under Dr. Ewing and can be a lot more tolerant than I once was. Dad, you see, is not at all to blame for his. He inherited it from his New England ancestors, who, due to the hard country and conditions of those early days, grew to be what Mother delicately calls "close" about money. Dad's a darling, but honestly, his fear of poverty and dependence in his old age amounts to an obsession and makes things pretty complicated at times, though at heart he's the soul of generosity. He asked now, sternly, "Don't you ever think of trying to leave the children anything?" "Certainly, I do," Mother replied, airily, "memories!"  

14  "You'll find they can't eat memOries, or wear them, either!" "But happy memories feed the soul," Mother persisted perversely. "The way these kids wear out shoes, I have to think more of so-l-e-s than of s-o-ul-s," Dad growled, "and you'd better do the same!" "What a low thought, Dad!' Maitland laughed, and got a withering glance in reply. If there's anything Dad hates worse than extravagance, it's puns. OTHER'S complex, by the way, is cleanliness. She wages an endless war with dirt, which wouldn't be so bad, except that we're all recruits in her army, sometimes unwilling ones, especially Maitland who, being a normal boy of fourteen, is really in the enemy's camp. But, to get back to the present argument, which concerned Mother's pet plan to adopt a European family. Since Dad _ finally convinced her that at present he was able to support only one family, and if it was to be a European one, they'd have to put us children in an orphan asylum, Mother _narrowed down her project to providing our foreign friends with a beautiful Christmas. It was unfortunate that the time for sending the boxes overseas should also be the date for the Youth Convention, because Linda had set her heart on going and that made two big expenses at the same time. We were all languishing in the poor house at the mercy of heartless strangers before she had Dad talked over. But I noticed he had as much fun as any of us filling the Christmas boxes with good things to eat and wear that we knew would be real luxuries over there. But after they were posted and Linda gone, Mother seemed to sort of droop. I found her in our room one day when I came from school, half-heartedly straightening the closet. "Why, Mother," "Tll do our room." But she shook her head. "It was Linda left it looking like a Hurrah's nest. I thought I'd just pick up a bit before you got home." A disordered room always looks like a Hurrah's nest to Mother. Dad says it's the silliest expression in the language and tries to break her of using it, but Mother declares it describes just what she means and won't give it up. I was really worried when she found the zipper of Linda's formal bag open and a cricket inside. She didn't even scold, just wrapped the cricket in a paper handkerchief and dropped it in the wastebasket and quietly zipped up the bag. '"What's the matter?" I burst out finally, "you look like three rainy days!" "It's Christmas," Mother confessed dolefully, sitting down beside me on my bed. "No one to plan for but ourselves. But, of course, after sending all those boxes." "You mean nobody's coming, not even Aunt Mary?" "Well, dear, it's nobody's fault but my own, after all, those boxes were expensive and Linda's trip— and I promised Daddy...."
Mother looked out the window and blinked rapidly several times. "Aunt Mary will understand." I protested, THE HURRAH'S NEST Mother's Aunt Mary. Is her nearest living relative and she not only spends every Christmas with us, but we send her the round trip ticket as well. "But isn't Dad asking Cousin Sally and the children?" "No. That's why I can't have Aunt Mary. It means a lot to Daddy to have Sally's family here." FTER Mother left I sat on doing some mental juggling with my Christmas money. But though I cut all gifts to the bone, I still couldn't manage Aunt Mary's ticket with that. I was forced to remember the cold cream jar full of coins I'd been saving for a new formal for the Christmas dance. Sadly, I kissed the dream goodby. It was to have been a black, slinky affair, and Mother wouldn't have let me wear it, anyway, and it wouldn't be Christmas to Mother without Aunt Mary.
That would be my gift to her. It was hard to keep it a secret when I saw Mother listlessly cutting the fruitcake recipe in half and deciding against mince pies, since we don't care specially for them, though Sally's gang can eat a dozen. And the bluer she got about Christmas, the fussier Mother got about keeping everything spic and span. She even said it was probably a good thing we were having no one for Christmas, company made such a mess.
That was the day she told Dad his den looked like a Hurrah's nest. "Now look here, my good woman," Dad protested, "that mysterious creature has nested in every room in the house, except mine, but I swear it's never been therel I 15 wouldn't know a Hurrah if I'd meet it on the street!"
Mother wasn't amused. "I often wonder what you'd do if I'd die?" she said, in a martyred tone. "We'd give you the most wonderful send-off a woman ever had!" Dad gazed dreamily out the window, "Flowers banked to the ceiling— sermon by." "You don't have to have so much fun planning it!"
Mother snapped, "and I don't mean the funeral, as you well know. I'd be satisfied with a few less flowers and the assurance you all had all your buttons!" "That's the girl!" Dad patted her shoulder, which she says always makes her feel like a horse. "I think you'd better decide to stay with us till we get out of the helpless stage!" "Which will be forever," Mother muttered, but she looked mollified.
This was an old story to us children, but we were always relieved when Dad had Mother kidded out of that particular mood. We noticed that if he joined enthusiastically in her talk about dying, the idea seemed to lose some of its charm. But Mother was not the only one lacking the Christmas spirit. Dad wasn't his usual jovial self and even Maitland said suddenly one day while we were washing dishes, "Gee, everything seems tough! Got any money, Missy?" Missy—that's me. Isn't it revolting?