[Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah P9900 0]
President  Belle  S.  Spafford  Elected  to  Office 
in  the  National  Council  of  Women 
Piiscilh  L.  Evans 
Former  Relief  Society  General  Board  Member  and  former  Corresponding  Secretary, 
National  Council  of  Women — 1938-1948. 
WITH  the  election  of  Presi- 
dent Belle  S.  Spafford  to 
the  office  of  third  vice- 
president  of  the  National  Council 
of  Women  of  the  United  States,  at 
the  biennial  meeting  of  the  Coun- 
cil held  in  New  York  City  on  No- 
vember 10th,  1948,  recognition  has 
again  come  to  the  women  of  the 
Church  and  to  the  great  Rehef  So- 
ciety organization  over  which  Sister 
Spafford  now  presides.  She  will  as- 
sume this  added  responsibility  with 
capacity  and  with  dignity.  Wise  in 
counsel,  frank  and  sincere,  friendly, 
tolerant,  and  with  rich  organization- 
al experience.  Sister  Spafford  will 
be  warmly  welcomed  into  the  de- 
liberations of  the  Council's  board 
of  directors. 
It  is  an  interesting  experience, 
and  one  greatly  to  be  desired,  to 
meet  intimately  with  the  strong 
leadership  of  the  women's  organiza- 
tions from  all  parts  of  the  United 
States— women  of  integrity,  of  high 
ideals,  and  great  moral  strength,  all 
with  the  common  purpose  of  im- 
proving the  status  of  women  the 
world  over. 
From  the  time  of  President  Zina 
D.  H.  Young,  under  whose  admin- 
istration the  Relief  Society  joined 
the  National  Council  of  Women, 
to  the  present  day,  women  repre- 
senting the  membership  of  the  Re- 
lief Society  have  been  active  in 
Council  affairs,  serving  as  officers 
Page  20 
and  as  members  of  the  executive 
committee  of  the  board  of  directors 
and  also  as  members  of  the  standing 
committees  of  the  Council.  Their 
influence  has  been  salutary  and 
many  close  friendships  have  been 
developed.  Today  the  Relief  So- 
ciety and  its  officers  and  representa- 
tives are  held  in  the  highest  esteem. 
On  behalf  of  the  women  of  the 
Relief  Society  in  all  lands  we  ex- 
tend congratulations  to  President 
Spafford  and  wish  for  her  success 
and  satisfaction  in  this  assignment. 
The  National  Council  of  Women 
is  a  voluntary  association  of  self- 
governing  national  organizations 
through  which  is  made  possible  an 
interchange  of  ideas,  experiences, 
and  factual  information  on  a  na- 
tion-wide scale.  It  was  founded  in 
the  year  1888  and  at  this  first  meet- 
ing, the  Relief  Society  was  repre- 
sented by  Emily  S.  Richards.  Three 
years  later,  at  the  first  triennial  meet- 
ing of  the  Council,  with  the  advice 
of  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  the 
Relief  Society  became  a  charter 
member,  and  still  continues  as  a 
member,  and  through  membership 
in  the  National  Council,  enjoys  par- 
ticipation in  the  affairs  of  the  Inter- 
national Council  of  Women  which 
is  composed  of  National  Councils 
from  many  countries.  The  Young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  is  also  a  charter  mem- 
ber of  the* Council.
