[The Relief Societ aazine who very much enjoyed her artistic poem « Our Heritage" hich won first prj € ln the]

The Relief Societ aazine who very much enjoyed her artistic poem "Your Heritage" which won first prize in the 1942
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Roberts has won many other poetry prizes and her frontispieces and other poems in The Relief Society Magazine have been recognized as outstanding contributions to the literature of the Latter-day Saints.
Mrs. Roberts summarizes her life thus briefly: "Born on a large ranch in a tiny house on stilts, born to nature and have loved it ever since. I never feel more at home than where weeds grow along a fence, and fruit lines the cellar shelves, and apples, carrots, and potatoes are piled in a pit. I love mountains near and far. I attended the University of Utah and have been a schoolteacher. My hobbies are sewing, cooking, music, and writing. I love poetry and all forms of literature for their inward and outward contours of beauty, and have taught the literature lessons in Relief Society for many years. I have two daughters whom I mention (not by name) in my book of poems, 'Blue
Arrows,' as yet unpublished."

PRIZE-WINNING POEMS
MIRANDA SNOW WALTON
Second Prize Poem
K/Lnother iitary
Miranda Snow Walton
Within the gates of Bethlehem
Another Mary stands;
Her suffering children, scourged and shamed,
Cry out from alien lands.
Fain would she gather them again
To David's white-walled spires,
But heathen hordes have overrun
The city of their sires.
Pagan kings have mocked the throne,
Their evil flag unfurled.
While the children of the covenant
Are outcasts of the world.
Within bereaved Jerusalem
Another Mary knows
The two-fold pain of motherhood—
Her own, her children's woes.
She gave them life, to be destroyed.
Despised, reviled, and slain;
It is a bitter thing to birth
A child foredoomed to pain.

10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1949
The voice of ancient prophecy
Is filled in her despair:
"Woe be to those in latter days
Who would a man child bear."
Upon the hills of Calvary
Another Mary kneels,
She sees white crosses, row on row;
Each one a son! Man feels
The agony of death but once;
She pays the double price,
For man's intolerance to man
Has crucified her twice.
Miranda Snow Walton was born in the Bear River country of Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes. Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad
Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some thirty poetry magazines, and in many newspapers and anthologies, including Utah Sings. Mrs.
Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens) and two sons. Jack and Claude Walton, who were of the fourth generation of one line and the fifth of another, to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs.