[Relief Society Building News 22FICTIONJoanna—Chapter 1 by Margery S. Stewart]

Relief Society building erected in this dispensation. SALT LAKE STAKE: held in the Assembly R in th Fourteenth Ward,, "We have more reason to be commencing at 10 am. SI thankful to God than any peoP put we should be grateful that we are; let_us rea dissension and wat. We are enjoyin Prophet, and inc pray for; let us be charitable and merciful one famine, and let us be prepared for 1 orly paid. One woman be a lawyer—a P hich ability commands honor and profit—her application is refused by the court, >.
Ephere is to marry, not to labor for her own support.
There are about 79,00° lac and in all France there are o00 women engage nearly 200, BY-AND-BY Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hi"; The home-bound swallow, twittering as he tes, Makes silence seem more still —Primitive Methodist  CA TS L/ fl bY a group of Relief Society women from Essex County, New Jersey, with true Latter-day Saint thrift in their bones, saved vegetable crops from being plowed under by going out to farms and picking the vegetables for canning purposes. Pauline Thomander, President of the East Orange Relief Society, read in a newspaper that the crops would be plowed under, as a protest against low market prices, and immediately went into action. A local newspaper carried a picture of Mrs. 'Thomander and Mrs. (Constance) Hyde, a class leader in the same organization, happily at work. Other Latter-day Saint women from Montclair and the Oranges, continued the work the following day. BOARD President 'Truman's train, during his recent campaigning tour, was a handsome young woman from Copenhagen, Adelheid Nielson, who was reporting for a Danish newspaper. AZEL BRANNON of Mississippi, at thirty-four, is publisher, owner, and editor of two newspapers in her State. She has won national press prizes. LL of Finland's libraries will be directed by a woman, Filia S. Wirla, who has been studying and traveling in the United States. Mrs.