[Sweet potatoes (1 good-sized one for each guest) Can of crushed pineapple (1 small can for each four guests) Butter and salt Page]

Sweet potatoes (1 good-sized one for each guest) Can of crushed pineapple (1 small can for each four guests) Butter and salt 
Work for menu No. 1 begins with sweet potatoes.
Bake in a hot oven enough potatoes for each guest and one or two extras. Let the potatoes cool enough to handle, then split them down the center and empty the insides into a large bowl, leaving the skins intact. Add the crushed pineapple, juice and all, then season with salt and butter. Go easy on the salt and be generous with the butter, which may be part margarine, and beat well. Now return the pineapple mixture to the shells, topping each potato with a little butter.
Return to the oven and brown slightly.
Serve immediately.
While the potatoes are baking, open your can or cans of consomme, bring to a boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes.
Serve each cup with a scattering of finely chopped parsley and a thin slice of lemon.
While the consomme is heating, fry your ham gently, timing its finish with the browning of the potatoes.
While the potatoes are browning, cook your frozen peas.
Cook them in a very little water until they are barely tender. For that extra flavor add a few sprigs of parsley and a sprig of fresh mint or fresh thyme and season with cream. If you don't keep French dressing on hand, mix it right after your potatoes are popped into the oven.
Spare a minute somewhere to place your salad greens into a garlic-rubbed bowl, and cover them with a damp cloth and place them in the refrigerator. Don't bring them to the table until the last minute.
Heat your dinner rolls and there you are. For dessert have fresh or canned fruit, chilled. BEAN, TOMATO, AND SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 1 can of red kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans 1 can of solid pack tomatoes " medium-sized onion sliced and sauteed in butter " green pepper sliced and sauteed with onion in butter QUICK AND EASY DINNERS 1 can of Vienna sausage (small) or 1 can of pork sausage Seasonings: salt, pepper, % tsp. Wor- _ cestershire sauce, paprika, dash of Tabasco sauce Coarse bread crumbs and butter (serves 4-6) Sautee the sliced onions and green pepper in butter until a delicate brown, then add the canned kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans, the can of solid pack tomatoes, the sliced sausages, and the seasonings.
Bring to a boil and place in a casserole. Top with bread crumbs and dot with butter.
Bake in a 375° oven from one half to three quarters of an hour. CABBAGE CHOP SUEY 1 'tbs.
Bacon fat 4 cups shredded cabbage 1% cups thinly sliced celery. 1 green pepper (bell) sliced thin 1 medium-sized onion sliced thin This is a four-star vegetable dish, crammed with vitamins.
Start shredding your cabbage the second the casserole dish is in the oven.
When the vegetables are prepared, melt the tablespoon of bacon fat in a heavy aluminum dish. Add the vegetables and seasonings and cover tightly.
Steam from eight to twelve minutes.
Twice during the cooking, you may stir the vegetables lightly. The vegetables should be firm, barely cooked through. And serve at once. The recipe gives enough for six.
31 PINEAPPLE CREAM 2 cups milk 2/3 cups sugar. 2 tbs. Cornstarch 2 eggs separated % tsp. Salt 1 small can of pineapple from which juice has been drained This dish can be prepared beforehand, but if necessary, it can be made after the beans are in the oven and before the cabbage dish is started.
Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the dry ingredients and add gradually to the milk, stirring constantly while the milk thickens.
Cook twelve minutes, then add the beaten egg yolks to which a little of the milk mixture has been added.
Stir and cook for three more minutes.
Remove from heat and add.
Pineapple and whites of eggs beaten stiff.
Cool and serve with pineapple sauce, PINEAPPLE SAUCE / Juice from crushed pineapple and enough water to make a cup 1 tbs.
Lemon juice 1 tbs. Flour 1/3 cup sugar 1 tbs. Butter Heat the liquid. Mix the flour and sugar and add to the hot liquid.
Cook until clear. Add lemon juice and butter -and cool.
Serve this dinner with a basket of French bread and garlic seasoned butter, hot from the oven. Hot chocolate may be served with it also. > A SNOWFALL Julene J. Cushing Let me keep the white peace of this day, When glistening snow banks the garden wall, And lines the lilac trees, each mounded spray Majestic as a frozen waterfall. Let me hold cool shadows from the space Where honeysuckle points a silver wand, And crusted patterns fringed in icy lace, Now frame an etching on the lily pond. THE DRESS rupted us so many times I feel justified."
Janie did not raise her eyes. "Ts it,' Miss Ardman went on with controlled patience, "because you have work to do, or is it just because it is too hard to get up in time?" I wonder if she has ever waked up with the light just strong enough to show the stained wallpaper and felt like there was a cold hand in her stomach, Janie thought resentfully. She hasn't wondered what was going to happen after high school. She hasn't stared at the torn place in the paper and known there was nothing ahead. ISS Ardman had a way of lifting up her face as if she knew exactly what she was going to say. She knew where she was going and how.
When the silence grew too awkward, Janie said, without lifting her eyes, "It's because I hate to get up." Miss Ardman sighed, a gentle sigh.
Then her face lighted as if she had a sudden idea. "That," she said, "is a fault common to us all.
Have you ever heard of Marcus Aurelius, Janie?"
Janie shook her head and some members of the class snickered. "Marcus Aurelius lived way back in the second century," Miss Ardman said, placing her hands in front of her and looking directly at Janie. "He was both a ruler and a philosopher. He was also a warrior and quite prominent in his day. Yet he had the same trouble you have. He hated to get up in the morning.