[With feathery fronds, he etched every pane, With spangles like stardust, he covered the trees. He built, from the brook, a white, winding lane, And formed diamond drops from the breath of a breeze. - - - Even the lowliest shrubs were embossed With the fragiley beautiful art of the Frost. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER]

With feathery fronds, he etched every pane, With spangles like stardust, he covered the trees. He built, from the brook, a white, winding lane, And formed diamond drops from the breath of a breeze. - - - Even the lowliest shrubs were embossed With the fragiley beautiful art of the Frost. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 1 VERYONE left at last, the relatives, the neighbors, the acquaintances. 'They came to Joanna and kissed her and pressed her hand, murmuring over and over, "Be sure to let us know if we can help. Be sure, now." | Joanna nodded her bent head and repeated clumsily, "It was right nice of you to come...
Right nice of you. Pil let you know. We'll get along. We'll get along some way." The friends from Brigham City were the last to go.
They had known her all her life. "You better come back," they said. "We can help you there.... Big city like this is no place for a widow with a family " Joanna lifted her swollen face to them. She looked past the sunbrowned faces of the men and saw again the hills of her home, the pleasant orchards of her childhood, the ordered fields, the roads, the little rivers that had known her bare, quick feet. She looked at the women's faces and saw the pity there. She saw her history in their compassionate eyes Joanna, young and impetuous, not willing to stay like other girls in the small, peaceful town, but running off to the city, to nothing better than waiting on table jobs and to marrying a man her folks had never met. Of whom no one approved. Too gay and quick talking, Joanna's man, David, too many dreams for making money, but not enough money from any of his jobs to pay for doctor bills when his and Joanna's four babies came along. Joanna's folks had paid for them. Joanna's folks had mortgaged their little house and their farm to pay for this and that which Joanna and her small brood had needed, until death had folded their stubborn, toil-hard hands and they could help no more. The relatives would talk about David, Joanna knew, on the swift tide back to Brigham City.
They would comment on his death.
Typical of him, they would say, speeding down a mountain road in a car that should have been in a junk yard long ago...
Typical to have left no insurance, no paid house that a widow might use as a fortress.
Joanna went with the Bngham City people to the door.
Their disapproval made no difference in their love for her.
They wept over her, kissed her again and again.
They bent and hugged the children, standing mute and big-eyed upon the battered porch. "You come up to the farm," they said to Penelope. "We'll fatten you up. ENNY stood stiffly in their arms, a thin, tall child, with long, black hair and her father's beautiful, winging brows. David, no taller than Penny though two years older, endured their caresses with the stoic dignity of ten.