[Many of the poems submitted this year were of outstanding quality and revealed beauty of thoughts and literary technique of distinction, and nearly all of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant idea. All of the 1948 prize winners have received previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the three judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and _biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. DOROTHY y, ROBERTS First Prize Poem Profile of Joseph Dorothy ]. Roberts Page]

Many of the poems submitted this year were of outstanding quality and revealed beauty of thoughts and literary technique of distinction, and nearly all of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant idea. All of the 1948 prize winners have received previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the three judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and _biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. DOROTHY y, ROBERTS First Prize Poem Profile of Joseph Dorothy ]. Roberts  RELIEF SOCIETy MAGA What gentle h tage of hope Could steer His vision through a | byrinth, untried? What "Ourage, rooted Cep within, denied The ho ded Serpent of Whispering fear? A manna from his fo ebears tinged his blood Their Priestly Tumpets quivered in his veins Their solemn altars Marked the templed mind Of the {uct Israelite ho brayeq the flood Of jeers tha Tumbled hrough Judean lanes; Who talkeg with angels and whose Way was kind. His traj], Wind-writhen on Egyptian sand, as under timpled Silver found its grave, For desert Is fluid as a breaking Wave d less tha "€, 18 servile to the hand veil is spy before the ystic strand Sphinx ang Pyramid.