[The Modern Family and Spirituality by Achsa E. Paxman]

The Modern Family and Spirituality Achsa E. Paxman Member, Relief Society General Board OME is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want ourChurch and community to be, we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. 'The most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion. It helps us to face danger, disappointments, and sorrow. Religious faith helps us to put our trust in the Lord and must be acquired early in life and exercised throughout life. It is a great influence and blessing in every Latterday Saint home. A mother is responsible for the atmosphere of the home. If our children are to do their part we must do ours. One of our leaders has said, "I am not afraid of the youth of this Church. What are you parents doing? Are you doing your part in every way?" Unless we are more capable wives and wiser mothers who teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and _ righteousness, we have fallen short of our goal in spite of all our accomplishments. As mothers, it doesn't matter, when we die, whether we have scrubbed our floors every day or not, but it does matter whether we have taught our children the Word of Wisdom,  and family prayers, and whether or not our children have a testimony of the gospel.

A few years ago the following suggestions were given by Dr. Wayne B. Hales as helps in family life:

1. Always be an example to your child.
2. Establish confidence among your boys and girls.
3. Establish traditions for your home so strong that nothing can come to break it. Have various days stand out as events in the home.
4. Use the agencies that are available for building character. Morality can be taught as well as arithmetic.

The parents who can plant devotion and faith in God in their children have already laid a good foundation for a fine and happy life. The value of the blessing on the food and family prayers gives spiritual joy and gratitude in the home. People who pray together do not get very far apart.

In our modern Latter-day Saint homes we must teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and righteousness. It is the responsibility of the home to teach the three R's: righteous living; reverence; and responsibility.

How do we teach righteousness? By righteous living. Reverence? By devotion to prayer and to Church principles and teachings. Responsibility? Each member should be given responsibility. Home work should be shared so that parents and young people can spend some of their leisure time together.

WHAT a great advantage the Latter-day Saint people have as the Church provides a constructive program from childhood through maturity. What a great blessing it is to the family when the parents and the children are taking advantage of the auxiliary and Priesthood work provided for the family, and when the father can say, "This morning, son, it is Priesthood meeting, let us go together."

The mother who can inspire confidence that God is good and is looking after his children will promote faith and devotion in her boy and will build a foundation for Priesthood work. Her influence will be just as great with her daughters in their devotion to Church work.

A widowed mother with four children was suddenly bereft of her only adult kin, her mother. Of the trials and faith and courage, her oldest son said of his mother:

I think it was not so much what she said as what she was. Her very life breathed into the souls of those about her a beautiful peace. This gentle, quiet, suffering little mother of mine lived into my life the feeling that heaven was near and that God was good to her and all of his children even in our sorrows.

Jesus believed that the way to get faith out of men is to show that you have faith in them; and from that great principle of executive management he never wavered.

Spirituality is the most important of all. If we seek guidance from our Father in heaven and strive to keep the principles and teachings of our Church and the commandments of God, we will be blessed with joy and power in our homes.

Teach children that everyone is to obey laws. Give a child commendation and praise for right actions. Everyone craves approval.

Dr. Popenoe expressed at a child welfare convention:

The primary factor in education is the example of the child's own parents. Children learn life from the pattern their parents use. Children seem intuitively to absorb prejudices, whims, etc. of parents. The future of the individual depends upon the wisdom and guidance of the parents. The greatest part of the education your children receive comes from you.

Home, then, is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education.

The Latter-day Saint home is where our boys and girls learn what life really is, what it means to know God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Through our homes our children respond to the teachings in Primary, M.I.A., Sunday School, Priesthood work and seminary. Hidden treasures of knowledge unfold themselves; the standard works of the Church are clearer; life is infinitely happier.

May we believe with Oliver Wendell Holmes that: "It is faith in something which makes life worth living." And may that faith lead us into a religious response to life which will take us up from the level of compulsion, either of law or of conscience, to that higher ground of an enthusiastic devotion to the finest ideals we know.

"Life at its best is the life where one loves the Lord with all one's might, mind, and strength, and his neighbor as himself."