[Three years later, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, with the advice of President Wilford Woodruff, the Relief Society became 4 charter member, and still continues as 4 member, and through membership in the National Council, enjoys par ticipation in the affairs of the International Council of Women which is composed of National Councils from many countries. The Young Women's. Mutual Improvement Association is also a charter member of the' Council. PRESIDENT SPAFFORD ELECTED TO OFFICE THE objects and purposes of the Council were stated in the pre: amble of its constitution adopted at the time of its organization, and still remain the basis of the program of the Council: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The National Council does not itself sponsor activities of a controversial nature, but it does supply data to its members regarding the activities of other members. No member 'can, in any case, be com: mitted to any cause OT project by Council action except by its own vote, The Relief Society is em titled to twenty-five voting delegates at all conference sessions of the Council.]

Three years later, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, with the advice of President Wilford Woodruff, the Relief Society became 4 charter member, and still continues as 4 member, and through membership in the National Council, enjoys par ticipation in the affairs of the International Council of Women which is composed of National Councils from many countries. The Young Women's. Mutual Improvement Association is also a charter member of the' Council. PRESIDENT SPAFFORD ELECTED TO OFFICE THE objects and purposes of the Council were stated in the pre: amble of its constitution adopted at the time of its organization, and still remain the basis of the program of the Council: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The National Council does not itself sponsor activities of a controversial nature, but it does supply data to its members regarding the activities of other members. No member 'can, in any case, be com: mitted to any cause OT project by Council action except by its own vote, The Relief Society is em titled to twenty-five voting delegates at all conference sessions of the Council. 21