[To a Seeing-Eye Dog by Marvin Jones]

TO A SEEING-EYE DOG Marvin Jones You leave the sun-blanched beauty of your day That breaks cleanly on time's white sand, To walk with me along the pain-starred way Of night—eyes in my hand 
62 
Soctal Science—Latter-day Saint Politica] Thought For Tuesday, April 26, 1949 ————— rr Objective: to Tecognize the limitations of the State in its ability to solve problems, Note: State in this lesson refers to q nation, EVAN JENSEN Government, Social, and conomic Life to recognize the existence of other social institutions. The family, the church, fraternal associations, guilds, unions, Corporations, and so forth. Under the doctrine of limited, constitutional s°vernment, it has been an ideal that government was not HE modern State is a Nationa] _ the only but another institution, or ghee are two aspects to the function of adjudicating be tween groups, citizens, and itself. More and more, however, the modern State* has come to dominate the States ( international telations) and "fairs of most Of these other eroups. Their effects on men, pects are inseparable in that both relationships affect p cople.. Tions have been self-imposed by the American internal policy may favor ' its members in the family; but jf the United States. Comes into conflict with another State, war may result, and the fammale red-heads under six feet in to men in both areas. Internal (do. Height can only marry female brumestic) problems will be discussed "Referring to a nation and not a state of first, the United States.
LESSON DEPARTMENT nettes weighing at least 128 pounds?
Where is the line to be drawn?
This is where the ancient concept of constitutional-legal limitations, of "limited government," comes in to guide the democratic process.
Although the community is free to impose restrictions, it should also be conscious of its liberty to do so, and recognize the necessity of legal, orderly processes in approaching such problems.
Only thus can the best welfare of the majority, as in the case of the pre-marital examination, be served and arbitrary mischief avoided.
Even so, the task of government is always to strike the delicate balance between liberty, authority, and public welfare.
This demonstrates the importance of political theory in evaluating contemporary policies! For when government is limited and responsible there is a tendency for all other groups to emulate the government.
What is happening in the modern world is that men everywhere look to the State for security, for "salvation" from all of their enemies, domestic and foreign. Let us look at this attitude somewhat more closely.
What do most of the people you know look toward to solve the housing problem? The liquor problem? (Utah, in its department of Public Welfare, established an alcoholics board in 1947.) Public health?
Wool and sugar prices? Strikes?
Care of the aged? Unemployment? Can the State alone save a man from the effects of liquor, unemployment, old age, poor health? We should recognize that, although the State can assist in solving these problems, and that it may 63 provide the primary solution for many of them, the fact remains that there are certain fundamental limits to the scope of everything. For example, men, history shows, can and will resist the State. As discussed in earlier pages, we have seen that God recognizes the liberty or free agency of men and will "force no man to heaven." So, a sound political doctrine, even if it deifies the State (as certain modern political doctrines do), should recognize that the State as State or the State even as "god," has limitations! Any scientific observation known to man recognizes that any principle of science operates within limits. But some men, rejecting a rational God who respects men's own personalities, and wanting to substitute therefor "'a sure thing," rush pellmell into the arms of not only the State but other equally misleading panaceas. As one having some experience with a_ well-established State function, public education, I know that the State cannot of itself force education! It can provide the best of schools, classrooms, books, and teachers.
Some who attend will use their "liberty" to gain educational advantage.
Others will show little more than the effects of exposure to all the resources the State may mobilize, educationally, on the student's behalf—including teachers who will collectively exhaust the tricks of the trade, known and unknown, to "reach" and stir up desire for self-action on the part of the student.