[GO ELECTRIC ALL THE WAY Electricity does all the household tasks better and at lower cost than any other method. UTAH POWER «& LIGHT CO. 1882-1949 67 years ago on January 16, 1882 (His 27th birthday) Joseph Wm. Taylor, eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started in the mortuary profession under his own name, after his return from a mission to the British Isles. Prior to that he had been associated with his father who was the Intermountain West's first mortician, appointed by President Brigham Young. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck]

GO ELECTRIC ALL THE WAY Electricity does all the household tasks better and at lower cost than any other method. UTAH POWER «& LIGHT CO. 1882-1949 67 years ago on January 16, 1882 (His 27th birthday) Joseph Wm. Taylor, eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started in the mortuary profession under his own name, after his return from a mission to the British Isles. Prior to that he had been associated with his father who was the Intermountain West's first mortician, appointed by President Brigham Young. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City those dependent on her, he drove a team of oxen in a pioneer Company to the Salt Lake Valley before he was ten. His mother died when he was thirteen and at the age of fifteen he went on a mission to Hawaii which lasted three years. He later filled other missions to both Great Britain and Hawaii. In 1866 he was ordained to the apostleship and became a member of the Council of the Twelve in 1867. Between his various missions, he served as a member of the City Council of Salt Lake. It was largely due to his efforts that Salt Lake City acquired both Liberty and Pioneer Parks, which survive as lasting memorials to his foresight. Because of his strong testimony, sound judgment, and devotion to the cause of the Lord, President 'Taylor called him to be his second Counselor in 1880 and soon after, because of persecution, President Smith chose to retire from public life with other members of the Presidency. President Taylor sent him to Hawaii where he remained for some time. It was while there that he learned of and procured for publication the manuscript of Solomon Spaulding which had for more than a half century been proclaimed by enemies of the Church as the original of the Book of Mormon. The subsequent publication and its later deposition in Oberlin College Library, exploded the myth of the Spaulding origin of the Book of Mormon. Returning to Utah, he was with President Taylor when he died. President Woodruff, hoping that something could be done to influence the federal government in its treatment of the Church, sent President Smith to Washington, D. C.