[President Belle S. Spafford Elected to Office in the National Council by Priscilla L. Evans]

President Belle S. Spafford Elected to Office 'n the National Council of Women Priscilla L. Evans Former Relief Society General Board Member and former Corresponding Secretary, National Council of Women—1938-1948- ITH the election of President Belle S.
Spafford to the office of third vicepresident of the National Council of Women of the United States, at the biennial meeting of the Council held in New York City on November 10th, 1948, recognition has again come to the women of the Church and to the great Relief Society organization over which Sister Spafford now presides. She will assume this added responsibility with capacity and with dignity.
Wise in counsel, frank and sincere, friendly, tolerant, and with rich organizational experience, Sister Spafford will be warmly welcomed into the deliberations of the Council's board of directors. It is an interesting experience, and one greatly to be desired, to meet intimately with the strong leadership of the women's organizations from all parts of the United States—women of integrity, of high ideals, and great moral strength, all with the common purpose of improving the status of women the world over.
From the time of President Zina D. H. Young, under whose administration the Relief Society joined the National Council of Women, to the present day, women representing the membership of the Relief Society have been active in Council affairs, serving as officers  and as members of the executive committee of the board of directors and also as members of the standing committees of the Council. 'Their 'fluence has been salutary and many close friendships have been developed. 'Today the Relief Society and its officers and representatives are held in the highest esteem. On behalf of the women of the Relief Society in all lands we €xtend congratulations to President Spafford and wish for her success and satisfaction in this assignment. The National Council of Women is a voluntary association of self governing national organizations through which is made possible an interchange of ideas, experiences, and factual information on 4 nation-wide scale. It was founded in the year 1888 and at this first meeting, the Relief Society was repre.
Sented by Emily S. Richards.