[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Susan]
[Susan Hunter]
Valentine  for  Susan 
Doiothy  Oakley  Rea 
4  4  /^  RANDMA,  do  you  think  served  through  thin  hps,  as  she  bit 
I    -IT  Fm  pretty?"  the  thread  from  the  dress  she  was 
^-^      Susan  Gray  didn't  turn  hemming, 
to  look  at  her  grandmother  as  she  She  tried  to  sound  unconcerned, 
asked  the  question.    She  continued  but  she  had  hurried  with  the  new 
to  stare  into  the  mirror  at  the  wide  velvet  in  case  Fred  should  ask  Su- 
mouth,  the  smooth,  high  forehead,  san  for  the  prom.    A  heart-shaped 
and   the   deep-set,   blue   eyes   that  corsage  of  violets  and  roses  would 
stared  back  at  her.  have  been  so  pretty  at  the  shoulder. 
''Of  course  I  think  you're  pretty."  Cordelia   Gray   had   wanted   the. 
Grandma   Cordelia   Gray   squinted  best  of  everything   for  her  grand- 
to  thread  her  needle.   ''All  grand-  daughter.     It  wasn't  exactly  selfish 
mothers  think  their  granddaughters  to  want  it  that  way,  she  felt.  It  was 
are  pretty.    Susan,  do  you  think  you  more  like  wanting  to  make  up  for 
are  pretty?"  the  ways  in  which  Susan  had  been 
"No,"     Susan    said    flatly,    and  forced  to  take  short  measure, 
plopped  into  the  big  chair  in  front  As    when    Susan's    mother    had 
of   the  old   fireplace.     She  looked  died  after  Steve,  Susan's  father,  had 
into  the  fire,  remembering  that  in  spent  all  he  could  earn  or  borrow 
her  seventeen  years  she  had  lighted  trying  to  fight  the  ravages  of  her 
many  pine   wood   fires   and   loved  leukemia. 
each   one  a   little   more   than   the  Steve  had  procured  a  good  engi- 
last.  neering  job  in  South  America  after 
"It's  not  that  I  mind  not  being  his   wife   had   died.     He    couldn't 
as  pretty  as  Marie  Woods.    She  is  take  the  baby  daughter  with  him, 
put  together  perfect  as  a  Dresden  so  he  had  left  her  with  his  mother, 
doll.      It's   the   Valentine    I    really  who  had  felt  so  inadequate  when 
care  about.  Grandma."  she  had  looked  at  the  tiny  fluff  of 
"The  Valentine?     I  thought  you  a  girl,  delicate  as  a  pink  shell, 
put  Valentine   notions   away  with  Cordelia  hadn't  had  a  daughter, 
your  last  doll  a  few  years  ago."  She  was  widowed  when  Steve,  her 
"I  don't  mean  those  silly  Valen-  only  son,   was   ten  years   old.   She 
tines  we  liked  in  grade  school.     I  had  sold  the  farm,  keeping  only  the 
mean  like  those  heart-shaped  cor-  family  garden  and  the  house  that 
sages   of   roses   and   violets   at   the  her  husband  had  built  on  the  lower 
corner  florists.     I  saw  Fred  Miller  acre. 
go  in  there,  and  while  I  was  sort  of  They  had  planned  for  a  big  fam- 
standing  by  the  door,  I  heard  him  ily.    The  house  had  three  bedrooms 
order  one  for  Marie."  huddled  under  the  sloping  roof  up- 
"I  guess  that  means  he  will  be  stairs,  and  there  was  the  big  bed- 
taking    Marie    to    the    Valentine  room  next  to  the  parlor, 
prom,"     Grandma     Cordelia  •   ob-  Cordelia  had  taught  in   the  vil- 
Page  92

VALENTINE  FOR  SUSAN 
93 
lage  schoolhouse  in  those  years 
when  she  had  saved  enough  to 
send  Steve  to  engineering  school. 
She  had  baked  bread,  cakes,  and 
pies  for  ten  famihes  in  Newfield, 
and  with  Dan's  insurance,  she  and 
Steve  had  been  able  to  take  a  prop- 
er place  in  their  community.  They 
had  always  been  offering  the  big 
house  for  fireside  meetings  or 
parties. 
CTEVE'S  boyhood  had  been  hap- 
py here,  and  when  he  went  away 
to  college,  he  had  had  as  much 
money  as  most  young  men,  and  just 
as  many  of  the  belongings  that  col- 
lege youths  considered  important
