[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
LESSON DEPARTMENT Alma did more than call people to repentance. He gave them his personal testimony that Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten of the Father, should come to earth and atone for the sins of every man who would repent and believe in him. Infusing this testimony into the hearts of his people, was the most powerful means he had at his command to get them to repent and do works of righteousness, following the Good Shepherd, Jesus Christ. Alma Preaches to People in Gideon After this beginning to establish the order of the Church in Zarahemla (Alma 7:4), and after having ordained priests and teachers to preside and watch over the Church, he went to the valley of Gideon to continue his reform movement. He complimented them on being "in the paths of righteousness." He told them that the time was not far distant when the Redeemer would come and live among his people in a tabernacle of flesh. He said: And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem which is the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea even the Son of God (Alma 7:10). Alma called upon non-members of the Church to cast aside their sins. He also warned them that God cannot dwell in unholy temples and urged them after baptism to walk blameless before him. He warned: And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and. Gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the com- 127 mandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive. And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:23-24). Having established the order of the Church in Gideon, as he had in Zarahemla, Alma returned to his own home to rest. Alma Preaches to People of Melek In the tenth year of the reign of the judges, Alma went to the land of Melek, west of the river Sidon. These people were responsive to his message and came to him throughout all the land of Melek for baptism. Alma Journeys to Ammonihah When he had finished his work at Melek, Alma entered Ammonihah. These people were wicked, and they would not hearken to his message. They "reviled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he should be cast out of their city," saying: We know that because we are not of thy church we know that thou hast no power over us; and thou hast delivered up the judgment-seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief judge over us (Alma 8:12). Weighed down with sorrow and anguish of soul, Alma started for the city of Aaron. But he did not reach that city, for an angel of the Lord appeared to him and said: Blessed art thou, Alma; therefore, lift up thy head and rejoice, for thou hast great cause to rejoice; for thou hast been faithful in keeping the commandments of God from the time which thou receivedst thy first message from him. Behold, I am 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 he that delivered it unto you (Alma 8:15). This angel instructed him to return to Ammonihah and foretell the destruction of the people except they repented. Built up in his faith and knowing that God was pleased with his work, Alma returned speedily to the land of Ammonihah. As he entered the city, hungry and tired,, he met a man whom he asked for something to eat. 'This man said to Alma: I am a Nephite, and I know that thou art a holy prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an angel said in a vision: Thou shalt receive (Alma 8:20). This man, Amulek, became AIma's missionary companion. 'Together they were to preach repentance to the people of Ammonihah. God strengthened them and they had power given to them so they could not be confined in dungeons or slain. And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and power which the Lord had given them (Alma 8:32). Questions for Discussion 1. Why did Alma consider priestcraft dangerous? Discuss priestcraft as set forth in Alma 1:3; and 2 Nephi 26:29. 2. Why was Alma concerned about the efforts of Amlici to become king? 3. How does iniquity in our Church serve as a stumbling block to those outside the Church? 4. How industrious was Alma in the service of God? 5. What can we learn from this lesson conceming the solution of our national problems? (siting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 24—" Seek Not to Counsel the Lord, But to Take Counsel From His Hand. For Behold, Ye Yourselves Know That He Counseleth in Wisdom, and in Justice, and in Great Mercy, Over All His Works" (Jacob 4:10). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 4, 1954 Objective: To stress the wisdom of adherence to the counsel of God. FTEN we attempt to counsel the Lord, though perhaps we do not realize we are doing so. We tell the Lord what to give us, we beseech, plead, almost demand certain blessings, or special help from difficulties we are in, without remembering that he knows, far better than we, what is best for us. In Mosiah (chapter 4, verse 9), King Benjamin says: "... Man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend." If we are always aware of this fact, then, when we petition the Lord for blessings and aid, we will say to him in substance, "Heavenly Father, we desire this blessing very much, but thou knowest what is best for us. We will accept thy decision and thy will." A young woman was critically injured in an automobile accident. When friends called to express the LESSON DEPARTMENT hope that she would recover, her father said, "We are asking our Heavenly Father that she recover, but we are bowing to his greater wisdom to do what is best." Our role in seeking divine aid is to ask in sincerity and faith for the things which we desire and which we truly feel would be for our good, and then to leave the decision to our Father in Heaven. Elder Matthew Cowley has said, "Let us live worthy of the things we pray for, and pray for the things we are worthy of" (General Conference, April 1952). 'The matter of worthiness is also to be considered. In viewing the marvelous works of the Lord, surely we acknowledge his supreme power. We recognize the order and precision with which he governs the forces of the universe. How, then, can we doubt that he knows the needs of his sons and daughters? To argue against the Lord's counsel or to look for excuses for not: following it, is very unwise. Some may say, "I believe I can keep the 129 Sabbath day by driving up the canyons amid the beauties of nature just as well as by attending meetings." But the Lord has counseled, even commanded, "Thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (D. & C. 59:9). 'There should be wholehearted acquiescence by his children and a great feeling of gratitude for being so instructed. To accept counsel from the hand of the Lord means also to accept the counsel of his authorized representatives. The Lord does not come to each one of us personally with counsel; but he gives instruction through his authorized servants. In the Doctrine and Covenants he tells us: "... Whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same" (D. & C. 1:38). Willingness to accept counsel from recognized authority is not a sign of weakness; on the contrary, it is a sign of great understanding and wisdom. "... To obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22).

Work ITleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting ) Lesson 8—Spending Your Health Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, May 11, 1954) "6 Goer health is something people appreciate most when they don't have it." Buying good health is not the same as spending money for food, clothing, and shelter. These needs can be budgeted because their costs are constant. However, health and medical costs are uncertain and unpredictable. For this reason, the cost of ill health is, for most families, the hardest of all expenditures to meet. The average family spends about 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 five per cent of its income for medical and dental care. It may claim as much as one hundred per cent, thus completely upsetting the economic stability of the family, unless a reserve fund has been built up for this purpose. Money spent wisely for the preservation of health pays bigger dividends than does any other kind of investment. In setting up a budget — for family health, it ls well to plan for costs relative to the preservation of it. Prevention is as a rule cheaper than cure. Medical care is only one factor in keeping the individual and the family in a good state of health. 'The best medical service cannot be successful unless the patient has suitable food, good housing, adequate recreation, practices simple rules of hygiene, and is reasonably free from emotional anxieties. Our attitudes and practices with respect to these things are all important to healthful living. If all would observe the adage "don't let fatigue catch up with you,' millions of health dollars could be saved each year. Often those persons who do not have time for short rest periods, end up spending long periods in complete "rest," either at home or in a hospital. Even the best medicine is an expensive substitute for good food. The most economical places to spend your health dollars are at the butcher shops, grocery stores, fruit and vegetable gardens, rather than drugstores. There is no justification whatever for the widespread use of vitamin pills. 'They supply materials that are readily and generously available in a well-rounded diet. Infants, small children, and persons unable to eat all foods required by the body, are exceptions. Their diets may need to be supplemented with certain vitamins. Act on the advice of your family doctor in this regard. This is the advice of Dr. Maxwell M. Wintrobe, Head of the College of Medicine, University of Utah. Being prepared for emergencies by having a good first-aid book and a complete first-aid kit handy has saved many families thousands of dollars. Regard them as necessities in your home and provide a first-aid kit suitable to your family's need. Life-long illness or even death is too often the price paid for neglect of one kind or another. For example, a large percentage of cancer is curable if detected in time, and nearly one hundred per cent of tuberculosis is curable if treated early. Practices that contribute to one's general good health, aid dental health, also. It has been estimated that at least one-third of all dental troubles could be prevented if we would brush the teeth correctly at least twice each day, preferably after each meal, eat the right foods, and have a dental checkup every six months. Make special effort each day to include in the diet some raw or crisp food, such as lettuce, celery, carrots, cabbage, fruits, hard toast, or bread crusts. They cost less than do dental bills that are likely to result, if these foods are not eaten. "All persons would benefit from the standpoint of general health and especially dental health by keeping the consumption of confections and sweetened beverages to a minimum," advises the Council on Den- LESSON DEPARTMENT tal Health of the American Dental Association. Regardless of what one does to safeguard health, medical assistance is needed sooner OF later by most of us. Membership in a reliable health insurance plan will help mect expenses that might otherwise place a severe hardship on the family purse. Prepayment 15 usually less costly and easier to bear than post payment. In considering such a plan make sure you understand all the provisions 10 the policy. Do you know how much the sedatives and pain killers you bought last year cost your? Chances axe, more than was necessary, if you let advertised brands influence your choice. 'The same product may cost four or five times more under a widely advertised name than one less known. SO long as USP ot NF appears on the label you are assured of a safe product. It has been estimated that more than four hundred million dollars is spent annually by Americans for patent medicines. Some of this huge sum is spent on drug products that are dangerous to health, or virtually worthless for the ailment treated. Some of these cure-alls contain 4 coal-tar. Derivative that, say medical authorities, Cat seriously. Affect the 131 heart. Furthermore, since pain ls considered a warning, and if only pain is relieved, a disease may gO undetected until a cure is extremely costly, if not impossible.