[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: 70 But Then, There's Still Nothing Over the Man of Many Friends Stephen L Richards]
nothing; your bill will be due later. It is not necessary to purchase a book every month — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership. All selections are new, complete, well-printed and well-bound. And your books will be delivered to your door—ready to read! Save Up to 60% The purchase of books from the Club for only $1.89 each—instead of $3.00 to $4.00 in the publishers' original cditions—saves you from 35% to 50% on each book you accept. In addition, the Family Reading Club distributes an outstanding biography, reference hook or inspirational work as a free te Please send me at once the three books I have checked at the right as my two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book offered—at the specia) members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. SPECIAL NO-RISK GUARANTEE: If not delighted, I will return al books in 7 days and this membership will be canceled. Mr. MES ssssssssorensasesosscssronanssnconoonesesosesoscveasstsecsunvesiesesassusenysestavssesooreos#stne Miss (Please print) Street and No. Cit Yersascaces Zone. State Same offer in Canada. Address Family Reading Club (Canada), 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, Ont. Offer good only tin U. S. And Canada. THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD THE GREATEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN THE GREATEST FAITH EVER KNOWN (ALTERNATES) (J Hammond's Ailes (J The Lady of Arlington () Meta Given's Encyclopedia of Cooking