[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Seek Not to Counsel the Lord But to Take Counsel From His Hand" Leone O. Jacobs]
don. As  the  visiting  Queen  stepped 
ashore  at  Nukualofa,  it  began  to 
rain  once  more,  as  it  had  rained  at 
their  previous  meeting.  Both  queens 
smiled  broadly  as  Salote  opened  a 
large  green  umbrella  and  raised  it 
above  both  their  heads.  Salote's 
48,000  subjects  had  been  busy  for 
many  weeks  painting  the  royal  pal- 
ace, rehearsing  the  entertainment 
program,  making  arches  and  ban- 
ners, picking  pineapples,  preparing 
pigs  to  be  roasted,  and  drilling  the 
Royal  Tongan  MiHtary  Band. 
AT    the    thirty-second    National 
4-H  Congress,  held  in  Chicago 
in  November,  Margaret  Ann  Ash- 
ton  of  Provo,  nineteen  years  old, 
was  one  of  eight  to  win  $300  schol- 
arships from  Sears  Roebuck  Foun- 
dation. Her  national  prize  was  for 
home  improvement  —  making  a 
basement  storeroom  into  an  attrac- 
tive playroom.  Among  many  im- 
provements, she  upholstered  furni- 
ture, made  plywood  walls,  refinished 
a  piano,  made  bookcases,  tables,  a 
radio  case,  and  a  lamp  shade.  Wan- 
da Lee  Peacock  of  Price  received  a 
United  States  Savings  Bond  from 
the  Kellogg  Company,  Battle  Creek, 
Michigan,  as  a  health-improvement 
award. 
lyfRS.  Helen  Werner  Slocum  be- 
gan a  business  with  $2.50, 
which  now  grosses  $250,000  a  year. 
With  her  only  resources  a  second- 
hand trailer,  she  began  hauling 
boats  in  it  from  one  state  to  an- 
other, near  and  far.  Now  she  has 
many  employees  and  handles  a  fair 
share  of  the  nearly  5,000,000  small 
boats  in  this  country,  when  they 
require  dry-land  transportation. 
"I\7^E  extend  birthday  congratula- 
tions to  Mrs.  Clara  Fisher 
Samuels,  ninety,  formerly  of  Ver- 
nal, Uintah  County,  Utah,  now  a 
resident  of  San  Leandro,  California; 
and  Mrs.  Isabella  R.  Crafts  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  ninety-three  years 
old. 
Page  97