[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Cannon]
[The Wedding Gift Dorothy Cannon]

Steve was able to send plenty to live on, but not enough for extras. Even so, the Gray house had been a joyous place. Susan collected friends like a flower collects bees. They had invaded the house from bread-and-jelly kindergarten 93 days, right up to now, when they gathered around the old diningroom table with their lessons or popped pop corn and listened to name bands on the radio. Susan had her share of boy friends, but she could see only Fred Miller. Cordelia wasn't sure just what Susan saw in the boy. She thought he talked in a strange manner. Often when he and Susan were listening to the radio, he would say, "Dig that crazy tune." What was that supposed to mean? Cordelia wondered. His hair was another thing that was puzzling. A year ago he had worn it long behind with a wave at each femple. Now, when he came over in the evening, Cordelia noticed it was barely an inch long and stood up on his head like a brush. "That's a butch haircut, Grandma. All the boys have them," Susan explained. "It's a fad like when I wore my hair in a pony tail." Cordelia put the last stitch in the facing at the neckline of the new velvet dress. "You needn't have hurried with the dress, Grandma. I won't be going to the Valentine prom. It's tomorrow night, you know, and I haven't been asked." 'There was the slightest quiver in the young voice that tried to sound nonchalant. "Harry Daniels would take you if you would even look his way," Grandma ventured. "It isn't honest to be nice to a boy just to get a date when you don't especially enjoy his company. You said that, Grandma." 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 Cordelia smiled. She had tried to teach this lovely granddaughter some of the social graces. Now she found herself forgetting them in her anxiety for Susan's happiness. HE next day was Saturday and Valentine's. If Susan was grieving about the prom, she gave no sign. She arose early, put on a plain blouse and flowered skirt, and gave the house a real cleaning. She put a fresh bowl of apples on the dining-room table and pine nuts in the brass bowl on the mantle. In the early afternoon she lighted a fire and sagged into the big chair with a magazine, while Cordelia got ready and went marketing. There was a high blue sky on the afternoon of St. Valentine's Day. Melting snows clung to the shady places, but the sidewalks were dry. Cordelia brushed away some leaves as she passed the garden fence. 'The violets were coming up, she noticed. Seeing the violets push up their green leaves made her think again of the corsage Susan had mentioned. "It seems to me that I love Susan as much as anyone loves her. Why shouldn't I send her a Valentine?" Cordelia was thinking. She walked a little faster with a little more color in her cheeks. There was the corsage in the florist's window—heart-shaped, with violets and roses. "Will you deliver one of those to Susan at my house?" she asked the florist. "Sure will, Mrs. Gray. We've delivered lots of them to the high school girls today." Cordelia paid for the flowers and hurried out onto the street. She shouldn't have bought the flowers, She thought. Now the florist will be wondering why some young man didn't order flowers for Susan. The girl was gone when Cordelia returned home. A note in her young scrawl was on the kitchen table. "Grandma, I've gone bike riding with Fred." "The nerve of him,' Cordelia muttered. "Susan is all right to take bicycle riding in the afternoon, but he takes another girl to the prom." Cordelia was glad the florist came with the flowers before Susan came home. It would be a shame to have Susan answer the door thinking the flowers might be from someone else. I was almost dusk. Cordelia laid out the pretty new velvet across the big chair. At the shoulder she fastened the fragrant heart of flowers. On the small white card she wrote, "Happy Valentine to Susan." Susan didn't go into the parlor when she came home. She ran straight upstairs, but not before Cordelia saw that her cheeks were as red as the sweater she wore. Notes of a popular tune drifted down the stairway and into the kitchen where Cordelia was trimming some Valentine cookies for supper. "Seems like that's the song Fred thinks is real crazy," Cordelia was remembering. When Susan came down in her old bathrobe and shaggy slippers, Cordelia knew for sure there was VALENTINE FOR SUSAN no date for the prom, but Susan looked surprisingly happy. When she finally stepped into the parlor she saw the dress and the corsage. She flung both arms around her grandmother. "What a wonderful Valentine surprise! I'll tell you what let's do, Grandma. You get all dressed up and so will I, then we'll sit by the fireplace and have a Valentine party for two." A little later Cordelia and Susan were settled in front of the fire. A waltz was being played on the radio, and the soft aroma of the corsage filled the room. Suddenly Cordelia arose and walked to the mirror. She peered at the gray hair and the aging face. "Susan, do you think I'm pretty?" She turned smiling. "Oh, yes, Grandma. I've always thought so. You are beautiful in that dress. I've never seen you wear it before, yet I'm sure it's not new... Because of the style." "It is very old and I am very old," Cordelia sighed. "When we were both much younger, I wore this dress on a Valentine's night. Your grandfather said I was pretty. We were married before the next Valentine's Day." For the next few hours, grandmother and granddaughter traveled back through the years. They looked through the album, and they went upstairs to the room where the trunks were stored. They looked at pictures of Cordelia in other days, pictures of Grandpa and Steve and 'Susan's mother. Pky Oar ie ey Bat. A > = INSTI ies o\- ~f lS yp 4502 SO ~~ ~ _ ' es] 27 95 They found an old Valentine with two angels holding a pink lace heart. Inside the heart it said, "Accept my undying love and devotion. To Cordelia from Dan." Back in the parlor, Susan sat on the arm of her grandmother's chair. "You lived in such a nice time when you were young," she said simply. "Any time is nice when you're young." Cordelia put her arm around Susan. "But Grandma, boys don't say things to girls now like Grandpa said about his undying love and devotion." As if to emphasize what she had said, Susan smiled and produced a crumpled piece of paper from her pocket. "This, in case you're wondering, is my Valentine from Fred. It says: Dear Susan, I hope you have a nice time even if we are not going to the prom together. I think you are real sharp and would like you to go with me to all the rest of the dances this year. The reason why I didn't ask you to go to the prom is that Marie asked me to take her, and because I work in her father's garage could I very well say no? Please ask Grandma to expect me for Sunday dinner. Yours truly, Fred. "I see what you mean," Cordelia smiled. "It is different from Granda's Valentine, but I guess it means practically the same thing. You see, I just remembered, Grandpa told me that night that he would like to come over to our house for Sunday dinner." ont Sixty, Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1894 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ZION AND THE RIGHTs OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NaTIons" UTAH SILK AT THE WORLD'S FAIR: The ladies of Davis County contributed a set of furniture (seven pieces) to the ladies reception room in the Utah Building, upholstered in home-raised silk, it was a sage green brocaded with a spray of wild sage, the color harmonizing with the other furnishings in the room.... The raising of the worm is a labor Which is extremely interesting, and to the womanly heart brings out a loving care and interest which makes it more than mere labor. —Margaret A. Caine of my composition.... Lilacs are one of my especial weaknesses, for they are associated with the earliest recollections of my child-life and school-girl history." I never see a lilac but it calls up tender memories connected with the past. And, if I may tell it, the lilac bush oft holds many a precious secret. —Aunt Em A FRAGMENT Thou call'st from out the deep recesses of my soul sweet sympathy. And all the while I feel a magic touch That brings such harmony of sight and sound And charity and love my bosom swell, With such intensity no tongue can tell And thy bright presence vivifies the spell; And I am treading on enchanted ground. —E. B. W. MUSIC IN UTAH: In the growth of civilization and the unfoldment of social development, music and her twin sister poetry take precedence of all the arts, and present an unmistakable index to national character. The pioneer settlers who crossed nent by singing the songs of Zion. The first musical organization formed in Utah was a brass band... Under the leadership of Captain William I 1857 City, and settled over Jordan where he taught the first singing school in the Terri. Tory.... In 1862 Professor Charles J. Thomas, who had for years been associated with some of the Principal theatre orchestras in London, came to Salt Lake City, and at once took charge of the orchestra at the new Salt Lake Theater. —Selected nature, typed with his New England sagacity, evinced consummate wisdom in supplying his people with the means of social and physical revivification, The weariness of travel, and the labor of making new homes, were enlivened by joyous music, familiar songs, with the merry dance and social ball.. The Projects of organizing a company with the combination of the musical and dramatic elements, received the hearty sanction of Brigham Young. —Selected Page 96 66 "THE Women of the Year 1953," as nominated by Major General William F. Dean of the United States Army, are the heroic army nurses who served in the Korean War. Among those who received particular mention were: Captain Iris Craig, Lieutenant Dorothy Devers, Lieutenant Lorna Wilson, and nurse Nancy Jones. UEEN Elizabeth II, during her tour of the Commonwealth nations in December 1953, was royally entertained by fifty-three-year-old Queen Salote Tupou of 'Tonga, who, last June, attended the coronation of Queen Elizabeth in London. As the visiting Queen stepped ashore at Nukualofa, it began to rain once more, as it had rained at their previous meeting. Both queens smiled broadly as Salote opened a large green umbrella and raised it above both their heads. Salote's 48,000 subjects had been busy for many weeks painting the royal palace, rehearsing the entertainment program, making arches and banners, picking pineapples, preparing pigs to be roasted, and drilling the Royal Tongan Military Band. A! The thirty-second National 4-H Congress, held in Chicago in November, Margaret Ann AshM>**-.

§ Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ton of Provo, nineteen years old, was one of eight to win $300 scholarships from Sears Roebuck Foundation. Her national prize was for home improvement — making a basement storeroom into an attractive playroom. Among many improvements, she upholstered furniture, made plywood walls, refinished a piano, made bookcases, tables, a radio case, and a lamp shade. Wanda Lee Peacock of Price received a United States Savings Bond from the Kellogg Company, Battle Creek, Michigan, as a health-improvement award. Helen Werner Slocum bean a business with $2.50, which now grosses $250,000 a year. With her only resources a secondhand trailer, she began hauling boats in it from one state to another, near and far. Now she has many employees and handles a fair share of the nearly 5,000,000 small boats in this country, when they require dry-land transportation. E extend birthday congratulations to Mrs. Clara Fisher Samuels, ninety, formerly of Vernal, Uintah County, Utah, now a resident of San Leandro, California; and Mrs. Isabella R. Crafts of Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-three years old. Page 97 Q-> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 


 Sorgetting Self ' High on the rocky battlements of a ridge in the Black Hills of South Dakota, four faces have been carved in lasting stone as a memorial to four great Americans whose strength, discipline, and foresight directed the building and the extension of American constitutional government. 'They laid the structural steel of freedom and built the shining towers of liberty. Of them it may be said that "more than self their country loved... And mercy more than life." The faces carved in stone on that high wall are the faces of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, and Theodore Roosevelt. 'The lines and the lineaments of the faces reveal integrity and vision, courage and contemplation — qualities which have made the thoughts and the actions of these men live each day in America, and in the thoughts and dreams of many statesmen throughout the world. Let it be said of Washington, as we think of him in this month of February, that he evidenced in his own life that high integrity of purpose which places the self as the servant of others, as a builder for a more lasting monument than personal pleasure or satisfaction. He dearly loved his home — the broad acres of Mount Vernon, the great river, and the columns of his house, the association of his family. But he endured the long struggle, the bitter cold of embattled winters, Page 98 the despair of many failures — enduring that which he believed was temporary in the hope of establishing that which would be of lasting worth. "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can reair,' Washington said. ""The event is in the hand of God." And what of Thomas Jefferson, who had written the Declaration of Independence, and who wielded the tools of a master in building the structures which preceded the framing of the Constitution? Jefferson was acting as minister to France during the drafting and the signing of that document. However, the lasting wisdom and breadth of his views, and the uncompromising honesty of his personality made a deep imprint upon the design of government. Although he wished to grant the fullest liberty which they might be capable of exercising to all people, still he was determined to safeguard the written law and to uphold the legally established codes. "In questions of power," Jefferson wrote, "let no more be said of confidence in man, but bind him down from mischief... By the Constitution." Well known and well loved, the introspective face of Lincoln is sober and brooding, yet kindly and even magnificent in its expression of love and tenderness. 'Through an era of crisis and tragedy, Lincoln moved as one dedicated to a great cause. Forgetting the disappoint- EDITORIAL ments and despait of his own life, he visioned the 'deal of freedom extended throughout the land. Forgetting self, by the very splendor of his leadership, he shaped the forces which "a thoroughfare for freedom beat across i. Has imparted to them a beacon in times of spiritual darkness. The great man sees beyond the restric' ds and desires. He sees the fundamental concepts which are ageless and forever imerative. Ber," said Lincoln, the law is to trample on the blood of his father, and to teat the charter of his ow? And his children's liberty." Most. Recent of the four great statesmen Upol the stage of Ametican life, Theodore Roosevelt ( become a symbol of the congratulations to 1945: In October 1953 ground-breaking ceremony sisters remembered with gratitude the inspirational service W Lyman has so willingly and so graciou i 99 the extension of American influhe who saw 4 greater use for the waterways, reclamation janes world. Industrial growth in the nation an development of the resources of the territories, still Theodore Roosevelt never lost sight of the roof of liberty—the Constitution, and he was ever alert to detect and deter any encroachment upon the firm pillars © overnment. He was one who helped to make possible a country "beautiful. - - for amber waves of ovain. + for purple mountain majesties above the fruited plain. The faces of monument in t and protection of our edifice of. 'constitutional government. Ho has devotedly served the organization in many capacities, and who became general president in 1940, Minor White WINTER PATTERNS NEAR ANTHONY LAKES, OREGON Page 100 For Such As Shis Pansye H. Powell One life is not enough, for I could spend Ten thousand years beside a mountain brook To hear its quiet murmuring and look Upon its pearl-fringed ripples. I could bend In daily reverence where aspens send Their whispered prayers to heaven, where the book Of nature lies wide open, though it took A thousand lifetimes, read it to the end; For who can see the winter sunlight cast Its purple shadows on the mountain snow Nor want this scene again? Or feel the kiss Of tender rain nor wish to hold it fast? Life is too urgent in the time we know Eternity must be for such as this! The Right Touch Cecil Pugmire bodice, Mother, and it will be perfect!" cried Sue. The right touch! Rebelliously thought Sarah. The very words her sister-in-law Alice had so glibly used yesterday, when she had knocked Sarah's plans for the trip right into oblivion.