[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: Home Gardening]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson VII. "For the seed shall be prosperous; the vine shall give her fruit, and the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their due and I will cause the remnant to this people to possess all these things."  Zech. :8:12.
May we hope the above quotation has been literally fulfilled, that our yields of both gardens and fields have been most bounteous and fruitful, that in sowing, and with proper cultivation on our own part, that nature has given to us all we could hope to have received?
And in this, as in all other gifts from our Creator, we are thankful and appreciative of the same.
It is now time, even in the midst of harvest of this year's yields, to begin the preparation for another year of vegetables, fruits and flowers.
Fall Planting, or early planting of onion and spinach seeds, etc.
The preparation of soil as given in the March and April numbers of the Bulletin will also apply to the soil conditions for fall planting; only this difference: in planting, it should be remembered that the earth is now warmed to a greater depth, and the digging and plowing must of necessity be much deeper, also the planting of seed should be some deeper than in early spring.
Onions and spinach, planted sufficiently early to get a good start, and then properly protected, in extreme cold climates, will be ready to continue growing as soon as the warm days of spring come, and thus produce a good early harvest for family and market use.
We should begin preparation of tho soil and planting at once, in order to succeed for next spring's early productions.
Sweet Peas: Select for planting sweet peas seeds that are well ripened home grown ones are not usually satisfactory, ; unless great care has been taken to secure them from the best sturdy producers of bloom, and well ripened.
By trenching,
14 . filling with sandy soil well fertilized, plant on both side of trench, so that your trellis comes in the middle of the two rows, having plenty of sunlight and water.
The seeds will soon germinate and push through the soil.
When the cold, fall storms set in, cover them with leaves; by this they are well protected and have an early start for spring, and will give you rich returns, by having peas in bloom very much earlier than oy spring planting.
Pansies: Pansies may be treated in like manner as sweet peas, only in beds instead of trenches, and not so deep as pea seeds.
Pansies planted in August will be early bloomers.
Remember how even they must be covered with leaves, or some other suitable covering, in late fall.
If you will refer to March, April and May numbers of the Bulletin you will find tables for planting, also kinds of seeds to plant.
The "Little Giant" pansy seed is considered very fine.
Preserving, Pickling and Jelly-making: Preserving, pickling and jelly-making form an important part in the housewife's busy life, and should be done as far as possible by the adoption of scientific methods, in order that less time and fruit be wasted.
Sterilization by heat is the basis of the preservation of food to be bottled or canned.
The presence of bacteria is the cause of fermentation and decay.
Let us master this by properly cleaning, scalding and sterilizing all utensils, bottles and cans to be used, thus mastering the essential principles.
Fruits that are not quite ripe are better adapted for preserving, and especially for jelly-making, than over-ripe fruit.
All fruits should be freshly picked, and that of inferior quality should be discarded and used immediately.
To sterilize jars, have two pans partly filled with cold water, place jars in one, laying them on their sides, place covers or lids in the other pan now let them heat to boiling point, ; and let boil five or ten minutes.
Having attended strictly to this, we are now prepared to bottle our fruit.
Use only fresh rubbers it is poor economy to buy cheap; rubbers or use them a second time as a general rule black rubbers are more durable than white ones.
Jellies: Acid fruit is most suitable for jelly-making, though in some of the acid fruits there is but little of the substance called pectin, such as strawberries, which causes the fruit to jell, and the pectin must be in the right condition.
Such fruits as red currants, black currants, raspberries, strawberries, crabapples, quinces, grapes, etc., are most desirable for preserves and jellies.
For further information write U.
A.
College for Circular No. 25, Vol.
II, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers Bulletin 359.