[Vol3 | August 1916 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ESTHER. (Read the Story of Esther.) The "Book of Esther" is less popular than the "Book of Ruth," doubtless because its appeal is not so universal. The theme of the latter is personal loyalty that of the former is race loyalty. But the Jewish girl who followed her fortunes in a foreign land till she became the wife of the greatest monarch of her time is more of a character I do not say a better character than the foreign maiden who pursued her destiny into Palestine to reap in alien fields. Esther lived in what is known in Hebrew history as the Greek Period ?the most probably. She was of the latter part, dispersion, that is to say, her people were scattered over the face of the land, whither they had been driven by the armies of a heathen king. In those days Ahasuerus ruled over an empire of a hundred twenty-seven provinces. A voluptuous tyrant, proud of his greatness, as greatness went in those days, he was led by his princes to put away his wife, Vashti, merely because she refused to expose her beauty to an assembly of notables of the empire. In her stead he chose Esther, a Jewish maiden, probably without knowing that she was Jewish. A crisis came in the fortunes of her people during her queenship, with which the "Story of Esther" concerns itself. Haman, a vain, conceited man whom the king had placed above the princes of his realm, contracted a violent dislike for Mordecai, Esther's uncle, and through him for the entire Jewish population. So he induced the king to order all the Hebrews to be massacred, "all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day." And this monstrous crime would have been accomplished had it not been for the wit of Esther. At the suggestion of her uncle, Mordecai, she interceded with the king for her people. She invited the king and Haman to a special "banquet of wine," and in answer to the former's question, "What is thy petition, Queen Esther?" she said, "If I have found favor in thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request for we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain and to perish." The king inquired who had presumed in his heart to do this. In reply the queen pointed the accusing finger at Haman, "An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman." The result was that Haman was hanged on the gallows that he had had erected for Mordecai. Mordecai, partly through the influence of Esther and partly through an all but forgotten service he had performed for the king, was raised to Haman's power, the Jews were saved, and all ended happily. Esther was left an orphan. After the death of her parents, she fell to the care of her uncle, Mordecai, a shrewd man who knew when the tide was in. His niece "obtained favor in the sight of all them that looked upon her." It appears that, in addition to certain physical charms, she possessed a disposition that adjusted itself to circumstances with as little inconvenience as possible to others. "And the maiden pleased him," says the narrator, "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's household," "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's house. And he removed her and her maidens to the best place of the house of the women." Esther's character seems to be a compound of girlish dependence on sources outside herself, of womanly resource and mother-wit, and of a personal charm that won an easy place in the affections of those about her. Of this last quality I have already spoken. It remains to speak of the other two. All through the narrative it appears that she relies for initiative on the experienced wisdom of her uncle. She is obedient to his every suggestion. When she is first taken into the king's palace, she does not show "her people nor her kindred" for "Mordecai had charged her not to show it." And even after she had been made queen and was loved by the king "above all the women," she "did the commandment of Mordecai, like as when she was brought up with him." Later, when the decree was issued against the Jews, and Mordecai suggested that she should "make supplication unto him and make request before him for her people," she was distrustful of her power. She requested Mordecai to "gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan," to fast for her three days, and "I also and my maiden will fast in like manner," Once, however, she senses the danger to her people and her power of delivering them, she becomes suddenly courageous and resourceful. "All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces," she tells her uncle, "do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law for him, that he be put to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live." Nevertheless, she stoically accepted the risk. "I will go in unto the king," she adds, "which is not according to the law and if I perish, I perish." She entered the king's presence, and he extended the golden sceptre to her. To his question, "What wilt thou?" she answered evasively, "If it seem good unto the king, let the king and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him." But even then she, whether out of fearfulness or out of a desire to whet his curiosity, withheld her request in her people's behalf, and begged him to come to a second banquet with Haman. It was at this second feast that she revealed to her royal spouse the evil plot of the aspiring Haman. The immediate result of Esther's revelation of this man's dealings was that Haman was put out of the way. It remained for a second visit to the king by Esther to induce him "to reverse the letters devised by Haman" against the Jews. So Mordecai, who had by this time been given Haman's place, sent letters to all the provisional governors annulling the order issued to destroy the Hebrews. The queen, however, was not satisfied with this mere reversal. She wished for severer measures. Said Esther, when the king told her what the Jews had done to their enemies at Shushan, "If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews which are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows," which the king ordered done. The character of Esther stands out in that inimitable and effortless way peculiar to the writers of the Bible, and is drawn with the few fresco strokes which is the envy of modern novelists. She is not the domestic woman that Ruth is nor yet a Judith devoting herself to one bold deed rather is she the eternal woman, making use of her charms and her wit to plan by a series of stayed battles the salvation of a people to whom she is dedicated heart and soul. Nor is God left out of consideration, although His name does not occur in the whole story. Back of it all, however, is a religious atmosphere, an inexpressible something, that implies that God has a chosen people, that Israel is isolated, and that the Father is still caring for His people in the hollow of His hand. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is Ruth a more popular Biblical character than Esther? 2. Who was Esther? 3. Compare and contrast at as many points as you can the character of Ruth and Esther. 4. What do you think of Esther's obtaining the king's consent for the Jews to be massacred? 5. Point out the things in Esther that differ from our ideals today; those that agree with ours. 6. In what respects do those times differ from ours?