A PLEASANT JOURNEY
------
	OFF on the Union Pacific at 6 p.m. off
in a rush and a whirl with scarcely time to
grasp the hands of our loved ones and bid
them a hasty farewell. On this particular
occasion the train seemed to start before any
one was ready, and such scrambling I never
witnessed before, some running to get on and
many trying to get off the train, and for a
time there was a conflict of the emotions
between the saddening sensations of parting
and the somewhat comical and exciting
manoeurves of those who feared they would
be left and those who were liable to leave
home thus uncerimoniously. But a few
moments sufficed to restore equillibrium, and
very soon with lightning-like rapidity we
are flying as on the wings of the wind,each
moment taking us farther from our loved
ones, away from our mountain home and
the sacred associations and the sweet and
peaceful scenes of our childhood. The sad-


[Column 1]

﻿dening almost sickening depression of our
departure was intensified by evening's deep-
ening gloom. Dusky shadows crept close-
ly upon us, enveloping with sombre mantle
the forms of our fellow-passengers. But
ere long the brilliant electric light sent
forth its cheering rays and we endeavored to
collect our thoughts while the brain kept
time to the monotone of human voices, and
the grinding of iron wheels; occasionally we
were started from our reverie by the shrill
voice of the iron horse as it galloped fierce-
ly along through hamlet and City, over
valley and plain now toiling up the moun-
tain side and again winding through the
canyon gorgelong after we were snugly
tucked in our berths did the tempestuous
whirlings of the brain endeavor to keep
pace with the swiftly moving train.
	At last weary nature found repose we
slept till the morning dawned, and as we
looked from our windows,what a transition.
No longer could we behold the fertile fields
and waving trees of the land of our choice—
only barren hills and plains with an oc-
casional glimpse of a railroad town to break
the monotony. As we gaze we retrospect—
and remember that travelers in this region
did not have even these oaseses to greet them
in their weary pilgrimage—methinks I see
even now the old covered wagons with one
two or perhaps three yoke of oxen and their
faithful drivers tramping along-side So of-
ten exhausted and foot-sore but always un-
complaining and cheerful, the good wife
sitting in the front end of the wagon sew-
ing or knitting while several children amus-
ed themselves in their narrow home over
the rough unbroken roads. Along the
narrow defiles up the steep mountain side
and oftimes fording the deep swift run-
ning stream—slowly tediously plodding day
after day, sometimes traveling only thirty
miles or less from early morn till close of
day and oftimes a whole week of such days
would pass without even a glimpse of hu-
man habitation.
	Denver is the first city of any moment,
but as we stop but a few minutes there is
no time for sight-seeing.
	Just before reaching Kansas City we pass
through more fruitful scenes and we begin
to see wherein man might make a comfor-
table livlihood by tilling the soil, and our
tired eyes are rested by sight of bountiful
crops of corn and trees loaded with autumn
fruits. In Kansas City we find, that ever-
pervading rush and bustle with perhaps on
this occasion a little additional, for the City
is astir with recent Fair matters. One
rather amusing incident that seemed to be
attracting considerable attention was an
immense ox hitched to a cart, the animal
wearing a fancy head-dress of many color-
ed ribbons and driven by a grey haired
negro.
	Here too we see forcible examples of the
marvelous power of electricity as we see
the cars glide so gently, and without any
perceptible effort up the steepest hillside.
After a short rest and with replenished lunch
baskets we are once more aboard the train
and rushing on to the next important land
mark of our journey the far famed Chicago!
Who would think in contemplating this
Mammoth City with its glorious monu-
ments to men's genius and industry that
it, so brief a time since, was mostly a heap
of blackened ruins, laid low by the fiery
dragon. One would almost think that only
fairy fingers could in so short a space of time
remove all traces of devastation and erect
these collossal structures of modem architec-

[Column 2]

ture; and now we have added to these won-
ders, the marvelous "World's Fair Building;"
The average human mind stands in awe while
contemplating these vast piles of wood, stone
and mortar arranged in rugged and still
symmetrical forms. Truly a study for the
most aesthetic soul.
	Those who have visited Chicago need no
description of the crowded thoroughfares
and the throngs of crushing, hurrying human-
ity. In being transferred from the C. and
A. to the Chicago and Great Western, our
driver in his desire to gain time, attempted to
get ahead of other teams; this proved
a sad mistake for himself and passengers, as
well as the long train of vehicles following;
for forty-five minutes we were blockaded
and could not move an inch in either
direction—with this condition at the present
time under ordinary circumstances, what
can we expect a few months hence when
the great tide of humanity from all parts of
the world turn their faces toward the setting
sun. After a half day pleasantly employed
in sight-seeing, we board the train once
more, this time for our final destination.
	The suburbs of Chicago are no less inter-
esting than the quiet interior. The com-
modious farm-homes, green lanes, smooth
boulevards, and passing a little farther on,
Lake Michigan dashing high against the
shores, the white spray at times coming so
near that we can almost imagine we feel its
moisture on our brows.
	We reach Ann Arbor at 9,30 p. m. Satur-
day, too late to secure permanent quarters
so must submit to hotel fare until Monday
morning. For whatever the temptation
might be, or perchance even an apparent
necessity the good people of this Christian
and highly intelligent little City could not
countenance the breaking of the Sabbath
day. An example many of our home folks
would do well to follow. On this particu-
lar morning as we walked forth to find some
of our Utah friends a deep sense of peaceful
stillness seemed to prevail even the very
atmosphere, for scarcely a leaf stirred and
no sound greeted our ears save the occasion-
al ringing of the college bell which strikes
not only at the hour, but the half and the
quarter. Methinks no more gorgeous scene
could greet the eyes than that we beheld in
and around the campus—the gathering
places of the numerous brain workers of
far-famed Ann Arbor. The original plan of
the grounds is at once interesting, ingenious,
and beautiful. Asphaltum walks, smooth,
green lawns, and stately shade trees of great
variety the latter showing the venerableness
of time, and at present we might fancy the
touch of fairy fingers—or might it not be
the touch of divinity for what other Artist
could give these varied artistic colorings and
innumerable shadings of the luxuriant foli-
age; the maple predominates and its bright
yellow and crimson leaves with a back-
ground of dark evergreen, and here and there
the chestnut of lighter green and brown,
makesa picture on our mental vision never
to be forgotten.
	The campus grounds consist of two or
three square blocks and here are situated the
College buildings the central figures of inter-
est. The main University building though
quite commodious and well adapted for class
work is rather plain and common place, and
must have been built a long time ago, it is
four stories surmounted by a large dome
and of a peculiar greyish brown color, has a
large hall for state occasions and popular
lectures. There is also a large chapel 
where students are all invited to come and

[Column 3]

hear a scriptorial chapter every morning.
The remainder of the building is divided in-
to numerous rooms for class exercise princi-
pally for literary work, and even the
enumeration of the various branches taught
there, might be wearisome so we forbear. 
	The medical building also bears the traces
of time—a rather unpretentious building of
itself though a number of large Corinthian
pillars in the front give it an air of import-
ant dignity. This school occupies a high
plane in its facilities for medical knowledge,
many of the professors having world-wide
celebrity in their specialties of practice and
teaching, and in addition to these important
requisities they are perfect gentlemen show-
ing the most perfect courtesy and consider-
ation to women—giving the same oppor-
tunities to both sexes equally; but this is a
subject we wish to discuss in a future letter,
so we will pass on to the consideration of
the various halls of learning. There are
special buildings for practical Anatomy
Chemistry, Civil Engineering, a magnifi-
cent Museum and a grand old library.
These are all of more modern architecture
and finishing, the latter particularly being a
source of great convenience to students in
the various departments, it being free to all
every day in the week except Sunday of
course, and containing extensively ancient
and modern literature. One pleasing
feature connected therewith is the perfect
quiet and good order that is maintained by
the hundreds of students that are constantly
coming and going—coming here to spend a
few moments or hours as the case may be
before, between, or after classes, perhaps to
look up special points referred to during
the lecture or to prepare for a recitation yet
to come. Not upon the Campus proper
but just west across the street is a large
stone structure Newberry Hall or the School
of Music. A very wealthy lady, Mrs.
Newberry of Detroit, bequeathed a large
sum of money for its erection and it is cer-
tainly a very creditable monument to her
generosity.
	Ann Arbor may very appropriately be
called a College town, for without the Uni-
versity of Michigan it would be quite an
insignificant geographical feature. The
residences are nearly all frame structures
and apparently built for the accommodation
of students most houses containing a num-
ber of suites, a nice large study room, and a
bed-room or alcove separated by heavy
chenille curtains and nearly every home you
enter shows much taste and skill in the wo-
manly art of home decoration. And here
it seems to me the housewife's duties are
reduced to a minimum—very rarely do you
have to step on the ground, for board or
asphaltum walks extend around every block
and I don,t think I have seen mud or dust
since I left home so that one good sweep-
ing and dusting a week is sufficient to keep
rooms neat and tidy.
	There are some fine buildings on Main
Street the business part of the City especial-
ly the Court House on the steps of which,
the other day, we listened to a Democratic
speech from the candidate for Vice President
A. Stephenson.
	The weather here is simply charming;
a more delighiful October could not be well
imagined, until the last week we have been
very comfortable without wraps, and now it
is bright and clear, though the air is cold it is
bracing. There are at present four thous-
and students registered at the University so
you can well imagine the streets and cam-
pus present a lively appearance during the


school days of the week, the great majori-
ty of these students are young people but
occasionally we see a grey haired matron or
gentleman apparently as energetic and en-
thusiastic as the youngest and most
sprightly.
	Well I fear I have made this letter too
long already; I do not wish to weary you
as I have something more I want to say to
you in the future. With love to you our
dear president, and all the members of the
club; I am yours sincerely,
