A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

[Continued.]
	I always slept splendidly while on my
voyage, scarcely ever waking from the
time my head touched the pillow, until the
getting up bell sounded in the morning.
But the getting up, dressing and wash-
ing etc. was the performance that I did not 
enjoy. After a long and severe struggle
with myself I would conclude that it was
really time for me to leave my couch, or
sometimes Mrs. M. would come in to wish
me good morning, thus shaming me into 
leaving it, and I would forthwith proceed to
climb over the side of the berth on to the 
floor, where immediately, without any
effort whatever on my part, I was slid 
across the room to the little hard couch be-
fore mentioned, where my clothes were de-
posited, and if I was thoroughly awake and
ready for the sport, I might prove success-
ful in making a grab for them before slid-
ing back to the berth; but if perchance the
first time I made a misgrab, there was yet
another chance for me, as it would not be
more than a minute before I would find 
myself en route for the couch again, then to
the berth and then to the couch alternately.
	If my stomach had been in proper order,

[Column 2]
the performance might have been con-
sidered somewhat amusing, and I might 
perhaps have been fired with ambition to
become expert at dressing under trying cir-
cumstances, but as the matter stood, these
continued excursions back and forth, only
aggravated my condition, and I was obliged
every now and then to lie down during a 
number of these excursions. But even 
after the dressing part was accomplished,
it required a great deal of manoeuvering and 
holding on like grim death, to keep in one
place long enough to get washed; this
second performance completed a fresh start
must be made in order to get my hair
combed and twisted up in some style or
other, and after the whole fatiguing process
was gone through with, it required con-
siderable resolution to get upon deck in-
stead of giving in to the feeling of exhaus-
tion and lying down for an hour or two,
I always found my faithful companion 
waiting to offer his arm for a promenade 
when I put in an appearance on deck.
This refreshing exercise always produced
the desired effect, that of making me feel 
better. Whether rain or shine, calm or 
rough, a brisk promenade up and down the
deck, would never fail to revive us.
	All the passengers indulged in this exer-
cise and it was quite amusing to watch
them pair off two and two so long as the
ladies held out, but as there were more 
gentlemen than ladies, some of them must
necessarily be left without fair companions,
which fact caused a kind of rivalry between
them. 
	As the time passed on we became more
familiar with our fellow passengers; engag-
ing in conversation with some of them, and
learning bits of the biography of them all,
which proved to be quite interesting and 
altogether contained the necessary elements
of a modern romance.
	It has been observed by some wiseacre,
that "Truth is stranger than fiction," and
I am almost led to believe that it is verily
so.
	There was the young and apparently en-
thusiastic Baptist Minister who was bound
for a mission up the Congo river, I did not
envy him, tho' admiring his enthusiasm and 
devotion in the cause which he had es-
poused. Next, the stately sun-browned sea
captain who abstractedly paced the deck 
seemingly lost in meditation. We learned 
that his ship had been wrecked on the
Pacific ocean, his crew lost, while he himself 
barely escaped in a life boat to an island,
where he was forced to remain, like Robin-
son Crusoe, tho' happily not so long, until
a passing vessel should pick him up. He
had traveled across continent and was then
making his was homeward.
	Then there was the traveled English
gentleman whose roving propensities would
not permit him to remain contentedly at
home amid his family and friends in his 
native land far any length of time together.
He was then just fresh from Mexico, and
wore some odd Mexican arrangement made
of shell material which answered instead of 
an overcoat. He looked very dignified
with his grey hair and tanned skin, as he
too paced the deck, ever complaining of the
cold, while the rest of the passengers felt to 
rejoice as they basked in the warm rays of
the sun. There was also a young and in
his line, successful artist, who was return-
ing to home and mother in search of a heal-
ing balm to apply to a great wound lately
made by the one he had called wife.


She had eloped. with a, perhaps, "hand-
somer man," and not being satisfied with
leaving his bed and board, had endeavored
to wrest from the poor fellow, the greater
part of his worldly possessions, amounting
to $50,000.
	Of course we had only one side
of the story, and considering the circum-
stances, he certainly seemed remarkably
cheerfully and to all appearances enjoyed
himself as much as any one on board.
	We had also a very fair specimen of a
political sycophant, a mean groveling tool
used by any political schemer who would
reward his servility most liberally. At 
least this was the character deduced from
his own statements. He was on his way to
France, no doubt in the interest of some
scheme which would not bear the penetrat-
ing light of day upon it. His manner was
smooth and warm, greeting all the ladies
as if they were special friends.
	Another man was seeking the land of his
nativity to obtain if possible consolation for
the loss of his wife and five children who
had crossed the "Mystic River" but two 
months before, smitten by some epidemic
that had swept through New York.
	Next in order was the young English
dude after the Lord Dundreary style, who
was just returning from Florida where he
had lately superintended the setting out of 
an orange plantation. He also was the
happy posessor of a youthful crocodile with
which he often amused himself as well as 
some of the other passengers when he be-
come weary of the bar.
	Next to the dude, may be mentioned the
young Irishman with his wife and little son
whom they called Brewster. He was sup-
posed to be the younger son of an aristo-
cratic family, and though apparently possess-
ing not even ordinary attractiveness, he had
succeeded in procuring for his life's com-
panion, one of New York's heiresses, and
they were enroute for his estate in Ireland.
The ladies were a Miss S. who had been
visiting friends in America and was then
returning to her home in Scarsborough, to
her the good natured jolly Purser of the
boat paid his particular addresses, and the
political rogue when he had a chance.
	Mrs. B.—an ideal English woman with
plump rosy cheeks and splendid “sea legs”
as the captain would say, a picture of health
to all appearance but who nevertheless
posed as an invalid and was taking the
voyage for her health, with her high and
fiery tempered little daughter Elsie, who
cut up shines every once in a while.
	Miss E.—a young German girl from
New York, who had completely captivatee
the young Irish ship doctor, whose namd
was Fitzgerald; I found it highly amusing
to watch them from the corner of one eye,
as they indulged in their little tete a tetes
on the deck. Beside there was the consump-
tive man whose voyage terminated in the
great beyond; he was lowered in the mighty
deep.
	Captain Rigby, who hadn’t much to
say to any body, and the company of Mor-
mons consisting of five ladies and as many
gentlemen, completed the list of cabin
passengers. And doubtless our party fur-
nished as much food for reflection and cause
for amusement to the other passengers, as 
the said passengers furnished for us.


MISS FANNIE MITCHELL, of Athens, Ga.,
is writing a history of Athens during the civil
war.


