WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SAND-
WICH ISLANDS.
II
	WE procured a carriage at the wharf and
were on our way to the Branch President's
house, when a breakage in our vehicle
necessitated us trying our ability at pedes-
trianism in which we were successful, as
our attendants carried our luggage. It was
well we had prepared our minds for what-
ever we might have to endure else the ap-
pearance of our first stopping place might
have weakened our desire to continue on
our journey, knowing that this was the


[Column 1]

﻿largest and most modernly inhabited of any
village through which we were to pass—
but what was modern civilization to us at
that time; our visits were to those who have
been deprived of a knowledge of modern
improvements and who are content with
such comforts as nature herself provides.
And after carefully scanning the respective
corners of our bed in search of centipedes,
and feeling assured that mosquitoes would
be our worst torment (and we were told
that they were not bad in this district) we
enjoyed a sweet though short repose, feel-
ing grateful for such comfort as we were
receiving. The morning brought with it
rain instead of sunshine, which the natives
said, was like us, "a stranger" to the place;
but the heavens were pleased and showered
their blessings on the parched vegetation.
Our breakfast consisted of salt meat, onions
and poi, which we partook of gratefully if
not heartily, endeavoring to mold our fas-
tidious appetites to whatever was provided
for us. Many of the natives who had heard
of our arrival called to see us. The Presi-
dent of the R. S. Mrs. Lilia West
being one of the number. She had pre-
pared for us staying at her home and heed-
less of the torrents which continued to fall,
she and Kaluapalaoa, our native assistant,
went to procure a carriage for Sister Thur-
ber myself and baby, and soon we found our-
selves in more clean and comfortable quar-
ters; with a welcome that made us feel that
we were at home again. After partaking
of a nice warm meal in haole (white) style
we walked out to view the surroundings;
the rain had ceased and the sun was shining
brightly, and our present elevated situation
enabled us to overlook the entire village
from the calm capacious bay to the tower-
ing mountains of Mauna Kea, 13,805 feet
above sea level 'neath whose brow we were
now sheltered and Mauna Loa 13,650 feet
whose somber greatness together with the
picturesque town of Hilo slumbering in its
shades of foliage nestled low by the waters
edge with its rippling waterfalls glistening
in the sunlight, added to the novelty of the
scene. Oh the left is the famous pleasure
resort Halekainehe (house by the murmur-
ing sea) just opposite the pretty cocoanut
island a tempting place for an ideal seaside
home. How we strained our eyes with the
hopes of seeing just the smoke of the
famous volcano of Kilanea now thirty miles
nthe distance, and how we would have en-
joyed a trip there had we not felt that we
must be about our "Father's business."
The natives were busy in preparing for our
meeting on the morrow and the day passed
pleasantly in visiting, writing and in view-
ing the beauties of nature. Our meeting on
Saturday the 13th was attended with suc-
cess and the spirit manifest in appreciation
of our visit was very gratifying. At the
close of the meeting a native luan (feast)
was enjoyed by all present, a description of
which has often been given through the
columns of your paper. Early next mom
ing we mounted our horses in Hawaiian
style, and our company now seven in num-
ber commenced its arduous journey on
horseback. The town had a very pretty
appearance after the heavy rainfall and the
moss-covered rock wall around the Court-
house, and many of the old residences forci-
bly reminded me of Portland. The
Wailuku river which rises on Mauna Kea
and flows through the town has many
pretty tributaries which terminate in
waterfalls.
	The steel extension bridge across a

[Column 2]

picturesque little gulch which opens in a
small bay is a place of special attraction.
Here the natives were spending the Sab-
bath riding in on the breakers. The cane
fields begin at Hilo and are almost un-
broken for the next 90 miles. At ten
o'clock we were at Aleamai' where we
stopped and held meeting. The natives
were already awaiting our arrival, and
listened attentively to all that was said.
After meeting, fresh horses were procured
and we went on to Kahuwa a distance of
four miles commencing our journey over
the land of gulches. Our stopping place
was again far upon the mountain-side over-
looking the surrounding country which was
now one vast table-land sloping towards the
sea, and is much cut up with gulches.
The high altitude and bracing air sharp-
ened our appetites for poi and for the first
time we enjoyed it as well as our much
needed rest. The next day we held meet-
ing with the folks and as usual had to go
about a mile and a half to the meeting
house, after meeting we again enjoyed a
feast on the good things of Hawaii, and re-
turned feeling encouraged in our attempt to
arouse the sisters to a sense of duty. Next
morning with a fresh cavalry we started
out for a longer ride than usual fifteen
miles over tableland and through gulches
many of which are from 200 feet to 300 feet
high where the road crosses, extending al-
most perpendicularly, both above and below
the crossing, the road finding its difficult
way down the face of the pali. The water
used in the cane field on the tableland
above is carried over the gulches in flumes
of trussel work from five hundred to nearly
one thousand feet in highth, and they have
the appearance of net work across the
mouth of the gulch. The natural beauty
of these gulches cannot easily be described.
They are filled with tropical vegetation,
fern olia's kukui ti puhala, bread, fruit,
trees, etc. artistically arranged by nature's
hand.
	Night brought us to Veloka tired and
exhausted to a home where no food awaited
us, nor was it to be purchased at that place,
for exceptional to the rule there wdre no
stores in this vicinity, but I was too sick to
think about food. I asked for a bed, and
was glad, to have my request granted.
Kaluapalaua was troubled lest we should
suffer with hunger. We had a little con-
densed milk and a few crackers which we
had brought for baby, and which Sister
Thurber kindly prepared for him. He had
been without food since early morning, and
for the first time had cried with hunger and
fatigue. Kalua asked if we could eat such
as could be obtained. We told her we
could, and about nine o'clock a piece of half
cooked hee (devil fish) and a bowl of sour
poi was brought to our bedside. We were
glad when morning came, but were late in
getting started as horses were hard to catch.
We partook of such as was set before us
and were glad to again be on our journey.
Another fifteen miles over similar roads and
scenery brought us to Aleakili. We were
in hopes of meeting better accommodations,
but our experience taught us that where
there was no Relief Society, the people
were poorly prepared to care for those who
might travel among them, and through the
experience we had gained we brought with
us a little canned meat which with sweet
potatoes composed our supper. We ex-
pected a meeting with the sisters, but the
president of the branch, informed us they
had nearly all left, and the remainder so

[Column 3]

scattered that meetings could not be held.
We next went to Paauhau and enjoyed
meeting with the sisters. Our traveling
was becoming more practical and less
novel, but the scenery not less interesting.
In the morning we started again without
breakfast for an eight mile ride into the
Waipio valley. This is the first valley
since we left Hilo fifty-five miles behind.
This place is celebrated for its scenery. It
is about three fourth's of a mile in width,
and extends into the mountain about twenty
miles. The cliffs rise perpendicularly on
either side to a highth of three thousand
feet. The descent into the valley is by a
road three-fourths of a mile long, running
diagonally down the face of the pali. Over
these cliffs used to flow the waterfall Hilawe
1600 feet high, but the water is now car-
ried in pipes to the plantation Kukuihaele.
The manner in which we were, enter-
tained in this place would take time and
space to describe, but the best that was to
be had was at our disposal, and the sisters
vied in showing us respect. Our meeting
was well attended by both brethren and
sisters, and was one of the liveliest thus far
on our trip. Our evening was spent with
the village folks in listening to the sweet
songs of the young natives accompanied by
the guitars, and we could but say of
Waipio:—

The twilight approaches, all nature is lovely,
	Neither pencil nor pen can its beauty, portray,
The roar of the ocean, the waterfall's ripple,
	The lofty peaks hiding the sun’s latest ray.

The green beds of rice in the lois are growing,
	Nestled closely within the river's long bend,
The flowers are fragrant and great in abundance,
	A joy to our heart they ever will lend.

There are beauties of nature and grandeur sur-
		rounding.
	And scenes we'll remember in the future
		quite well;
But the grass hut before me all shattered and
		shabby,
	Is to me of more interest than to you I can
		tell.

It is there where the Elders have often been
		sheltered,
	Made welcome, and cheered in their labors
		of love;
By this same little flock, who now sit around us.
	I wonder if ever we'll meet thus above.

I deem it a privilege to my God I am, grateful,
	To travel the land where their feet have oft
		trod,
To lift up my voice with the same proclamation,
	Explaining the teachings of our Savior and
		God.

	To be continued.


