WEDDING BELLS.
"But happy they the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite; and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings
blend."
	It becomes our duty and a very pleasant one
 too to record the marriage of Miss Josephine
Simmons one of our compositors in this office
for some years, and who has also "made up"
the forms for the EXPONENT for two or three years
past. Miss Simmons is one of the young girls
who has made a success of type-setting, and it is
our sincere wish that she will be as successful in
her wifely duties as she has been in her work here;
but we are very well aware it requires more
varied talent.
	Miss Simmons we feel has begun right. She
was married to Albert Wilks an exemplary and
upright young man, in the Logan Temple Novem-
ber 2nd 1892.
	On the evening of Thursday November 3rd a
reception was held at the residence of ther moth-
er Mrs. Henrietta Simmons of the 20th Ward this
City, which we had the pleasure of attending


There were present most of the members of the
Simmons family and several of her grandfather's
family, the late Bishop Edwin D. Wooley. A
very merry and happy party they made, the bride
was animated and witty and the bridegroom sedate
but apparently intensely happy. The greetings
were warm and genuine, and there were kisses in
great abundance, from the large assembly of re-
latves. Quite a handsome crowd, there were
matrons, young married people, babies, various
kinds of music and recitations were given during
the evening and each one seemed willing to con-
tribute something to the enjoyment of the oc-
casion. There were a great number of useful
presents,and some very beautiful things given, and
the supper was delicious, in the strict sense of the
word. In fact there seemed nothing lacking to
make the occasion all that a model wedding party
should be. The memory of that evening should 
be ever an agreeable reminiscence in after years.
	May the happiness of this young couple increase
with their love and respect for each other as time
rolls on and in all the experience they may be
called to pass through may they rely upon the
principles of truth, aud have that faith in the Lord
and in the Everlasting Gospel which will sustain
them through the storm of adversity as well as
the sunshine of prosperity.


