IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXVI.
	THE sacred ceremony performed, the try-
ing ordeal passed, Uncle Rob giving the
bride away, and the leave-takings over—the
grand old family coach was at the door with
its handsome white horses and appurtenances
for it bore the "Walton Arms."  Lady An-
na who was still Lady Anna in her beauti-
ful personality with all the sweetness and
grace of her own dear self—without so
much as a wedding breakfast (as in these 
days) was  handed to a seat in the coach of
Lord Walton's family; young Walton the
proud bridegroom following in haste, as
though afraid at the last moment of losing
his prize.  Mrs. Bland wept profusely, she
had never shed so many tears since her
mother's funeral.  She could scarcely ac-
count for it herself and her husband was
very much annoyed.  Uncle Rob thought

[Column 2]
it uncalled for, and Clair who sympathized
most with her, wondered why she should 
weep like that when his own grief was quite
as real although not so demonstrative.
	Lady Anna was perfectly happy; she was
not one who cared much for wealth and
popularity, nor did she know how necessary
it was to her happiness and well-being in
society.  She had never yet comprehended
those great and homely truths that so affect
our lives temporally viz. the social con-
ditions.
	In the possession of her heart's desire, the
wife of the man of her choice, this innocent-
minded young maiden felt such perfect hap-
piness and security, that all else and all
other friends, home, the paternal mansion,
and its associations were momentarily for-
gotten. Her parting from cousin Jane to
whom she owed so much was as nothing
at such a time but to Jane Bland it was
painful.  She did not even remember that
her destination would be among Clair's
native mountains, she only rejoiced in the
beautiful present, perhaps it was as well;
yet it was painful to those who were left be-
hind, who loved her for herself, her native 
goodness, her personal worth and genuine
qualities.  The servants threw pecks of rice
after her and the old honse-keeper sent not
only an old shoe flying after her, but horse-
shoes as well, even more than one.
	After the coach had gone quite out of
sight, and the relatives of the family of the
late Baronet had spent themselves in gossip
about the affair, the breakfast was an-
nounced and Uncle Rob, Clair, Doctor
Bland and wife, the Bishop and Rector with
all the guests from a distance, including
Lady Walton, and some of the Walton
relatives, gathered around the table, to par-
take the wedding feast.  Gloomy enough
too for the absence of the bridal party cast a
shadow over the sumptuous morning meal,
even though all present seemed anxious to
make the best of it.  A strange melancholy
settled down upon the company, and not all
the witticisms and reminiscences of the
older relatives could dispel the settled con-
viction that many of them seemed to feel
that the change now made, would not be
the only radical one within a short time.
The subject of the future being brought up
each one seemed willing to respond or to
give an opinion and the universal verdict
was that never again would they meet in
that old ruin; many things pointed in the
direction of some new and unknown
changes, that were incomprehensible, a
quiet observer might see several of those
most interested, had strange presentiments in
regard to the future.
	The wedding breakfast over, the party
gathered in the drawing-room and conver-
sation became more general.  A bright fire
of hard wood glowed cheeringly and lighted
up the heavy dark mahogany furniture and
sombre wainscoted walls.  Wine, fruits and
nuts were upon the table, for dessert was to
be served there that the servants and old
retainers might come in to partake the
breakfast, perhaps it was the exhilaration of
the wine that made the company grow fam-
iliar and loosed their tongues.  Uncle Rob


Harrison appealing to Mrs. Bland inquired
her view of the condition of the family and
the Castle and also of Clair’s leaving it to
go abroad with him. “And where would
you wander, and how long keep him from
home, it seems to me a young man just en-
tering upon the duties of a vast estate, has
obligations to fill that require close atten-
tion, a year or two hence he might be bet-
ter prepared, when he has repaired the
house and made himself familiar with the
position he is to occupy in public life.”
	The reply was, “Now is his time he is
free and untrammelled in every way, he is
totally unfit as far as experience goes and
would possibly make some serious mistakes,
having no adviser to look into his affairs
and give counsel, and the lodgekeeper who
knows every foot of the place could manage
as he did in your Uncle’s time, and when
Clair has had the advantage of travel and
observation, he will have greater influence
in the County and be more of a man among
men, at present he is only an inexperienced
stripling.”
	“Yet he is older than Anna who has as-
sumed a position of such vital importance,
my heart goes out to her in tender pity,
and some way I cannot help feeling how
much she needs a woman’s advice, dear
Anna she is one of the most dependent
creatures, and has less idea of the world
than any girl I have ever seen, she is im-
pulsive and generous, trusts implicitly where
she has given her confidence, and I tremble
for her reason, were she deceived by one
she loved and believed in.”
	“You speak as though you entertained
positive fears of evil, is not young Walton
the soul of truth and honor, would he de-
ceive or wrong a woman; If I had any
doubts of his devotion, I would never have
given that innocent, confiding,young cousin
of mine into his care I assure you Mrs.
Bland. I love her as my own sister or
daughter, I will see to it that her happiness
is not wrecked as I live,’’and so excited did
he become that Jane Bland feared the Wal-
tons, who were at the other side of the long,
low room would hear the remark. Dr.
Bland who had remained silent until then,
broke in saying, “It is only the sadness of
the farewell that has wrought upon my
wife’s emotions Mr. Harrison it causes to her
look upon the dark side, she loved Anna
with her whole soul, so much indeed that
she almost felt it wrong to have a home of
her own. I had hard work to persuade her
that she needed companionship; her life
here was very exciting, and she is of a
nervous and susceptible as well as emotional
temperament.”
	Finding her husband so good a champion
Mrs. Bland left him the field with Mr.
Harrison, and turning to Clair asked him
where they intended going. “To the West
Indies I believe "he replied as Mr. Harrison
has seen the East Indies he seems anxious
now to explore the West."
	"And are you sure you can endure all sorts 
of weather like one used to all climates?"
"Now don't begin to worry over me, I'll 
take chances; I could go anywhere with such 
a friend, and he is so lonely I'm sure he has 
had some great sorrow in his life, been de-
ceived by a woman perhaps."
	"Don't say that Clair, don't become em-
bittered toward the other sex through a 
misanthrope, I hope you will marry some 
genuinely good young girl, and rebuild 
this castle, it would be so much better for 
all the people around and for your cousin 
too who would be so much happier to see a

[column 2]
little life in the dear old place, I have a
particular regard for this old ruin notwith-
standing its dilapidated condition, and all
the changes that have transpired.”
	“If I return safe, of which I have no
doubt, I will gratify you as far as the old
ruin is concerned, and make myself as
popular as possible with the people here-
abouts; entertain in a hospitable fashion
and keep up a style becoming the dignity of
the Hilliard estate.”
	“And perpetuate the ancestral name and
title cousin Clair, you are the last in the
male line of the name, and I have some
pride in that matter, it being my mother’s
name, and she thought it one of the best old
English names in the realm, and often told
me of her great grandfather Hilliard who
was one of the old feudal Baron’s and kept
his strongholds and drawbridge and
brooked no interference from the Knights
and Lords who encountered his dis-
pleasure.”
	The morning wore away and the Wal-
tons and all other guests took their leave;
Dr. and Mrs. Bland lingered later and
finally bade a reluctant goodbye to Clair
and Uncle Rob who were to leave for Lon-
don the next morning. It was the last
family party that ever assembled in that old
mansion, where generation after generation
had been born and bred and gone forth
to make a place in the world. Often Jane
Bland had reflected on the past,her mother’s
youthful days in that once palatial place,
now so ruined and desolate. Frequently
after it was entirely deserted except by the
people in charge, Mrs. Bland would stroll
thro’ the grounds and venturing in would
make a tour of the empty rooms recalling
the visions of the shadowy past, and in her
happier moods the halcyon days of yore,
when gaiety and festivity held sway
That last morning made an impression upon
Rob Harrison and Clair that they never for-
got in after years.


