WOMEN AND THE WORLD’S FAIR.
	THE World’s Fair work in Utah is pro-
gressing surely if not so rapidly as in some
other parts of the country. We hear good
reports of work, from some of the County
organizations, and the meetings are regular
and the women generally are becoming in-
terested as enthusiastic audiences testify.
Utah certainly should make a fine showing
in minerals, fruits, and in education proper,
and especially in the line of music. Un-
fortunately the mountains cannot be moved
thither, or the Lake either, and these being
the chief attractions of the country, places
Utah at a disadvantage, but surely there
must be some peculiar product, industry or
enterprise to represent that will bring
celebrity.
	However if it is but little that can be
done first and foremost let it be done well,
let quality and excellence be the criterion
instead of size or quantity. Remember
nothing shoddy, or of poor material, or in-
ferior work can pass muster. Bear this in
mind in all that is done.
	In Salt Lake County the committees in
the different departments of work and re-
search are pretty well organized, and con-
sist of some of the ablest and best informed
women in the City, and they certainly are
qualified to accomplish all it is possible to
do, to make a creditable representation of
whatever is suitable for the exhibit in the
Columbian Exposition. It should be the
ambition of every woman who loves her
country and her home to assist in this
laudable undertaking.
	The advantages it will give to women all
over the world cannot be too highly esti-
mated. Even in the little that has been
done here already one can see the awaken-
ing to thought, and the resolve to become
better educated individually and generally,
on all matters pertaining to the exhibits to
be made by the world at large, the history
of countries, and the laws and customs of
ancient and modern nations.
	This among women whose school days
are over, and who now actively engage not
only collecting material for exhibits, but

[Column 2]
knowledge of various things and kinds,
amounts to a diffusive strengthening of wo-
man’s powers that must necessarily result
in good. Every woman also who takes
hold of the work will be materially benefit-
ted, her views of mankind and womankind
enlarged, and her opinions broadened and
the standard of her judgment become bet-
ter and higher.
	This work is bringing women into a
nearness of contact that will increase con-
fidence, and a more universal sisterhood will
be established by the association and re-
lation of this vast army of workers.
	There is very little time left in which to
work, things have really been put off un-
til the eleventh hour, but it is to be hoped
though Utah may be late she will be fully 
equipped, and will receive her proportion of
the benefits of this occasion that marks the
centuries of progress as well as of time.
One of the greatest phenomena of the age
will be the immense strides made by women
in many, if not nearly all countries as com-
pared to the circumstances and conditions in
former times. In many branches of indus-
trial arts, in knowledge, scientific and use-
ful, or domestic, women are competing with
men and frequently excel, and the world
still remains in its sphere and orbit and is
not turned upside down, nor are the laws of
nature reversed.
	If anything could be said to more strong-
ly emphasize the fact of efficient and active
service for the public good in the World’s
Fair matters, we should be only too glad to
help push the enterprise forward; every in-
dividual woman, who has time and means
at her command should use her best en-
ergies to assist the movement and make
it a complete success, that she and all others
may look back upon the representation with
pride in after years.


