SOCIAL REUNION. 

	THE first social reunion under the direc-
tion of the newly-elected officers of the “P.
C.W. P. A.” occurred Monday last. The
programme was in the care of the new chair-
man of the Programme Committee, Miss
Adeline E. Knapp of the “Call.” She proved
the right one in the right place, and further
demonstrated what brilliant achievements
lie in the wake of journalistic leadership.
The social was well attended and voted a
pronounced success, a feature of it being
the bright, spirited papers that aroused good
fellowship, rather than a vein of gloomy
reminiscent adventures that only revive hid-
eous nightmares. The opening address was
by the president, Emily Browne Powell,
her subject being the origin of clubs. In
her own racy descriptive style she carried
her hearers to “The Mermaid Inn,” where
Shakespere and kindred spirits made their
rendezvous and in social enjoyment coined
gems of imperishable thought that survives
them as monuments of their genius. Terse-
ly she reviewed the growth of clubs, es-
pecially calling attention to women’s first
venture in that line, and closed only too
soon her interesting discourse with a hope
and abiding faith that their future would be
a never-ending success. At the conclusion
of that address and the social, which she
managed with parliamentary dignity, the
association felt more assured than ever that
their choice of executive officer could not


be improved. Adeline E. Knapp, chairman
of the Programme Committee, made a neat
address in assuming the responsible position
confided to her, and outlined her policy for
her period of office. She declared she
would prohibit the airing of fads for the
selfish enjoyment of perhaps a few at the
skirmishing for literary or eccentric lions to
show our prowess we had in trapping such
curiosities, knew the association had suf-
ficient talent to entertain and proposed using
it. Her address was well received and her
ideas generously applauded. Mrs. Hannah
Neal gave reminiscences of Whittier, her
tribute being that he was sinless, spotless,
immaculate. Miss Kelly Kesher delivered
a bright descriptive piece, “Kentucky
Belle,” with dramatic effect and pleasing
manner. Mrs. Helen G. Fisher spoke of
the vicissitudes of a literary profession, and
with heroism said every disappointment
nerved her to greater exertion, and always
ended in accomplishing her aim.  The re-
view was enjoyable and entertaining. A
bulletin issued monthly, containing a record
of the workings of the members is a sug-
gestion of Miss Knapp’s that will ere long
know fruition. If the success of this, the
first social, presages the future, our club-
room will scarce accommodate the guests
seeking cards of admission.—The Journalist.


