		PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURE.

	THE following is a synopsis of a lecture
given before the Woman's Hygiene Phy-
siological reform class at Lehi Aug 31, 1892,
by a member.
	The subject is the period of child-life
when development into manhood and wo-
manhood begins.
	The little boy and girl may grow up un-
der the same conditions yet you will notice
by their walk and talk a difference in their
natures. At the age of ten perhaps every
thing being normal the boy will display
qualities suited to the hardier side of life;
the girl will lean to the tender side and so
it will be through life. They are not
created the same, their vocations in life
must neccessarily be different in many par-
ticulars if they would reach the exalted end
intended by their Creator. What is the end
intended? That to which I refer, is to be-
come exalted beings as our Creator. But
we are dealing now with a preparatory state.
Physical, mental and spiritual development.
Each has its bearing upon the others and to
have the training well balanced must go
hand in hand. The little child must be
physically mentally and spiritually trained.
	Let me speak first of the physical train-
ing. God's laws and Nature's laws are
perfect and are one. If we govern and are
governed by perfect law, is it not reasonable
to suppose the resnlts will be most satis-
factory?
	There are many things to be considered
in the physical development. Diet, dress,
work, play, rest.
	What kind of food shall our maturing
children eat? Pickles, pastry, candies and
nicknacks? Many do eat such things, but
notice the results. On the other hand, give
them food made from grain, fruits,
vegetables. And in all the plain palatable
and digestible forms that wide-awake moth-
ers are capable of preparing, at the same
time forbidding stimulants by teaching them
the evil effects, being yourself an example
and then again notice the results.
	How shall they be clothed? Cotton un-
der-wear, long tight waists, garters, thin
stockings and tight shoes. Mark the
effect?
	On the contrary: give them perfect free-
dom in every part of the body, woolen or
silk next the skin; every thing supported
from the shoulders; shoes suited in quality
to the season. And last though not least,
let every part of the body have perfect free-
dom and be properly protected. Work,
play,rest and exercise—all must be governed
in wisdom. But I will speak especially of
the work.
	I think that children should be taught to
work. Do not allow idleness for just to
the extent it is allowed, it will bring ruin.
Give them work but let the work be of
such a nature that it will not injure them.

[column 2]
As they advance into their teens, do not
put the girl upon her feet and expect her to
stand day in and day out, do not put her
at the wash-tub or ironing-table three or
four days out of every week. If you do it
is at a risk of her womanly development.
	Now we will take the mental and
spiritual training. Great injury is wrought
the growing girl by urging her or allowing
her, to master her education too early in life.
Many of our young girls are exceedingly
brilliant and as they discover the beauties
of the different branches of knowledge
which fill them with so much delight, it is
but natural that they will make an effort to
master as many of them as possible. They
must not be allowed to put too great a
strain upon their mental powers, because
the mental draws its support from the
physical body and if exerted to extremes
exhausts the physical organism. The most
important organs particularly can be great-
ly injured and in many instances they are
completely robbed of their power to per-
form their part of the mission of life. If
these things were not so often done in ig-
norance, how many would be the crimes to
be accounted for? Is it not a crime to will-
fully thwart the designs of our Creator?
	Among other blessings, God has given
womankind one grand mission to perform,
namely that of becoming mothers. No in-
vention can cover it. Woman must per-
form that work herself. And how proud
she ought to feel of the distinction; and
with what exalted feelings should she in-
spire the minds of her daughters in regard
to their existence: making plain to their
minds the plans and designs of our Creator
in peopling the earth. For in these tender
years of their lives while developing
physically they are laying the foundation of
their constitution, their character and their
future hapiness.	MARTHA KEELER,
	Provo.


