OBITUARY.
Editor EXPONENT:
	THE grim monster "death" has had another
victory, and that will be the theme of this writ-
ing.
	My beloved wife Louisa, died Friday evening
the 28th of October 1892, at 7,30 o'clock, of
bilious fever. She was taken sick on the 5th, and
after lingering twelve or fourteen days she began
to get better, and we had great hopes that she
would recover, for on the 19th and 20th she was
so much better that she sat up in a chair; but the
next day, she took a relapse, and from that on
until the following Friday, the day of her death
as stated, she was very sick all the time. The
Elders were frequently called in to administer to
her, and we all did the best we could to exercise
faith in her behalf. She was also remembered in
our public worship.
	The children naturally clung to her life, and
would not and could not give her up, for they
loved her dearly. Four children are left to
mourn her departure, two boys and two girls,
aged respectively 25, 21, 19 and 17; all of them at
home and unmarried.
	She meets her first born on the other side of the
vail, a darling baby who died at one year old.
	Mary, the youngest of the girls, had a presenti-
ment a few days before her mother died, while
praying in a sacred place, a spirit or voice told
her that her mother could not get well; but still
we clung to her, and did not want her to part from
us; and she herself did not want to go; but we
all believe now that it was the will of the Lord,
and hence we try to reconcile our feelings as best
we can.
	She died as she had lived faithful and true to
the gospel and in the hope of a glorious ressur-
rection. She was perfectly conscious to the last
and spoke till within two or three hours of her
death, admonishing her children to be good and
true. The day before she was taken ill, she was
round visiting the sisters in her district together
with Sister Hedervig Christensen, as teachers.
It would be the truth to say that she was very
benevolent and kind-hearted to the poor, and a
reward even for this will await her.
	She was born in Nyborg Denmark the 25th of
September 1838, and was the daughter of Rasmus
and Kirstine Jasperson.
	In 1857 she left her home by steamer for
Aarhuns a province in Jutland to provide for her-
self. In that City there was a large branch of the
Church, and she became acquainted with the Lat-
ter Day Saints, and was baptized Sept. 6th 1860.
The next spring she emigrated to Utah, and then
you know the rest, for if I mistake not she came
to live with you right away in the City after her
arrival.
	On her visit to Sanpete in May 1864, together
with Mary Flygare, I became acquainted with her
and we were married in the Endowment House
on the 15th of June following.
	I believe that you thought a good deal of my
wife, and would like to hear some of the par-
ticulars of her demise, and I can assure you that
she thought a great deal of you. There is, how-
ever, some pleasure even in death itself. She
was beautiful even in death and she was laid
away neatly in a nice white coffin, and the
children will hold this in dear remembrance.


We did some work and received some special
blessings in the Manti Temple where President
Wells presided.  In these things I rejoice and
hope to prove worthy that we may all meet again.
	With kind love and regard from the children
and myself, I remain your brother in the gospel,
