W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A met as per ad-
journment in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Tuesday Oct. 18th, Vice Prest.
L. K. Spencer in the chair. Opened by
singing “Wyoming,” prayer Elizabeth M.
Price. Singing “Oh come come away”
minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Roll called, the program was
rendered as follows: reading by M. A.
Freeze, on the duties of mayor, song
Maggie Bassett, speech Elizabeth Mc’Far-
lane, in which she expressed an opinion
that it might improve the city government
if we had a lady mayor.
	M.Y. Dougall echoed the sentiments of
the former speaker, and thought if women
had more to do with the municipal govern-
ment, that many of the present evils would
not exist.
	E. M. Price, speaking of some of the ob-
jections to woman suffrage, thought the
time would come when the men would be
as much ashamed of the present condition
of public affairs as they are now, of the
ancient “ducking stool.”
	Vice Prest. N. C. Taylor thought that if
women were associated with men in the
Court Room, etc. the floors would be kept
clean of tobacco juice,and men’s feet would
stay on the floor, instead of reposing on
tables and window-sills.
	Ter. Prest. Sarah M. Kimball mentioned
some reforms brought about by the Kansas
women, when they had a share in the City


government, and thought that if men and
women were associated together in this
capacity, it would be elevating to both, also
that when Utah should present a constitution
asking for statehood, justice to women re-
quired, that it should contain a clause, con-
fering equal political rights and privileges
on men and women. Said it was woman's 
province to purify politics, but if she were
coming down to the level of some men, it
would be a great letting down, we will be
known by our fruits.
	Short speeches were made by Maria Holt
and E. Mc'Farlane. Vice Prest. Phebe C. 
Young related an incident, where a woman
was arrested and cast into prison on 
suspicion of being intoxicated, and was
found dead the next morning with a new
born babe by her side; thought that if a
police matron had been there, such lack of
care would not have been exhibited. Said
we could hardly expect that men would be 
condemned for crimes against women, by 
men who were guilty of the same crimes
themselves. 
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she favored acting
upon principle, rather than policy. 
	Prest. Howard announced that the next
meeting would be for the election of officers
and renewal of membership. Mrs. Bassett
again delighted the assembly with a sweet 
song, and the meeting adjourned. 
