WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿NOTES AND NEWS.
	In Glasgow, Scotland,  15,740 women
have municipal suffrage.
   MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL is at-
tending the Woman's Congress at Mem-
phis, Tenn.
	It is with much sorrow that we chronicle
the defeat, in the Vermont Senate,  of  the
Woman Suffrage Bill which lately passed
the House so triumphantly.
   DR. MARGARET CLEAVES has been unan-
imously elected secretary of the Electro-
therapeutic Society,  of New York, being 
the first woman to hold this office.
	A MEETING of the Executive Committee
of the National Council of Women will be 
held in Chicago,  December 14-15.  Many
matters of importance  relating  to  the
World's Congress of Representative Wo-
men, to be held under the auspices of the
Woman's Branch of the World's  Congress
Auxiliary and the National Council of Wo-
men,  will be discussed at this meeting.
   FRANCES E WILLARD went to England
with Lady Somerset, sailing on the  Majes-
tic, Nov. 16.  She will return to America
in April.  Miss Anna Gordon, who accom-
panies Miss Willard, will spend the winter
organizing children's work in England.
	Mrs. Gladstone is as young as her hus-
band. Although she is eighty,  she has 
never yet known what it was  to need 
spectacles, and her eyes are as bright as
those of a young girl.  Sir Andrew Clarke
says she ought to be called the Grand Old
Woman.
	Rev.  Edward E. Hale seconds Miss
Willard's nomination of Jean Ingelow for
poet-laureate.  He says in  the Boston
Commonwealth:  "A queen should have a
woman for her laureate.  Victoria is to look 
among the women of England,  to know
who has written, or  who can write,  such
poems as shall honor a reign,  now more 
than half a century long,  which has a
literature of its own, as in all other regards
it has  its own distinctive history.   This
woman is Jean Ingelow."
	The little adopted son of Mrs.  Palmer
will press the button that is to send the
electric thrill through the great machinery of
the Exposition.   The  little fellow is a 
Castilian by birth, and the son of an officer
in the Spanish Army.  He was christened
Murillo Castelar Palmer by the great orator 
and poet, Emilio Castelar.
   MISS CLARA BARTON,  of  Washington,

[Column 2]
D. C., of Red Cross fame, is with the  Ray-
mond excursion party enroute to Califor-
nia.  She is accompanied by Dr.  Hubbell
and Miss Almon.  Miss Barton says that
it is probable that the International Red
Cross Society will make an elaborate ex-
hibit next year.
	Between twenty and thirty women have
already registered as students of the post-
graduate department at Yale.  Yale has
received over $2,000,000  the past year.
President Dwight states that a million
more has been pledged.  The principal be-
quests have been from the Fayerweather
estate,  from  Mrs.  Olive  Winchester,  of
New York, who gave $100,000 for the erec-
tion of the new scientific building, and from
Mrs. Osborn, of New York, who also  gave
Osborn Hall, and who in her will left about
$100,000  to  Yale.  It is good  to  enrich
Yale.  But women,  when they bequeath
money to educational institutions, should 
remember the colleges that admit women to
all their privileges.


