[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Biographical Sketches of Winners]

Page 18
Award Winners Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE. Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1952 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1952. A | The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Hazel K. Todd, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "For. Ever After." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Morning's at Seven." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Norma Wrathall, American Fork, Utah, for her story "Marcie's Pink Taffeta."
This story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941'as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the al zine for 1953. Thirty-three manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1952. The winner of the first prize this year has not previously received an award in the Relief Society Short Story contest; the second prize winner this year received the third prize in 1944 and first prize last year; the third prize winner placed first in 1943 and second in 1950.
This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The general board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.
Many of the stories submitted in the 1952 contest were beautifully and professionally written.
Most of the entries revealed an understanding of characterization, dialogue, and other features of story technique. The Relief Society Magazine now has a circulation of approximately 110,000. 'There are subscribers in every state in the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of entering in the contest their very best work. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories.
Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-wining stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest.