[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Irene Burch SuttonWoman Hobbies]

Irene Burch Sutton, of Oakley, Idaho, to tell which of her hobbies is most important in her life, or which gives most pleasure to her and to her friends and family. She is particularly skilled in crocheting, and her many exquisite and intricate designs reveal a keen sense of artistry and color harmony. Mrs. Sutton does many other types of handwork, as well as making decorative artificial flowers and many types of novelty gifts. Music has long given Mrs. Sutton much personal pleasure, and she has been most generous with her talent, having served as ward organist for many years and as piano accompanist. She plays the harmonica and accordion, and has made many dances merry with her music. She has sung alto in choruses since her early youth, and _patticularly enjoys singing the hymns of the Latter-day Saints. Her Church service has included many years of Sunday School teaching and secretarial work, and forty-eight years as a Primary teacher and officer. In Relief Socie she has served in many capacities—counselor, organist, visiting teacher for thirty-five years, and at present she is Magazine representative, having achieved a one hundred per cent record during her three years of service. However, the many hobbies and talents of Mrs. Sutton are not of greatest importance in her life. She keeps a lovely home and yard, assists her husband in his work on the farm, and maintains much interest in the families of her own three children and two adopted children. Page 38
The Summer Kitchen Mary C. Martineau ALLY Anne didn't have to cook over a fireplace. No, indeed! Sally Anne had a cookstove, and her cookstove was her pride and joy. She kept it polished a shiny black and the fire glowing cozily. On the front door of the stove above the grating it said Home Comfort, and on the oven door it said Marvel. In the summertime Anne burned dry chips in her stove, and in the wintertime she burned thick sticks of pine and mahogany wood brought down from Logan canyon by her husband John, with his team, old Duke and Baldy, hitched to the running gears of his wagon.
John was a man a little over medium height, and he had wavy light brown hair and merry blue eyes. Sally Anne's hair and eyes were dark, and she was as slender and lithe as a willow. Now Sally Anne wanted a summer kitchen. She was bound and determined to have one. You perhaps know what a summer home is, even if you have to live in your home the year round. But you cannot know what a summer kitchen is unless you are about my age and remember when they were in style. All Sally Anne's neighbors had summer kitchens. Reeses' had one built out at the side of their house, connected to the back porch by a little runway. Jorgenson's summer kitchen didn't fasten on to their house at all, but stood clear away from it, and some planks were laid down from the back steps of the house to it, for Mrs.
Jorgenson and the family to walk on (especially handy in rainy weather). Davis' summer kitchen was much on the same order, except no planks. And so I could go on and on from farmhouse to farmhouse all up and down the river in Jonesville, proving that Sally Anne's neighbors nearly all had summer kitchens. But all that doesn't say what a summer kitchen was. Well, it was a place to put the kitchen stove in the summer and not "heat up the whole house," as Sally Anne put it. One hot summer day while Sally Anne was cooking dinner, the kitchen (which was kitchen and dining room combined), kept getting hotter and hotter. The bread was baking in the oven, and kettles of vegetables were boiling on top of the stove. The meat for dinner was frying, and so was Sally Anne.