[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Beyond Confining Bounds]
Beyond  confining  bounds  of  time  and  space; 
At  times  he  falters,  finds  he  must  retrace, 
Then  probe  his  soul  to  find  the  cryptic  key. 
From  parchment  scrolls  of  ancient  Galilee, 
He  garners  living  gems  of  truth  and  grace, 
As  gates  of  darkness  fall,  love  will  replace 
The  law  of  tooth  and  claw,  to  set  him  free. 
Man's  wisdom  is  a  very  feeble  flame; 
It  flickers,  wavers,  swayed  by  doubt  and  fear, 
But  reinforced  by  faith,  glows  brilliantly. 
The  radiant  symbol  of  a  greater  name. 
The  road  ahead  emerges  straight  and  clear 
Transcending  space  into  eternity.

\blder  ^ohn  Jl,   Vi/idtsoe 
(January  31,  1872  -  November  29,1952) 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
pOET,  writer,  educator,  scientist, 
teacher,  •  executive,  diplomat, 
friend  of  the  oppressed  and  unfor- 
tunate, missionary  and  special  wit- 
ness for  Jesus  Christ,  all  these  and 
more,  was  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
His  learning  did  not  spoil  him. 
The  man-made  philosophies  and 
theories  of  this  modern  world 
through  which,  in  his  school  days, 
he  had  to  pass,  failed  to  destroy  his 
faith.  When  the  pressure  of  such 
things  was  upon  him  and  doubts 
arose  in  his  mind,  he  presented  his 
problem  to  his  Eternal  Father  and 
obtained  the  answer.  In  his  plead- 
ings he  wrote  the  beautiful  hymn, 
"Father:  Lead  Me  Out  of  Dark- 
ness." He  received  the  answer. 
He  believed  the  teachings  in  the 
Bible.  He  knew  that  ''Adam  fell 
that  men  might  be;  and  men  are 
that  they  might  have  joy."  He  knew 
that  it  was  "by  reason  of  transgres- 
sion'' that  came  the  fall;  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of 
the  Father  in  the  flesh  and  our  Elder 
Brother  in  the  spirit,  and  that  we 
arc  the  "offspring  of  God."  He 
knew  without  any  doubt  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  and  the  Savior  of  all  men  who 
ELDER   JOHN   A.    WIDTSOE 
will  repent  and  accept  his  gospel, 
and  this  was  Elder  Widtsoe's  mes- 
sage as  a  special  witness  for  Christ 
to  all  the  world.  He  was  loyal  to 
his  brethren,  his  religion,  and  to 
God. 
PoQe   IB

Kyiward  Vi/inners 
(bliza  [ri.  Snow  IPoem  (contest 
'pHE  Relief  Society  general  board  paying  for  them   at  the  time  of 
is  pleased  to  anounce  the  names  publication  at  the  regular  Magazine 
of  the  three  prize  winners  in  the  rate.     A  writer  who  has  received 
1952  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  contest,  ^he  first  prize  for  two  consecutive 
This  contest  was  announced  in  Y^^'^  "^^^t  wait  two  years  before 
the  June  1952  issue  of  the  Maga-  ^^^^^^^  ^^''''                *""  ^''^^' 
zine,  and  closed  September  ic,  101:2.  t-i,^  *                       i,     j    j        j 
'     r    .      .        r  .            r      ?  -,  Thcrc   wcrc    one    hundred    and 
The  first  prize  of  twenty-five  dol-  t^^j^^y   poems   submitted   in    this 
lars    IS    awarded    to    Eva    Willes  yearns   contest,   as   compared   with 
Wangsgaard,  Ogden,  Utah,  for  her  one  hundred  and   twelve   entered 
poem  ''No  Barren  Bough."  last  year.  Many  of  the  poems  sub- 
The  second  prize  of  twenty  dol-  mitted   this   year   revealed   beauty 
lars   is   awarded    to    Sylvia   Probst  of  thought,  and  nearly  all  of  the 
Young,  Midvale,  Utah,  for  her  poem  subjects  of  the  entries  were  based 
''Goodbye  to  Her  Son."  upon  an  interesting  and  significant 
The  third  prize  of  fifteen  dollars  theme, 
is  awarded  to  Eleanor  W.  Schow,  Entries  from  nineteen  states,  the 
Brigham  City,  Utah,  for  her  poem  Dominion  of  Canada,  and  Hawaii, 
"The  Greater  Love."  were   represented   in    the   contest, 
This  poem  contest  has  been  con-  the  largest  number  of  entries  com- 
ducted  annually  by  the  Relief  So-  ing  from  Utah, 
ciety  general  board  since  1932,  in  The  first  prize  winner  this  year  has 
honor  of  Eliza  R.   Snow,   second  received  awards  many  times  in  the 
general  president  of  Relief  Society,  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  contest;  the 
a  gifted  poet  and  beloved  leader,  second  prize  winner  was  awarded 
who  was  born  January  21,  1804,  in  first  prize  last  year;  and  the  third 
Becket,  Massachusetts,  and  died  in  prize  winner  this  year  places  for  the 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  December  5,  first  time  in  the  contest. 
1887.  The  general  board  congratulates 
The  contest  is  open  to  all  Latter-  the  prize  winners  and  expresses  ap- 
day  Saint  women,  and  is  designed  preciation  to  all  entrants  for  their 
to   encourage  poetry  writing,   and  interest  in  the  contest, 
to  increase  appreciation  for  creative  The  general  board  wishes,  also, 
writing  and  the  beauty  and  value  to  thank  the  judges  for  their  care 
of  poetry.  and  diligence  in  selecting  the  prize- 
Prize-winning  poems  are  the  winning  poems.  The  services  of  the 
property  of  the  Relief  Society  gen-  poetry  committee  of  the  general 
eral  board,  and  may  not  be  used  board  are  very  much  appreciated, 
for  publication  by  others,  except  The  prize-winning  poems,  to- 
upon  written  permission  from  the  gether  with  photographs  and  bio- 
general  board.  The  general  board  graphical  sketches  of  the  prize-win- 
also  reserves  the  right  to  publish  ning  contestants,  are  published 
any  of  the  other  poems  submitted,  herewith. 
Page  H