[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Editorial | Title: Gifts of]
EDITORIAL 
VOL  40 
JANUARY  1953 
NO.  1 
^ifts  Of  IPrayiQi 
If  ye  then,  being  evil,  know  how  to  give  good  gifts  unto  your  children,  how  much 
more  shall  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  give  good  things  to  them  that  ask  him? 
(Matt.  7:11) 
A  S  the  new  year  begins,  good  gifts 
await  the  righteous  individual 
who,  with  a  Hving  faith  in  his  Heav- 
enly Father  and  a  knowledge  of  his 
commandments,  seeks  the  desires 
of  his  heart  in  fervent  prayer.  He 
who  thus  prays  is  sustained  in  sor- 
row and  ''good  things"  are  given 
him  of  the  Father  throughout  the 
year. 
The  scriptures  are  replete  with 
admonitions  of  the  necessity  for 
prayer  and  the  sure  promise  of  an 
answer.  ''Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given 
you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock, 
and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you" 
(Matthew  7:7),  reiterated  the  Sav- 
ior. One  is  commanded  to  pray 
always. 
The  love  of  a  mother  has  been 
termed  the  nearest  thing  on  earth 
to  God's  love.  Her  love  is  such 
that  she  sorrows  at  waywardness  in 
a  child  and  maintains  a  constant 
vigil  and  watchcare  over  him,  pour- 
ing out  loving  kindnesses  day  and 
night.  All  the  spiritual  guidance 
she  can  bestow  and  the  material 
gifts  she  considers  wise,  she  gives  to 
her  child. 
The  Father's  love  is  infinite.  He 
has  wept  over  the  wickedness  of  the 
children,  the  workmanship  of  his 
hands,  who  are  without  affection  for 
him,    to    whom    they    owe    their 
Page  34 
knowledge  and  their  agency.  Yet 
he  holds  out  to  the  least  worthy 
the  divine  gift  of  repentance,  and 
there  is  joy  in  heaven  over  the  sin- 
ner that  repents.  To  a  faithful  son 
he  has  promised,  "Son,  thou  art 
ever  with  me,  and  all  that  I  have 
is  thine"  (Luke  15:31).  The  Father 
will  give  his  children  the  greatest 
gifts  if  they  seek  them  and  ask  him. 
Whether  one  kneels  alone  to  pray 
aloud  and  plead  with  the  Lord  or 
sends  up  a  silent  cry  among  men, 
the  Father  is  close  at  hand  to  heed 
the  prayer.  However,  the  Savior 
has  set  forth  certain  requirements 
for  the  answering  of  prayers,  for  the 
bestowal  of  good  gifts. 
What  things  soever  ye  desire,  when  ye 
pray,  believe  that  ye  receive  them,  and  ye 
shall  have  them.  And  when  ye  stand  pray- 
ing, forgive  if  ye  have  ought  against  any: 
that  your  Father  also  which  is  in  heaven 
may  forgive  you  your  trespasses  (Mark 
11:24-25). 
One   is   counseled   to   forgive   and 
believe. 
Heavenly  Father  is  perfect.  He 
is  loving  and  merciful;  he  is  likewise 
just,  omniscient,  and  omnipotent. 
In  approaching  him  in  prayer,  Dav- 
id was  led  to  exclaim: 
When  I  consider  thy  heavens,  the  work 
of  thy  fingers,  the  moon  and  the  stars, 
which  thou  hast  ordained:  What  is  man,

EDITORIAL  35 
that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?  and  the  learns  to  pray,  almost  from  infancy. 
son  of  man  that  thou  visitest  him?  (Ps.  There,  first,  he  may  be  taught  not 
^^"4^  only  to  pray  in  love,  expecting  an 
In  family  prayer  when  a  young  answer  to  his  prayer,  but  also  that 
couple  kneels,  at  first  alone  and  t^^  PJ^yer  should  be  couched  in  re- 
then,  as  the  years  pass,  joined  by  ^pectful  and  reverential  words.  The 
their  children,  the  proper  language  ^f  g^^ge  of  the  sacred  writings  is 
of  prayer  should  be  used.  President  f^  pattern  to  be  followed  in  ad- 
Stephen  L  Richards  has  given  this  '^■^^ssing  Deity,  thou  and  not  you. 
admonition:  Through   prayer,   the  knowledge 
or  the  rather  grows  and  mcreases 
It  always  seems  disappointing  to  me  to  within    one.      As    the    Savior    said, 
have  our  Father  in  heaven   addressed  as  ''The    Father    hath     not    left     me 
>u.''    I  think  you  might  make  note  of  ^i^^e"    (John  8:2q),  neither  need 
it  and  avail  yourselves  of  all  opportunities  r  i  •      i  -u                      i.T_  -u     i   r. 
that  may  come  in  order  to  teach  the  sac-  ^^y  of  his  children  on  earth  be  left 
red  and  reverential  language  of  prayer.  alone,  but  they  may  go  to  him  in 
prayer    always    and    receive    ''good 
In  a  Latter-day  Saint  home  it  is  things,"  eternal  gifts. 
at  a  mother's   knee   that  a   child  — M.  C.  S. 
^ 
Q>iaer  ibzra  ofaft   Ujenson  Appointed
