[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: We Must Unite to Polio]

~~~ We Must Unite to Conquer Poliomyelitis Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis JOLIO incidence is getting worse in about the same proportion that March of Dimes research is getting better. Polio played a game of numbers with human lives in 1952. In its most savage attack of all time, the disease swept down upon the nation and made statistics of people. Week after week, in countless communities, public interest was focused grimly upon numbers—the significant numbers which, summed up in cold, simple terms, tell the full extent of polio's ravages. While scientists this year were discovering that gamma globulin provides marked, if temporary, protection against paralytic polio, the disease claimed more than 50,000 victims in an outburst as perverse as it was unprecedented. The nation is in a tug-of-war with polio, and the help of every American is urgently needed if this crippling disease is ever to be banished from our environment. 1953, the need for a quick knockout blow grows in significance. As polio casts its shadow over its potential victims of That punch will take a tremendous amount of March of Dimes funds. You can bolster the 1953
March of Dimes campaign by giving it your individual support and, by urging every organization to which you belong to unite in support of the campaign—and thereby join in what may well "be polio's last stand. We hope that you will be able to lend your strength to the winning of this war against the only epidemic disease still on the increase in America. She Value and Use of Audio-Visual Seaching Aids in Relief Society | Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board HE objective of every Relief Society class leader is to convey to her class members ideas, knowledge, and basic information of the lesson in the time allotted to her. It is her earnest desire that learning will take place that the purpose of her hours of preparation will be accomplished. She, therefore, welcomes a teaching aid which will add to the effective presentation of her lessons. Learning is experience centered. The more vital the sensory experiences that are provided in the lesson presentation, the easier it will be for class members to learn. To see as well as hear helps us feel more completely the reality of the experience shared through lesson subject matter. The Master Teacher shows us the value of appeal to the eye as well as the ear:... Bring me a penny, that I may see it. And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at him (Mark 12:15-17). Well might they marvel. When was a message more simple or more forceful? When was a visual aid used more effectively? Values of Audio-Visual Aids There are many audio-visual aids which we may use today. Books, still pictures, motion pictures, film strips, maps, posters, graphs, charts, blackboard chalk illustrations, records, and many others are readily available. But before we can make effective use of them we must understand some of their teaching values. They save words and so save time. They stimulate interest. They focus attention. They supply concrete material. They give correct impressions. They aid in retention. They help recall experiences. They substitute for real experience. They provide emphasis. They enrich and clarify. Oe oe ee _ However, as you study their values, you also become aware of possible dangers in their use. For example, if a picture shown does not apply specifically to the lesson and must be explained, neither words nor time are saved. It is true that interest will have been stimulated; attention will have been focused; the class may remember the incident; but the lesson certainly will not have been clarified and a correct impression will not have been left by the use of the aid. Selection of Teaching Aids Our selection of teaching aids must be carefully made. Relief Society is a Church auxiliary, and every picture, chart, graph, map, or Page 27 

 —JANUARY 1953 book used, must teach truth in such a manner as to forward Relief Society and Church objectives. We must be sure that the aid we plan to use: 1.
Will have direct relationship to lesson subject matter. Z.
Will supplement and enrich lesson subject matter. 3.
Will have definite and apparent place in lesson presentation. 4.
Will forward lesson objective. 5- Will be suitable for Relief Society members. If the chart or picture has no direct relationship to the lesson, it will distract from the smooth, wellintegrated unfoldment of the lesson material and will serve no real teaching purpose. Relief Society members are women of broad and varied experiences. An abstraction or generalization attains a richness of meaning only to the extent that concrete experience is wide and varied; also the value of visual aids depends upon the nature and extent of the person's previous experience. It follows, then, that visual aids prepared for a child's level of experience would not be suited for use in teaching an adult level.
Cautions in Choosing Teaching Aids: We must not use: 1. Too much material for one lesson.
When you find it hard to discard an interesting picture and are tempted to use too much material, think how the effectiveness of the lesson of the coin would have been lessened by elaboration. 2.
Material unsuited to the teaching facilities. You must suit the amount of material you plan to put on a blackboard to the size of the blackboard that is available..
Light projected pictures demand a room that can be darkened and a source of power for the light. 3.
Material poor in quality. A picture that is poor in quality, and detracts from the ideal, does not add to lesson quality, such as a line drawing of a Book of Mormon character prepared for children. 4.
Inaccurate or confusing material. Any map used must be accurate, with the placements on it correct. Latter-day Saints do not show angels as having wings.
Charts that are not simple and definite may confuse rather than clarify. 5.
Material not well integrated. If you have a real reason for using a record, picture, chart, or book, you will have no difficulty integrating it in your lesson plan. It will fit as does the right piece in a puzzle and will forward your objective by its use. Ten Ways Pictures Aid in Teaching While all audio-visual aids have a certain common value, each one has a certain definite service it can render. For example, pictures serve in ten ways. A well-chosen picture may capture attention and at the same time introduce a lesson, arouse interest, curiosity, and suspense, and thus stimulate thinking about the lesson.
Pictures definitely increase understanding. "You will have to draw me a picture" has become a catch phrase to let a person know you do not understand his explanation.