[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: A Time to ForgetChapter]
A Time to Forget CHAPTER 7
Fay 'arlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who works in San Francisco as a secretary, lost her fiance Jim Towers in the war. Unexpectedly, she inherits from her cousin Harriett Lester a walnut farm in the San Vicente Valley. 'There she meets a neighbor, Jeff Landeau, who lives wih his son David and his deceased wife's cousin Delia. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, offers to help Serena with the farm work, and she gratefully accepts his offer, becoming much interested in his wholesome. And buoyant attitude toward life.
Serena makes friends with young David, and Jeff and Luis help her with the first harvest.
Then the torrential rains come and flood Serena's land and her house. A huge oak tree, uprooted by the storm, destroys a screen porch.
Soon after Christmas, Jeff and Serena are married and go on a honeymoon trip to Mexico.
Upon their return, Delia greets them coldly.; LONE with Delia, Serena was tense. She talked too much, covering Delia's coldness, who went about her work tight-lipped, scarcely answering questions.
When she started to set the dining room table, Serena rose to help her. "No," Delia said, lifting out the Haviland china from the corner cupboard, "T'll tend to it myself."
Serena struggled to keep the rebuff from showing in her soft, brown eyes. "You're tired, driving all that way. You must go sit in the parlor."
Delia made an attempt to cover her rudeness. The sound of the returning car broke the awkward silence.
Serena ran through the house to the back porch, her arms outstretched in eagerness to David. A step behind his father, the boy halted. "Hello," he said with slow indifference, holding out his hand to ward off her embrace. She could not have been more surprised if the boy had come, leading with both fists. 'The color left her face, and she had to brace herself against the tailing before she could tell him how glad she was to see him. Relax, don't show there is anything wrong.
Relax and wait. © David started towards Delia, his face a question mark. She drew him to her side with an affectionate gesture. "You mind your manners, David, and tell Serena you're glad she's back." Her tone was that of a fond, admonishing parent. It was all Serena could do to keep from turning to Jeff, who stood there as puzzled as she.
Smiling brightly at David, she said, "If you'll go into the living room, you'll find some things you might like. But we're saving the best for you when we go home tonight." "Thanks," David answered and went into the living room, trailed by Delia, her face smug. HE couch was heaped with brightly-colored wooden _ toys.
Serena had bought the airplane and the child's gay carrousel made from discarded tin and bits of painted wood, with miniature figures astride the tiny animals.
There were the straw animals bought from street vendors and the wooden bull's head Jeff had bought from a boy playing in the street. 'There was also a Page 43 44 > a  boy's dream of a leather belt and wallet In spite of his show of indifference, David's eyes danced. "Oh, boy!" The exclamation died, half born on his lips. "Thanks, dad," he mumbled.
Leaving his gifts untouched, he walked outside to the barn. "TIL."
Jeff turned in anger to follow the boy. 'Don't, not now.' Serena touched his arm.
Everything inside her crumpled. ""There's something we don't understand." "There surely is. And I intend to find out." But his feet hesitated. "Boys get notions." Delia's voice was superior, her hands clasped under her white apron. "They pass quick enough if you leave them alone." She started for the kitchen, stopping to say, "Dinner will be ready in an hour, and I want you here on time. I can't have my biscuits ruined." "We'll be back in plenty of time, Delia." The words came automatically as she followed Jeff outside. "Tm going out to the barn, and I'm going to find out what's happening." His back was stern with purpose.
Matching her stride with his, Se rena debated with herself. Her first day with David was no time to start interfering. She thought she had some intuition; yet it had failed her today. "IT wouldn't, Jeff, not for a little while. Let's just act as if we hadn't noticed. We can't push him too far—yet." "All right." Jeff's reply was half sigh. Cn going out to the orchards to see the soil condition.
Want to get your boots and come along?" "T think I'd better go in and shower and change in Delia's honor, if you don't mind." She gave his arm an affectionate pat, glad to have a few minutes alone.
Luis was on the front lawn waiting. "Meeses, meeses," he cried, removing the old, white sailor cap he was wearing. He came running forward with his hand outstretched, his black eyes shining with tears.
With the sun on his silvering hair, he was, as on the first day she had seen him, clothed in radiance. "It's good to see you, compadre," she called gaily in Spanish. The word started the tears coursing anew down his withered brown cheeks. "Gracias, gracias!" He shook her hand again and again. Muy contento with the brown serape, he traced the design with his brown fingers, "Is good." VEN after she told him she was home to prepare for Delia's dinner, he lingered intentionally. "Did everything go all right while we were gone?" she helped him. His black eyes flashed.
Placing his gifts carefully on the floor, he faced her, his arms free for gesturing. "ay, that Mees Delia." His shoulders shrugged expressively, his mouth twisted in delicate mockery of Delia. "What was your trouble with Delia?" She asked him in Spanish. "Oh, Senora, I have no trouble." His denial was swift. "I keep myself separated from her at all pos sible times. It is with herself that she has trouble." His look asked if A TIME TO FORGET Serena understood, and added, "That senorita lives with ingratitude. For all that Don Jeff has done, she has no remembrance. She remembers only that she grows old without the strength of Don Jeff or the sweet youth of David."
Moving his hands in pantomime, he showed Jeff as the staff and David © as the light. "She thinks only that people will no longer salute her as the head of Don Jeff's household. To herself she says, 'Now I cannot have the expensive garments or prepare the splendid meals. I will have only my cousin who is older than I and who complains that her days of affliction have taken hold of her and that her soul is weary of life.' Is it not so?" He threw out his hands in a gesture of dislike and started to fold his serape.
Serena could have hugged him in sheer love, but she only said, "It is very difficult for her." "Difficult!"
Luis jerked himself upright, standing militantly in the doorway. "Is she," he demanded of Serena, "the first person in the world to grow old? Is she the first person to be bereft of family? No, God has not deserted her. It is she who has deserted God." His shoulders dropped wearily, then in one of his quicksilver moods, he smiled sweetly as a child. "Now it is Delia who has the sick soul. If she can be made to see she has many blessings to count," he raised one hand impressively above him, "for she still has strength, a splendid home, and the love of you and Don Jeff—if she can see these things, there is a cure for 2 her."
Stooping again, he picked up his gifts, settling them in his arms with a final gesture. "You must be of great endurance with her, Senora." Bowing, he trotted amiably away. He was barely out of the house before Jeff came in, the cool breath of the orchards and the smell of damp earth clinging to him. "We could have stayed longer," he said remorsefully. "It will be days before we can turn the soil."
Hugging her tightly, he whispered, "Glad to be home?" ERENA knew the _ question meant many things. "Wherever you are, Jeff," she answered, smoothing his windblown hair. But a part of her wished that she were still in Mexico, far away from Delia, and without problems to be solved. "I thought you were going to change your dress." His eyes said that he had seen her brown tweed suit before. "IT was, but Luis came in to talk, and you know Luis."
