[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
Page 3] Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SANDWICH ISLANDS:...
After bidding goodbye to those who had assisted us (in Maimea) we mounted our horses for a twenty five mile ride to Halaua in the North Kohala District.
Riding horseback through pleasant scenery to one accustomed to horses might seem a pleasure trip, but to one who is not it becomes a very arduous task. The scenery, most of the way, is very barren and rocky. At 6 o'clock we arrived at Halaua tired and exhausted from our long ride Thursday, with horses for only half our company, we started out for Honokani I can imagine some of our dear friends at home would have enjoyed seeing us on those little donkeys wending our zigzag way down the almost perpendicular face of the mountains The R. S.
Organization at Honokani is a lively one, awake to their duties and is managed as satisfactorily as any with which we have met, the sweet singing, by the young members of the Society as interspersed through the meeting, was a very pleasing feature. —E. D. N. HAIL THE GLAD NEW YEAR: No doubt many good resolutions have been made and will be kept, and it is always good to try even though one may sometimies fall short of the standard of excellence which he or she may desire to reach....
While we may realize that many things have been neglected in the past year and mistakes made, new resolves will be formed that in their earnestness and favor will help those upward and onward that diligently seek to do good and assist in the perfecting and uplifting of humanity, and the preparation for the great day of the Millenium. —Editorial WOMAN First to greet lovingly man at his birth, Last to forsake him when dying, First to make sunshine around his hearth, Last to lose heart and cease trying.
Last at the cross of her crucified Lord, First to behold him when risen, First to proclaim him to life restored, Bursting from death's gloomy prison. —Lu Dalton INTERESTING NEWS FROM CANADA: The Relief Society having no outside branches have made their annual meeting the occasion of general reports and an.
