[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: W. S. A. SPRINGVILLE. | Author: Unknown]

W. S. A. SPRINGVILLE.

	THE suffrage association of Springville
met in regular session on the 22nd of June,
1893, Prest, Sarah A. Boyer in the chair.
	After the opening exercises; Mrs. Ellen
Jakeman, who was present by special invita-


tion addressed the meeting for an hour.  Her
subject was “Suffrage” considered under
the following heads.
	Definition, literal and political sense;
claims for it, hereditary, constitutional,
governmental responsibility, influence-
social-moral and political, the training of
her children, in defense of right,-as wage
earners’ responsible beings; necessity for
purification of ballot box, honest and
economical administration of all depart-
ments of government, general improve-
ment, higher civilization.
	Mrs. Carrie Smith of Logan being
present as a visitor was invited to address
the meeting. Her life seems to have been
flowing in very pleasant channels, for she
expressed it as her opinion that women
enjoyed at the present more rights than
they made a proper use of. Thought it
was all right for women to vote if they
wished, but objected to their holding office.
Still admitted that she was not well posted
on the subject, having given her time and
attention outside of her duties as a mother
to the study of her religion. Was heartily
in favor of anything that would advance
the well being of either men or women.
	Mrs. Snow Young, also of Logan
addressed the meeting for a few moments,
said: “show me the women of a nation and
I will tell you what the men are, tell me
the characters of the women and I will tell
you the moral character of the men.” She
earnestly desired the success of suffrage.
She said many other pleasant and encourag-
ing things.
	Mrs. Sorensen, Bishop Harmer, John
S. Boyer Sen, and Mr. Waite, addressed
the audience. The latter gentlemen
digressed from the subject to eulogize Prest.
Boyer, which was heartily coincided in by
all suffragists present, who are acquainted
with her long and faithful labors in that
direction.
	The speeches were all worth recording,
but I have some modesty about taking
your space.
	On the following Sunday evening
Bishop John E. Booth, who had been
detained from the suffrage meeting by
business, gave the expected lecture. His
subject was the "Property rights of
Women,” handled in his usual masterly
style, to the edification of a large audience.
		ELLEN JAKEMAN.


