[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: MRS. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER was ap- | Author: Unknown]

	MRS. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER was ap-
pointed chairman of the section on care of
dependent and neglected children at the
recent International Congress of Charities
and Corrections at Chicago. Mrs. Spencer
also preached the Congress sermon on “The
Relation of the Church to Philanthropies
and Reform.”
	PRESIDENT CHENEY, of Bates College,
Lewiston, Me., in his baccalaureate address,
gave expression to a long-felt need when he
spoke last week for enlarged ideas and a
broad view of the possibilities of women.
	He argued for the presence of women on
the faculties of the colleges of the country.
Women on college faculties and on the
boards of trustees are needed in the interest
of male as well as female students.  Presi-
dent Cheney gave a timely word in its be-
half.—Ex.
	THE women of Kansas of all parties and
of no party have wisely left all differences
on other questions behind or out of sight,
while they work to secure the passage of
the suffrage amendment. The New York
World says, “They have organized in every
county, and it may be predicted they will
succeed,” They mean to succeed, as they
deserve to do.  The men of Kansas know
this, and they mean to see that the women
are not disappointed.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	DURING the World’s Congress on gov-
ernment, August 7—14, arrangements
have been made for six woman suffrage
meetings in the large halls, and in room 2
and 3, each seating 700 persons. Two of
these meetings will be in the morning, two
in the afternoon, and two in the evening.
	On Monday afternoon Rev. Anna Shaw
is announced; on Tuesday afternoon, in
the Hall of Columbus, Mrs. Lucy Stone
and Susan B. Anthony; on Wednesday
afternoon, in hall 3, Alice Stone Blackwell;
on Friday afternoon Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
Henry B. Blackwell, Rev. Ida C. Hultin,
and Samuel Gompers.—Ex.
	THE Federal Suffrage Association will
hold a Congress at Art Institute, Chicago,
August 9.  President Thomas Palmer,Hon.
C. C. Bonner, and Rev. Olympia Brown
have accepted invitations to deliver ad-
dresses.
	The New Cycle for June contains a full
report of the Federation Council of Wo-
men’s Clubs at the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, Chicago, May 18.
An important action was taken at this
meeting with reference to a “Federation
organ.” It was shown that while the
Federation had voted at a previous general
meeting to support The New Cycle as its
organ, the magazine has not been supported.
The last three numbers had been published
from the private fund of the editor, Mrs.
J.C. Croly, and unless capital was provided.
The New Cycle must suspend publication.
After lengthy discussion a committee con-
sisting of Mrs. Lindon W. Bates, Mrs.
Charlotte Emerson Brown and Mrs. J. C.
Croly was appointed to take charge of all
the interests of the magazine.  The com-
mittee was commissioned to issue two
thousand shares of stock at five dollars a
share, to be sold to clubs and club members.
As the organ of the Federation owned and
controlled thereby, The New Cycle will re-
sume publication in September.  Through
it, club documents and papers will be issued,
and reports of the work, methods and
anniversaries of local clubs will be given.
The Federation now numbers upwards of
three hundred local organizations, it
covers nearly every State in the Union, and
some abroad.—Ex.


