[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: SALT LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of this stake
of Zion convened in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this City, Friday June 30,
1893. President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. On the stand with the President was
her Counselor E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells,
acting as Secretary in the absence of Margaret A. Caine. Meeting opened with
singing, “Lord we come before thee now,”
etc., prayer was offered by E. B. Fletcher.
Singing, O, my Father thou that dwellest,"  
ect. Roll called and was responded to as

[Column 2]
follows, 19 branches represented by Presi-
dents, 11 by Counselors, 3 by Secretaries,
Treasurer one, teachers two, making in all
36 branches, leaving ten without represen-
tation. The President made some opening
remarks, regretted the delinquencies and
urged those present to make every effort to
awaken others to a realization of the im-
portance of being diligent in the work of
the Society, and seek to become more intelli-
gent upon all subjects, and especially to set
good examples in all places and at all
times, in the home and before the world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the silk in-
dustry the efforts that were being made to
encourage it and of Sisters Caine, Fosgreen
and Pyper going to Chicago to manufacture
it from the Utah cocoons, with the primi-
tive reel and loom that had been used here.
	Verbal reports—President Emma Wood-
ruff, Farmer’s Ward, Sugar House, President
Gibson, Mill Creek, President Hill, Union,
Secretary Smarts, South Jordan, Counselor
Holt, West Jordan,President Cutler, North
Jordan,President Pixton, Granger, Counse-
lor Park, Pleasant Green, President Hirst,
Riverton, President Silcock, Centre Ward,
President Whittaker, Brighton, President
Hazon. All the reports were favorable and
there seemed to be an excellent spirit
and feeling with them.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made a few re-
marks especially exhorting the sisters to
faithfulness and advancement in the practi-
cal work of the organization, said many
good things, cautioned all to act with wis-
dom. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
Singing Doxology, benediction by E.
Stevenson.
	Afternoon session: On the stand with
President Horne were her Counselors E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney also acting
Secretary E. B. Wells and Sisters E. Webb
and E. J. Stevenson. Meeting opened by
singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation” and prayer by Maria L. Nebeker,
singing, O, ye mountains high etc.
	President Horne made a few opening re-
marks and spoke a short time upon the
World’s Fair, particularly of the manufac-
tures and the accurate representations of
different countries,and also agriculture, and
described some of the State Buildings,
mentioned Illinois, Iowa, South Dakota and
described the corn palace most definitely,
Canada was not forgotten nor the cheese
weighing 22000 lbs.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon
spiritual topics entirely, and the many
testimonies we are receiving from day to
day.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells dwelt at some length
upon the World’s Fair exhibits, the
Woman’s Building including our own silk
exhibit, the Fine Arts, the Liberal Arts and
the General Buildings. 
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave an interesting
account of the convent of La Rabida where
Columbus called on his way to the Court of
Spain to ask for bread for himself and his
boy, when the old monk encouraged him to
persevere in his endeavors to discover a new
land, told him it was the will of the Lord,
described the room where Columbus slept,
it was filled with the paintings of him, and
of the period,artists differed in their ideas of
the subject. She said she had been deeply
interested in the Cliff Dwellings and the
bearing it had upon the authenticity of the
Book of Mormon and the proofs of a pre-
historic people. Her address was specially
entertaining.
	President Horne in closing the Conference


talked of the need of help there would be this
winter, so many being out of employment
and enjoined upon the sisters to take care of
the poor and let none suffer for the 
necessaries of life.
	Officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were sustained, and President Horne
spoke of the disasters that were coming 
which had been prophesied of by the 
Prophet Joseph, spoke of the sisters having 
been blessed in their absence and returning
home safely, the meeting held in connection
with the Congress etc. Singing, "Our God
we raise to thee." Conference then ad-
journed for three months, benediction by 
President Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
