OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
	Ethnology in hair.—Advantage is
being taken of the structure of human hair
to determine the different races of man-
kind. The hair of the North American In-
dian is cylindrical or round; that of the
white race is oval; and that of the negro is
eccentrically eliptical, a kind of flattened
oval. The oval hair has a greater number
of fibers on the sides, this condition
gives the tendency to curl or curve in that
direction. Cylindrical hair, such as that of
our Indians is equal on all sides, hence, its
lank, straight condition, as there is no ten-
dency to stretching or shrinking; it appears
that when this kind of hair is passed be-
tween rollers, so as to flatten it, it instantly
curls!
	Now, as the cylindrical hair is a type of
all natives of the continent of America,
that is to say of the purely aboriginals; and,
as the hair of the ancient inhabitants is also
proved to be cylindrical it is infered that our
Indians are the descendents of the ancient
Peruvians and their brethren.
	This is interesting to us, to whom the
records of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent are accessible and believed in as
a history; and is only one among the many
means being used to connect the present
with the past inhabitants of this great con-
tinent.
					For the EXPONENT
	The Transit of Venus.—This event is
of such immense importance to the scien-
tific world, that no less than thirty suitable
stations have been chosen for observation.
The United States, Great Britain, France,
Germany, and Russia vie with each other in
the pursuit of knowledge that will, it is to
be hoped, determine the exact distance
of the sun from the earth.
	Halley, the great astronomer, was the
first to point out the application of the tran-
sit of Venus across the sun's disk as a means
of ascertaining correctly the solar distance.
The next transit occurs on the 8th of Decem-
ber of the present year, when observations


will be made by the most skillful scientists,
aided by instruments of the most approved
construction.
	The last transit of this planet that was
visible from the earth, occured in 1769;
after this year, the next that will be seen
will be in the year 2004. As the present
transit will occur in the winter, observations
will have to be made south of the equator.
The problem is to obtain, by angular meas-
urement, two sides of a triangle which be-
ing known will enable the third side to be
determined


