		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 28th, 1874.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO THE GIRLS.
	My Dear Young Lady Friends:—I belong
to a Ward Retrenchment Association; but
as I am too bashful, or at least have not
power to stand up in meeting and express
my feelings and ideas in any way satisfac-
tory to myself, I have determined to give
you some of my thoughts through the EX-
PONENT, if our respected editor will kindly
permit me to do so.
	I think, then, that it is time every young
lady in our communities was seeking with
more diligence than has heretofore been
manifested, to improve herself in every
possible way, for Zion's sake as well as for
her individual good and consequent hap-
piness.
	It is a well known fact that the aim and
object of man's life, and woman's too, is to
obtain the greatest possible amount of hap-
piness, to secure enjoyment and pleasure.
So anxious are many to do this, that they
even accept those pleasures which, if they
would reflect, they would know must be but
momentary. Indeed, they will often grasp
those things which are only calculated to
bring pain and misery, believing that they
behold in them some beauty which may,
perchance, prove a present joy, and not
waiting to convince themselves that it may
or may not last forever; so full of haste are
they in their blind pursuit after pleasure.
	Another well established truth is that the
more intelligence that people possess, the
more enjoyment they are capable of receiv-
ing. I should think that this idea alone,
after a person has become conversant with
it, would be sufficient to awaken the strong-
est desire to obtain true wisdom and enlight-
enment. And it is, I am sure, with every
person of sense who will stop to consider.
I will try to illustrate the view I take of
this subject.
	Let us suppose that you and I enter a pic-
ture gallery. You have studied the art of 
painting and understand the nice points
connected therewith; such as harmony of
colors, arrangement of forms and all those
things. I have never given any attention


to them and do not know the difference be-
tween a good picture and a bad one. Of
course I would look with some degree of
pleasure on the beautiful works of the artist;
but your appreciation of them and delight
at beholding them, would far surpass any-
thing I could realize. You could almost see
the hand and eye of the artist at work in all
his fine touches, so well would you compre-
hend his objects and designs. While I might
be forgetful that the painting ever had a de-
signer or consummater—just as thoughtless,
indifferent people gaze upon the works of 
creation around them, forgetful that there
is a God.
	I believe it is, and will be the same with
us in relation to heavenly things. Unless
we study upon them and treasure up knowl-
edge concerning them, we never will be able
to appreciate and enjoy their glory and
magnanimity. Unless we learn to know
the will of the Lord concerning us, we can
not certainly know that we are living in ac-
cordance therewith. Unless we seek first
the kingdom of God and His righteousness
we have no promise of securing to ourselves
all these other good things which are so
much sought after and so desirable in the
sight of all. And I can testify, for a truth,
that I know for myself, for I have proven
though I am but young, that the safest and
only sure way of securing present comfort—
if we look no farther and say nothing of
eternal happiness—is by learning and keep-
ing the commandments of God. In them is
contained all that is necessary to make us
supremely wise; and true wisdom is the
only source of true happiness.
	TO THE EDITOR.—I am but a young be-
ginner, but knowing the charity which is
felt for the young ladies who seek to improve
themselves, by the elder sisters, I feel no
hesitancy in submitting this to your kind
consideration. When I have become a bet-
ter scholar and can write more intelligently,
you may publish my name; but for the pres-
ent, please call me 			GUESS WHO.


