EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Dame Fashion is always saying some-
thing, and now she says, “Wear high tor-
toise-shell combs again.”
	It will be a relief to a great many ladies
to learn that the latest Paris skirt just nice-
ly clears the ground.
	Europe appears to be anxiously looking
forward to a grevious war, though at pres-
ent a great calm seems to prevail there.
	Gentlemen editors are making remarks
on the said-to-be-fact that Miss Sherman
had, among other things in her bridal ward-
robe, one hundred pairs of stockings. We 
would like to know if it is any legitimate
affair of theirs if she had three hundred,
provided they haven't to pay for them.
	It is stated on reliable authority that or-
ganizations of white men are being formed
in all the Southern States, to defeat the
colored man and the carpet bagger. An ex-
change says, "This means a war of races."
By prophetic discernment it was proclaimed
years ago that such a war would come.
	Toronto, Canada, has advanced a step
ahead by electing a woman, Mrs. B. Herman,
as City Treasurer. She will doubtles assist
in proving that such positions of public trust
may be as faithfully and judiciously sus-
tained by daughters of Eve as they ever
were by any of Adam’s sons.
	By the “Brooklyn” boiler explosion,
which occurred on the 22nd ult., in the river
twelve miles below Detroit, Michigan, it
was reported that sixteen persons were in-
stantaneously killed, and a number more
badly injured. This is but one of a series
of shocking events of a similar nature and
of recent date, by which almost countless
souls have been suddenly ushered into eter-
nity.
	An editor of forty years standing says
he never lost a dollar by a female subscriber.
He thinks women make it a point of con-
scientious duty to pay for anything they bar-
gain for. We heard a photographic artist say,
not long since, that he scarcely considered it
necessary to book anything against a woman;
he never knew one to forget or fail to pay a
debt. Such expressions in woman's favor
argue well for the rights she claims.
	At Oak Ridge cemetery Springfield, Ill.,
a statue of the late President Abraham Lin-
coln has recently been completed upon the
spot where rest his earthly remains. The
event of unveiling the statue in the pres-
ence of an immense crowd, was conducted
with grand ceremony. Appropriate music
was followed by eloquent orations. Many
good things were spoken and read; among
the best, perhaps, was the statement that
the statue was completed and paid for.
	The second session of the Woman’s Con-
gress was held in Chicago last month. Mrs.
Livermore presided, and a large number of
representative women were present. Mat-
ters concerning the education and general
improvement of woman were freely and
ably discussed, and reports and suggestions
upon the same subjects were read. The ses-
sion lasted three days. It may yet appear
that the cause of woman progresses slowly,
but it is becoming every day more sure. 
	Woeful accounts are given of the suf-
fering inhabitants in the grasshopper re-
gions of Nebraska. Some are said to be in the
neighborhood of starvation, and thousands
will have to be fed by charity. These
scenes of distress are near home; and after
the several grasshopper seasons which have
lately been experienced in some portions of
this Territory, such reports can but remind
the people that through the mercies of God,
they have thus far been saved from such
calamities, by hearkening in a measure to
the counsel of His servants, to "live within
their means" and "store up their grain."
	Political arithmeticians have demon-
strated that if every man would work four
good hours in each day, on something of
use, it would be labor sufficient to procure
all the necessary comforts of life. No such
thing as want would be known, and the re-
maining twenty hours might be for rest,
leisure and pleasure. As nothing is said
about the employment of woman, we sup-
pose her whole time might be given to self-
improvement and the exercise, of her one,
unmistakable, uncontrovertible right—to
bring forth others of her species, to work
and be worked for.
	The officers of the Treasury at Wash-
ington, have, after much discussion upon
the subject of relatives in office, concluded
that "a person having a father or mother,
son or daughter in any department of the
government cannot be employed in the
Treasury department, and any person now
employed in the departments who have any
of the above named relatives in the govern-
ment service must be removed." Quite a
number of vacancies will be the result of
this new order, and in some instances, al-
most entire families will be thrown out of
employ. But after all the movement may
not be an injudicious one.


