THE BOSTON SEWING GIRLS
THEIR PITIFUL LIFE DESCRIBED BY ONE
		WHO HAS FELT IT.
	The following was related by a lady of
good sense, as the result of her personal ex-
perience and observation among the sewing
girls of one of the large firms in Boston:
	When I first came here to Boston I did
not have quite as much money as I wanted,
and so thought I would just go down to
——, and take my sewing machine and
see what I could do at that work. I didn't
need to do it particularly, because I could
earn more money at taking care of the sick,
and, besides, I was more used to it; but I
went more than half to see how the girls
worked and got paid and were treated. So
I took my machine and started—I had to
pay for having it carried up stairs, and to
climb so many flights that when I arrived, I
was not fit to run a machine for half an hour.
	Well, I supposed, of course I should earn
as much as a dollar and a half a day—I did
not want to raise my expectations, so put it,
as I thought, low,—and thought, perhaps,
after I got used to it I should earn more.
They gave me a linen suit to make up; the
stitching, bands, ruffles, cuffs, and collar, all
to be finished complete for sale, and the wo-
man said to me (seeing probably that I
looked as if I knew how to sew) "I suppose
you can make two of these in a day." I
am pretty used to sewing, was a dressmaker
when I was first married, but that rather
surprised me—two in a day! Well, I
thought, of course I shall get two dollars or
more for them, and that will be doing pret-
ty well. I made that one suit in a day, and
how much do you suppose I was paid for it?
Seventy cents!
	And there were seventy-five girls or more
in that room, some young and pretty, many
with no homes, and with their board to pay
out of seventy cents a day.
	None of them could make more than that,
and many were wholly inexperienced, so
made much less. The second day I was
there they gave me a white wrapper to 
make, with insertion stitched in, and hems
and tucks, and that took me a day and a
half, and I had for it ninety cents, while a
white suit covered with ruffles and inser-
tion, which took me three days, brought the
enormous price of $1.50. then the fore-
woman—and it does seem as if they were
always selected for their hardness of heart
—gave the work merely cut out, no putting
together or showing how it should be done.
	And these poor girls, many of whom had
never even made their own clothes, had to
put these suits together as best they could,
often taking the best part of the day, and if
any mistake were made it had to be correct-
ed, and the work was not paid for when
made wrong, or part was deducted. One 
day one of the new girls came crying back
to the work room; she had finished the suit
and put the sleeves in wrong, (there was no
possible way for an inexperienced girl to
tell how to do it,) and she had them to rip
out and put in again. It made my heart
ache to see her cry. I thought of my own
little girl, and I put down my work and
helped her to do it, and showed her so she
would not make the mistake again.
	Then I told her to bring every garment to
me, and I would tell her how to put it to-
gether, and after a while all the girls did so,
and I helped them all and tried to encour-
age them.  "You won't earn much in that
way," said the forewoman to me. "I don't
care," said I.  "I suppose if I worked stead-
ily all day I could make two suits, for I 
knew how they should go together, but I
can't be selfish when I see these girls work-
ing so blindly and earning so little, and after
all getting it wrong."
	Well, I couldn't stand it long; climbing
all those stairs, working like a mill horse all
day, made me so weak that I had to give it
up.
	But that is the way the sewing girls live,
(and in one store in the city, their pay is
less.)  Truly, as one of them said, "they
earn nothing and find themselves." Then
they sit, all day long, sewing, sewing, wear-
ing themselves out, ruining health, and per-
haps, after all their efforts driven to wrong
from sheer disgust at the fruits of doing
right.  I remember two very pretty girls
who had worked there long and faithfully.
	One of them said to me one day: "We
won't stand this any longer. We can make
more money and not work so hard, and we
mean to do it." "How?" said I. "Oh,
never mind how," one answered. I thought
in a minute how they were tempted, and 
talked to them long and seriously, but oh
dear! oh dear! if our fine ladies only knew
how the life-blood, happiness and honor of
many a young girl is stitched away with 
their ruffles and hems, they would be more
merciful to their fallen sisters.
	And then I suppose, this morning, both mem-
bers of the firm have gone to church, and
devoutly prayed for forgiveness of their sins,
and listened to the prayer for fallen women,
and never thought or cared how many of
these have cried for mercy at their door. It
makes my heart ache to talk about it! You
may talk about woman suffrage, and you
may talk about dress reform, I will go for
anything and fight for anything that will
give these girls a chance to become good
women, and get fair wages for their work.
—"Homestead."


