PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Improve yourself and you benefit the
world.
	A married girl of thirteen seeking a di-
vorce on the ground that she is too young,
is one of the latest social developments of
Indianapolis.
	A school for teaching spinning and weav-
ing is to be established in the Canton of
Zurich, and a sum of 200,000 francs has
been subscribed for its endowment.
	During a hurricane in Kansas, the coun
ty treasurer became so terrified that he ac-
knowledged a defalcation of $1,500. After
the wind had subsided, he denied it.
	The most reverend, the Archbishop of
Westminster, England, has forbidden female
singers in churches in his archdiocese. He
may be a man of superior judgment, but we
don't admire his taste for music.
	French statistics show that there are
cities of fifteen thousand inhabitants in that
country without a physician. The same
figure also indicates that the per centum of
mortality is lightest where there are fewest
doctors.
	Late advices from Montana represent
that small bands of Indians are depredating
about the mouth of the Musselshell. A par-
ty of woodchoppers were murdered, and
another man burned at the stake. Setting
Bull's band are charged with the last named
crime. 
	A Detroit young woman tried to be
aristocratic and did not look at the money
that she gave the horse-car conductor, but
he meekly gave her back the lozenge on
which was written "I'll never cease to love
thee," and said that he was an orphan with
five little brothers to support and must be
excused.
	There are now living in Rhehoboth, Bris-
tol County, Mass., about thirty persons who
are eighty years of age and upwards, in a
population of two thousand, a circumstance
of which few towns can boast. Mrs. Phebe
Bullock, who on the 12th of July completed
her eighty-fifth year, has, since the opening
of spring, woven with her own hands about
one hundred yards of rag carpeting.
	"Mrs. Woodhull crossed the continent
with free passes for all her party," says the
San Francisco "Chronicle." "And she left her
money matters at the Golden Gate in charge
of a judge." And the Detroit "Free Press"
says--"Out West here we don't get red be
hind the ears and holler: 'Who paid the
Woodhulls' fare to Europe?' We are sim-
ply thankful they went." Poor Vic.!


