DIVERSIONS. 
	A good suggestion is like a crying baby:
it should always be carried out.
	What is the champion conundrum—
Life; because everybody has to give it up.
	Since the beginning of the temperance
crusade a great many ladies have been ad-
mitted to the bar.
	What is the difference between a church
organist and the influenza?—One knows
the stops and the other stops the nose.
	“Ah!” yawned a bachelor, “this world is
but a gloomy prison.” “To those in solitary
confinement,” added a witty lady.
	A Troy woman says that if death loves a
shining mark, it is singular that he has not
aimed at her husband’s nose before this.


A small Milwaukee boy thinks it absurd
to ask $50 for a thrashing machine when
his mother only pays $2 a pair for slippers.
	A man advertises for a competent person
to take the sales of a medicine, and adds—
"it will prove highly lucrative to the under-
taker.
	THERE are two reasons why some people
don't mind their own business; one is they
haven't any business, and the other is that
they haven't any mind.
	"WHERE a woman," says Mrs. Parting-
ton, "has been married with a congealing
heart, and one that beats desponding to her
own, she will never want to enter the mari-
time state again.
	A minister asked a tipsy fellow, leaning
up against a fence, where he expected to go
when he died. "If I can't get along any
better than I do now," he said, "I shan't go
anywhere. I'll stay where I am!"
	THE other day a Brooklyn policeman, in
making out a charge against an arrested
party, wrote: "The prisoner set upon me
disorderly, and called me an ass, and a pre-
cious ruffian, and an idiot—all of which I
certify to be true."
	DISCONTENTED Cabby (to ladies, who
wishing to get rid of their small change,
have tendered him one fourpenny piece,
two threepenny ditto, one penny, one half-
penny, and two farthings—the sum total
amounting to his proper fare: "Well 'ow
long might yer both a' been in saving up 
for this treat?"—Punch.
	THE other day a minister offered prayer
at the laying of a corner-stone. A brisk
young reporter bustled up and said: "I
wish you would give me the manuscript of
that prayer." "I never write out my pray-
ers," responded the preacher. "Well," said
the reporter, "I couldn't hear a word you
said." "I wasn't praying to you," quickly
responded the parson.


