ANECDOTES.
	It is related of a minister who was noted
for his long sermons with many divisions
that one day, when he was advancing among
his teens, he reached at last a kind of rest-
ing-place in his discourse, when, pausing to
take a breath, he asked the question, "And
what shall I say more?" A voice from the
congregation earnestly responded, "Say
Amen!"
	Bunyan, the author of "Pilgrims Pro-
gress," on being cast into prison, made a
flute of one of the rails of the stool belong-
ing to his cell. The keeper often heard
sweet music, but could not trace it, as Bun-
yan, on his approach always replaced the rail
in the stool. The officers searched in vain
for the mysterious sounds, but Bunyan kept
his secret, and the baffled men were forced
to believe them supernatural.
	Gov. Woodson made a speech in Lafayette
County, Missouri, the other day which it
was hoped would have a beneficial effect in
inducing the Grangers to join the Democratic
party. At the close of the effort a particu-
larly attentive Granger was asked what he
thought of it. Pondering a moment he re-
plied:—“It reminds me of one of my cows.
She raises her tail higher, bellows and paws
the ground, and makes more fuss than any
other critter on the farm, and gives less
milk."
	One evening, a lady, who belongs on the
editorial staff of one of the leading dailies
of New York, had been detained by office
duties until rather a late hour. Living on
the Heights in Brooklyn, it was not much
of a venture to go home without an escort,
so she started. On the boat a gentleman(?)
said, "Are you alone?" "No sir," said the
lady, and when the boat touched stepped off.
"I thought you said you were not alone,"
said the fellow, stepping to her side again.
"I am not," replied the lady. "Why I 
don't see any one; who is with you?"
"God Almighty and the angels sir—I am
never alone." "You keep too good compa-
ny for me madam; good night."
	Gordon, the Scottish painter, used to tell
this story of Lord Palmerston: "I had ex-
hibited for years, but without any particular
success. One year, however—the year be-
fore I painted ‘The Corsicans’—Lord Pal-
merston took a sudden fancy to my picture
called 'Summer in the Lowlands,' and bought
it at a high figure. His lordship at the
same time made inquiries after the artist,
and invited me to call upon him. I waited
upon his lordship accordingly. He compli-
mented me upon the picture, but there was
one thing about it he could not understand.
'What is that, my lord?' I asked. 'That
there should be such long grass in a field
where there are so many sheep,' said his
lordship, promptly, and with a merry twin-
kle of the eye. It was a decided hit this;
and having bought the picture and paid for
it, he was entitled to his joke. 'How do
you account for it?' he went on, smiling,
and looking first at the picture and then at
me. 'Those sheep, my lord,' I replied,
'were only turned into the field the night
before I finished the picture.' His lordship
laughed heartily, and said 'Bravo' at my re-
ply, and gave me a commission for two
more pictures.
	An anecdote of Greeley enlivened Mrs.
Lillie Deveraux Blake's argument before the
Judiciary Committee of the New York As-
sembly, the other day. She wished to il-
lustrate by it the proposition that a strong
man did not always play the roll of protect-
or of his fellow-sister. And this is the sto-
ry: On a certain occasion, when Mr. Greeley
was quite a young man, and lived in a coun-
try infested by wild animals, he went call-
ing on a distant neighbor late one afternoon.
After spending an hour or two of delightful
social intercourse, he received an intimation
from the head of the house that it was time
for him to turn his steps homeward. Hor-
ace seemed loath to act upon the advice
given him, and, with that frankness that al-
ways characterized him, bluntly confessed
that, as his path home lay through a piece
of wolf-infested woods, he was afraid to go.
At which the farmers two buxom and bounc-
ing daughters volunteered to see Horace
home, and, their guardianship being accept-
ed, did actually accompany their guest to
the threshold of his own home.


A week conclusion—Saturday night.


