THE FUTURE.
	Since the Democratic politicians have, as ap-
pears, generally sided with the liquor interests and
against the women, the probability is that the line
drawn between the parties of the near future will
be on one side Woman Suffrage and Temperance,
on the other side the liquor interest and the Dem-
ocracy. While it is true that the crusade move-
ment has not been that which the Woman Suffra-
gists unite in, for they prefer law to its violation,
and are laboring for recognition under the law,
not for aggression without law; yet it appears la-
mentably true, that the Democratic party and the
liquor interests combining with that party have
braced themselves against yielding to women their
political rights. The absurdity of this in the first
place is its most remarkable feature; differances of
opinion feelings and modes of action exist as
prominently among women as among men; all wo-
men cannot be classified as of one view on matters
of public policy any more than of religion; neither
can one class of women be representative of all
any more than the same among men.
	Women have as true individuality, and possibly
more so than men; they certainly have than poli-
ticians. Inasmuch as the views of women deffer
on the crusade movement, so do they also differ on
the question of prohibition or no prohibition li-
cense or no license. These are matters of judg-
ment. Temperance or intemperence is a question
of morality. If such a thing is ever possible as
purity in a political party, then will the watch-
word be, "Do justice though the skies fall." The
women demand the franchise on the broad ground
of justice, not for any single aim or the further-
ance of any side issue. They demand it for self-
protection. They demand it as a right which no
man or party of men have a right to withhold
from them. The question of how will they vote
has no place at all in the proposition. They will
vote just as men vote, according to their well-di-
gested views, but probably with more principle.
But one thing is certain, their votes will never be
bought with a drink of whisky or a glass of ale,
and their principles will not be conveniently elas-
tic as those of male politicians. The chances are
that the votes of the women will be on the side
of good order, whatever that may be, and if the
Democracy object to that the hurt in the long run
is to them and not to the women.—Toledo Journal.


