SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Laura Honey Stevenson has been singing
at the theatre, and her voice is accounted
as sweet and luxurious as her name indicates
......A new paper has been started in this
city, the name of which is the Utah "Scan-
dinave." It is published in three languages,
the Swedish, Danish and English...... Three
hundred and sixty woolen spindles and
five hundred and forty cotton spindles are
worked in the Beaver woolen and cotton fac-
tory......Sixteen prizes were awarded by the
committee on horses at the late stock fair
......Literary societies in the different wards
are re-opening for the winter, and electing
their officers......A woman in this city sepa-
rated from her husband, hired out to do
house-work, broke her engagement with
her employers and got married again, all
within a week. No "slow and easy" about
her...... Nineteen indictments were lately
reported in one day by the Grand Jury in
this city. The Court won't be out of work
for some time...... Since the close of the fall
Conference, Sunday services have been dis-
continued for the winter at the Tabernacle,
and afternoon and evening meetings are
held in the several wards.
			POLITICAL
	Ohio Democrats have lately elected a
judge of the State Supreme Court, for the
first time, in more than twenty years...... In
Connecticut, towns of more than five thou-
sand inhabitants are to be allowed two rep-
resentatives in the Legislature...... New
Mexico has instructed her Congressional
delegate to accept the proposition made by
several senators to unite the Territories,
Arizona and New Mexico...... At pres-
ent, a war between Japan and China seems
inevitable...... The government of Uruguay,
South America, will issue four million
dollars of paper money..... Election excite-
ment has been running high all over the
country but is partially subsiding..... The
Legislature of Vermont has elected Geo. F.
Edmunds for United States Senator for six
years from next March......Indiana elects a 
Democrat to the State Senate over a Repub-
lican by a majority of one...... It is reported
that Grant is tired of the talk about the
"Third term," and will refuse to run for the
Presidency again.
			LITERARY.
	The Stockton "Leader," Laura DeForce
Gordon's lively little journal, has entered
its second year. Success to it..... The young
ladies of the Collegiate Institute of Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., publish a paper called the
"Tyro." A most appropriate name for a
school journal...... A new illustrated Parisian
paper is announced entitled, "The Journal
of Young Mo hers," which will treat of the
health of infants, modes of caring for them,
their clothing, &c...... "Sketches of Illustri-
ous Soldiers" is the name of a new book, by
James Grant Wilson, which will probably
become popular...... A "Woman's Peace So
ciety," of London, offers $100 for the best
tract written by a woman on the subject of
peace..... Abba Gould Woolson is editing a
book on Dress Reform..... "Moore's Rural
New Yorker" is twenty-five years old.


THE women of New Jersey were enfran-
chised from 1776 until 1807, a period of thir-
ty-one years. The right to vote has since
that time been unlawfully and unjustly
withheld from the women citizens of Amer-
ica, with the exceptions of Wyoming
and Utah during the last few years.


