HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday, the 26th inst., has been designa-
ted by President Grant as the day to be ob-
served as a National Thanksgiving day.
	A slight fall of snow, the first of the season,
appeared on the 28th ult., in this valley, as if
to remind the inhabitants that winter was ap-
proaching, and hasten them to make ready
for it.
	The time of year has again arrived,
when the labors of the Relief Societies can be
best appreciated, by the needy ones whose
homes are gladdened by cheery visits and still
more comforting offerings.
	President Brigham Young and company
started for his winter home in St. George on
the 29th ult. His health, though still feeble,
is improving, and he journeys with care and
prudence, attended by the good wishes and
faith of many thousands, for his perfect recov-
ery and prolonged life.
	MRS. Nelson of Tooele is the first woman
in the Territory, we believe, who has been in-
dicted by our U.S. officials. She is a foreigner
by birth and has been arrested upon a charge
of illegal voting at the August election. As her
husband though a foreigner claims to be natu-
ralized, it appears that women as well as men
who were born aliens, must be naturalized in
order to become legal voters, according to the
views of some of our officials.
	All the stock specimens exhibited at the
late Stock Fair were of rare quality, and the
whole affair was a satisfactory one; as the Des-
erest Agricultural and Manufacturing Society
have always managed to bring before the pub-
lic when they have attempted anything of the
kind. Four lady equestrians took part in the
races; namely Mrs. R. W. Wilson, Miss Edith
Clawson, Mrs. Joseph A. Young, and Mrs. B.
H. Young. A prize was awarded each one. 
	Among others, Hon. George Q. Cannon
has again been indicted for alleged "lascivious
cohabitation," and placed under bail of five
thousand dollars. How long such persecutions
of the Saints will go on it is impossible to
judge; but it does appear that none but
the most bigoted enemies of peace would per-
severe in repeating such allegations, in the face
of the decision rendered by the Supreme Court
of the United States in '72.


For the EXPONENT.
		DON'T LET TALENT RUST.
	As by constant friction steel is kept highly
polished, so by constant exercise is talent
ever at its brightest. All our powers grow
by use. If we neglect to cultivate the habit
of observation, we might as well walk
through the world blindfolded. We lose
our faculty—what artists call our "touch"—
by neglect of practice on other things be-
sides the piano. The man who seldom
reads, reads slowly; the woman whose
writing is confined to an unfrequent letter
to some absent child spends more time
over that than does a practical writer over
a dozen pages of manuscript. Exercise of


possessed talent is absolutely necessary,
then if we would retain our gifts. For ex-
ample: if our occupation is sedentary, we
need plans for walks, rides and active games
to keep our muscles lithe and serviceable.
But if our employment gives us enough
muscular action, it is not one whit less im-
portant to our health of body that we should
plan for mental exercise—for employment
enough of our memory and our reasoning
powers to keep them from rusting. And, in
either case, that life must be a dwarfed and
unhealthy one that does not provide exer-
cise for our spiritual faculties—for worship,
and charity, and patience, and magnanim-
ity. Exercise of soul, mind and body can
alone bring us to the stature of the perfect
man.


