AN INCIDENT IN THE CARS.
	On the whole pleasant traits of character
are not common in the cars. This opinion I
expressed to my friend Summers the other day.
In reply to my remarks he related a little ad-
venture, which, as it is apropos, and moreover,
involves a little love and sentiment, I give it
without apology, and in his own words. It ap-
pears that in the most unlikely places, love and
sentiment may be discovered.
	"I was escorting home the lovely Charlotte
—, to whom at that time I was quite devot-
ed. Charlotte could scarcely find room to
spread her crinoline and arrange her volumin-
ous flounces. I stood up near her there being
no vacant seat.
	After a few minutes, a poor woman came in,
who deposited a basket of clothes on the front
platform, and held in her arms a small child
while a little girl clung to her arms. She
looked tired and weary, but there was no va-
cant seat; to be sure Charlotte might have
condescended to contract her flounces but she
did not. Beside her, however, sat a very
lovely and elegant young woman, who seemed
trying, by moving down closer to others, to
make space enough for the stranger between
herself and Miss D—. At last she succeeded,
and with the sweetest blush I ever saw she in-
vited the poor female to be seated. Charlotte
D— drew her drapery around her and blush-
ed, too, but it was not a pretty blush at all and
she looked annoyed at the proximity of the
new comer, who was clean and decently though
thinly clad.
	The unknown lady drew the little girl upon
her lap, and wrapped her velvet mantle around
the small half clad form, and put her muff over
the half-frozen little hands.
	So great was the crowd that I alone seemed
to observe. The child shivered--the keen wind
from the door blew upon her unprotected neck.
I saw the young lady quietly draw from under
her mantle a little woolen shawl which she
softly put on the shoulders of the little one;
the mother looked on with confused wonder.
After a short time she arose to leave the cars,
and would have removed the shawl, but the
unknown gently whispered, 'No, keep it for
her.' The woman did not answer, the conduc-
tor hurried her out, but her eyes swam with
tears. I noticed her as she descended to a base-
ment, and I hastily marked the house.
	Soon after my unknown also rose to depart.
I was in despair, for I wanted to follow and
discover her residence, but could not leave
Miss D—.
	How glad, then, I was to see her bowing, as
she passed out, to a mutual acquaintance who
stood in the doorway. From him, ere many
minutes, I learned her name and address.
	To shorten the story as much as possible, that
lady is now my wife. In the small incident
which introduced her to me, she showed her
real character. A few days after our marriage
I showed her the blessed crimson shawl, which
I redeemed from its owner, and shall keep as
a memento. There are sometimes pleasant
things to be found in unexpected places; cer-
tainly I may be said to have picked out my
wife in the cars."--"Baltimore Review."


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London postoffice.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.
	A BOAT voyage with a kite as the
motive power is to be attempted from
Bridgeport, Ct., to New York City. The
kite is 12 by 20 feet, and will take a boat
containing three persons.


