INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	Professor Cairnes, says in reply to Pro-
fessor Goldwin Smith's argument against
"Woman Suffrage."
	Vermont boasts a host of smart old ladies,
among whom the following are named:
Hannah Bowen of Bethel, aged ninty-two,
wife of S. Bowen, is holding her own with
the other young folks at picking hops, hav-
ing worked several days this season in the
field. Brandon has a Mrs. Jusrus Hyatt,
aged eighty-two years, who walked from
her residence, a few days ago, to Leicester,
a distance of six miles, and then wanted to
walk back the same day. Vershire boasts of
Mrs. Lucas Hinkley, who is ninety-two
years of age and has been spinning at sev-
eral different places. In one place she spun
twenty knots a day, and knit a large mitten
every day, for eighty days in succession.
	As a rule there exist no living descend-
ants in the male line, from the great au-
thors, artists, statesmen, soldiers of England.
There is no such descendant of Chaucer,
Shakespeare, Spenser, Butler, Dryden, Pope,
Cowper, Goldsmith, Scott, Byron, or Moore;
not one of Drake, Cromwell, Monk, Marl-
borough, Peterborough, or Nelson; not one
of Stafford, Ormond, or Claredon; not one of
Addison, Swift, or Johnson, not one of Wal-
pole, Bolingbroke, Chatham, Pitt, Fox,
Burke, Gra[-]tan or Canning; not one of Ba-
con, Locke, Newton, or Davy; not one of
Hume, Gibbon, or Macaulay; not one of
Hogarth, or Reynolds; not one of Garrick,
John Kemble, or Edmund Kean. It would
be easy to make a similar American list,
beginning with Washington, of whom it is
said that "Providence made him childless
that his country might call him Father."
	If a child wants a light to go to sleep by,
give it one. The sort of Spartan firmness
which walks off and takes away the candle
and shuts all the doors between the house-
hold cheer and warmth and the pleasant stir
of evening mirth, and leaves a little son or
daughter to hide its head under the bed-
clothes and get to sleep the best it can, is
not at all admirable. Not that the mother
means to be cruel, when she tries this or
that hardening process, and treats human
nature as if it were clay to be moulded into
any shape she may please. Very likely, she
has no idea whatever of the injury and suf-
fering she causes, or perhaps her heart aches;
but she perseveres, thinking she is doing
right.
	"If I were asked to name the principal
element of weakness in the family as things
now stand, I should have no hesitation in
pointing to the want of sufficient subjects
of common interest between man and wo-
man. It is owing to this that matrimonial
engagements are entered into so rarely on
the basis of any broad intellectual sympa-
thy, such as might furnish some security
for lasting affection and so often at the bid-
ding of impulses and fancies that do not out-
live the honeymoon; and it is owing to the
same cause that so very large a proportion
of the lives of most husbands and wives are
spent practically apart, with little or no
knowledge on the part of either of the ob-
jects or aims which engross the greater por-
tion of the other's thoughts and energies."
	Curious to relate, from the conclusion of
several surgeons in the German army that
detriment to health and even death itself
have resulted from the practice of wearing
leather shoes in wet weather, some of the
scientific societies of the Continent have
recommended the manufacture of wooden
shoes for soldiers, out-door laborers, and
others who are obliged to be abroad with-
out regard to the elements. An experien-
ced workman from France was a short time
since called to Germany to superintend
the manufacture of wooden shoes on an ex-
tensive scale in the latter country. These
are represented as being light and easy to
wear, and are provided with a small cushion
within the upper side to obviate any pres-
ure on that part of the foot; they are also
said to be of neat and pleasing appearance,
blackened or varnished; are made large
enough to accommodate comfortable stock-
ings, and are furnished with leather straps.


IT is not every one whose theory about en-
dorsing notes is as good as that of the small
Scotch laird who was waited upon by a
neighbor, to request his name as, an accom-
modation, to a bill for twenty pounds, at
three months;
	"Na, na, I canna do that."
	"Why for no, laird? Ye hae done the
same thing for ithers."
	"Ah, Tammas, there's wheels within
wheels ye ken naething aboot. I canna
do't."
	"It's a sma' affair to refuse me laird."
	"Weel, ye see, Tammas, if I were to pit
my name till't, ye wad get the siller frae
the bank, and when the time came round
ye wadna be ready, and I would hae to pay't;
an' then you and me wad quarrel; sae we
may just as weel quarrel noo, as lang as the
siller's in ma pouch."


When is a loaf of bread said to be inhab-
ited? When it has a little Indian in it.


