DON'T TRIFLE.
	It is a trite fact that to ensure success in any
kind of business, business must be done meth-
odically, and thoroughly, with perseverance
and care. That incompleteness and mistakes
are occasioned by neglect or inattention. In
the least as well as the greater concerns of life,
this rule is unexceptionable; and much of the
prosperity and happiness of mankind depend
upon a strict observance of the same.
	Not only in the transacting of business be-
tween man and man, the forming of contracts
and making plans pertaining to worldly af-
fairs should this system of thorough complete-
ness be constantly kept in view. But upon
the same basis must all true religious princi-
ples be founded. In order to gain that full and
perfect salvation for which the saints are ac-
customed to pray, it is most essential for them
to live perfect lives so far as their knowledge
extends. Neglecting a known duty here or
there, and yielding to this or that trifling yet
forbidden indulgence, will, sooner or later
grieve away the chaste and sensitive spirit
which leads unto peace and happiness and joy
most exquisite and eternal. Just as slight
omissions and little extravagancies and irreg-
ularities in connection with things of mortal-
ity, are followed by financial losses and fail-
ures.


AIR.
	Pure, fresh air for the children, is one of the
best producers of pure, good blood, from which
may be built up a healthy system. The desire
to be out of doors, even in cold, stormy, disa-
greeable weather, is natural with children.
The little being instinctively calls for free, full
inspiration; and it has a native right to the
same. Parents, teachers or guardians have no
just right to shut out from the children the
fresh, sweet air and the glad light of heaven.


O! let homes be made with large, comfortable,
light and airy rooms, so that the little ones
need not be kept in suffocating gloom, even
when they must be kept in. And let them be
so much accustomed to free, pure ventilation,
and so well habited in times of uncertain
weather that there will be no fear of their
"taking cold," and  sickness being entailed,
should they happen to be out of doors when a
little wind arises.


