BY BLANCHRE BEECHWOOD.

	The time was when women were held in
"small repute," inferior, subordinate, made
to feel so by custom and continual practice,
until they grew half ashamed of being
such.

	"And rudely wished to mother only boys;
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	

	Man looked askance, when someone old dame announced,
	The babe a girl, but flushed with pride, when told
	The ringing cry came from a lucky boy,
	And blessed the gods; when had it been a girl
	Had hardly deigned a smile."

	I must say I think those lines were sadly
"out of joint."
	New the "scene  is changed," from ocean 
to ocean woman and woman's rights, is re-
echoed. It is THE subject now in discussion.
Every fault of mankind has been directly
or indirectly attributed to women, until it
has become a by-word among men when any
starling or sensational catastrophe occurs;
"There's a woman at the bottom of the mis-
chief." Is it not time they took up the cud-
gel in their own defence? As sweethearts,
They have trifled with some innocent young
man's purely disinterested affection, causing 
his utter discumfiture and ultimate ruin; or
as wives, they have not borne insult, abuse,
or neglect, patiently and resignedly enough;
or as mothers, they have failed in doing
their whole and undivided duty, totally re-
gardless of all outward circumstances or in-
ward feeling. In fact, what right have they 
to feel at all? Man is lord, they are his pas-
sion or his toy, his cook or nurse as the case
may be; there can be no allowance made for 
them; if they fall, man is not to blame; how
could he be? How could this lord of crea-
tion have any weaknesses? It must have 
been his mother; he must have inherited
evil propensities from her. Has there been
an error or a fault committed since the days
of Eve's downfall, but is brought to bear
against the sex? Indeed so positive, adun-
dant and conclusive has been the evidence,
that women themselves have actually echo-
ed the refrain and convicted themselves.
	Woman's frailty, woman's vanity, woman's
extra vagance, these and a hundred other
similar subjects, are the inexhaustable topics
of the day. Her incapacity, her demerits,
all her weak points, brought out in the most 
unfavorable light to prove her inability to 
fill any but a home sphere; nature never de-
signed her for any other, SO SAYS THE VER-
DICT; and if she dares to overstep the pre-
scribed boundary, or pass the limit society 
has assigned her, woe be to her! She is for-
ever disenchanted; she has lost all true
womanly grace and purity, (almost her vir-
tue,) she is something to be shunned, she
must have been jilted, or soured by disap-
pointment, has been a neglected or forsaken
wife, or happless old maid, and so she would 
vent her ill-humorm or spleen by seeking no-
toriety. The responsibility of the whole
world of mankind, (according to these ideas)
rests upon her shoulders and those of her
sex, and yet she cannot raise her voice,
loosen her tongue, or send forth her opin-
ions and ideas to the world without con-
demnation.
	Men are afraid that if women are allowed
to mingle more freely, and their interests
become more closely associated with man's,
they will lose the peculiar charms of modes-
ty, grace and shyness, which particularly
characterize them, and constitute the strong-
est attraction (save beauty) which incites 
their admiration; that it will make them
coarse and bold, where heretofore they were
refined even to sensitiveness. But why
should not men assimilate themselves, to
this innocent and inherent refinement of
feeling and sentiment? God designed that
men should be as pure as women, their
bodies fit temples for the Holy Ghost to 
dwell in.
	Women untaught in their vast majority
for centuries, in many arts but those per-
taining to housekeeping, etc, are probably 
far less strong and deep than men, their
untrained mental processes and and conclusions
are necessarily swift and shallow as rule;
but the nature of womankind, more impul-
sive than that of man, relies more on intui-
tion than calculation: and though she may
not always have the large outlook upon the
universe, yet she inclines most to duty, and
childish and implicit obedience to God. She 
has quicker preceptions instead of hard,
cold reasoning; finer tone, purer thoughts
and greater faith; believes more in the effi-
cacy of prayer. How far woman's influence 
can be exerted, in bringing about the re-
demption of man, the future will prove;
that all her instincts, faculties and intelli-
gence will be called in question, that the
most torough mental training, calculated 
to develop all the latent strength and in-
crease the growth of intellect will be need-
ed for the cultivation of the highest and
holiest attributes implanted by the Deity,
who can doubt?
	Woman must be something more than a 
toy, or plaything, or fashion plate, or 
even household deity. She must become enlight-
ened on all points pertaining to life and its
purposes, not only how to bear and rear
children, but how to make them sphyically,
morally and mentally superior. Such knowl-
edge can never be obtained without some
exertion being made to educate women dif-
ferently, and to cultivate more fully their
higher powers of thought and understand-
ing. Neither will the Lord do for us the best of
our ability, every facult of our organiza-
tions: He gave them to us for this purpose,
not to be idle and rust, but to improve upon;
and whoever thinks the Lord will work mir-
acles for them, while they lie in idleness,
ease and luxury, regardless of his richest 
and best gifts, will assuredly meet with dis-
appointment.
	We must cultivate ourselves in the study
of human nature, its elements and devel-
opments; and when we properly understand
ourselves, we shall have more charity for 
others.
	We shall need to call up all the latent
forces within us, and cultivaate up all the latent
forces within us, and culivate them to the
very higest degree, in order even to assist
in the work of regeneration, of which we
talk so much, and with such an imperfect
understanding.
	"Strong-minded" women are the very
ones who will make the best aids and help-
meets for their husbands, competent to as-
sist, advise and sympathize; and if men
would interest themselves in helping to de-
velop woman's higher powers, instead of
placing almost instirmountable barriers to
hinder their progress, they would find it
much to their own advantage; and women
who are the most highly cultivated morally,
mentally and religiously, are the very ones
to do honor and reverence to men, who pos-
sess the noblest attributes and are nearest 
akin to God and Divinity.
