LITTLE FOLKS.
	AT Alton Ill., a preacher asked all Sunday
Scholars to stand up who intended to visit
the wicked, soul-destroying circus. All but
a lame girl stood up.
	"WHAT'S the matter with you my pet?"
"O, aunty! I went to touch a little chickey,
and the old hen growled at me and bit me
with her nose!"
	"Is your dad at home?" asked a neighbor
man of a very little boy. The urchin eyed
the inquirer sharply a moment, and then
cooly replied, "I've got a father."
	A FOUR year old girl having been reproved
by her mother for revenging an offence by
"making faces," when next offended cutely
said, "I'll go behind your chair and make a
face."
	A LITTLE one had made a mis-step and fal
len upon the floor, and was asked, "Are you
much hurt?" "Yes!" "It hasn't laid you
up I hope." "No—it's laid me down 
though."
	HARRY, after looking on while his new
little sister cried at being washed and dress-
ed, turned away, saying, "If she screamed
like this up in heaven, I don't wonder they
sent her off."
	"WHAT ails that boy's eye?" asked a
small boy of his larger sister. "He's blind,"
answered the girl, "he put his eye out with 
an awl." "Oh!" exclaimed the little fellow,
"why didn't he take the awl and put his eye
in again?"
	DURING the recent flood in Middlefield,
N.Y., a little five year old boy, when the
water had reached the height of two or
three feet around the house in which he
was, fell upon his knees and uttered the
following prayer: "O, Lord I don't like this;
take it away. You said when you set your
bow in the skies you would have no more
floods. Now, how is this? Amen."
	A PRIEST who was examining a confirma-
tion class in the south of Ireland, asked the
question: "What is the sacrament of matri
mony?" A little girl at the head of the
class answered, "'Tis a state of torment into
which souls enter to prepare them for an-
other and better world." "Being," said the
priest, "the answer for purgatory."—"Put
her down," says the curate, "put her down
to the fut of the class." "Lave her alone,"
said the priest, "for anything you or I
know to the contrary, she may be perfectly
right."


About 18,700 letters were posted in Eng-
land last year without any address whatever,
and nearly five hundred of the letters con-
tained cash, checks, or bills of exchange to
the value of more than $13,000.


