HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Economy.—In making gored dresses, plenty of
pieces are left to bind the bottom, especially in
solid colors.—Z. D. Y. 
	To Restore Dim Writing.—Dim writing, nearly
effaced by age, may be restored by the application
of a solution of prussiate of potash and water.
Wash the parts with a hair pencil, and the writing
will appear if the paper has not been destroyed. 
	Looking Glasses spoiled by Sunshine.—It does
not seem to be generally understood that the amal-
gam of tin-foil with mercury, which is spread on
glass plates to make looking-glasses, is very readily
crystalized by actinic solar rays. A mirror hung
where the sun can shine on it is usually spoiled; it
takes a granulated appearance familiar with house-
keepers, though they may not be acquainted with
the cause of the change. In such a state  the ar-
ticle is nearly worthless, the continuity of the sur-
face is destroyed and it will not reflect outlines with
any approach to precision.	
	To Cook Dry Field Peas.—Wash the peas and
soak them over night in cold water. Put them on
next morning to parboil in fresh water and let them
boil half an hour, adding one-fourth teaspoonful of
saleratus to one gallon of peas; then pour off the
water and rinse them thoroughly in two waters,
that every particle of alkali may be removed; then
put on to boil again, adding pork or beef for seas-
oning.  They generally require to be cooked slowly
three or four hours. After being boiled until per-
fectly tender, they are sometimes baked, as beans,
in a slow oven.
	Removing Grease Spots.—In taking out grease
from clothing with benzole or turpentine, people
generally make the mistake of wetting the cloth
with the turpentine and then rubbing it with a
piece of sponge or cloth. In this way the fat is
dissolved, but is spread over a greater space and is
not removed; the benzole or turpentine evaporates,
and the fat covers a greater distance than before.
The only way to remove grease-spots is to place
soft blotting-paper beneath and on top of the spot
which is to be first thoroughly saturated with the
benzole and then well pressed. The fat is then
dissolved and absorbed by the paper, and entirely
removed from the clothing.
	To get rid of Insects.—Take two pounds of alum
and dissolve in three or four quarts of boiling wa-
ter; let it stand on the fire till the alum disappears;
then apply it with a brush, while nearly boiling
hot to every crevice in in your closets, bedsteads,
pantry-shelves, and the like. Brush the crevices
in the floor of the skirting or mop-boards, if you
suspect they harbor vermin. If, in whitewashing
a ceiling, plenty of alum is added to the lime, it
will also serve to keep insects at a distance. Cock-
roaches will flee the paint that has been washed in
cool alum water. Sugar barrels and boxes can be
freed from ants by drawing a chalk mark, just
round the edge of the top of them. The mark
must be unbroken or they will creep over it; but a
continuous chalk mark half an inch in width will
set their depredations at naught. Powdered alum


or borax will keep the chintz bugs at a respectable
distance, and travelers should always carry a pack-
age in their hand bags, to scatter over and un-
der their pillows where they have reason to sus-
pect the presence of such bed-fellows.


