
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. JUNE 1, 1895.		No. 1.


CONTENTS:
	Sermon By Rev. Anna H. Shaw In The Large
Tabernacle In Salt Lake City, & Susan B.
Anthony’s Speech. Poetry—Olea Shipp. Eter-
nal Law—S. V. R. Lecture And Shakespearean
Recital. Emery County W. S. A.—Sarah A.
Stapley. Woman Suffrage—Ruby Lamont.
Events In The Life Of Eliza Rollinson. Woman
Suffrage Column.

	EDITORIAL:—Editorial Notes. Golden Wed-
ding. Passing Thoughts—Annie Wells Cannon.
	POETRY:—June—A. W. C. Truth—L. M.
Hewlings.


JUNE.

JUNE—loveliest of months,
	Fairest of all the year,
Music and garlands and laughter;
	Perhaps the gentlest tear;
You bring, in the world’s great cycle
	All treasures of true worth,
For the tears of heaven’s weeping
	Are the fountains of the earth.

Summer’s heart with all its gladness 
	Cannot earth’s completeness know,
’Till it mingles in the sadness
	With the winter’s spotless snow.
So life’s heart forever longing
	For earth’s brightness and sunshine
Must feel earth’s sombre shadows
	For its fulness most sublime.

And the songs and gentle soughing
	Of the birds and tender leaves
And the glowing of the flowers,
	And the humming of the bees,
And the children’s joyous laughter
	And the sighs and thoughts replete.
Of all the months, of all the year,
	Make June the most complete.
						A. W. C.


[Column 1]
SERMON BY REV. ANNA H. SHAW
IN THE LARGE TABERNACLE IN
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Reported by John Irvine, May 12, 1895.]
	PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON then in-
troduced to the audience the,
	REV. ANNA H. SHAW,
		Who said that as they were traveling
along in the train, between here and Den-
ver, through the mighty mountains, and
over the vast plains, she realized more than
she ever did in her life what it had cost of
courage, of manhood, of womanhood, of
character, to open up and give to the world
this vast territory and bring it to its pres-
ent condition. She realized then as she
never did before the courage that must have
been in the hearts of the pioneers, the de-
termination of purpose that must have
actuated them, and the hope they saw lying
before them of a brighter and surer day for
the future. And all the way along she
wondered what she could talk about to the
vast congregation that she would meet in
the City of Salt Lake; her a stranger, and
the people whom she had to address having
ways and religious beliefs largely different
form her own. They differed religiously,

[Column 2]
they differed, perhaps, politically, they dif-
fered in many ways, and yet there came to
her the blessed reflection that they were all
the children of a great and common Father,
even God. In what ever way they might
differ, they were all reaching after the truths
of God, and reaching out after God if
haply He might be found; their hopes and
aspirations were all reaching in one direc-
tion. In one passage of scripture it was
written: "Be strong and of good courage;
be not afraid, neither be thou deceived, for
the Lord thy God is with thee wheresoever
thou goest." If there was anything that
must have inspired the hearts of the pioneers
as they crossed the plains it must have been
the consciousness that they would receive,
as a portion of God's children God's care.
This must have been the feeling of the
people as they journeyed to and opened up
this vast territory. Strength and courage
and faith were needed. 
	Certain things were required to make a
man or a woman's character. In some
places the word "man" did not mean wo-
man also; but in Utah she hoped it meant
both, and as such she would use it. The
word "man" had come by usage in the
East to mean woman also when it had refer-
ence to hard work, sacrifice and toil; but it
meant "man" only when glory and power
and comfort were referred to. She hoped
that in Utah it meant man and woman al-
ways in toil, in glory, in comfort, each and
altogether. It should refer to all human-
kind—man and woman—who are willing to
stand up for the truth, whatever that truth
might be. They all needed strength of
character. Entering upon the responsibili-
ties of statehood she believed it necessary
for every man and woman to be strong.
Women had been taught to be meek and de-
pendent, and not to feel that strength and
dignity which they ought as children of
God; but in this better day it means that
the sons of men are the sons of women.
No man could be strong unless the mothers
of men are strong, and therefore it was as
necessary for mothers to be strong as it was
for the fathers to be strong. It was as
necessary for mothers to display courage
and steadfastness to principle, as it was for
the fathers to exhibit the same character.
She believed that wherever God had a
strong and mighty people, He would lead
them wheresoever He willed, and no evil
would befall them if they put their trust in
Him. She knew that the influences of
environment were strong, and a great many
people in the world believed that these
could not be overcome. She believed, how-
ever, that very often men were as
responsible for circumstances as circum-
stances were for them. Many people had
come to feel that sin was not quite as much
sin as it used to be; that crime is a disease;
that a sinner is- a diseased person; and
people were not made to feel as much as
they ought to feel the power of responsibil-
ity; that every man and every woman stand
responsible to God for the deeds done in the
body. She believed in preaching every-
where the doctrine which made every man
and every woman feel the responsibility of

[Column 3]
lite, and the dignity and nobility of
character. In regard to the influences of
environment, she believed in the power of
the spirit of Almighty God being able to
lift men above such influences, and make 
them a power in this life, and a glory to God
in the life to come.
	Some things were necessary for every man
and woman in this direction, and the most
important of all was, that which would tend
to strengthen character—moral courage, the
courage that would enable every man and
woman to stand up for principle, for truth,
for right, as the right was revealed to them.
She knew there were a great many people
who said that women were weak and there-
fore ought to have no voice in the govern-
ment of the country; that they had no
muscle big enough to defend the country; 
and there were many who believed that
physical strength and powers were greater
than moral courage, but it should be re-
membered that the strength of nations did
not depend upon muscle, but upon the
head and heart of the people of the nation,
and surely no one could deny that women
were possessed of both of these. She
meant moral courage, which enabled men
and women, out of the current of thought
which is issued out upon the world, and
the many theories that are presented—to
dig out of these those thoughts and theories
that seemed to be true, and then stand up
and defend them with all the power that
God had given them; defend them with
every energy of their nature; defend them
though the world might not believe the
truth. She believed in the right of every-
body to search for the truth, and, having
found it, defend it regardless of all conse-
quences. Everybody did not do so. It
was hard to turn aside from those with
whom they had been associated in times
past. But it was the duty of every man
and woman to stand up for principle. The
strength of this great nation of ours did
not lie, as she said a moment ago, in armed
forces. It was only through the men of
moral corage—men, who having a con-
viction, would stand up and defend it to the
last—that we might help to come to the
people. Whenever a man told her that wo-
men were unfit to take part in the affairs of
the country, it was well to remind them that
there was another kind of power that was over
and above physical power. Here the lady
related an instance of a huge dog having
entered a church in which she was preach-
ing. It of course attracted the attention of
the whole congregation. Several men tried
to drag the dog to the door, but he returned
to the front, and it seemed as if he intended
to wend his way up to the pulpit. Now, to
have a dog in the pulpit would be a great
deal worse than having a woman there.
Finally, as the dog wandered up the aisle, a
little boy, about eight years of age, who
had that look upon his face that made one
feel that he was kind to all sorts of animals,
put out his hand, clapped the dog, talked
kindly to it, led it down the aisle to the door, 
and the dog trotted down the street as
though he were glad to go. Here was a
power mighter than physical power. It


[Column 1]
was the power which ruled in the Only Be-
gotten Son of God—love. It was the
power that made Him give up His life that
man might be led to a knowledge of God.
That power was essential today to bring
about a changed condition of things. It
was that power in the heart of man for his
fellow man that would lift them up nearer
to truth and nearer to right. But moral
courage and love were not all that was
needed. She presumed there were men
and women in the congregation who had
the courage to cross those vast plains. She
would like to ask what it was that made
them hold on day after day. At night there
was the burning fire, and all around the dry
dust of the plains, to consume them within
and without. What was it that made pos-
sible for them, with the darkness still
around, to lie down without fear of sur-
rounding danger. What was it made them
rise up the following morning, and go still
on and on towards the setting sun? Was it
not an unfaltering faith that God would
lead them to the land of promise where
they could build their future homes, and
where they could rest? Faith in God was
the inspiration of all great men of old.
Plutarch, 2,000 years ago, stated that he
found cities without theatres or gymnasiums
but never without places for sacrifice,
shrines and gods. That which had drawn
men together into societies, into cities and
into nations was faith in an over-ruling
Providence who holds the destinies of all
people in the hollow of His Almighty
hand. Faith in God ennobled man in dis-
tress, in adversity and in business.
	But men and women must not only have
moral courage, must not only have un-
faltering faith in God; there were higher
laws that must be obeyed. Every man and
woman realized that there were spiritual
laws toward which their spirits responded as
a flower did to the rays of the sun, and the
man or woman, who was strong in character
was the one who was obedient to the teach-
ings of the spirit. No man was fit to be a
general in the army who had not first been
a private and learned how to obey. No
man was fit to be a teacher who had not
himself the principles he taught to others.
No man was fit to be a leader in statescraft
who had not himself been taught. So, no
man or woman was fit for the work of God
in this world who had not first of all be-
come obedient to the teachings of God in
his or her own life. Uncomprising
obedience to the teachings of God was neces-
sary. Just think of that mighty man Lord
Byron—a man of masterful mind—a miracle
of poesy. In his soul was a harp so divinely
tuned that angel fingers would fain have
touched its strings. It pleased God to place
this mighty power in the hands of man,
but when God asked him for a song which
would have lifted men out of degradation,
out of the dark vales of despair, he took
the harp and sank it in the dust at the feet
of his selfish lusts, and the whole world
mourned the loss of the song. Each of
God's children had received from God a
soul similarly attuned, and if one would but
hearken he would hear His divine voice.
Christ promised that He not only would
own His own, but that His own would
know Him. They would know His voice,
and they would follow Him, and the voice
of a stranger they would not follow. And
so in all time the souls of men have been
divinely attuned to hear the voice of God.
Men may never have heard of the written
word, and yet they are not left without a

[Column 2]
witness of a God. Men's souls cry out after
God. There lies in each man's heart a
divine love—a love that can become so
limitless, so broad, so deep, so pure, so en-
during that men have changed its name and
called it God. This would endure after
the world had gone to decay, after the uni-
verse had passed away.
	Men and women, therefore, strong in
character, are those who possessed moral
courage—courage to stand up for principle,
for right, for truth; men and women who
have unfaltering faith in God, who have
zeal, and have become obedient to the higher
laws of God. These traits were requisite
to success; "and if you men and women,"
said the speaker, "are loyal to these
principles the time will come when your
state shall be a glory and an honor to the
Union of States and you shall be a glory to
the world."
	Everywhere help was needed to get rid
of the sin and wrong everywhere to be
found. Why was it so? Was it because
men loved to be bad? She did not believe
the worst man in the world loved to be bad.
He was led by certain impulses which he
believed would add to his pleasure and to
his comfort; but to believe that he did this
because he loved to be bad was a mistake.
She believed that the great majority of man-
kind were reaching up toward God, groping
in darkness and ignorance though they
might be. She had so much faith in
humanity and in God that she believed that
wherever, out of the darkness, a single soul
is turned, the light of God's spirit would
shine in that soul. And, so, believing in
humanity, believing in God, she looked for-
ward to the time when every knee would
bow in obedience to God, and men would
show by their love for the Almighty their
love for each other; their faith in Him by
their faith in each other; His willingness
to help them by their willingness to help
each other; "for how could we love God
whom we have not seen if we do not love
our brethren whom we have seen." Then
shall come the better day, and then the
better time. God would never leave us
alone, never forsake us. In all our battles
for truth He would be by our side. It was
our duty to seek Him morning, noon and
eventide. He who served God faithfully here
would reap the harvest by and by; he who
would serve God faithfully in disappoint-
ment, discouragement shall be given the
victory in the end.
	The speaker concluded by saying that
she was glad to have had the privilege of
coming here and of speaking a few words
to the people. She hoped that all would
go forth realizing the responsibility resting
upon them, and closed her address by a
prayer for the blessing of God to rest upon
all His children.
	President A. M. Cannon next introduced
MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	Who spoke as follows:—"It is just about
twenty-four years ago that I was present in
this great Tabernacle on the day upon
which you dedicated it to the service of the
Lord, and every nook and corner, of this
great building was packed on the occasion
with people from every part of the Ter-
ritory, many being unable to gain admit-
tance. It was the most magnificent gather-
ing I ever saw, and it was brought together in
the midst of the greatest trouble that any
people who were seeking to do right could
go through. In this quarter of a century
you have come to the splendid moment

[Column 3]
when you are about to pass from the period
of childhood of the government—from the
period that governors have been placed over
you by the national government, from the
period of the condition of living under
subjection—to the period when you are
about to pass into the condition of self-gov-
ernment; and I am glad to be here this
moment to congratulate you upon this great
and good result which has come to you, or
is abont to come to you. I want to con-
gratulate you all that in the making of the
fundamental law of your state in your Con-
vention you have ordained that justice
shall be done to all your people; that the
women who toiled by your sides, who came
over the plains with you men, who have
suffered all you have suffered, and a great
deal more than many will ever know, of
sacrifice and hardship—I congratulate you,
I say, that in your sense of justice and gen-
erosity you have incorporated in your con-
stitution, which is to be law of your state,
that women shall be by your side. Justice
is what every human being longs for, and,
therefore, I, today, congratulate you upon
this auspicious moment when the Territory
of Utah is about to become a state, that the
women who for the last few years have been
disfranchised—not by the law of the Ter-
ritory, but by national legislation—will be
restored to their just right. I know you
will go on and prosper, and that you will
become the greatest of the mountain states,
and it is destined to become one of the great
states of the nation. This is the third
mountain state that has ordained justice to
all the people, that has declared that their
government shall be genuine, not for a part
of the people; but for the whole com-
munity."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POETRY.
	
	POETRY is the language of the soul, the
inspiration of mankind, and praises of nature
and of God! There is poetry in beautiful
thoughts, kind deeds and loving words:
there is poetry in the chirp of the meadow-
lark and the croak of the frog; there is
poetry in the rising and the setting sun, in
the stars and the moon, in a beautiful sky;
there is poetry in the hills and the dales,
and the delicate tinted flowers that grow
there; there is poetry in the mountains and
the laughing streams that rush down their
sides. There is poetry in music, painting
and art; in everything that is beautiful,
grand, sublime, noble and true.
	Persons have been heard to say they dis-
like poetry. It readily shows that they do
not understand it and cannot appreciate it.
Poetry is not mere rhyme. To show you
poetry is not always written in rhythmical
numbers I will suggest that you read, “The
Tempest” from Charles Dicken’s, “David
Copperfield” or John Ruskin’s “Modern
Painters.”
	To illustrate to you how poetry is the
language of the soul, I will quote from
Longfellow’s “Psalm of Life.”

	“Tell me not in mournful numbers
		Life is but an empty dream,
	For the soul is dead that slumbers
		And things are not what they seem.
	Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal:
	Dust thou art to dust returnest,
		Was not spoken of the soul."

	Is there a heart that does not feel a res-
ponsive thrill when perusing these eloquent
thoughts. But what would they have been,


where would they have stood in literature,
had not our beloved poet, Longfellow, 
expressed them in poetry—true poetry? I
said it was the inspiration of mankind. Is
it not, when you hear beautiful thoughts
and sentiments expressed in poetry, does it
not cheer, elevate, inspire, the soul to things
eternal and sublime? Are not songs and
praises always put into poetry? What
would they be in mere phraseology, nothing.
There would be no sentiment about them.
	What would patriotic songs be without
this poetic inspiration? Would they arouse
any. sense of patriotism in you? For instance,
will give part of our national song,
‘‘America” in common language and then
in its own musical rhythm—
	This country, where the first settlers met
their death is mine. I will sing of freedom
from the mountains, to you, (or)

		“My country! ’tis of thee,
		Sweet land of liberty.
			Of thee I sing:
		Land where my fathers died,
		Land of the pilgrim’s pride
		From ev’ry mountain side
			Let freedom ring.”

	Which has the patriotism in it?
arouses your patriotic emotions? The
ardent lover of poetry in all its glory, is the
one who can tell Again, I ask, what must
be the state of that soul which despised
poetry, for, in this state of mind, they can-
not appreciate anything good, pure, beauti-
ful or sublime. Shakespeare must have had
in mind such a being when he said:
“The man that hath no music in himself,
	Nor is moved with concord of sweet sounds,
	is fit for treason, stratagems and spoils.
	The motions of his spirit are dull as night
	And his affections dark as Erebus— 
	Let no such man be trusted.”
							Olea Shipp
May, 18, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN TRUTH.

I’m resting in my evening tent,
	The light is fading—growing dim,
Yet in my heart lies sweet content,
	Love’s hallowed hymn.

I hear the wailing of the wind,
	The surging waters just below,
I rest secure in peace within,
	Love wills it so.

Trusting in His pardoning grace,
	To keep and save me from all sin,
The loving kindness of His face.
	Is never dim.

In trusting faith I bide my time,
	Enquiring not how long the stay,
But leaning on His word sublime,
	Await the day.

To cross the river flowing near.
	To fold my tattered tent away,
At His command, I need not fear,
	He’ll lead the way.

And then a loving Savior’s smile,
	Life everlasting, free from sin;
Stranger and pilgrim here awhile
	Then Seraph’s hymn!
					L. M. Hewlings.


[Column 1]
ETERNAL LAW.

	IT is written of God that He has never
given unto man a temporal law, that His
laws are all spiritual, that to Him all things
are spiritual. It therefore follows that the

[Column 2]
command to multiply and replenish the
earth was a spiritual, an eternal law, and
was given to spiritual beings capable of
observing it. The covenant and obligation
of each in the keeping of the law was to be
an everlasting covenant, a spiritual cove-
nant and obligation as eternal as the being
from whom the law had emanated: and was
to be made in view of its eternal conse-
quences.
	When a man by mutual consent of both
parties has made of woman a wife and
mother, and a child has been born, a living
soul created that has been done which can
never be undone. Eternal results and con-
sequences must inevitably follow, and this
is sufficient reason why it should be done
by virtue of an everlasting covenant, a
covenant made to endure in time and
through all eternity, co-equal in duration
with the results of the work done.
	The intent, purpose and deliberation
should be in accord with the character of
the work, so that by virtue of actual merit
the reward may be secured. The reward
could not be reasonably claimed without the
intent and purpose were an element of the
work done, and prompted the parties who
did it: in full faith of acquiring benefits
that would result therefrom.
	Any work done by parties who are per-
fectly indifferent or regardless of the con-
sequences; is done without faith in that
work and without any righteous intent,
would be a work without hope of reward, a
work to which no reward could attach, as
it would be without the elements of either
hope or charity. Faith, Hope and Charity,
these three abide; they are elements or at-
tributes which must enter into all the works
and deeds of men to make them works of
righteousness as enduring as eternity its-
self.
	Hence it is that the relationship of the
sexes by virtue of covenant made only for
time is void to them beyond the limits of
time. The fruits of that relation are be-
gotten as destitute of eternal element in
their creation, as were the creators who
formed them, and the result is apparent
unbelief and infidelity in eternal things are
characteristics of the race begotten in a
covenant made only for time: when and
where passions rule: and elements that are
divine are in contempt, as unworthy of hu-
man recognition.
	In this life where evil prevails such a
work must universally prove to be the work
of folly and wickedness, and if not
restrained will result in evil and misery as the
only just reward for evil done. Though
a man slay his fellow man, the deed of
death be done, yet if, there be no intent or I
purpose of so doing, guilt does not attach,
punishment does not follow. So in all cases
of moral action, faith must prompt to deeds
of right, and intent to deeds of wrong, to
call into exercise the principles of mercy
and justice, resulting in rewards and pun-
ishments for acts of this mortal life.
	Complete moral rectitude will never come
to man on earth uutil the marriage cove-
nant is made and honored as one for time
and for all eternity: never ending and never
to be violated; and every soul have free ac-
cess to it, not only as a natural inherent
right, but from the eternal fact that “the
man is not withont the woman nor the wo-
man without the man in the Lord.” No
eternal life but in the eternal law. 
							S. W. R.


LECTURE AND SHAKESPEAREAN
RECITAL.

BY MISS IDA SNOW.
	Miss Ida Snow will shortly give a lecture
and Shakespearean recital. The first part
will be devoted to personal experiences in
and impressions of Italy, Part First
Venice; Arrival; Grand Canal by moon-
light; Piazza; the fashionable prom-
enade, and its celebrated pigeons; Palace of
the Doges; its glorious paintings, Academia
delle Belle Art; a famous street; amusing trait
of Italian character; Church St. Marco, in all
its Byzantine magic and splendor; its mag-
nificent pictorial decorations; Scuola d’S
Roceo Tintiretto’s Gallery; S. Giovanni
Paola and “The Frari;” S. Maria “Far-
mosa;” Palma “Vecchio’s;” St. Barbara;
Armenian convent, Island of S. Lozzaro
celebrated in travel and romance; Island
Muranto seat of Venetian glass industry; the
people, gondoliers and gondolas; ceremony
tragic scenes of Bargaining; Palaces of
extinct nobles; Art and Artists; Farewell.
Byron’s Childe Harold on Venice.
	The Shakespearean recital, “Forest
Scene,” from “As You Like it.”


EMERY COUNTY W.S.A.
	
	A Convention was held at Orangeville
May 13, 1895, for the purpose of reorgan-
izing the Emery County W. S. A. Mrs.
Mary Ann Sorenson was chosen temporary
Chairman and Mrs. Carrie O. Larsen, Sec-
retary pro tem. Mrs. Jane C. Petersen, of,
Castle Dale, was sustained as County Pres-
dent, with Mrs. S. A. Fullmer and Tennie
Curtis, of Orangeville, Vice Presidents;
Mrs. Sarah A. Stapley, of Castle Dale, Sec-
retary and Treasurer Mary Ann Soren-
sen, Chairman Executive Board Josephine
Jack, Aggie Curtis, Maria Guymon,
of Orangeville, and Annie E. Seely, Caro-
line U. Larsen, of Castle Dale, members of
Board.
	S. A. Fullmer, late President, made a
few remarks in regard to the former organ-
ganization said they had met with opposi
tion, and the officers being so scattered, she
had a great part of the burden to bear; was
glad to be released. Mrs. Josie Childs
spoke of the advantages of belonging to the
W. S. A.; called a vote of thanks from the
ladies present for our Delegates who had
done so much in our favor at the Constitu-
tional Convention.
	Mrs. Jane C. Petersen asked the ladies to
accept her thanks for the honor conferred 
upon her, and solicited their aid in making 
the Association a success. Mrs. Tennie
Curtis made a few remarks in accepting the
position of Vice President. Mary Ann So-
renson said we know there are political 
rights for women, and it will cost some
effort on our part to find out what they are.
	Delegate Robertson, of Orangeville, felt -
honored to speak to the ladies of the Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association related some
of the events that had transpired at the
Convention at Salt Lake, in regard to equal.
rights for women with men, being adopted 
in the Constitution.
	The President will organize Associations
in each town so all can be working in the
good cause.	JANE C. PETERSEN, Prest. 
			SARAH A. STAPLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY JUNE 1, 1895.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE sermon of Bishop O. F.Whitney 
in the Tabernacle on Sunday, May 12, fol-
lowing the celebrated women who spoke on
that occasion will be published in the next
number of the Exponent.
	THE pamphlet containing the several
speeches of Hon. O. F. Whitney before the
Constitutional Convention upon equal suf-
frage will soon be ready to distribute, as it
is now in the hands of the printers. 
	THE regular Quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society will be held
Saturday June 15th, at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. in the Assembly Hall. A full represen-
tation of all the branches in the County is
desired.
	THE first number of the new volume be-
gins the twenty-fourth year of the Wo-
man’s Exponent, which has been in
existence now since June 1, 1872. The
paper has always been the repository of the
work of the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of women and children that
have been established since. Biographical
sketches of some of the most eminent wo-
men of the Church, and of the world, have
appeared from time to time, and it has
really been the avenue through which much
literary talent has been encouraged and
cultivated. The deaths of all the sisters
who have passed away, from time to time
are recorded as far as possible, and all
questions of public interest relating to wo-
men, minutes of meetings, and other mat-
ters of importance find place when space
is available. The value the paper has been
to the organizations, and to the women gen-
erally cannot be estimated in figures; nor
can the work of those who have devoted so
miich time and heart and brain to the work.
If the sisters could realize what the
Exponent has done for them in causing
them to become known, the influence it
has brought to their charitable and other
work, not only here but elsewhere, they
would not be so indifferent to its financial
interests.


[Column 1]
GOLDEN WEDDING.

EZRA T. AND MARY S. CLARK.
	The Golden Wedding of Elder Ezra T.
Clark and his wife Mary S. Clark, was cel-
ebrated on Saturday evening, May 18, 1895,
in the Opera House at Farmington, Davis
County, Utah, with appropriate program
and ceremony. There were present rela-

[Column 2]
tives of the husband from the East and the
West, who had taken the long journey that
they might be present and do honor on
such a memorable occasion of a dear rela-
tive and friend. President Wilford Wood-
ruff and wife, of Salt Lake City; Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, General President of the Re-
lief Society, and several other sisters from
Salt Lake City; also Prof. J. M. Tanner
and Dr. C. F. Wilcox and wife were pres-
ent by invitation; also President J. W.
Hess and wife, of Davis Stake, and his
counselor, Hiram Grant and wife; Bishop
Secrist and wife, of Farmington; Mrs.
Susan Grant, President of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake, and many intimate
friends. Among the relatives from a dis-
tance we must mention Wm. O. Clark, of
San Francisco, an older brother of the
bridegroom, who had performed the mar-
riage ceremony of Brother and Sister Clark
fifty years before in Lee County, Iowa;
also the eldest sister, who had, at the great
age of 85 years, come to help celebrate this
happy union after half a century of experi-
ence in wedlock. There were many other
younger people, some not so very young,
either, yet all were welcomed to the gener-
ous hospitality of the venerable couple,
who looked quite as smiling and happy,
and almost as timid (one would imagine)
as on the day when they were first united
in the holy bonds of matrimony. Then
they were young and had the future spread
out before them, but they were poor in this
world's goods, for it was just shortly after
the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
the Latter-day Saints were plunged in sor-
row and mourning. Now these good
people are heads of families of more than
one generation, besides having prospered
temporally and secured to themselves an
everlasting inheritance through the order of
celestial marriage.
	The program of the evening opened with
music (instrumental) night march, by John
Tupper, grand nephew of Brother Clark's
from Santa Rosa. Then the company
sang "Come let us anew," etc., after
which prayer was offered by President Hess,
and the favorite hymn by Sister Eliza R.
Snow was sung by a choir of young people,
Brother Steed, of Farmington, who has a
fine voice, leading, the others joining in.
A wedding march from "Martha" was
finely executed on the piano.
	There were some remarks by W. O.
Clark, and allusions to the marriage which
had taken place fifty years before, men-
tioned his own persecutions in connection
with the Church in Missouri, and the driv-
ings from place to place, and spoke of his
travels in foreign countries, and how his
life had been preserved in the midst of
dangers by sea and by land, and the prom-
ises, that had been pronounced upon his
head in the early days were veri-
fied and his faith was firm in the Lord.
	President Woodruff spoke of the sacredness
of the marriage relation when the ceremony
had been performed in the house of the
Lord and was binding upon the parties for
time and for all eternity, and the blessings
it brought to all associated therewith and
bore a strong testimony of the Gospel be-
fore the people present. Related the cir-
cumstance of President Young coming into
the valley in his carriage, and told what
he said when he looked out upon the valley
below—alluded to the prophecies of Joseph
in earlier days and their literal fulfillment;
spoke of endowments given under the

[Column 3]
hands of Joseph the prophet, and stated
that he was the only man living now
who had received these holy ordinances un-
der the hands of Joseph Smith; gave some
items concerning the last testimony of the
prophet; he said to the audience you may
take every instance on record of any man,
you cannot find any such revelation as was
given to Joseph when only a boy; he called
the boys from the field, the plow, and the
shop, and the result is the Gospel has been
preached to the people in their own homes,
and they have gathered here; it was the
will of God we should come, the rich
treasures are hid up here and we are build-
ing Temples and the people go into them
and redeem the dead, it is the work of the
holy priesthood; Joseph Smith prophesied
of these things, of the Temples, that would
be built and the great work that would be
done. President Woodruff spoke of the
future the life beyond, said we can all go to
a kingdom such as we live for, when we
pass behind the vail we shall know; the
vail to him seemed very thin. We should
strive to do our duty and to do good to all
mankind, referred to many other things,
times and places.
	Supper was announced and about one
hundred and fifty people were seated at
once at the five tables arranged on the plat-
form, handsomely decorated with flowers
and loaded with the good things nature re-
quires for her sustenance besides delica-
cies of a great variety. The blessing was
pronounced by Brother Hiram Grant, and
after the banquet, expressions of good feel-
ing were given by many of those present.
James Smith Stevenson, Prof. J. M. Tanner,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, E. B. Wells and
the aged sister of Brother Clark, Rhoda
Cooper who sung a few verses and then re-
lated some of her experience in Far West,
Mo., when her house was burned by the
mob, and the people fled in the night by the
light of their burning homes. Brother
Nathan Porter who spoke immediately after
said he had been on a mission with Brother
Cooper in the Prophet's life time. After,
the guests had spoken the remainder of the
company sat down to the banquet and the
exercises in the hall were resumed.
	A poem was read by Ezra Robinson which
was a glowing tribute to the aged couple;
music by Mrs. Nellie Clark; Professor J.
M. Tanner paid a beautiful and eloquent
tribute to the pioneers. particularly to
President Woodruff, who had come into
this valley when there was no house and no
white man to be seen.
	President Woodruff followed Professor
Tanner with general remarks concerning
the settling of these vales, and spoke of
driving his carriage out on the block where
the Knutsford hotel is now located. Referred
to the growing public sentiment in our favor,
how wonderfully things had changed in the
last few years, and how forcibly these things
had come to his mind on the journey East
of the Tabernacle choir accompanied by the
First Presidency, when the company were re-
ceived with so much honor at all the points
en route; par[-]icularly had he been reminded
of the past Missouri experiences when in
St. Louis, and also at Independence, where
the people were received by the dignitaries
of the city, and in fact were given a perfect
ovation.
	In Chicago they were treated with the
greatest respect and shown every attention.
Many great men had visited the Presidency
here, and been greatly attracted by the pub-
lic buildings, especially the Temple and


[Column 1]
Tabernacle, which were the admiration of
people from abroad. Spoke of the recent
visit of the celebrated women, who had
spoken in the Tabernacle. His remarks
were exceedingly interesting to all, and
must have been to the people from a dis-
tance.
	A song by Lizzie Brown, with
piano accompaniment by Clara Leonard,
"Just fifty years ago to night." Recitation
(original.)

LUCY A. CLARK.
IN A GREEN and shady bower,
	Where the creeping ivy's twine
Flowers and mossy velvet carpet
	Is a picture grand, sublime.
'Neath the bower a form is seated,
	Manly, noble-browed and just
And beside a lovely maiden
	Greets his smile with fervent trust.
They are gazing on the future
	Loving hearts they both enfold,
Plighted vows they cast together
	In affection's sacred mold.
Close beside a bark is anchored,
	In a pure and sparkling stream,
In they step and from its moorings
	Float away on life's young dream.
On they float and every shadow 
	That apears upon the scene,
Vanishes before affection's
	Bright and glittering holy gleam.
Years pass by and still they're floating,
	And the vows they made in youth,
Have grown purer, dearer, stronger
	While they've labored for the truth.
Such devotion makes them happy,
	When they reach the golden shore,
Where bedecked with well-earned laurels
	They will dwell for ever more.

	President Hess spoke briefly of his mis-
sions and other experiences; his being
called to go in the Mormon Battalion; spoke
of the privations and hardships encountered
by the brethren who went in that company.
	Wm. O. Clark, of California, made a sort
of brief review of his life; mentioned seeing
Joseph and Hyrum in Clay County, Mis-
souri, when he came off a mission, and the
people were leaving Missouri and going
over into Iowa, pell mell. He told Joseph
then of Isaac and Abel Galland. One of
them owned 160 acres of land across the
Mississippi, in Commerce, which the people
could get on easy terms. Joseph said, "we
must go there and rest." The people went
and built up Nauvoo; referred to the time
when the Apostle, David Patten, was shot,
and his father imprisoned in Ray County,
Missouri. There were no charges against
him; his innocence was proven. Since
those days he had traveled in Europe, Asia,
Africa, East India and Japan. He had
been among the Buddhists. Father Smith
had placed his hands upon his head and
said, "You shall have the privilege of going
among the crowned heads of the world;" he
had been in two railroad smash ups and left
for dead; had the plague in Egypt, Cairo,
and had not expected to live, but he looked
in his Bible, and found courage; knew he
would recover; there were three hundred
foreigners there in despair, but he recov-
ered. On the sea he was at one time five
days and nights in darkness and storms;
the voice said to him, "You shall see home
in peace." Then I thought of this people-
the world will come to this people, and
when banks fail we shall have the world

[Column 2]
coming here. When I go back to the West
to wind up my affairs and come back, which
I must, I shall think of this place, and of
the boys here (Farmington,) where there is
no saloon."
	Elder Ezra T. Clark reviewed his past
life for the fifty years, and spoke of his suc-
cess in his family, and referred to his kin-
dred who had come long distances to be with
him on this occasion; his gratitude to them,
and his love for this people with whom he
was associated; said many good things that
were appreciated by all present.
	Sister Mary S. Clark spoke of her joy and
her happiness under all circumstances, be-
cause of the Gospel; of coming here among
the sagebrush, living in a log cabin, but the
Lord had blest them in their family; they
were all in the Church; all faithful and all
temperate; she rejoiced to see so many 
friends come from afar to do them honor,
and those who had come from the city, and
their neighbors; welcomed all. 
	Sister Rhoda Cooper, 85 years old, sang
the hymn, "Who is this faith one from the
wilderness traveling?"
	Sister Rhoda Douglas spoke much upon
faith and the powers of healing, related re-
markable instances, and exhorted the young
people to serve the Lord. A poem com-
posed for the occasion by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
was read by Sister E. B. Wells. A duet
was rendered by two of the young people
from California. The program was under
the direction of Edwin B. Clark, son of
Brother and Sister Clark, and was very well
carried out, there were about three hundred
people present. 
	There were twenty-one relatives from a
distance besides some from Idaho and dif-
ferent parts of Utah. The presents were
quite valuable, a large picture of the First
Presidency of the Church, handsome gilt
frame, was given by friends in Farmington,
the home of Brother and Sister Clark; a
handsome white French clock with gilt
ornaments from their children. From W.
O. Clark and wife, a gold ring and spectacles
for Sister Clark and gold headed cane for
Brother Clark. Rhoda Cooper, Santa Rosa,
gold belt buckle Sister Clark and gold
headed cane Brother Clark; handsome gold-
finish fruit dish Lewis Cooper and family
California, Geo. W. Clark and his Sister
Cora Gilbraith two silver cups gold lined. 
Jewel case Dr. and Mrs Ezra Clark Rich-
nut dish, silver and gold Dr. C. F. and Mrs.
Wilcox, salt set gold, in pale green plush and
silk case Mrs. G. A. Tupper Santa Rosa.
Mrs. H. O. Clark, San Francisco, gold tea
spoon engraved in bowl with Cliff House,
the handle California emblem the bear,
shovel and pan of gold, San Francisco in-
scribed on scroll—Nellie and Holly Clark,
souvenir spoons solid gold in filagree, work
engraved with the golden gate San Francis-
co, Miss Netta and Miss Nellie Richardson
California, desert spoon gold, handsomely
engraved; there were also other presents of
less value. The wedding cake which was
very elaborately decorated, was cut and
friends were permitted to take pieces home.
	Doxology was sung and the benediction
pronounced by Bishop Secrist and the wed-
ding guests separated, feeling the evening
had been an enjoyable one and long to be
remembered.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Men And Women a new paper has
been started in Utah, which promises fair
representation and discussion of all ques-
tions, and to favor home interests.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SCHOOL—The spring winds and showers
are over, and the freshness of the foliage is
beautiful to behold. The glorious month
of roses is upon us. The air is full of fra-
grance and music. Mingling with the love
notes of the birds and the fair opening of
the flowers are the parting songs of the
school children. The last few days have
come and the little hearts leap with joy at
the thought of a respite from stupid text-
books and the enjoyment of a long vacation.
And yet, does not every little child have
some regret? After all, with the bright an-
ticipations and the happy relief, there is the
sorrow of parting with a faithful, patient
teacher and loving little friends, parting,
perhaps, to meet no more, for who can tell
what changes the summer days may bring?
Some may leave for other climes, and some,
perhaps the great reaper may gather to his
fold. Alas! With all the sweet, the bitter
sure is found. Yet who does not enjoy
those last, warm, pleasant days, with the
preparations for a final day, when parents
and friends, and that august body—the
trustees—come to see us in holiday attire
and hear us sing and recite.
	It is now the time when the sweet girl
graduate plans some lovely gown, where
among the soft, graceful folds the roses and
carnations play hide and seek. Lovelier
than the flowers are the blushes of her face,
as she receives the gifts and congratulations
of her admiring friends. It is the time
when the brave youth recites his valedic-
tory, his countenance aglow with the sun-
shine of life and hope, and as we gaze, the
heart recalls the poet's words:
	“How beautiful is youth,
	How bright it gleams
	With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
	Book of beginnings, stories without end,
	Each maid a heroine
	And each man a friend.”
	School teachers—Speaking of graduates
brings back a question much conned. Why,
in these hard times, and while there is so
much talk about “home industry,” does
Utah need to send East for teachers? Are
the Eastern teachers superior to the Utah
teachers? I think not, and yet throughout
our public schools, to every Utah teacher,
there are three or four, or more, imported
teachers. Again, where does the imported
teacher spend his wages? (the people’s
taxes.) Does he spend them in Utah, or
does he, so far as possible, send East for
everything he can? When vacation comes
does he take his rest at the Utah resorts,
among her mountains and her lakes, or
does he not rather hie him to his Eastern
home to visit friends, and tell in glowing
colors his experiences among the “unculti-
vated westerners,” especially the “dreadful
Mormons?” To be sure, it is only the ex-
ception where some teacher has returned
home and published remarks very uncom-
plimentary, and in some cases, most absurd,
about the Mormon school children. Ar-
ticles extremely unkind, because they were
most untrue; but that such articles have
been published is true, for we have read
them and while Utah has a University,
with a large normal class, and a high
school with thorough teachers, and every
summer has many graduates, need we send
away for teachers for the district schools?
Are there any better teachers in the schools
now than those who are graduates from the
University? Do any of the Eastern men or


women excel Professors Kingsbury, Paul,
Toronto, Van Cott, all Utah men, Utah
born and bred? Have we ever had more
successful teachers in the district schools,
teachers more beloved by their pupils,
teachers with better discipline or more need-
ful knowledge, than Louisa A. Ashby,
Emma Wells, Rebecca Mantle, Augusta
Winters, Eliza Slade, May Wells, Keetie
Heywood, Lucy Stringam, and a host of
others I could name, but space forbids?
	Certainly not, and the young men and
young women of Utah are just as capable
now as ever, and our training schools ought
to be, and I believe are, equal to the East-
ern training schools. Why then should we
not keep our money at home, employ our
own people in this vocation? If a corpora-
tion should talk of sending East for labor to
build a smelter, or a railroad, or any great
undertaking, think of the furore it would
raise, how the workingmen would hold
mass meetings, and the people would pro-
test, and yet every year some hundred men
and women come here and teach in our
public schools. Personally they are well
liked, and their society is enjoyed, because,
of course, they are cultivated, refined and
in every way an ornament and a pleasure
to the city, as refinement and education al-
ways is, but do they make their homes per-
manently with us, and is it necessary to
have them? A school teacher is well paid,
salaries range from fifty to a hundred and
fifty dollars, a month. Does not three-
fourths of the wages of an Eastern teacher
go out of the Territory, while all of it
would remain if Utah teachers were em-
ployed? Besides, do these Eastern people
leave their homes and come West to teach,
for as small a wage as a Utah teacher would
accept, in other words do they not come
pretty high?
	This question may cause some discussion
but the people of Utah ought to insist on
Utah talent being employed as far as pos-
sible in the public schools’ I do not speak
ignorantly when I say I know the Utah
teachers are the equal of the Eastern teach-
ers. In a school near me a lady from
Michigan was employed, she had a small
school, an average attendance of fifteen
pupils tho’ over thirty were enrolled. Her
hours were from nine until half past two,
and she received sixty dollars a month; her
highest grade was the third reader and she
had only four or five scholars in that grade,
as soon as school closed she went back to
Michigan for the summer.
	She was a good teacher but no
better than dozens of Utah girls I
could mention, and I know they would
have been glad to have taken that school at
forty or even thirty dollars a month, and
spent it all in Utah besides. And for one,
a woman, a mother—a would-be voter I
declare for Utah teachers in Utah schools so
far as possible. Let a city employ its own
talent, cultivate its own people. Of course
where the Eastern teachers make Utah
their home, help to build her up, are tax-
payers, and are a part of us, why encourage
them by employment, we cannot have too
many of the cultured people among us, it is
only against those who come solely for our
money, and have their homes in other
states that I protest.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE Plan of Work Committee has com-
pleted the political educational system which
will soon be in the hands of those suffragists
who desire it.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Truly, "oratory is not argument, nor
rhetoric reason!" The reports of the
speeches for and against equal suffrage at
the Convention lie before me and have been
examined with the deepest care and anxiety.
When I learned that there would be serious
opposition I expected that opposing cham-
pions would arm themselves with a com-
prehension of the subject and that their ar-
guments would be well-nigh unanswerable,
never dreaming that we should only have a
re-hash of the old ignorant prejudices and
bug-bears connected with the proper atten-
tion of women to the creature comforts of
their families, and the wreck of homes. I am
once more reminded practically of what
Geo. W. Cable once said: "I have never
seen an argument against woman suffrage
that was not flimsy. Men are much dis-
posed to exaggerate the difficulties of voting
intelligently when they talk of women
voting. By the time a public question is
ready for the popular vote it has become a
very simple question that requires little
more than honesty and common sense to
vote upon it. If our mothers are not fit to
vote they ought to stop bearing sons."
	The only one of the opposition one would
deign to run a tilt with is the redoubtable
hero (?) "from Davis."
	And as the "gentleman from Davis" was
so lionized we must examine his arguments
and ascertain what they are worth. Argu-
ment! Oratory there may have been to such
as sat under the spell of his voice. But
logic! Argument! Are they not mainly
conspicuous by absence? In his last speech
he throws a withering disdain upon the
poet as if he were quite too weak and
"soulful" to appreciate the majestic flights
of the orator. He, too, is magnanimous!
He is "in earnest—terribly in earnest"—
and for what? A threadbare, ragged, worn
out prejudice, or the music and tinkling
symbols of his voice? It would have been
more to his honor had he been armed with
something of the 'logic, philosophy and in-
cisiveness" he so bitterly mocked.
	But behold the terrible forces which he
has marshaled to the contest! And, especi-
ally, forget not the dramatic courage of a
hero digging his political grave in defense
of wrong and oppression! Ah, he was tre-
mendously in earnest about that grave, but
he was not without strong faith that he
should dump the majority of the Conven-
tion into its gloomy depth before himself,
and then, having killed the dragon "that
had risen from the ashes of the past to
plague them," and having scattered the
dragon's teeth by mighty oratory, he no
doubt hoped to see the armed giants rising
up out of the earth, terrible as an army
with banners to scare away the Tyrians
(the women) and follow him as their leader
to the erection of Thebes or the monument
of man, sole, unquestioned monarchy in
government. The poet! Heaven's blessing
rest ever upon him as the faithful, prophetic
watcher on the tower, catching the first
dim ray of advancing truth; and the orator,
if he were but careful, too, to "sharpen his
arrows in the silent surroundings of his
private study" that he might be armed
with thought, and if sincere prayer for
right enlightened his soul with truth, we
would not quarrel with his calling, either.
But when it becomes mere music to catch
the ovations of the multitude we are re-
minded of another poet who, after all, be-
ing but a poet, and a "poor, blind old

[Column 2]
schoolmaster" to boot," is perhaps beneath
the attention of a Demosthenes.
	This, too, may be "soulful," but, any-
way, he is bold enough to put it into the
mouth of the greatest of all earthly poets,
philosophers, philanthropists and orators
combined:
"For what is glory but the blaze of fame,
The people's praise, if always praise unmixt?
And what the people but a herd confused,
A miscellaneous rabble, who extol
Things vulgar and, well-weighed, scarce worth
	the praise?
They praise and they admire they know not what
And know not whom, but as one leads the other;
And what delight to be by such extolled?
To live upon their tongues and be their talk,
Of whom to be dispraised were no small praise?"
	As there are certainly no stars in my po-
litical horizon to be blotted out, if there be
political pabulum in this quotation, why,
"make the best of it!"
	Three speeches of upward of an hour
each, and yet the seeking after a real pearl
of thought throughout the whole mass of
rubbish is like the proverbial seeking for a
"needle in a straw stack!" Perhaps, how-
ever, in her cry for logic woman is but giv-
ing another proof of her "incapacity for in-
dependent" research as well as action, and
adding thereunto a flagrant proof of her
lack of intellect by her inability to duly ap-
preciate a flight of oratory for its sheer
music. Something in the poet's fix, you
know. But the most hardened orator would
not refuse her just a little sip, even though
God and nature, man and prehistoric cus-
tom, render her, by birth, quite incompe-
tent to drink deeply at the Pierian spring of
logic or oratory.
	First, then, we are confronted with the
chivalrous (?) assertion that we are really
not capable of exercising the franchis[-], that
the hearth must limit all our aspirations,
that women are sweet and pure and whole-
some around the fireside alone, and this
complemented by the proverbial curse of
Eve. Paul, too, is quoted, and we do not
see why he did not go on and quote Paul,
bidding us stay at home and learn of our
husbands, etc. Admitting Paul's fervent
zeal and matchless logic, we still hold that
the customs of his times in regard to women
will scarcely "wash" in our nineteenth
century, even making allowance for nine-
teenth century self-conceit and presumption.
	Then in regard to Eve's curse: Is it not
amusing, would it not be really laughable
were it not used as such a potent weapon
against us by cruel hands, to see how glibly
men can quote: Her desire shall be unto
her husband and he shall rule over her. If
you counter quote: So God created man in
His own image; male and female created
He them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
THEM, be fruitful, and multiply, and re
plenish the earth, and subdue it and HAVE
DOMINION, etc. They are not posted,
"not well up in the Bible anyway, you
know, never was very religious at best.
Don't take much stock in religion, you
see." Ah, no, plenty of them that "take
no stock in religion," except to remind
women of the curse of mother Eve—their
religion becomes quite eloquent then.
	Then if it be a curse would it not be more
in accord with the chivalry, justice, right-
eousness of a true manhood to ameliorate
and lighten so sweeping a degradation?
Adam's curse was to earn his bread by the
sweat of his brow. Does even our hero
"from Davis" object to a man’s accumula-
tion of sufficient wealth to make others do


[Column 1]
the toilsome sweating? And if a wife and
mother does the sweating over somebody’s
washing to help earn the daily bread while
the appointed toiler shirks his part and
lounges around polling booths or street cor-
ners discussing politics or woman’s rights
with cultured intelligence and profound
forethought (!) who would be so bold as to
proclaim that he is evading the law, dis-
torting the designs of his Creator, unsexing
himself, endangering the peace and comfort
of the home? Ah, no, woman must have
her rights; her rights to bear children in
sorrow and to rear them in like manner;
to yield gently, willingly to the rule of her
husband, to keep dutifully within the sphere
which he may limit and, in addition, bear a
heavy share of his burden beside. His
sphere who shall limit; his actions who
shall criticise; his unerring judgment who
shall question?
	Poor woman! There is danger to society,
to the home, to the children, if she be
trained to think; if her mind should wan-
der beyond her care of socks and buttons
and puddings, beyond fashion and the tire-
some dulness of conventional society.
Danger to society if she should be given a
personal incentive to study anything but
fashion and housekeeping. She may study
government for the sake of her influence
over male relatives, but it must be purely
from such feminine standpoint—not with
any hope of casting a personal vote for what
she may feel in her soul to be right. Influ-
ence! If her influence is of any use, or if it
can be admitted what is the danger of her
personal ballot with it? But that would be
unwomanly, and some one else might have
to rock the cradle or hold the baby while
she cast it. There is danger to society if
she gain a little ascendancy over her ages
and ages of subordination and oppression;
if, by giving her the ballot, whereby she
could help protect herself and the interests
of her fireside, she should gain a little self-
respect and command the respect of her
brother who knows too well, and does not
always forget to remind her, that she may
have ever so earnest and anxious convic-
tions, when he goes to the polls any value-
less son of Adam so long as he can stagger
there if it be in a drunken stupor, is worth
more than the whole union of intelligent
womanhood.
	Canaan fell under the heavy curse of ser-
vitude in the tents of his brethren, but the
intelligence of the age has seen fit to de-
clare that he has served long enough, and
that emancipation was but his human right.
But woman must never be emancipated
from the curse of Eve! All classes may rise
higher and higher toward the golden age of
perfection, attainment and power, but her
inferiority is a patent truth, “briefly and
forcibly expressed.” Adam still never for-
gets to make grimaces at her from behind
the tree and to remind her that “the woman,
she gave it me and I did eat.” “Though
at first so ready to yield to the tempter, she
has ever since been so ready to yield to the
voice of God” that even Mr. Roberts ac-
knowledges her, man’s moral superior. But
no faithfulness, no self-abnegation, no in-
tellectual attainment in her can ever satisfy
the demands of justice or lift her beyond
“the great truth” that she is a mentally in-
ferior creature, without inherent right to
rule herself or to consent to the laws which
she will be compelled to obey.
	Mr. Roberts forestalls opinions as to his
coldness or tyranny by referring to his life
of which he great public knows nothing

[Column 2]
and cares less. It is quite sufficient that
his doctrines confirm men in tyranny and
imagined superiority and while his wife
may sit in “pleasant places,” complacently
indifferent to the great heart-throbbing of
the wcrld beyond the narrow circle of her
daily life, it is not every woman who is so
fortunately situated, nor is Mr. R., with
all his wisdom, wise enough to predict just
how his nearest and dearest may end their
days. Personalities, however, cut no figure
in the clash and battle of ideas. We are
only seeking for the truth deep in the heart
of creation, and a narrow application of
God’s curse of Eve is neither manly, just or
chivalrous.
“Ah, I doubt not thro.’ the ages one increasing
	purpose runs
And the thoughts of men are widened with the
	process of the suns.
Not in vain the distance beckons. Forward, for-
	ward let us range,
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	grooves of change.
Thro.’ the shadow of the globe we sweep into the
	younger day;
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of
	Cathay!”
Shall not women share the progress, the
advancement toward “the parliament of
man, the federation of the world,” when
“The common sense of most shall hold a fretful
	world in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in uni-
	versal law?”
Shall we forget that “all those who re-
ceive ray Gospel are sous and daughters in
my kingdom?” Shall we be bound by the
narrow sphere of home alone when we re-
member Mary, who was so sweetly com-
mended by Christ, for having chosen the
better part? Shall we forget the equality
which he declared between the sexes in ex-
pounding the marriage law? Or shall we
shrink into our narrow round of domestic
drudgery and leave man sole proprietor of
the ennobling studies of government and the
exalting comprehension of the works of
creation in the “fairy tales of science,” be-
cause, forsooth, he has an inherent right to
prescribe what we shall or shall not do?
	With what solicitous love and passion
Mr. Roberts warns men to pray before they
admit the demon of politics to their firesides,
and how he pleads that women will with-
draw their senseless, unrighteous demands!
Woman suffrage may be a new idea to him
we should judge it to be so but it is not so
to all women, and Mr. Roberts must offer
us something better than past political his-
tory, made by men alone, before we can
accede to his anxious request. Then,
“eliminate politics from the fireside!” Per-
haps it, too, was merely music, but we
have often been consoled for our lack of the
reality by an offering of the ghost in this
shape or something similar: “Today God
has thrust responsibility upon every man
and woman; every man to know how to
vote, and every woman to see that he votes
right!” Use your influence, woman! Every
woman’s influence is a power! In a conver-
sation a day or two ago a gentleman asked
a lady of what political complexion she
was? “Why should I care to know?”
she asked, innocently, “it matters not on
election day it doesn’t count I have no in-
centive to that kind of study.” “Oh, but
your boys, your boys!” he replied, “you
should teach them!” Ah, indeed! Then
what about the fireside? Then Mr. Rob-
erts fairly raises the hair of our heads on
end with a cry of "Danger to our homes!"

[Column 3]
Now, what under the sun, is the danger?
Will not a little time given to the study of
government or politics be more bracing in
every way than general novel reading, and
is it not quite as fitting to a sensible human
being of either sex? Mr. Roberts knows
by experience, perhaps, or, at least, the
present writer does, that while the average         
novel is enervating both to body and mind,
the vigorous prosecution of science is invig-
orating, and we rise from its study with a
joy, a mental tone and vigor that gives also
tone to the body and elasticity in manual
pursuits. But, alas! Government and
science are unfeminine; novel reading is in
better taste. And no one will call in ques-
tion the tardiness of tea, disorder of the
kitchen, neglect of children or general good-
for-nothingness, if only Madam is not lit-
erary, scientific, or a defender of woman’s
rights. The poet again: Our Whittier
said: “I am not afraid that men will be-
come less manly or women less womanly
by giving suffrage to women.” And as to
divorces, the “test of the pudding is in the
eating,” and Wyoming, (oh, that I might
say New York, Mr. Roberts, but I cannot,)
declares that their register of divorces is
less in proportion to population than that
of any other State. The nature of men and
women cannot be changed by the ballot.
True to that nature, they unite in the home
as in politics, one complementing the other,
subduing, assisting, fulfilling, completing
what neither can do alone—what neither
was ever intended to do alone. Helpmeet,
companion, queen in the home, as he is
king, with superiority to neither, God de-
signed that companionship, that bearing of
one another’s burdens, sharers of each
other’s fortunes, for no narrow sphere.
	But why do we want the ballot? That is
too big a question to be answered in a news-
paper article. One reason is that we feel
politically degraded. Franklin said that to
be unenfranchised was to be in political
slavery. When the Government
wanted to punish Jefferson Davis for rebel-
lion they simply disfranchised him. We
have to endure taxation without represent-
ation, whereas the meanest transient of the
correct gender can vote for the disposal of
taxes women have to pay. We are a part of
the people who are amenable to the coun-
try’s laws, but we have no voice in those
laws; though governed we have no power
of consent. Woman’s claims to the right
of suffrage cannot be less inherent than that
of mans.
	We consider that government of a
people is as the government of a fam-
ly, but on a large scale, and believe that
the moral and intellectual counsel of women
through the ballot can be no danger, but of
incalculable value; and, further, as we are
equally interested in free trade or contra-
wise, in the licensing of various evils, in
taxation—in a word, since we are in reality
a part of the people, suffering in the adver-
sity of the country, glad in its prosperity,
anxious for its morals, proud of its honors,
sharers of its burdens, we demand the ballot
as a right through which to express our
will for all mutual good; and, above all
things for the good, the moral protection,
the education, the happiness of our chil-
dren—the very thing to which the most
radical anti-suffragist would point as our
first and greatest duty.
	Mr. Roberts rather likes the saying of
Luther (we presume he means St. Augus-
tine,) about the rib of Adam from which
God made Eve, that he might protect her


Let us try an interpretation of the rib, if
it were meant for a symbol, with a little
independent originality, begging pardon of
the great Roberts, and the greater Luther.
May we not read an equality in the glorious
symbol, a side by side companionship, an
“I am king and thou my sister queen,” (for
God bade them have dominion.) Indeed,
we would ask Mr. R. to go back and read
Augustine clearer, and not mislead himself
and others by a part, only, of the text.
	His “glowing apostrophe to woman,”
was no doubt worthy of a knight of chiv-
alry; but we have outgrown the Middle
Ages, thank heaven, and women to whom
the Creator has given brains for independent
thought and desire for independent action,
are but poorly satisfied with ever so liberal
a dose of “taffy” when they are asking for
a little substantial bread and meat. Our
darling poet’s apostrophe to woman’s right
to progress through the willing hand of
God’s providence and love, was a far
sweeter aud wholesomer morsel than a worn
out rag of ignorant chivalry. What a
broader, better, truer knighthood do we
recognize in our intelligent poet! How
truly “the highest peak of all.”
	Mr. Roberts does not deny our right to
education, our moral superiority, or our in-
fluence for purity and goodness. Well,
that was kind. But, really, education
makes us feel, more and more, the galling
bonds of political bondage; moral superior-
ty, it seems, can never compensate our first
unfortunate mistake in Eden, and our in-
fluence, however great and good and pure,
must be so shackled that our little sons
learn early to regard us with contempt,
(the most unkindest cut of all)! Must be
confined within such narrow limits to be
duly feminine, that we, who have felt and
found the shackles galling, (mothers,
wives are we, with women’s tender hearts),
would almost exclaim: Remove education,
give us the convent veil or the retirement
of the Turkish slave-wife, for with our
wider vision the load becomes too heavy,
and your praises seem but airy conceits, or
insults that sink too deep.
	His figure of the confluence of the Mis-
souri and Mississippi with but an ocean to
rest in, might not be inaptly put in another
way. Political power has so long been ex-
ercised by man alone, unchecked by wo-
man’s higher moral sense, until, so full of
moral filth, it has become like the great
Hoang Ho which, depositing its silt in its
bed as it flows, it rises higher and higher
until at length no hand can stay its violent
outburst to the utter destruction of a prov-
ince with its millions and millions of hu-
man lives. So our governments, defiled by
their own corruptions, break out in strikes
and insurrections, revolutions, wars—civil
and otherwise. Admit a purer stream to
make the filthy one less turbid, and the
catastrophe would at least occur at more
widely separate periods.
RUBY LAMONT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EVENTS IN THE LIFE OF ELIZA
ROLLINSON.
	I was born September 13th 1824, was
raised very strictly in the Church of Eng-
land, of which I was a member until I was
old enough to think for myself. When I
was old enough to understand things as
they were I was not satisfied with what I
was being taught, but always prayed, from
my childhood up, feeling that there was a

[Column 2]
God who could hear and answer the prayers
of those who had faith in Him.
	I had read much in the Bible and won-
dered often what I could do to gain that
peace which the world could neither give
nor take away. I prayed many years for
this and searched for it among the churches,
but could not find it.
	In August, 1846 I was left a widow with
two small children, and had the asthma
very bad; was also troubled with fits. I
suffered fifty-one months, went to many
physicians but could get no relief; they
said I must go to the Great Physician as he
only could cure me. My answer to one of
them was: "Doctor, do you think I am
going to die and leave my little babes? No!
the Lord will not allow that.” I suffered
on but in answer to my prayers my life was
spared and I had power given to me to
obtain a living and had friends raised up to
me in times of need.
	One after another would say, “Come to
meeting.” I went, but could hear nothing
but “Believe and be saved.” I read my
Bible and prayed earnestly that I might re-
ceive an understanding of the same, where-
by I might obtain that which I had desired
so long.
	In the spring of 1851 an Elder of the
Church at West Bromwich, England, was
moved upon to send me a few copies of the
“Millennial Star.” He had never seen me
previous to this time. I read them over
and through the Spirit of the Lord which I
had prayed so long for, my understanding
was opened and I received much light and
knowledge.
	I attended an Easter sociable in company
with members of the Church and had a
time of rejoicing and was further enabled to
investigate the principles of the Gospel.
While doing so my deceased husband ap-
peared to me, smiled, spoke to me three
times, and departed, satisfying me that he
was pleased with the course I had taken. I
went to meeting regularly and saw a man
who for eight weeks had walked on crutches;
he was administered to by those holding
authority and was promised by them that
he should leave his crutches and walk
home. This he did. He bore a testimony
to the truth of the work and that God had
through His servants cured him. This
encouraged and increased my faith, and I
prayed three times each day that He might
cure me as he had that man, and I promised
that I would praise His name as long as He
would permit me to live. I heard of the
gift of tongues, and fasted and prayed that
I might witness the same at the Wednesday
meeting. I went and received answer to
my prayer to my satisfaction as part of the
interpretation was for me. “Unto you who
are not of this Church, thus saith the
Spirit of the Lord, if ye have faith and re-
pent of your sins, arise and be baptized in
the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the
remission of the same and you will receive
the desire of your heart in righteousness,
and be healed of all your infirmities.
	Two days later I went into the water and
was baptized and heard a voice say, “My
yoke is easy, my burden light.” I left my
affliction in the water and from that day to
this I have had no fits. I can testify that
I was healed by the power of God; I knov
that He lives and that He sent a prophet in
this age and that the sick are healed if
they have faith in Him. I have seen many
things to confirm me in the faith and stimu-
late me onward. I pray that I may be

[Column 3]
humble, and faithful to what I know to be
true. Let others do as they will my desire
is to serve God and keep His holy Com-
mandments; then I know he will give me
all I desire in the end for I know He is
holy, just and true. “Glory, honor, praise,
and power be unto the Lamb forever.”


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO.
	MINUTES of W. S. A. held April 16th,
1895, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Presi-
dent E. B. Ferguson in the chair Prayer
by Julia Druce. Roll called, minutes read
and approved. Dr. Ferguson referred to
the suffrage question now before the Con-
stitutional Convention, we shall have to
work hard, because the opposition is deter-
mined to win if possible, if the matter of
petition would settle the question, we should
have gained the day, because ours out-num-
bers their’s by thousands; many have gone
around with the petitions and just asked if
they were in favor of suffrage and by that
means got names that wanted it in the Con-
stitution, but did not know there were two
petitions. E. M. Price was anxious that ,
we establish a class. E. J. MacFarlane
moved that we get the books needed out of
the treasury, carried.
	Dr. Ferguson thought the first book
should be the Constitution of the United
States, we can spend many afternoons on
that. E. J. MacFarlane referred to the
new laws that are being prepared, Dr. Fer-
guson said the laws we have now are the
old English laws and were the work of a
woman. King Alfred was the first to com-
pile them and he named them after her.
Adjourned for two weeks. Benediction, E.
J. MacFarlane.

	Minutes of meeting held April 30th,
President E. B. Ferguson in the chair, a
short informal meeting was held, announce-
ments made of the coming Suffrage Confer-
ence; and business matters arranged.
Benediction by M. P. Silver.


Excursion to Provo,
JUNE 18, 19 & 20,
Via UNION PACIFIC,
On above dates Union Pacific
will sell round trip tickets
to Provo at $1.90, good
for return until June
22nd, 1895.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 24.          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1895. 		No. 2.


CONTENTS:

	Bishop O. F. Whitney—Remarks made at the
Tabernacle Sunday May 12, 1895. Woman Suf-
frage Column. Appeal to the Armenians. Lit-
erary Society—Caroline A. Crocheron. Woman
in Journalism—Lizzie Wilcox. R. S. & P. A.
Reports. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—President Young’s Birthday,
Letter From Lorenzo D. Young. Editorial Notes.
Lost Arts—Annie Wells Cannon.
	POETRY:—In Memoriam—L.A. Crandell. Ma-
ternal Influence N. C. Pennock. Affectionately
Inscribed To My Husband. Woman’s Place—
Belle Taylor.


IN MEMORIAM.

[Emily-Thornton Charles, of the Woman’s Na-
tional Press Association, died April 25, 1895.]
	One of the rare, sweet poets,
		Whose genius the pulses thrill,
	Whose inner life, with beauty rife
		Illumines the portals still.

	One of the strong, brave poets, 
		Whose soul with its love aflame 	
	With loyal youth, crowned regal truth
		In her country’s deathless fame.” 

	One of the loving poets, 
		Who the tender heart could reach
	Through rhythmic thought, that solace
			brought
		Beyond the power of speech,

	We yield our homage to thee, 
		We garland thy memory o’er,
	And loose thy hand, for angel band
		To clasp on the farther shore.
			L. A. Crandell, W. N. P. A.
Washington, D. C.					Ex.


MATERNAL INFLUENCE.
			BY M. C. PENNOCK.
THE subtle forces ruling Church and State
	Spring mainly from a mother’s molding will:
	The look, the touch, the burning words that
		thrill
Her crowing babe, its after years translate 
	In ruling deeds of public good or ill.
Would you the future of the State, direct?
	Guard well its nursery; watch the heart and
head
	That bend, in care, above its trundle bed.
Whose dimpled darlings mirror-like reflect
	All images before their vision spread
O mother, mistress of the world’s heart strings!
	Thy touch can wake “the music of the spheres”
	Thy lessons drench this earth in blood and tears
Thy cradle-song, clear as a bugle, rings 
	Down the long vista of succeeding years!
But could thy hand, so strong to point the way
	Directly strike the chords that voice the State;
	Less discords, then, would on our senses grate,
More potent still would prove thy magic sway
	To aid the right, and banish vice and hate. 
Alliance, O.							Ex.


THREE very prominent women are de-
sirous of coming to Utah to deliver lectures
in the Territory.


[Column One]

BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.
[Remarks made at the large Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, Sunday, May 12,1895.]
	Was the next speaker. He said “To
what I owe the distinguished honor that has
been placed upon me in being asked to fol-
low the eloquent ladies who have already
addressed you, I know not; particularly
am I at a loss to account for it, when I
think of the many able men and women by
whom I am surrounded, and who are better
qualified to interest and edify you on this
occasion than myself. Nevertheless I am
here to speak as God shall give me utter-
ance, trusting that I may have the Holy
Spirit, that I may say nothing that is un-
true, that is unwise, or that is not kind and
charitable.
	While the first lady was speaking, and 
when she mentioned the name of an im-
mortal poet whose genuis I much admire, 
my mind recalled the words of another 
poet who was his friend, who survived him, 
and who spoke these words concerning
him. 
Like an archangel, exiled for dark crimes, 
His spirit walked the earth in scorn and gloom, 
And where it smote, it smote like the simoom, 
Deadly, though beautiful. Yet there were times
*	*	*	*	when his great soul shone out 
In all the primal glory of its light. 
His songs were then remembrances of heaven, 
Dashed with a scoffing spirit at that earth
In which he seemed constrained to live. 
	I am not only an admirer of the genius
of Byron, but I agree with his friend Rogers, 
that there were times when his soul lifted 
itself above the clouds and mists of earth, 
and remembered some of that song which 
he was expected to sing for the betterment
and blessing of mankind. And when I 
contemplated these noble women, these
queens of thought, who have addressed us 
with so much eloquence and truth- when I 
thought of the opprobrium that has been 
heaped upon  them and their cause, their
names bandied about by every ribald
tongue, their purposes misunderstood, 
and themselves hated and despised per-
haps by men who are their inferiors, unable
to understand that motives that animate their
souls- I thought of the sublime words of
Byron:—-
He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow; 
He who surpasses or subdues mankind, 
Must look down on the hate of those below. 
Though high above the sun of glory glow, 
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread, 
Round him are icy rocks, and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head. 
And thus reward the toils which to those summits
	led. 
	But there is this consolation, which these
champions of equal rights may take to 
themselves, which we may all cherish and 
derive some comfort from, and that is, that 
this is the treatment which has always been 
meted out to those who came to bless the 
world, to lift up mankind, to teach a new

[Column two] 
doctrine destined to ameliorate the condition
of the race. Prophets, poets, philosophers, 
sages, reformers of every description- the 
world has not bowed down to them, has 
not placed upon their brows the laurel
wreath, has not showered blessings upon
them while living. It has ever been that 
the living prophets were despised and 
trampled upon, while the sepulchres of the 
dead prophets were garnished; but it shall yet
be with this cause, as with every other cause
which holds within it the truth; the stone
which the builders rejected shall become the 
head of the corner. 
	When I was first notified that I would be 
expected to say a few words after these
ladies had spoken, I thought a similar
thought to one that has been expressed; I 
said to myself, what can I say? It is true I 
am better acquainted with this congrega-
tion than my lady friends, and the people
generally are better acquainted with me. 
Still I wondered what I should say after
their eloquence had entranced you. There 
were three ideas that came to my mind, and 
they were suggested by two passages of 
scripture, viz. 
	"And God created man in his own image, 
in the image of God created he him, male 
and female created he them."
	The three thoughts suggested to me were
these:-
	Firstly, that if God created man in His 
own image, then it follows as a logical 
sequence that God is in the image of man. 
	Secondly, that Deity, which created man
and woman, male and female, in its own
image, after its own likeness, must of 
necessity involve and comprehend the male
and female principles. 
	Thirdly, that if we be the children of
God; if it be true,as we have sung, and as I 
doubt not, that in the heavens parents are not
single, but that we have a Mother as well as 
a Father there, then it follows that we, as the 
sons and daughters of God, bear within us 
the embryotic germs of Deity, and are 
capable by advancement, by progression, of 
becoming like our Father and our Mother in 
heaven; that it is possible, in other words, for 
man to become God, and if this be true, it 
teaches that there was a time when that 
being whom we now worship- that our 
eternal Father and Mother were once man
and woman in mortality. 
	These are well- known Mormon doctrines. 
and they ought to be well known Christian
doctrines, for they are sustained by the 
Scriptures, which, when properly under-
stood and interpreted, will be found to 
teach, by implication at least, these truths. 
	Seventy-five years ago, upon just such a 
bright spring morning as that which dawned
in glory upon this valley today, in the 
backwood of western New York, a boy about
fourteen years of age went out into the woods
to pray. He was "reaching after God," he 
was seeking for truth, not being content
with what was taught by the teachers of 
the time. He had seen that they differed 
among themselves and therefore, taking


[Column 1]
the word of God which said, "If any man
lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth
to all men liberally and upbraideth not," and
believing that saying, he had determined to
put it to the test. He declared that while
he was praying, like one pleading for his
life, a power came over him which had the
effect of paralyzing his tongue so that he
could no longer speak. A horror of dark-
ness fell upon him, and it seemed as if he
must pass over the brink of destruction.
But he continued to pray, and just at the
moment when he thought he should give
way to despair, he saw a light descending
from heaven directly over his head, of such
surpassing brilliance as to exceed that of the
noon-day sun. A pillar of light descended
and rested above his head. In the midst
of this pillar he saw two glorious beings in
the form of men. One of them pointing to
the other said, "This is my beloved son
hear him."
	This was a startling revelation. The
youth obtained more light than he had
prayed for, perhaps more than he could
then comprehend; for here was the proof
stamped anew upon a human mind, that
God, who made man in His own image, is
indeed in the image of man.
	I am aware that we Mormons are accused
of interpreting the scriptures too literally.
I bear in mind the coming to this City of a
learned Hindoo, a Mr. Nagarkar, who
represented the Bramo-Sumaj at the
World's Congress of Religions. He
claimed that only oriental peoples were
capable of fully understanding the Hebrew
Scriptures; that Christianity being an
oriental religion, could only be comprehend-
ed by the people of the orient. He said
that all western nations interpret the Bible
too literally.
	Well, perhaps we sometimes do, and we
may say also that perhaps the eastern or
oriental nations spiritualize the word of God
too much. In fact we think all the Christian
churches are given to this more or less;
that they do not recognize that there are two
interpretations, a dual interpretation, to be
placed upon the word of God. When we
speak of baptism, for instance, of being born
again, we do not mean a baptism of water
alone, but a baptism of the Spirit as well.
Immersion in water is only half a baptism,
and so with the spiritual baptism. As the
spirit without the body is imperfect, so is
the body without the spirit. And as one
baptism is imperfect without the other, so
also is one interpretation—the temporal in-
terpretation of the word of God, imperfect
without the spiritual interpretation, and the
spiritual imperfect without the temporal.
	Now, we hear Christians say that when
it is declared that God created man in His
own image, it means the moral image, and
that we are not to drag the Deity down, and
have the presumption to claim that He is in
the form of man. But that is precisely
what we do claim. What this youth saw
seventy-five years ago, the Father and the
Son in the form of men, is our conception of
God; not of the Holy Ghost, the third
person in the Trinity, but of the Father
and the Son, who have tabernacles as
tangible as that of man. I say this was a
startling revelation; because at that time
the world believed God to be merely an
infinite spirit, a universally diffused essence
which, as Pope says:
	Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze,
	Glows in the stars and blossoms in the trees,
	Lives thro' all life, extends thro' all extent,
	Spreads undivided, operates unspent.

[Column 2]
	This, to us, is an admirable description of
the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost; but it is
not a description of that God who created
man in His own image, and of whom it is
written that His Son, Jesus Christ was the
express image of His Father's person.
When the disciples of Jesus asked Him to
show them the Father, He replied, "Have
I been so long with you. and yet have ye
not seen me. He that hath seen me, hath
seen the Father."
	Therefore, we claim we have sufficient
evidence, even in the Bible, (aside from the
revelation to Joseph Smith) to show that
we are indeed of the same order of beings
as God, our Heavenly Father; that we are
indeed His sons and daughters, that He has
placed us here to contend for the right, to
reach after Him, to undergo the varied ex-
periences which fall to the lot of mortals
and thus become fitted to associate with our
Father and Mother in heaven. Why should
we think it unreasonable that children
should become like their parents? Is it not
the hope, the fond anticipation of every
good mother and father on earth that their
children shall arrive at maturity, and be-
come noble and useful members of society,
become like their parents here? Then if we
be the children of God, why think it un-
reasonable, presumptuous or blasphemons
that we should hope to become as God? Is
it not, after all, a mere matter of education,
of development, of expansion? No matter
how wide the gulf which separates us from
Him, that gulf can be bridged, that gulf
was bridged, by the atonement of our
Savior, who came to render this achievement
possible. Men and women, sons and
daughters of God, can cross over that gulf
in time, and enter upon the plane occupied
by their heavenly parents. These are the
things that we aspire to, that are promised,
and which sweeten adversity and render per-
secution tolerable. This is our belief in re-
lation to all the world, to the whole human
race. Progress is written upon everything
that God has made. The stars that glitter
in the blue vault of heaven are educated
worlds, homes of the redeemed and glorified
or of those who, like ourselves, yet hope
for glorification. This earth is but one
of millions of planets that have preceded it,
and have become the habitations of the
righteous: and those who live here by every
word that proceedeth from the mouth of
God will render themselves worthy of
celestial exaltation. There is a glory of
the sun, a glory of the moon, and a glory
of the stars, and as one star differs from
another star in glory, so also is the resurec-
tion of the dead. These are the induce-
ments held out to us. If we press on we
may attain to a glory that shall blaze like
the sun at noonday, or if not to that, to one
that will beam like the moon in milder
lustre, or if not to that, then to the twinkling
glory of the stars. But what should be the
aspiration of a child of God? To go where
God and Christ dwell, to inherit the celestial
kingdom and be satisfied with nothing less.
	It is our desire to progress. We believe
in serving God and in befriending the hu-
man family; in doing everything possible
for the advancement of the race. When I
arose I did not expect to say a word upon
the subject of woman suffrage. I will say
this, however, that I regard that movement
as one of the levers by which the Almighty
is lifting up this fallen world. It is a meas-
ure of progress, a step in the march of hu-
man liberty, and will sweep from its path
all opposition that lifts its puny arm and

[Column 3]
voice against it. I feel this in every fibre
of my being. I am glad to say that I ad-
vocated equal suffrage upon the floor of the
Constitutional Convention, and voted to
have it placed in the Constitution of the
State.
	May God bless every movement for the
advancement of the cause of common hu-
manity, for the enlargement of the borders
of liberty. May we, as Americans, show
that America has indeed set an example of
liberality to all the world, that she stands
like a goddess in the midst of the earth
holding aloft the torch that shall kindle and
illumine the nations. This government
was founded for that purpose, and as
champions of progress, let us be true to our-
selves, and show that we believe in the
divine mission and destiny of our country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	MINUTES of W. S A. held May 20th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Dr. E. B. Fer- 
guson in the chair. Sang “Hark the sound
of myriad voices.” Prayer by M. E. Bas-
sett. Minutes of two meetings read and
approved. Business referring to printing
literature laid before the meeting. Five
dollars voted for that purpose. R. M. Fox
spoke upon the new paper, “Men and Wo-
men,” also Dr. E. B. Ferguson; many of
the members subscribed for it. The Utah
Constitution to be brought up at our next
meeting, E. M. Price to speak on judiciary
points. Dr. Ferguson read a list of books
that we should try to obtain. Adjourned
for two weeks. Benediction by E. M.
Price.			M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

GRAND Co., W. S. A.
	A MEETING was called here at Moab,
May 8, 1895, at 2 p.m., for the purpose of
organizing a Woman’s Auxiliary Suffrage
Association,
	Mrs. Caine of Salt Lake City, one of the
Executive Committee of the Utah W. S. A.,
called the meeting to order.
	Mr. Taylor offered the opening prayer.
	Mrs. Caine spoke at some length to ex-
plain the object of the proposed organiza-
tion, and the subject was then put to the
vote of those present. The vote was first
taken by the saying of aye and no, but as
the ayes from the women were rather in-
audible, a second vote was taken by those
in favor standing up. Those in favor
were in the majority.
	The election of the officers was next pro-
ceeded with, which resulted in the appoint-
ment of Miss S. J. Elliot, as President,
Mrs. A. W. Warner as Vice President,
Mrs. Helen Kirk, Secretary, Mrs Esther
Tangreen, Treasurer.
	Mrs. Elliot, as President elect was
called upon to address the meeting.
Speeches were also made by Mrs. Peter-
son, Mrs. O. W. Warner, Mrs. Ham-
mond, Mrs. Stevenson, Mrs. Brack, Hon.
F. A. Hammond.
	Mrs. Caine spoke shortly upon the sub-
ject of statehood for Utah.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Mrs.
Caine and Mrs. Stevenson for their able as-
sistance in forming the organization. 
	The names of those who expect to become
members of the Auxiliary Woman’s Suf-
frage Association were then taken and fifty
names were enrolled.
	The meeting was brought to a close by the
singing of the hymn, “Our God we raise to
Thee,” and a prayer by Hon. F. A. Ham-
mond; adjourned at the call of the President.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MY
HUSBAND.

O, MY husband! My lover! Indeed of a truth,
Who enchanted my spirit in bright days of youth,
Tho’ a fourth of a century’s past since the day
You first called me wife, and we’re both growing
	grey,
Tho’ changes and sorrows together we’ve known,
Yet my heart is still true, as in happy days flown,
And in thy dear presence a sweet, mystic spell
Thrills my being with rapture, that words cannot
	tell. 
’Tis a joy, ’tis a peace that lovers well know, 
Yet, we’re not the same lovers we were years ago,
For our love has been tested in various ways,
By the pitiless storm and the sun’s glorious rays 
Separation has only cemented the chain
That has bound us together through pleasure and
	pain,
So, our love may be voted the love that will last
Through the changes of time and the tempest’s 
	rude blast,
We are bound by all ties, that are strong, pure,
	and true
By the priesthood of God, and its covenant new;
By the children our Father has unto us given,
Bringing each to each nearer, and nearer to
	heaven.
In our youth we resemble the magnet, and steel,
Attracted together by love’s wondrous zeal,
We could not tell why, yet our faith was benign,
That in this our fond union there was a design,
That the hand of Omnipotence ruled in each life,
And brought us together as husband and wife.
This day, as the “Silver bells” chime in my ears,
My heart swells with thanks and my eyes fill with
	tears,
Tears of gratitude deep that the “lot” fell on you,
My kind, noble husband, tried, faithful and true. 
								MARIE


WOMAN’S PLACE.

SOME say that a woman’s place is at home,
	Sheltered and safe, where no rude winds blow.
That her feet are far too tender to roam
	Along the rough paths where a man may go.

While others contend that woman’s sphere
	Is out in the world, as much as a man’s
That she can have nothing at all to fear
	From taking a part in his works and plans.

Yes, woman can work with hands and head
	To steer her vessel across life’s sea,
But the heart will always take the lead, 
	And pilot her safely wherever she be.

Not to everyone is a fireside given,
	Nor need all women the stern world face,
She can scatter seeds over earth from heaven. 
	And gladden the world with beauty and grace.

But woman alone can woman free,
	And in raising herself uplift the race
To a higher life. This can only be 
	When woman is given her proper place. 
Ex.							BELLE TAYLOR


[Column 1]
APPEAL FOR THE ARMENIANS.

	[Address of Lady Somerset before a
Representative Gathering at St. James'
Hall, London.]

	RECENTLY a largely attended meeting
was held at St. James Hall, London, for
the purpose of expressing sympathy with
the victims of Mohammedam fanaticism in
Armenia and elsewhere in Turkey and to
exercise some influence upon the policy of
the British government in behalf of the
sufferers. Among the distinguished

[Column 2]
speakers were the Duke of Argyll, the
Bishop of Hereford, Dr. Percival, Profes-
sor Story, the moderator of the church of
Scotland and the mayor of Liverpool. To
none of these, however, were the forensic
honors of the event aecorded, but to a wo-
man. The London Daily News declared
that Lady Henry Somerset’s address was
the speech of the evening and reported it
verbatim, an honor accorded only to that
distinguished lady and to the duke of
Argyll. The eloquent address will be
read with interest. Lady Somerset said:
	“The crescent of the Turkish mosque has
become the scimitar of the bloody-handed
Turkish soldier. Henceforth that crescent
stands forth in the eyes of all nations as
impossible to cleanse as the hand of Lady
Macbeth, while the cross, gleaming on ten
thousand church spires, sheds forth the mild
effulgence of a beacon that means deliver-
ance wherever its heavenly rays extend.
Never were these two symbols of a dying
and an ever-living cause set over against
each other in a contrast so vivid and signifi-
cant as now. The martyrdoms of the first
century in Jerusalem have been suffered
again at Sassun.  The hills and valleys of
Judea are hardly more sacred than the
blood saturated hlls and the valleys of
Armenia.
	“What was the crime of the Armenians?
That they cherished in their brave and
loyal hearts the Gospel of peace on earth
and good will to men: that the Bible was
their most sacred possession; that the home
life had one central figure rather than a
group of women despoiled of their choicest
heritage—the life long fidelity of one man to
whom their own had been faithfully pledged.
This was the stone of their stumbling, the
rock of their offense in the fierce eyes of
their Moslem foe.
	“Three figures stand forth on the lurid
canvas of this History: the priest who had
sustained and comforted his little flock,
gathered with him in a cave on the hill-side,
was too old to flee when the Turks searched out their covert. He was afterward found,
bayoneted, mutilated, his reverend gray
hairs half concealing the red signs of the
cross that had been cut on his forehead—
indelible mark of the undying hate that
the followers of Mohammed cherish for the
disciples of the Galilean.
	“Another is the scene when Shakkeh,
the sister in- law of Krikor, the famed Ar-
menian leader, herself a woman well known
for her high character, courage and wealth,
took her little boy in her arms, and, being
pursued by the savage soldiery, flung her-
self down a precipice, beneath which she
was found dead by faithful friends who
came to seek her place of martyrdom; as
they simply said: ‘We buried her and the
little one in remembrance of the hospitality
we had so often enjoyed in her happy
home.”
	“The third is a young wife and mother
but eighteen years of age, who, hunted
like a partridge on the hillside, ran with
her little three-months-old boy in her arms
until she was overtaken by the Turkish
troops and her boy slain before her eyes,
his little form being tossed on their bayonets
from one soldier to another; and as she
turned to fly they began to despoil her of
her clothing, when, to their surprise, they
found on her a belt filled with gold coins,
and during their quarrel over the distribu-
tion of their booty, she slipped away and
concealed herself among the fastnesses of

[Column 3]
the rocks, where she was afterward joined
by her husband: and the two escaped and
are here with us tonight.
	“For what did they die—the good priest,
the brave lady, the hunted little mother’s
child? They died that the Gospel—which
raises woman up, and with her lifts toward
Heaven the world—might have free course
to run and be glorified. They died that
the untrammelled, beneficent, consecrated
life of England’s purest womanhood might
slowly come to women in their own beauti-
ful and pleasant land. For they knew as
we do that even as the progress of a June
day is traced on the earth’s map by the sun-
shine, so the widening way of a free Gospel
is traced by woman’s happiness and man-
hood’s exaltation. For them, already
Christianity had done much, for us it has
done more; to them the tender dawn had
come, to us the noontide splendor.
	“It is fitting that an Englishwoman's 
voice should be lifted for the Armenian
woman in this great circle of England’s
power, culture and opportunity. A hun-
dred thousand women wearing the White
Ribbon—emblem of purity and peace—are
invisibly present with me as I stand here
trying to represent their holy indignation
and burning love for their sisters yonder in
the clutch of the harem despot at Constanti-
nople.
	“The watchword of our great nation
today should be not ‘peace with honor’—
for these are words that in the presence of
the lamb upon Armenian hillsides to which
no wind is tempered become a reproach if
not a blasphemy; but rather let us cease to
cry peace, peace, when there is no peace;
and lifting up our hearts to God for power,
let men and women throughout the Eng-
glish-speaking race, in broad America and
Great Britain highly resolve that the rally-
ing cry of Armenian deliverance shall be
peace with purity, peace with fidelity,
peace with loyalty, firm and unfaltering to
the Gospel of Christ and of the Golden
Rule.”


LITERARY SOCIETY.

	THE American History and Literature 
Club was organized April 3, 1895, at the
home of James Howard, South Bountiful,
Davis Co., with the following officers:
President, Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron; Sec-
retary, Caroline A. Crocheron; Assistant
Secretary, Jennie Howard, and Eveline
Parkin as Treasurer. Committee on pro-
gramme Nellie E. Parkin and Lucy J.
Howard.
	Our meetings are held weekly and much
interest is manifested.
		CAROLINE A. CROCHERON, Sec.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

	Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - -	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City paper's deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines Of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite 2. C. M, L Business hours from
10 a.m. to’S p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to.
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, 
second-class matter.,
	SALT LAKE CITY 15, 1895.


PRESIDENT YOUNG’.S BIRTHDAY.
	ON the first of June, 1895, at the Young
Re-union in the Social Hall, the following
interesting letter was read, which awakened
many tender recollections in the minds
of those present.
	A letter of greeting from Patriarch Lo-
renzo D Young, was read by Brother
Franklin W. Young, as follows:
		SALT LAKE CITY, June 1, 1895.
President Brigham Young and the members
	   of the Young Family Association. 
	Dear Brothers and Sisters:—It would
have given me great pleasure to meet with
you on this momentous occasion, the anni-
versary of the birthday of a great and good
man, one whose deeds live after him, and
whose memory is still green in the hearts of
those who loved and honored him.
	I would like to talk to you a little about
the things that lie near my heart. 
	I stand, as it were, on the threshold of
another world, and I look back on the
years that have vanished like a dream, and
have taught me so many lessons; and I long
with infinite longing to impart some of my
thoughts to you.
	After our toilsome journey to reach this
valley, that was to us the Promised Land,
we arrived here in the early morning; we
were weary and travel-stained, but our
courage was still undaunted. My brother,
Brigham, was riding with Brother Wood-
ruff. He rose up from his seat in the car-
riage and exclaimed in a voice that silenced
any doubt that might have arisen, “This is
the place, this is the place" and we looked
around at the wilderness of sage brush and
black crickets, and knew that forbidding as
it was it was henceforth to be our home.
	Look around you today and answer, Was
he not inspired? His body is resting on the
hillside where the trees murmur a requiem
and the flowers perfume the breeze that
wanders above him, but his glrorous spirit
is reaping the reward of his arduous labor
and it will only be a little time till we will
follow. Let us live humble lives, forsake
the ways of the world and prepare to meet
him. If I understand these celebrations we
come here for the purpose of becoming bet-
ter acquainted with each other, for the
purpose of strengthening the ties of
friendship, for a reunion of love and good
feeling. You have been strewing the roses
of affection and remembrance on an honored
grave; do not forget to scatter flowers of
kindness around you at all times. 
	We honor the dead, and we owe a great
duty to the living. Let us learn to love


and be kind to each other, and in this way
cement the bonds of relationship till we
form an unending chain that will reach
from this world to that other glorious place
where no trouble or sorrow can ever enter.
	I would like to meet with you, but my
strength will not permit, but I pray God to
bless you all with His Holy Spirit. May it be
guide to your footsteps and a light to your
pathway in the journey of life. May you
all live to celebrate the birthday of this
great man for many, many years.
	LORENZO D. YOUNG.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES

	WE desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Union Pacific excursion rates
as published in our columns. It will be a
good opportunity for those who desire to
take a little recreation during the hot
weather.

	THE Relief Society conference of this
Stake of Zion was held today in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. President Angus M. 
Cannon was present and President Zina D.
H. Young with her Counselors Sisters Jane
S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith. The
written resignation of both President Horne’s
counselors were presented and acted upon,
and two other counselors elected to fill the
vacancies; Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon. The minutes of 
the conference will be published later.

	THE pamphlet containing the speeches of
Hon. O. F. Whitney made in the Constitu-
tional Convention is now ready for distribu-
tion. The County W. S. Associations
should avail themselves of this opportunity 
and send a few stamps for postage on receipt 
of which we will forward the literature.
Those who read and study the speeches of
F. S. Richards and O. F. Whitney will
find some good arguments, and much de-
sirable information on this important subject
which is so much discussed and so indiffer-
ently understood viz. political equality.
The pamphlets have been published by the
Utah Woman Suffrage Association and are
freely distributed, the means being gener-
ously given by the ladies of Salt Lake City
and County, in the hope of setting before
the people some of the why’s and where-
fore’s of the reasons for equal suffrage for
men and women.

	MRS. Arthur Brown gave a pleasant recep-
tion and tea at her home to-day, to the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and other lady friends.
Mrs. Brown is a very genial and gracious
hostess, and on this occasion as upon simi-
lar ones, her parlors were artistically deco-
rated giving them the appearance of a 
bower of roses the fragrance and beauty
were specially delightful. We shall not
attempt to give a description of the scene,
but suffice to say everything was in the
most perfect taste for the enjoyment of her
guests, and the conversation of such ladies
as Mesdames Judd, Baldwin, Kimball,
Clawson, Henderson, Richards, Kraft,
L. F. and A. F. Young and others
equally brilliant, together with the “Club”
women made the hours go swiftly by. Mrs.
Brown in a very artistic way read Eugene
Field’s poem The Conversazione, which was
heartily applauded. Miss Maude Pratt
opened with the song “Last Night” and
Mrs. R. M. Fox read an original humorous
poem “Woman’s Sphere.” Miss Laura
Hyde gave an appropriate recitation. Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. W. Cannon gave in her own characteristic
way, Watkins Quest, and some club mem-
bers gave expression to their feelings in
thanks and appreciation of the courtesy and
kindness extended to the club. The affair
was in every respect a happy one, except
for the absence of guests, who were either
out of town, or had previous engagements.
	MRS. and Miss Mackintosh gave an ele-
gant At Home, at their handsome residence
in honor of Mrs. Lane of Washington, D. C.
Everything was on the most fashionable 
and elaborate scale. The house in itself is
magnificent, and its arrangements and fur-
nishings grand and imposing. It reminds
one of an old castle, except that it is too
modern in tone, and has not the sombre old-
ness of the days of knights and Barons. 
The floral decorating was simply indescriba-
ble except by an artist. The beauty, or 
American blush roses predominated, but
there were many other more delicate and 
paler roses and other blossoms in charming
contrast. The dainty refreshments partaken
of in the midst of so much that charmed
the eye and gratified the sense was like
feasting on ambrosia, and one could easily
imagine fairy land, so enchanting was the 
occasion. Conversation in such a place,
and at such a time, was naturally inspiring,
and the constant coming and going of new
faces, and dear, delightful friends must have 
made the hearts of the charming hostesses
glad and happy. Mrs. Lane, who has been 
in Salt Lake before was most gracious to all
and every one felt on meeting her that
peculiar fascination, which makes one forget
time and place and linger on, until the next
introduction reminds one of the fact that
five hundred or more are also to extend and
receive greetings. A band of musicians in 
the hall of the grand staircase discoursed
melodious, dreamy music which floated out
upon the perfumed air and mingled with 
the conversation of the happy company,
who half unconsciously sipped their tea or
partook of ices, creams, etc., or strolled
from room to room admiringly. It was a 
most delightful afternoon. Mrs. Mackin-
tosh may certainly be congratulated on the 
happy success of the effort to give her friends
the opportunity of meeting her very charm-
ing guest and friend.
	A GRAPHIC lecture and recital was given
by Ida Snow (daughter of President Lorenzo
Snow) on the evening of June 14th, at
Unity Hall. The lady has traveled in
Europe and tarried in some of the most in-
teresting cities, and has evidently made
good use of her time and is well qualified
by study and observation to tell what she
has seen and to describe accurately places
and people for the satisfaction of others, who
while listening to her clear, well-modulated
voice cannot fail to be highly entertained.
The first part of her lecture was devoted to
her own first impressions of Venice, the
Grand Canal by moonlight, its novelty and
dazzling splendor, with its tower and stately
palaces rising from the water, it was almost
like seeing it in a vision so life-like was
her vivid word painting. The Rialto bridge
was described picturesquely, the music
floating on the water from a brilliantly il-
luminated gondola under the marble rock
of the Rialto; the gondoliers strange woon-
ing at every turn, ah Italia! In the happiest
manner Miss Snow described the Piazza of
St. Marco with its elegant colonnades and
polished marble palaces, its square paved
with marble promenades; the tranquil indo-


lent life of the Italians brooding all day
long over their little cups of coffee, and the
world-famous pigeons. Palace of the Doges,
the beautiful architecture and grand paint-
ings some of the masterpieces specially
mentioned, such as Tintoretta’s, “The Para-
dise,”—“The Triumph of Venice” by Paul
Veronese and others, also the Venetian
paintings in the Academia delle Belle Art,
by the Bellini, Carpaccio and other celebra-
ted masters. Many other striking pitcures
were drawn and elaborately' portrayed- her
lecture should be given in a large hall, and
is worthy of a numerous audience, one
must have been very unimpressionable not
to have appreciated the lecture. The scene
rorn “As You Like It,” given afterwards
showed to good advantage the ladies dra-
matic talent. Miss Snow’s next lecture
will be Rome, Naples and Switzerland.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LOST ARTS

	WITH some little trepidation I venture to
write a few thoughts about this subject I
choose to call Lost Arts, for perhaps I am
not in tone with the age, and the club
women and advanced thinkers will judge
me as behind the times and call me a
"moss back" when I tell you what I con-
sider lost arts. However, thoughts will 
pass through my mind sometimes like
these, and though I. know the present ad-
vantages to children and women for educa-
tion are far in advance of the past, I won-
der sometimes do we not slight nature, and
force a growth both of body and of mind in
our eagerness to teach and train. Is the
fruit of the green house as luscious and as
firm as that of the garden? Does not the
forced growth injure the flower? There
are several things I consider Lost Arts and
I do not think the present substitutes afford
ample compensation—childs play—-My heart
delights so in nature and everything natu-
ral without affectation of any kind that with
regret and almost pain I notice the studied
and careful movements of children in their
play. I told some little girls yesterday "you
don't know how to play to the fullest en-
joyment, you have been taught too much."
Nowadays little ones, so little, are in
schools of physical culture, kindergartens
and dancing classes, all under trained
teachers. The play and the motions are so
artistically and methodically aranged that
the child is old beyond his years, and sigh-
ing I think of those childish days when
without a teacher of any kind a troop of
roguish children (there were many of us
boys and girls) used to play that "horried"
game of "back out." How we climbed the
apple trees never caring for the few
scratches on our arms or the few rips in our
clothes, swinging from the highest branches,
sometimes stopping long enough to "skin
the cat," then drop to the grassy ground
below. Could a circus girl do better than
that? How we scaled those high stone
walls and ran with the swiftness of an In-
dian along the smooth and rounded surface
and with an Indian shout and a call of
"River of my race receive me," leaped to
the other side a distance of some twelve or
fourteen feet. Did we stop to think is that
graceful, is that according to the rule? no,
we only plunged right on regardless of
everything but the fear of being "backed
out." Then the old rambling barn, what
a place for hide and seek; how we slid down
the mangers into the grain bins, under the

[Column 2]
hay, everywhere like so many rats; afraid
of the horses or cows? no indeed, afraid of 
nothing but the overseer, who didn't care
to have us spoil the hay and when the
alarm was given "James is coming," how
we made for the windows and leaped into
the corral below. What matter if we struck
a cow in our jump or skinned a shin, we
only laughed at our happy escape and be-
gan to plan another sport. Those great
piles of lumber in the back yard, what end-
less amusement they afforded how we 
climbed them just to jump off again. What
glorious teeters they made and wasn't it
fun this swinging up and down under those
great old cottonwood trees; whether as
candlestick or seated on the end. Did we
ever fall or get hurt? oh yes, many times
but that only added to the pleasure, for
the sweet childish sympathy and comfort
made us love on another all the more.
	Then sometimes in the evenings we
played battle with the fariest of maidens, a 
perfect Juno in figure on the one side and
the stoutest of boys a true Roman on the
other for our generals. We drilled and
marched and fought like regular Trojans
to the music of our own voices and with
weapons of our own manufacture. Then
those long hard walks in the canyons with
well-filled baskets, big sun-shade hats,
probably a few ropes for jumping, swinging
or games of "Copenhagen." How with
the rising sun we began those long tramps 
halting at the first spring for a refreshing
drink from some bright tin cup. Was wa-
ter ever sweeter or colder? stopping now
and then to cut a strong willow cane, and
then at the rock bridge to call our names
just for the fun of hearing the echoes.
Halting again at the Empire mill for
another drink and a run along the mill race.
Are we hungry when Pleasant Valley is at
last reached? well, yes indeed and while
the boys prepare the camping ground and
tie back the willows to make room in shady
corners for a pleasant rest, the girls unpack
those precious blaskets. What lunches!
was there ever a banquet half so fine? There
were no signs then in the canyon to "keep
off the grass" or to keep away from the wa-
ter, or not to cut the trees, and we made us
willow bridges that we might climb the
hills on either side, and we twined wreaths
of the birch leaves for our hats, and we
cut long walking canes and in the trunks of
many trees the young chevaliers cut their
own and their sweethearts names. How
we climbed the mountains to the very top,
and our untaught natures drank in the view
of the valley. There was the city where
lay our happy homes. We could see it just
awakening and knew by the blue curling
smoke that those at home were only now
preparing the early breakfast. There lay
the blue and lovely lake we knew so well
shining in the morning's sunlight, and be-
yond towards the eastern hills was the
graveyard where perhaps with a sigh we
thought of some loved on buried there,
who the year before had climbed with us to
that summit and gazed in rapture on that
self-same scene. Was it a brother or a
friend it matters not, it was on beloved,
and the sighs and tears always mingle with
the merriment and laughter. At evening
after all this climbing and playing and
sporting, gaily we wend our way homeward
with ou baskets refilled with the blue and
scarlet flowers of the hills, faces tanned and
sun-burned, shoes almost worn out, dresses
which in the morning were so smooth and

[Column 3]
pretty now rumpled and soiled. Weary,
yes a little, tired enough for a long night's
sweet sleep, but hearts leaping ” with the 
pleasure of that never to be forgotten day.
Oh, those lovely hills, those apply trees,
that dear old barn, those massive walls,
what endless joyous thoughts you now re-
call.
	Modern children, I pity you, walled in
close roomes with bars, and trapeze, and
rings, and wire frames with colored balls,
marching, dancing, posing, counting to
the music of a school piano, listening to
lectures of what not to eat and how to eat
it. Think of the joy of the apples orchards
and the locuts groves where some straight
limbed tree affords all the amusement of
the modern gymnasium, think of the grassy
ground beneath where like fairies or
brownies you can take fantastic steps , to
the music of the winds and birds, think of
the lovely green hills where you can gather
the red and blue, the purple pink and yel-
low flowers and always above- it all, the
blue and lovely sky. Such were the Kin-
der-gartens, and gymnasiums and hygiene
of the children of the pioneers, and can you 
find in the community now, men and wo-
men better developed physically or mentally
than they? Nature is after all the purest,
the most perfect school.
	CONVERSATION:-You don't mean says
one that this is lost, don't people talk now-
a-days, yes I suppose they do, but not like
they used to. A little miss once said to
me I should think your hoe would just
be delightful for I notice whether at the 
table or in the parlor, your mother talks
with you about your lessons, or the books
you are reading, or the music you are
learning, just as though you were as old as
she and of course you learn to like your
studies better; and it was true, we would
converse about different topics at home and
discuss certain questions in a most delight
ful manner; and long evenings of converse
interspersed with a little music was the 
regular order of a home where many friends
and many strangers often joined and still
recall the pleasant hours.
	Other homes were probably just the same
but now I never see that kind of entertain-
ment, if a few friends drop in or one gives
a party it is not the old-fashioned conversa-
tion that leads, now it - must be cards, or if
an invited party there must be some expen-
sive musician or accomplished reader hired
to etnertain, and the company resolves itself
into a meeting and sits with folded hands to
listen to a prepared program. All this is 
very nice of course still those must have
been most fascinating salons of the French
women where men and women of letter
and of war met and conversed on the
leading topics of the day, and again those
evenings of Gearge Elliot’s must have been
delightful where in company with Herbert
Spencer and other great minds, she convers-
ed on literature, travel and music, then
Margaret Fuller's afternoons in conversa-
tion with Emerson and other literary. Bos-
tonians certainly were highly interesting.
Why don't people study more for the sake
of happy converse? Is that not what your
clubs are for, merely a school, to educate
one to converse intelligently and pleasingly,
yet at almost every gathering the club does
not lose its identity and become an informal
meeting of friends to exchange sentiments
and ideas, but often remains formal and con-
ventional as the club meeting itself. Ah!
you say where are the George Elliots, the


Margaret Fullers the Madame De Staels to
entertain one nowadays. True those were
master minds and shone all the brighter for
then there were few women who cared to
study literature and science as they did, but
there are in every community bright intel-
ligent women whose conversation would be
most delightful and if in our homes men
and women discussed with their children
topics and questions of the days, and read
with them occasionally some fine literary
efforts would they seek so much amuse-
ment away from home, or rather would they
love to be there and carry with them into
other homes an atmosphere of refinement
and culture. Conversation as an art we
read about in books we seldom run across
it in life, people are too busy to discuss
questions now, unless they do so publicly
for the money, or the fame it brings, and
very often if in a small party, cards or a
prepared program are not available gossip
takes the place, and that, while entertaining
at the moment often goes too far and causes
unpleasant feelings. If one only knew
just how much to say and kept strictly to
the truth why no objection could be made to
gossip but who is there, who so wise? I
still assert that conversation is a lost art
found occasionally in obscure places.
	LETTER WRITING—With the exception
of some young man on foreign travel or the
youth enjoying his first college year who
writes real letters now-a-days. What would
be the use with the telegraph and the tele-
phone and the type writer one can hear
easily if all is not well with one’s friends
without spending so much time and ink
and paper, writing long letters. And yet
what a delight a nice letter from an absent
friend is, how as one reads parted souls
seem to commune one with another, it is
almost like being with a friend to have him
send a letter. Better some times than con-
versation, for one will write words and
thoughts they fear to tell when face to face;
and oftentimes the heart out pours its ten-
der feelings in flowing language that the
voice would tremble and hesitate to utter.
But it takes too much time to write letters
now and is not necessary so long as one
can hear and know one’s friends state of
health, so that sweet exchange of thoughts
and feeling too is almost done away with.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Since the day when Miriam wrote and
sang in the classic land of the Nile, there
have been women with hearts full of song,
and with souls delicately attuned—silent
poets, perhaps, but oftimes silent only be-
cause the stern tyrant necessity bade them
toil, not sing.
	When women first commenced to write
they did not think of doing so for pay, but
being impelled from some force within,
they thus occupied their spare moments.
There is one writer who says in colonial
times the professional literary woman was
unknown. The verses of Mrs. Anne
Bradstreet, called in flattery the “tenth muse"
were “the fruit but of some few hours
curtailed from sleep and other refreshments."
Mrs. Mary Warren, who left voluminous
records of the Revolution never sought
to gain a livelihood by her pen. She wrote
her tragedies for amusement in the solitary
hours when her friends were abroad.”
	An authority says that ’tis only about a
hundred years since the literary woman

[Column 2]
came to remain with us. But she has played
an important part in the world’s history
since she came, and of no less importance
may be considered her sister the woman
journalist.
	In the beginning of woman’s literary
career, it was not a popular thing for her to
be known as a writer, and she was dubbed
“bluestocking.” As compared with the
pen, the needle was considered the more
fitting emblem of woman’s industry.
	In striking contrast to those days, how-
ever is the present time, when the success-
ful writer, man or woman, is supposed to
reflect credit on his relatives and friends.
	Although one writer says literature is one
avocation that has never closed its floors to
women, there are several great writers of the
earlier time who chose to conceal their
identy by using the nom de plume of a man;
as, George Eliot, George Sand, Gail Hamil-
ton, etc. They did this “because they
wished an unbiased judgment as artists.”
But since then, the world having grown more
liberal with its greater enlightenment, it is no
difficult matter to find critics and editors in
plenty who pass equally fair judgment on
women and on men.
	There are women engaged in journalism
in all parts of the civilized world. Far off
Australia had, at the organization in 1887,
two officers in the International Press Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Augusta Chadz of Melbourne,
Mrs. E. J. Bocock of Queensland and both
vice-presidents of that society. The other
officers were residents of England, and
America, the president, Mrs. Eliza J.
Nicholson being a resident of New Orleans.
	In Saxony Louise Otto edited and pub-
lished for four years a journal which gave
all the news concerning woman’s rights.
Later, she worked in connection with
Auguste Schmidt, in editing a small jour-
nal called New Ways. This was published
by the Universal German Woman’s Union,
an organization designed to provide homes
for poor girls and orphans, and train them
into habits of usefulness.
	In England, some of the women who
have written books are known the world
over. Of the personality of their news-
paper and magazine writers I know but
little, but presume from items I have read, 
that there, as here, there are women en-
gaged in editorial and reportorial work.
	France has produced a number, of bright
literary women. Napoleon said of Madam
De. Stael, “Her arrows would hit a man if
he were seated on a rainbow.”
	When we come to American women in
journalism, there is scarcely a reader of our
newspapers and magazines who cannot call
to mind a host of bright, witty, and wise
pen women. Mrs. Laura C. Holloway,
herself a well-known newspaper woman,
and for years on the editorial staff of the
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, says, “There never
was a time since newspapers were made that
women were not at work upon them.”
	We have account of the widow of James
Franklin of Rhode Island, (he being an
older brother of Benjamin Franklin) who
nearly half a century before the Revolution
continued, after the death of her husband,
the publication of the newspaper formerly
conducted by him. And even when he
had charge of the business, his wife had
been of great assistance to him.
	In 1772 Clementine Reid printed and
edited the Virginia Gazette, and it was the
first paper in the United States to publish
the Declaration of Independence. 
	There were numerous other women of

[Column 3]
colonial times who were engaged in print-
ing and editing newspapers. Mrs. Hol-
loway speaking of them says “Many have
missed historical record; but of the seventy
eight news papers published in the colonies
sixteen were edited by women, and of those
sixteen, fourteen were ardent patriots. So,
as usual, we find, woman on the right side.
	Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale, born in New
Hampshire in 1795, commenced at an early
age to contribute to different magazines.
A little later, and while still a young wo-
man, she took charge of Godey’s Ladies
Magazine, and thus, become the first wo-
man in America to edit a magazine.
	Thirty-five years ago there were but few
women to be found in newspaper offices,
among the first of these being Margaret
Fuller, who was so long associated with
Harace Greeley on the New York Tribune.
Margaret Fuller is said to have possessed
an education of superior excellence, and in
that way to have better equipment than any
who had as yet entered the literary field.
She is exceptional, too, in this fact; she did
not, as did many of her contemporaries, ac-
cording to one critic, “work her passage into
literature by first compiling, a cookery
book.” She worked with high purpose,
and her great cry was for a broader and
more generous culture for girls.
	Fanny Fern (Sarah Peyton Willis) sister
of Nathaniel P. Willis, commenced her
literary career when about forty years of
age. She probably did not realize that she
possessed literary talent, for being left a
widow with two children to support, she
attempted school-teaching. Not succeeding
in that, she wrote a few sketches as a ven-
ture and sent to Robert Bonner, editor of
the New York Lodger, They were pub-
lished, attracted much attention, and were
widely copied. The result was an im-
mediate and lucrative engagement, which
lasted until her death, to write exclusively
for the Ledger. She was educated in the
school of Catharine and Harriet Beecher.
	Grace Greenwood was a popular writer
who contributed to the New York Mirror
and Washington Era. Later she edited a
children's paper, The Little Pilgrim.
	Though now over eighty years of age,
she read a paper at the National Council of
Women in Washington, last February; and
one who heard her says, it was full of wit-
ticisms and kept her audience in constant
good humor.
	Jennie June became so popular as a con-
tributor to some of the leading magazines
and papers, that her name became a house-
hold word. She is bright and witty, and
the originator of a certain style of news-
paper correspondence. She is also the 
founder of Sorosis, an important organiza-
tion and the first of women’s clubs. Of
course, these alliterative names are but the
pseudonyms of the writers.
	There is such an army of gifted pen wo-
men of the past and present time, that
simply to name them, even if one could,
would be a task of magnitude. 
	The pecuniary compensation of good
writers is an item not to be overlooked.
Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal says, “For every man who
makes a good living by the pen there are
almost two women. Mrs. Isabel Mellon
the sprightly “Bab” has an income larger
than the editor of many a big daily.”
	Mary Mapes Dodge gets an income from
her publishers that many a man would be
proud to earn. Lillie Hamilton French
keeps a comfortable flat in New York and


[Column 1]
supports her mother in excellent style, en-
tirely from the proceeds of her pen. And
one may cite many instances of financial
success.
	So we see that women show much busi-
ness as well as literary ability. Mrs. Frank-
lin, so long before the Revolution is only
one of a list of widows who continued the
business of their deceased husbands.
	After the death of the editor of The
Feathered World in England, his widow,
Mrs. Comyns, continued the publication,
and soon raised the circulation from 12,000
to 20,000. In the year 1892 she was the
only woman in the United Kingdom who
was proprietor, editor and manager of a
paper. 
	The most striking instance of the kind in
America is Mrs. Frank Leslie. In 1881
after the death of her husband, she took
charge of his publications. She states that
she had never been in the office six times
before that, and that she found all chaos;
for the entire business was in the hands of
the assignee and a committee of creditors.
She was obliged to face an enormous in-
debtedness and several lawsuits. The
creditors of Mr. Leslie could not afford to
let him fail as he used such large supplies
it would have meant ruin to them. So
they had contracted to give him three years
time and take their pay out of the profits.
A wealthy Brooklyn woman came to the
rescue of Mrs. Leslie. The latter took
charge of the business on the 1st of July
and agreed to pay part of the account on
November 1st: but on the 29th, of October
she paid the entire loan with interest.
	It was the misfortune of President Gar-
field that enabled her to retrieve herself so
quickly. She assumed control of the busi-
ness on Thursday; the President was
wounded on Saturday. She at once dis-
patched'her artists to Washington—all very
young men; because as she said, “Youth is
more enterprising, and will dare to do what
older men will not venture.’’ Great efforts
had to be made on the Sunday and Fourth-
of July holiday on the Monday following,
but they were all successful, and by Mon-
day evening all was ready for the press, the
front pages and double page of the illus-
trated having been entirely changed. As a
result an edition of 300,000 was sold im-
mediately and orders came in so rapidly it
was impossible to fill them.
	Mrs. Leslie immediately took all her il-
lustrations and made a pictorial history of
the sad event, which she called the Garfield
Memorial, and she cleared ten thousand
dollars on that. She designs leaving her
large fortune as a benefaction to women.
	Kate Field is a prominent figure in litera-
ture. For years she contributed to various
magazines in England and America. She
is now editor and proprietor of Kate Field's
Washington a bright and spicy magazine
which is largely quoted from by the news-
papers. It is now in its tenth volume clos-
ing its fifth year, and is published in the
city whose name it bears.
	But one’s eyes need not be forever turned
eastward in scanning the field of literature.
Here in our western country are a
number of journals conducted entirely by
women, and there are women contributors
to most of the prominent papers and
magazines. Prominent among the former,
and first of all to be published in the Rocky
Mountain region is the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. It was started June 1st, 1872,
edited by Miss Lula Greene,  now Lula
Greene Richards. Subsequently it

[Column 2]
passed into the hands of Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, who has ever since continued to
be the editor and publisher. It is the organ
of the Relief Society of the church it
represents and besides devoting itself to
philanthropic, literary, and industrial
societies, it publishes gems in poetry and
prose, original and selected.
	Another Utah paper conducted entirely
by women is the Young Woman's Journal,
of which Susa Young Gates, a daughter of
President Young, is editor. It is designed
to publish the best of the original articles
read before the Young Ladies Improve-
ment Associations, and to foster the literary
ability which without doubt exists in our
fair territory.
	The first paper on the Pacific Cosst to be
published by a woman was The New
Northwest, of Portland, Oregon, with Mrs.
A. J. Dunniway, editor. It was issued in
1871, a year before the EXPONENT.
	The Impress of San Francisco is the or-
gan of the Pacific Coast Woman’s Press
Association, and is edited and contributed
to by members of that society.
	The Golden Dawn; a woman's paper
was published in San Francisco about 1872,
California is proud of her pen women,
and with good reason too.
	I hope ere long to see shining local lights
in literature as a result of the broader cul-
ture and greater leisure which now exist.
And I would like to mention there is a
writer who signs herself “Mab” Ogden, in
writing to the Salt Lake Herald. I have
wished she would exercise her pen more
freely. There is a strain in her writing
which reaches the heart, and I have read
between the lines a desire for the better-
ment of humanity.
	It is woman’s mission to uplift the hu-
man race, and the field of journalism is a
wide one in which to operate. And also a
woman can there find exercise for the
maternal instinct which is so largely a part
of her nature. She may take the world
figuratively, as her child, and train it in
the way it should go, sparing not the rod
of correction, nor the soothing caress, but
all the while pointing to the upward, on-
ward way, saying, "This path shalt thou
tread,"
	Today we have spoken only of the suc-
cessful woman in journalism. But there
have been, alas! as many failures; and even
those who later achieved success, often in
the beginning faced difficulty and defeat.
	The field is overcrowded and one should
not attempt to enter unless she feel that in-
herent call which almost amounts to inspira-
tion. And Longfellow has reminded us

	"The heights by great men reached and kept, 
		Were not attained by sudden flight;
	But they, while their companions slept.
		Were toiling upward in the night.

	Undoubtedly there are many new stars
yet to appear in the galaxy of literature.
But it is well for all to remember the words
of an unknown author,

	“To write some earliest verse or line, 
Which seeking not the praise of art, 
	Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine
		in the untutored heart.

	He who doeth this in verse or prose;
		May be forgotten in a day;
But surely shall at last be crowned with those.
	Who live and speak for aye.”

		LIZZIE STEVENSON WILCOX.

Mrs. Wilcox was selected from the Utah

[Column 3]
Woman’s Press Club to give this subject at
the annual meeting of the Utah Federation
of Clubs in Ogden, May 23, 1895.—Ed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIMARY CONFER-
	ENCE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

	CONFERENCE of the Relief Societies of
the Hawaiian Islands was held April 5,
1895, at head quarters Laie, Oahu, about
250 Saints marched in the usual order to
the meeting house, which had been neatly
festooned with ferns and flowers for the oc-
casion. After the usual opening exercises,
which were rendered promptly and lively,
the Financial and Statistical report for the
year ending Dec, 31st, 1894, was reade
showing 36 branches (eight of which were,
not reported) members 619, meetings held
783. Receipts for the year $672.85. Dis-
bursments to the poor $60.05. To the
Temple $18.25. Missionaries $75.70.
Miscellaneous $168.95. On hand $349.90
	The first speaker was Kapa, the former
president of the first Relief Society organized
upon these islands. She spoke upon the
labors of President George Q. Cannon while
here, and also upon the good accomplished
by the society here during the past twenty
years.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Sisters
Merema Kekuku and Ane Apua, Sister
Ella Birdno read an essay on the subject of
the gathering of Israel and bore her testi-
mony to the sisters.
	Sister Kahuhu one of the native counse-
lors spoke on the subject of prayer, and
Poopuu the President of Kahana Society
spoke of the Bible being the word of God,
refered in particular to the gathering of
Israel, said Zion was the land God had
chosen for His people.
	The Sisters from Honolulu sang a song
composed for the occasion. Sister Alice
Hannon read an essay on the subject of
prayer, also spoke of the power of God
made manifest through prayer in the behalf
of her little boy in his recent sickness, and
praised God for his merciful blessings to-
wards her. A duet by Sister Laura Fisher
and husband accompanied by Elder William
Thompson was much appreciated by all
present. Sister Lizzie Brown gave a sketch-
of the life of Sister Phoebe Woodruff and
encouraged others to emulate her good ex-
ample. Song by Sisters Ruth Kauhine,
Kekuwewa and Kaluapalava.
	These exercises were interspersed by.
verbal reports from the different branches
Instructions were given, by Sister Noall
pertaining to the object of the society and
in the fullfillment of woman's earthly mis-
sion, that of multiplying and replenishing
the earth as God first commanded, spoke of
the rapid decrease of the Hawaiian people,
and of the necessity of taking proper care
of the body, not to copy the evils of
civilization but the good referred to the
evils of the world that were creeping in
among them, coupled with the traditions of
their forefathers
	Resolutions of love and respect expressive
of the appreciation of the labors of Sister
Noall among the Society on the Islands,
was read by Sister Makanoe.
	A free will donation of $6.00 was received
the General and local officers were sustained
and meeting was adjourned for six months.
	Singing, "O my father," benediction by
Makanoe.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday 6th, at 9-30 the little folks as-
sembled at the mission house and formed in
marshall order each bearing a small Ameri-
can flag which was waved by the gentle
sea breeze, the vibrations of which carried to
the Mountain vales the appropriate strains
of “We are marching to Utah.”
	The meeting house was crowded to its ut-
most capacity the little ones numbering
about 150. Looking over the assembly of
children, seated according to their age,
their bright eyes sparkling with delight,
the little girls dressed in white, and all
wearing badges of gay colors, bearing ban-
ners with appropriate sentiments, the
thought naturally suggests itself “Of such
is the kingdom of Heaven” and during the
rendering of an impressive programme,
tears were frequently seen in the eyes of
parents whose children had beep so care-
fully trained by the missionary sisters,
especially was this the case while listening
to songs composed for the occasion expres-
sive of, their love and appreciation of .the
labors of the President.
	The following is a synopsis of the pro-
gramme. Opening hymn "Beautiful Day”
translated in the native language. Prayer
by Iva Kekuku a child of eight years. 
	Singing, “Did you think to pray” in the
native language as the roll was called each
little lisper responded with Biblical senti-
ment. Twelve items of impoliteness pre-
pared in native to suit the wants of the
children were recited in concert. Opening
address by Victoria Nainoa, Primary Ad-
dress by Sam Kii, Song Iva and Hattie
Kekuku, Addresses were given by boys of
about twelve years old on “Sacrament of
the Lord’s supper.” “Life of Christ,”
“Children’ of Israel” &c. Dialogues pre-
pared in native or Gospel subjects were a
special interesting feature to the parents.
Recitation by Tillie Brown, “Guilty or not
guilty,” was creditably rendered.' Song,
“Godspeed the right” led by a little boy,
the children beating time with their small
flags.- Dialogue in native language by Vera
and Nonnie Noall entitled “Zion or the
land of our birth.” Closing address by
Wallace Brown in native language.
	Many other songs, recitations, essays,
speeches were very creditably rendered by
the children, but the original songs rendered
with feelings of love, was not a small feature
of the days exercises. The six months re-
port was read, showing Associations 2,
Officers 16, members 162, boys 72, girls 90,
ncrease 20, meetings held 42, (essays)
Sentiments learned 39, recitations 62,
reading 33, testimonies 66, Bible verses
learned 184, Questions and Answers 81.
Songs 51, Essays 16, Dialogues 34, Stories
40, Manuscript Papers 11, Correspondance
4, music 1, Financial. On hand at date of
last report $6.70 Receipts for six months
$13.20. Disbursed $11.75. On hand $8.15.
	General and local officers were sustained
for the next term. Words of encourage-
ment were given to the children and coun-
sel to the parents in the rearing of their
little ones, impressing upon their minds the
importance of the labor of the Primary
Association, and the necessity of parents
sending their children to these worthy
meetings that they may learn in youth that
which in later years will not depart from
them, thus fitting them for the labors
that will be required of them in the near
future. Meeting was adjourned for six
months by singing “To Day” (in native)

[Column 2]
and prayer was offered by a little girl from
Honolulu.
	E. D. N.


16								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
Sister Minnie A. Cook who departed this
life the 8th of October 1894. Was born at North-
hampton England the 18th of November 1821.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Later-day Saints by Elder Thomas Smith in 1894.
Emigrated to Utah in 1856 in the Ward Cart
Company, she was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward and among the
first to propose a Sunday School in the same
ward where she worked faithfully among the
young people. She also lived in President
Young’s family for some years as a teacher of
music. When she was called home to her
Native country by her parents, both of whom she
busied while there, and then finding the spirit of
the gospel burning in her soul, she again returned
to join where by the help of the Lord, in her
weak way she taught music and needle work to
many young women; always feeling it a duty to
impart of knowledge the Lord had given her to
those whom she met, ever conscious if she was
rewarded in this life, God would reward her ac-
cording to her deeds of love and kindness. And 
when we go beyond this life, may we be as
worthy as she, is the desire of one who has known
her well and always respected her greatly and
loved her dearly even in her old age.
					S. E. M.

	Rizpah Knight Gibbons whose death ocurred
here March 17th, 1895, at St. John’s Arizona, born
March 13, 1890, in Perrysbury Co., State of New
York. She was the daughter of Martha McBride
and Bishop Vinson Knight. Her parents united
with the church soon after its organization and in
1834 moved to Kirtland.
	The deceased was present at the dedication of
the Kirtland Temple, March 27th, 1836. They
afterwards moved to Missouri from whence
they were expelled with the Saints in 1839 locat-
ing at Nauvoo Ill.
	Here she formed the acquaintance of Andrew S.
Gibbons to whom she was afterward married
They were permitted to enter the Temple at
Nauvoo and receive their blessings.
	In 1846 they were again driven from their
homes going westward, she remaining with the
Saints that were scattered along the way between
Nauvoo and Winter Quarters while her husband
went on with President Young’s Pioneer company.
He returned for her in the fall of 1847 and soon
as they could raise means started for Salt Lake
Valley where they arrived in 1852 and located at
Bountiful.
Two years later he was called to the southern
mission and located in Iron Co.
	Four years after her husband (with others) was
called to labor as an Indian missionary. They
were called to Arizona and located in St. Johns,
Feb. 1880. Most of her life was spent on the
frontier, consequently she suffered much privation
and endured many hardships, but remained faith-
ful as did also her husband who preceded her to
the other world nine years ago, and by whose side
she is now laid.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, eight of
whom died in their infancy. When she was still
quite a young woman she was called upon to wait
upon the sick, and was afterwards set apart for
that labor and spent a great deal of her time in
that way during about forty years.
	She with her husband had the privilege of en-
tering into holy places and receiving very great
blessings, and also doing a good work for their
dead. She also attended the dedication of the
Salt Lake Temple. She was followed to her last
resting place by many loving relatives and friends.
				R. E. BERRY, Sec. R. S.

	MARY MORRIS ROBINSON beloved wife of D. A
Robinson, departed this life Feb. 14th, 1895, at
North Morgan. Deceased was the daughter of
Isaac C. Morris and Elizabeth William Morris,
born Oct. 25th, 1855, in Salt Lake City, and was
the mother of ten children; two having preceded
her to the spirit world, a daughter of fourteen 
years of age, and an infant daughter in 1891.
	Sister Robinson at her death left little twin
babes about two hours old, to be reared without
the tender care of a mother.
	She was a loving wife; a devoted mother, a true
friend and a consistent Latterday Saint, the Relief
Society, and the associations of the ward have
lost a faithful co laborer in the death of Sister 
Robinson.

[Column 2]
		RESOLUTIONS OF REPECT.
Whereas the great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in his infinite wisdom removed from
among us—one of our worthy and esteemed Sis-
ters and Co laborers Mary Morris Robinson, and
	Whereas the long and continual relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties,
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her,
	Therefore be it resolved, that the wisdom snd
ability which she has exercised in the aid of our
organization by service, contribution, and counsel
will be held in grateful remembrance,
	Resolved that the sudden removal of such a life
from our midst will leave a vacancy and a
shadow that will be deeply realized by all the
members and will prove a severe loss to the
Society; and with deep sympathy with the be-
reaved relations of the deceased we express our
Hopes that even so great a loss to us all, may be
over-ruled for good, by Him that doeth all things
well.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed in our record book and a copy sent to be
printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and also a
copy be forwarded to the bereaved family.
“At the resurrection morning
		We shall all appear as one
		Oh! What robes of bright adorning,
		Will the righteous then put on.”
ELIZABETH WORLTON, Prest,
				EMMA W. CLARK, Sec.

		A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
	WE the Young Ladies of the West Coalville
Ward offer this as a token of our esteem and ap-
preciation of the labors of our dear President,
Sister Eliza L, Rhead, who departed this life May
26, 1895.
	Though we feel her absence deeply, and miss
her loving counsel, we do not feel to mourn, for
we know that our loss is her gain.
	Her willingness to comply with the commands
of God, has taught us many useful lessons, and
we sincerely trust that by following her counsel
and example, we will be prepared to meet her in
the mansions above, where we can again listen,
to her loving counsel, for we hope that the labors
she commenced on earth will be continued in 
heaven.
	As the labors of her life pass through our minds,
we can but think—Beloved President, thou too
has been—
“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life,
	Faithful as daughter, mother, woman, wife;
	Covered with celestial glory, thou shalt shine
’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
COMMITTEE.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

	Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1895. No. 3.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Gratitude—
E. M. R. Letter To U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.
Mrs. Mary L. Dickinson—Slected. Relief Society
In The Early Days. Ladies Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—Mary E. Irvine. R. S. Reports—Bear Lake
and Wayne Stakes. Woman Supt. of Schools.
Will Allen Dromgoole On Silver. Woman Suf-
frage Column. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Political Science Study. A Trib-
ute of Love. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Woman’s Sphere—Ruby Lamont
Hannah—R. M. F. The Future Conquerer.


WOMAN'S SPHERE.

A SATIRE.

YES brother, she's a woman; see thou to it
That she keep faithfully along the track,
The beaten track of ages; be it narrow,
What doth it matter if it is beaten hard,
And clean and dustless—If she move an inch,
This way or that, then might she serve thee less;
For see, she might look upward to the stars,
And wonder at the greatness of the sky,
Perchance to shrink beneath the load of care,
That makes her field so narrow, wand'ring thus
She might grow dusty with a higher sense,
And thy wants be forgot! Instead of chords,
Of harmony, what harroweth now thine ears,
A harsh, discordant clamor! A shrill cry,
That soon the gates may open to the plan
And let the cushioned prisoner wander free,
To change her fashioned nature for the wild,
Aggressive temper of the wilderness!
Ah, poor, misguided woman! Keep her true!
True to the same old path that all the days,
Her sisters have beat hard and wet with tears,
Lest eyes as grand as thine be dimm'd with dust,
Or crushing whips I scorn might bruise her white-
ness;
True to the mark! Let not her skirts flaunt
round,
And pass the bounds of social creeds and customs;
Let not her curious mind unveil the tomes,
To read the secrets of God's universe;
For He who made them craveth not that she,
Should love or comprehend them to his glory,
Her sweet soft eyes, formed but for love or tears
Must never sparkle to triumphant truth,
Nor have they any need of widened vision,
Keep down the windows lest the sun-light's gold,
The verdant landscape or the gleaming stream,
The soft blue dome above, the flashing worlds
Allure her soul to happy, upward flight,
And she forget her duty, past the mark,
The dust would stain her spirit; she might think,
Without thine aid or guidance; e'en to Heaven
She would aspire without thy stronger hand,
Trusting, the jade! To Christ to lead her on
Safely and soft through labyrinths of time,
Nay this must never be! Thy part to rule
Would be forever slighted; love would die,
A long forgotten art; sweet childhood's smiles
Orphaned of mother love, would soon grow old;
An artist mother would forget the babe
That nestled, trusting, on her cold, hard breast
Then keep her in the good old trusted track
In which the faithful women of all time
Have walked so true before her, why should
change,


Come o’er her spirit? All have gifts alike—
All woman’s gifts; and if she dare to stray
Or long for other fields or wider skies,
Then whip her back with stinging, cruel words.
	RUBY LAMONT.
	(Republished by request.)


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLIV
	Before Clair Hilliard left the colonies for
England he had a long talk with his cousin
Jane in regard to his father, though she
was careful not to reveal anything which
would wound his pride; she was wise and
cautious, as she had always been, to avoid
making others unhappy whatever she her-
self might suffer.
	The colonies were in a perturbed state,
and there were manifest indications of the
indignity towards British rule which sub-
sequently resulted in open war and finally
in the colonies declaring themselves inde-
pendent; the history of the Revolution is
familiar to the American people, and there
is no need to recount instances here, or even
the participation of the characters in this
story in that great struggle, though they
were more or less engaged therein, especially
Rob Harrison who fought valiantly, and
gave liberally of his money as well.
	Clair Hilliard had many regrets in leav-
ing his cousin to whom he was fondly at-
tached, and cried like a child when he bade
the children good-bye. Conway and Ed-
ward both opened their eyes in earnest
when Clair told them he was going to Hil-
liard castle to live alone, and they promised
if only their “mamma” would consent they
would come in a few years when they had
grown bigger and could ride and hunt, for
boy-like they had caught at the stories they
had heard of the sporting seasons in the vi-
cinity of the castle, and which they never
wearied asking about, and repeating over to
each other, and the few playmates with
whom they associated. Besides the Eng-
lish maids, who had come over with them,
told the children of their beautiful England,
until they fancied it must indeed be really a
fairyland. Edward and Anna had been
kept very close with Lady Walton, and
knew even less than Conway, who had en-
joyed greater freedom; but he too was fond
of England in his own quaint fashion,
though he wanted to be loyal to the colonies,
knowing how devoted his mother was to
the wilder scenery of New England.
	Returning across the ocean, Clair had an
eventful voyage and when he arrived he
scarcely knew what to set about, he con-
sulted his solicitors in London, who ad-
vised him to settle down in his own county
and see what prospect there would be for
Parliament, they were ambitious men and
told Clair confidentially who could put him
in possession of the needed information.
“You remember going with young Walton
to Greyson Manor in the hunting season
once and meeting a number of high bred
aristocratics, well, you’re just in time now,
and our advice would be to go and see them.

[Column 2]
Lord Walton is at home and don’t know
how to pass the time, his mother will not
hear of his going on the continent, she is
brooding over her sorrows, broken down
in health, and would possibly consent to
have Maitland go with you; perhaps she
might even be persuaded to go herself,”
“Thank you kindly gentlemen for your ad-
vice, I'll see when I reach home how things
are and talk it over with Maitland and Lady
Walton.”
	Burke replied immediately that "the es-
tate was in good hands, the steward was
prudent and everything going on smoothly,
in fact for the matter of that, the income
was increasing, the outlays almost insig-
nificant.
	After Clair left the barristers’ offices,
Burke and Hemenway talked over the
strange turn things had taken since they
had first entered upon the management of
Sir Edward’s affairs. “Its likely enough,
said Hemenway, he’ll marry one of the
Greyson girls, they’re older, bnt he is more
likely to become attached to a girl whom he
could look up to, and it might be a sensible
match; he’d stop thinking of Italy, and
grow more settled and even ambitious per-
haps, and I should like to see the Hilliard’s
in favor again. I remember hearing a great
deal of Sir Edward’s father, its hard to be-
lieve that such good blood shouldn’t show
up somewhere.”
	“Well, replied Burke, you do recall to
mind the stories I heard when a boy of the
gaiety at Hilliard castle, and to think of
Sir Edward bringing up that beautiful girl
with only French governesses in the house,
why he wasn’t old, not as old as I am by
seven years, well we shall see how this
young fellow will conduct himself, with his
guitar and Italian songs; he’ll make a furore
among the women but ride after the
hounds, never! By Jove, when I remem-
ber how the old Baronet used to jump the
ditches it makes me almost long to leave
London, and go up there and see the fun
again, you know I was born in that district,
and one can’t quite forget the green fields
and out-door sports.”
	“Well, you see Burke I’m a Londoner,
born and bred, and I like all this crowding
and pushing, and living in a whirl of ex-
citement, but I’m interested in the chase,
that is when I read about it in the papers.
I can’t say however, that our young Baro-
net ’ll ever amount to much, only to send
women half crazy, same as his mother did
the men, but we shall see, Walton ’ll do him
no good, he’s run through half his own
money and more, and would his wife’s too
if we hadn’t been after him pretty sharp."
	“Yes, I know, but Clair must have some-
body and where is he to look for society;
Rob Harrison has probably stuffed him
pretty well with ridiculous notions and then
sends him afloat without anybody to look
after him, he’ll be easy influenced, far too
easy I imagine.”
	This and much more the two men talked
over together, and in their own minds
they saw the picture of both Clair and Mait-
land. But “man proposes and God dis-
poses,” and though some things are plain


[Column 1]
to lawyer's minds, they cannot always see
what young men and women will do whose
money they are handling, anymore than
other people.
	Lady Walton was delighted to see Clair,
he came unexpected and unannounced, and
she became quite herself again while he re-
mained, and urged him to spend as much
time as possible at Walton Hall. Maitland
and Clair had always been very good
friends, and it was not long after Clair
reached home before an invitation came
from the Greyson's inviting him for the sea-
son without any solicitation on his part.
Maitland and his mother also received one
about the same time, and the three were
soon installed at Greyson Hall. It was
was one of the most charming localities in
all the rural districts of—Shire and both
the young men gave themselves up to the
pleasures and amusements provided for the
entertainment of the many guests with
which the house was filled; Maitland and Clair
were neither of them very good sportsmen,
Maitland to be sure rode well, but he was
restless and his mother worried him with
her anxiety. The Greyson girls were charm-
ing and exerted themselves to please, they
had been much on the continent, and were
familiar with places and scenes of interest,
and it was but a few days until Clair was
over head and ears in love with the eldest
of the two, and then he began to wonder
what his cousin would think, and indeed
whether the girl would return his affection.
He knew things were in commotion in
America, and so he did not write, but
talked with Lady Walton, who encouraged
him to speak to Mr. Greyson at once. The
mother was dead and a maiden aunt, the
mother's sister was the only lady of the
Manor, except the girls who had almost de-
cided to live in single blessedness, thinking
their time had gone by, though they were
scarcely spinsters yet.
	Lady Walton was much improved and
had been watching these young people and
wishing Maitland would woo and win the
other and younger sister, or some one of the
sweet and attractive girls who came to visit,
or attended the parties they were giving
every few days; she had not long to wait
for almost immediately after Clair's affair
was settled, Maitland confided to his mother
that he had already asked Laura Greyson
to be his wife, that she had consented, that
the children were to be brought home, and
that she would take care of his morals here-
after; all of which Lady Walton accepted,
though it was not a brilliant match, such
as she had once anticipated when he was a
fine boy just fresh from college. There
had been many changes since then and seri-
ous troubles had effected her very materially.
	She had in reality taken somewhat to liter-
ary pursuits, and written some articles and
verses quite pathetic and though she had
only shown them to one or two writers
she had been quite gratified with the favor-
able criticisms of her literary friends. She
had another reason for wishing to leave
Greyson Manor, which she felt now she
could do with due propriety, on the pretext
of making things ready for the future mis-
tress of Walton Hall. Sir Thomas Lons-
dall had come late in the season, and he
knew too much for her sensitive nature, he
was very outspoken aud had once or twice
alluded to her affairs in a way that set her
heart beating, for even now she could not
bear to hear Sir Edward's marriages alluded
to, and still cherished in her heart of hearts,

[Column 2]
a tenderness for her first lover, and she
knew from his own lips on that night of
nights, of which no one living now knew
except Jane (and who had she felt sure
never betrayed the secret) that in reality Sir
Edward had loved her truly, though his
jealousy and hatred knew no bounds; but
he had forgiven her then and indeed found
that she too had been deceived, and that
both lives had been made unhappy, though
she had been a true and faithful wife, over
fond of admiration, a belle in society, while
he had lived wretchedly, at first under des-
perate excitement, afterwards something of
a recluse, shunning all those around him.
	Lady Walton advised Clair to go home as
she feared for him, knowing how he dreaded
any allusion to his mother, and with womanly
intuition she knew Sir Thomas would break
out some day, when he had imbibed too
freely of the wine at dinner which he was
much in the habit of doing. With all her
caution the crisis came. She was ready to
depart, had everything packed when Sir
Thomas in a passion, brought about because
of a joke perpetrated by Clair, called him a
gipsy, whereupon Maitland resenting it,
was told his mother had gone over to Italy
and married a vagabond Count no better
than a gipsy. Mr. Greyson tried to silence
Sir Thomas in vain, the young men left
the dining hall, and almost without cere-
mony bidding hurried adieux to the young
ladies were soon on the way to Walton Hall.
Mr. Greyson was obliged to explain to his
daughters and apologize for Sir Thomas,
whom he promised himself never to invite
again. Miss Fulton, the sister-in-law de-
clared Sir Thomas had been in love with
the Italian singer himself, and never could
forgive Sir Edward for marrying her.
	It was a dismal winding up of a brilliant
season, but the girls had much to think of
in view of the double wedding which was
soon to take place, and before many days all
the guests had taken their departure, and
the wedding trousseaux were in progress.
The arrangements were elaborate and in
the best style of the day and time, and at
Christmas the marriages were to be solom-
ized. Lady Walton had decided not to be
present but as neither the girls nor Clair
had a mother she was finally prevailed
upon to come. There had never been such
a wedding in the neighborhood, the music
and feasting and merry making continued
through the holidays, and in all the coun-
try side both rich and poor were remem-
bered. The Greysons were great favorites
and a double wedding was a novelty.
Lady Walton who was still very beautiful,
notwithstanding all she had endured, and
who always dressed with the most exquisite
taste, was as charming as the young brides,
her stately manner and thorough-bred style
created quite a sensation and she was as
much talked of afterwards as the brides
themselves.
	Meantime the war had begun in earnest
across the water and more than one battle
had been fought; the English were sure of
victory, although Clair had many doubts
and some fears, he longed to know more
than the rumors that were afloat. Maitland
dreaded and feared because of his children,
but he knew cousin Jane would protect
them with her own life if she could; he
had opportunities now and then to send
messages but never knew whether they
were delivered (and of course they were
not.) It was late the following summer
when he started for the colonies to bring

[Column 3]
home his children and he found much dif-
ficulty in reaching his friends though he
carried letters from the officers in command.
He was an English gentleman which was
apparent in his bearing, but nevertheless
he was suspected of being a spy. At last
he succeeded and found all well and ascer-
tained that neither Mr. Harrison or Sydney
Barrington had ever heard of the marriages.
Jane knew the Greyson's and was pleased
to hear the news. She felt Clair would be
better with a wife like Miss Greyson, and
the children she loved so much would have
a capable and affectionate mother. Lady
Walton had always been cold and selfish,
and so absorbed in her own griefs, she had
no room for little children in her heart.
Maitland only remained long enough to
make the needful preparations and Jane
Harrison with a heavy heart bade the chil-
dren good-bye, not knowing what might
transpire before they should meet again.
But she was brave beyond all expectation.


WOMANS EXPONENT


GRATITUDE.

	GRATITUDE is the warm and friendly
feeling that prompts the heart, the soul,
and the mind to benefit the benefactor.
	In the strife for fame, and the hustle and
bustle of this busy-world too often do we
nurse recollections of our own fancied
wrongs,and too often do we forget the kind-
nesses on us bestowed.
	Gratitude, the feeling which inspires
the heart with kindly desires to thrice re-
pay a want administered, or a favor confer-
red, is the grandest feeling that fills the
noble heart, and from it springs the golden
seeds of friendship, that subtle-tie that binds
true hearts together. The feeling of grati-
tude when you have been helped,or favored,
will lighten your heart, and brighten your
smiles; so do not falter when you know
what comfort to yourself and your friends
you will impart.
	We as God’s noble children can show
our gratitude to him for all his mercies and
kindness, by living a humble and contrite
life, and doing all the good we can. If we
desire to do good we must begin on the first
step, that is if we wish to do much good in
this world we must be willing to do good in
little things, in little acts of benovelence
one after another; speaking a timely and
good word here, doing an act of kindness
there, and setting a good example always.
We must do the first good thing we can,
and then the next. This is the only way to
accomplish much in one’s life time, and it
is one of the many ways we can show onr
gratitude to God.
In each act of gratitude, nobleness lies;
	The benefactor is repaid with willing grace, 
The act is always grand and never dies,
	But will brighten the true friends face.
	E. M. R.


MRS. ESTHER MORRIS of Wyoming was
one of ten delegates at large elected from
that State to the National Convention of
Republican League Clubs at Cleveland.
Colorado elected four women as delegates,
and New York one.
	MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
who has been so ill that her death semed
inevitable, is recovering. Her family and
friends are hopeful, and she will soon be
brought from Washington, D. C., to the
cooler air of Maine.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HANNAH.

	CLASP the hands gently,
		With tenderest care,
	Smooth back the tresses,
		Lay a flower there,
	Tread, O, so softly
		Disturb not her rest;
	Sleeping so sweetly,
		Ah! Is she not blest?
	Break not the silence,
		Hush! Do not weep,
	Angels are near her
		Bright vigils to keep;
	Angels of gladness
		To bear her away;
	Angels of comfort
		With loved ones to stay.
	Hark! I hear music,
		Faint ’tis but clear;
	Yes they are singing
		In sweet tones I hear,
	Fair lovely sister
		O, come, come away;
	Where pain and sorrow
		Are banished for aye.
	Come where love’s breezes .
		Forget not to blow;
	Where streams of kindness,
		Continually flow,
	The joys of thy home
		Thon can’st not divine
	Glory and honor
		Forever are thine.
	R.M.F


To The Woman's Exponent:
THE FUTURE CONQUERER.

(To the Children of the Latter-day Saints.)

HEAR the soft patter of little feet,
	Keeping their step in the march of time;
List to the voice of childhood sweet
	Singing the song of our cause sublime;
Steady each footfall, though light and free,
	Faltering not as they onward press,
Cheering the strains of the melody,
	Telling of peace and righteousness.
Gaze with a vision divinely lent,
	Promise of good in the future trace;
These shall arise when our day is spent,
	Women and men of a nobler race,
All we have missed is their heritage,
	All we have failed of is their’s to win;
Their’s, the new era, the golden age,
	Their’s, is the conquest of wrong and sin.
We will not envy their brighter day,
	So that to them time victory brings;
For not ignoble the part we play,
	We are kingmakers, if they are kings.
Smooth then the way for the little feet,
	Teach the right note to each fresh young voice
Throw wide the portals, their coming greet,
	And in their triumph will they rejoice,
	Edited by L. A. C. PENNIMAN.
Milwaukee, Wis., May 5,1895.


[Column 1]
	LETTER TO U.W.P.C.

	Here I am in the wonderful Snake River
Valley with the famous Teton Peaks tower-
ing in the eastern sky white with their
everlasting mantle of snow.
	As I pause in my busy rounds to think
where I am and locate times immutable dial,
I find the month is waning and the date
of our regular meeting is near at hand.
	Inclination, born of an ardent desire,

[Column 2]
bids me hasten home that I may participate
in the pleasures and the benefits of my
favorite club, but duty that relentless mas-
ter calls me elsewhere. I will not take the
time to dwell upon the subject of duty for
our little band is composed of those faithful
ones who learned this lesson long, long ago.
	Since leaving Salt Lake one month ago,
I have visited twenty-seven towns holding
three meetings in each. I have traveled two
hundred and fifty miles by train and nearly
five hundred by team, over hills and dales,
through canyons and mountain gorges,
over the sage brush plains and lava beds,
along shady glens and fragrant meadows;
sometimes the road winding for miles along
the cool, romantic banks of the river fringed
with willows and interspersed with beautiful
wild flowers, and the sweet wild roses that
to my senses are always so inspiring.
Little dainty wild rose with perfume so sweet;
Reminder of youth, and its joys so complete.
When in the green pastures, and cool canyon glens
I plucked thee at random from briary stems.
How I loved to inhale thy fragrance so rare,
And deemed of all flowers, thou the sweetest,
	most fair.
	Though the trip has been attended with
some hardships, the beautiful flowers and
the sweet songs of birds, which can be seen
in great numbers and variety, together with
the sweet companionship of my little Nellie,
has greatly lightened the burden, and
smoothed the rough places. Though in
the language of my little traveling com-
panion, “I never saw so many bumby ups,
mudly pudly’s and tee totters” as in the last
few weeks travel. We have many, ditches,
creeks and canals to ford, sometimes the
water coming into the wagon bed. It being
a new country the bridges are not yet all
constructed though the most dangerous
parts of the Snake River are spanned by im-
mense bridges characteristic of the energy
and enterprise of an industrious, persevering
people.
	This is an extensive valley covering a
vast area of ground. Its water resources
are uncomparable and there is every facility
necessary for becoming a great farming and
agricultural district, and with the brawn
and muscle of the sturdy Mormon pioneers,
who first had faith in its possibilities, there
is no question but their fondest anticipations
will be more than realized. Many of the
little towns are situated along the picturesque
banks of the Snake River, and give great
promise of becoming prosperous business
centers.
	We cannot as yet speak much in praise
of the climate as the seasons are late and
the warm weather cloes not set in until near
the first of July. The wind blows nearly
every day, but how could we expect other-
wise with the vast sweep of land in this
great valley, when the little towns and ham-
lets become large cities with towers and
spires reaching heavenward, and the plains
covered with extensive orchards, then we
may expect a change in climate as we have
found in our own loved Utah.
	I trust all will go smoothly with the club,
and that you will have a most profitable
time at your next meeting and if the last
program is promptly filled, I am convinced
it will be most interesting. I hope the
“committee of the whole” will do their
duty as well for the July meeting—a little
selfishness perhaps—for if all is well, I shall
be there. Praying our Father’s choicest
blessings upon you all, I am your fellow-
worker. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
WILFORD, FREMONT CO., Idaho, June 26, 95


MRS. MARY L. DICKINSON.
 
	MARY LOWE DICKINSON, the newly-
elected president of the National Council of
of Women of the United States, was born
and educated in New England; she became
a teacher when very young. The experi-
ment of teaching, while most successful,
in so far as the puplis were concerned, only
served to convince the teacher of the
inadequacy of her own preparation for her
chosen field. At the age of 24 she spent
three years in extensive travel and close
study abroad. Returning, the teacher’s life
was resumed until her marriage to John Be
Dickinson, a wealthy banker of New York.
City, changed the life to one of even wider
opportunities for social and philanthropic
work.
	Indentified with the best phases of social,
religious and philanthropic life, she en-
tered actively into many lines of charitable
work.
	Three more years of travel abroad afford-
ed opportunities for study of European sys-
tems of education, and for the acquisition 
of varied culture. The death of her hus-
band, followed in a few years by the loss of
fortune, threw her back again into the
ranks of working women. She resumed
teaching and writing.
	Her first novel, “Among the Thorns,”
proved her skill in the delineation of char-
acter and such powers as established, be-
yond question, the fact of her possessing
the story teller’s gift, while its dealing with
the problem of poverty and pauperism
showed strongly the bent of her mind.
The second book, printed first in England,
and afterwards reprinted in America, called
“The Amber Star,” dealt with fresh air
funds and country homes for children and
working women, before the subject had
ever been discussed or agitated in America.
Her third story, “A Fair Half Dozen,” al-
so first printed in England, dealt with the
problem of invalidism, taking up all the
points afterward covered by the Shut in
Society, before a thought of such a society
had ever crept up to the light. A little
volume of poems called “Edelweiss” was
her earliest book. Some of her stories, in
which she particularly excelled, have been
gathered together in a volume called “Drift
Wood” and “One Little Life,” her latest
story, is illustrative of her own idea of what
should be the true character of the Order 
of the King’s Daughters and Sons, in which 
society, from its birth, she has been the gen-
eral secretary, and actively engaged in the
charge of its work all over the world.
	Warmly interested in the cause of tem-
perance, she served for several years as the
joint editor of the “American Reformer.”
When the Order of the King’s Daughters
and Sons grew to such proportions as to re-
quire an organ of its own she established
its magazine, the “Silver Cross,” of which
she has been the only editor. She was of-
fered positions in several leading institutions
of learning, one of which she accepted the
post of professor of literature at the Uni-
versity of Denver, and at the close of her
service there was made emeritus professor
and given also a lectureship in English,
the chair of belles-lettres, which was liber-
ally endowed and named by the Board of
Trustees the Mary Lowe Dickinson chair.
	SELECTED.


EMPRESS EUGENIE has nearly comple-
ted her memoirs. They are not to be pub-
lished till after her death.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		 -		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter.
 			SALT LAKE CITY, July 1, 1895.


POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	THE Department of Study in Political
Science has prepared the plan of work so
much talked of heretofore and will fill orders
for the local associations or clubs who wish
to take up the study.
	AIM OF THE DEPARTMENT.
‘‘The object of this department is to pro-
vide a systematic Course of self-instruction
in the principles and facts which underlie
the great Political Questions of our day *  *
A knowledge of history has long been es-
teemed a necessary part of education but a
calm, serious study of politics, the science
which includes the events and conditions
surrounding our every day life is far more
rare.”
	This and a great deal more the Prospectus
sets forth, aud it is with the idea of educa-
ting the women of the country in Political
Science that this plan of work has been pre-
pared.
	DUES.
	Study classes that are formed will be ex-
pected to pay the same State and National
dues as regular suffrage associations, that
is the amount must be enough to retain in
the State Treasury and ten cents to the Na-
tional treasury. This sum is used to
carry on the general work.
	METHODS OF STUDY. 
	The methods should include in the
subjects. General Political News, Con-
gressional News, Legislative News, State
Judicial News, Local Affairs, Social Prob-
lems, The Tariff, Financial News, Labor
News, Foreign News.
	The following topics are suggested for
public meetings. The Duty of the Citizen,
Ideal Municipal Government, The Town
meeting, Initiative and Referendum, Pro-
portional Representation, Universal Suffrage,
Woman Suffrage, how can Patriotism be
taught in the Public Schools.
	‘‘This course of study is prepared as nearly
as possible to meet the demands of all
classes of persons, busy housewives and
women who can only command scattered
moments for reading, women too who have
leisure, college graduates and those whose
ambition is broader, it has been planned to
meet all these differing conditions as nearly
as possible."
	The design of the N.A.W.S.A. is to
make this course of study entirely non-
partisan and all text books will be selected
with reference to maintaining such impar-
tiality.


As President of the Utah W. S. A., we
recommend this course of study to the or-
ganizations in all the various localities, and
believe it will be the most educational in
political matters of any method which has
ever yet been adopted.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	An ovation was accorded to Sister Mary
A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. N. M.
I. A., of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion on
the evening of Tuesday, June 18. It is
useless to attempt a description of the floral
decorations but they were beautiful as a
summer dream, yet not so charming as the
young girls and women themselves, attired
in white, or in colors, they rose one after
another to give expression in sentiments of
love, appreciation and admiration to the one
in whose honor they had assembled. As
for Sister Freeze herself, she was literally
buried in flowers, each one of the Presidents
of the branches of the Association in this
stake, throwing her a bouquet of roses im-
mediately after she was seated; entirely un-
conscious of the nature of the gathering it
was a wonder she bore all this adulation
without breaking down. Sisters Nellie C.
Taylor and Maggie C. Shipp conducted the
the exercises in the most graceful and dig-
nified manner, and to them doubtless as-
sisted by willing helpers of the Associa-
tion the success of the entertainment is due.
	The First Presidency was represented by
President Jos. F. Smith, the Apostles by
President Lorenzo Snow, F. M. Lyman
and Abraham H. Cannon, the Presidency of
this Stake by Counselors Jos. E. Taylor
and C. W. Penrose. The Relief Society by
Zina D. H Young and Bathsheba W.
Smith and others, the general officers of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. by Elmina S. Taylor
and her Counselors Maria Y. Dougall,
Marth H. Tingey.
	The hall was crowded with friends of
Sister Freeze and members of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A. the occasion was one of great
interest and appreciation of the labors of
the Association in this Stake of Zion. The
hymns that were sung were composed by
Sister Mary A. Freeze, and Sister Carrie S.
Thomas; one of the particular features of
the occasion was the presentation of a testi-
monial from the young ladies of the County
Associations of a large picture, handsomely
framed of President Mary A Freeze and
her Counselors and Aids, which must have
been very acceptable as they are the helps
who assist in the progress of the work
spiritual, mental and moral which is being
done for the youth of Zion. Sister Mary
P. Young one of the Counselors presented
the picture in a fitting and eloquent address,
and Sister Freeze responded in the most
happy and grateful manner.
	The first speaker of the evening was Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who in the course of
his remarks waxed eloquent and incisive
on the subject of equal suffrage, and illus-
trated his views by the story of his own
mother, who when a widow with a large
family dependent upon her, journeyed from
Nauvoo, (after the martyrdom of her hus-
band) under the most difficult circumstances
and when the call came to start to the val-
ley, left Winter Quarters in 1847 following
the pioneers, attending to her own teams
and wagons, looking after the entire outfit,
and accomplishing what very few men

[Column 2]
could have done; established herself here in
the desert, built her own house, and superin-
tended all the details of farming and caring
for stock, etc., in a new country where all was
very laborious, and many difficulties and
hardships to be encountered. He made
many excellent points for suffrage and it is
hard to believe that one could listen to so
vivid a picture without being convinced of
woman’s capabilities for citizenship.
	President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and Abraham H. Cannon, Elder B.
H. Roberts, Zina D. H. Young and Elmina
S. Taylor each occupied a few minutes ex-
pressing love and admiration for Sister
Freeze and appreciation of her labors among
the young people.
	Delicious refreshments were served and
social conversation indulged in, greetings,
congratulations and hand-shakings all
around and the entertainment was closed
with singing and a benediction pronounced
by Bishop Robert Morris of the 11th Ward
where Sister Freeze resides. Altogether
the entertainment must have been very sat-
isfactory to Sister Freeze, and great credit
is due those who had the arrangement of
the entire affair in their hands.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	BRO. Joseph Horne and wife left the
city June 17th to visit their daughter, Mrs.
Spencer, in Paris, Idaho, and to attend
the wedding reception of a grand-daughter
who was recently married. They expected
to be absent two or three weeks.
	Mesdames Mary Hillom Higgs, Salt
Lake City, Annie P. Tillotson, Ogden,
Lucinda M. Patten, Payson, Utah Co.,
Marion M. Hand, Benjamin. Students
from the class of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp,
have just today passed the Territorial Med-
ical Board.
	WE want to call the attention of our
readers to the study of Political Science pre-
pared for women by a special committee,
which it is expected will help to prepare the
women of the country to vote intelligently
when the opportunity arrives, as it assuredly
will in the near future.
	SISTERS Zina D.H. Young and the writer
attended the conference of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake on the 11th of June and
had a most enjoyable time. The following
day, 12th, was the conference of the Y. L.
N. M. I A. Sister Minnie J. Snow came
up from the city to attend it, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young remained to take part in
the conference. Sister Zina D. H. Young
and sister E. S. Taylor attended the con-
ferences of the Relief Society and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Ephriam
on the 28th and 29th of June and had an
excellent time.
	SONYA KOVALERSKY is the title of a
book translated from the Russian and
Swedish, the Russian translation by Isabel
F. Hapgood, the Swedish by A. M. Clive
Bagley, published by the Century Co., New
York. The book is a very remarkable one
in many ways, quite out of the ordinary
and giving the reader a good idea of wo-
man’s real condition in Russia.
The biography and memories of Sonya
Kovalersky show her as a very superior
and highly gifted woman, brilliant in math-
ematics and abstruse sciences, prophetic and
inspirational in a very great degree, acutely


sensitive on all subjects, yet the book sets
forth plainly that quality of love in wo-
man which can never be satisfied without
the devotion of an ardent lover; fame, honor,
intellect, all these she had in their com-
pleteness, “a marvel of mental develop-
ment and beautiful womanhood, a kind of
giantess of such extraordinary proportions
that you regard her with wonder arid admi-
ration.” Certainly both in Russia and
Sweden, Sonya Kovalersky was one of the
most gifted women of this century.
	MEMORIAL DAY in remembrance of the
poet and author, Sister Hannah T. King
was kept this year June 19th, at the beauti-
ful home of Sister Julia C. Howe, who was
one of Sister King’s dearest friends. About
fourteen ladies were present. The roses
and other sweet blossoms, in themselves
were a touching tribute to her memory.
Sister Howe had prepared little mementoes
on cards from the author’s “Songs of the
Heart” most of them from the poem en-
titled “Life,” these were very appropriate
having been selected for each one with
great care, and were in the hand writing
of the hostess. The conversation was gen-
eral, and the “five o’clock tea” at which
most of the ladies drank hot water, was
very enjoyable, not only for the delicious
and appetizing delicacies, but for the spirit
of love and good-will, which made all feel
happy and buoyant for the time. After
leaving the dining room, Sister Alder read
the verses which were commented upon,and
by request the writer read a personal poem
of Sister King’s addressed to Helen Mar
Whitney, which has never appeared in
print. Sweet interchanges of thought and
feeling followed, and at the close the com-
pany sang Doxology and benediction waspro-
nounced. The next gathering in honor of
the dear departed Sister King will be at the
residence of her daughter Sister Louisa
Spencer in June 1896—if all is well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE EARLY
			DAYS.

	THE Fourteenth Ward Female Relief,
Society, organized by Bishop Hoagland
(agreeable to the request of President
Brigham Young) on the seventeenth day of
September 1856, with a President and two
counselors, a secretary and treasurer: with
power to elect other such officers as might
be needed, for the carrying out and manage-
ment of said society.
	We therefore deemed it necessary to elect
a visiting committee of nine persons, one
to each block to collect subscriptions and
enquire into the circumstances and ne-
cessities of the poor and report the same to
the President of the Society.
	We have also an Appraiser Committee of
three persons. Together with a superin-
tendence of work Committee of three per-
sons, likewise.
	Our meetings are opened and closed by
singing and prayer, and occasionally with
remarks by Bishop Hoagland, and other
brethren of the Priesthood, who may oc-
casionally call in. Also by the President of
the Society.
	Members are received or expelled by vote
according to our rules and By Laws.
			P. W. WOODRUFF, Prest.
	Phebe Woodruff, President; Mary I.
Horne and Lucinda Southworth,Counselors;
Kezia D. Pratt, Secretary; Agnes Hoag-

[Column 2]
land Treasurer; afterwards P. W. Wood-
ruff Treasurer.
	Visiting Commitee: Lavinia Taylor,
Grace Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H.
Richards, Elizabeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, N. A. Stevenson, L. Southworth,
Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraiser Committee: Phebe Woodruff,
Mary I. Horne, Lucinda Southworth.
	Superintendence of Work Committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Foss, Agnes
Hoagland.

		NAMES OF MEMBERS.
	Phebe Woodruff, Mary I. Horne, Lu-
cinda Southworth, Kezia D. Pratt, Agnes
Hoagland, Leonora Taylor, Sarah M. Pratt,
Emma Standish, Elizabeth Pixton, Sarah
B. Phelps, N. A. Stevenson, Ann Long-
stroff, Anetta A. Cummings, Lydia Sharp,
Elizabeth K. Stevenson, Rhoda H. Rich-
ards, Fanny Spilsbury, Susan Richards,
Sophia Taylor, Esther Ann Hoagland,
Jane Taylor, Mary Oakey, Matilda Wards-
worth, Sarah Brown, Ann Jackson, Rachel
Middleton, Elizabeth Pratt, Sarah B. Foss,
Susan Cornelia Woodruff, Phebe Amelia
Woodruff, Mary C. Stephen, Susan Pratt,
Belinda Pratt, Elizabeth T. Blair, Sarah
Church, Mary Ann Taylor, Agnes Taylor,
Sarah Lishman, Mary Ann Brown, Ann
Clewly, Elizabeth Johnson, Emily Shelton,
Hannah C. Mumford, Lucy L. Van Cott,
Mary Ann Taysom, Rebecca Hoagland,
Hannah Bird, Texana Blair, Sarah Jane
Blair, Sarah S. Turpin, Maria L. Twin-
ball, Lovina Taylor, Elizabeth Thompson,
Jane C. Romney, Elizabeth M. Romney,
Mary Hall, Sophronia Turnball, Harriet
Carter, Margaret Hoagland, Isabel
Lamoreaux, Annetta Rhodes, Mary Rhodes,
Susanna Richards, Sarah Ann Heyes, Ann
Agatha Pratt, Mary Campbell, Susan S.
Richards, Charlotte F. Richards, Clarissa
Snyder, Jesse S. Eddings, Hannah B. Mor-
ley, Mary Richards. Alice Watt, Mary S.
Snow, Sarah Woodruff, Emma Woodruff,
Sarah Morris, Jane Watt, Elizabeth Foss,
Olivia C. Foss, Deborah Ann Twinbull,
Jane C. Richardson, Celestia L. Pratt,
Sarah Richards, Nannie Richards, Caroline
Simms, Mary C. Taylor, Elizabeth Rich,
Jane Taylor, Helen Carter, Alice Thomp-
son, Georgian A. Clements, Martha Robins,
S.G. Richards, S. S. Richards, Martha
T. Blair, Phebe Pratt, Martha T. Darger,
Sarah Ivins, Sarah Ann Ballo, Jane E.
Richards, Jane Jennings, Helen Winder,
Helen Kay, Wilmirth East, Annie Latimer,
Mary Perrin, Ellen C. Blair, Martha Price,
L. Van Cott, Mary Ann Hooper, Cather-
ine Mulliner, Adelaide Smith, Betsy Stan-
dish, Maria Riley, M. A. Foster, M. Rhodes,
Victoria Blair, Sarah Ann Remmington,
Fanny Snalam, Rhoda Richards, Grace
Richardson, Mary Jane Merrill, Kate Gard-
ener, M. E. France, Margaret Hill, Har-
riet Phelps, Mary W. Pratt.

			BY LAWS.
	1.—The name of the society shall be
called the Fourteenth Ward Female Relief
Society.
	2.—It shall be controlled by a president
and two counselors, a secretary and treas-
urer, chosen by the members who shall
choose such officers as may be deemed
necessary.
	3.—The object shall be the relief of the
destitute—unemployed, and all whom it
may have power to relieve or do good unto,
in unison, with the councils of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

[Column 3]
	4.—Those wishing to become members
may be admitted on the recommend of any
member. by a vote of any meeting regular-
ly called.
	5.—Members will be expelled from the 
society for unchristianlike conduct, by a
majority of votes of any regularly organiz-
ed meeting.
	6.—These, by laws, may be increased,
amended, annulled, or added to at any time
considered necessary by a majority of the
members.

			FIRST REPORT.
	Fourteenth Ward Female Relief Society, 
organized on the 17th day of September,
1856. Commenced and carried on our
operations in a time of scarcity and under 
trying circumstances until, the 28th day of
March, 1858, about one year and six months,
during which time we received from mem-
bers of the society in the form of contribu-
tions of money, wearing apparel, Provisions,
etc, amounting to. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $346.05
Quilts on hand and for Sale, . . . . . . . .100.00
Overplus for work and Propt. . . . . . . 101.12 
							    547.17

By paid out to poor in the Ward, . .$213.77
By paid to our brethren of the army. .43.75
By donated to H. C. Company, . . . . . .63.65
By donated to P. E. Fund, . . . . . . . . .126.00
By donated quilts to a Temple, . . . . .100.00
							   547.17

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
 
	MINUTES of meeting held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, May 14th, President
M.I. Horne presiding. Sang “O my
Father.” Prayer Sister L. D. Alder
Sang, ‘‘We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Minutes read and approved.
President Horne explained the reason we
could not have the 14th, Ward it was
being remodeled; was not feeling well
thought it was climbing the stairs at the
County Building, to hear Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw, she was pleased with them
thought many would not go to sleep under
Miss Shaw’s preaching, they have suffered
for their cause but it is popular now, refered
to the man who voted ‘‘no” on Tuesday
evening, was like Miss Anthony thought
he needed praying for. Wondered how
many really thanked God for a prophet as
we had been singing, all who have lived in
Joseph’s day should testify as long as they
are here, we should be thankful for the
Gospel. The plan of salvation will reach
all, and the baptism for the dead,is not that
a most glorious principle? What mighty,
order and love in the Gospel, when we are
living our religion. How Joseph would re-
joice when he could come out and see those
he loved. Forty-five lawsuits were
brought against him, yet there was nothing
proved against him, he was waited upon by
angels and was upheld by the power of
God. He lived to receive all the keys and
blessing, necessary for the carrying on of
this work; he had to shed his blood for
the cause; when we see the famine and dif-
ferent things that are taking place we should
study what these things mean, look to our 
selves that we are on the straight and nar-
row way, we will need a good shaking to
put us in our places, if we turn aside or go
contrary to the teachings we have received.


[Column 1]
Make the Lord your friend, and He will
never leave or forsake you; live your re-
ligion. A sister whose name was not taken
felt good to be with us, had enjoyed the con-
vention that had just been held, testified to
Joseph being a prophet. Minutes of 18th,
Ward Primary read. A Poem, dedicated
to President G. Q Cannon, was read by a
sister, who stated she had the poem for sale
at ten cents a copy. A sister in the con-
gregation testified to her knowledge that
Joseph was a Prophet, related different in-
stances in his life. 
	Sister Alder was thankful to be here
had been deprived from meeting through
sickness, had enjoyed the late Convention,
the ladies had done a great work in their
lives; but we are doing a great work and we
have a knowledge that our work is a
strength to us, wanted to see a great work
done in the future.
	The visiting ladies asked many peculiar
questions, said that she was surprised to
hear about it, at this late day that they
should believe such things, they did not
seem to see beauties in Bishop Whitney’s
speech; it seems strange that so many that
come among us are blinded to what is tak-
ing place right around them. Women are
coming to the front as they have always
done before the downfall of a nation, we
want to do everything so fast that we can-
not take time to attend to our duties every
day. Is time being shortened or do we
imagine it? We all have to drink deep of
sorrow and in this way the Lord will make
us what He wants us, related how Moses
was taken to the courts of Egypt, and then
bad to be taken to the wilderness: are we
using our influence for good every day of
our lives? Do not be led away by the fol-
lies of the world, it comes in many forms,
and we need to watch and pray continually
that we do right. A sister rejoiced that
she ever heard the Gospel and wanted to
live her religion, had enjoyed the Suffrage
Convention. Another sister had a testi-
mony that this is the work of God, was
thankful that she lived in this day, had
heard the visiting ladies, thought they were
bright and intelligent women.
	Sister Gibson was pleased to hear the
sisters testify. In 1840 Joseph Smith went
to attend a conference and she heard him
there, was convinced that day, had asked her
father’s consent to be baptized, he consented
and she went joyfully forward, when she
saw the saints gatherings she thought the
chance would never come to her,
but the Lord opened the way. Hoped she
would continue faithful, had a good
Patarichal blessing, would like to do all the
good she could.
	Sister Webb felt the spirit of the Lord
was with us here, referred to the Convention
just passed thought the ladies were very
pleasing speakers, but they had not the
Gospel, they were doing a great and good
work, referred to the words of President
Woodruff in Brigham City, that the
reapers had gone forth and many would be
cut down, was pleased to hear Sister Gib-
son’s testimony, gave her a very powerful
blessing. We all want to work in the
Temple, we should not spend all our
strength in worldly affairs, save our
strength for spiritual labors, be charitable
to each other, how much the Lord over-
looks in us.
	Sister M. P. Silver was pleased to be
back again, she knew that the prayers of
her sisters had helped her, knew that faith

[Column 2]
has been exercised, loved to come to meet-
ing, was sorry to be in Manti and not go to
the Temple. We all want suffrage. Sister
Kimball felt the sick needed the prayers of
our sisters, felt better for coming to meet-
ing, had a knowledge that the gifts were in
the church. Sister Hazon felt she would
be condemned if she did not add her testi-
mony to the rest. Hoped she would under-
stand the necessity to live her religion.
	Sister Horne would like to see the sisters
take the Poem from this sister, it was much
better to help people in this way than to
give them charity, the Conference will be in
four weeks, was glad the ladies had enjoyed
the late Convention, thought Miss Anthony,
Miss Shaw and the ladies from Colorado,
had been well treated here; if they will only
speak of us as we are, it is all we ask, be-
lieved they felt well towards us. Never
heard anyone so amusing as the Rev. Anna
Shaw the Prophet Joseph said a woman
should walk on a man's.left side so that,
he had his right hand to defend her. Sang,
“Mid scenes of Confusion.’’ Benediction,
Sister Julia Howe.
	MARY E. IRVINE, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	THE Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
Relief Society, convened at Bloomington
Meeting House, May 29, 1895, President
Julia P. Lindsay, presiding. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop
Finley. Singing.
	The Stake Secretary then called the offi-
cer’s roll and read the minutes of the pre-
vious conference, which were received.
	Opening remarks were then made by
Sister Lindsay, in which she expressed
pleasure at being enabled to meet with us
in conference. Said she had not visited
the stake this spring, therefore was not able
to report its condition. The following
Relief Society branches were then reported:
Bloomington, St. Charles by Sarah
Cook; Garden City by President Cook;
Round Valley by Counselor Early; Lake
Town by President A. Hodges; Woodruff,
Paris, First ward by Sister Sutton; Paris,
Second ward by President Eschler; Lanark
by President Toomer; Ovid, Liberty by Sis-
ter Morgan; Montpelier by President Ho-
ganson; Bennington by President Vanorman;
George Town by President Fretwell: Ward
Berne by Counselor Keith.
	The statistical reports were then read,
after which, President Lindsay said it had
been a source of great satisfaction to her, to
hear that all the branches reported were in
good condition. She also said that as
Sister E. Collings and herself were getting
old and were not able to take their journey
through their stake as they used to, it was
thought wise for her to select another aid,
accordingly Sister Amelia Hodge was
chosen and unanimously sustained as an
aid to the presidency of the Relief Society
of the Stake.
	Counselor E. Collings then arose and said
notwithstanding her great age and feeble
body she still had a strong desire to perform
every duty devolving upon her as far as she
was able. Endeavored to show the sisters
that they were here for a purpose, and that
they must attend to every known duty or
they would be held accountable for the
same. Laid particular stress on the work
that should be done for the dead; said that

[Column 2]
few indeed realized the importance of this
work. Bore a faithful testimony to the
truth of this work. 
	Sister Fretwell said she had lived in Nau-
voo at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith; said she knew that
Brigham Young was the legal successor of
the Prophet, for the first time she heard
him speak after the martyrdom, it was
Joseph's and not Brigham’s voice; said this
was a great testimony to her of the divinity
of the work.
	Meeting adjourned by singing, “God is
Love.” Benediction, President Budge.

	At 2 p. m, meeting was called and the
choir sang "Come to me.”
	Prayer by Brother Greenhalgh.
	Singing, “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang “How great the wisdom of
the Lord.”
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke at some
length on the improvement in the different
organizations of the Church and of the
necessity of the officers of the organizations
being united in their work.
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the many
tasks that we are called upon to perform
from time to time, and the need we have of
the spirit of God to ever be our guide and
companion; spoke also of the advantage of
the young and the many things that would
be required at their hands.
	President William Budge addressed us
for a short time, encouraged the sisters to
continue in the good work, assuring them
that their reward was certain; spoke of the
purity of the women of Zion and the exam-
ple they should set the world in this respect.
Touched on equal suffrage, expressed him-
self as being a strong advocate of the same.
Urged all to live up to their duties, so that
they might have the Spirit of Our Heaven-
ly Father with us continually, invoked the
blessings of God upon us.
	President J. P. Lindsay felt that we had
been well paid for attending meeting.
Thanked the people of Bloomington for
all their kindness during conference.
	Meeting adjourned for six months by
singing an anthem. “Praise Ye the Lord.”
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
					SEC., R. S.,

WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference convened at 
the Loa Relief Society Hall, May 30th,
1895. Present were Sisters Susan Grant
from Davis Stake, and Sister Maria W.
Wilcox from Salt Lake City, Stake Counse-
lor H. M. Hansen, Patriarch E. H. Black-
burn and other brethren. Singing, Prayer
offered by Br. E. H. Blackburn. Con-
tinued by singing. President J. S. Cole-
man made opening remarks, was pleased to
have sisters from Salt Lake with us, prayed
God to bless the speakers that we might
have a time of rejoicing. President Susan
Grant of Relief Society of Davis Stake,
said she was pleased to meet with the sisters
in Wayne Stake; as she had been called to
fill that appointment. Thought it was al-
ways encouraging to have sisters from other
localities visit us and talk upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel; “we all have to fit and
qualify ourselves for those things that we
are called upon to perform; we should make
our homes comfortable and desirable, so
that our children will like to stay at home;
teach the children the right path that they


[Column 1]
should walk in; precept is good, but exam-
ple is better; we are a greatly blessed peo-
ple, we have everything to encourage us."
She had enjoyed the privilege of being
acquainted with the prophet Joseph Smith,
knew he was a prophet of God, urged the
sisters to attend their meetings, give in
their donations, assist the bishops, help the
poor, and do all the good they could.
	Loa Relief Society was reported by Presi-
dent Margaret J. Taylor, doing well. Mary
E. Adams reported Teasdale Relief Society in
good condition. Sister Lucinda Brown said
she was pleased to bear her testimony
whenever she had the opportunity, always
enjoyed the labors in the Relief Society, we
should do all the good we can, the sisters
have the same spirit to guide them here
that they do in other places. President
Louisa J. Taylor reported the Fremont Re-
lief Society. Sister Maria W. Wilcox,
president of the Relief Society, 14th Ward,
Salt Lake City, was the next speaker, said
although strangers here we are of one
family, the Relief Society is a great and
glorious work, spoke of the meetings the
sisters had in the temple once a week, there
the minutes of the first meeting of the Re-
lief Society held at Nauvoo had been read
and talked upon; "if we do our duties in
meekness and humility we can be a great
help, it is a time that is spoken of when
the hearts of the children are turned to the
fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the
children, and when we pass behind the vail
it will be a great consolation to know that
we have done a great work for the dead.
Parents should teach their children their
duties, send them to the Primary Associa-
tion and Mutual Improvement. There they
learn things they never forget, urged the
parents to look after the young and rising
generation, asked the peace and blessings of
the Lord upon us.
	Patrairch E. H. Blackburn felt grateful
for the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in conference, and to hear what had been
said; "by sitting on our seats we learn a
great deal, but by getting up and bearing
our testimonies we learn more. We are
only too glad to welcome the sisters from
the north. When there is a Relief Society
Conference we should always try to be
there because there is a great deal to be
learned."
	Counselor H. M. Hansen was pleased to
give the sisters a word of encouragement
whenever he could. Said the Relief Society
throughout this Stake has been a relief in
very deed, spoke of the great help they
were to bishops, etc.
	Elder Joseph Eckerley said he regarded
the Relief Society as one of the greatest
helps in the Church, there never was an
age when people were more accomplished
than they are today, women are raised up
to be helpmeets and counselors to men.
The Lord knew the sisters were more capa-
ble of relieving the poor than the brethren
were, and therefore women have been
organized in this Church into societies.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said she had
been edified by what she had heard, and
made other encouraging remarks. Meeting
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing, "Do what
is right," etc. Benediction by Elder H.
M. Hansen.
	Afternoon session met in the Loa Meeting
House. After opening exercises Sister M.
W. Wilcox was the first speaker, said she
always had a testimony to bear to the truth
of the Gospel; the principle of faith should

[Column 2]
be exercised; "the Church and kingdom of
God has been established upon the earth
for the living and the dead, the Gospel has
brought us everything that we are in pos-
session of, we cannot become perfect at
once, but grow in knowledge from time to
time. Our work in the Relief Society is
endless, we cannot do too much good. The
sisters should cultivate the spirit of prayer
and wisdom.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah Meeks, Lyman by Presi-
dent Helen Maxfield. Sister Margaret Pace
made remarks which were timely. Sister
Coombs represented the Aldrich Relief
Society.
	Sister Susan Grant then addressed the
conference. Said she had a testimony to
bear of the truth, she knew the Lord lived
and heard our prayers, was always glad to
meet with the saints. We are all working
for the same end, we should be prayerful
so we will not grow indifferent; always
endeavor to do a work for our kindred dead,
raise our families so they will have a desire
to go to the Temple to be married; parents
should raise their children pure and noble,
our children are all we can take with us
here after, it is our duty to obey the good
counsel we hear from time to time; it is
always a help to the sisters to have the
brethren meet with them, asked the Lord
to bless the sisters of the Wayne Stake.
	President J. S. Coleman said she had
been highly edified with the remarks made
by the sisters and appreciated their visit,
spoke of the minutes of the meeting at
Nauvoo, published in the EXPONENT. The
Relief Society is not only to relieve the
poor, but to save souls. We should be
thankful that our spirits have been reserved
till this the last dispensation.
	Stake President W. E. Robison encour-
aged the sisters to go on in their good work,
said the brethren should come to meetings
and see what great good the sisters are do-
ing, exhorted the sisters to observe the
Word of Wisdom, gave other good instruc-
tions, related a revelation given to President
Taylor, appreciated the visit of the sisters,
spoke highly of the Relief Society in Wayne
Stake.
	President Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again,"
conference adjourned for six months.
	Benediction by J. T. Lazenby.
ANNA O. COLEMAN ,Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUPT. OF SCHOOLS.

	MISS ESTELLE REEL, State Superinten-
dent of Public Instruction in Wyoming,
was interviewed for the Chicago Daily
Tribune and is reported as saying:
	The fact that I am a woman did not keep
me from bearing my share of the burdens
of the campaign, financial or otherwise. I
traveled over most of the great State of
Wyoming, which has an area of 97,000
square miles, much of the distance being
covered by stage-coach or wagon. I did
not make any attempts at oratory in my
speeches, and did not try to discuss the
political issues of the day, but confined my
remarks to explaining the duties of the
office for which I was a candidate, and tell-
ing why I thought I could perform them to
satisfaction. I was treated with the great-
est courtesy in all parts of the State, and
by the press, of whatever political faith.
Of course, some of the eastern papers tried
to manufacture a funny side to the cam-


paign, and a paragraph went the rounds to
the effect that I had agreed with my op-
ponent to marry him in the event of his
election and my defeat. As the man al-
ready had a wife, this campaign story did
not carry much weight when it reached
Wyoming. Another story was circulated
to the effect that I secured my large vote—
I had the largest vote of any candidate, by
the way—by having sent my photograph to
every man in the State. The only founda-
tion for this story was the fact that I, in
common with other candidates on the ticket,
sent out considerable campaign literature
bearing our none too flattering pictures.
Widely exaggerated tales of perfumed notes
being sent to cowboys who rode 100 miles
to vote for me, as well as to wave six-
shooters in the faces of those who voted
against me, also went the rounds. Well, to
make a long story short, the battle was
won.”
	“Is there any dissatisfaction in regard to
woman suffrage in Wyoming? was asked.
	‘‘There is not,” was the decisive re-
joinder. ‘‘On the contrary, the institution
seems to give general satisfaction to all
political parties and to both sexes.”


WILL ALLEN DROMGOOLE ON
SILVER.

	Miss Will Allen Dromgoole, the popular
Southern author, gave an address at the
"Capital College" in Atlanta, Ga., a few
days ago, and paid a high tribute to Miss
Anthony, which was warmly applauded.
She said:
	"It is a great thing to be the mother of a
great cause. Years ago there flashed upon
the world a woman; she had no other an-
nouncement than the "wild scheme" she
had mothered. Wherever she went the
hiss, the sneer, the finger of scorn were sure
to follow. Yet she pushed right on; the
implacable enemy of slavery in vanity's
dress; the mother of an unborn cause. To
me she stands majestic among women; to
me she is the grandest picture in the book
of our time; to me, like the prayer of my
childhood, the name of Susan B. Anthony
holds something grandly, solemnly, pa-
thetically, magnificently sacred. Whatever
may have been her blunders, whatever her
faults, still she fought for women. And
since she fought for women, in the name of
womanhood let no woman cast a stone at
her. She is one of those who will never
die; her name will go thundering down the
ages long after you and I are forgotten;
while her cause, the child for which she
sacrificed so much that makes a woman's
life dear to her, will live, and throb, and
thrive, and flourish, long after she has
found a refuge under moss and marble.
And her name shall outwear the marble
that shall cover her great heart; posterity
shall weave for her a crown that old Time
cannot touch. You may refuse her a hear-
ing to-day; deny her the rose and the laurel.
but to-morrow shall avenge her; and al-
ready that to-morrow is dawning; upon the
Western slope where the sun goes down,
already the rose of the new day is reflecting.
Already the world has caught her message;
already the ear of woman is attuned to its
meaning, already the multitudes rise up to
"call her blessed," already upon the
threshold of life stands the new woman, the
creature of her inspiration, knocking for
recognition, And as Moses refused to be


called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, so
this new woman refuses longer to be re-
garded merely as man's amusement, and 
step-daughter to Adam's spare rib."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN. 
	W. S. A. at SUMMIT, IRON CO. 

	President E. Crane Watson, Vice Pres. 
Mary Ellerton and other members of the
Iron Co. Association held a suffrage meet-
ing at Summit, Iron Co., April 10. 
	Singing “My country now of thee,”
	Prayer, Mrs. Lettie Dalley. 
	Pres. Watson was somewhat disappointed
that more of the older people were not
present. 
	The first lesson in Civil Government was
creditably given by Mary Ellerton, as slso
was the Parliamentary Law lesson, by Miss
Lydia Wardell. A comic recitation, “The
Inventor’s Wife,” was rendered by Miss
Minnie Adams. Aunt Pauline Lyman
could not remember when she was first 
converted to woman’s rights. Thought
women could as well go to the polls to vote
as to the Post Office, and did not think any 
homes would be neglected. 
	Pres. Watson read a few selections from 
our paper, “The Echo of Equal Suffrage,”
well suited to allay any prejudice against an
organization. Mrs. Watson advised although
did not urge an organization; but a vote was
taken which decided in favor of one. 
	Mrs. Sarah Hulette, President, and Mrs.
Annie Dalley as first, and Miss Lilly Dalley
as second Vice Presidents were unanimously
sustained, as also were the following offi-
cers: Miss Jessie White, Secretary, Miss
Millie Allen, Treasurer; Mrs. Fanny Far-
row, chairman of Executive Committee;
members of same: Miss Lenora Hulette,
Mrs. Sophia Dalley, Miss Ordine Nielson, 
Mrs. Lorcena Dalley.
	After the organization was complete, 
complete, Mrs. Watson gave the necessary 
instructions to the Executive Committee in 
regard to their Board meetings, mentioned
the books and music used and place of get-
ting it.	Encouraged all to do their part, 
to make the meetings a success. The Iron
County by-laws were read and meeting ad-
journed. 
	Members: Mrs. Thrine Dalley, Mrs. Lil-
lie Dalley, Mr. James Dalley, Miss Minnie
Dalley, Miss Millie Dalley, Miss Melissa
Allen, Miss Lydia Dalley, Miss Esther
Dalley, Miss Laura Dalley.
		
		PARAGOONAH	

	THE officers of the Iron Co. W. S. A.
and some members of the same held a very
interesting program meeting at Paragoonah
on the evening of April 16th, 1895, the
object being to create an interest in political
matters there.
	The usual lessons in Parliamentary Law
and Civil Government were not omitted
while suitable songs, recitations, duets and
instrumental music interspersed kept up a
lively interest between which E. S. D.
Watson and Paulina Lyman made enthusi-
astic speeches in woman’s favor well, calcu-
lated to elicit praise. No organization was
affected, however, but we are patiently
waiting for a change in their feelings and
an invitation to return and organize.
		MINNIE ADAMS, Cor. Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS
	At the McKean County (Pa.) Republican
Convention at Smethport, June 11. the fol-
lowing resolution was unanimously
adopted:
	That we note with satisfaction the recognition
of women in Republican councils. The
policy which has encouraged manufactures and
stimulated invention has opened to American
womanhood an auspicious era. New machinery
aud new forms of industry have multiplied the
demand for labor and the intensity of resulting
competition has summoned to its service the la-
bor of women, The consequent enlargement.of
woman’s sphere has been marked by re-enforced
interest in topics of social, industrial and econo-
mic concern, and by increased participation of
women in public affairs Pending the question
of the unqualified admission of women to the
right of suffrage, which is now undergoing dis-
cussion and trial in different quarters of the Union,
we respectfully urge the the forthcoming Re-
publican State Convention to commend the ad-
mission of women to vote upon questions per-
taining to education, and to invoke accordingly
their participation in party primaries and con-
ventions.’’
	MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW, President of
the New England Women’s Press As-
sociation, has been appointed by Gov.
Greenhalge as a member of the Massachu-
setts Commission to visit the Atlanta Ex-
position next fall. The press women are
pleased with the honor done Miss Winslow,
who is much beloved among them, pleased,
also, that the honor was so to speak,
“thrust upon” her, the appointment com-
ing entirely without previous intimation, as
a complete surprise. The commission con-
sists of five members, two of whom are
women—Miss Winslow and Mrs. Mc-
Daniell.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	We, the Young Ladies of Kamas, do most sin-
cerely and with sorrowing hearts, wish to express
our regrets and grief, at the death of our beloved
President, Sister Eliza Rhead, and to extend our
sympathy to her sorrowing children and friends.
	That she has been a faithful Friend and Coun-
selor to us all, we do most sincerely testify.
	And as the Father has seen fit to call her to that
better land where sorrow and death cannot come,
we, the Young Ladies of the Kamas Association
do resolve that we will strive to emulate her vir-
tues, that we may meet her there. That we may
again listen to her motherly, loving voice and re-
joice with her in the Father’s kingdom, where she
has gone to receive the welcome message. “Well
done thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou
into the joys of thy Lord.
	CELESTIA T. PACK, Pres’t MARTHA CORBETT,
KATE WOODARD, Counselors; MAY LAMBERT
Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A. of KAMAS, May 18, 1895.

	DIED, at Spanish Fork, June 7th, 1895, Sister
Isabella Rockhill after a few weeks illness. Sis-
ter Rockhill was first counselor in the Relief
Society and a faithful worker therin for many
years; she was full of faith and unflinching integ-
rety in the principles of the Gospel. She leaves
one son, eleven grandchildren and three great-
grandchildren, besides a host of friends to mourn
her loss.
Rest, sister rest, your journey is ended;
	With patience you’ve traveled the rough thorny
		road,
Bathe your tired, weary feet in the river of life,
	That gently flows by in your Father’s abode.
Sleep, sister sleep, in life thou wert lovely,
	And death has not marred that noble, impress,
A daughter of God of lineage most royal,
	A crown for a cross, awaits thy fair brow in the
		mansions of bliss.
	MARY BAXTER


DIED, in Farmington, Davis Co,, March 1st,
1895, of pneumonia, sister Laurinda M. Robinson,
wife of the late Jos. L. Robinson first Bishop of
Farmington. The deceased was born in Mans-
field, Folland Co., Conn. May 3rd, 1821, and was
the mother of nine children six of whom sur-
vived her. She came to the valley in 1848. Her
son Nathan was killed by the Indians while on a
mission to Arizona. She was a faithful teacher in
the Relief Society and President of the Silk As-
sociation of Davis Co. She was loved and re-
spected by all who knew her and died in the hope
of a glorious resurection. Well may it be said of
her ‘‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.”
She had the work done in the Salt Lake and Lo-
gan Temple for about twenty-five dead relatives.
	She has passed the pearly gates,

		She has gone to her reward,
	Up there where her husband waits,
		In the mansions of the Lord.

	And her works behind her shine,
		As the sunset in the west,
	Leaves a track of light behind,
		So her works light her to rest.

	Faithful through this troubled life,   
		To her God and husband true,
	As a Saint, as mother, wife,
		With a crown of glory due!
							E. S. ROBINSON.


Excursion Rates July 4th.

Via the UNION PACIFIC.

	July 3rd and 4th the Union Pacific will
sell excursion tickets to any point within
300 miles at one fare, good returning until
July 5th.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1895.		No. 4.


CONTENTS:
	Bryant the Poet—Mrs. Lawler. In Rural Eng-
land. Mrs. Messenger’s Poems—E. B. W. U.
W. P. C.—L. S. Wilcox. Our Little Paper—M.
E. K. What is Our Position Today—Zion’s Con-
vert. Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw. Mrs. Diggs
of Kansas. The Evolution of Suffrage—Ellen
Battelle Dietrick. Relief Society Organized—V.
F. Major. Notes and News. Mrs. Horne’s Visit
to Idaho—L. M. Hart.
	EDITORIAL:—Shall WomenVote in November?
Old Folks Annual Excursion.
	POETRY:—Paul or Christ—Lillie E. Barr. Son-
nets on the Virgin Mary—Ruby Lamont. Golden
Bells—E. R. S.


PAUL OR CHRIST.

			By Lillie E. Barr.

‘‘I suffer not that any woman teach, 
	Or bear the message of the Lord’s good will;
Let her keep silence—she hath no call to preach-
	’Tis hers to learn and modestly sit still."
Thus the Apostle. Yet the risen Lord, 
	Waiting beside the newly-broken tomb
For messenger to send with His first word
	Unto the church within that upper room,
Chose but a woman with a loving heart
	(Oh! fair her feet with those glad tidings shod)
“I am arisen, and I now depart
	And go unto our Father and our God.” 
Did Christ make some mistake, that first by her 
	The truth and light ol resurrection shone?
He Mary chose to be his messenger; 
	Would Paul have sent St. Peter or St. John?
							-   New York Independent.


SONNETS ON THE VIRGIN MARY.

Among the vestal virgins of the courts
In the grand Temple, Mary moved, the peer,
In beauty and in holiness sincere;
Most frequent to the altar she resorts,
And in her pure devotion, born of trust
And more than common faith, her soul aspires
To win the glorious heights where spirits just
And true and perfect, in unending fires
Of glory, dwell with God. Her high-arched brows,
Penciled o’er eyes with spirit all aglow,
Bespeak her depth of soul; 'mid angel vows
She moves in meekness; her sweet voice is low
With thougnt and kindness; the pure law of God,
Her brightest joy; its high, pure path she trod.

Meek, gentle maiden! when thy lovely boy
Was laid within thine arms, the tender voice
Of thy sweet infant bade thine heart rejoice,
How must dark grief have mingled with thy joy.
Thy gold of gladness had its dark alloy!
How must thine heart have shrunk from sorrow’s
	hour!
Was not rejected, scorned, the prophet’s cry?
Must He not fall beneath th’ oppressor’s power?
Within the depths of those pure, heart full eyes,
In love and wonder bent upon thy child,
A dark’ning shadow of the future lies.
'Tis fate; thine heart must yield, sweet mother,
	mild.
The pain is deeper than the sad world knows,
And darker e’en than others are thy woes!
						RUBY LAMONT.


[column 1]
		BRYANT THE POET.

	Wm. Cullen Bryant, was born at Cumming-
ton, Massachusetts on Nov. 3rd, 1794, and
died June 12th, 1878. He was our earliest
great poet and Thanatopsis one of his earli-
est poems. But when we call Bryant our
earliest poet and Thanatopsis our earliest
poem, we must not suppose that both had
not had many ineffectual predecessors.
Versifiers like gowns flourish for a time
and are then forgotten in favor of a later
fashion? Bryant being asked in 1818 to
write an article on American poetry for the
American Review, complied, and, among
the many names of poets mentioned in his
article the works of not one of them are
read today. All these volumes belong to
fossil literature, that may be dug up and
studied for the light it may throw on the
customs of a time, or its own intellectual de-
velopment, but which so far as its own vi-
tality is concerned has passed away beyond
hope of resuscitation. Almost coeval with
American Independence itself was the no-
tion that there ought to be an Independent
American literature. The revolution had
resulted in the formation of a republic new
in pattern, in opportunities, in ideals; a re-
public which having broken forever with
the political system of Britain would gladly
have been freed from all obligations, includ-
ing intellectual and aesthetic obligations to
her. We hardly realize how acute was the
sensitiveness of our great-grandfathers on
this point. The satisfaction they took in
recalling the victories of Bennington and
Yorktown vanished when they were re-
minded, and there was always some candid
foreigner at hand to remind them that a na-
tion's real greatness is measured not by the
size of its crops, nor by its millions of
square miles of surface, nor even by its
ability to whip King George the III,
armies but by its contributions to philos-
ophy, to literature, to art, to religion;
“What have you to show in these lines?”
We imagine the candid foreigner to have
been perpetually asking, and the patriotic
American to have winced as he had to re-
ply “nothing.”
	The Hebrew Patriarchs whose faith
Jehovah tested by denying them children
until their wives were aged, were not less
troubled at the postponement of their dear-
est wishes than were these eager watchers
for the advent of American genius. Long
before Bryant's little volume was published
in 1821, those watchers had begun to spec-
ulate as to the sort of work in which that
genius would manifest itself and there was
conjured up that bogy—The American
Spirit—which has flitted up and down
through our college lecture rooms and
fluttered the mind of immature critics ever
since. Consequently they did not ask “Is
it excellent?” but has it the American
spirit? Bryant himself must consciously or
unconsciously have been subjected to
those influences, for who can escape breath-
ing the common atmosphere? But he had
within him that which is more potent than

[column 2]
any external mold, and which is the one
trait in genius of any kind, he had sincerity.
What he saw he saw with his own eyes.
what he spake he spake with his own lips.
Bryant by merely being natural and sincere
was instantly recognized as belonging to
that lineage, every one of whose children is
a King.
	The story of his entrance into literature
cannot be too often told. His father was
a genial, fairly cultivated country doctor;
his mother, Sarah Snell, an indefatigable
housewife with Yankee common sense and
deep-grained Puritan principles. William
Cullen was precocious; both parents en-
couraged his aptitude for verse making. In
1810 he entered the Sophomore class of
William’s College and spent a year there.
He hoped to pass from William’s to Yale
where he looked for more advanced in-
structions, but his father's means did not
permit and instead of finishing his course at
William’s he went into a country lawyer’s
office and fitted himself for the bar Just
at the moment of indecision, in the autumn
of 1811 Byrant wrote Thanatopsis. Contrary
to his custom he did not show it to his
father but laid it away with other papers in
a drawer. Six years later his father, Dr. 
Bryant, found that and the “Waterfowl.”
He sent them to Boston and they appeared
in the Review for September 1817. The
young poet having completed his law
studies was practicing law at Great Barring-
ton unconscious of the fame about to de-
scend upon him; the best judges agreeing
at last that a bit of genuine American liter-
ature was before them, and the uncritical
but appreciative, from ministers to school
children, read, learned, admired and quoted
the grave sonorous lines. Thanatopsis is
composed of two Greek words, Thanatos,
meaning death, and opsis a view—a vision
of death. A strange corner stone for the
poetic literature of the nation which had
only lately sprung into life, a nation con-
scious as no other had been of its exuberant
vitality, of its boundless material resources,
of its expansiveness and invincible will.
Yet neither the glory achieved nor the am-
bition cherished fired the imagination of the
youthful poet. He looked upon the earth
and saw it but a vast grave. He looked
upon men and believed not their high at-
tainments nor the great deeds which herald
hnman story but their transcience, their
mortality. Nothing in life could so awe
him as the majestic mystery of death. A 
hundred years have elapsed since his birth;
three generations have known his works.
His poetry lives today and the qualities
which have vitalized it for three quarters of
a century show no signs of decay. There is
no doubt as to the veracity of his pictures,
and the moral tone which pervades them is
of a kind men will not soon outgrow. As
editor of N. Y. Evening Post, his editorials
were always full of dignity. He elevated
the level of the American newspaper. He
was never a snarling critic either of men or
of measures, and there was in the office of 
the paper a list of words and phrases not al-
lowed in its pages.


Bryant delighted in nature, for her own
sake, for her beauty and variety. What is 
more beautiful than these expressive lines
taken from “God’s First Temples.”

A FOREST HYMN.
	“Father, thy hand
Hath reared these venerable columns, thou
Dids’t weave this verdant roof. Thou dids’t
	look down
Upon the naked earth, and, forthwith, rose
All these fair ranks of trees. They in thy sun
Budded, and shook their green leaves in thy
	breeze,
And shot towards heaven. The centuary-living
	crow
Whose birth was in their tops, grew old and died
Among their branches, till, at last, they stood,
As now they stand, massy, and tall, and dark,
Fit shrine for humble worshiper to hold
Communion with his maker.”

	Who among us have not felt enough of
sadness at the death of summer to enter
into Bryant’s feelings when he wrote
THE DEATH OF THE FLOWERS. 
	But to me the grandest of them all is
Thanatopsis.
	May we all,

‘‘So live that when the summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan, which moves
To that mysterious realm, where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not like the quarry-slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and
	soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.”
(MRS.) LAWLER.
	Read at the Utah Women’s Press Club
1894.


WOMEN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLV.

	When Jane Harrison bade the Walton
children good-bye her her sorrow was very
keen notwithstanding her manifest self-
control; she felt there was much to be con-
sidered and perhaps it would be best for
the present that they should be with Mait-
land, it would she hoped and trusted be a
tie to bind him to his home. Her own
heart was sorely afflicted because of the war
which was disrupting the country and her
husband was taking an active part in pub-
lic affairs which every day assumed more
serious proportions. Sidney Barrington
was chaplain of a regiment stationed near,
and all this was decidedly against the
opinions of Maitland, though he was so
thoroughly indifferent to his country's
methods that he took little interest in what
Mrs. Harrison and others told him. Jane
Harrison was very patriotic in her way and
willing to make every sacrifice possible for
the cause of the colonies in their rebellion
against British rule, and to the utmost of
her ability she encouraged and stimulated
those women who were faint-hearted and
fearful of the final outcome.
	Some months went by and still Rob Har-
rison was away on duty and his wife had
only her woman and neighbors about, but
Conway had grown a great boy and com-
panionable, and they conversed much
together of the old castle, and the beautiful
scenery which the boy remembered well,
and his mother dwelt upon the serious

[Column 2]
wrongs inflicted upon the colonies by King
George, and the boy Conway would grow
quite enthusiastic as he listened to his
mother's eloquent portrayal of the hard-
ships endured by the early Pilgrims, and
the injustice of the mother country. Once
or twice he asked, "Why did you let Ed-
ward and Anna go back to live under such
a wicked King, a tyrant, could we not have
kept them here with us? now we shall never
see them for the King will never let ships
come when the war is over."
	"Never fear Conway," his mother ans-
wered, "they will be sure to come when
we are free, and stay with us, but you Con-
way, promise me you will be true to this
our land and never forsake it never, what-
ever betide." And the boy promised for
in reality Jane Harrison feared should any-
thing happen to her, that Clair would feel
it his right to take Conway back to Hilliard
castle.
	But Mrs. Harrison lived, a little daugh-
ter was born to her one stormy night when
her husband was miles away, and none but
her women were near her, yet she rejoiced
that she passed the ordeal safely for Con-
way's sake as well as the little stranger,
and she knew too, how glad her husband
would be for his first-born. Mrs. Harrison
recovered rapidly, in fact there was no time
to be ill, there was too much excitement
everywhere, and the most harrowing tales
were told from one to another of the hard-
ships and privations of those who were de-
fending their homes and country against
such fearful odds.
	At last on leave of absence her husband
came and her joy was almost too great, but
she exerted herself to be calm, and Mr.
Harrison displayed more emotion with all
his heroism than the patient mother who
had borne so much alone, waiting in ex-
pectancy of what she knew not. "Jane,
my dear wife, what shall we call our little
darling, you know I must soon be off again
and I should like her named while I am
here with you."
	Jane knew as women do naturally that
he would love to have his little one called
by the name of one he had loved when a
boy and quickly replied, "Let us name
her Clarice for Anna's mother, it would
have pleased Anna I am sure." "Always
brave and self-denying was there ever such
a woman as my true and loyal wife? I was
thinking we could call her Jane."
	"Oh no we cannot have two Jane's in
one house." "Then let it be Clarice since
you really wish it." and they both felt it
was right, and so it was settled. Sidney
came home too meantime and baby was
christened Clarice Harrison.
	When Clair and Maitland heard the
news of baby Harrison, they sent costly
presents and loving messages, and the
children Edward and Anna talked of noth-
ing else for weeks afterwards, and indeed
they never forgot the time when the letter
came bringing word of the little cousin
away over the water, the great sea of which
they had so often talked since they had
crossed it on their return to England.
Maitland allowed the children to go often
to the castle and stay there with Clair who
was very fond of them and they loved the
place much better than Walton Hall. Lady
Walton was very suspicious and sometimes
irritable with them sending them away just
when they were most anxious to be with
her, for she was always elegantly attired

[Column 3]
and everything about her of the most ele-
gant and costly ornaments, furnishings and
pictures and the children thought this
grand lady and her belongings as charming
as any fairy tale and sometimes when the
maid would tell them of fairyland and the
wonderful people who lived there, little
Anna would exclaim, "but mamma, Lady
Walton, is more beautiful than any of them."
Lady Walton was very proud of Edward
and also very fond of him, he bore the name
she loved best, and gave promise of being as
brave and as brilliant as Sir Edward had
been in his palmy days.
	The next event of great importance was
the sudden death of Lady Walton; and this
made a material change in the family ar-
rangements. Maitland's wife had never
cared for his mother with any degree of
affection, but had allowed her to retain the
place of honor, being too sensible to assert
herself though Maitland had sometimes in-
sisted upon her doing so; the children too
had been left more under her direction,
though sometimes for weeks together she
left them to the care of maids and govern-
neses. Now young Lady Walton assumed
the responsibility of the household, and
proposed to superintend the children.
	As is well known the war of the Revolu-
tion lasted for seven years and during that
period of time Robert and Jane Harrison
remained true to the allegiance given to the
colonies, and Robert Harrison was pro-
moted and given the title of Major, while
Sidney Barrington still true to his patriotic
convictions prayed and preached, and min-
istered comfort and consolation to many
hundreds of wounded and dying men. His
mission was a lofty one and he was ever
aided and encouraged in this work of love
by his aunt, Jane Harrison.
	Meantime very little was known of their
friends on the other side the water; party
feeling ran very high and there was no op-
portunity to argue or adjust questions re-
lating to differences of opinion. Their lives
drifted wide apart, all communication was
in a measure cut off. It was long after-
wards "when the cruel war was over," and
peace was restored, that some news came
indirectly at first that Clair Hilliard had
been abroad that a son had been born to
him, and his wife had died shortly after, and
he was left alone and desolate; that Mait-
land had not been so circumspect as it was
hoped he would be. Clair afterwards de-
cided to take his little son and go across the
sea to America and visit his cousin. News
from the relatives there was very encoura-
ging, and almost without warning, save a
message sent by a mutual friend, he arrived
late one summer evening at the handsome
residence of his cousin Jane. The meeting
was a very affecting one and many tears
were shed, and it was more like one coming
from another world. Mrs. Harrison was
deeply shocked at the change in her cousin
and felt unless he recuperated quickly, his
days were numbered. He was no longer
the light-hearted gay musician and singer,
but frail and care-worn, evidently the death
of his young wife, and the care and burden
of a large estate had taken much of his vi-
tality, and he had not the heart or the am-
bition to rise above these difficulties and
afflictions. Clair gave them good news of
Anna's children, told them of the beautiful
Anna, and the brave and captivating young
Edward, which was very gratifying to his
cousin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.							27


GOLDEN BELLS.

[Read at the Golden Wedding of Brother and
Sister Cla[-]k of Farmington.]

	Hark, listen to those golden bells!
	How many thoughts their music tells
	How many scenes of joy and pain,
	Are echoed in that sweet refrain.

	Our heart-throbs beat with each wild stroke,
	As if from years of slumber woke.
	For ah! those golden wedding bells,
	Just half a long, long century tells!

	Their golden tongues with potent power,
	Portray the dark and brighter hour. 
	But through them all with love sublime,
	Two hearts with faith and trust still twine.

	Now many friends with loving thought
	Have homage to the faithful brought;
	For they with toil and earnest zeal.
	Have worked for years for Zion’s weal.

	Unflinching ever since their youth,
	They’ve labored long to spread the truth, 
	And in the hearts of young and old,
	Their names enshrined in words of gold.

	From many hearts come fervent prayers
	For God to lighten all their cares;
	Increase their joys, augment their powers,
	Make smooth, their path, and scatter, flowers.

	Their days on earth with joys be crowned,
	Until the “diamond bells” shall sound,
	And called at last by Heavenly bells 
	To join the feast where Father dwells.
								E. R. S.


MRS. MESSENGER’S POEMS.
	
	When in Washington last winter a very
bright and pleasant lady was introduced to
me by a dear friend whom I met on my
first visit to the capital, and in introducing
the lady she said; My friend here, Mrs.
Messenger is a poet and an author which,
(as a matter of course) interested me very
much more, and after conversing with her
a few minutes, she promised to give me a
copy of her book, in return I promised to
make a notice of it after a careful review,
which I had not time to give for some
weeks, but have found some charming
verses and can safely recommend its perusal.
	The title is “The Vision of Gold,” which
is a long poem of real merit and then many
shorter poems. One rather lengthy poem
but very odd and quite a romance full of
clear-cut gems is Halloween, which opens
with an extract from Goethe.

	“And what is more deserving to survive,
	And silently to work for centuries,
	Than the confession of a gentle love
	Confided modestly to gentle song.”

	Mrs. Lillian Rozell Messenger is the full
name of the author of the book of poems
from which we republish some snatches as
specimens; all her poems are pure in lan-
guage and feeling, and show a mind gentle
and refined, as well as poetic talent and cul- 
tivation.
	From a poem entitled “Adieu.”
		“Good-night, sweet night;
		I must away though not to leave thee dumb,
		Nor very lone, for see the moon hath come
		And gives thee now a soul of light!”
	In a poem of three pages, all very good
called “The Press,” I have selected one
verse.


"As far as the desert spreads its night,
	In the forest or West or East,
The Press to the dreary will bear its light, 
		And knowledge shall be high-priest.” 
From one called “Fate.”
	"The murmur of joy in the young old tree,
		And echoes in two hearts below,
Who dream in love’s felicity
Which only the loving know. 
					“If.”
	"The little prayer I said for you,
	That floated out on violet wings
	Softer than roses twilight brings
	Between the sunset and the sea,—
	That angels named Felicity—
	Will ope the cold, dark door and roll
	The stone away from your dim soul
	Whence you will come to find instead
	Your higher self, peace wept as dead,
	And angels by, you never knew.
	If love be true! If love be true!
					“A Farewell.”
	"Good-bye, old year, good-bye!
	I hope that you buried all wrongs said,
	And the broken vows,let them rest in your tomb!
	For Oh, you’ve taken from me
	What will not return through the cycles fled,
	Nor be lost in eternity.”

	The book contains many gems. The
poem Farewell is a very beautiful one, we
have only quoted the last verse.
								E. B. W.


U. W. P. C.

	Minutes of Utah Woman’s Press Club
meeting, held Saturday evening June 29th,
1895. Vice-president Ruth M. Fox presid-
ing. Opening prayer by Mrs. E. J. Steven-
son. Roll called. Minutes of previous
meeting read and with one exception ap-
proved.
	Mrs. Hattie B. Harker gave a biographi-
cal sketch of Mrs. Phoebe W. Woodruff.
	Mrs. M. A. Winters, a visitor from Pleas-
ant Grove, was invited to address the meet-
ing. Said that she when a little girl, had
traveled with her mother in the company
of Mrs, Woodruff; knew her to be a noble
woman.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells and Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson both spoke in honor and
praise of Mrs. Woodruff, and gave remin-
scensces of her life.
	Mrs. Wells read an original poem,
“Autumnal Musings.”
	This was followed by a debate, “Shall
We Have a Double Money Standard for
America?” The affirmative won
	Programme for next meeting. Roll called
to be answered by sentiments from John
Ruskin. Subject, “The Single Tax Ques-
tion.” Dr. R. B. Pratt to lecture and the
members to discuss. Song, Miss Pearl
Russel. Original Poem, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
Meeting adjourned for one month. Bene-
diction by Mrs. L. D. Alder.
	L. S. WILCOX Sec’y.


THE growing interest of women in pub-
lic questions was strikingly shown last
week in the National Republican League
Convention, at Cleveland, O. Populist
women take fully as active a part in the
conventions of their party, and Democratic
women are coming more and more to do
the same. It is a good thing for women of
all shades of political faith to co-operate
with the men holding similar views.---Ex.


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	This morning I was highly entertained
while reading our little paper. In the
first place in reading the remarks of our be-
loved Sister Horne whose teaching is al-
ways so motherly and kind, well seasoned
by scripture lessons making every word
weighty and inspiring to memory. Not
only so but all the daily duties of life which
have been her experience appreciated day by
day, and practicable as well.
	She also refers to the remarks of President
Brigham Young, who, while urging the im-
portance of diligence and faithfulness in our
duties to God and to each other said, “If
we are not diligent and faithful in keeping
the commands of God our Father, when
Babylon falls we will fall with her. Nor
will we be worthy to be called by the name
of Him whom St. John saw in his vision
whose name was written on his thigh,
“Faithful and True.”
	Another article in this paper, the editorial,
was called, The Need of the Hour, her
opinion is, there never was a time when
there was greater need of activity and dili-
gence in looking after the interests of the
community than the present. This then
shows that the growth and prosperity of a
people depend largely upon the work of
the preliminary proceedings, also the energy,
perseverance, thrift and industry of its sons
and daughters, and finally her petition is,
“Oh, that supreme wisdom may be given as
it was to our fore-fathers who framed the
glorious constitution of our great Republic.”
	Now I would ask, should not we offer
another petition for those men who are
now expected to frame as she says a consti-
tution for the State of Utah, that it may be
permanent, a sure foundation that will not 
continually need patching up. because it is
not equally well poised?
	It seems that we have every facility to
make Utah a lovely State a good home for
the industrious and frugal community.
Such as those who first entered this valley;
they were a humble people appreciating
every blessing as a gift from God our
Father, not forgetting to thank Him con-
tinually for blessing the efforts of this peo-
ple and also in answering their prayers in
times of affliction, for such times will come
occasionally to prove us, this test will show
whether we are chaff or wheat, and charita-
ble as well. Yes, it will test our faith in
omnipotence who is at the head of all in-
telligence, and of the One who never fails to
hear the prayers of those who keep his
commandments, for such persons can ask
in faith, knowing the words of Jesus were,
“In vain ye call me Lord, Lord, and do
not the things which he bids us.” Then
let us be careful not to grasp too eagerly
the things of this life that we forget the
world and look beyond, is my prayer.
M. E. K.
Sept. 25th, 1894.


MISS NELLIE MURPHY of the Antlers
Hotel, Colorado Springs, is said to be the 
only woman room-clerk in a large hotel in
this country. In England the position is
often held by women.
	THE demand for space in the Woman's
Building at the Cotton States and Inter-
national Exposition has been so great that
the woman's board has been compelled to 
ask for an appropriation for an annex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE  WELLS CANNON (Camelia), 	Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time. $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street. opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second class matter
	SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1895.


[Column 1]

SHALL WOMEN VOTE IN
NOVEMBER?

	The question of whether women can
legally register and vote at the coming
election in November is still unsettled and 
from information of a reliable character we
glean that the Utah Commission are un-
willing or not sufficiently confident to de-
cide it. It seems incredible that such an 
important matter should be left to registrars
to decide, and it involves too much interest
in the new state to be set aside without in-
vestigation. Lawyers and judges have
had the matter under advisement, but no
positive solution of the question has been
reached.
	The Utah Commission are busy appoint-
ing registrars for the several counties, and 
we notice that at a meeting held by the 
Commission on Friday June 12th, Commis-
sioner Tatlock introduces a resolution on
this subject, proposing to submit the ques-
tion to the Attorney General, which cer-
tainly does seem the safest thing to do un-
der the circumstances. The resolution is
as follows:
	First—Under and by virtue of the foregoing
provision of the enabling act, and the proposed
constitution are women, who are citizens of the
United States, over the age of twenty-one years,
and who have resisted in the territory for one
year next prior to November 5, 1895, entitled to 
resignation?
	Second—Can women possessing the qualifica-
tions set forth in the foregoing be legally en-
titled to vote upon the question of the adoption,
or rejection of the proposed constitution at the
November election, A D 1895?
	Third—At the November election to be held
in 1895 as above stated, can women possessing
the qualifications set forth in question No. 1
legally vote for the state offices provided for in
the proposed constitution?
	The resolution was laid over until an-
other meeting. 
	It seems too bad to lay the matter over;
there certainly ought to be some positive
authority for, or against the proposition.
To vote or not to vote seems to be the vital
question for women at the present time. 
	The suffrage has been conferred upon 
the women of the territory by the delegates
duly elected to the Constitutional Conven-
tion while assemble, and it does seem as 
though the right of suffrage ought to be
exercised by them in having a voice and a 
vote as to the officers who shall govern
and control affairs in the new state. It will
make a very great difference in many re-
spects if women are to be excluded from
this first election.

[Column 2]
	The women of this commonwealth are by
every possible right of citizenship entitled
to fair representation in public affairs.
They have borne heroically their share (and
the largest share too) of the hardships and
burdens of colonizing. Wherever men
have gone to open up new fields, and found
new settlements women have gone with
them, with their little children, exposed to
the same dangers from sun and heat, or 
cold and storms of all kinds, from savage
Indians, from wild animals, from snakes
and reptiles, living in tents and wagons,
with scarcity of food and clothing in many
instances, performing all the labors of the
household, bearing and nursing and rearing
children, and many of these women, scores
and scores of them have taken the wool
from the sheep, carded, spun and wove it,
and afterwards cut and made into wearing
apparel the cloth their own hands had pre-
pared for the family use, knit the stockings
mittens, etc., for every member of the
household. Who but the mother knows,
realizes or appreciates what women have
suffered who have gone into a new and un-
civilized country?
	This is not only true of Utah and the 
West, it is also true of our Pilgrim mothers
and of the early settlers of other lands. 
	The pioneer mothers of Utah have not
sat idly down with folded hands, but they
have labored with hand and brain, and
helped to make the land beautiful, and in
all the prosperity which has or will come,
they should be partakers of the benefits and
results, and share in all the privileges. The
sons of such mothers can well afford to grant
equal suffrage to women, and in the near
future when Utah receives her crown of
statehood, and women have equal part,
women will not be forgetful of the advan-
tages it will bring, nor shirk the responsi-
bility of the duties which attend upon this
high privilege. 
	There are many positions in the gift of
the people suitable for women to occupy
and which they could fill with honor and 
credit, and men need not be afraid there
will be no room for them, because there are
vast tracts of land still uncultivated to be
made fertile and beautiful for habitations,
and while earth yields grain and fruits the
sower must go forth to sow, and the reaper
to reap, and women will be sure to come to
glean, following close upon their track, for
the immutable law of Jehovah will ever re-
main in force, consequently there is no need
to fear, for men and women will work side
by side better when all conditions are equal,
and the generations to come will be better
adapted to a higher civilization than those 
that were born under the old regime of
man's political supremacy and woman's
subjection.
	But as to the subject under consideration
shall the women of Utah vote in November,
it is devoutly to be wished, that the matter
will soon be settled by proper authority so
that there may be safety, and the new state
not endangered by any one attempting
what is not legal. And as to the laws reg-
ulating voters, the fact of naturalization is
an important one and should not be neg-
lected by foreign-born women. It must be
remembered that women are to vote in the 
new state upon the same platform as men,
consequently every woman who registers 
and votes must be a native born or natural-
ized citizen of the United States. Formerly
when the franchise was exercised by the
women of this territory many women took

[Column 3]
out their naturalization papers, but of late
years we have not noticed that such has
been the case, though men have been ad-
mitted to citizenship right along. There
should be no delay in this matter, it is of
vital importance but set about it directly
and see to it that you have everything done
legally, remember one vote counts the same
as another, high or low, rich or poor.


OLD FOLKS ANNUAL EXCURSION.

	On Thursday the 11th inst., the old
folks of Salt Lake City and county made
the trip to Pleasant Grove in Union Pacific
cars kindly provided by the company for
this happy occasion. It has become a reg-
ular custom now that the “old folks” over
seventy should go somewhere every sum-
mer for an “outing” and a good time.
This is their first visit to Pleasant Grove
and it seems to have been one of the most
pleasant of all the pleasure trips the party
has ever taken. The morning was lovely
after the rain of the previous evening and
the old people were astir early, and so were
the committee who are indefatigable in
their labors to make every thing comfortable
and enjoyable for these aged veterans, who
have come to think of this excursion as a
settled thing, and to expect it and look lor-
ward with a sort of eagerness for the day to
come, from the time their last trip was
taken. To them it is indeed a festive oc-
casion, and they always look so happy,
their faces beaming with smiles.
	It is a beautiful thing to pay respect and
honor to the aged, who have borne the
burden and heat of the day and at eventide
are waiting the summons that comes to all
sooner or later. To minister comfort, to
add some little to the lonely lives of those
who are bereft of friends, and who need
heart sympathy, to greet them with smiles
and kind words which sometimes mean so
much to those whose lines have not been
cast in pleasant places, is commendable and
will certainly return to bless those who
bless.
	This Old Folks Committee and Old Folks
Choir have made quite a “hit” in the part
they have acted year after year in honoring
the veterans. It is a worthy example to
set and one which might be followed by
others if not in the self-same way, in reach-
ing forth a helping hand to the veterans
who have wrought out for their prosperity
many blessings, and made the lives of the
present generation richer, fuller, and more
complete, because of their arduous labors
and heroic self sacrifice.
	The cars containing the precious frieght
of many human souls sped gaily out of the
U. P. depot, at 8 o’clock a. m. There
were many red badges for those over
seventy, quite a number of blue ones for
eighty, and a few white ones for ninety.
Crowds of people were at the depot to see
the train pull out, and once fairly started
Bro. Wm. Foster with the Choir merrily
sang “All Aboard,” to the great delight of
the veterans; afterwards several selections
were given, the choir as is their usual way
going from one car to another.
	The train reached its designation at 10:25
and the party were most heartily welcomed
by the Pleasant Grove people, a brass
band in attendance, the Sunday School
children in line, the whole making an at-
tractive picture. The grove which is a fine


[Column 1]
one was prepared with everything needful
for the comfort of the visitors; and at the
entrance over the archway was the inscrip-
tion “Welcome and Honor to the Aged.”
There was a full committee of citizens to
attend to all the details, and young ladies to
serve the refreshments. On the platform
besides the committee of Salt Lake and
Pleasant Grove were a number of leading
cittzens of Salt Lake and Utah counties and
Apostles Brigham Young, John Henry
Smith, F. M. Lyman and H. J. Grant,
also Elders J. G. Kimball, Jos. E. Taylor,
C. W. Penrose, W. N. Dusenbury and
Mayor Bullock of Pleasant Grove and the
pioneers John Brown and Henson Walker;
many came from adjacent settlements and
the attendance as a whole was very numer-
ous; There were 1,200 over seventy, from
Salt Lake Co. alone, besides those from
Utah CO.
	The exercises of the day began by the
Old Folks choir singing “Auld Lang
Syne.” Apostle F. M. Lyman offered
prayer, the choir sang “We Shall Know,”
and Mayor Bullock delivered the address of
Welcome, after which a bounteous repast
was served in excellent style to all in the
grove, and greetings and conversation of
other days followed which is always a sig-
nificent feature of old folks pienies.
	A call for all over ninety years of age to
come to the platform was responded to by
several and it was found later on that there
were present eight persons over ninety.
Mrs. Margaret Ploutz ninety-five, who was
at Haun’s Mill‘ Mrs. Jennette Aird ninety-
six, Mrs. Sarah Free ninety-five, Mrs.
Sprague ninety-two, widow of Dr. Sprague
so well known in Utah in the early days;
Litus Davis ninety, Nancy Norrell ninety,
Mary Argent ninety-two.
	While the crowd were coming together,
the Lehi band played and the Old Folks
sang the favorite hymn composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “O My Father.” Elder
George Goddard came to the front and was
received with great applause, he stated
that Bro. C. R. Savage had originated the
movement of giving the old folks an annual
excursion, which has now been continued
twenty years. Bro. Goddard in his char-
acteristic way asked all to stand who were
with the first excursion twenty years be-
fore, and about thirty-five rose in response.
Bro. Goddard is a great favorite on these
occasions as well as in all Sunday School
movements. The Lehi band discoursed
sweet music and Apostle Brigham Young
spoke briefly to the veteran fathers and
mothers in Israel. Agnes Olsen Thomas
in sweet voice sang “Away Down on the
Swanee River.” Apostle F. M. Lyman
made a few telling remarks and stated his
belief that the old folks were increasing,
thought that “those who passed away
should be able to carry good news to the
other side and tell them how we loved and
cherished the old folks.” He believed Utah
would become remarkable for love and re-
spect to the aged. A duet was flnely ren-
dered by Misses Frampton and Swenson of
Pleasant Grove. Patriarch John Brown
contrasted the present situation with that
of 1847, when he came here with the
pioneers. At the close of this pleasant
gathering, Doxology was sung and the
benediction pronounced by Elder Jos. E.
Taylor. It is quite remarkable that these
excursions always end happily, nothing of
a serious nature ever having occurred to
mar the trannquility of the aged people, for

[Column 2]
which all feel gratitude to God for his pre-
serving care over these veterans. Great
credit is due also to the very efficient man-
agement of the able committee who never
weary of this delightful undertaking.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WHAT IS OUR POSITION TODAY.

	Allow me to ask, are not these the days
our Savior foretold should come, when He
said “In the last days the Lord will pour
out His Spirit upon all flesh.”
	Can we fail to realize this to be even so,
when we see how it has enlivened and
quickened the understanding of many, who
were endowed with faculties to understand
readily some one of the many sciences; for
instance, such as the power of steam, and
how to govern and control it to advantage;
also electricity which is another powerful
agent and needs great skill to use it safely,
and then what wonders may be performed
in bringing messages. Only think of speak-
ing by telephone to a friend forty miles or
more away, and can hear so distinctly you
can tell if it is a man or woman who is
speaking to you, and hear all they say; and
only since 1844 when the first telegram was
sent from Baltimore to Washington. Now
it is sent by cable across the ocean so quick-
ly that the death of the Czar of Russia was
here in the papers the next day, the 2nd of
Nov. and he died on the 1st of Nov. And
only think, the first steamship crossed the
ocean in 1819, not quite 77 years ago, and
will now go in eight days, or less, a distance
which took a sailing vessel 2 to 3 months to
get there. Nor are these all the wonderful
feats that have been performed in 77 years,
about the time when I first saw the light of
day, but now even at this time of life, I am
captivated and delighted by science.
	Especially by our sewing machines
which prove such a blessing, and were first
in operation in 1841, only 54 years ago.
	Then our photographs since that time I
think, yet take our shadow so accurately it
is indeed charming; besides this farming
machinery so quickly done, that one man
will do the work of five men, all is speed,
speed, until one is nearly bewildered.
	Would it not be well to stop and think,
who gave us every faculty of mind and
body we possess? and who will call us to an
account when our probation here is ended
on this earth, for to die is one of the laws
of nature, and we must go when Father
calls us home. Now it is written “God is
a spirit, and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth, and knowing
as He did, the danger we would be in at
this time when pomp and a grand display
of what the human family can do, was
uppermost in the mind of all. He has a
sacred record hid up for this fast age, a
time of great danger to the thoughtless and
simple who know not God and care less
perhaps.
	This record is a guide the same as the
mariner’s compass is to the sailor on the
ocean, showing us the upward and onward
course is the right one to save us from de-
struction. It is called the Book of Mormon,
the name of the one who has charge of the
record. Was not this record preserved for
the express purpose of teaching this genera-
tion how to prepare to meet their Lord and
King? I think so. We plainly see while
reading this history that those who love

[Column 2]
God with all their might, mind and
strength are never forgotten by Him. No
indeed, they have the same care that a
tender parent has over a loving child.
	In the First Book of Nephi, fourth verse,
he tells us, “In the beginning of the reign
of Zedekiah king of Judah many prophets
called on the people to repent or the great
city Jerusalem would be destroyed. There-
fore his father Lehi prayed earnestly to the
Lord in behalf of his people, and as he
prayed there came a pillar of fire, and
dwelt upon a rock before him, and he saw
and heard much, and because of the things
that he saw and heard, he did quake and
tremble exceedingly. Then returned to
his own house at Jerusalem and cast him-
self npon his bed being overcome by that
which he saw and heard.”
	But the Jews did mock him and would
not believe there was any danger of de-
struction. After this the Lord appeared to
him in a dream, blessing him and telling
him to take his family into the wilderness
and leave Jerusalem for it is to be destroyed.
He did so; then comes a history of his
travels and afflictions yet not so great as
those who were destroyed in the great
city.
	Please read the book and behold what
choice blessings were given to Nephi who
believed all his father had spoken, then had
the same sight himself. Then he was taught
to build a ship and take his family to a
choice land, where prosperity attended their
efforts even as he was told, saying, “If ye
will keep my commandments ye shall pros-
per in the land.” We find this promise
often repeated in this book, and never to
fail when strictly keeping the command-
ments of God our Father.
	I greatly admire the history of King Ben-
jamin as given in this book. While talking
to his people he said. “I say unto you, as
I have been suffered to spend my days in
your service, even up to this time and have
not sought gold nor silver or any manner
of riches of you. Neither have I suffered
you should be confined in dungeons, nor
that ye should make slaves of one another,
or that ye should murder, or plunder, or
steal, or commit adultery or do any man-
ner of wickedness. Bu[-] have taught you
to keep the commandments of the Lord in
all things, and even I myself have labored
with mine own hands, that I might serve
you, and that you should not be laden with
taxes and that nothing grievous should
come upon you, as ye yourselves are wit-
ness this day. Yet I do not say these things
to boast. Neither do I tell it to accuse you,
but I tell it, that ye may know that I can
answer a good conscience before God this
day. I do not desire to boast, for I have
only been in the service of God. And be-
hold, I tell it that ye may learn wisdom,
and learn when ye are in the service of
your fellow beings, ye are only in the ser-
vice of God. Book of Mosiah, 2nd chapter.
	Now I would ask, where do we find rulers
of this kind today. Yet such men must
rule and reign again, before Jesus comes to
reign. He must find a righteous people
when He comes again to earth.
	Is not this reasonable to suppose? Do
not we learn from this book the importance
of being a righteous people if we would
prosper in this land?
	We also learn from holy Writ, the
Bible, there are times and seasons for every
purpose under the sun. As you remember


[Column 1]
the angel Moroni told Joseph, when he first
saw the plates, he said, “It is not time yet
for four years to take these plates. But
meet me here once a year until the time ar-
rives.” This the prophet did and was thus
prepared for that which followed, even that
success would only follow where faithful-
ness was found, with an earnest zeal to do
right, for right, wrongs no one, you know.
	This is our firm belief, having proved it
to be even so. My first experience was at
Nauvoo, when we were driven out leaving
all our possessions behind us. Now I
would ask were we driven because we were
more righteous than they?
	No not exactly; we were trying to keep
the laws of God but were not perfect in our
lessons, accordingly our chastisement re-
sulted in our good, as it always does when
we acknowledge the hand of God in it, as
Job did in his affliction, when his wife said
curse God and die. But Job said, thou
speakest as one of the foolish women; has
He not a right to chastise as well as to bless?
	Did not Joseph our prophet teach us,
“That God is angry with none, excepting
those who will not acknowledge the hand
of God in all things?” And we always find
when we will do this there is truly a bless-
ing awaiting us.
	This we find again when a revelation was
given to Prest. B. Young on the west bank
of the Missouri River near Council Bluffs,
1847, concerning the camp of Israel in their
journeyings West. This shows they must
be organized in companies with a covenant
and promise to keep all the commandments
and statutes of the Lord our God, and the
blessing of this journey will never be for-
gotten by those who were in this company.
His words being like those of King Ben-
jamen to his people. Even that they should
be a righteous people in keeping the com-
mands God has given, acting uprightly and
just in every instance, each one bearing
their own burthens according to the abilities
God had given us, and then lend a helping
hand to the needy in times of accident or
affliction.
	This was faithfully observed, as I am a
witness, and prosperity attended our efforts
daily. Thanksgiving and songs of praise
were offered daily until we arrived safely in
the valley, nor was it forgotten after our
arrival here in 1847.
	This course was followed for ten years
prosperity attending our efforts, until we
were provided with nice comfortable homes,
good gardens and orchards, etc.
	Then we were threatened with destruction
by an army of 10,000 men, but the Lord
heard our prayers and we were saved by his
powerful hand; and why? Were we begin-
ning to become proud of our success?
	Inasmuch as this was the case surely this
army came in time to awaken us to a sense
of our duty to God, making us feel our de-
pendence upon Him.
	This precious record the Book of Mormon
shows us the danger of pride, telling us of a
people who lived in rightousness for four
generations, then pride made its appearance
which produced envy, hatred and malice,
then followed by war, until that people were
swept from the earth and became extinct;
and had it not been for twenty-four gold
plates found by the people of Lemhi, we
should have known nothing of this people
today. Here we learn a lesson from this
book, what power the tempter has upon a
proud people.
	This book warns us again and again to

[Column 2]
beware of pride. Is not this a valuable
book, and agrees with Holy writ, the Bible
which says "Pride comes before destruction
and a haughty spirit before a fall." Let us
then beware of pride, is the desire of,
ZION'S CONVERT.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 23rd, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS ANTHONY AND MISS SHAW.

[Extracts from California Notes.]

	"Anna Shaw captured the town." Busi-
ness men of notoriously conservative views,
who came to sneer, remained to applaud
her witty utterances, and came, and came
again. Yea, verily, Anna Howard Shaw,
we need thee, and must have thee to stump
the State for the campaign.
	The universal appreciation of Miss Shaw,
the honors tendered to her and dear "Aunt
Susan" in the shape of a banquet by the
Unitarian Club (consisting of prominent
and influential male citizens), and the offi-
cial action of the Board of Education in
ordering the schools closed at noon in order
to enable the teachers to hear Miss Anthony
(an unprecedented and most noteworthy
event in the history of the movement, in
my humble opinion), show that we are not
so unenlightened, after all; and when in ad-
dition Miss Anthony has done us the honor
to declare publicly that the papers of our
Pacific Coast women were equal if not su-
perior to any she had ever listened to, we
have reason to feel proud of our success,
and to hope that we may be permanently
delivered out of the slough of unenlighten-
ment by the triumph of our suffrage amend-
ment next fall.
	For which the petitioners do humbly
pray!
	These friends came to San Jose immedi-
ately after making the Joachinite trip.
Common mortals, in like conditions, pray
only to be let alone till sleep and solitude
bring recuperation; but this notable pair of
strong-minded individuals appeared quite
unconscious of fatigue at the reception Sat-
urday evening, June 8, to which Mrs.
Goodrich issued a general invitation through
the daily papers. On Sunday, the 9th,
Miss Shaw preached in the Santa Clara M.
E. Church in the morning, and in San Jose
at 3:30 p. m., in the First M. E. Church,
the largest Protestant church in the city, to
an immense audience, many staying during
the entire service, while hundreds were un-
able to get in. Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress in the evening to a crowded house in
the Unitarian Church, from which it is
readily to be seen that Sunday was not a
day of rest for our visitors; but all the same
they met their engagement at the State
Normal School at 8:40 Monday morning,
and were in happiest vein as they spoke to
that concourse of seven hundred prospective
teachers. It was beautiful to note the quick
response accorded by the youthful audience
to the speakers' good points. One can not
but be hopeful that seed sown in such cul-
tivated soil must bring forth abundantly.
After the speeches, the pupils rendered the
"Star Spangled Banner" and other patriotic
songs in fine voice and form, thus bringing
to a fitting close a most inspiring hour.


MRS. EMMA SMITH DEVOE has been
doing really remarkable work as an organizer
and raiser of equal rights funds in the West.


MRS. DIGGS OF KANSAS.

[Synopsis of address, National Convention
of Women, Washington, D. C.]

	It is a long way from the gorilla to the
gentleman. It is a long, long way from
the primal government to the republic.
	That persistent energy in nature which
has compelled a continuous though undula-
ting development of man and his govern-
ments has at last brought the civilized world
to a consensus of belief that a republic, a
democracy, a State in which the need and
the desires of the people constitute the
code of conduct is the best, the wisest and
the enduring form of government. Along
the way of progress from the gorilla to the
gentleman, and from the tribal to the re-
public, enough data have been gathered to
warrant the scientific declaration that all
active, productive, enduring life is dual.
Each rounded unit of life is made up of
hemispheres, each having separate functions,
each having distinctive work to do. In the
human duality it is a man’s part in the
work of life to clear the way, to overcome
obstacles and to lay foundations. It belongs
to man with his strong right arm to do
pioneering of every sort. To the other half
of the human duality belongs the later work;
woman’s work is supplemental. Woman
continues and completes the edifice of which
man has laid the foundation. At the heart
of that much-bemouthed phrase, “The
home is woman’s sphere,” lies the whole
great truth. It is woman’s part to make
and mold the home.
	The heaven of all human longing, the
canopy and shield of human life and human
endeavor, the school of human character,
the educator and conservator of social order,
the very bulwark and the vital breath of
human government is the wise, pure, sweet
home. Without the light that gleams from
wholesome hearthfires social order gropes
and fails. Without the character bred in
homes, there can be no true citizenship.
Without the home there can be no republic.
	What must a republic be that it shall
abide and endure? A republic can but be
the aggregation of its smaller epitomes—the
homes which evolve the character of its in-
dividual factors. A republic must be the
reflector of all social life. Its soul and its
essence, its vital breath must partake of the
nature of full-orbed human life. It must be
made up of the dual parts which, united,
constitute a home atmosphere, home con-
ditions, and safe, sweet home environments.
	Man alone cannot create and maintain
such a republic any more than he can create
and complete a home. It is not that man is
not “as good,” as just and as wise as wo-
men in his way; they simply have their
part in life to play, and it is not man’s part.
A woman’s republic might be just like a
man’s republic, but it would be
no nearer a real republic; it would violate
nature’s laws just the same it
would not have the same faults, but it
would have fatal faults just the same.
	For 6,000 years, and who knows how
much longer, men have been pioneering
along with governments, clearing the ob-
stacles, paving the way for the republic.
For a hundred years have men been play-
ing republic on North American soil. For
a sturdy, striving century man—the human
demi-sphere—has been trying in this re-
public to do the whole work of a full hu-
man orb. Not content with his natural


part of the work, foundation building, man
has been laboriously, not to whisper ludi-
crously, trying to do the work of his other
human half. He has been piling founda-
tion stones up to the height of the dome
and has called his work a complete edifice.
Dead failure. Proof, vide “Congressional
Record,” February 14, 1895, page 2415,
Hon. J. Proctor Knott’s letter. True,
every word of it.

		THE END OF HIS ROPE.
	With the boundless resources of a glorious
contingent, man alone, where God said it
was not good for him to be, has brought
this republic to to its present stress. Man
has done his work as well as in his nature
he knew how to do it, but he is now at his
wit’s end; he has reached the end of his
rope. Oh, we have had a republic which
has been splendidly fathered, but it hasn’t
been mothered, and that’s what’s the mat-
ter with it to-day.
	Nature’s fundamental law has been set
aside. The inexorable law of the Almighty
has been abrogated. One of the two fac-
tors which should have been employed, has
been unused. Man’s work has been done,
woman’s work left undone. We are suf-
fering the penalty of outraged natural law.
God put men and women in the same world
together that they conjointly might work
out a high and holy outcome here on earth.
	Had the God of the universe intended
that men should work alone in a republic he
would probably have placed him on this
earth a full-orbed sufficiency and women
would have been placed on some other
planet.
	We shall not have a full-orbed, enduring
republic until we have woman nature ex-
pressed actively, intelligently, forcibly at
the ballot box. Then, in time, not in a day
or year, it was a long way from the gorilla
to the gentleman, woman as the conservator
of human life, will impress her nature on
the republic. Woman’s part in the repub-
lic will be on the Ways and Means com-
mittee, to sustain and provide for human
life. This committee will supersede the
committee on War and Navy appropriations.
Woman will provide for life, and man will
no more provide for death, via cannon, shot
and shell. With woman’s advent in the
republic the glory of the bayonet here will
pale, woman will transfer that halo to the
brow of moral heroes.
	To make home conditions for each and
every child born in the republic, to place
the republic upon the safe, sure foundation
of healthy, happy homes, to shatter the
shackles of industrial slaves, to set the
wheels spinning on toward that good time
when the constant strife for shelter and
bread shall not dwarf the soul, to uplift to
a plane that shall permit the uufoldment of
all that is sweetest, truest and  best in the
lives of the children of God, this is woman's
part in the republic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REV. JEANETTE OLMSTEAD, of Gusta-
vus, O., and Rev. Arthu Ferris, of Scran-
ton, Pa., were married on June 12th, at the
residence of Drs. V. L. and E. T. Gilchrist,
Ashtabnla, O. Both bride and groom are pas-
tors of Congregational churches. They were
married by Rev. S. B. Hershey, pastor of
the local Congregational church. Miss Olm-
stead has preached acceptably for three years
at Gustavus, and has been active in suffrage
and temperance work.—Ex.


THE EVOLUTION OF SUFFRAGE.
BY ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.
	The theory that “manhood suffrage” is
based on manhood strength,” and that every
voter must be a possible soldier is a very
plausible theory and commands careful con-
sideration, owing to the brilliant array of
names pledged to its support. One must
face this hypothesis as Copernicus con-
fronted the popular belief that the earth is
a stationary monarch, around which the
obsequious sun revolves as a satellite.
What may be called the “physical force
theory” of government, is a fallacy as im-
mensely widespread, as profoundly rooted
in popular prejudice, and as strongly main-
tained by those whose religious and politi-
cal systems depend upon it, as was the
Ptolemaic system of the universe.
	But fallacies are doomed to fail, and this
one is no exception to the rule. It is an
easily exploded error. The fine art of
critical examination of history is still in its
merest infancy. Modern man has taken a
superficial survey of the records of the past;
he has noticed that warriors have played an
important and conspicuous part in society’s
business, that warriors are chiefly of the
male sex, that, in Christendom, men both
vote and fight, and that, in Christendom,
women neither vote nor fight, and he has
jumped to the conclusion that voting is a
privilege born of fighting. Hence, the
women who credulously accept such state-
ment of facts and hasty conclusion, perse-
veringly argue that government is upheld
by physical force, and, consequently, “weak
woman” can have no part in it.
	Now, I believe that every fair-minded,
dispassionate person, who seeks, not to
prove herself on the winning side, but
simply to become a discoverer of truth,
may easily herself detect the falsity of such
theory of government. In the first place,
the very meaning of the word refutes such
an hypothesis; in the second, all human
history gives it denial in the third, every
family’s government demonstrates that
brute compulsion is a failuse and, in the
fourth place, each individual knows that it
is neither physical force nor the threat or
fear of physical force which governs her
actions. To govern is merely “to guide.”
In its essence, it is a purely voluntary ac-
ceptance of a leader, by one or by many,
whose affectionate trust is given to the per-
son or persons who seem to the governed to
be naturally fiitted for governing. As soon
as government passes out of this mutual
willingness between governors and gov-
erned it becomes war, and war is pure
chaos, so far as the objects of government
are concerned. The only good thing which
the human race has ever gained through
war is its present horror and detestation of
war. It has cost us millions of precious
lives, rivers of blood and mountains of
woes heaped upon woe, to purchase the
lesson that everything attempted by methods
of war may be more quickly, economically,
sensibly and happily won by the use of
reason.
	The Declaration of Rights, published by
our Continental Congress in 1774, affirms
that “The foundation of all free govern-
ment is a right in the people to participate
in their legislative council.” To this, the
Declaration of Independence,in 1776, added
the affirmation that no government is just
unless it derives its powers from the con-
sent of the governed and, when the time
came to publish our national Constitution,
its corner-stone proclaimed that “We, the
people of the United States,” found our
government upon justice, justice having
been previously defined in the principles
announced in the two declarations above
referred to.
	It is true that those principles, established
for us by a few lofty souls, were imperfectly
understood by the masses, while all the
powers and principalities of despotism
among us had a selfish motive for resisting
them to the bitter end. Behind us lay
thousands of years of despotic rule, which
had generated increasing arrogance, pride
and greed for power among those privileged
to wield authority over their fellows, and
which had ingrained habits of servility,
weakness and timidity among those sub-
jected to authority. On the side of the
ruling class reigned utter contempt for the
capacity of “the people” they were al-
luded to, even by historians,as “the scum,”
and it was deemed impossible to improve
their condition. Beside this general con-
tempt among the “nobility” for the masses
special class contempt prevailed wherever
one class held legal power over another.1
The clergy ruled the laity despotically, and
disdained to give them any voice in such
government; husbands ruled wives, simi-
larly, and all men similarly made and tried
to enforce laws upon all women.
	When our ancestors openly and solemnly
repudiated every form of government based
on a pretendedly “divine right,” and an-
nounced that, henceforward, we as a people,
would accept no right of government, save
self-government, the long battle between
Might and Right began. Far from won-
dering that it took seventy-four years to
eliminate human slavery from among a
people professing our principles, and that
Article 1 of our Constitutional Amend-
ments is still neither put in practice nor
even understood, and that the male people
are still so stupid as not to see they have no
just right to rule female people without
their ballot-given consent, we ought to
congratulate ourselves that the just cause
of self-government has made even such
progress as it has, in face of the tremen-
dous opposition, waged during the past
hundred and twenty years by despotisms of
every kind. Every inch of advance along
the line of true self-government by the
people, has been won at the cost of perse-
verance unto death, against terrible odd.
	The prophets of evil (the Cassandras of
conservatism) began immediately to fill the
air with clamorous protests against every
measure proposed in the interests of freedom
for the people. Vested Privilege shrieked
that religion would disappear and morality
decay, unless an established church were
given power by the State to compel the
people to accept dogmas—and to pay tithes.
Vested Privilege screamed that civilization
would die if slaves were not forced to the
drudgery that masters hated, and kept in
obedience by fear of blood-hounds and the
crack of a whip. And now Vested Privilege
is again howling that the family will disin-
tegrate and the home tumble into ruins; if
man should publicly recognize woman as
entitled to a vote in her government!
	O, ye of little faith! If you cannot be-
lieve that fidelity to just principles will pro-
duce good fruit, look at the demonstration
which all past human history affords of
this truth. By actual example it is proven


that, true civilization grows only as liberty,
and self-government grows that true re-
ligion flourishes and morality is pure only
where all are equally free; and that the
noblest specimens of both family and State
are found only when and where women
are least subjected to men, and are strug-
gling to uphold their right to perform their
duty as responsible citizens. Politics is
simply the joint business of those who con-
stitute the state. It is because the State is
but an expanded family that its interests
suffer, and must suffer, when the feminine
members of the expanded family close their
eyes, ears, heart and mind to the evils
arising through their own selfish apathy to-
ward the common weal.
	Over and over again history teaches this
lesson:—the same rule that makes for the
righteousness and prosperity of a family,
makes for the good of the State. Where
equity is established for all where all are
nterested, actively, in the happiness of all
where each allows the other the liberty
each prizes for him or for herself where
all are unselfishly willing to take turn in
serving as guides to those who want direc-
tion, but where no one strives to dominate
others by force,—there the conditions are
perfect for the highest human develop-
ment of both family and State.
	Whatever superficial readers of the past
may assert, every profound student of
history wilt find that no people on the face
of the earth ever rose to its “highest
civilization,” in “periods when women
were the slaves of men, when children were
the property of parents, when infanticide
was universal, when labor was despised,
and when there were no 'rights' natural,
or acquired, except for the warrior and the
patrician.”
	What is “civilization?” It is a social
condition based wholly on a life which is
opposed to militancy.
	To be civil is to be kind, gentle, courteous,
considerate of others, rendering unto them
the justice we wish them to give to our-
selves. Civilization is the state of being
refined in manners and of being free from 
the grossness of savage life.


32    			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Relief Society Organized.
West Layton, July 12th.
	Editor Women’s Exponent:—Thinking
that it might be of some interest for you to
know that on the 13th of June, President
Susan Grant of the Davis Stake with her
counselors, also of the Stake Presidency
Hiram Grant and Joseph Clark organized
a Relief Society with the following named
officers:
	Mrs. Virginia F. Major, President; Mrs.
Emma Corbridge, First Counselor; Mrs.
Mary A. Egbert, Second Counselor; Mrs.
Antinett Dibble, Treasurer, and Mrs. Mary
Roberts, Secretary,
	Wishing you success, I remain yours truly,
							V. F. Major.


MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, in her recent
report as National Superintendent of Peace
and Arbitration work in the W. C. T. U.,
quotes Victor Hugo’s prediction that war-
fare would cease in the twentieth centnry,
and adds: “It will not be long ere the peo-
ple of the world will regard the wars of the
present day with the same feelings as we
now regard the gladiatorial combats and
other barbarities of former ages.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS E.U. Yates sailed for England
early in June and will be gone until Sep-
tember.
	THE University of Chicago is about to
publish a bi-monthly, called the American
Journal of Sociology. Professor Albion W.
Small, assisted by the faculty of the social
science department, will have charge.	
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET was re-elected
president of the British Woman’s Temper-
ance Union. Lady Somerset and Miss
Willard have both conditionally accepted
invitations to speak before the fifth meeting
of the great Anti-alcohol Congress, to be
held in Basle, Switzerland, August 20-22.
	Two women of Cripple Creek, Colorado,
were recently called to act on a jury in a
case where a woman was defendant. The
fact that the mixed jury were only out
five minutes when they brought in a ver-
dict of guilty shows that the presence of
women in the jury box will not necessarily
delay matters or prevent justice being done.
	In Pennsylvania another of the noiseless
steps of progress toward’s woman’s enfran-
chisement has been taken. For the first
time the mothers of that State have this
week secured the equal costody and control
of their own children. Half a million
mothers have now, in the Keystone State,
a right still denied by our Legislature to
the women of Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Julia B. Nelson says: “Woman
does not want the earth, but neither will
she be satisfied with the use of a third of it;
she wants ‘the undivided half!’ Gentlemen
may cry ‘Peace! Peace!’ but there will be
no peace until she has a clear title to that
which her Heavenly Father bequeathed to
her. His last will and testament has been
set aside through many dark ages, but she
now has the will in her possession, is able 
to read it, and bases her claim to joint title
in the ownership of the earth on that sec-
tion of the will found in the first chapter of
Genesis 26-28 inclusive.’’
	The Union Signal will revert to a cus-
tom of former years, and omit two issues in
midsummer. The last issue before the
holiday, July 11, will be the special world’s
W. C. T. U. number, containing full ac-
counts of the great London meeting and
the “doings” of the white ribbon party on
the continent. Then says the Union Sig-
nal:
	Editors, proof readers, compositors and every-
one connected with the paper will hie away on
the first train or boat to a cool, quiet spot, and
spend the two weeks conscientiously seeking re-
newed ability for their various arduous tasks.


MRS. HORNE’S VISIT TO IDAHO.

	Editor Exponent:—The summer visit of
Sister M. I. Horne to her daughter, Mrs.
George Spencer the past month, has been
made a source of interest and profit to the
Relief Society of this Stake.
	It was at the request of our worthy Pres-
dent, J. P. Lindsay, that our beloved Sis-
ter consented to hold two meetings in Paris,
which were well attended considering the
short notice given.
	Sister Lindsay made a few appropriate
remarks before introducing our Sister, who
was listened to with great attention. Sub-


jects presented were, the necessity of fully
sensing the responsibility that rested upon
us, and the obligations we were under as
Saints, and as members of this Church, in
order that we obtain the reward of the faith-
ful. The responsibility of motherhood in
training children. Observing the Sabbath
day. Spoke also upon the life and charac-
ter and teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The last named subject delivered
as it was by one personally acquainted
with the Prophet, though familiar as house-
hold words to President Lindsay and some
others in the congregation, was to all in-
tensely interesting and soul inspiring, and
calculated to strengthen our faith, confirm
our hopes and lead us onward.
	The question of Woman’s Suffrage
though not as familiar as the latter subject,
was listened to with the greatest attention
and interest, and has awakened thought
and reflection that cannot fail to produce
good results. It is a subject almost new to
many of our Sisters, and who have not
fully comprehended its importance, and the
powers and privileges the franchise would
be likely to confer; but being connected
with a young and progressive state, we
hope to fall in line with Wyoming, Colorado
and Utah in the Woman’s Suffrage
movement, and secure every advantage
that can be obtained by equality at the
ballot box, in the schools, colleges, and in
every way and place where woman’s in-
fluence can be expected to better her social
condition, and that of humanity in general.
Your Sister in the Gospel, L. M. Hart.
	BLOOMINGTON, Idaho, July 3, 1895.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.
R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
	Woman's Co-operative Inst'
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro. Stable


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights  of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

VOL. 24.	SALT CAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1, 1895. No. 5.


CONTENTS:
	The Family Kingdom—S. W. Richards. In
Rural England—A Story. Notes And News.
Foreign Letter—L. Kimball-Pond. Letter From
Far Off Mexico—S. E. Russell. R. S. Reports.
Golden Wedding—Amy A. Thomas. The
Economy Of Women—R. S. D. Extracts From
A Decade Of Egyptology.
	EDITORIAL:—Visit To Alaska. Women Vot-
ers.
	POETRY: — Wedding Bells—Ruby Lamont.
Woman’s Cause—M. C. Perinock The Voice Of
The Mountains—E. B. W.


WEDDING BELLS. ! In my lap your letter lies.
Sister, Sister! Mists arise
To my vision tears are falling
On their crystals Time is calling,
Beck’ning with a trembling hand
Backward over Mem’ry’s land.
	Dear, I see a picture there,
Bright and sacred, pure and rare!
Shall I tell it? If my tearsJ
Fall upon the fading years
Do not blame me for I see
Such a fairy, Sweet, in thee!
Rosy dimples, rosy lips,
Roses to thy finger-tips;
Rosy-tinted all thy dreams!
Sunlight in thy blue eye gleams,
Sunlight nestles in thy hair,—
Sunlight roses everywhere
Ah, can e’er my heart forget
	That our babe was sister’s Det?
Has our birdling learned to soar
Field and hill and valley o’er?
Can she safely leave the nest?
Darling sister, is it best?
	Ah, I know your heart will say
That e’en brighter beams today!
Wealth he brings the lover bold ,:i
Who hath won thee pearls and gold
Deck thy fairy boat of Hope;
Benedictine skies but ope
To pour down, in sun or show'er,
Wealth of soul each passing hour	
Shall be radiant be it so—
May’st thou never taste of woe!
	He is true then trust him, Sweet
Glories sparkle at thy feet,
Laid there by his tender hand'
May he always understand,
Love and bless thee may your life
As fond husband, kind, true wife,
Glide adown the stream of time
Through a calm and sunny clime,
Peaceful, glorious in your trust
That each heart is true and just
He is noble trust him, dear,
He will love thee, bless and cheer
Through each shadow that may fall'.
Soft or dark all, overall
Let the light of love descend
Rainbow-tinted to the end!

[Column 2]
	Will he fa[-]l thee? Deem not so;
But, my darling, while we go
Treading here the dust of earth,
Shadows startle storms and dearth
Shake our souls then while you live
	Truest wisdom ’tis to give
Of the deep gifts of thine heart
Still to Heav’n the fondest part:-! 
Trust Him best who dwells above,
Eternal God of Truth and Love!
So shall ye, from youth to age,
Read an ever bright’ning page,
Love shall fonder, happier grow,
Warm as sunshine, pure as snow:
Blessings on thy lov’d and thee
We will plead eternally:
We who loved will love thee still,
Wander wheresoe’er you will.
Dear to us the past Shall be, 
Sacred when we think of thee
To the end, do not forget,
Thou shalt. still be—“sister’s pet.”
RUBY LAMONT.’


[Column 1]
THE FAMILY KINGDOM.
	It is easy for some to fall in love with
pretty faces, with speaking sparkling eyes
that flash the inspiration of the soul, and
kindle into fires unquenchable easy to love
the beauty of dress, and the fascinating
manners that captivate and fill with delight
and admiration the beholder, until filled
with desire to possess such loveliness but
who of all those thus enamored stop to seri-
ously contemplate the arduous labors, the
responsible duties that attach, and must be
assumed by those who seek to make these
pleasures all their own? Who is it that
seeks to fathom the depths of obligations
accepted by assuming family ties, patriarchal
duties, kingly powers, and priestly admin-
stration of spiritualities. Who can say
that they love these more dearly than all
the charms of this life, or even life itself,
outside of those desirable and perpetual ac-
quisitions,—those lasting endowments.
	The family is the foundation of kingdom,
of eternal dominion, to those who rear the
structure upon eternal principles, and make
truth and righteousness, the cement with
which to bind its rising walls. Walls con-
structed of this material will never crumble
nor decay. Perpetuity is sought after by
the wise and skillful builder, and it can be
found only when reared after the pattern of
that kingdom which is an everlasting king-
dom, that which shall never pass away.
it is written that all other kingdoms shall
be broken in pieces.
	It requires, and we should seek for the
most enduring element with which to build
a house that is to be “eternal in the
heavens.” In faith, hope and charity, it is
found these three we are told shall abide
when others shall have passed away, and
the greatest of these is charity, which is
the love of God. Here then we find that
love is the most enduring element of an
everlasting or future kingdom, is the main
ingredient that must be wrought into the
entire structure to preserve it from decay.
	Where shall this love begin its mighty

[Column 2]
mark? In the blending of two living souls,
who as Father and Mother, are to be the
foundation of the building to be reared.
Here love’s cementing power is felt, and
twain become as one.
	Seldom if ever will two agree to walk
the journey of life together, as one, in the
absence of love that love which demands
the sacrifice of self to another, and without
which it cannot be done.  In love the con-
tract is made, and by love’s sacrifice alone
can it be preserved.  In all the intent, pur-
pose and object of the union, that oneness
contemplated must be preserved to realize
the highest results attainable both for those
united, and the pastertiy to whom shall be-
transmitted the virtues, characteristics and
attributes of a worthy parentage.
	Yet how frail and feeble the texture of
the material or cord that binds.  How
trifling that circumstance which sometimes
and perhaps with some oft-times tests its
strength, and disunites enough for the
enemy, discord, to enter where harmony,
should reign, and possibly wreck the hopes
that faith with works had reared.  How
subtle and insidious are the efforts of love’s
enemy to snap the cord if possible if not,
to weaken its force by sowing the seeds of
discord and strife, creating division in ways
least suspected oft-times, so that the whole
structure becomes tainted with poisonous
deadening hate, with which is made perish-
able the very foundation, before the walls
of childhood’s birth appear as progress in1
the kingdom’s rearing.
	Contemplate as one may the results of a
training from childhood to old age of one
who never heard with father and mother,
one word ot discord, who never saw the
least variance or disagreement with them
but whose very act and word proclaimed
unmistakably that love’s strong band was
never weakened, but strengthened by the
trials, sufferings, and adversities, of life.
What a lesson of example it would be for
the rising generation to follow,  and of
whom it might justly be required that honor
be given to father and mother, as unto God.
	How different from this, and what a
world of sorrow is experienced by children
when parents become indifferent to. them
and indulge in an austere, harsh, or petu-
lant manner ol speaking and acting towards
them and in this way mar if not entirely
destroy that perfect intimacy and union of
feeling that should always exist between
them All such harsh treatment, fault-,
finding, scolding and beating as is some-
times indulged in, is incompatible with
that love which parents should have, and
are in duty bound to cherish for the child.
The happiness of both parent and child
would be greatly promoted by a vigorous
exercise of that primitive faculty of the
mind, which cultivates the most perfect'im
timacy and union between them, consistent
with the law of love.
	That law in the kingdom’s discipline, is
the law of obedience, and children. reared
under such paternal influence would. be
imbued with such a spirit of obedience to
parents, that disobedience the result of
alienation and disagreement which fill the


[Column 1]
soul devoid  of  love,   would  be  banished
from the family circle and kingdom. Earthly
parents know  the  willing  and  obedient
child has love for them, and they love that
child in return, even as God recognizes our
love for Him only  in  the  keeping  of  his
commandments.
    Thus under the influence of this cement-
ing power the kingdom of  the  righteous
should be reared,  extending  from  parents
to children through all the  generations  to
come.
    Thus man in  filling the  measure  of  his
creation, by observing the laws  thereof  as
appointed unto him by his Heavenly Father,
lays a foundation here for  a  kingdom  that
shall be everlasting, and as such  become a
a part  of God’s kingdom.   All  men  who
obtain eternal life and celestial glory, are to
be Kings and  Priests  unto  God,   ruling
over their own kingdom  with  all  priestly
endowments by which it may  be  sanctified
and made meet for the Master’s use.
    Death has no power to rob  any  such  of
the products of a righteous life,  or interfere,
but for a moment as it  were,  with  eternal
increase and development.    If it had, then
death might have a  sting,   and  the  grave
might claim victory.   To   the  righteous
man who builds his family  kingdom in ac-
cord with the law of God,  death  is  only a
moment’s rest to him.    He awakes in the
morning of the resurrection to that  endless
day of perfect life which he has secured by
keeping the law of God,  which law is per-
fect, redeeming the soul of man  from death
and all its consequences  as  though  it had
never been.
    Thus man is  redeemed  and  restored to
the inheritance of all that  is of his Father’s
kingdom, as though he had never separated
from it; all of glory, of kingdom, dominion,
principalities and powers that are  eternal in
the heavens.   Man is to  be  like  God, and
those to whom he  is,  and  may  become
father, be to  him an  everlasting  kingdom
glory of and increase for ever more.
			       S.  W.  RICHARDS.

	IN RURAL ENGLAND.
			XLVI.
    ALTHOUGH Clair Hilliard’s health was
delicate, he was a  very interesting acquisi-
tion to the family at  ROSEWOOD for so Sid-
ney Barrington had named the residence of
the Harrison’s and it passed current; Sidney
and Clair were like two  brothers  who had
met again after   a   long  separation.    The
children were  a never-failing  source  of
pleasure and delight, and  the  family were
united  in  anticipating  the  future    of the
children. Anna’s children  were  always
mentioned in connection with those at home
and in all the numerous plans Edward and
Anna Walton were included.    Conway was
always spoken  of  as a  prospective  Doctor,
and all  his studies   had  been  sort  of  pre-
paratory.
    Clair's  health improved  in   the  genial
atmosphere  and  he undertook of  his own
accord to teach the children music, and the
winters  he  passed  with  his  cousin  and
family were very happy  ones  for them all.
Indeed Jane who had been much depressed
when Clair first came,  grew quite  hopeful
of his ultimate recovery.    He had  told her
at  first  that  he  should   never  return  to
England, and that he wished his boy trained
to become useful in life, and not to grow up
with the  impression that  wealth and posi-

[Column 2]
tion would insure happiness.    He desired
just such  discipline as  she had  given her
own son Conway, and he had moreover im-
plied that she was to keep  him with her in
case he did not recover.
   About two years after his return to America
news was received  that his affairs  were in
bad shape—one of  his  solicitors  had died
and the  firm had  been  dissolved,  and he
was obliged to set sail immediately—a fear-
ful foreboding possessed  Jane Harrison, do
what she would she could  not rid herself of
it, and when she received   the  news of  his
arrival at Hilliard Castle,she could scarcely
credit it.    Finally   he  wrote  that  having
wound up his  business for  the present sat-
isfactorily he was going to return very soon,
but  previous  to  coming  home  he  would
visit Italy  in  reference to  some important
matters, and also because  he wished  to see
his dear country once more.   Jane felt that
she should  have this  favorite  relative and
friend with  her again  very soon, her fears
were dispelled;  the  Major too  had  always
been very fond of  him, and they rejoiced in
anticipation of his  coming  to  remain per-
manently.    Little Edward looked  forward
with  eager  expectation and counted  over
and over the  gifts he. should  have to dis-
tribute to his cousins  and  playmates when
his father would be at  home again.
    One evening, some  weeks after,  the Ma-
jor come in from the  city, bringing letters,
and all gathered round  to  hear the news of
the absent one so dearly loved.   The letter
was  from  Maitland  (young Lord Walton)
and bore the Italian post mark.   Jane knew
the hand writing well and feared the worst;
for she  knew  Clair  would  write his  own
letters while he had the strength.   Maitland
was sorely stricken and  his words  were few,
“your cousin Clair Hilliard died at Valdag-
no,   suddenly,   of heart-failure,  without a
word: until  I can  reach England, I know
nothing of his  affairs,  keep  his  son until
you are instructed,’’signed “Maitland Wal-
ton” and adding as a postscript “my wife is
here with me we shall attend to  all details,
Clair will be buried beside his father.” 
    Mrs.  Harrison  was  so  overcome  with
grief and horror at  this  news, she found it
impossible  to speak  for some  hours,  her
husband and Sidney though thoroughly
broken up  with the sad affair,  did  all  in
their power to soothe and alleviate her men-
tal distress, giving her such comfort as was
possible;  the  children  were  not  informed
that night and indeed  only  Conway  was
told for a day or two after.   Mrs. Harrison
enlightened Edward by degrees,  making
him understand  how careful  he must be to
do whatever his father had wished and as-
suring him  that  Sidney  as well  as Uncle
Robert would take care  of his future.   In
fact Mr. Barrington  was already  teaching
him and intended preparing  him for school
or a private tutor.   The  boy  did not  real-
ize his loss, and as children do,soon regain-
ed his wonted cheerfulness.   Mrs. Harrison
true to her nature, endured  this  trying or-
deal with  the  greatest  heroism, after  the
first  severe  nervous  shock.   She  roused 
herself to the occasion and  awaited further
news,  of  the circumstances. Some  days
elapsed and no letters  came  and as she felt
there might  be  some   time  before a  mail
would  arrive;  and  as  the  ship  that  had
brought  the letters  was  to  sail  soon  for
England,  she  consulted  her husband  upon
the advisability  of Sidney’s going over and
looking  personally   into   matters.   The
Major consented  to  the  arrangement and

[Column 3]
Sidney made no  objection,  but wanted the
opinion of  his uncle in reference to what he
should do on reaching England—of course
the only thing  was  to act  according to  his
own good  judgment, and the  best  counsel
he could obtain  from men  of  standing and
recognized judicial ability.
      “You will have no such forbodings when
I set sail as  when  your cousin Clair went,
my dear aunt,” said  Sidney  Barringten,
when leaving  Rosewood, “you know how
implicitly I trust  in an  over-ruling  Provi-
dence, and  the faith we  have  is  our sup-
port whatever trials  await us.” “I have
great confidence in your faith and trust sus-
taining  you at  all  times, yet  I am aware
you will have  difficulties  to  encounter of
various kinds, your  authority to  act in be-
half  of Clair’s son  in  any  way  will be
questioned, and as you know Anna’s child-
ren  had some share  in the  estate through
the mother, and  we cannot  tell what Mait-
land may do, nor what he has already done
even,” Mrs. Harrison replied. “You will
proceed with great caution  I am sure, and
do nothing except under advisement, these
English barristers are   very shrewd and far-
seeing,  not  like  our  young  lawyers   in
America;  I wish it were  possible for me to
go with you, but, as you know, affairs here
demand my personal supervision,” said his
uncle to the nephew.   Having  said  good-
bye to the children and his aunt,  his uncle
accompanied   him  to  the  sea-side  and
lingered until he saw him on  board, giving
him many injunctions at  parting.   He had
no misgivings about  Sidney, he was a man
to be trusted anywhere with  the most im-
portant matters, and  when reaching home
he remarked to his wife, “we can rest con-
tent  Jane  leaving  all  these  affairs    of
property  and  settlements  to  Sidney  who
will do  right  whatever others may do, he
will not be swerved  by  any man’s opinion
from that which he deemsjust and equitable,
but English law and  justice are  slow,  and
we shall have  to wait the Court’s decision,
unless there should be a will found, which I
think  quite probable  considering Clair’s
presentiments concerning himself.” 
     “I hope  so, certainly, for  all  our sakes,
but especially for little Edward when I re-
call my uncle’s pride  of family and of an-
cestry,  and  think what  has  come  to  the
Hilliard race, I feel a terrible  blow has fal-
len upon his descendants;  Anna  gone and
now  Clair,  by  the by,  Elvira  who used
to serve at  the  castle  (was  there  when I
came in fact) was here the  other day and I
told her  of Clair’s death; she reminded me
of  the  superstition,  which  was  current
among the servants  of  mysterious appear-
ances, and warnings,  you remember how it
affected cousin Anna.” 
     “No, Jane, I never heard  it  before,  and
don’t believe in these  noises and warnings
at all,  but I must say  there  has been some
very peculiar phases of family  life  in the
last few years, since your advent in the old
castle for instance.  Elvira whom you speak
of,  did she marry  Harry  Walton about the
time Anna died?   He was a  good soldier,
fought bravely, I am glad she did so well.” 
     “Elvira was  very  faithful, never joined
Mrs.  Burke   in   her   rebellion    against 
authority, it  was sort  of hard  for  the ser-
vants  to  recognize  my  supervision,  they
had been used only to Burke, and were not
willing  to  submit  to  my  jurisdiction:  I
wonder  if Mrs. Burke  is  still  there;  we
shall know from Sidney all details undoubt-
edly, he will feel it a duty to itemize every-
thing.”


“I shall wait with impatience his first
letter, have you any intuitions Jane, for
you seem wonderfully gifted in bringing to
pass what you see beforehand, and albeit I
am not superstitious. I believe in your dis-
cernment, call it by what name you may,
but tell me really, will Sidney arrive safe?
Will he be successful in his undertaking?”
	“You must wait Robert, you ask too
much at once, I have great faith that Sid-
ney will succeed in accomplishing good for
Edward, but in what way I cannot tell.
Perhaps I may know something of his do-
ing s when he lands in England, at present
he has scarcely sailed out of harbor.”
	‘‘That is true Jane, but you have such
clear insight into things, a sort of prophetic
inspiration, it gives you strong mentality,
personal powers, you have inherited it
doubtless, from your antecedants, I hope
you'll bestow a little of this power upon
your offspring it must be a great factor in
your life, to know what is coming before-
hand, as you did about me, when I was ex-
pecting death at the hands of savages.”
	‘‘Robert, don't be sarcastic, it is some-
thing I never desired, and besides it is very
troublesome now and again, people think
you are queer to say the least, but one can’t
get rid of these curious manifestations. I
often see the old castle in vision as ’twere,
and hear the winds sighing as they used to
do in the park. But here comes the child-
ren for a frolic let us dismiss these gloomy
fancies, and whether we get justice or not
at the Courts, we may be just as happy, we
shall never want, nor our children.”
	‘‘No, not that, but you know Jane, the
the war has swallowed up our little fortune,
and Sidney has not even a “living” like a
Church of England preacher. We could do
with some of your uncle’s means, we shall
have the children some day, all of them if
you live.”
	This conversation was the last on the
subject, for the Major never afterwards re-
ferred to it nor did Jane, but she had a
dream, and the dream was realized there-
after.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S CAUSE.

BY M. C. PENNOCK.

We carry no blood-stained flag:
	We flourish no blade of steel:
Nor over red fields of conquest drag
	Their victims at our wheel.
Our banner is fresh and pure,
	Our armor is keen and bright:
With the sword of Truth so strong and sure
	We battle for freedom and right.
We labor for woman’s needs:
	Her freedom of thought and choice:
The right of way where her judgment leads 		
	And the right her wrongs to voice:
We plead for her equal care 
	At the law’s impartial hand,
And the greater gift, an equal share, 
	In the ballots that rule the land.
Yet not as beggars we stand
	To plead for the rights untried;
But, armed with reason and truth, demand
	The justice so long denied. 
Our thought encircles the Earth
	To lift it body and soul:—
We bring to womanhood second birth
	And to manhood self-control.
And swiftly our day grows, bright
	Where its bow of promise gleams,
And glimpses of harvest turning white


Awaken our fondest dreams.
New life is thrilling the land,
	Retouching its moral force;
And sounds of hope, like a martial band,
	Triumphantly lead our course. 
For knowledge is marching on:
	The old gives place to the new;
And science and sense ring in the dawn
	Of the perfect day to view:
The shades of the Past drop by;
	The Word replaces the sword; 
Oppresion and wrong shrink up and die
	In the glory of the Lord. 
Alliance. O. Ex.


[Column 1]
THE VOICE OF THE MOUNTAINS.

I HAVE heard it in the night-time, when the vales
	were fast asleep.
And a presence hush’d and holy did a solemn
	vigil keep;
Oft I listened to the music of a voice so sweet and
	low,
Such as angels might have whisper’d to a lov’d
	one here below;
And it spake to me in volumes of the life which is
	to come,
Of the heights and depths of sorrow, ere we
	reach our Father’s home.
And again in roaring thunders, as the storm
	swept on its course,
While the fury of the tempest shrieked with its
	utmost force;
But the silent watchers near me heeded not the
	voice at all,
Though my heart was beating  wildly, so intense
	and shrill the call.
And I knew that there was meaning in the voice
	that spake to me, 
For it stirr’d the inmost depths of my life’s
	trumultous sea.
Ah! I listen to these voices while my heart with
	rapture thrills,.
And I long to fly and scale the heights of those
	everlasting hills,
But though fancy bears me upward, and my spirit
	takes its flight,
And I stand as ’twere in vision, entranced with
	pure delight,
Yet I cannot reach the hill-tops, they still stretch
	an endless chain -
And higher yet and farther off the summits I
	would gain
When the moon in silver splendor rises o’er the
	Wasatch peaks,
In pathetic tones most tender, with true eloquence
	it speaks—
This voice from out the mountain, hear ye not its
	mellowing notes,
As around the sleeping valley, its deep music
	softly floats,
Let us catch the inspiration, as it cometh from
	above,
And repeat it to the world again in songs of trust
	and love.
In the caverns of the mountains, in the bowels of
	the deep,
What mysteries past, what treasures vast, what
	generations sleep;
Is it marvelous that bursting forth the waters
	break in song,
And tell the tales of ages gone, as they reckless
	dash along?
Or in the shrieking cataracts, leaping on, forever-
	more, 
A wilder legend give us, in their madly, deafen-
	roar!

[Column 2]
Yes, life is full of mysteries, ever mingling 
	with our dreams,
And the earth hath many voices, O, how wonder-
	ful it seems,
That this music so melodious, should move the 
	world to tears!
And  forevermore the: echoes go resounding
	through the years, .’’.'I
A psalm of earth’s full choruses swelling out from
	shore to shore;
Ringing down the grooves of ages, until time
	shall be no more.
And while I listen, rapture-bound, the hills break
	forth in singing
And through the mountain passes deep, the
	joyous notes are ringing;
And ever and anon they swell, with passion’s
	deepest feeling;
All life’s emotions, hidden fires, and esctacy re-
	vealing,
And softer then, and sadder strains with sobs, and
	groans and weeping,
Until my soul is wrought with pains; while all
	around are sleeping.
E. B.W.


I go for all sharing the privileges of the 
government who assist in bearing its bur-
dens, by no means excluding women.  
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The great convention just held in Bos-
ton has been a convention of young people,
and illustrates forcibly the prominent part
taken by youth in the great movements of
the day.  And the young woman has been
fully as much in evidence as the young man.
Neither youth nor sex now debars any one
from taking his or her part in  the  world’s
activities.—Boston Globe.
	MRS MARY SEYMOUR HOWELL, lately
contributed to the  women’s edition of a
paper in Brockport, N. Y., an able article
on equal suffrage.  After sketching the
work of the pioneer in the movement, she
continued:  “With such good company, it
is well to join the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion.  Do not believe the lie that these
daughters will break up homes. They will
make homes more sacred and enduring.
Do not think men and women will cease to
love when women are free.  The old love
story will go on as long as the great world-
clock ticks time away.  Who would have
the sentiment and beauty of our lives taken
away?  Men will love the women of the
coming centuries better, because women
will be nobler, and nobler women will in-
spire stronger and more lasting love.”
	The participation of women will refine
and purify municipal politics. When pri-
mary meetings are composed jointly of men
and women, both will be on their good be-
havior, and the caucus will be lifted to the
level of the parlor.  When one-half of our
board of aldermen and common council are
women, we shall have a higher standard of
personal character and of personal morals.
	Women suffrage will compel parties to
nominate better candidates, because women
discriminate more closely than men in
their estimates of character. They have
a higher regard for personal fitness. They
are less fettered by party ties. They com-
prise three-fourths of our church members
and only one-tenth of our convicts.  When
women vote, the churches and the schools
will become more influential than the
saloons.—Ex,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
cout   regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST  I, 1895.


VISIT TO ALASKA.

	PRESIDENT Woodruff accompanied by
members of his family and his Counselors
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith
and several others left this City, on June 25th
for Portland, Oregon. President
Woodruff was not well at the time and it
was thought he might receive some benefit
by going to the sea-level. He was suffer-
ing from sleeplessness. As soon as he
reached, a lower altitude he was relieved and
after arriving at Portland, Oregon, he could
sleep well.
	From Portland the party went to Tacoma
and from there to Victoria, Vancouver Island,
by way of Puget Sound.
	The President concluded while en route
North, to take a trip to Alaska and the party
made very favorable terms with the Steam
Ship Company; during this trip the whole
party had ample opportunity to see all the
most notable places in the Alaskan and
British Columbian waters. The ladies of
the party are more than delighted with all
they saw and heard The vessel was at
one time moored directly in front of the
Muir glacier, said to be one of the grandest
sights the human eye ever witnessed; the
glacier is two miles long and rises two
hundred and fifty feet above the surface of
the water, extending below seven hundred
and fifty feet it is one hundred and fifty
miles in length and has numerous tribu-
taries. It is estimated to be greater than
the whole number of glaciers in Switzer-
land.
	The party also witnessed something of 
the formation of iceburgs and heard the 
crash of falling ice from the glaciers, which
is like the firing of cannons. Some young-
er members of the party ventured to ex-
plore the sides and surface of the glacier
and tell of the wonderful caverns and cre
vassess, and of the rushing torrents and
waterfalls. Some of the experiences they 
had gave them very good ideas of Arctic
explorers and navigators in the icy regions
of the North pole. While enroute they 
saw how the Captain and crew obtain sup-
plies of ice from an iceberg, this was a 
unique spectale and exceedingly interest-
ing.
	The Captain took the party on the Wil-
lipa up Gardner’s inlet, 125 miles out of the
usual trip of tourists; the scenery at this
point was most sublime and awe-inspiring
to all who had this grand opportunity; the
vessel was drawn up at the foot of a water-
fall 400 feet in height and of majestic size
and magnificent grandeur as it came dash-
ing down the mountain. On the return

[Column 2]
trip the Captain drew the vessel up along-
side a precipice which rose from the water 
perpendicularly 1,500 feet, and receded a 
little to double that height.
	Several whales and porpoises were seen
upon the voyage, in close proximity to the 
steamer, and some of the young men
caught several large Halibut, and two young j
sharks with fishing lines swung over the 
side of the vessel, while at Bartletts bay,
where the vessel took on a cargo of salted 
and smoked salmon. 
	The gentlemen and ladies are all pro-
fuse in their praises of the Captain of the 
vessel, who took every pains to make the 
voyage pleasant and comfortable. Also of 
the Officials and Managers of the Union
Pacific, Northern Pacific and Oregon rail-
way people who showed them every pos-
sible kindness, courtesy and attention and
did all in their power to make the trip
agreeable.
	President Woodruff slept well while away
where the atmosphere was cool, but since 
his return feels the heat somewhat oppres-
sive.
	The young ladies who had this pleasant
journey should write up some of its inter-
esting features, describing places and 
scenery, which must be of special value to 
those who have not enjoyed the privilege
of seeing for themselves, besides it will im-
press it more strongly upon their minds
for future benefit. We should be very glad 
to publish an article of this sort in the 
EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN VOTERS.
	The question of women voting in Utah
seems to have awakened considerable
thought and some expression of opinions
through the public press, all of which may
be beneficial as it will be somewhat educa-
tional, as such discussions of questions
usually is.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 26th,
editorially in speaking on the subject of
the naturalization of foreign-born women,
quotes from opinions of eminent judges of
the Supreme court of the United States and
says Justice Field delivered the opinion of
the court in which it is said:
	‘The case turns upon the construction
given to the second section of the act of
Congress of February 10, 1855, which de-
clares “that any woman, who might law-
fully be naturalized under the existing laws,
married, or who shall be married to a c[-]tizen
of the United States, shall be deemed and
taken to be a citizen. ’ ’ As we construe this
act, it confers the privileges of citizenship
upon women married to citizens of the Uni-
ted States, if they are of the class of persons
for whose naturalization the previous acts of
Congress provide. * * *The terms,
“who might lawfully be naturalized under
existing laws,” only limit the application of
the law to free white women. The previous
naturalization act, existing at the time, only
required that the person applying for the
benefits should be “a free white person,”
and not an alien enemy. * * * It
follows from these views, that the widow
and the two sisters were citizens of the Uni-
ted States upon the decease of the intestate
husband. The widow and Margaret Kahoe
became such on the naturalization of their
respective husbands, and Ellen Owen be-
came such on her marriage.”
	This was, the News says in 1870, but the
same editorial says the latest decision upon

[Column 2]
the question was in the noted Blythe case
in California in 1892.
	“On the same subject, and passing directly
upon the qualifications of voters, the su-
preme court of Illinois, in the case of Keitz
vs. Behreusmeyer, reported in the 125th
Ills., says that whenever a woman, alien
born, who might be naturalized, is in a
state of marriage to a citizen, whether his
citizenship existed at the passage of the act
of Congress of February 18, 1855, or before
or after the marriage, she becomes by that
fact a citizen also and this citizenship is
not lost by the subsequent death of her hus-
band and her afterwards marrying an alien.
	“By the rulings referred to, the matter ap-
pears to be settled beyond all controversy.
The United States Supreme Court is quite
clear upon the question in the case of Kelly
vs. Owens, above referred to, laying down
the rule that the act of Congress of Febru-
ary 10, 1855, which declares “that any wo-
man who might lawfully be naturalized
under the existing laws, married, or who
shall be married to a citizen of the United
States, shall be deemed and taken to be a
citizen,” confers the privileges of citizen-
ship upon women married to citizens of the
United States, if they are of the class of
persons for whose naturalization the previ-
ous acts of Congress provide. The court
states that the terms “married,” or “who
shall be married,” in the act, do not refer
to the time when the ceremony of marriage
is celebrated, but to a state of marriage
and that they mean that whenever a woman,
who under previous acts might be natural-
zed, is in a state of marriage to a citizens
she becomes, by that fact, a citizen also.
His citizenship, whenever it exists, confer,
citizenship upon her.”
	It is to be hoped that the women of this
Territory will study the subject of voting,
and certainly so far as legality is concerned,
and be sure beyond the shadow of a doubt,
that they are doing right. It is such a new
departure, that one need not be embarrassed
in asking for imformation and look to it
that it is positively reliable. It is the firm
belief of the writer that women will not
neglect home duties to attend to public
affairs unless in very exceptional cases,
which frequently occur (as is well known)
in other ways, and for other ends, apart
from suffrage.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 27th,
mentions leading journals East and West as
arguing that women cannot vote at the No-
vember election, and gives the opinion ex-
pressed by the New York Sun (Democratic)
thus:
	“On this hypothesis the Sun advises the
women who want to avoid interference with
the admission of the territory to keep away
from the polls in November. The Repub-
lican San Francisco Chronicle takes a similar
stand, insisting that the adoption of a con-
stitution is only one step in the process of
state-making, and until Utah is fully and
completely a State it must be and remain
under the control of Congress, and be gov-
erned by its laws, which do not recognize
female suffrage in the Territory. As to the
fact that certain officials are to be elected to
become State officers, it is argued that they
are to be chosen by the legal voters of the
Territory, and that the women must wait
until the first State election before they can
exercise the right of suffrage.
	Certainly the women who have been
granted the suffrage in the new State that
is to have the best interests of all at heart,
will abide by the legal decision which must


be given by proper authority to guide the
people in what shall determine the future
prosperity of this great and growing com-
monwealth for the next few years at least.
There should be positive certainty as to the
course to be pursued and for this decision
men will be responsible, because women
can have no actual knowledge on the subject.
It is a serious question, and the best and
highest judicial authority, should in our
humble opinion, determine and announce
the solution of this problem over which
there is at present much controversy.
	As the Primaries are to be held very soon
and as this is the first step towards Con-
ventions for nominating candidates, no time
ought to be lost in quibbling but the specific
course in relation to women voting marked
out, that there may be no mistakes made or
any hindrances in the way of “a fair field
and fair play.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
	HOBART TASMANIA, June 15, 1895.
	Editor Woman’s Exponent:—I have
long been thinking of writing a short letter
to the Exponent to express my gratefulness
for sending it to me, which is truly appreci-
ated. and is very instructive and beneficial;
but almost feared that I would be trespass-
ing upon your valuable space. Many
others here have read it. and think it an
excellent paper.
   Since I have been in this land, I have be-
held many things that do not seem pleasant
to one that has been reared in the vales of
Mormon Utah.
   It is heart-rending to witness the harsh-
ness and cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, and the negligence of their support
and instruction. Large families brought
into the world without knowing scarcely
where the food and clothing will come
from, and are thrown on to the world to
beg for a living. Some of the most cruel 
things, from time to time are brought under
my observation, one I will mention:
   I saw some little children standing around
the door of a “public house,” crying on a
very cold day, bare-headed, and bare-footed,
with scarcely enough clothing on to cover
them; two little ones not more than two
and three years old with a red handkerchief
tied up. The mother finally came to the
door staggering from drink. The two little
ones said, crying bitterly, as if nearly
starved, “Mamma he won’t give us a bit
of bread.” She viciously took the bread
from the little boy, which he had evidently
been begging for, and went off with it.
The little boy leaned back against the house
as if disheartened.
	This, with many other things I have
witnessed has almost caused me to go and
weep. To think of the dear little children
so helpless within themselves, who might
be beautiful and noble if cared for tenderly.
   I will not attempt to relate any other in-
stances, but they occur every day among
those people who constantly visit “public
houses.” How my heart aches for the
the poor little children. How grand, if
they could only be cared for as our little
children are in Zion. May our Heavenly
Father forbid that any of the mothers in
Israel, should ever, so sadly neglect their
innocent offspring that He has so graciously
given them, and entrusted to their care.
When I see the mother so brutal I feel as
if I could take the little things, if it were

[Column 2]
in my power, and bring them up to serve
God, and enjoy a few of the blessings which
they are entitled to.
   No wonder each generation becomes
more corrupt and wicked. They have neg-
lected to give the proper training to prevent
the children from being robbed of their
birthright before they are born. And then
children being born with the sins visited
upon them, who need the most guarded
training are the least thought of.
   I have heard it said here, that there are
few honestly born children in the colonies.
   O, I feel as if I could proclaim our glori-
ous Gospel truths, were it possible, with a
voice of thunder unto this hardened people,
and cause them to realize what greatness
and goodness is taught among the people of
God, called Latter Day Saints.
   If they would put into practice in their
daily walks and conversation, the instruc-
tion given by the true servants of God, how
great their happiness and numerous their
blessings.
   One can more fully comprehend this,
when they are brought to see the wicked-
ness here in the world, and contrast it with
the beautiful sermons put forth by our el-
ders from (Mormon) pulpits, and even the
beneficial writings in the Exponent by
leading women.
   Mothers here in the majority think they
must keep their daughters innocent in re-
gard to the marriage relations, and those
things which would keep them from going
astray, if they receive a mother’s timely
warning, and they are not few who treat
virtue as merely nothing. I have talked
with a number who have said, “I would go
to any one rather than my mother to gain
information on such subjects.” So in many
instances mothers have driven their daugh-
ters from them and destroyed that confidence
which should draw their children to them.
Those tender cords are broken which our
Heavenly Father destined to be there.
There is not so much innocence as ignorance,
and it is time the world should wake to a
sense of the false modesty that exists.
   I sincerely pray with all my heart for the
welfare of Zion, and that the Lord will con-
tinue to guide the mothers of Israel to bring
up the young and rising generation to be
honest, noble, industrious, intelligent and
faithful before the Lord, and the eyes of
the world, and not let supposed innocence
endanger their virtue; for when that is lost
then what a sad condition. Although the
sin may be forgiven the stain will never
wash away.
   The parents will be held accountable to a
certain extent for their children’s actions;
therefore it behooves them to be watchful
and prayerful in their behalf.
	My heart is with the suffrage movement,
and I hope that all the sisters will be able
to use the franchise for the best when it is
obtained. If all would listen to the advice
of noble women, they would strive to live
better lives, and their thoughts and actions
would rise to a higher and grander sphere.
They would be eager to encourage and
hasten on the rights of women. I think
women were not put on the earth to remain
silent in political matters, while their fami-
lies are brought in contact with the rascality
of the world around them; they should
have a voice, then, the condition of affairs
would be materially changed. There is a
good society formed here called the
Woman’s Temperance Council, by the wo-
men of South Australia, (who have received
full franchise). But when I attended their

[Column 3]
meeting, I found that with all their good
intent, there was something lacking, and
of course readily perceived they were de-
ficient of that benign Heavenly influence
which creates such sisterly love that is ex-
perienced among the Latter Day Saints.
They cannot accomplish the desired end by
relying on their own strength. The gospel
plan is the only system through which
these things can be successfully carried out.
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		LOUISE KIMBALL-POND.


LETTER FROM FAR OFF MEXICO

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
		Dear Friend:—
	I CAN still testify to the truth of the old
saying, that to thoroughly appreciate a
blessing we need to be deprived of it for a
season. A day or two ago we received a
bundle of letters and papers, the accumu-
lation of three weeks at the Juarez Post
Office.
	This is the one unpleasant feature of our
new dwelling place, we have no mail line
established yet and have to wait for our
mail matter until some of the brethren go
to Juarez, near ninety miles from here, but we
expect to have a Post Office nearer, if not
here soon. Should any of my old friends
in Utah care to know how I like this place
can truly say, that I feel more settled and
contented than I have for many years. I
love the creations of our God in their wild
grand beauty, and this is as lovely a place
for an inland town as I ever have seen.
The valley is almost a perfect circle set in a
frame of evergreen trees, the land is not a
flat plane but just rolling enough for
security and beauty, last season after the
rains it was like a beautiful flower garden
all over the valley, on the south west side
is a strip of pine and fir trees, running
down into the valley, and a block has been
reserved for a park; on the south east are
beautiful cliffs and high mounds, some re-
sembling ruined castles, on the north west
is a lovely site for a temple, and I hope ere
many years to see one there, it over looks
two valleys, this one and that one is called
North Valley, a fine location for a small
village.
	This certainly is one of the choice places
the Lord has held in reserve for some wise
purpose, and I think those permitted to set-
tle here highly favored of the Lord. It is
a large beautiful, bountiful country, and I
cannot see how any of the little, petty con-
tracted, notions and selfishness of man can
flourish here, it seems to me that the works
of natnre, and the spirit of the Almighty
that I feel here, must put such things to
shame, and may God grant that the powers
of Satan may get no strong hold here. I
sincerely believe that every word of Brother
Thatcher in regard to this place will be
realized in the near future.
	With my bundle of papers was one
number of the EXPONENT, April 15th,
which has been of more than usual interest
to me, I see the names of dear old friends
who have been standby’s of our little paper
since its earliest existence. In the up’s
and down’s of my wanderings, I have
neglected to add my mite to its columns, but
have never lost interest in its welfare, have
felt that it was ably supported by those bet-
ter posted on the subjects of greatest inter-
est to its readers.
	I have read over some of the articles in
the number referred to several times, I


heartily endorse the sentiments of ‘Lula,
in her “Spirit of Reform” reduced to prac-
tice, and pray God speed the day; can
sympathize with “Sister Augusta,” in
“Hunting A Hat,” and memory turns back
to the day when her’s was no “Weary face
and faded hair.” 
	Ah, well let us take comfort in the
thoughts that the weary face will grow
young and bright again, when we have
fought the battle of life and passed beyond
the river.
	“Back to the Long Ago,” of L. M.
Hewlings, touches a chord in my heart, as
it must in every heart that reads it and has
had a like experience; it is a sad, sad pleas-
ure to go back after many years to the
home and scenes of childhood, to enter in
at the same old door, to stand on the same
hearth-stone, and find not the loved ones of
those early days, find not the dear hand
that lighted the fires on the old hearth-
stone, hear not the loving voices bidding us
welcome, to find the same garden flowers,
but planted and tended by others not of the
old time band.
	O, life what a fitful changing dream of
joy and sorrow, of which the fleeting years
leave us but a memory. To my friends in
Utah I would send love and greeting, some
of them promised a visit to this land when
we get a Temple here, and I pray that time
may come ere those helped make the days
spent in our Salt Lake Temple, so
pleasant to me have passed on to the “Better
Land” to reap the reward of their labors
here.
Sincerely Your Friend,
	S. E. RUSSELL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE STAKE.
[Ephraim.]
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conferencs
held at Ephraim June 28, 1895.
	President M. A. P. Hyde presiding.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Elder R. N. Allred. Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Presi-
dent M. A. P. Hyde made a few opening
remarks, said she hoped the blessings of the
Lord might be with us.
	Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. Verbal reports were given by
the presidents of the various branches of
the county.
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
felt happy to see so many present. The
Prophet Joseph organized this Society
after the pattern of the holy priesthood.
In speaking of attendance she said, “Come
sisters come, and partake of the waters of
life; it is a great thing to have our souls
educated-” Thought it important to have
a correct record kept for future generations.
If any go astray, put your arms around
them and bring them back, a word of en-
couragement does much good, and those
who are all right should thank God for it.
Said how good it is to witness the
same good spirit among the sisters.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said she was
pleased to be with us again and like aunt
Zina enjoyed the Spirit that was present.
Said half of the work cannot be written
here, but when the books are opened then
we will be rewarded for what we have
done our sacrifices will come back in the
form of blessings.
	President Hyde felt thankful for the re-

[Column 2]
marks of the sisters and hoped we might
profit by them. Could say in truth of the
Sisters of Sanpete that they are humble
and were therefore destined to progress.
Where the sons of God are, there the
devil is also, therefore we should be on our
guard.
	Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc.
Benediction by Bishop L. S. Anderson.
	Sister Sarah Peterson then invited all the
visitors from the neighboring settlements
and all officers of the Ephraim Relief
Society to adjourn to the Relief Society
Hall where all partook of a bounteous re-
past prepared by the home sisters.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing, “Guide us O, thou great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder Henry
Beal. Singing, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said in thinking of Sister Young and
the great importance of the office she held,
how our hearts should go out in payer for
her, said she had just visited the Relief
Society of the Stake, and Young Ladies
Association and could see that they are
growing. Hoped we would always be
dictated in wisdom.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson felt pleased to
hear the reports of the presidents, felt as
though she could report the presidents, for
she had associated with them so much.
Advised the sisters to take care of the wheat
which President Young had called upon
them to gather and save.
	President Young said that in the first
sermon delivered by President Brigham
Young in Utah he said: “There is much
silk here,” the sisters should be interested
in this. We should study economy, teach
it to our children. Felt that the Heavens
were pleased with both organizations,
prayed that we would all hold the
principles of this work more sacred than
life itself.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said: The
Relief Society is of great importance, it is
in each branch not only to help the poor,
but also to help ourselves; fully believed that
many had kept the faith by attending their
meetings. Their hearts have been cheered
comforted and made better.
	President Canute Peterson said the sisters
report in regard to the poor being well
cared for, is interesting to us, and to our
leading brethren. No one can be truly
good to the poor unless they love Christ.
Said in regard to the franchise he would
vote for the women of Utah
	Conference adjourned for three months
with singing. Prayer by N. C. Christen-
son.
	H. E. ARMSTRONG, Cor. Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	OUR Quarterly Conference convened in
the Tabernacle at Brigham City, on June
11th, 1895. Counselor Mayr Wright pre-
siding. Singing, “Oh, say what is Truth.”
Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Singing,
“Up, up, ye defenders of Zion.”
Minutes read by Annie Wixom, accepted.
	Counselor M. Wright said: “I feel so sor-
ry our president is unable to be with us,
may the blessings of the Lord be on us all.”
	Sister Michelsen, president of the Scandi-
navian Association; We are but few who
meet together, but the Lord has blest us,
we have emigrated fifty-eight souls.
	Sister Albertson, president Bear River
City: “Our meetings are well attended, we
try to do our duty.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Hubbard, President at Willard,
“Let us try to be faithful and train our
children in virtue and truth.”
	Sister Jensen, President at Geneva: “We
have a good attendance and a good spirit in
our meetings.”
	Sister Thorne, President Three Mile
Creek, “We find it a great benefit to read
the Lectures on Faith.”
	Sister Dewey, President Deweyville,
“The record we make on this earth, is what
we will be judged by.”
	Sister Hunsaker, President Honeyville,
“Those who are faithful, will gain the re-
ward.”
	Sister Rollins, from Snowville, “I hope
that I may ever have a testimony, may we
all prove faithful.”
	Sister Bowen, from Beaver Dam, “We
have good attendance and all are ready to
do their duty.”
	President Zina D. H. Young, “I feel
very happy, we are something like the in-
fants, their weakness is their strength, we
need to lean upon the Lord.”
	“I never saw a time before like this, how
we need to come together, gaining love and
confidence, this union is to be the greatest
boon, to build up one another, this is our
strength.
	When I look at my old sisters, I wonder,
where our recruits are coming from? We
advance and at last step out. We are here
to be tried, to learn to endure, and to do our
work well; our religion goes into every
household, that is the beauty of it, do our
little duties well, the world have not the
key to approach the Lord as we have, we
should greatly appreciate this privilege.”
Referred to President Woodruff saying,
“That the destroying angel has gone
abroad. I am not a clannist, I love one
nation, as well as another. It is a divine
mission of woman, to raise her children;
build you a Relief Society house as soon as
you can, the Prophet Joseph gave a lot for
that purpose, at the first organization. We
want to grow and increase in all the good
things that God gives. May the Lord
strengthen us to do His will and keep His
commandments, is my prayer, amen.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “I am very
pleased to be here, I feel, that not any of
us really realize what the Relief Society
has been to us, we would not have had the
chance to advance, without it, as we do
now, every sister who rises up to speak,
helps some one else, we want to be brave,
we want to remember we stand in the
presence of the Lord; we must forgive
each other, and look into our own hearts.”
Related a great deal from Washington, re-
ferred to the Scandinavian sisters in Copen-
hagen, about their meetings. Spoke of the
Maori sisters. The Sandwich Islands re-
port is always interesting, really an exam-
ple to us. I think we should be a little
careful about our gifts, I believe we sisters
should be a light to the world. Spoke of
the work of sister Noal. She said “When
I went to Washington and Atlanta, last
winter, one of the things I tried to do was
to look after a Silk Experiment Station, I
saw some of the influential men, and they
spoke favorably, we had already petitioned
for one or more Experiment Stations in
Utah, I believe we shall build up that in-
dustry and make it remunerative to the
people. Singing, “An Angel from on
high.” Benediction by Counselor Zella
Rees.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Bishop


Jansen. Singing “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” Minutes read and accepted.
The following presidents reported their
wards, doing well, Sister Susannah P.
Booth, Sister Mary Watkins, Sister Mary
Jansen.
	Counselor Zella Reese, “I am thankful I
am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, 
of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “We talk
about aunt Eliza and her teachings, we
talk about the Prophet, it is also good to
talk about the good men and women of our
day.
	Father Joseph Smith Sen. used to say,
“Faith is energy, and energy is faith,” you
notice any one of great faith, can do al-
most anything. Among the women of the
world we find many with great faith and
also with faith in us. Spoke of noted
ladies of the World’s Fair, who expressed
their trust and confidence in Sister Zina
Young, in herself and others, related some
incidents. “I speak of this only to illustrate
the influence we have had with these noble
and illustrious women.”
	Explained the National Council; told in-
teresting incidents from Atlanta. “May the
Lord help us to be diligent and do our duty,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen.”
	President Zina D. H. Young: “We should
be very mindful of our children, teach
them to be helpful, things are moving fast,
the prophecies are being full-filled, spoke of
the Kindergarten; children have rights,
we are too much taken up with the things
of the world, aunt Eliza used to say, ‘If
you want anything done, don’t go to those
who have plenty of time, but those who
have energy.” The Lord delights to bless
us, if we keep humble and faithful. We
should bring up children to respect and
honor the Deity, when they do this, we
shall prosper in the Land. I hope those
who have the suffrage will manage it wise-
ly, mothers should understand politics that
they can teach their children. It is the Lord
that makes the world look towards Zion.
There is no dark valley of death for the
Saints, we know for a surety that God is.
We need this spiritual association and the
association of each other.
	President Rudgar Clawson: “I have
listened with attention to the description of
the National Organizations, it gives us in-
fluence.” Spoke of the appreciation the
Priesthood felt, for the work of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles Kelly, “I was remind-
ed by Aunt Zina’s remarks, of a testimony,
borne by an old lady, spoken in tongues,
that ‘Zion is the salt of the earth, and a
beacon-light to the world,” let your light
shine for all the world is looking toward
Zion.”
	Counselor Mary Wright, made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Bene-
diction by Bishop Dewey.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN WEDDING.

	ALEXANDER AND MARGARET STEEL.

	The Golden Wedding of Brother Alex-
ander Steel, and his wife Margaret Farqu-
har Steel, was celebrated on the 31st, of
January 1895.
	As Sister Steel is President of the Re-
lief Society in the First Ward of this City
and has no relatives in this country, the
sisters of the Relief Society thought it

[column 2]
would be a pleasure to get up a surprise
party, as a tribute of their love and esteem
and on the fiftieth anniversary of her wed-
ding day. The originater of the party be-
ing Sister Mary Thorup, one of the teachers
in the Relief Society. The party was held
at the residence of Brother C. J. Thomas
as they could accommodate a larger com-
pany, than could the home of Brother and
Sister Steel. There were present Bishop
Joseph Warburton and wife, Connselor
Joseph Booth and wife and John T.
Thorup and wife. Bishop Packard, of
Springville, Elder A. M. Musser and ladies,
Brothers H. A. Thorup, C. J. Thomas,
John Squires, Wm. Campbell, George
Hilton, Ezra C. Adams, and their wives
and several other ladies, including Sister
Steel’s counselors, and teachers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society, who labor under
her jurisdiction. After partaking of supper,
we had singing and instrumental music,
and speeches were made by the Bishop and
his counselors, and a number of other breth-
ren and sisters, all expressing great confi-
dence and love for Brother and Sister Steel,
and speaking in glowing terms of their ex-
cellent character, and of the good they had
done and were continually doing in the
community; and many good wishes were
expressed for their future success, prosperity
and happiness, Brother and Sister Steel each
responded neatly and gratefully to the kind
wishes, and expressions, and demonstra-
tions of love that had been made for them
and in a very interesting manner related
some of their early experiences, and the
company dispersed, feeling that we had
spent a very pleasant and profitable time to-
gether.
	I am sorry not to have furnished the
items of this pleasant affair sooner, while
they were more fresh in my mind. 
				AMY A. THOMAS.

Brother and Sister Steel are real Scotch
born near Glasgow and were married in
Galston Ayrshire Scotland on the 31st, of
January,1895,by the Rev. Robert McIndoe.
four and a half years before they became
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Sister Steel’s brother
who is a wealthy grain merchant and mem-
ber of the City Council of Glasgow visited
his sister and spent a few days here in 1876,
he is a man of extensive cultivation has
traveled much in foreign countries.
	A glasgow paper of recent date has this
to say concerning Sister Steel’s brother.

		EX-BAILIE FARQUHAR.
	Another Ayrshire boy,ex- Bailie John Farquhar,
who one morning, in the year 1843, might have
been seen trudging into the city from Kilmar-
nock, footsore, but with a Whittington like de-
termination to make his mark, is also a Free
Educationist candidate	Beginning by serving
his apprenticeship “behind the counter,” he ul-
timately became one of our most successful mer-
chants. Perhaps his first public appearance was
in connection with the getting of shop hours
shortened from 9 p. m. till 8 p. m. to enable him-
self and other lads to attend the Andersonian
College. In matters of temperance particularly
with regard to providing counter-attractions to
the public-houses, he has always been interested,
having as far gone as thirty five years ago taken
an active part in establishing schools for ap
prentices in the North-Western district of the
city, and been mainly instrumental in the forma-
tion of a reading-room in the Milton Hall, a site
now occupied by the Grand Theatre. In their
wisdom the Ninth Ward saw fit in the year 1874
to return Mr. Farquhar as one of their represen-
tatives on the Town Council, a position which he
held for nine years, during six of which he oc-
cupied the dignified post of Magistrate. Since
his retirement from the Council, he represents

[column 3]
that body on the Juvenile Delinquency Board, is a
member of the Merchants’ House and the Buch-
anan Institution, and a Justice of the Peace. He
is now practically retired from business, and
seeks to employ his leisure in educational mat-
ters.
	In a letter to his sister he says, “I have
been appointed one of Her Majesty’s Justice’s
of the Peace for the County, which means
magistrate for life.”
As Sister Steel has no family and no relatives
here, it was quite proper their friends who
know them intimately and have such high
respect for them should accord them this
honor which is their just due.
	That they may live to do the work they
desire and rejoice in the blessings of the
gospel of peace and salvation, and continue
in health and prosperity, is the sincere wish
of the writer who is a personal friend and
ardent admirer of the integrity and up-
rightness of these dear old Scotch friends.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two, that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing, and brow never cold,
	Love oh thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”
							E. B. W.


THE ECONOMY OF WOMEN.

	In these advanced days of Women’s
Rights, Women’s Economics as seen from
the standpoint of domestic life, may seem
very old-fashioned, and of little importance.
But to a housekeeper in the true sense of
the word, they are like many little things,
stepping stones to greater.
	It is an old saying that “straws show
which way the wind blows,’’ so also very,
little things are true indexes to character.
	It is the “little foxes that spoil the vines,’’
so it is the little things neglected and un-
done that makes a home unpleasant and un-
attractive. If the children’s playthings are
littered around a room, it does not present
a very inviting appearance. They should
be taught to put their toys away, for it
saves the mother many weary steps, and is
the beginning of a very necessary part of
every child’s education, the cultivation of
order. Order is called Heaven’s first law,
and at home is the place to begin its culti-
vation, it is just as necessary to have a
place for everything and everything in its
place, and that each member should do their
part to establish and maintain this happy
condition, as it is in God’s Holy Temples,
to observe law and order.
	What the most talked of “Coming
Woman” will be is yet in the future. That
she will be other than a better, nobler,
more perfect type of womanly woman, no
thinking person can desire, but whatever
she will be it will only be attained by in-
dividual effort. To be a faithful wife and
true mother is conceeded by most to be the
Ultima Thule of womanhood.
	A woman’s life is necessarily many sided,
for she must combine a dozen different
trades or occupations in one, if she has ample
means, she may not be called on to perform
all these duties herself, but she must have
a practical knowledge of them, to know
when they are properly performed or direct
others, and that often means harder work
than to do it one’s self. She must see there
is no waste in any department, that there
is not more food prepared than necessary,
and what is left thrown away.
	She must know how to prepare good


[Column 1]
wholesome food, and how to make use of
even the scraps left over. If these so called
hard times would teach many people true
economy, they would be a blessing indeed.
Children if allowed to go to the pantry
whenever they wish, would not only waste
food, but acquire habits of irregular eating.
They should not be allowed to mar or break
the furniture, smear the windows or mirrors
with dirty fingers, tear books or magazines.
A soiled book is a disgrace to a housekeeper.
Clothing should be mended when torn, “a
stitch in time saves nine.” Button-holes
made and buttons sewed on before a gar-
ment is worn; on the other hand, all but-
tons should be cut off when clothes are
worn out, before they are put in the rag-bag.
Shoes should be buttoned, they wear better
and keep a better shape.
	Domestic economy will include economy
of time, the old saying, “time is money,”
will apply to the housewife as well as the
business man. It is not economy for a wo-
man to sit up late nights to sew, or do
other household work. Many a mother
has burned the midnight oil and tired out
body and mind to prepare fine clothes for
her children, that not only stimulate and
encourage pride and vanity in their hearts,
but overwork and lack of necessary rest
cause her to become a fretful, peevish, sickly
woman, unfitted to enjoy or perform life’s
highest duties. A woman’s time is too val-
uable to waste in baking bread to throw to
the pigs or chickens, she has too much to
do to prepare herself, and cultivate the tal-
ents God has given her, to waste her time
gossiping and talking over the failings of
her neighbors, or finding fault with the au-
thorities of the church. She should be con-
tinually striving to reach a little higher
daily, to keep the lesser laws of God, that
she may be able to obey the higher laws also,
and teach the children entrusted to her care,
to be worthy men and women, on whose
shoulders the burden of life will soon fall.
	It is the mother’s influence that molds
the children more than any other, and it is
through and by this measure the race will
be elevated or degraded. The mother must
teach the articles of faith, the ten com-
mandments, to pray, to ask the blessing at
the table, so that when called upon to know
these things, they are ready to respond.
To come to family prayers with clean hands
and faces, and smooth hair, to hold their
knife and fork properly at table, to be neat
and quiet at table.
	An apostle not long ago in his prayer
circle, advised the members to button their
own collars, tie their own neckties and
brush their own clothes. Whether there
was any more on this line I do not know,
but it might well have been added do
not leave papers you take off of packages or
are using a part of, lie around for some one
else to pick up, or leave coats and hats
hanging on chairs or laying on tables, or
shoes setting in various places to be moved
whenever necessary to sweep. The ex-
ample of the head of the family has great
weight with the children; Papa does so,
why can’t I? Living before children is a
constant repressing of indulging in careless
habits by the elders, if they care anything
for their example or the well being of their
children.
	It takes a woman of firm principle and
strong will to perform the little duties faith-
fully, and bear the little annoyances of a
housekeeper's daily life, when perhaps her
inclinations and tastes run in a different

[Column 2]
channel, when she receives few if any words
of encouragement, but does what seems, to
be her duty because it is right.
	There is a good deal said nowadays about
the higher education of women. In what
that shall consist, there is room for diversity
of opinion. As the prospective mother of
the higher, nobler, more perfected man-
hood we are looking forward to. Our girls
must have a better knowledge of themselves,
know how to take care of their own bodies
how to dress, eat, exercise, work and study
for the highest development of themselves,
and then they will be in a condition to fur-
nish bodies worthy of the noble spirits that
are to roll on the work in this Last Dispen-
sation, to make ready for the coming of our
Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
	R. S. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS FROM A DECADE OF
		EGYPTOLOGY.

	The colossus of the Ramesseum at
Thebes, a sitting statue of 800 tons, was 60
feet in height. Mr. Petrie shows the Zoan
monolith, of over 900 tons, to have been
between 90 and 100 feet in height. You
may judge, too, of the stupendous charac-
ter of the buildings at Zoan, when this ex-
plorer states that over 20,000,000 of large
bricks were found in the wall at the end of
the temple axis. Of course they were not
counted one by one. Where was Goshen?
Naville had read on two fragments in the
Cairo Museum inscriptions relating to the
nome (district) in Egypt called Arabia,
which was known from the Septuagint and
Greek historians to represent the land of
Goshen. When he espied a block of black
granite peeping from the mud at Saft-el-
Henneh, four miles east of the railway sta-
tion Zag-a-Zig, his trained eye instantly
recognized it as a third fragment of the
monument from which the two fragments
had been taken. The results of six weeks
of work proved that he had found the site
of the city of Goshen, about which lay that
fat land.
	Josephus is enthroned as a credible his-
torian by the disclosures of Naville at the
site of Onias, one of the Jewish cities re-
ferred to by Isaiah (19:19).
	How the spade itself must have caught
an electric thrill when it turned up at
Tahpanhes the gold handle to Pharaoh
Hophras’ tray! He entertained Jeremiah
and the royal daughters of Zedekiah but
Nebuchadrazzar entered Egypt and razed
the palace-fort. Read the story in that
prophet, 37-47. Petrie well exulted in the
fund report: “The interest of finding the
only Egyptian building specifically named
in the Old Testament is unique, and this
is increased by the fact that its arrange-
ments explain a special description given by
Jeremiah.”
	Those Tel-el-Amarna tablets are an ex-
haustless mine yet how many like tablets
patiently await the discoverer’s eye? As
stated at the Congress of Orientalists in
September at Geneva, a tablet disinterred at
Lachish, the Amorite city captured by
Joshua, has on it the name of Zimrida, the
govenor of Lachish, the very man men-
tioned in the Tel-el-Amarna tablets. So
not only Tel-el-Amarna proves the existence
of Lachish, but shows the interchange of
these tablets, used as they were, or diploma-
tic correspondence between Egypt, Canaan
and Babylonia.
	A papyrus of the third century that

[Column 2]
greets the explorer of 1892, containing por-
tions of Zechariah and Malachi, is considered
to be the oldest copy extant, and to have
been copied from the original Septuagint.
	Another papyrus-roll? It is the long-lost,
spurious Gospel of St. Peter, valuable now
as corroborative evidence of the narratives
of the evangelists. A complete picture of
the varied society in the Fayoum of the
golden days of the Ptolemies is afforded by
the rescued papyri from Gurob; the voca-
bulary of the Septuagint contains many of
the words peculiar to them.
	Do my fair readers wish for entertaining
monograms of life in Athens 250 years B.
C.? Egypt gives up the poems of Herodes,
a local poet, who introduces a dialogue be-
tween two dames anent servant-girl afflict-
ions. fashions, and the best bargains.
	The affluent mound of Naukratis, the
site of the brilliant Greek emporium in
Egypt prior to Alexandria, 1000 by 500
yards, at the spade’s bidding has given us
material for “a very important advance in
our knowledge of the early Greek world ”
as Professor Middleton remarked.
	A headless Apollo, most diminutive, from
Naukratis, now in Boston, is fully recognized as a
prototype of the famous Apollo of Thera in the
museum at Athens.
	The remains of the Temple of Apollo
vividly recalls details of the Erectheum in
Athens; hundreds of broken vases and bowls
show, as nowhere else, the development of
the early Ionic alphabet; a vast collection of
Greek tools of 600 B. C. exceeds all other
finds in number and variety; the site of the
first scarab factory yet discoverd reveals
the entire process of fabrication of that cu-
rious emblem of immortality to the ancient
Egyptain. “The Egyptian Princess” of
Ebers became history as well as romance
when the dull mound exposed its treasures.
		*	*	*	*	*
	That wonderful woman, Queen Hatasu,
built the most unique temple in all Egypt,
and to-day Dr. Naville’s pickaxes and
spades are finishing its excavation. The
woman who could order cut, made, en-
graved, gold-tipped, and set up at Karnak
the two largest and finest of all the obelisks,
aud have her order executed within seven
months’ time, was the Pharaoh before all
others to erect this terraced temple. On
the walls of the south division of the mid-
dle colonnade her depicted naval expedi-
tion to Punt was found by Mariette; while
Naville has recently disclosed on the walls
of the northern division a history of Hatasu
—her birth, education enthronment.—
The New Cycle.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.

R.K. THOMAS
	26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail 
Cash House


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 15, 1895.	No.6.


CONTENTS:
	Lecture On Suffrage—R. M.  F. Ladies Semi-
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. Agricultural
College Of Utah—J. H. Paul  The Opinion Of
The  Court.   A   .Tribute  To  The  Late Sister
Presinda Kimball—Laura C.   Pack. Relief
Society Quarterly Conference.  Visit And Meet-
ing s at Willard—E. B. W.     Relief Society Con-
ference—E. B.W.      U.   W. P. C.—L. S. Wilcox
Letter To U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.    R. S. &
P. A. Repoits. Conference  N.  A.  W. S.  A.
Cooking In An Electric Oven. Woman Suf-
frage In Colorado. Obituaries. 
POETRY:—My Friends—E. R.  S. Friendship
—Lucy A. Clark.  Beautiful Hands.


MY FRIENDS.

O, THOU friends of my youth, and life’s later age!
Thy names are inscribed on time’s fitful page
Indelibly written in letters of gold,
On my heart’s living tablet that never grows cold
Though the world grows apace and the cycle of
	time
Reaps the harvest of age,and e’en flowers in their
	prime,
Still enshrined in my soul with all that is dear,
Are the names of my friends in characters clear.
Ah! These friends are the brighest of jewels I
	wear,
More precious than diamonds so brilliant and rare
The very best gifts my Father hath given.
E’en beams from His presence, descending from
	Heaven.
How dreary the world e’en with all of its powers,
Its sunshine, its music, and beautiful flowers,
Without a true friend, with the magic of love,
Refreshing our souls, as the fountain above,
Refreshes our spirits with infinite peace,
Inspiring us ever in good works to increase.
	E. R. S.


FRIENDSHIP.

THERE are many friends in spring-time,
	When the air is pure and sweet,
When the roses blossom around you
	And the lillies at your feet,
How they seek to win your favor,
	Gain your approbative smile,
And with words and deeds of kindness
	Your fond, loving heart beguile.
There are many friends in summer,
	When prosperty abounds,
When kind fortune smiles upon you,
	And the air with praise resounds
How you gaze at them and wonder
	Who’ll be firm and true to trust,
Who will stand the test of friendship.
	Who will say thy cause is just.
When the stormy clouds of autumn
	In the horizon, appear
Friends who’re false and faint and fickle
	One by one will disappear,
Let them go false friends and traitors
	For such friends are,worse than none a 
In an hour when most they’re needed
	Then you look, and lo! they’re gone.
But the friend that’s true in winter
	When the frosty chilling blast,
Wraps its icy mantle round you


That is friendship that will last;
Such a friend is like a jewel
	Rich and rare of wealth untold;
Not time, nor heat, will change them
	Like a diamond set in gold.
But though earthly friends may wander
	Far away in time of need,
There is One who rules in heaven
	He’s a friend, a friend indeed
Ferns may fade, and roses wither, 
	Leaves decay and mosses die,
But if you’ll retain his favor,
	You’ll to victory soar on high.
	LUCY A. CLARK.


[Column 1]

LECTURE ON SUFFRAGE 

[Given before the Reapers Club, S. L. C.]
	Ex-Governor Long has said the argu-
ments against Woman’s Suffrage are like a
bag of feathers, you may punch it all day
but it remains a bag of feathers still, there
is no solidity in it and you can make no im-
pression upon it. And it would seem too
as though this question of suffrage would
become worn and threadbare, that the argu-
ments for and against were well nigh ex-
hausted, but to the women who are eagerly
watching and waiting for the glorious burst
of day it is like a well of living water.
True, to those women who have all the
rights and privileges they want it doubtless
does become very wearisome, to them I
would say cast your eyes abroad, look long
and steadfastly until they shall rest with
pitying glance upon some poor creatures
who are not so fortunate.
	It is all very well to say, let them work
for suffrage who want it, there are women
bound with chains of degradation who
know it not, there are others while sensing
it most keenly are powerless, or think they
are, to raise one finger for their own de-
liverance. And must these suffer while
we enjoy all the rights we want? must these
eat crusts while we feed on the luxuries of
life? No, no! never let it be said that wo-
men are regardless of the rights of their
sisters, rather let us labor for them and
with them, let us educate them until they
shall assert their independence and shake
the shackles from their wrists, thus may we
lift them to a higher plane and help to lay
the foundation for the ushering in of that
golden time upon which the best thought of
the ages has been centred. Oh women!
what a responsibility rests upon your shoul-
ders in the bringing about of that glorious
time. Mothers, do you not know that the
very foundation of government is
in the family circle? do you not see
that what the homes are, so the state must
be?
	So while I would urge women to take
part in every good thing, as far as circum-
stances will permit, I would say guard well
your homes for there is the nation in
embryo. Ever since Eve partook of the
forbidden fruit, which certainly showed her
pluck, women have been blamed for all the
ills that flesh is heir to; there has been a
woman at the bottom of everything that

[Column 2]
savored of ill repute, but in the future there
will be a woman at the bottom of every-
thing good, not excluding good govern-
ments. Men have not been slow to lay
their burdens upon us, but they have been
so afraid we should find it out, we have
heard a great deal about the father having
to battle with the world for a livelihood for
the family. And here let me say there
would be no struggle for a living if the
world were properly managed, but the man
who could succeed in being what is termed
a good provider, has ever been considered
par excellence. But we have not heard so
much about mothers hundreds and thou-
sands of them who are not only the pro-
viders for themselves and their husbands
but they bear and rear families at the same
time. And on these mothers rests the re-
sponsibility of the conduct of these children
also, even men will tell you that women
can bind the family together far better than
they; it is a common expression that it is
better for the father to leave the family,
even if there is no visible means of support
than the mother. If this can be truthfully
said of women after she has been bound
with the chains of servitude for thousands
of years to what heights may she not attain
when she shall grasp greater opportunities,
cultivate the intelligence which God has
given her  and developed herself to the
full perfection of womanhood. Now let
us for a moment imagine a mother, and
there are a multitude of them who have
brought to the state several worthy sons the
greatest service she could possibly bestow,
unless perhaps it was an equal number of
good daughters, she has taught them the
laws of life, filled them with the spirit of
patriotism and the love of God. Just think
of the conditions that make it possible for
those sons to say, “Mother, I am twenty-
one years old, a full-fledged citizen. I can
vote now and have a voice in the govern-
ment of the nation. Who knows! Some
day I may be a Senator, aye, even President
of the United States.” But women don’t
know anything about government, they
have had no experience in such matters.
Oh, consistency, thou art a jewel! What
mothers, do not know enough to vote after
spending thirty or more years in the very
best self-discipline that can be devised in
the government of the family.    Again we
have been taught from the good old book
that wives are in subjection to their hus-
bands, that depends altogether on what kind
of husbands,   righteous men truly are the
head of the wife just precisely as Christ is
the head of the Church, and Christ is the
head of the Church to lift all men up to
Him where if they will come he will give
them a seat on the right hand of the Father.
Does that look like subjection?
	Then there are many women that have no
husbands and must necessarily be their own
head.   This question of suffrage for women
may properly be termed a movement of re-
form, and they must bring a different ele-
ment into government from the one in con-
trol now, or I fear their efforts will be of
little avail. Men have become so used to
trickery in politics that it seems to be ah-


solutely necessary; there are tricks in all
trades, no one thinks anything about it. To
be honest and wear a plain bold front has
gone entirely out of fashion, none but very
peculiar people think of such a thing.
	Prayer is not needed in politics, God has
nothing to do with it, He no longer holds
the destiny of nations in the hollow of His
hand. Indeed, I fear that were it possible
for Washington, the immortal father
of our country, to be discovered in
this day and age of the world, fervently
praying for divine aid in the guerdon of the
American armies he would be the subject of
rldicule. But instead of prayers we must
bow and scrape and smile and flatter and
sometimes even buy ourselves into public
favor. Shame upon such actions. Well
did the Savior understand such people when
he said, “ye are a generation of vipers, for
ye are like unto whited sepulchers which in-
deed appear beautiful without, but are
within full of dead men’s bones and all
uncleanness.” So. I say women to the
rescue; women to the front; join with good
men, and let me tell you there is no man so
good and great but what is all the stronger
with a brave, true woman by his side,
neither are brave men numerous enough to
fight the battle alone. Join with noble
men and clear this broad earth from cellar
to garret, let the work roll on, and the
word go forth that women will neither be
bribed nor persuaded from the path of duty
but once knowing it, will do it or die. Let
her conscience go into politics as it has in
her home so shall she carry the white ban-
ner of purity and liberty, casting her ballot
at all times for the best good of all mankind
until there shall be “a new heaven and a
new earth and all things old shall have
passed away.” R. M. F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward, July 27, 1895, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, “O Jesus the Giver,” etc. Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. Secretary, Sister Young not be-
ing present, Sister L. D. Alder, was called
to take the minutes.
	President M. I. Horne, felt glad that she
was able to be present to day, as she had
been away for some time. Said she had
been to Bear Lake, on a visit, and bore
testimony that the same spirit moved upon
the sisters there as it does everywhere,
where the saints dwell, she said, ‘‘I greet
you, my sisters with love and kindness, I
pray that we may be faithful and true to
our covenants, then the grace of God will
be with us.”
	Sister Minerva Snow, said, “Accidentally
I am here, not knowing that this was meet-
ing day, but was invited by a sister, whom
I called upon to visit. I am pleased with
the report of Sister Horne of the faithful
ness of the sisters everywhere. I rejoice
to see my sisters advancing and progressing.
We have everything to encourage and build
us up. Our Father has caused this organi-
zation to be instituted, that we may not be
strangers, and I thank Him for it. Do we
appreciate the rich blessings that He pours
out upon us, in His holy Temples? My
meditations on these things brings joy un-
speakable to my heart. May we endure to

[Column 2]
the end, and receive the reward of the
faithful.”
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I feel pleased
to be able to stand before you for a short
time. While sitting here, I have thought
of our dear Sister King, who used to meet
here, she said she ached to be fed by the
spirit, I too have come to be fed, I cannot
go very often to meeting, yet I have much
to be thankful for. The Lord has been
good to me in my life. I am peaceful and
have a comfortable spirit.
	There is so much before us, so much to
be done, yet our Father does not require
more of us than we can do. We are here
in this mortal existence, moving on, God
sees us at all times, yet we cannot always
understand the Spirit, nor comprehend
Him. I think we might be more diligent,
more humble. Do the best we can then we
are accepted of Him. The nearer we ap-
proach the condition of the Spirit in us, the
better we will be. May we always be able
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord.”
	Sister Z. D. H. Young: “It is like a
well-spring to my heart, to see your faces,
sisters. We have increased knowledge by
reading, especially the Book of Covenants.
We cannot bound the work we are engaged
in, I am thankful that we have a part in
this work. Why we sometimes feel so
hungry and sometimes so feasted, I know
not, only that the Spirit goeth where it
listeth. We need the spirit of the Lord
daily, then He will open up the way before
us. Our trials are for our good, but when
we are passing through them, we cannot
see the light, but when we can say in our
hearts, “Thy will be done” we are near to
victory. I have heard President Young
bless the Relief Society, now sisters if you
are not enrolled, you cannot get the bless-
ing. We want to stay here in this world
and labor, as long as the Lord wants us to.
It will make no difference when our turn
comes to go. God bless you all.”
	Sister Martha Barrus, testified that we
who belong to the Relief Society do receive
blessings. Also bore her testimony. Sis-
ters sang “Who are these arrayed in white.”
	Sister Sawyer Snow, felt encouraged, and
desired to press on in the work.
	Sister Sarah Kimball, here referred to some
meetings held in the early days and spoke
of the gifts of the Spirit that were poured
out. Said she would like to see meetings
like those now.
	Sister Sarah Phelps bore a fervent testi-
mony to the the truth of the work, and
concluded in the gift of tongues.
	Sister Minerva Snow gave the interpreta-
tion.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
good she had received in these meetings,
and made encouraging remarks. Made
reference to the work for the dead.
Thought the time for the second coming of
our Savior was near at hand.
	Sister Morris, said, “blessed are we my
sisters,” and prophecied of the great re-
ward for the faithful.
	Sister Morris of the eleventh Ward bore
an excellent testimony.
	Sister Leaker, and a sister in the con
gregation, each spoke well, and desired to
be faithful.
	Sisters sang, “There’s a feast of fat
things,” &c.
	Sister Margaret Brown spoke on Temple
work and added a strong testimony.
	Sister Maria Wilcox also spoke on Tem-
ple work, made other remarks.

[Column 3]
	Sister Rawlinson, added her testimony.
	Sang, “Do what is right.” Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Closed by singing,
“The time is far spent.” Benediction L.
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF
UTAH. 

	  LOGAN UTAH, July 23, 1895.
    [To the Commissioner of Education
Washington D. C.]

	SIR: In accordance with the require- 
ments of an act of Congress of August, 30
1890, I submit herewith a report of the
condition and progress of The Agricultural
College of Utah during the past school
year.
	The year has been a fairly successful one
in College work and in the patronage and
public encouragement the Institution has
received.
	The attendance of students for the year
reached a total of 360, as compared with a
total of 264 for the preceding year. The
average age of all students during the year
was 19.4 years, as compared with an aver-
age age of 18.8 the previous year. Two
pupils were graduated with degrees: one in
Agriculture, and one in Civil Engineering.
Last year there were four. This falling off
may have been due to the strengthening of
the required course of study over that of
the year previous. For the ensuing year
the courses have been still further developed
and strengthened. The most important
change in the curriculum is that the first
two years of all the four-year course for
male students are now identical, as shown
in the catalogue on page 11. The first two
years for lady students are the same as those
years for young men, except in shopwork
and in a portion of the mathematics, which
are replaced, in the ladies’ course, by cor-
responding work more suitable for women.
	The first two years comprise mainly those
general culture studies with which
every educated person is expected to be
familiar; while the last two years of each
course are composed largely of technical
study in the special lines of the course
chosen, but without wholly excluding the
so-called culture studies even in these years.
This departure is based upon the belief that
the educated man or woman as such,is bet-
ter fitted for the duties of life than is the
narrowly trained specialist, who lacks cul-
ture of the nature sought to be provided by
the general subjects. The other changes
consist mainly in a rearrangement, and, we
think, a more accurate grouping of major
and a more rigid subordination of minor
subjects, than heretofore. The regular
Faculty numbers twenty-two, with two ad-
ditional teachers in special subjects.
	The question of uniting the Agricultural
College with the University of Utah was
considered at length by the recent Terri-
torial Constitutional Convention, with the
final result of embodying in the proposed
Constitution a clause keeping these insti-
tutions separate as at present.
	I have no hesitation in saying that the
College is growing in the estimation of the
people generally, and that there is good
reason to expect a still more successful year
the coming season.
	Respectfully submitted,
	J. H. PAUL President


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BEAUTIFUL HANDS.

	ELLEN M. H. GATES.
SUCH beautiful, beautiful hands!
	They’re neither white nor small.
And you, I know, would scarcely think
	That they were fair at all.
I've looked on hands whose form and hue
	A sculptor’s dream might be; 
Yet those aged wrinkled hands,
	Are most beautiful to me.
Such beautiful, beautiful hands!
	Though heart were weary and sad,
These patient hands kept toiling on,
	That the children might be glad.
I almost weep, as looking back.
	To childhood’s distant day,
I think how these hands rested not,
	When mine were at their play.
Such beautiful, beautiful hands! 
	They’re growing feeble now,
For time and pain have left their mark
	On hand and heart and brow.
Alas! alas! the nearing time,
	And the sad, sad day to me,
When ’neath the daisies, out of sight,
	These hands will folded be.
But, oh! beyond this shadowland,
	Where all is bright and fair,
I know full well these dear old hands
	Will palms of victory bear!
Where crystal streams, through endless years,
	Flow over golden sands,
And where the old are young again,
	I’ll clasp my mother’s hands!


[Column 1]

THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

[Deputy Registrars must place the names
of women on the State Registration List.]
	OGDEN, Aug. 10.—When the court con-
vened this afternoon the District court room
was crowded with attorneys and prominent
citizens eager to hear the decision of Judge
H. W. Smith on the test case brought to
determine the right of women to vote for or
against the proposed Constitution and for
the election of State officers at the same
time. The decision was the principal topic
of discussion. The general guess seemed
to be that the court would decide that wo-
men could vote for the first State officers,
but not on the Constitution.
	In beginning his decision Judge Smith
stated the case succinctly, and that the facts
alleged in the affidavit for the writ of man-
date were admitted. Hence the only
question to be determined was the legal
propostion, whether women were entitled
at the coming election to vote for or against
the Constitution and for State officers then
to be elected, and whether under the law,
women are qualified voters entitled to use
the electoral privilege upon the questions.
It cannot be said that any partisan questions
enter into this discussion or decision, be-
cause no one has any knowledge of how the
decision of the question will affect the re-
sult of the coming election. It is a ques-
tion of construction only and the rules of
construction of legislative enactments are to
be closely followed so as to arrive at the full
and intended meaning of what legislation
and congressional enactments have been
made upon this point. No woman in the
Territory, I apprehend, wishes to vote un-
less she has the undoubted and explicit
right to do so, and this action is for the pur-
pose of determining her rights. Hence it
is of the greatest importance to determine
this question correctly in accordance with the

[Column 2]
full meaning intended by the Enabling Act,
and the acts of that convention that framed
the law which will be the law by which the
people of the Territory will be governed,
in the opinion of the court.
	The whole matter hinges principally
upon sections 24 and 19 of the Enabling
Act and upon the second section of the
declaration of rights. The first and second
sections of articles 4 of the Constitution,
and the 11th, 12th and 14th sections of the
schedule embraced in the Constitution.
	The court then quotes these sections and
says that the contention of the plaintiff is
that it was the duty of the Constitutional
Convention to designate who shall be the
electors generally and that they must per-
mit that class of persons named in the
second section of the Enabling Act to vote
upon the Constitution, and further that the
Constitutional Convention performed that
duty and created the electorate of the pro-
posed state, and that she falls within the
class of persons upon whom the franchise
has been conferred. In brief, that she and
all others upon whom the proposed Consti-
tution confers the franchise as well all those
persons upon whom it is conferred by the
act of Congress, are entitled to vote upon
its adoption or rejection.
	The claim of the defendent is that Con-
gress by the Enabling Act has created the
electorate that is to pass upon the adoption
or rejection of the Constitution, and that
the Constitutional Convention has provided
that the same electorate shall select the first
state officers vested in any individual or set
of individuals, but the right of voting is
purely conventional and is given or with-
held at the will of the legislative power.
It may be enlarged or restricted, granted or
withheld, and no one may complain, if done
in a uniform manner. Congress has never
attempted to say what person or persons
shall constitute the electorate of any state
but the opposite is affirmed by that consti-
tutional amendment which declares that the
powers not delegated to us by the Con-
stitution, nor prohibited by it, are reserved
to the states respectively, or to the people.
There is no attempt in the Constitution to
limit the power of any community or ex-
tend the franchise to any class of persons
that they may see fit to favor with it. In
this light it is doubtful if Congress ever in-
tended by the Enabling Act to provide an
electorate for selecting the first officers of
the State, and I do not think it would be
made within the power ot Congress.
	In the opinion of the court section 4 of
the Enabling Act ratified by the Constitu-
tional Convention and made a part of the
Constitution, provided a class of voters to
vote on the Constitution and this class are
the ones entitled to this vote. The voters
of the proposed State “the people” are
those upon whom the political responsibili-
ities and the duties are devolved and under
this, new Constitution men and women
have these responsibilities and duties; hence
the Constitution should be voted for or
against by these persons upon whom that
instrument places the duties and responsi-
bilities of electors.
	If I am right as to the test by which we
are to determine who are the qualified
voters of the proposed State of Utah, then
it seems clear to me that the plaintiff is en-
titled to vote both upon the adoption or re-
jection of the Constitution,and certainly for
the election of State officers of the pro
posed State of Utah.

[Column 3]
	This conclusion necessitates the issuance
of a peremptory writ of mandate and the
order will be that a peremptory writ issue
requiring the defendant to register the plain-
tiff as an elector of the second election pre-
cinct of Ogden city.”


A TRIBUTE TO THE LATE SISTER
        PRESINDA L. KIMBALL.

	HAVING been invited to attend a birth-
day party to be given in honor of the late
Presinda L. Kimball three years prior to
her death and not being able to attend I
sent the following lines, which I have
lately been requested to offer to the
EXPONENT for publication.
	DEAR AUNT PRESINDA.
With feelings of respect and love
And prayers for blessings from above 
Your name I now indite.
Beloved and honored for your worth
The day that ushered in your birth
Was fraught with peace and joy.
Such woes have mortals here to bear, 
One who can soothe and ease their care,
And lift their thoughts above;
To Him who ever will be nigh
To hear the humble, reverent cry 
Of those in anguish bowed;
The days that give such ones to earth,
Angels will surely note their birth 
As blessings to their race.
How oft you visit beds of pain
And pleading words like drops of rain
Upon the thirsty earth.
Call down from heaven like healing balm, 
And turn the suffer’s thoughts to Him,
With faith to make them whole.
The peace and joy you thus impart, 
Finds answering echo in your heart, 
And makes you doubly blessed. 
Truly a noble mission thine 
To cheer, to comfort and incline 
The hearts to righteousness.
What wonder we should dread to know,
Ere long you will be called to go, 
To reap a just reward.
A glorious crown you’ve surely won,
And when your work on earth is done,
And you are called away,
Oh, may we check the selfish tear,
Nor longer wish to keep you here, 
From those who've gone before;
Who’ve gladly marked your course below, 
And wait with lips and hearts aglow, 
To greet you in that home. 
	LAURA C. PACK


MRS. S. L. PRINDLE, better known as
“Mother Prindle,” who has for some years
been the matron of the Florence mission,
has gone to England by invitation of Lady
Henry Somerset to start a rescue home in
London.
	THE Wilmington, Del., W. C. T. U. has
received the gift of a lot worth $8,000 upon
which to erect an Industrial School for girls
	“ONE of the Springfield census enumera-
tors is a woman. She alone of the whole
force employed finished her duty within the
specified time. In any kind of reckoning
nowadays woman counts."


44 WOMAN'S EXPONENTS
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributer.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, S2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cut regular advertisers.
Exponent office. Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST 15, 1895.


RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY
CONFERENCE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion, will be held
in the Assembly Hall on Saturday, Sept.
21st. Meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is very desirable
that there should be an official representa-
tive from each branch of this Stake of
Zion and a full attendance of members is
requested.
	M. I. HORNE, PRESIDENT.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SECRETARY


[Column 1]
VISIT AND MEETINGS AT 
WILLARD.

	ON Friday August, 2nd, we visited Wil-
lard Box Eider Co. in company with Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Arriving at Brother
Hubbard’s we found a warm welcome and
a delicious supper awaiting us. Brother and
Sister Hubbard are veterans in the Church
and highly respected by all who have the
pleasure of their acquaintance,   old-
fashioned New Englanders, descendants of
the early Puritans. In the evening there
was a meeting of the W. S. A. of Willard,
and goodly number assembled, about one
third of the audience were men, the Bishop
was present and other leading brethren.
Miss Maria Zundell President of the As-
sociation presided in a very pleasing man-
ner. The singing from the suffrage song
book was excellent and the speeches by
both men and women were certainly edu-
cational and fitting to the present circum-
stances and condition of Utah in view of
statehood.
Saturday morning at ten o’clock the Re-
lief Society convened in the meeting house,
Mrs. M. A. Hubbard presiding. Bishop
Zundell made the opening prayer. Mrs.
Olivia Widerborg the venerable President
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
with her Corresponding Secretary Mrs.
Emilia D. Madson had driven over from
Brigham City to attend the meetings, which
was a very great gratification to the sisters
who are very fond of their Stake President,
there was quite a large congregation for a
morning meeting. Remarks Were made
by Sister Hubbard and her Counselors, also
President Zina D. H. Young and Sisters
Widerborg, Madson, Wells and others. The
subjects treated upon were the spiritual
needs of the members of the Society in
growth and development, uniformity of

[Column 2]
methods in the work of organization, the
benefits to be derived from such work and
association, and the need of employment for
those who were in want of assistance. In
this connection the silk industry was talked
of and Sisters Young and Wells urged the
sisters to active exertion in promoting seri-
culture.
	Quite a number of the sisters dined at
Sister Mary Harding’s enjoying the company
very much, as well as the luxuries provided
for their temporal needs.
	The meeting at two in the afternoon was
called for the Young Ladies Association of
Willard and Mrs. Jane Chandler presided.
Mrs. Alphonso Snow the Y. L. M. I. A.
Stake President of Box Elder was also
present from Brigham City and there was a
fine audience of girls and young women,
and a few boys as the President of the
Primary Association of Willard, had called
the older members of the P. A. to meet
with the Y. L. and they occupied one side
of the house. It was an inspiring audience,
one realized the beauty and strengh of
health and vigor physical and spiritual.
The whole tenor of the remarks made were
in a spirit of exhortation and encourage-
ment to the young to continue in the paths
of virtue and uprightness, to seek for
wisdom knowledge and understanding, and
to become useful in their day and time up-
on the earth; to be helpful to those around
them and diligent in the performance of
every duty devolving upon them as mem-
bers of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
and strive to set examples worthy of imita-
tion, and attain to excellence in all good
works, that they might become bright and
shining lights to those about them having
an understanding of the truths revealed in
the last days. The speakers were Sisters
Chandler, Snow, Madsen, Widerborg,
Young, Wells. Dudley, Hubbard and
others; these sisters also talked to the
children of the Primary in a very pleasing
way calculated to interest them, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young asked them a number of
questions upon Church matters, which were
promptly answered by the little folks.
	Altogether the visit to Willard and the
meetings were very pleasant and satisfac-
tory to the visiting sisters. The singing
was excellent at all the meetings and was
one of the happy features of the gatherings,
as good music adds much to the tone of all
assemblies and is always uplifting in its
tendency.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE afternoon session of the General
Conference of the Relief Society, April 4th,
1895 was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, commencing at 2 p. m.
	On the stand were Sisters Young, Rich-
ards, Smith, Horne, Snow, John, Hinckley,
Barber, Taylor, and Wells. Singing, "O,
my Father, thou thatdwellest,” Mrs. Mary
John reported Utah Stake in good condition,
twenty-five branches, “We sent a Delegate
from Utah County to the W. S. A. Con-
vention at Atlanta and to the National
Council in Washington. We have wheat
stored against a time of need in our stake,
about six-hundred bushels, and shall go on
gathering more. The Relief Society is a
great school for us all I am also interested
in the franchise and believe it will be a
benefit and blessing to us.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the good ac-

[Column 2]
complished by the Relief Society, and
of paying honor to whom honor is due—
the works of the Relief Society are charity
and love and blessing—“Sisters always
pray for those who are over you, pray for
Sister Zina she needs your aid and assist-
ance and faith and prayers, teach your
children these things, and do not neglect
them, keep in their remembrance the lives
and characters of our great and good
men and women.” Mentioned Sister
Presendia Kimball, Sister Heywood, Sister
Howard and others.
	Sister Smith spoke about our sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society longer
ago than those who were mentioned by
Sister Taylor, because perhaps she was
older, Spoke of Sister Whitney, Sister Em-
ma Smith, Mary Ann Young, Vilate
Kimball and others, and how faithful they
had been in the midst of great trials, she
felt to speak of these sisters because she
had known them personally.
	President Young talked of our having
a Conference in June and of spending more
time in meetings, and not be carried away
with the vanities of the world. She had
seen men who had talked with the Lord,
and had seen them fall away, and make
mistakes, we must be humble, and full of
faith and charity, &c. We want to have
time in our Conference to do our business
and bear our testimonies, we want to bless
you and help you, and the same good spirit
is with the sisters elsewhere that is in the
temple; we must bear with each other and
not be lifted up because of our knowledge;
wisdom is what is needed to walk in the
ways of the Lord.
	Sister Hinckley, of Milliard Stake, made
a few remarks in reference to the stake in
which she lived. A prayer was offered by
Sister Young in reference to the Suffrage
movement in Convention at the present
time—(this afternoon) the prayer was fol-
lowed by those present all joining. Sister
Martha Tonks, Counselor Morgan Stake
Relief Society made an excellent report of
the stake and spoke well in reference to the
Society and prayed that we might prosper
in the land.
	Sister Ruth Hatch represented the Snow-
flake Stake, one circumstance particularly
of the one doctor in the stake having to
carry the mail instead of doctoring the
people, in order to earn his living; a factory
was in progress of building, sisters were
appointed on the board to help; the word
of wisdom was kept, even aged sisters
keeping it strictly. She felt diffident in
reporting the affairs of the stake and yet
willing to do her part; wherever there is
sickness or sorrow the sisters are there.
Counselor Jane S. Richards thought there
were many things to think of and to talk
about—Sister Young talked of a Confer-
ence in June—it would be between the
other two conferences neither too hot nor
too cold nor two wet nor too dry, and about
right and we could have testimonies and
experiences, we’ve heard some today from
the stand and there were as many in front
who have something to say and could edify
us, if we should happen to find it wouldn’t
be such a terrible thing, nothing ventured
even if we should fail—Young Ladies who
a while ago were young ladies, you are
welcome to stay in the Y. L. but I want
you to come along and help the aged people,
my daughter is fourty, she’s been fifteen
years in the Relief Society; only the other
day, I found a lot of Emily’s reports as a


[Column 1]
teacher; but we do ask them, the younger
women, to belong to the Relief Society we
do ask and pray and work for the Lord to
favor Zion, and for us to be favored
of the Lord—husbands come to look after
the testimony of their wives—spoke of an
orphan child who had been very diligent,
her father came and asked if she might be the
secretary. I got a letter from her that she
had resigned and was moving away—Sister
Eliza had been so kind to this little secre-
tary whose father used to come and tend
the children while she t[-]ok the minutes,
and it was acting a father’s and mother’s
part.
	Sister Richards moved and it was second-
ed that we have a Conference in June, the
president put the motion and the sisters
voted standing upon their feet, the vote was
unanimous.
	A notice was read, by the Secretary, from
Sister Sorenson, and Sister Zina made some
remarks upon it and of Sister Sorenson.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet, ”&c. Prayer by M. W. Snow.
June 4, 1895.
	EVENING SESSION.—Prayer by Bishop
Madsen. Sang, “For the strength of the
hills we bless thee.” Sister Robertson, of
Orangeville, Emery Co. gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society in that Stake, all
felt well and were doing a good work &c.
	Hannah A. Crosby, of Panguitch, gave
a good report of that stake, though she was
very timid, said it was hard for the sisters
to go to some places and could not unless
accompanied by brethren, as it would not
be safe, the long distance across unsettled
lands and camping out—at night.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards prefered to hear
from the sisters in the congregation; the
signs of the times are important and excit-
ing and she did not wish to be misunder-
stood, some of us are desirous and anxious
some more than others, we who have
brought up these young men in the Con-
vention why are we not good enough to
sit there by them; some men who have been
called to fill high places, and had the votes
of the people, have raised opposition to wo-
men voting. In the world ever since
Joseph organized the Relief Society the wo-
men of the whole world are trying to have
something in the shape of rights, we should
have these privileges and stand by the side
of men and help them. It seems so
pleasant to go from house to house and at-
tend to the sick and needy and it is good to
live for the Gospel—the Lord will help us
to do good, we feel refreshed and blest in
doing kind acts for others.
	President Joseph F. Smith said:—I have
felt impressed all day with a desire that I or
some one or more of the brethren might be
present with you during this conference,
that you might, at least, have the encourage-
ment that their presence might give, to
help you in your important labors. The
reason why President Woodruff is not
more often in the meetings of the Society,
is because, not only of his extreme age,
now being over 88—but because he is over-
whelmed with a multitude of other duties,
that make it physically impossible for him,
to do more than he is constantly doing.
The fact is he often does more than he
shogld.
	President Cannon has been a great deal
away from home of late, on important
business. He returned from the east this
morning, and the Presidency and twelve
have been occupied all day, in council, in
the consideration of important and pressing

[Column 2]
matters. I have thought of your confer-
ence many times during the day, and felt a
desire to come here, as requested by Aunt
Zina and others, to be present, and to lis-
ten to you if nothing more; therefore after
being released from my labors for the day,
I determined I would attend this meeting.
We have many temporal duties to perform,
which are in themselves essential, but we
are not all temporal, neither are we all
spiritual, and it is very difficult to deter-
mine just where the temporal ends and the
spiritual begins, since we are both tempor-
al and spiritual, and both are blended into
one. It is wise not to run to either extreme.
Joseph the Prophet organized the Relief
Society and it has been a help to the church
in many ways. The good influence of the
societies is greatly needed in social life, and
also in the homes of the Saints, over your
sons and daughters, as well as for the bene-
fit of the poor and needy. Your influence
should be potent for good. Everything
that tends to good is of God, and is a help
to the authorities of the church, local and
general for the grand object of their labors
is to do good in the world, and diminish
evil and wrong as much as possible until
righteousness shall reign from the “rivers
to the ends of the earth.”
	Referring to the subject of woman’s
rights he said in substance: he thought
many women were extremely careless and
indifferent to their rights. This was caused
to some extent by ignorance, and thought-
lessness, and to some extent by tradition.
We inherit much from the fathers, and
some of the relics of the dark ages, not to
say of barbarism are still cherished by some
people to their hurt. Accustomed to things
as they were and are, they rest content and
seek no changes, however much for the bet-
ter a change might be. But he could get
along with this class better than with such
as would not only make no exertion them-
selves to progress, but would and did exert
themselves to prevent the progression of
others. He regarded such as enemies to
society. Not intentionally perhaps, but
actually so whatever might be the cause of
their conduct.
	For his part, he wanted women to enjoy
every blessing, privilege, right or liberty
which he himself enjoyed in the legitimate
pursuit of happiness in this world or in the
world to come. The only differences or
distinctions that should be regarded or
recognized are those of nature or of sex.
We should guard with sacredness the des-
tinction which God himself has created,
they are inevitable, and we could not if we
would deface or change them, but God nev-
er did design that a woman should receive
less for the product of her labor, whether
of hand or brain, skilled or meniel than a
man should receive for the same labor no
better executed than hers. Nor did he de-
sign that women should be required to bear
equal burdens with men without sharing
equally the benefit thereof.
	He would not attempt to make a com-
parison of the difference between mans and
woman’s physical and mental capabilities
for they were questions foreign to the one
now affecting the public mind. The ques-
tion is, shall women be as free as men or
not, shall the male citizen have a voice in
civil government because he is a male,
and a female citizen be denied the same
privilege simply because she is a female?
Shall a man indignantly resent “taxation
without representation,” and a woman not
o likewise, or tamely submit to that which

[Column 3]
must be as great a wrong to her as it can be
to him, simply because she is a woman and
he a man? Man and woman are begotten
of the same father. are born of the same
mother, possess the same life, breathe the
same air, feel the some cold or heat, hunger
or thirst, pleasure or pain; eat the same
food, wear the same fabrics wrought only
in different forms and fashions; exist by the
same means, both bear the divine image
and possess the same divine nature. They
are born, live and die and live again for the
one great and glorious purpose. They are
indispensible to each other, each is the
complement of the other, both for this
world and the world to come, for time and
for all eternity. Then why shall one en-
joy civil rights and the other be denied
them? Why shall one be admitted to al
the avenues of mental and physical progress
and prosperity and the other be prohibited,
and prescribed within certain narrow limits,
to her material abridgment and detriment?
Do not women eat bread as well as men?
Shall men be favored as bread-winners, and
women be handicapped in their effort to win
bread? Shall a man be paid higher wages
than is paid to a woman for doing no bet-
ter than she does the very same work?
Shall the avenues for employment be mul-
tiplied to men and diminished to women
by the mere dictum or selfishness of men?
If man can perform labor for which wo-
man is physically disqualified, let him en-
joy the monopoly of it; let the same be
said of woman. By what process of reason-
ing can it be shown that a woman stand-
ing at the head of a family, with all the
responsibility resting upon her to provide
for them, should be deprived of the aven-
ues and ways or means that a man is like
circumstance may enjoy to provide for them?
Yet many of these unwholesome conditions
do exist, and that too vastly to the detri-
ment of women, not withstanding which
strange to say, women may be found who
seem to glory in their enthralled condition,
and who caress and fondle the very chains
and manacles which fetter and enslave
them! Let those who love this helpless de-
pendent condition and prefer to remain in
it and enjoy it; but for conscience and for
mercy’s sake let them not stand in the
way of those of their sisters who would
be, and of right ought to be free. Let
them who will not enter into the door of
equal rights and impartial suffrage step
aside, and leave the passage clear to those
who desire to enter. It is said if the wo-
men have equal rights they must bear equal
burdens with the men. They do this al-
ready except that their burdens are made
unequal in that they are deprived of the
enjoyment of equal rights. Yes but, says
the objector, they must sit on juries, they
must serve as policemen, sherriffs, mar-
shals, soldiers, &c. Well, let them do so
if they want to. and can get such office.
But what nonsense this is, it is all right
for them to be qualified for any and all
positions, and to possess the right or privi-
lege to fill them, but that they must as so
does not follow. There are many men in
every community who never sat on a jury,
never having been called to do so, nor to
be a soldier, or to do any duty, nor to be
sherriff, policemen, marshals, nor even
governors or judges, and yet they have pos-
sessed all the qualifications to fill any of these
positions. Therefore why shall the women
be compelled to do things because she has
the franchise that men are not compelled to
do! Many women are afraid of woman’s


suffrage because office loving, office seeking,
office monopolizing men have tried to
frighten them from seeking their right
thereby, possibly, lessening the chances for
those same office-loving men to get and
hold the offices of state.
	Let no woman be detered for a moment
from her whole duty, by such contemptible
twaddle.
	Brother Robinson, from Wayne Stake
was a little anxious to meet with some of
our brethren and sisters from his home; en-
joyed the remarks of all to-night—speaking
for them, the sisters are awake to the Relief
Society work, the principles of truth and
the youth of Zion and in the unity and in
the harmony; the world will follow your
examples.
	Sister Woodbury felt to endorse what
President Smith had said she felt that we
should have equal rights with men.
	Sister E. S. Richards spoke of the build-
ing which we ought to have and so on,
made other remarks we have had many
suggestions made here, we are a blest
people, we want to establish ourselves—I
beg your pardon for taking the time. 
Singing, Doxology, dismissed with prayer,
	E.B. Wells.


We Raise to Thee.” Sister Lucy W.
Kimball offered a very beautiful prayer.
Singing “Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day
of Salvation.” Minutes of the afternoon
session of the previous conference read and
approved. The 19th and 20th Wards were
reported. A letter from Sister Elmina S.
Taylor resigning her position as First
Counselor in the organization of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, was
read by the Secretary, also a letter of res -
ignation from the second Counselor Helen
Mar Whitney.
	President M. I. Horn, felt very sorry to
have to perform so unpleasant a task, for
all knew what good and noble women Sis-
ter Taylor and Sister Whitney were, but
Sister Taylor has long been overburdened
with her many other duties, and Sister
Whitney whom we love so dearly, has for
a long time been in such poor health that
the office has been a burden upon her. Yet
the duties of the society are constantly in-
creasing and I feel I must have help.
Therefore as it has been moved and
seconded these resignations be accepted I
submit it to you. The motion received a
pathetic response. And a vote of thanks
were tendered to the Sisters for their faith-
ful labors.
	President A. M. Cannon spoke of each of
the sisters in the highest terms of praise
and felt that none could have more ability
to hold this office, and that President Horne
would not be able to get any one to do as
much as she does herself. There are so
many who are competent, one person should
not be overburdened with offices. Presi-
dent Horne said she had made this a mat-
ter of prayer and had chosen Sister Annie
T. Hyde as First Counselor and Sister
Clara C. Cannon as her Second Counselor.
They were unanimously accepted; Sisters
Hyde and Cannon expressed a willingness
to accept the office and do all they could to
advance the work of the society. Presidents
C. W. Penrose and J. E. Taylor gave some
excellent and timely instruction as did also
President Z. D. H. Young and Sister Lucy
Kimball: Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Clara
C. Cannon were set apart as Counselors to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion by the Presidency of
the Stake.
	The officers of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, and also the officers of this
Stake were presented by the Secretary and
heartily sustained by those present. T'he
Secretary also urged Secretaries to be
prompt in sending in their yearly repo
immediately after June 30th; and also 
take the Exponent, whereby they might
be kept in touch and familiar with what
women were doing and what they  would
be expected to do in the future.
	Conference closed by singing, Doxology
Prayer by Bishop Samuel Atwood.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Secretary.
        				
	BUNKERVILLE, NEVADA.
	Editor Exponent: —It is with pleasure
we address a few lines to you hoping they
will meet your approval and thinking it
might be of some interest to you to know
we have a Relief Society organized here and
in good running order. We have our
monthly testimony meetings in which our
much loved little paper is read, with pleas-
ure.  We hold our meetings on Fast Day
in the afternoon and generally have. very
good attendance. Sister Mary Bunker and
myself take the Exponent together and we


feel as though we could not do without it.
Wishing you success I remain yours truly,
	HARRIET M. EARL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Utah Woman’s Press Club, was held in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT Office, July 31st,
1895. Vice-President Ruth M. Fox pre-
siding. Opened with prayer by Mrs.
Phoebe C. Young. Roll call answered
with sentiments from John Ruskin. A let-
ter and a poem from President Ellis R.
Shipp, M. D., was read by the secretary.
A motion was made and carried that the
secretary answer the letter, sending love
and appreciation from the club. Honorary-
president E. B. Wells then read a beautiful
original poem, “A Voice from the Moun-
tains.”
	As Dr. R. B. Pratt, who had been ap-
pointed to lecture on the Single Tax Ques-
tion, was absent, Mrs. E. B. Wells read a
letter from Carrie Chapman Catt—of the
N.W. S. A. outlining a plan for a course
of study on government. To hear the
pamphlet gave one a desire to be familiar
with the forms of government.
	The program for the next meeting is
—Answer to roll call with sentiments from
Mrs. Dorathea Felicia Hemans. The Sin-
gle Tax—Romania B. Pratt. Life of Vi-
late Kimball, Edith Rossiter. Poem, Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Song, Miss Pearl Russell.
Meeting adjourned until Aug. 31st. Dis-
missed by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder.
	L. S. WILCOX, Secretary.


LETTER TO U. W. P. C.

	WILLOW BEND, July, 30th, 1895.
Dear Friends:
	LIFE seems one endless contradiction of
itself, its pendulum swings continuously from
one extreme to another.
	Thus when I wrote you last I was in the
far north, now I am drifted to southern
climes, so far, in fact, that I find myself at
this writing, unable to join my little band
at our regular gathering.
	This is a beautiful little oasis, a green
spot in a wilderness, as it were, the regions
round about being of red clay, even many


of the hills in this vicinity are of the same
color and have a barren appearance, with-
out vegetation, but as we find good in
everything here are located important Salt
Mines.
	Traveling southward we are at once
struck with the artistic outline and color-
ing of the surrounding mountains. It
seems to me any one raised in Utah has a
natural or instinctive love for the dear old
mountains, there is a peculiar charm about
those in the vicinity of my early home to
me they seem as old friends ever faithful
and true, constant and unchanging, and
when in a new country my eyes enjoy these
rugged formations. I study their physical
arrangement, their history and origin as I
am wont to study the characteristics of new
acquaintances and friends I make in life.
	But I imagine you, my dear friends, at
the present time more absorbed with the
political phase of woman’s career than with
literature, poetry, or art, and I trust that in
the near future the great problem will be
solved to your individual satisfaction and
for our mutual benefit.
	In the meantime please push on the in-
terests of the club and find in it joy, satis-
faction and continued progress.
	With kind love to all I am as ever yours,
ELLIS R. SHIPP.


R. S. AND P. A. 

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The regular quarterly conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was held in
the Assembly Hall June 15th, 1895. Pres-
dent M. I Horne presiding. Present on
the stand of the Central Board, President
Z. D. H. Young, Counselors Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith, also Mary
Ann Hyde, President R. S. Sanpete and
Sisters Lucy V. Kimball and Maria W.
Wilcox. Meeting commenced by singing
“Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salva-
tion.” Prayer by Lydia D. Alder con-
tinued by singing “O! Say What is Truth.”
Minutes of the morning session of the pre-
vious conference read and approved. Pres-
dent Horne was glad to see so many pres-
ent and wanted to see them come close
together, the spirit of the Gospel was to
draw people together it is necessary for us
to pass through trials that we may become
perfect we should wake up to our many
duties. The suffrage has now come to us,
and with it new duties. We must not be
indifferent to those privileges which will
bring to ourselves a better government.
	Verbal reports of the different wards were
then called for. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th,
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th and 18th were all reported
as doing well.
	President Horne urged the several
branches to pay up their dues, would not
continue the reports longer, as all would
like to hear President Angus M. Cannon.
	President Cannon felt pleased to see our
conference so well attended, and had been
much interested in hearing the reports
given of the work being done in the differ-
ent branches. Urged the Sisters to press
forward and be faithful in performing their
duties.
	Meeting closed by singing “Lord Dis-
miss Us With Thy Blessing.” Prayer by
President A. M. Cannon.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
Meeting commenced by singing “Our God


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CORFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 13, AND
14, 1895.

	THE Conference was called to order by
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, president of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah. Prayer was offered by Rev. Anna
Shaw.
	Mrs. Wells introduced the Governor of
Utah, Hon. Caleb W. West, who wel-
comed the guests.
ADDRESS By GOVERNOR WEST.
Ladies And Gentlemen:
	I am informed that this is an assemblage
under the auspices of the National Ameri-
can Woman’s Suffrage Association. It is
one of the four Conferences that has been
provided for to be held in the United States
the present year in the interest of Woman’s
Suffrage. I am very glad to know that our
City and our Territory has been selected for
the holding of this Conference. I think
that it was wisely chosen because in the
Convention that assembled here during the
past month to form the organic law which
will make Utah one of the States of the
Union, moved by the spirit of the people
behind them they wisely, justly and
judiciously provided that there should be
no discrimination of sex in this new State.
Therefore it is meet and proper that those
who agreed with our people upon this sub-
ject should meet here in Council and in Con-
ference to devise ways and means to fur-
ther the cause that is so dear to the hearts
of many noble and self-sacrificing women.
	Now upon this occasion I don’t deem it
necessary or proper that I should attempt
to discuss the question—I have not as I un-
derstand it been invited here for that pur-
pose. The distinguished honor which was
done me in asking me to come here this
morning is to present to this audience a
woman who is known not only over our
whole land but over the civilized world,
one who has devoted her noble self-sacrific-
ing life to the cause of her sex, and in so
doing of course has devoted it in the high-
est sense to humanity. Now a word of in-
troduction here is entirely unnecessary I am
sure: in fact Susan B. Anthony was known
to the people of Utah long before it ever
knew your humble servant and speaker.
Twenty-five years ago as I understand Miss
Anthony paid a visit to this Territory. I
believe upon that occasion she was pre-
sented to its people by the distinguished
citizen who was then Mayor, who is now
dead, Mayor Daniel H. Wells. Now then
I trust and believe that Miss Anthony has
come with very pleasant recollections of
her visit; that she has returned to us now
is a matter of congratulation and pleasure,
and I trust that she upon this occasion will
find her visit both pleasant and profitable.
I can assure those ladies who have come
to visit us, that there is but little doubt that
the Constitution which has been made in
this hall and which will be submitted to
the people, our people at the November
election, will be carried by an overwhelm-
ing majority as it ought to be. (applause.)

[Column 2]
	Now permit me to introduce to you Miss
Susan B. Anthony. (applause)
REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	My good Friends:—This is the second
time on which I have been honored by the
Governor of a state to open our meeting,
to make the introductory speech. The
other night in Cheyenne Gov. Richards
made the opening address and presented
the speakers. Now to-day Governor West
of this Territory has made the opening ad-
dress of this Conference and I want you
my dear women to ask how it happened
that it should be those two Inter-mountain
States in which women hold the right of
suffrage, in which women are absolutely
clothed with that power in one state, and
have borne to the ballot box the vote not
only at City and State elections but at the
last general Presidential election absolutely
went to the ballot box and voted for the
President—how it happened that woman’s
enfranchisement is fully recognized—that
this Territory in its organic law to be pre-
sented to Congress has engrafted in it this
primal idea of perfect equality of rights to
women, civil and polttical, how it happened
that the highest officials of these two moun-
tain States should come to the front and in-
troduce at the meeting, or present the speak-
ers at a meeting of this sort. I don’t be-
lieve you could have gotten the Governor
of the State of New York or Pennsylvania
or the Governors of any of the older states;
I don’t believe you could have impressed it
upon the minds of any one of those Gover-
nors that it would be an honor to him as
well as an honor to the audience or people
to come forward and occupy this position.
It is because the women of this Territory
when it becomes a State are to be the
equals of the men, that it is best for the
man holding the highest position in the
State to take this position. I shall never
forget an incident which occurred in Wash-
ington last year after a majority of the men
of the State of Colorado had gone to the
ballot box and voted to place the ballot in
the hands of the women of the Centennial
State, when invited to come to our meeting
every representative of Wyoming and every
representative of the new State of Colorado
was present to bear his testimony to the
g[-]eat principle of equality of rights, and I
presented those men to the large audience
assembled in the City of Washington and I
made the remark that while representatives
and others of the entire state of New York
had been going to Washington for the last
quarter of a century making appeals and ad-
dresses before Congressional Committees as
well as other large audiences we never yet
had such a delegation of members of Con-
gress and the Senators in the United States
senate come to the hotel to pay their re-
spects to the New York delegate, to our
Convention—nor had I ever known of the
representatives of the whole delegation,
Congressional delegation from any other
State in the Union to have come to the con-
vention to make their assertion that they
believed in equality of rights for women, it
is not until women actually hold the power
of the ballot in their hands that the mass of
government officials in each of the States
will ever think of it, will even know that
women are a part of the people. So I con-
gratulate all of you upon this fact that in
this great Conference that is assembled here
that three states out of the forty-five, [for
I consider your State virtually in the Union]
three states ont of the forty-five have

[Column 3]
recognized this fundamental principle of the
right of women to an equal voice in the
government with men. Is it not remark-
able that for over a hundred years since our
Revolutionary Fathers made the declara-
tion that all men are created equal, that
governments derive their just power from
the consent of the governed, that taxation
without representation is tyranny, is it not
remarkable that it has taken one hundred
years to convince the men that women
were a part of all men who are created
equal and that women are a part of the
governed whose consent should be given or
with-held from the government, that wo-
men as tax payers have a right to represen-
tation, that to tax women without confer-
ring the right of representation was equally
tyrannous to women as to men, is it not re-
markable that it has taken one hundred
years and more to convince and educate the
men of this nation that women are a part
of the men, a part of the people, a part of
those whose consent should be given or
witheld in every government organization
of the City, State and nation. But now
this point has been obtained, this justice
has been accorded in three of the States
wholly, and in one of the states partially,
they have municipal suffrage in the state of
Kansas and in twenty-three of the states
they enjoy the privilege of voting on
school matters and in five more the question
of equal suffrage is pending. This ques-
tion has come to be discussed and agitated
in every possible, public assembly.
	You can scarcely enter an educational con-
vention or a convention for the good of the
different religious denominations, a scientific
convention, a political convention of any
sort that the question of granting equal
rights to women is not uppermost. Dur-
ing the last two years there is scarcely a
legislature that has not had this question
of the extension of suffrage to women un-
discussion and has had a bill presented and
in many cases voted upon it. In most of
the cases where the bill passed one house
it failed to pass in the other. In several of
the states a bill for the submission of the
question has been passed by both houses so
that in five of the states in the Union to-
day the question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is now pending. The legislatures of
Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California and
New York have during the past year passed
this resolution so that the whole question,
or the question of giving the right of suf-
frage to women is being seriously consider-
ed. So now you may say it is only a ques-
tion of time as some of our friends have
been wont to answer us in the days gone by
and now the question has become one of a
very short time when every possible gather-
ing of men and women under the stars and
stripes and will discuss the question.
	When such a splendid majority in your
Constitutional Convention gave their voice
in favor of this perfect equal recognition
for the women of this country. I stand
here to congratulate the men of the Ter-
ritory of Utah for if the rank and file, if the
vast mass of the men who go to the ballot
box in the Territory of Utah had been op-
posed to the enfranchisement of women,
then the representatives in this convention
held during the last month would never
have felt justified in having incorporated
that splendid suffrage clause in the Con-
stitution, it is because the rank and file of
the men and women of this Territory have
been educated into the idea of perfect


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


equality of rights for women that the con-
vention was able to pass that resolution
and incorporate the suffrage clause giving
equal rights to women. So it is not only
the men of the convention that have to be
congratulated but the men all over the Ter-
ritory who are the constituents of these
representative men in convention assembled.
Representative men cannot do much beyond
what the rank and file of their constituents
shall demand, and the women of Utah
must remember when they hold the ballot
in their hands that their representatives in
the legislature will be able to do but very
little beyond the majority of the rank and
file, the representatives are always to con-
form to the fountain, and the fountain can
rise no higher than the source that feeds it.
So legislation can do but little more than
what is demanded by the vast majority of
the rank and file of the voters. Therefore
I congratulate not only the representatives
who sat in this hall of the great and
glorious Constitution which is to be pre-
sented to the voters of this Territory for
ratification, I congratulate the rank and
rfile of the voters all over the state for hav-
ing made demands in their respective
localities to produce this splendid results.
	But I want to say to you that as President
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion I am here for the purpose of looking
into this new constituency of the Woman’s
Suffrage Association and I am here to take
the chair in this convention by virtue of
having been re-elected by the delegates
representing the thirty-six different states
and societies of the Union composing the
National. Ever since we were fairly or-
ganized Utah has always been with us and
among us to help to make and to establish
and to maintain the National Woman Suf-
frage Association. We have always had
with us the delegates from Utah. Nearly
always have we had with us the lady who
is now the President of our Territorial As-
sociation Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells who
represented the women of this Territory at
the Convention in Washington. As I am
President by the choice of the delegates
sent from those thirty-six states I feel
highly honored with my position and I am
delighted to be here and I congratulate you
in their name and on their behalf in the
grand step that has been taken by your Con-
stitutional Convention in contributing to
the admission of Utah as a State giving
the equality of Suffrage to women. (Ap-
plause.)


COOKING IN AN ELECTRIC OVEN.

		MARVELS IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE.

	ENGLISH electricians deserve much credit
for the practical way in which they have
solved many of the problems arising out of
development in electrical cookery. A well-
known writer on the chemistry of cookery
has given it as his opinion that the perfect
arrangement for an oven would be the
radiation of its heat from all sides. This
is now done in an electric oven which is
having a large sale in London. The pro-
cess is said to produce a cooked meat abso-
lutely wholesome and extremely appetizing.
There is no combustion whatever in the
oven, and the food, being cooked in a pure
atmosphere, cannot possibly be tainted.
The heat is turned on at any part merely
by the movement of a switch. It is pro-
duced inside the oven, and it is so conserved
that after the oven is once made hot what is


required to carry on the process is little 
more than sufficient to make up for slight
leakages. The electric oven can be put on
the kitchen dresser when needed, and it
throws practically neither heat nor smell.
Tabulated lists are provided from which, the
weight and description of the joint being
given, full instructions are derived as to the
time and temperature of the required cook-
ing. Roast mutton takes a temperature of
330 degrees Fahrenheit, beef 340 degrees
and a heat of 370 degrees is needed to give
puff pastry its desirable tint and consistency.
The comparative coolness of the outside of
the oven is a singular feature; as the chief
remarked at a recent dinner: “You could
sit down on the oven while you roast in-
side ”—Boston Traveller.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN COLORADO.

	ALICE THACHER POST, in The New
Earth, gives the following notes taken by
her during a recent visit to Colorado. It is
a good antidote for the unfavorable report
of a "sporting man," Bat Masterson, lately
published in the Boston Post:
	During a recent journey through Colo-
rado my husband and I naturally asked
questions in regard to the practical work-
ing of the suffrage recently granted to wo-
men of that State.
	To our first question, put to the National
Single Tax Committeemen for Colorado,
came promptly the answer:
	"It has dignified the suffrage."
	Mr. Bucklin went on to say that the wo-
men had taken their duties very seriously;
that they had attired themselves with care,
and had made it the important business of
that day.
	That they dressed themselves especially
for the occasion was corroborated elsewhere,
and it delighted me greatly. If women
thought of the suffrage as a masculine
function, in its exercise they would imitate
men, and go to the polls in their everyday
marketing gowns. But no, it is a feminine
function and it is to be exercised in feminine
fashion. And when a woman has a serious
decision to make or duty to perform, she
dresses herself with care. Therefore they
put on their good clothes when they go to
the polls.
	In most cases husbands and wives had
gone together to the polls.
	And how were the polls?
	Orderly and clean. The party in power
had not dared to have them otherwise, lest
they should lose some of the women's votes.
They were in better condition than the post
office. Loafers were kept away from them,
and no drunkenness was to be seen upon
the streets during the whole day. I had
always maintained that if the polls were
"not fit places for women" they could
easily be made so, but it had not occurred
to me that the mere fact of the woman's
having a vote would compel their cleaning.
	Had political differences caused any
family dissensions?
	The idea was scouted.
	Did the women vote as their husbands
voted?
	Probably they usually did, but not in all
cases. Two women told me with amuse-
ment that their husbands had never asked
how they voted, and only knew by inference.
Mr. Bucklin gave us a new idea. Suppose
the wife does vote as her husband votes and
without the exercise of individual opinion, 
that to a degree gives the man two votes.


But those two votes represent the family
idea in the State; and our committeeman
holds that the vote of a married man, the
head of a family, is likely to be worth more
to the community than the vote of the ir-
responsible bachelor, the incomplete man—so
that it is not a bad idea to have it sometimes
counted for more.
	Where the women’s votes did tell, as such
was very naturally and properly in matters
of communal housekeeping, as in a city
which had been overidden by a monopolistic
alkaline water company, where the women
voted overwhelmingly for a pure mountain-
water supply.


OBITUARIES.

	IN memory of Mrs. Julia Ann Whittaker Moss,
wife of David Moss, one of the Mormon Battalion
who died May 22, 1895, at her home in St. George.
She was born in England, March 11th, 1835, and
was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Amaison
Whittaker; she came with her parents to Utah in
1850, and with her husband was called to Dixie
thirty years ago, she leaves one son and two
daughters, and her aged companion, and ten
grand children to mourn her loss; she was a lov-
ing wife and mother, she performed a noble work
in the St. George Temple for the dead. May we
who still remain, do as well as she has done.
				BETSY G. WHITTAKER.
	DIED at Goshen Utah, June 1st, 1895, our aged
and respected Sister, Ann Gardener in her ninety
first year. She was born the 27th of April 1805,
in Glasgow Scotland. She obeyed the gospel in
1852, and like many others, through obeying the
Gospel, was left a widow with her family to sup-
port. She emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossing the
plains in Captain Dan McArthurs Company of
handcarts with her three sons and two daughters,
enduring bravely all the hardships incident to
such a journey. She leaves three sons and one
daughter, forty-two grand children and thirty-
five great grand-children and numerous friends
to mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, and a teacher in our Relief Society, we
wish to cherish her memory and offer these
Resolutions of Respect.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has taken from our midst our aged and beloved
sister and co laborer, we wish to emulate her vir-
tues and her noble qualities.
	Whereas—She was patient and cheerful through
all her trials, and faithful in the performance of
her duties, in fact her whole life in particular was
given to God and his service, and our long and
continued relation with her, make it imperative
that we record our appreciation of her.
	Therefore be it Resolved that the wisdom and
ability and labors of our beloved sister be held in
grateful remembrance.
	Also Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions
be copied in our record of the Goshen Relief
Society, and one given to the bereaved relatives
and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
	We say with the poet Sloan,
		“Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
			Their wearied bodies down
		Who leave this frail and mortal clay
			To seek a fadeless crown.”
	EMMA L. JENKINS, MARTHA CHRISTENSON,
ELISON GOURLEY—Committee.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14th.
Tuition $50.00	Residence 238 East, 4th
South.	Telephone 383.

		CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office 75 F. street, Salt
Lake City, (Deseret Hospital is closed) com-
mences class in midwifery October 9, 1895.
Write for particulars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, AND 15, 1895.		No.7–8.


CONTENTS:
	Women May Not Vote. Emery Co. W. S. A.—
Josie E. Childs. Mrs. May Wright Sewall. R. S.
Reports—Cassia And San Juan Stakes. Ladies'
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Vilate R. Young. Re-
lief Society Conference. Hygienic Cookery—J.
S. W. Conference N. A. W. S. A. In Rural
England—A Story.
	EDITORIAL:—Work And Wait. Editorial
Note.
	POETRY:—In September—Hattie Whitney
A Love Song To A. Wife—Quiver. Not on The
Lintel—E. T. Reflections And Memories—Lydia
D. Alder.


IN SEPTEMBER.
Roselit gold, maple’s dower,
	Glorifies the smoky view
Like a mammoth autumn flower
	Halo’d in the distant blue,
On a sunny April shower
	With a rainbow gleaming through.

Goldenrod encampments kindle;
	Flame of fleecy amber spreads
Into heaps that drift and dwindle,
	Dropping floss, like curling shreds 
Blowing from a slender spindle
	Wound about with yellow threads. 
 
In the mellow wind and weather 
	(Golden silk and satin husk,)
Knights with spur and spear and feather,
	Waving scents of milk and musk,
Shake their plumed heads together
	In a misty golden dusk.

Orange waves and cloud wrought dimples
	All the western heaven’s fret,
Blooms the sun, in vapor wimples
	And in foamy billows set,
As when in a river’s rimples
	Floats a golden violet.
						HATTIE WHITNEY.
								SELECTED.


A LOVE SONG TO A WIFE.
	We have been lovers for forty years;
O, dear cheeks, faded and worn with tears,
What an eloquent story of love ye tell!
Your roses are dead, yet I love ye well!

O, pale brow, shrined in soft, silvery hair;
Crowned with life’s sorrow and lined with care,
Let me read by the light of the stars above
Those dear, dear, records of faithful love.

Ah, fond, fond eyes of my own true wife!
Ye have shone so clear through my checkered
	life!
Ye have shed such joy on its thorny way
That I cannot think ye are dim to-day.

Worn little hands that have toiled so long,
Patient and loving, and brave and strong;
Ye will never tire, ye will never rest,
Until you are crossed on my darling’s breast,

O, warm heart, throbbing so close to mine!
Time only strengthens such love as thine,
And proves that the holiest love doth last
When summer and beauty and youth are past.
							Quiver.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN MAY NOT VOTE.
	THE Supreme court room was well filled
again Saturday Aug. 31st, as the anticipa-
tion that the qualification of women to vote
in November next would be passed upon
had deepened almost to a feeling of cer-
tainty. At 2:20 the Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices Bartch and King entered
the room.

	In the case of Sarah E. Anderson vs
Charles Tyree, involving the question of
women voting, Chief Justice Merritt said
that Judge Bartch and himself had arrived
at a conclusion, Judge King dissenting on
the subject. Mrs. Anderson had asked
that her name be placed on the registration
list. Judge Merritt said the Edmunds-
Tucker law had not been repealed, and
would remain effective till statehood was
achieved. Section 2 of the enabling act
had extended the franchise among males,
but had not referred to females. To allow
females to vote would be in conflict with
the act, and was forbidden. There had
been stress laid on the fourth section of the
enabling act, where the “qualified voters
of the proposed State” were authorized to
vote. In his view these qualified voters
were those qualified under existing laws
and the enabling act. There had been no
intention on the part of the Constitutional
Convention to allow women to vote at the
first election, in November next, but to al-
low them to vote thereafter. This was
clearly shown in section II of the schedule
of the Constitution. Judge Merritt said
he would file a written opinion, reversing
the judgment of the lower court.
	Judge King said he was unable to con-
sent to any of the views of the occasion.
He regarded them as utterly repugnant to
the provisions of the enabling act and of
the Constitution. He regarded that the
Edmunds-Tucker act was not a prohibition
of women voting on the Constitution; he
considered the view of the majority of the
court as absolutely wrong. He did not be-
lieve the purpose of the Edmunds-Tucker
act was to have any effect upon voters for
State officers or on the Constitution. If he
had been, it was superceded by the enabling
act. That act had permitted a disfranchised
class to vote for delegates to the Conven-
tion and on the Constitution, being an en-
largement of the franchise. At the elec-
tion for delegates, only males could vote,
but unquestionably Congress delegated to
the Constitutional Convention the power of
prescribing the electorate at the first elec-
tion for State officers and on the Constitu-
tion. That was a power which the people
of the State alone had the right to exercise.
The proposed voters of the State, Judge
King thought, were those who were en-
franchised by the Constitution, including
males and females. It was the province of
the Constitution-makers to define the elec-
torate, and they had done so, classifying
men and women as citizens. He regarded
as an absurdity the ruling that women
were disfranchised, which ruling outraged
every principle of construction, and was

[Column 2]
wrong. He regarded the provision in sec-
tion II of the schedule in the Constitution
as repugnant to article 4, if it was to be
taken as a restriction. However, he would
not take it as such restriction, but merely
to define that such persons should vote.
To say that the women should be dis-
franchised at this election he regarded as
a wrong and an outrage.
	Judge Bartch said he concurred in the
opinion of the chief justice, and as to the
Edmunds-Tucker act, if it was repealed
for the purpose of the enabling act, it was
repealed for all purposes. He did not be-
lieve the Edmunds-Tucker act was repealed
at all. In this special case, the franchise
was extended, but all the acts remained in
force, and if the Constitution failed, then
the Edmunds-Tucker act remained in
force.—Ex.


EMERY CO. W. S. A

Minutes of the Emery County Conven
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association
held at Orangeville, Sept. 2nd, in the
Social Hall, it being beautifully decorated
under the supervision of Mrs. Rhoda E.
Robertson, President of the Local Organiza-
tion. The two most important features
being a motto composed of yellow flowers
(the suffrage color) bearing the words
“Equal Rights,” and the flag festooned
with bouquets of yellow flowersand the two
lone stars representing the two states that
have given full suffrage to women and in
one corner could be seen the point of
another arising in the horizon of the near
future.
	I must not forget to mention the gentle-
men did honor to the suffrage color the
same as the ladies, by a button-hole bouquet
of the yellow flowers, taking it altogether
the hall and the people resembled an im-
mense flower garden.  President Jane
Petersen in the chair, a short program was
well rendered by the following named per-
sons—Mrs. Mary A. Sorenson; a lecture on
“The Literal Sense” of Woman’s Suffrage
given in that lady’s easy style and wae
warmly applauded by her hearers. The
Hon. William Howard, a member of the
Constitutional Convention, gave a lecture 
on equality of sex, a splendid address.
He thoughtif woman had justice she would
not have to contend for her franchise. He
never could see why the right to vote was
given to some and withheld from others.
He said women were full of mercy and
when mercy was mixed up with justice we
would have a better form of government.
	Miss Millie Larsen gave a recitation
“Shall Women Vote.” The Hon. C. G.
Larsen gave a short address. He felt that
the ladies should vote, but if they proved
themselves as selfish as some men, he hoped
they never would get the vote. Follow-
ing was a recitation by Miss Sabina
Oliplianton “Girls Rights,” which brought
down the house.  President Jane Petersen
then introduced Judge Rhodes of Ephraim,
who gave an able address.
He thought that Woman Suffrage was no


longer a subject of discussion. He never
was exactly able to say why men opposed
Woman’s Suffrage. When it came to the
subject of Political Economy women had
the advantage of men. They were more
observant. He was sure the women of
Colorado had done their state a great ser-
vice, in the study of law. The divorce
cases that had come up before them in
ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the
men were to blame. In women casting
their ballot they should do as they feel and
not vote as their husband’s do, unless they
were convinced it was for the best. He
thought women had intellect, he knew they
had tongues. He thought it was necessary
that one or two ladies be on the school
board. The greatest opponents were the
saloon keepers they did not want women
to vote, they were afraid of her. If we
must have saloons let them be good ones.
The women should look after these saloons
that sold whiskey from the back door on
Sundays. He wished woman success in
her efforts, but he thought the time for
contending for woman’s rights, in Utah,
was past. [He afterwards ascertained
that women could not vote at the coming
election which effected the Judge very
much.] He then urged the women to
exert their energies to the greatest, that
their husbands sons and brothers should
vote for the Constitution. He could now 
see plainly the opposers of Woman Suffrage
would do all they could to defeat the con-
stitution. He had thought there was
nothing more for women to do, now he
could see a great work before them.
Benediction by Andrew Anderson. The
Convention then adjourned for three months.
Josie E. Childs, Cor. Sec.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.

	A LETTER from Mrs, May Wright Sew-
all, Vice-President-at-Large, of the Inter-
national Council of Women, and one of the
Cabinet of the National Council of Women
of the United States, dated Sept. 8, at
Prescott, Arizona, informs us she has been
spending the summer there with her hus-
band, who went south for his health some
time previous; though resting from her
arduous home labors, she has by no means
been idle but sowing good seed in that
locality, and has given some lectures there
and succeeded in organizing the Woman’s
Club of Prescott with thirty charter mem-
bers.
	The local papers have this to say of her
work there.
	“Mrs. May Wright Sewall’s lecture on Saturday
afternoon was quite well attended by ladies from
both Prescott and Whipple. Her subject was the
“Origin and Formation of Women’s Clubs” and
her lecture was very interesting. Mrs. Sewall is
very graceful on the lecture platform and language
proceeds from her as water from a spring, and
she held her audience spell-bound throughout
the lecture. In the matter of clubs, it may be in-
teresting to mention the fact that Mrs. Sewall
has the honor of being one of three ladies, re-
siding out of New York, who is a member of
New York’s celebrated Sorosis club. On Tues-
day afternoon at 3 o’clock she will give another
talk to ladies at K. of P. hall and will assist in the
organization of a club here.
	She has also consented to give a lecture in the
near future on the subject of “Female Suffrage,’’
a subject not entirely new, but which will no
doubt be handled in such a way by her as to
make it interesting to all who will attend.
	Mrs. Sewall is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, having
held that position from March, 1891, to March,
1895, and is at present secretary of foreign re-


lations in the National Council, and Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large of the Internationl Council, of
which Her Excellency, the Countess of Aberdeen,
is President.
	Mrs. Sewall gave her Margaret Fuller
lecture to the ladies in Prescott which
must have been impressive, considering the
subject, and the remarkable presence of the
lecturer, her ease of manner and the at-
tractive power which she has with her
audience.
	Mrs. Sewall expects to speak at the Na-
tional Council Convention in Atlanta in
October on the “Functions of the Cabinet,”
she has also accepted an invitation to speak
at the Educational Congress in Atlanta in
November, her subject is “The Duty of
the School to the Public Morals and Man-
ners.” Mrs. Sewall is quite well known to
a number of Utah women though her con-
nection with suffrage work and as the
presiding officer of the National Council,
and whatever Mrs. Sewall undertakes she
does in an effective and masterful way.
She presides with great dignity, never los-
ing her presence of mind for a single
moment.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

CASSIA STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
at Oakley, Aug. 16, 1895. President
Louisa Haight, presiding, present were her
counselors, Helen E. Tuttle and Ann Wil-
son: also stake president H. D. Haight
and counselors Moroni Pickett and Frank-
lin F. Brim.
	Conference opened by the choir singing,
“Come Oh Thou King of Kings.” Pray-
er by Bishop William T. Harper. Choir
sang “Israel, Israel God is calling.”
Opening remarks by president Louisa
Haight. Minutes were read. Six branches
of the Relief Society were reported by their
presidents; and three not reported; those
sisters who reported made good remarks.
	Counselor Helen E. Tuttle expressed her
good wishes and made encouraging remarks.
	Counselor Ann Wilson made a few re-
marks
	Sister Marintha A. Stoddard said, “We
must practice what we preach, we should
be energetic and have faith. When we at-
tend our meetings and partake of spiritual
food we are more capable to teach our lit-
tle ones.”
	Sister Rosabell A. Brim spoke of the
many duties devolving upon us, and the
labor we had to perform; said if we would
all do our part the labor would be light.
	President H. D. Haight addressed the
conference was pleased to hear the remarks
of the sisters. This is a life of trial and
disappointment. If we have knowledge
superior to others, we ought to be willing
to impart it unto them, and bring them up
to our standard. Let us be affable and
kind and set a good example before all.
This is the Lord’s work and He acknowleges
the different organizations.
	Choir sang, “O’er the Gloomy Hills of
Darkness.” Benediction by Bishop Thom-
as Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
by the choir singing, “Lift up Your Heads
ye Scattered Saints.” Prayer by Brother
Franklin F. Brim. Choir sang, “Softly
Beams the Sacred Dawning.” Statistical
and Financial reports were read. Brother
Moroni Pickett said: “I think it is as es-

[Column 2]
sential for women to acquire wisdom and
knowledge as men; for this work is not a
small work it is magnificent. We should
meet together frequently and the more
meetings we attend the more we want to.
We have congregated here today to hear the
reports of the several branches of the Relief
Society and testimonies and be instructed
by those who may address us. Minutes of
first organization of the Relief Society
were read.
	President Louisa Haight spoke to the
sisters about storing up grain, and gave
good instructions.
	Bishop John L. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of attending Relief Society Con-
ference, said, “There are Latter-day Saints
who are advancing, but are the masses? I
think the majority of the people are neglect-
ful; let us throw off that negligence and
let our light shine. Everything is all right
in Zion.
	Congregation sang,“The Spirit of God,”
etc. Benediction by President H. D.
Haight.
LOUISA HAIGHT, President.
L. ROBBINS, Ass’t Sec.

SAN JUAN.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the San Juan Stake of Zion, held at
Monticello, Aug. 26th, 1895. President
Martha Hammond presiding, present on the
stand, Apostle Brigham Young, Elder
George Reynolds, President F. A. Ham-
mond and counselors. Meeting opened by
the choir singing. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Jens Nielsen, continued with sing-
ing. The minutes of previous Conference
were read and approved. Followed by re-
marks from Stake President of the Relief
Society Martha Hammond; she reported her
labors in visiting around the stake, where
she found the society in all its branches im-
proving which was a source of satisfaction
to her.
	Mancos Society was reported by Secre-
tary Louie White.
	Burnham, by Secretary Abigail Young.
	Monticello, by Counselor Mary A Per-
kins.
	Bluff, by President Kisten Nielsen and
Moab by Sister Mary Taylor all are doing
fairly well.
	Counselor Mary N Jones, M. M. Halls
and Sister Taylor all bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work of God.
	Elder George Reynolds said it was the
first time, he believed, he had had the
privilege of speaking in a Relief Society
Conference and the second time he ever at-
tended one, but did not wish the sisters
to think he was not in sympathy with their
work, added other remarks that were in-
structive to the listeners. President F. A.
Hammond occupied a few minutes in en-
couraging the sisters in their great work, as
did Apostle Brigham Young, he compared
the condition of the Latter-day Saints to-
day, with their condition forty years ago.
	Spoke a short time on the subject, which
was very interesting.
	The general and stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were unanimously sustained.
Conference was adjourned for three months,
Dismissed by the congregation singing the
Doxology. The Benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor William Hall.
MARTHA HAMMOND, Prest.
EVELYN ADAMS, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	5


NOT ON THE LINTEL.
To night my neighbor is weeping,
For the Destroyer in passing o'er
Found there no mark of sacrifice
On the lintel of the door;
So passing thro' the unguarded door
He found a blossom fair
Touched it with his chilling breath—
Shrouding life with the gloom of death
Leaving desolation there.
To-night I might weep with my neighbor
For I have no guarded flower,
Death could easily come and take one
For there's naught to stay his power;
I have not made the needed sacrifice,
The Destroyer in passing o'er
Would find that I, from Him that gave
Have not the merit, the mark to save,
On the lintel of my door.		E.T.


REFLECTIONS AND MEMORIES.
[A Tribute of Love.]
TO MRS. MARY A. FREEZE.
How strange a thing is life!
	How the years come and go,
Bearing us onward forever,
	Now swift and now slow;
Bringing changes—oft sorrow
	On some bright "To Morrow."
Yet the stream bears us swiftly 
	Along the strange way,
Each morn changed to even,
	Each night follows day;
'Till at last we find peace
Where all quarrels cease.

O, Watchman what of the Night?
	Do you keep the bell tolling,
To tell of fierce breakers
	Where wild waves are rolling?
Yet hark! From far o'er the sea
Sweet music is wafting ever to me.

And so the tide flows gently on,
	Now tears, now laughter on the way;
The fair young face soon changed and worn,
	With sorrow set e'er early day;
Sweet faded faces oft we meet,
And silently each other greet.

The journey long must needs have end,
	The mile-stones close and closer grow;
Yet each brings back some memory dear
	Of those we loved so long ago:
Tho' from our lives they've passed away
To dwell in realms of endless day.

O, dream awhile, sweet friend of mine!
	Bid memory all her treasures bring!
May those so loved of old by thee
	Press near, and loud thy praises sing;
For Zion's daughters love thee well,
And high and loud the echoes swell.

When Zion shall with joy be crowned
	With the shining ones may you be found;
May each fond wish you have in life.
	Your full heart know—while joys abound,
The Master smiling on thy face,
A faded look will never trace.

All things are theirs who win the crown,
	All heights all depths, to them are known;
The Savior's love will dry all tears,
	Of those He's chosen for His own;
Dear one, His love is strong and deep,
Whom thus He loves, no more need weep.

Now flowers we bring of fragrance rare,
	And crown thee Queen this happy night;
Glad music swells the perfumed air,
	Thy friends all greet thee with delight,
May white winged Peace, her pinions spread
	And choicest blessings crown thy head.
June, 1895.	LYDIA A. ALDER.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Aug. 10th, 1895. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding. Meeting open-
ed by singing, "O, Say What is Truth.”
Prayer, Counselor E Webb. Continued
by singing, ”O, ye Mountains High.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Counselor Stevenson said this is
the season of the year when most meetings
adjourn. But we can’t afford to lose one
moment of this valuable time. What a
privilege to have remained in the courts on
high, to come forth in this day, when the
Gospel of the Son of God has been restored
in this momentous age; we should never
cease to thank God for these blessings.
Sometimes while passing through trials we
can’t see the light. But if we don’t pass
through tribulations, we couldn't fully ap-
preciate blessings, we are surrounded by
temptations, let us make the best of our
opportunity, be as towers of strength round
our children; live near to the Lord, teach
by example; we should strive to overcome
our weaknesses. One today, another to-
morrow. I wish young mothers would
meet with us. I come to be fed and to gain
strength every time I come to these meet-
ings. We learn many good things from
books, but we learn more by listening to
the experiences of others, those who have
passed through trials, and borne them
patiently; those that can acknowledge the
hand of God in all things we receive
strength by speaking one to another. All
who testify will receive a blessing. Al-
though an invalid for many years I have
been spared to accomplish a good work.
I will never cease to thank my Heavenly
Father for the blessings bestowed upon me.
May God bless us to be as haven among the
Saints. Sisters don’t let the precious time
go to waste, may the Lord bless us.
	A sister whose name was unknown, said,
“I am pleased to be here today, God has
been very good to me, the testimony of the
truth of the Gospel has been the greatest
blessing I have received. Relief Society
sisters are engaged in a grand and glorious
work.” Recited a beautiful poem on Relief
Society work.
	Another sister testified, “I know this is
the work of God, the more we strive to do
the will of the Father the more strength
we will have to overcome temptation, my
greatest desire is to endure and prove faith-
ful. I ask an interest in the prayers of my
sisters.
	Counselor Webb had enjoyed the remarks
of the previous speakers, ‘‘if we had faith
sufficient, we would not feel it a task to
perform our duties. Relief Society work
is a glorious work, in it we become well ac-
quainted with each other, we must be
charitable to each other. I often read the
Sermon on the Mount. There are so many
beautiful things to be learned from that
sermon; we are living in very peculiar
times, there are things to contend with,
never met with before. The enemies of
the Saints are gradually leading our
children away. We should be willing to
make any sacrifice for our children. Let
us be united in laboring for their welfare.
Live so that by kindness and the influence
of the spirit of charity and love, we can
draw them to us. I desire to hear my
sisters speak, let each one say a few words.
	A Sister said, I have a testimony, I want
to receive the blessing pronounced by
hearing and testifying of the goodness of

[Column 2]
God to me. Have received many blessings,
I desire to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things.
	Another said, “I have a testimony to
bear, the Lord blesses me continually, I
know its a good thing to meet together
often. We gain strength by speaking one
to another. I consider these the best meet-
ings I attend, I can’t be thankful enough
for the blessing of the Gospel and want to
do all the good I can, I came here to serve
the Lord. Congregation sang, ‘‘We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Nunn said,‘‘I feel I should neglect
performing my duty, if I keep my seat,
the spirit of the Lord is here. I desire to
speak of the goodness of God, every time I
have an opportunity,” asked the sisters to
pray for an afflicted sister who was in
England, who was very desirous to gather
with the Saints, but being very ill was un-
able to come.
	Sister Julia C. Howe hoped to be im-
pressed with the spirit of the Lord, ‘‘It re-
quires effort to come here this warm weather,
those who come certainly have a testimony;
there is a spirit of peace in the Gospel that
cannot be understood by those not of us,
we enjoy this new birth. We have no de-
sire to honor our enemies, the Gospel
teaches us to do good to all, my family
sometimes say to me, 'Ma you are too re-
ligious,’ we should take our children to fast
meeting, let them pay their tithes and of-
ferings, show them the right way. It will
make an impression that will remain with
them, there are practical duties, I was early
taught charity and truthfulness, these are
principles our children should understand
and cultivate.” ‘‘Redeemer of Israel,”
was sung by the congregation.
	“Sister Alder, “May the spirit of the
Lord improve me. It is those who are
weak that need to be fed. All that is
necessary is to do the will of the Father
and receive the blessings promised, those
who are obedient are the ones worthy of
the blessing, we can’t expect blessings
without sacrifice; good and evil are placed
before us, will we accept the offer of the
world, or be faithful and receive the bless-
ings of the world, or be faithful and re-
cord the blessing of the Father? When we
left our home in the other world, we no
doubt promised the Father we would re-
turn. As long as we are obedient, He can
draw us back to him, we can feel the in-
fluence of those, who live for this world,
the other life may come at any moment,
we can’t wait till we are old to serve the
Lord; if mothers will reason with their
children, we can always lead them. We
must walk in the straight and narrow way,
if we hope to find the home of Father and
Mother in the celestial world; we won’t
be satisfied if we don’t get back; the Father
will not compel us. But will hold out his
hand and lead us back, so should we lead
our children, that all may find the straight
and narrow way, is my prayer.”
	Sister Steel testified she had known for
forty years that this Gospel was true “My
desire is to be faithful, have passed through
trials, but never one that did not bring a
blessing.”
	Several sisters bore testimonies, all were
desirous of doing good and remaining faith-
ful spoke of the good influence present.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks. Thought all had been well repaid
for coming to meeting. Concluded by
singing and benediction.
	VILATE R. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
	cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter 

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER I, AND 15, 1895.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
October 3rd, 1895, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is earn-
estly desired that there should be a repre-
sentation from the Relief Society of every
Stake of Zion and from each society within
the several Stakes. All are cordially in-
vited to attend the conference, and especial-
ly the members of this important organiza-
tion.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


[Column 1]

WORK AND WAIT.

	COULD any one have imagined, a few
years ago, just what is taking place at the
present time here in Utah,especially among
the women of the Territory. History is
being made rapidly, history in which wo-
men form a prominent part. And why
not? Are they not as much concerned in
the welfare of the new state that is to be,as
men are. It concerns their homes, their
“life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.”
And not only theirs but that of their pos-
terity dearer far than one’s own life to the
mother-heart. It behooves woman at this
time to exert all her faculties, to bring out
her best thought, her ripest judgment, her
most earnest endeavor in that which will
make the new commonwealth of Utah the
most perfect government possible.
	Some things to be sure have not come up to
the expectation of women in reference to
immediate equality of suffrage, and yet one
cannot help believing even that is wisely
provided against, for new experiments are
sometimes, in fact often disastrous in gov-
ernments as well as in other things, and
after all it was not anticipated by the most
sanguine that women would vote with men,
but that if voting at all would vote separ-
ately. But surely there can be no com-
plaint as the matter stands now, women are
debarred from voting this coming election,
but it does not hinder them from working
or talking when or where it is possible to
have a voice. They may exert their ut-
most influence for the interest of the state
and especially for the ratification and adop-
tion of the Constitution which has been
framed and has gone out to the people, and
upon which the legal voters will render their

[Column 2]
decision at the November election. It is 
of no use to deplore the situation of the
question of equal suffrage, but go to and 
do all that is possible to secure statehood
and urge every man to vote for it,by reason,
by persuasion, or entreaty. The suffrage
women of Utah expect every man to do his
duty at the polls in November by voting
for statehood, and it is devoutly to be
hoped that such vigilance will be exercised
by women, as well as men, that not a vote
will be lost.
	The eyes of the world are upon Utah in
the present state of affairs, and the greatest
and noblest women are watching and
anxious to know how the tide will turn.
	If Utah comes into the union with equal 
suffrage upon her banner, what rejoicing
there will be among the women who are
laboring early and late unceasingly for the
promotion of the cause, and the freedom
of every woman from political bondage.
	One more free state, one more bright
star in the flag of the Union, and one that
means so much for human rights, the
truest type of that great boon, without
which happiness cannot be complete,
liberty, yea liberty, without the distinction
of sex, race or color.
	Woman herself must not cease her ef-
forts in her own behalf, or in behalf of her
own sex; because it must be apparent to
all, that although women may be intel-
lectually bright, vigorous and active, yet
they lack the training and discipline men
get from association, political and other-
wise, which brings them in contact with
each other, and the public at large. Wo-
men have occupied a much narrower sphere
heretofore, and necessarily their views and
opinions on questions of state, with its re-
lative departments, political economics and j
matters of serious importance will require 
time to mature. And the real method of
arriving at excellence in any of these, will
be by practice. Until women are admitted
to participation in affairs of city,county and
state, they never will utilize the knowledge
of political science they may get by careful
study and investigation. By attending
primary meetings, conventions and such
like public gatherings, they will come by
degrees to comprehend the responsibility
and advantages of the ballot and to ap-
preciate the opportunities it gives where
judiciously exercised to make better con-
ditions for humanity, and especially to
make better protection for dependent wo-
men and children not only individually
but in all public places, and institutions,
whether educational, industrial or reforma-
tory.
	Not that we think the millenium
will have come,when women have equal suf-
rage, but it will be the dawning of a bright-
er period for the whole world of mankind;
already the leaven has begun to work in
Utah and women feel the stirring of new
deas, a desire to look deeper into the science
of government, and to examine the history
of other countries and compare notes.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP has returned from
an extensive lecturing tour in Northern
Utah and Idaho. Having devoted the
past three months in the interest of wo-
man’s advancement communicating thought
which lies at the very foundation of woman’s
education, the perservation of health, the
prevention of disease and the perfecting


of the physical body. The subject matter
of a course of lectures given to large and
appreciative audiences. The doctor has
traveled over three thousand miles and in
the meantime lectured over five hundred
hours. She expects to remain at home
during the winter season but not to hibernate
nor even follow the allurements of the
social whirl but to continue the good work
in following her professional duties, and
teaching a class in the science and art of
obstetrics.


HYGIENIC COOKERY.
	In the art of preparing food in a whole-
some, nutritious manner, a thorough practical
knowledge of this very useful art ought to
form a part of the education of every young
woman, whatever her station in life. No
position in life is more responsible than
that of the person who arranges the bills of
fare and selects the food for the household,
and what higher mission can one conceive
than to intelligently prepare the wherewithal
to make shoulders strong to bear life’s bur-
dens, and heads clear to solve its intricate
problems. What worthier work than to
help the building up of the bodies into pure
temples fit for guests of noble thoughts
and high purposes. Bread has been
proverbially styled “the staff of life.” In
nearly all ancient languages the word bread
signifies all, indicating that the bread of
earlier periods was in truth what it should
be, at the present time, a staff upon which
all the functions of life might with safety
depend. Notwithstanding the important
part bread is designed to play in the economy
of life, it would be hardly possible to men-
tion another article of food which falls so far
below the standard, either through the
manner of its preparation or the material
used. Were the tables of our land supplied
with good nutritious bread there would be
less desire for cake and other indigestible
articles, which under the present system of
cooking are allowed to compensate for the
inferior quality and preparation of more
wholesome food.
	What is termed white flour has a large
part of the nutritive properties of the grain
left out and unless the deficiency is made
up by other food, the use of bread made
from such material will leave the most vital
tissues of the body poorly n[-]urished and tends
to produce innumerable bad results. People
who eat bread made from fine white flour,
naturally crave the food elements which
have been eliminated from the wheat and
are thus led to an excessive consumption of
meat and other stimulating articles of diet.
The superiority of bread made from entire
wheat or unbolted meal has been attested
by many notable examples in history. In
England under the administration of Wm.
Pitt, there was for several years a scarcity
of wheat, so that to make it last longer, a law
was passed by Parliament that the army
should be supplied with bread made from
unbolted flour. It caused much dissatis-
faction among the men, but nevertheless
the health of the army improved so greatly
as to be a subject of surprise. The officers
and physicians publicly declared the soldiers
had never been so robust and healthy. Ac-
cording to analysis, whole wheat bread con-
tains 60 per cent more of the phosphates or
bone-making material than does meat, and
200 per cent more gluten than white bread.
To white flour may be attributed the early
decay of teeth. If children are to have


[Column 1]
good teeth, bone and muscles they must be
fed on food which contains an adequate sup-
ply of nourishment for their structure. To-
day our children are fed largely upon bread,
cakes, piecrust and puddings, made from
the finest white superfine flour, which can
be ground or rolled. A careful analysis of
the wheat shows that immediately beneath
the hull lies the dark portion of the kernel,
which is hard, firm and very difficult to
grind or roll into fine flour and more or less
of it is quite sure to remain in contact with
the bean, and in bolting the rest of it is
mostly separated from the fine flour. The
dark portion thus disposed of contains in
excess the very substances required, to
nourish the teeth, bones, muscles and brain.
Namely, the gluten and phosphates, the
central or white portion of the grain con-
tains an excess of starch, which is easily
pulverized, and by bolting gives the super-
fine white flour. A large proportion of
this white flour is starch, while it is useful
in supplying wheat and fat making ma-
terial when taken in its natural condition as
it exists in the grain it will not supply ani-
mal life for any great length of time, con-
sequently white flour will keep in barrels
for a long time without being disturbed by
insects, where as the unbolted meal will
not keep for any great length of time with-
out becoming unpleasant to the taste.
	It has been demonstrated by experiment,
that animals fed exclusively upon the finest
superfine flour died in a few weeks while
those fed upon unbolted flour thrived. Im-
perfect development of the bones, muscles,
teeth, brain and nerves is the inevitable re-
sult which follow, if children are fed largely
on white flour, cooked in any form, and
deformity, dyspepsia and debility in after
life. It is difficult to imagine the immense
harm to the present and rising generation,
which is being done by the use of white
flour. The Israelites made unleavened bread
of grains pounded on smooth stones, mixed
with pure water and thoroughly kneaded
and baked. Many of the inhabitants of the
earth today eat unleavened bread. The
Scotch and Irish make it from barley and
oats, the Swedes from rye, and the Mexi-
cans from corn. It is also used among the
Americans to a limited extent. It is made
of whole wheat flour and water, well beaten
and baked in hot iron gem pans; it is very
palatable and wholesome. We should in-
troduce bread made from whole wheat flour
into our homes. It must not be allowed to
ferment too much as the gases escape, and
render the loaf sodden, and there will also be
a great loss in nutritive value, as well, as
natural sweetness. It should also be baked
with great care, more time should be al-
lowed than with white bread. Mushes are
also very wholesome, they must be cooked
well, a double boiler is a necessity in their
preparation, from two to five hours should
be allowed them.
	Fruit should compose a large part of our
diet. Grapes, apples, peaches and a great
many of our excellent fruits are more nutri-
tious in their natural condition, they should
be thoroughly matured but not over ripe as
they are liable to ferment and decompose in
the digestive tract. It should be rejected if
slightly decayed as the juices of fruit circu-
late through its tissues in much the same
manner as the blood circulates through ani-
mal tissues, though not so rapidly and freel[--]
The circulation is sufficient however, to
convey to all the parts, the products of de-
composition when only a small portion has

[Column 2]
undergone decay. Fruit should be cooked
by stewing as hard boiling will destroy the
fine flavor, especially of berries. The uten-
sils for cooking should be porcelain lined
or granite ware, if cooked in tin it is liable
to lose much of its fine flavor, there is also
danger of the acids of the fruit acting upon
the metal and forming a poisonous com-
pound. Tin covers should be avoided as
the steam is liable to condense and ruu
down into the kettle and thus discolor the
contents. Much of our fruit can be bottled
fresh and also dried for winter use, sugar
should be used sparingly, perserves and
jellies should not be eaten as their nutritive
properties are gone.
	Condiments such as pepper, mustard, vin-
egar, etc., are very injurious, as they act
directly upon the nervous system not as
nourishment but as stimulants and irritants,
causing for the time being, undue activity
and exhilaration to be followed by corres-
ponding depression. They also cause an
unnatural condition of the functions of the
stomach and the reaction is partial paralysis.
Thus the thin membranes and tissues of the
digestive organs are worn out prematurely
and disease follows. A taste for these ar-
ticles is artificial and can be overcome by a
strong will power on the part of the indul-
ger. Vegetables are also wholesome but
should be cooked properly. They should
be perfectly tender but not overdone; they
should be put into boiling water, if they are
to be boiled and not allowed to boil too hard
or stop boiling before well done. They
like fruit should be well covered.
	Steaming or baking is preferable for most
vegetables, because their fine flavors are
more easily retained and their food value
suffers less diminution; particularly is
this true of our potato. Potatoes if baked,
should be pressed open immediately and
allow the steam to escape. This will pre-
vent their becoming soggy, the oven must
not be too slow as this causes the skin to
become hardened and much of the nutrition
wasted. Vegetables and fruit should not
be partaken of at the same meal by one
with a delicate stomach. Soups made of
vegetables are very nutritious and palatable
especially so of tomatoes. Cream is an ex-
cellent flavoring for soups, as well as for
our grains and fruits. Cream and good
rich milk are wholesome and very nutritious
and much easier of digestion than when
made into butter. Fried things are very
unwholesome and should be avoided by the
most healthful stomachs. We should eat
pure food that our digestive organs may be
in a healthy condition. They will then
give us physical health and our mental
depends upon our physical. We should be
very regular in our habits especially so in
eating. Our stomach should be allowed to
rest between meals and should not be dis-
turbed by ever so little, as digestion is thus
hindered. Food should be well masticated,
our teeth will perform this very important
office if time be given them.
	Stimulants such as tea, coffee, chocolate,
tobacco and strong drink are not good for
man as we learn from the revelation on the
Word of Wisdom, it also says in the same
revelation that flesh is only for the use of
man in excessive hunger.	J. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE Annual Convention of the Utah W.
S. A. will be held in this city, on Monday,
Oct. 7, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Hall.—E. B. WELLS,
President, NELLIE LITTLE, Secretary.


CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
   
CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
			[Continued.]
	Governor West:	Ladies and Gentlemen:
—I am sure it is a matter of congrat-
ulation to you to hear the remarks that
were made by Miss Anthony on the pro-
gress of the cause which you have so near
at heart. I sincerely believe in the near
future the Woman’s Suffrage Union will
prevail all over the United States. The
movement in the past has had a hard and
serious time and it has been up hill work all
the time and obstructions have been in the
way, they were difficult to overcome, but I
believe now all those difficulties have been
overcome and its road will be smooth and
easy. And it is smooth and easy because
of the noble, earnest, sincere, devoted and
self-sacrificing women like Miss Anthony
and her co-workers. Now I have the
pleasure of presenting to you one of the
most earnest and illustrious co-workers
with Miss Anthony in urging this noble
work, The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw. (Ap-
plause).
	REMARKS BY REV. ANNA SHAW.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I only feel very
humble after Miss Anthony has been speak-
ing, for it must seem so grand to say forty-
eight years ago we did so and so. (Laugh-
ter.) It makes one feel so grand, so mag-
nificent. Now I cannot say that I did very
much forty-eight years ago, nor fifty years
ago, but forty-seven years ago I began to
work for suffrage as soon as I began to
breathe, and with the beginning of my
breathing began my energy and my toil in
this direction, I have always rebelled ever
since, I could clinch my little fist as a
baby and when I toddled about as a child,
at the restrictions that were eternally put
about girls and women. And from the
time I can first remember I was called a
Tom-boy and if it was so delightful to be a
Tom-boy, what must it be to be a boy.
(Laughter.) And from the very beginning
it was always thought there was something
the matter with my head, and you cannot
make my father believe that there is not
something the matter with it now. My
father believed that girls ought to be born
with a burning desire to wash dishes; if
not, there was something the matter with
their heads. As I never had the burning
desire to wash dishes but always longed to
chop wood, my father never knew where to
put me, he knew his head was all right
and he didn’t learn to wash dishes he knew
mother’s head was all right but they have
never been able to get me right. I was al-
ways on the wrong side of the fence, I was
always found just where the women were
not expected to be, and when I became a
a young woman I determined to preach the
Gospel. My father said one day, “we all
knew that you would do something, and
you have done it,’’ and so I did it. (Laugh-
ter.)
	After you have struggled with poverty
and social ostracism and discouragement,
and disappointment in the hearts of your
friends and especially your own people, it
is very hard to have them come up and
say when you have succeeded, “If we had not
helped you it would have been a hard time
for you.” 	(Laughter).  It always makes


[Column 1]
one feel so delightful. So the days have
gone by until in recent years I met Miss
Anthony and since that hour I have been
one of Miss Anthony’s co-laborers. So in
the spring when she ordered me to come
West I came, and allow me to say in good
old Methodist language, for I am a Metho-
dist, I consider it an honor to be here. You
know we Methodists when we come out
and cannot say anything else, we say “it is
good to be here,” and I am glad to be here
with these men and women who breathe
this free air, (for it is very light air, it
makes one long to fly), long enough to
have the spirit of freedom in their hearts. I
cannot understand that kind of a man who
believes the Lord took any more especial
interest in him than he does in anybody
else on earth and when a man thinks he has
a divine right to be any more free than a
woman, I think there is something the
matter with his head. (Laughter and ap-
plause).
	In regard to self-government, God gives
woman as well as man freedom of action,
God does not compel woman any more
than he does man, to obey his laws and
do his will. He places before us a just
and right course of conduct in life, he
makes it possible for us. He knows in his
divine law that no human being can be
moral who is not believed to be moral and
that no human being can be immoral who
is not believed to be immoral and that there
is no virtue in morality unless we have his
love. He places before us the road to vir-
tue and the road to vice and if we choose the
road to virtue and well doing then we will
have strong moral character. Now just
why it should enter into the head of man
that woman should not be just as free on
the earth, I cannot understand, unless it is
that man has never been quite satisfied with
woman because the Lord didn’t consult
him when he created us. (Laughter.)
And so they have never been able to quite
adjust us to their taste because the Lord
made us when man was asleep and he never
thought to wake him up to ask his advice
about us. (Laughter.) They have been
trying to remedy the defects the Lord made.
They have set us a going here and they
have made us a great deal worse than the
Lord did in the beginning. Just look at
the kind of dresses we have been wearing
with shoulders humped up higher than our
heads. The Lord never made us that way,
it was a man dressmaker in Paris.
(Laughter.) Out here in the West some
of the men are conscious that the best thing
to do is to let us alone and we will be a
great deal better friends, sisters, wives and
daughters and above all a great deal better
women for I would rather be a woman than
to be any kind of a relation to anybody.
But the difficulty of this all is that we wo-
men have been legislated for as relation to
somebody. We have never been treated as
men, they don’t make laws for men, for
brothers and sons, fathers and husbands,
they make laws for men as men. Now
when they begin to consider woman as an
individual responsible in herself, responsi-
ble to her God, responsible to the State, re-
sponsible to society, responsible to her
home and responsible in her own right and
in her own being Just as soon as we treat
women as individuals just as we treat men,
it will be a great deal better for both
woman and man. You men are
beginning to realize it now. [
am hearing all the time when the women

[Column 2]
vote they will do this, or they will do that
or what will women do with the ballot? I
cannot tell you what all this body of wo-
men will do with the ballot, I could not
tell you what I would do with the ballot,
I would not swear to anybody that I would
use my ballot in any way but when the
time came I would use it, just as you use
yours just exactly, as I believe it would be
none of your business. (Laughter) no
more would it be my business how you
used your ballot. Now we cannot tell how
any individual woman will use her ballot.
We can tell for the aggregate woman exact-
ly as the aggregate man I cannot tell you
how your Governor will vote to-morrow
but I can tell you pretty generally what
the body of your men would vote to-mor-
row. If I knew the financial condition,
the material condition, and the industrial
condition of your Territory I would know
how the individual man would vote and the
aggregate man would vote for the financial,
industrial and material interests. I cannot
tell how any woman would vote, but I
could tell you how the aggregate woman
would vote, the aggregate woman would
vote for the best interests of home, family
and society, for the best interests of moral
character and highest moral development,
and I believe as long as the world stands it
will be the uniform result of the vote of
the bodies of women to look after the
highest interests of the home, while man
will vote in the interests of salt, wood, pig-
iron and other material interests of the
country, I believe women will look after
the higher moral interests of the com-
munity; not because women are so much
wiser than men, but it has been the plan of
society that the work of man should be to
look after the material interests of the family,
and woman after the moral, educational and
physical interests of the family. Now I
claim that the reason men have not succeed-
ed better in the government is because they
have not tried, I think they have done a
great deal in some directions—that is not
because they have not tried, it is because
they have tried and discovered by experience
that which God said in the beginning that
it was not good for man to undertake any-
thing alone (applause.) I don’t want to
be understood as drawing comparisons be-
tween men and women, all I say is that
men are not everybody and that women are
not nobody—men are somebody and women
are somebody too, and two somebody’s
are needed in the home to make a home
and it takes both men and women to make
a state. I don’t care how lovely a spin-
ster’s home may be—even Miss Anthony
delightful and charming as she is, Miss
Anthony’s old maid home is not as delight-
ful a home as Mr. and Mrs. Anthony’s or
Mr. and Mrs. somebody’s old home would
be, not nearly so, although she has a charm-
ing old home. And my home, Miss
Anthony’s niece, who is my secretary and
I, have a delightful home and we fill it full
of people but we allow no male on the
premises except a male grasshopper: but no
male man is allowed there. Now we have
not the highest kind of a home, we have a
jolly good time but it is not ideal. But as
the home is not ideal with only one woman
in it, and think of a home with a man in
it (laughter) a man was never able to make
a home, home is where the woman is, a man
and a woman can make a home but a man
cannot make any kind of a home. You
put him in a house, it is a house, I don’t

[Column 3]
care how beautiful it is, it is only a house
with a man in it. But you can’t put a wo-
man in a house if it has only two rooms
and a cat that is not a home, especially if
the cat is there. It seems so delightful.
But as a house with only a man in it is not
a home, and a house with a woman in it is
only half a home, you cannot get an ideal
home without man and woman, and you
cannot get an ideal state without men and
women.
	President Elliot, of Harvard University,
said “The family is the tap-root of the
State” and President Elliot is opposed to
Woman Suffrage. Like all other men who
are on the wrong side of the question he is
about as inconsistent as a weather vane, I
never saw one that wasn’t. There is not a
man on the other side of the question that
could argue fifteen minutes without deny-
ing every principle of the declaration of
rights in the end, don’t care who he, is he
denies every principle on which his own
right of freedom is based before he gets
through. In regard to President Elliot’s
remark that the ‘‘family is the tap-root of
the state” now you take the tap-root of
anything and cut one-half of the tap-root
from its connection with the thing which
draws its life from it whether it is a tree or
state with only one half of its life con-
nected, why that part of the tree or any-
thing which should derive its vital power
from that part of the tap-root which has
been severed, will decay, will die, and
what will be the result? The whole body
will finally decay because of the defeat in
one-half of the tap-root. There are some
trees it is said near the ruins of old Babylon
one-half of which are green and filled with
life while the other half are dead, and these
are an exact type of the kind of a state
that is severed from connection with the
half of the life of the people, one-half of
the life of the tap-root of the state. So
notwithstanding President Elliot’s beauti-
ful simile that “the family is the tap-root
of the state’’ he wants to cut off one-half of
the tap-root of the state. It can never be
done, it will never be done and you will
never have the highest and best life until
you come in contact with the whole life of
the state by bringing women in.
	I am so glad that the men of Utah have
had the good sense to see it in time. I am
so glad that a majority of the men in your
Constitutional Convention which means a
majority of the men of your state, had the
good sense to recognize the eternal prin-
ciple and law of God that women had rights
and man is only one-half and woman is the
other half. They can never impress upon
state or society anything else than the en-
tire law of nature demands that recognition.
But you men have made a failure of the
government. If we had had control of the
government we probably would have made
quite as many failures and more especially
in regard to silver, gold and the tariff per-
haps than you, but we are about as able to
settle it as you are, you can no more do it
alone than we can do it alone. Miss An-
thony and I knew we were coming out to a
silver country so we just crammed ourselves
with Coins’ Financial School and there is
nothing you can ask us about silver that we
cannot tell you. We know all about it; but
you men have just been doing for the gov-
ernment all along in the past just exactly
what the gold men are trying to do. Do
you remember in that first book of Coins’
Financial School you have a picture of what


[Column 1]
a single basis of money means where he
tries to give you a very good illustration of
what a gold basis means, a man trying to
see with one eye, trying to carve a turkey
with one hand and trying to walk with one
leg. That is the kind of a government
you have. You have been trying to run it
with one eye, one arm, one leg and you
have been making just as much of a failure
as you possibly can. You cannot do it
alone, you have got to have the other half,
you have got to have the other sex to make
a complete whole government and the
whole life in the government which has got
to be and you men haven’t got sense
enough to see that it has got to be. So in
this way we women are beginning to see
that some men have as much sense as some
women. (Laughter.)
	I don’t know as I want to say anything
more to you this morning, I expect to speak
this evening. I was very much amazed
when the Governor introduced me. I just
want to say to you I rejoice with you and
how I hope if there is any man or any wo-
man who does not believe in the justice of
Woman Suffrage, or if they are afraid that
women will do something or won’t do
something that they will put their heads to
soak for a little while and try to get sense
enough to believe human rights, in the hu-
man family, in the world, and the people of
the world. I should want to die if I did
not believe in humanity. I would have
some doubts of a man’s honesty if I could
not trust him. A gentleman, a minister
in Kansas City said to me the other day,
“Why if you women had the ballot it
would have a bad effect on politics, the bad
men would compel their wives to vote their
way or they would beat them.” I replied
“Well, all men are not as mean as you are.
(laughter) You may beat your wife, you
may pummel her.’’ Why he got mad in a
minute—he straightened himself up and
said “Do you think I would do that? I
didn’t mean me.” I replied, “Oh, did’nt
you! Who did you mean?” He said
“The other fellow.” [laughter] Every-
body thinks he can do the right thing, it is
the other fellow. Now remember, the oth-
er fellow is quite as likely to do the right
thing as you are, and the people who trust
humanity are the people who will always do
the right thing. Now I am not at all afraid
of what women will do with the ballot, I
am not afraid of what men will do with the
ballot, I even believe in men voting
[laughter] and I know some of them will
cast a mighty mean vote too, and I think if
he is a mean man with a vote he will be a
meaner man without it. One of the best
things to educate people out of their mean-
ness and one of the best things to make us
women fit comrades and friends to men, to
make us charming and amiable is to give us
something more substantial. We women
have been fed on poetry, we women have
been fed on sentiment, and the world has
been going wrong and the men have been
trying to comfort us by repeating what we
have so often heard, “Don’t you know the
power of the silent influence of women,”
and don’t you know what the prayers of a
mother can do?”.  And you have wondered
why it was that it was only the prayers of a
mother that affected the good of the people.
I do not believe that God would not hear a
father’s prayer just as well as he would a
mother’s and I believe that a good man is
quite as good as a good woman and his in-
fluence goes as far if it is silent, and it goes

[Column 2]
a good deal farther. Then we are the
“power behind the throne." That is
beautiful, it is poetic—we always like kings
and queens even if we are a Republic, but
you can’t make Queen Lillioukalana believe
that it is a great deal better to be the “pow-
er behind the throne” than upon it. We
know that it is a great deal better to get on
the throne than to stand behind it though
that gives you a little power. Then they
say, “The hand that rocks the cradle moves
the world.” We have heard that and one
would suppose the woman rocks the cradle
about 75 or 80 years of her life. Day and
night three score years and ten the little
fellow never gets out and she is eternally
rocking. Now if we could only keep these
little fellows in the cradle but the trouble is
the little fellows won’t stay there, and the
woman may sit and rock the cradle like a
hen trying to hatch out a last year’s brood.
Now that is the kind of poetic nonsense
that has befen dealt out to us. The world’s
work needs all the world’s people to work
in harmony to lift up men and women out
of degradation, to lift them out of sin to
righteousness. The condition of the world
requires the best efforts of the best men
and women combined and there will not be
too much bestness. The work of the
world demands the highest and best inter-
ests of men and women working side by
side together and instead of bringing dis-
cord it will bring contentment; and there
never will be contentment in the homes of
the world, there never will be peace in
society until all the world is free, until each
person is free to judge for himself and her-
self their position in the home, in the
world, and in the state. When that is done
there will be no occasion for contention.
When we cease this eternal contention that
a man shall do this and a woman shall do
that, when both are left free to do exactly
as they can do and what the world wants
them to do, then we can look forward to
greater peace and prosperity. So I am
looking forward with great hopes for the
incoming state though I will not be here
when the state comes in, but when the
news comes over the wire that Utah has
been admitted I will rejoice ith you.
The people will ask me when I go back if
I have been hired by any real estate agent
to boom the state and we can boom it too.
There ill not be as much thanksgiving
and gratitude in the hearts of any two
people under the sun as will be in the
hearts of Elizabeth Cady-Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony when we shall be able
to place upon our flag by the place of the
two stars that are there now a third star,
and over the star to be the name of this
magnificent State of Utah, [applause]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLVII.
	Maitland’s letter telling of Clair Hilliard’s
death in a foreign land, together with Sid-
ney’s departure for England, and the pecu-
liar feelings brought about by the existing
circumstances, had a depressing effect even
upon Mrs. Harrison’s even temperament;
she could not altogether enter into the do-
mestic duties, with the zest and cheerfulness
natural to her, not even in the presence of
the children. Unusual to her former habit
she would take long drives and solitary
walks, and fancied she could thus throw off
the melancholy which seemed to haunt her.
The conversation with her husband con-

[Column 2]
cerning family events at the old place so
dear to her recollection had brought clearly
before her the beautiful scenery of rural
England, with all its delicious settings of
castles, towers, parks and grounds and the
various environments that have such a
strong hold upon the true English character.
She saw these things in a sort of dreamy
haze, as she went about her daily occupa-
tions, and though she strove against it, she
could not quite erase it from her mind’s
eye. The time seemed long while waiting
for letters, and she prayed more fervently
than ever before, that all might be well,
that the children of her beloved cousin Anna
might come to her, and the posterity of her
uncle, might yet be a blessing upon
the earth. Her prayer was answered
by a dream, which gave her gr at comfort
as regarded Anna's children, even though
she realized she had yet to undergo her
greatest trial, and to stand as it were alone.
Strange that one individual should be
called to pass through the fiery furnace of
affliction unhelped as it were, except by the
unseen, while others reared under the same
roof seldom or never know what such or-
deals are. Yet it is these severe afflictions
that rend the human soul, that teach the
deepest lessons, that strengthen the highest
attributes, and lead upward to the divinest
attainments possible to humanity.
	Had Jane Conway known when leaving
her mother’s grave to visit her uncle at
Hilliard castle, all it would involve, she
would not have had the courage equal to
such efforts, but coming one by one these
trials only helped to develop the possibili-
ities of her character, and she rose from each
one, better prepared to undergo the next,
though it should be still darker and heavier.
Her life with Robert Harrison might have
been almost a dream of happiness, but for
others in whom she took such a deep inter-
est, as to throw dark shadows across the
sunshine, and then the war had taken him
from her, and she knew not what the result
might be, but she made the sacrifice nobly
as became the grand women of those old
days, and felt the cause, was worthy the
lives of the greatest and best men of the age.
Yet she would have grieved none the less,
had Robert been slain.
	Mrs. Harrison felt in her inmost soul
that a dark shadow was hovering near her,
sometimes she shivered with a sort of terror
when alone, and felt she must tell her hus-
band of these gloomy forebodings but she
did not like to be considered visionary as in
such a case it would appear, nor even admit
it to herself.
	This condition of mind no doubt caused
the dream which changed affairs very ma-
terially. Mrs. Harrison had been longing
with impatience for letters from Sidney,
and as yet none had been received. She
had one evening sat up very late talking
with her husband of the past and anticipa-
ting what the future was likely to be, and
had gone to bed about midnight weary,
and somewhat excited over the events of
the past and present.
	She dreamed she was alone in the old
castle; she called and no one answered; she
wandered through the rooms, they were
deserted and dismal; the great elms and oaks
were moaning and bending with the fierce
night wind; she could hear its shrieks and
the crackling of the limbs, as one after
another broke loose and swung to the
ground, and she peered out into the dark-
ness, just as one great tree fell with a loud


[Column 1]
crash, broken by the raging tempest, shak-
ing the old house to its very foundations;
and then the moon shone out of the dark
clouds, and its pale light revealed to her,
the midnight scene; within and without all
was destruction and confusion, but she
heard voices calling her, Anna’s children,
and she clasped them in her arms, and
reaching out there were her own and Clair’s
son—“all the children are here,” she said,
almost with a wail half aloud “and am I
indeed left alone, of all those who ever
trod these halls?” And she burst into such
sobs of weeping, as to rouse her husband
from his slumbers. In her excitement
which proved quite hysterical, she declared
they must go to England, and though she
had always insisted upon remaining in
America, she could not be dissuaded from
going; as day after day brought no news
from Sidney, it was finally decided upon:
the house was left in charge of trustworthy
people, and the Major with his wife and
children, including Clair’s boy Edward,
set sail for England. Jane Harrison had
never told her husband the dream, she
could not muster the courage, but she felt if
she could see Sidney Barrington, he would
help her to bear the burden, which seemed
too much to carry alone. She knew with
his sympathetic nature, and his sublime
trust in God, he would understand: his
prayers had been a source of uplifting
many times heretofore, and she had un-
bounded faith in his integrity to the new
Gospel, which she had embraced as her
sole guide and help through life, and which
was to be, her solace in death, and hope
beyond the grave. She felt nearer to the
Lord when with this minister of the Gos-
pel, and richer in spiritual strength; she had
not quite learned the lesson of trusting in
God for herself, and relying solely upon
Him.
	The voyage across the ocean was a pleas-
ant one, nothing occurred to mar its serenity,
and on arriving at the landing in England,
they immediately set out for the old home of
the Hilliards; the journey was very inter-
esting, as the Major knew the country
thoroughly, and was able to point out the
most noticable features in their travels, and
give vivid descriptions and incidents both
amusing and instructive to Jane and the
children. The journey was most delight-
ful, the whole country seemed to be clothed
in robes of autumnal splendor. It may be
truly said of Jane Harrison that she was
solemnly and tranquilly happy, the scenery,
the fact of being once more on her native
soil, that she was to revisit the grave of her
mother, see the dear old castle once more,
wonderful memories, and then to meet An-
na’s children, was indeed a heartfelt pleas-
ure in anticipation Sometimes a thought
would come of her husband’s first love, the
wife of her uncle, and the mother of her
dear departed cousin; and she could not
help conjecturing whether he too, had a
wish to visit her grave, but she would not
harbor a moment’s jealousy of one so true
and constant; yet she knew how he had
suffered for Clarice Courtney, and indeed
was better acquainted with the private
histories of the people, who had lived in
and around Hilliard castle, than even her
husband suspected. She had locked up in
her heart, many unwritten histories of the
past few years; what a pity she could not
have written them, but the best things,
the truest, the most precious, and the finest
gems, are those which are buried the deepest

[Column 2]
in the hearts recesses: one catches now and
then an occasional flash of their radiant
brilliancy, but it is only for the moment;
but when we shall know as we are known,
then we may hope to see and comprehend,
all that is highest, and most excellent, in
the human soul; and we shall find it where
we least expected such nobility existed.
	Hilliard castle was reached at last, the
children were exultant, and were allowed
to give unbounded expression to their de-
light, the mother felt deeply, but was self-
controlled, even Major Harrison cast aside
his old prejudices, and partook of the en-
thusiasm of the hour. After partaking re-
freshments and going over the house, and
making various inquiries, a messanger was
dispatched to Walton Hall to find out the
whereabouts of Maitland and Sidney,
Meantime the visitors went through the
grounds adjacent to the house. Many im-
provements had been made, yet much re-
mained unchanged, and Mrs. Harrison was
almost overcome with the remembrances
that pressed upon her, as she went from one
to another of the familiar places. Of the
old servants there were only three she had
ever seen, in Mrs. Burke’s place a young
woman was installed, who knew nothing of
the house or its belongings, she had mar-
ried and come from “up country” to
take charge with her husband who was
managing “the farming land and the
meadows.” The old warden who lived in
the park was the only one to give informa-
tion, he was an ardent admirer of the young
master, and told them how kind he had
been to the people on the place and of other
matters of great interest to Mrs. Harrison;
he remembered her distinctly as Jane Con-
way, and never tired of telling of her “boss-
ing the old Maister,” but he grew
garrulous when he spoke of “good Doctor
Bland” and Jane hurried away lest the
Major should feel embarrassed with such
extravagant laudations of her first husband,
though he could scarcely consider him a
rival in her affections. The old man told
them that a youngish man like a foreigner
had been there several times recently with
men from London, going over everything
inside and outside, "I know naught about it,
not even their names, they questioned me a
great deal, but I know little of the things
they asked about, “as I al’ays minds my
own bizness.” However they had not
long to wait—Maitland came in response to
the message, on horseback, and after greet-
ings were over, told them Sidney was in
London with the lawyers; and would be
back in a day or two; that arrangements
were made leaving Anna’s children equal
with Edward, except the title, and the old
castle; and that the final settlements would
soon be completed. Walton was in un-
usually high spirits, anxious the Major and
his family should dine at Walton Hall at
the earliest date possible for them, to which
they readily consented, the children were
doing finely and evidently expected great
things.
	All the sad presentiments which had
haunted Mrs. Harrison before leaving
America had vanished, and she gave her-
self up to the full enjoyment of the sojourn
at the old homestead. She knew it could
only be a short visit, as her husband must
return to his business which was very im-
portant, and she felt it was the children’s
privilege, to enjoy to the utmost the op-
portunity of seeing and appreciating—
and realizing as far as possible, what an an-

[Column 3]
cestral home really was; feeling it would
impress all their after life.
	A message sent to London immediately
on learning Sidney’s address was answered
by himself in person, arriving as quickly as
the journey could be made; he had much
to tell, but most of it satisfactory to all con-
cerned. Clair had not forgotten his cousin
Jane and had left her a legacy of money
and valuables, with the guardianship of his
boy’s training and education; confided to
her care the direct heir to her uncle’s estate
and title. This expression of his respect
and love she prized beyond all else, and so
the daughter of the cast off sister of the
stern old Baronet, come in a way to be the
arbiter of the destiny of the Hilliard race.
“Things do take a turn,” on the wheels of
time, be it ever so slowly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1895.	No 9.


CONTENTS:
	An Open Letter From Dr. Elvira Stevens Bar-
ney. Congresses of Women. A Brief Historical
Sketch—Emmeline B. Wells. Conference N. A.
W. S. A. Extracts—Kate Tannat Woods. Na-
tional American W. S. A. Notes And News.
Cure For Poison Ivy. The Woman’s Con-
gress. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Statehood First. Editorial Notes
	POETRY:—October—E. B. W. Autumn.


OCTOBER.

THE woods and the fields and the golden grain
Of the mellow and brown October,
And the purple hills, and the furrowed plain,
Bring the days so sad and so sober;
Yet the sigh and moan of the falling leaf,
To the pensive heart is a sweet relief.

The sunset is grand in its flaming red,
Lighting the hills with a wondrous glow;
Though the beauty of summer days has fled,
And the autumn winds begin to blow;
The frost has nipped the flow’rets fair,
That we nursed and tended with so much care.

The beautiful vines that climbed so high,
And hung so graceful on wall and tow’r,
Are changing their colors, for ere they die,
They bloom as bright as the gayest flower;
And we gaze and wonder, so proud they seem
While passing away like a summer dream.

On the mountain side and hills are seen
The blazing sumach and maples red,
And a host of trees in their brilliant sheen,
Shimmer above where the flow’rs lie dead;
And a plaintive voice in the sobbing trees,
Mingles its tones with the passing breeze.

And what remaineth to tell the story
Of the radiant flowers and summer days,
When the earth seem’d crown’d in robes of glory,
And the song of nature like hymn of praise,
Trembled along the verdant land
And echoed afar on the ocean strand?

Why the harvest rich in its golden sheaves,
And fruits the garden and orchards bring;
And the lesson taught by the falling leaves,
That will live again in the breath of Spring;
And though the days are so sad and sober,
There’s beauty and grace in brown October.
E. B. W.


MISS HELEN A. WHITTIER is to repre-
sent at Atlanta, at Gov. Greenhalge’s in-
stance, the Colonial Committee of Mas-
sachusetts women who have sent a rich
collection of relics and souvenirs of our
colonial days. Miss Whittier has for some
years been the proprietor and active mana-
ger of a large cotton mill at Lowell—the
well-known Whittier Cotton Factory. She
is building a new mill at the South, and in-
tends that the product of her Southern mill
shall be of the coarser and cheaper fabrics,
which can be made there to good advantage,
with inferior help, while the head looms in
Massachusetts are exclusively occupied
with the finer grades of manufacture.


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER FROM DR.
ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

	DEAR READERS of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, your Editor has requested me to
give you some details of a 4000 miles jour-
ney.
	Monday June 17th, at 7 a. m., I left Salt
Lake City on an excursion train of inclining-
chair-cars to Council Bluffs by U. P. Rail-
way and was to return, from the Missouri
River by the D. & R. G. Railway, I ar-
rived at the Bluffs after two days and one
nights’s travel. Having thus crossed these
plains three times by team, and three by
cars. This was the limit of my excursion
ticket.
	Tuesday 18th, I expected to leave on the
evening train after getting lunch, ticket and
checks. I had forgotten to take into con-
sideration, as I was traveling eastward, it
was necessary to watch the depot time, in-
stead of my pocket time, which was that of
Salt Lake City. I was left about an hour
in the lurch. I telegraphed, “Got left,
come next train.” This was no loss to
me, for one needs a good night’s rest after
a thousand miles travel, and I got it.
	Wednesday, June 19th, fresh and happy I
started for Grinnell, Iowa on the Rock Island
Road. About sunset within two miles of
there, we found a freight train ahead with
a smashed up engine, waiting for another
one to draw it off the track. By this delay
we were unable to make connection. What
a blessing in disguise! To sleep nights,
and travel days. Nothing better.
	Thursday, 21st, I took the Iowa Central
for Fremont. I was met at the Depot at 2
p. m., by my niece Amelia Howell and her
husband; and had a four miles ride to their
farm. There I found four boys, and two
small girls happy to be acknowledged by
their aged grand aunt, Dear Readers, I can
tell you that as I seated myself at the table
with these fine looking, intelligent children,
whom I realized were my kindred, it was a
happy moment of my life.
	Friday, 21st, in the morning crossed
Skunk River to the other branches of the
family. Here I was greeted by a family
gathering, consisting of my brother Carlos
Stevens, seven years my senior, and his
wife, they were both very feeble. Their
daughter Jennie Brown, husband, and two
girls, the youngest of whom constantly
clung to my side, his daughter Ida Sullivan,
and husband, and two girls, and a very
bright little boy named after his grand-
father. The entire families both sides of
the river, number sixteen.
	For the sake of brevity, I shall have to
omit much that might be interesting, of the
domestic portion of my visit. I had been
planning to have my brother visit Nauvoo,
Ill. with me, to find my parent’s graves.
	Now it seemed providential, that an ex-
cursion train was to leave the next day for
Nauvoo. My brother said he was too
feeble to go, but consented Saturday 22nd,
at five o’clock a. m. My brother and I
started, and arrived by carriage at the depot
in time to go with the excursion. At 7 a.
m., we arrived at Burlington, at 12 o’clock

[Column 2]
took the excursion boat and reached Nauvoo
about 4 p. m. at the Upper Landing.
Fifty years had passed since I laid my
parents here to rest. A family of five were
then left and soon scattered, thousands of
miles apart.
	I hired a horse and carriage and called on
Phineas Kimball, brother-in-law of Sarah
M. Kimball, of this city. He invited us to
come to his house and make our stay after
our drive. I will here say that in all my
life, I have never received a heartier wel-
come, and been treated with greater hospi-
tality, than by Mr. Kimball and family.
His home is roomy and supplied apparently
with every needed luxury. After a couple
of hours sight seeing, the horse being tired
with having been worked all day, the
driver remarked, “There is no use of hunt-
ing for graves in a corn field.” So I dis-
charged the carriage as we arrived at the
south west corner of the Temple Block,
Here is located a drug store, into which we
went for my brother’s relief. As he was
weary, and his memory failed him, he
could not aid me, and I left him here till I
could locate the spot where my parents
lived and died. I found the place on the
corner of Warsaw (the north end called
Rich) and Ripley St. (the east end called
Commerce.) After I had walked from the
Temple Block, east, across five squares, and
one south, to this spot, and returned I
found my brother engaged in a lively chat
on politics, his favorite theme, in which he
keeps himself well posted. Although
weary, I felt happy that I had located one
land mark.
	Sunday morning, June 23rd, Mrs. Kim-,
ball said, “You leave your brother here and
take my husband and the carriage, and he
will drive just where you want, and you
can hunt all you like for those graves.”
We drove to my first land mark. Here my
recollection was aided by some supernatural
power. We went east then south on to
Parley St. then east nearly to the end of
this fenced up street; about a mile and a
half or two miles from the Temple Block.
Says I, “Mr. Kimball there it is in yonder
orchard.,’ This spot I afterwards learned
had been occupied the 4th of July 1853, as
a camping ground for a general holiday
celebration; later, a corn mill had been
erected there; afterwards a carding machine;
then a grape vineyard; and then an orchard
of large trees. Here I brought my brother,
and he was obliged to admit that I was cor-
rect, to the astonishment of those that had
aided me. What could I say, b[-]t that, the
Lord helps those who help themselves.
	This drug store referred to on the Tem-
ple Block, was built in the early fifties, by
the Icarian Society for a school house. I
have a sketch of their houses, and the Tem-
ple ruins as then existed. The stones of
the walls, were taken from the walls of the
Temple, many of which have been used
for similar purposes, and freighted up and
down the Mississippi River.
	Many of the more ornamental stones of
the Temple, I was told, were lying in a lot
in the eastern part of the city, and might
be very desirable as relics. As to the Tem-


[Column 1]
ple, there is not a vestige of it left to mark
the spot where it was once located, save the
well, which is hidden from view by old
buildings and rubbish. Oh how sad the
thought of the present condition, compared
with that of fifty years ago. Then a thriv-
ing city, of 20,000 people, with Temple,
halls, stores, and many improvements.
To day it is estimated to have a population
of only 1,400, and a lack of enterprise in
the same proportion. Then where there
was a large city of well laid out streets,
and comfortable homes. there is now only
a few of the original buildings remaining
as land marks. The old residences are
easily discerned, by their crumbling brick
chimneys, from other buildings, built from
several of the torn down brick ones. The
streets have been plowed up and fenced in-
to large fields and planted with corn, or
grape vines, the latter being cultivated ex-
tensively, resulting in the manufacture of
much wine, which is the main export. I
was told that the majority of the inhabi-
tants are Germans, and they are making a
grand success of grape culture.
	The predominating rule and faith is Ro-
man Catholic. A few of the Americans
are carrying on a small merchandising trade
to supply what demand there is. I recog-
nized Parley P. Pratt's buildings north of
the Temple Block, and the old Horne's
Store, as also the place where Mrs. Ad-
dison Pratt's house was, where she sup-
ported her family, tailoring, while her hus-
band was on the first mission of the saints
to the Society Islands. On her sister Caro-
line Crosby's lot, is remaining only the
small stone granary, but the house on the
adjoining lot formerly owned by Johnathan
Crosby's sister, Mrs. Thompson, now dead,
is in pretty good repair. A part of the
foundation that was made for the Nauvoo
house. has been lying all these years un-
touched, save by the weather's destructive
powers, and is therefore in a wasting con-
dition.
	I visited the grave of Mrs. Emma Smith
Bidamon, and was told that it was her
request to be buried by the side of her pre-
vious husband. Joseph Smith. After Mr.
Bidamon died, he was placed at the other
side of her. Thus presupposing that both
the martyrs, are lying by her more recently
made grave. After a twenty four hours
stay at this place, we took a skiff at the
Lower Landing, and were carried across the
Mississippi River, landing at Montrose,
at 5'clock, we took the cars and arrived at
Burlington, after a three hours ride, too
late to make connections, we took rooms
near the Depot for the night. I here went
to the drug store for my brother's benefit.
	Monday June 24, we were awakened at
4 o'clock, by whistles and noise of wagons,
hauling lumber for a lumber company.
The landlady said every thing in the busi-
ness line was very dull, and young men
had to go elsewhere to get employment.
Burlington is a city of 14,000 inhabitants.
At 10, o'clock we arrived at Fremont after
a three hours ride on the cars and four
miles by carriage. We then were glad to
settle down at my niece's for the balance of
the day and night.
	Tuesday June 25th, my brother took me
home with him accross the Skunk River.
Here I remained the next four weeks visit-
ing these families. I aided my niece Amelia
in nursing one child through an attack of
measles. During this time nothing of
special note occurred until the 21st, of July

[Column 2]
while I was stopping with my brother
when there was a death in the family of
Amelia Howell, my brother's daughter's
child, Emma Jane, died at 7-30 o'clock p.
m., Sunday 21st, of pneumonia resulting
from an attack of measles. This child was
attended by their family physician. Mon-
day 22nd, 3 o'clock; I was at the funeral.
Thus ended the short life of three years, of
a lovely promising child. God gives the
rose; but with it comes the thorns. I was
here detained on account of this sickness
and death. The heat to me here was very
oppressive.
	July 23, at 3 o'clock terminated my visit
at this place, all gathered, old and young,
around the carriage as I start, for an eight
miles ride, some worrying because of my
health, and traveling alone. This includes
three visits in fifty years; on I went arriv-
ing at the railroad station Delta in due
season for a good long night's ride. Could
only get ticket to Ottawa. I arrived at
Rock Island in the night, at 4 o'clock.
After a tedious endurance of the depot ac-
commodations of a couple of hours, we pull-
ed on to Ottowa, and another weary halt,
at which time we traveled on with rapid
speed.
	Wednesday July 24th, I arrived at York-
ville, Kendall Co. Ill., here the air seemed
cool, balmy and bracing. My dispatch had
not been delivered to Solon Boomer's family;
but all the same I was made welcome, by
himself, wife, son, three daughters, and
Ma Boomer. The entire family including
hired man, and girl, were early seated at
the supper table This charming home, of
harmony, education, refinement, freedom
and ease, one grand welcome to rest, enjoy
and be enjoyed; carriages hitched at will.
The husband full of wit and humor. What
would be more delightful? Cousin Lois
was more retiring. The sound of music
hurried me to the parlor, where I found the
son Henry, a handsome trim built man,
standing full six feet, with his cornet, and
sister Jessie at the piano. Each seemed to
have their several duties, to regularly at-
tend to in the morning. Thus as promptly
was every thing accomplished, and perfect
order reigned, and all ready for the next
thing on the program. It seemed no trouble
for cousin Lois to wheel her husband's mother
out to meals at the head of the table. The old
lady has not walked for seven years, and
though now 88 years of age, her spirits are
so mellow and peaceful, and she enjoys a
rich joke as well as the youngest.
	I visited Cousin Lois's mother in her
own home, and found her happily situated,
enjoying the society of her son Harland
Barnes, whose wife has buried her last, and
only child. These two aged ladies, samples
of peace and piety, I wish the whole world
could see, and take pattern from them. I
spent several hours in reading, and convers-
ing with them on theology.
	The third family, that of Ella Barnes
Raymond, has five small children. She is
living in a rented house, waiting to locate
their means, that they have economically
saved, for their growing family. Ah! The
youngest with her love and brilliancy, won
my heart as she nestled to sleep in my
lap. I did what I could to make my visit
with my kindred a success, in this particu-
lar; that they might know when I had left,
that they had been visited by a friend. I
also visited three burying grounds, in one
obtained record of my brother Carlos's
son, and searched, until I found, in another

[Column 3]
my twin brother's remains, even to the
metal plate that had been placed on his cof-
fin, on which was inscribed, "Barnard
Stevens, died March 13th, 1857; aged 27
years." As the old cemetery is private
property, and being transferred to the new,
I have since my return, Sep. 16, 1895,
placed these remains, in the Salt Lake
Cemetery on my lot, by the side of his sister
Jane Lewis's child buried 1849.
	I had made calculations to continue my
journey, Monday Aug. 5th, but I was again
detained. I went nine miles in a carriage
to Aurora Ill. with Cousin Jessie to get her
some glasses properly fitted.
	Tuesday, Aug. 6th, Cousin Lois wished
me to wait another day and go with herself
and daughter Edith, and visit her brother
Orton Barnes, and wife, and family of six
children in Memphis, Missouri. He served
three years in the Union Army, and was
wounded in the knee. I saw him when
he was home on a furlow in 1864 5.
Apparel, trunk-packing, lunch, and prere-
quisities hurried up.
	Wednesday, Aug. 7th, we were to take
the cars three miles distant at Bristol Sta-
tion. My heart ached most to leave poor
Ma Boomer, and cousin Mabel's tears flowed
freely as our genial visit was at an end, as
we hurriedly drove by Ma Barnes, she
saluted us from the porch. Arriving at
Burlington after dark with Edith sick, I
went to the drug store for remedies. Here
we separated, I for Montrose, and they for
Memphis, where I was to join them. I
arrived at Montrose at 10 p. m., previous
to taking a furnished room, I ordered a
skiff to cross the river in the morning.
	Thursday, Aug. 8th, at 6 a. m. I was
snugly seated in the stern end of the skiff.
Crossed the Mississippi and arrived at the
house of Phineas Kimball, just in time as
he was on the eve of going to Warsaw, to
an Old Settlers Political Gathering; but he
hurriedly with his carriage located me as
desired, for the purpose of finishing as far
as possible, the busines, that I had left un-
done.
	Friday, Aug. 9th. In the morning at the
table, Ethan Kimball placed kimself and
carriage at my service, which was accepted
until 12 o'clock, and I again had occasion
for gratitude. A rest in the afternoon and
I was then driven to the Lower Landing to
meet my previously ordered skiff, at
7 o'clock p. m. I recrossed the river. As
I took my last view of the beautifully lo
cated Nauvoo, once a lovely city on a hill,
where my parents lie at rest—Imagine
Reader my thoughts! Then checking my
baggage, I started for Keokuk at 11 o'clock
p. m. I was obliged, with my satchel,
to stop in the middle of a steep pitch to get
breath, and rest to my exhausted heart.
Here I got a part of a night's rest.
	Saturday Aug. 10th, 10'clock a. m. I
arrived at Memphis Mo. Being met at the
depot, by Orton Barnes and wife. After
riding nine miles to his farm, arrived with
good appetite in time for dinner, which was
served for sixteen. About the first subject
introduced was; that they had two young
people down with the typhoid fever. The
first, was a young man, and they sent for his
sister to come and care for him, and then
she took sick. I learned by letter that she
died Monday Aug. 19th, 1895. They sent
for another sister, to come and care for both.
This was not a pleasing prospect ahead of
me, but I trusted in the All Wise Power.
	Excuse me as a Suffragist: and I will


[Column 1]
tell you what Cousin Orton Barnes said,
"This wife, I, and five daughters and one
son, pull together; hence our success, with
twenty thousand dollars in the bank; and
hundreds of acres, of well cultivated land,
unencumbered with mortgages.” He also
like his brother Harlan is filling many
positions of public trust. He is also called
Dea. Barnes as was his father before him. His
piano, organ, and folding doors opening in-
to his three parlors, show that city talent
and education was being introduced into
the farm life.
	A great variety of tropical plants were
all around the house. Missouri is a corn
state, but here in the northern part some-
thing else is raised. To work seemed a
necessary appendage to this home; with so
many sick, and so many to eat, baking,
washing, churning, milking, ice-cream
making, yes even to riding the reaper.
So many girls, and but one boy. They
all seemed so well qualified to fill each
place, as it came along. One said "she
could run a farm as well as father." I
only got a glimpse of the work on this
mammoth farm, in the two rides; over the
hills, and hollows, seeing tenant houses,
and barns. Among the rest, while there,
a herd of cattle was bought, and turned in-
to a large pasture to use up the grass.
Cousin Orton said that his land would av-
erage from twenty, to forty dollars per
acre. Says I “You, with your varicose
veins, had better ride, and let some one
else work.” He said his son was going to
attend the farm, and the rest were going to
Memphis to finish their education, in the
High Schools.
	Monday Aug. 12, 8 o’clock a. m. I left
Cousin Lois and her brother Orton’s family
for Memphis. I got a ticket to Kansas City,
Kansas. Going east to Medill, at 12 a. m.
waited for connection. At 2 p. m. started
west to Kansas City, arriving in the night.
	Here I tried to use my excursion ticket,
by getting a lay off at Newton Kansas;
but the cash was what they required “six-
teen to one.” Here the immense amount
of travel required much care by the in-
dividual, as well as several policemen, that
each should at the proper time, get upon the
right car. Of course, the inclining cushioned
seat was nice, which I did not always have,
but I was not comfortable; yet, very thank-
ful that the rest were asleep, so that I
could walk the aisle. In traveling one
comes in contact with many opposing con-
ditions, but a little suavity helps to modify
and make many friends.
	It is a long road through Missouri, and
Kansas, with but little stay between.
	Tuesday Aug. 13th, 6 o’clock a. m., I
arrived at Newton. My mail which I sent
the day before I left Memphis came the day
after I did. What was the matter—No sis-
ter here—What was I to do? I enquired
after the engineer Trouslot.  I was directed
to the place by the depot policeman, who
said “You will see the new roof.” The
house had been torn a few days before by a
cyclone which I had just escaped by my de-
tention. I found the engineer asleep, as
also the rest of the family, save the hired
girl. Of course it would not be right to
wake an engineer, to have an early break-
fast; so, about half past nine o’clock, all
including my sister Amelia Trouslot, dined
together. How long could I stay? And
how much space have I left to tell it? Time
was pressing, and space is short.
	Julius Trouslot, and wife Lettie; welcomed

[Column 2]
me to their home, and set their table with
the luxuries of the land. His two sons,
and daughter, were furnished with a piano,
and school facilities; although yet young,
the eldest son, bid fair to equal the best.
The children appeared kind and affectionate
to their step-mother, and parents. His
wife, reminded me so much of my Aunt
Sarah Field—intelligent, and consistent.
I saw but little of him, he was off with his
engine till late at night, and slept late each
morning.
	My sister is very feeble; her wearied
face gave me pain, yet she works all the
time she is able. She feels she must be
employed; as she is skillful with the needle.
I had visited with her twice at my home,
since I had others of my kindred, and the
heat was so oppressive, I felt I must hurry
on.
	My sister writes that Aug. Monday 19,
after I left; their house was visited with a
terrific hail storm. The hail, measuring
five and six inches, broke all the glass in
her north window, into small particles and
scattered it all over the floor; piling up a
foot deep under the window outside. Strip-
ping the leaves from all the trees, and
ruining her plants and beautiful foliage.
She further informed me that Eugene had
laid off from his engine Sept. 9th, as there
were so many washouts, that Eastern trains
could not travel. Was not I favored?
	Thursday Aug. 15th, p. m. I started for
Colorado Springs. Not until now was I
able to use my excursion ticket, on my re-
turn; again checking my luggage, and
parting with my Sister Amelia, at the de-
pot who feared that we should not meet
again. My attention was attracted all the
way through Missouri and Arkansas, to the
almost exclusive cultivation of corn.
Corn! Corn! Johny-cake; and Corn! Noth-
ing else seemed to be raised.
	Friday Aug. 16th, at 8-30 a. m. I ar-
rived at Colorado Springs; very weary.
After considerable confusion and delay, I
got a lay off on my ticket for this place,
and Salida. Here my sister’s son, Rollin
Burdett Trouslot, met me at the depot. At
10 o’clock a. m. I arrived at his rented
house, and for the first time, saw his wife
and their one year old baby boy, named
Rollin Cunnabell Trouslot. Well they
may be proud of him, a picture of health
and beauty. The father is now full of care,
and anxiety, at work as General Manager
of the Colorado Automatic Telephone Co.,
hence his time is fully occupied. I gave
Satnrday up to rest.
(To Be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 21, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14th.
Tuition $50.00 Residence 238 East, 4th
South. Telephone 383.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONGRESSES OF WOMEN.

	THE first organization to meet in Atlanta
Georgia, will be the National Council of
Women of the United States, Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson, president. This congress
will open on the 7th of October, and will
close Saturday, the 12th. Twenty organi-
zations of women compose the council, and
they represent seven hundred thousand wo-
men. The King’s Daughters will be rep-
resented on the 14th, the Georgia Woman’s
Press Association will have a three days’
session, beginning on the second of the
month and closing on the 4th. The Na-
tional-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, with Miss Susan B. Anthony, its great
leader, will have the 17th. The Daughters
of the American Revolution on the 18th,


and the Colonial Dames on the 19th; the
World’s Fair Board of Lady Managers,
with Mrs. Potter Palmer at their head, on
the 22nd; the National Woman’s Press As-
sociation from the 22d, to the 26th, and the
Educational Congresses from the 26th to
the 30th of October will each furnish “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
Household Economics will require two
days, the 30th and 31st, in which to prove
that “There is is no place like home.”
This fact they will illustrate with a beauti-
ful cottage, which will be home of a work-
ingman and his wife and four children dur-
ing the three and a half months of the Ex-
position.
	The General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs (Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin, president)
will for the first time hold its federation
council in the South, on the 1st and 2nd of
November. The W. C. T. U. has accepted
the 5th of November, the Association for
the Advancement of Women will have the
4th, and the New England Woman’s Press
Association the 6th. For five days Mrs.
Lillian Cole Bethel will give lectures on
parliamentary law, and will conduct parlia-
mentary drills for the benefit of women of
the South.
	The International League of Press Clubs
will meet there in November, and the wo-
men members will read papers in the As-
sembly Hall on the 13th.


AUTUMN.

SELECTED.
THOU burden of all songs the earth hath sung,
Thou retrospect in Time's reverted eyes,
Thou metaphor of everything that dies,
That dies ill-starred, or dies beloved and young,
And therefore blest and wise—
O be less beautiful, or be less brief,
Thou tragic splendor, strange and full of fear!
In vain her pageant shall the Summer rear?
At thy mute signal, leaf by golden leaf,
Crumbles the gorgeous year.

Ah, ghostly as remembered mirth, the tale
Of Summer’s bloom, the legend of the Spring!
And thou, too, flutterest an impatient wing,
Thou presence yet more fugitive and frail,
Thou most unbodied thing,
Whose very being is thy going hence,
And passage and departure all thy theme;
Whose life doth still a splendid dying seem.
And thou at height of thy magnificence
A figment and a dream.

Stilled is the virgin rapture that was June,
And cold is August's panting heart of fire;
And in the storm-dismantled forest-choir
For thine own elegy the winds attune
Their wild and wizard lyre:
And poignant grows the charm of thy decay,
The pathos of thy beauty, and the sting,
Thou parable of greatness vanishing!
For me, thy woods of gold and skies of gray
With speech fantastic ring.

For me, to dream resigned, there come and go,
'Twixt mountains draped and hooded night and
morn,
Exclusive notes in wandering wafture borne,
From undiscoverable lips that blow
An immaterial horn;
And spectral seem thy winter-boding trees,
Thy ruinous bowers and drifted foliage we—
O Past and Future in sad bridal met,
O voice of everything that perishes,
And soul of all regret!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
		one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
	ut regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 1, 1895.


[Column 1]
STATEHOOD FIRST.

	ONE cannot help seeing and realizing
that these are very peculiar times, and that
the events now transpiring are significant of
the future, and are of the deepest interest
at the present, to all thinking men and wo-
men.
	The people of Utah are confronted by
problems and questions comparatively new
to them, and which are of the utmost im-
portance. Such changes have been
wrought within the last few years as were
"never dreamed of in our philosophy," to say
the least; however these conditions must be
met and carefully considered, and all rela-
tive matters adjusted for the best good of
the whole people, in the wisest manner and
by the most judicious methods. Every one
who loves Utah, who believes in the great
future that awaits the new state, with its
varied and abundant resources, its thrifty
and conservative people, must feel the deep-
est anxiety in the adjustment of all that
seems likely to hinder her material pros-
perity or her national importance. In-
dividual prejudices or those differences of
opinion which grow out of partisanship
ought not to stand in the way of progress
for a moment. Statehood first and other
things of minor importance afterwards. In
this connection the writer cannot help re-
gretting that statehood or the adoption of
the Constitution was not made a separate
election; but be that as it may as a matter
of opinion; the situation must be accepted
and arguments pro and con are of no
avail now.
	Stand firm and steadfast for statehood
should be the watchword, in the present
and every woman should see, that every
man does his duty at the polls, in this
respect at the coming election, as she can-
not vote herself.
	Statehood obtained many other things
may come up afterwards which it will be
comparatively easy to settle satisfactorily,
and therefore it seems now the imperative
duty of every person to use the utmost ex-
ertion and best endeavors to obtain such
political freedom as is accorded to all
citizens of sovereign states in this great
Republic.
	Women should take into consideration
too that statehood once gained they stand
equal with man in political importance,
and their opinions and views will have
some weight in the body politic thereafter.
	It is all so different since the adverse
decision of the Supreme Court of Utah on
the question of equal suffrage, and women

[Column 2]
are working at a great disadvantage, but
patience must be called into active exercise,
and women should stand for the best and
work with zeal worthy of the great cause
even if it is not agreeable to be pronounced
in their opinions and efforts; in view of a
great good to be achieved for the common-
wealth of Utah.
	Women in Utah should be as brave and
as patriotic as the women of any other
period of great importance, we reverence
the women of the revolutionary period,
why then when there is a grand opportunity
do not women come to the front and work
for that which will give them a similar
heritage to bequeathe to their children. It
is a patriotic duty not only to Utah but to
the whole nation to work for statehood,
because of the glory of the Republic which
becomes greater and more powerful with
each new state added to its number. Aside
from glory, or honor, women should take
such part in affairs relating to government,
especially the home department as will
have a moral tendency to its uplifting to a
higher standard. There are so many seri-
ous questions involved, which women are
well calculated to modify and to prescribe
for, and bring into the realm of politics
another element which may and necessarily
would effect a great change for the better.
In contemplating the conditions at the
present time one cannot help feeling there
should be a strong and determined effort
made to obtain statehood, that now is the
time and there is little time left to work in
before the election in November. Every
woman has some influence she can use in
this direction, and she should not lose her
opportunity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mr. M. A. Meyendorff a Polish exile,
and patient who is sojourning in this city
for a short time, is arranging to give a lec-
ture here on Russian prisons and life in
Siberia. One reads of these terrible things
afar off, but rarely does one hear from the
exiles their own story. Mr. Meyendorff
has had an eventful life, and his lecture
will be thrilling with actual experiences; as
he has a wonderful gift of describing the
scenes through which he has passed. Mr.
Meyendorff joined the Polish insurrection
in 1863 when a mere boy and was captured
by the Russian authorities and banished for
life to Siberia, although his father
was a Polish nobleman and held a high of-
fice in the Russian service. After spend-
ing eighteen months in Siberia, young
Meyendorff was released through the in-
tercession of the United States govern-
ment, and came to America where he has
since resided. Mr. Meyendorff is genial in
conversation, has a slightly foreign ac-
cent, and a distinctively European manner
and bearing. He is certainly a man of
culture and educational attainments and
cannot fail to be attractive as a public
lecturer.
	MRS. LOUISE BOYDEN, the teacher of
elocution and Delsarte gave a recital on
Tuesday evening, September 20th in
Christiansen's Hall which was quite a suc-
cess in an artistic way in showing off her
pupils, especially the younger ones, and it
proved too how diligent and pains-taking
the teacher had been to bring them forward
in difficult parts. The renditions by some
of them were excellent and deserve special
mention. The statuesque posing by Miss


Josie Morris was particularly pleasiug; the
“Scene from Leah,” by Blanche Thomas,
was artistically given, though a very diffi-
cult undertaking for one not accustomed to
the stage. Grandma’s Story by Frankie
Young was quite a finished piece of acting,
voice, manner and style all good; the musi-
cal number by W. C. Clive “Mazurka de
Concert” a new composition given for the
first time from the manuscript, was warmly
applauded and richly deserved it, all the
parts were well taken though we have not
space to mention in detail: Mrs. Boyden in
the merchant of Venice Act. IV. Scene I.
gave the audience a good idea of her versa-
tility. Mrs. Boyden spares no pains with
her pupils and is both diligent, and clever
in her line of work and certainly deserves
public recognition.


A BRIEF HISTORICAL SKETCH.

OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	THE organization of women known as
National Woman’s Relief Society with
headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah, is
both national and international in scope
and charatcer having branches in the
United States and in foreign countries.
This society though strictly charitable and
philanthropic is also educational in the best
and truest sense of the word, dealing with
the subjects that tend to the elevation and
advancement of women in all the lines of
thought and action that benefit humanity.
	The first organization of this society was
effected on the 17th, of March 1842, at the
Masonic Hall, in Nauvoo, Illinois. A
preliminary meeting of women had been
held previously at the residence of Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball at which time the mat-
ter of organizing an Association for bene-
volent purposes was considered and decided
upon. Mrs. Emma Smith was elected
President, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland Counselors,
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, Miss Phebe
Ann Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elivira Coules Treasurer. There were
nineteen original members including the
officers. The increase in membership dur-
ing the first two years reached 1275, the
number of names enrolled.
	When the “Mormon” people left Illinois
to journey westward to an unknown land,
the society could not operate as an organ-
ized body, and of necessity regular meet-
ing were discontinued, though the women
kept up their benevolent work, wherever
and whenever an opportunity presented it-
self, and many were in need of kindly acts
and deeds of charity, and sympathy, for
those were the days of toil and suffering, of
scarcity and hardships. There were few
gifts to bestow, but many lessons of
patience and resignation to be learned in
the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of the Salt Lake
valley organizations of the Relief Society
were formed as a natural out-growth of the
parent society in Nauvoo, for the same
spirit and sentiment still existed, and was
soon brought into active exercise. The
first general President was Miss Eliza R.
Snow, who had been the first secretary,
and had brought with her from Nauvoo the
records of the society.
	The benefits resulting from this organiza-
tion in the new colonies, cannot be over
estimated; women doing thorough practical,


[Column 1]
charitable duty in an efficiently organized
capacity in every ward and settlement,
proved of material benefit in those early
times. Later on with the facilities afforded,
when the borders of civilization were ex-
tended, and colonizing in new places became
a part of the program. the Relief Society
proved a positive advantage, giving to wo-
men the contact with each other in that
social way, which was in the best sense
co-operative and produced the best results
of mutual helpfulness, without seeming de-
pendence. The material resources at that
time were very few indeed, but the spirit of
improvement mentally and spiritually was
strengthened by meeting together regularly,
and the ministration of love and tenderness
in times of hardship, privation, sickness
and sorrow incident to the conditions,
of the colonists were beyond expression in
words.
	As prosperity came to the people the
society grew accordingly, and there were
many opportunities afforded to reach out
help and assistance to the needy, and to
teach practical and economic methods to
new-comers, who arrived y[-]ar after year in
this Western land in the Rocky Mountain
region. There is not time to tell of the
growth and development of the society, but
an estimate was made of the amount ex-
panded in charities at the time of the
Centennial celebration in Philadelphia in
1876, which was about twenty years from
the time of the permanent reorganization
of the Society in Utah. The total amount
accumulated and disbursed was over ninety
thousand dollars. Under the judicious
management of Miss Snow, aided by many
efficient workers, trained and disciplined in
the same methods, a perfect system of or-
ganization was effected, beginning with
wards, from that to counties (ecclesiastically
designated Stakes of Zion) which are all
under the supervision of a Central Board.
Each of these divisions and sub-divisions
have similar organizations to the Central
Board with control of their own local af-
fairs, but make regular semi-annual reports,
as ward organizations to the stake, and an-
nual reports as stakes to the Central Board.
The outside branches not included in stakes
and those in foreign countries, report direct
to the secretary of the Central Board.
Thus it is comparatively easy to transact
any business because of the thorough and
complete system of organization.
	The approximate amount of means ex-
pended for charity and similar purposes
during the five years from 1888 to 1892,
inclusive was $90,350,25.
	The Relief Society in its several branches
owns valuable real estate, halls to meet in
stores of dry goods and fancy articles and even
groceries, and other buildings for various
purposes; some have homes for needy and
aged women, in many places the local
society owns and operates millinery and
dress-making establishments, and in some
localities the Society has live, stock sheep
and calves, and also wool and other pro-
ducts. Many have dividends in stores,
factories and other enterprises. In many
places the society has granaries where grain
is stored away against times of scarcity and
famine. Some have land planted with
mulberry trees; for the cultivation of the
silk worm is one of the industries fostered
and encouraged b the society, and it is
particularly well adapted to the climate of
Utah. These industries and establish-
ments are not carried on for personal bene-

[Column 2]
fit, but in the interests of the society, that
the poor, aged and helpless may be assisted
from the profits of these enterprises, instead
of soliciting donations from the people; in
these and various other ways the society
renders valuable aid to women, who could
not otherwise become self-sustaining, and
one rarely ever hears of a failure in any of
the enterprises, managed and conducted by
women. One of the most unique plans
contrived by women in the country places
is putting aside Sunday eggs, and using
the means thus obtained for a fund. The
following figures of a three months report
is a fair sample and not exceptional. It is
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co. Utah.
Donations in Sundries,...........$78.55
Sunday eggs,..................109.58
Cash donations,..................89.00
Apple and mulberry trees,........41.00
Means from parties...............40.00
Quilts made,....................23.00
Total..........................381.13
	On the 17th of March, 1892, the Relief
Society celebrated its Jubilee of fifty years.
This anniversary was observed in all parts
of the world where branches of the society
had been organized, including Canada,
Mexico, the Sandwich Islands, Australia,
New Zealand, Great Britain, Switzerland,
Germany, Holland, Denmark. Sweden and
Norway and other foreign places. The
most distinctive feature of the celebration
was a prayer offered at high noon in every
place where the day was kept, forming as
it were an almost complete belt, or circle of
prayer around the world. The arrange-
ments for these services were made before-
hand by correspondence with the presiding
officers in all the several countries.
	In Salt Lake City the services of the day
were held in the large Tabernacle, which
was handsomely and appropriately decorat-
ed for the occasion. The great organ was
draped with the stars and stripes, the flags
extending across the entire front, and the
floral decorations were strikingly beauti-
ful. Life-size paintings of the general
presidents of the society were conspicuous-
ly hung, so as to be seen by the entire con-
gregation, (Mrs. Emma Smith the first
president, Miss Eliza R. Snow her succes-
sor and the present presiding officer Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young) an immense key made
of flowers (everlasting) was hung with the
pictures, representing the key of knowledge,
which was turned for women when the
society was organized. The large stands
for speakers were occupied by the officers
of the society, and eminent men and wo-
men of the church, and the immense
auditorium was well filled. The exercises
were conducted by the President Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, the Tabernacle choir, under
the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered choice musical selections, anthems
etc., and Professor J. Daynes accompanied
on the great organ. The character of the
speeches was mostly historical, going back
over the half century of work, recounting
some of the difficulties and obstacles en-
countered, and eulogizing the brave pioneer
women workers, who had passed away.
This was the most important meeting the
society has ever held, especially on account
of its being general in every branch of the
entire organization in all lands. The after-
noon and evening were kept as a holiday
in feasting with the poor, and in entertain-
ments of a social, literary and musical

[Column 3]
character throughout all the society in every
land and country. Reports of the interest-
ing meetings, feasts, and entertainments
were made by the local secretaries, and for-
warded to the Central Board in Salt Lake
city, so that the society has on hand a com
plete record of the Jubilee.
	There are many interesting things in
connection with the history of this society,
but there is not time to go into details,
suffice to say it has been an important
school of instruction to its members;
though the main object of the society is
the care of the needy, the sick, the helpless
and the unfortunate, to visit the widow and
the fatherless, to administer comfort and
consolation as well as temporal relief to
physical wants, to see that none are left
to suffer, and to encourge habits of industry
and economy in those who are able to do
something towards their own support, to
provide ways and means for such persons,
and give instruction if necessary to those
who through lack of training, or misfor-
tune need special attention. Also to care
for the dying and the dead, to be at the bed-
side of the lonely ones when death is near,
to robe the body neatly and properly for
burial when all is over, and to perform
those kindly deeds with tenderness and
grace. This is a part of the mission of the
women of this society, it is useless to en-
umerate all the duties, privileges and bless-
ings pertaining to this grand institution,
but many lessons of patience, long-suffer-
ing and forbearance have thus been
learned, and the higher and better quali-
ties of head and heart developed and cul-
tivated; pride, envy, jealousy and avarice
subdued, and a higher standard of human
excellence attained than could possibly
have been reached in any other way.
	In 1891, at the National Council in
Washington, D. C. the Relief Society be-
came connected with the National Council
of Women of the United Statea. This en-
titles the society to an equal standing with
all the great organizations thus federated in
the Council, giving to each and all this
broad system of representation, and of be-
coming widely known, not possible ex-
cept by united efforts.
	October 10, 1892, the society was incor-
porated under the name of the National
Woman’s Relief Society. This step had
been meditated for some time and articles
of incorproation had been prepared, for the
safer conduct and management of the tem-
poral affairs, of so large and important an
institution. Separate articles of association
have been adopted by auxiliary branches of
the society, which give each respective
society complete control of its own property,
with power to transact any business per-
taining thereto.
	The present status of the society is very
encouraging; as the people spread out in-
to new localities, more organizations are
effected, more buildings erected, and home
industries adapted to the needs of the society
and the locality are being established. One
of the notable characteristics of the women
thus organized is their practical indepen-
dence. In the regular meetings of the
society women have been for years in the
habit of speaking upon the topics of the
times, thus keeping posted upon current
events, and in this way have gained such
confidence that it is comparatively easy to
address an audience on ordinary subjects
without notes. A considerable number of
the members are widows, or single women,


depending upon their own exertions, and
the management of their own affairs, yet
they are as generous in contributing time
and material assistance, and as helpful in
suggesting ways and means of building up
the society, as women of leisure, whose
husbands provide for the household.
	The society as a whole believes in equal
suffrage, and has ever since the Legisla-
ture of the Territory extended the fran-
chise to the women of Utah in February
1870, taught and inculculated the principle
of equal political rights.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper established in June 1872,
has been a powerful factor in aiding the
society in all its departments, publishing
regular reports, and keeping its affairs be-
fore the general public; it is also very help-
ful in historical matters of the society, and 
of woman's work in general in Utah, and 
elsewhere.
	The present officers of the society are
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young President, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, First Vice-President, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Vice-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Third Vice-
President; Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Sec-
retary and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer.  There are thirty-five stakes
regularly organized in this western country,
besides those in foreign lands, and on the
islands of the sea, each with the same of
ficers as the Central Board and these stakes
with separate branches in various localities
in different parts of the United States and
the world, include between five and six
hundred branches with a total membership
of about thirty thousand women. The 
value of property as a whole cannot be
calculated easily, as values change so much
in real estate, buildings, rents and interest
or profit on dividends; and grain is never
reported in any other way except in bushels.
but there is sufficient given in this sketch
to show what the society really is, and what
it stands for in the way of temporal pros-
perity, material progress, and advancement
in everything which means mental, social
and spiritual uplifting, and mutual helpful-
ness for women
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
   	 Secretary National Woman’s Relief
	Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	MRS. WELLS: The next speaker will be
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honarary Vice President
of the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
and the pioneer woman of Woman Suf-
frage in Utah.
	Miss Anthony: I am very proud as
President of the National Association to in-
troduce to you the Honorable Vice Presi-
dent which we at our last session appointed
for Utah Honarary Vice President of the
National Association.
	Mrs. Kimball: Miss President. Ladies
and Gentlemen:—We are expected to wel-
come Miss Anthony; in the midst of all
this confusion and after what has been said,
what can I say? Excuse me but I will say
I am proud of the honor that has been con-
fered upon me on this occasion, and on be-
half of the Suffragists of the Territory of

[Column 2]
Utah, which is soon to become a state and
in behalf of the friends of suffrage through-
out the Territory, I extend to Miss Anthony
the right hand of fellowship, and with all
reverence, honor and love: I want to be a
little personal. Allow me to say in the
earley fifties I read an article ridiculing a
little paper that was published in the City
of New York called the “Revolution” in
which I saw the names of Elizabeth Cady-
Stanton and Miss Susan B. Anthony. I
looked at the little article of ridicule and I
said “There is something I see in that
which strikes me and I want it," and I
reached out after the little paper I was very
much struck with it. It was very peculiar
and said very many strange things, but I
learned from that little paper the theory and
object they had in view was to create
thought, their idea was if you can get the
people to talk upon this subject, if you can
get them to agitate the subject, agitation
produces reform. Now this is going to be
a reformation and we are going to do all we
can to produce this reformation and we are
going to labor in our own way. Now 52
years ago I would not have dared to say the
bold, grand things that Miss Anthony said,
it would have made me so unpopular and I
hardly dared to shoulder it; but the seed
was planted within my soul and I have been
laboring for the same cause—I felt that it
was uplifting, that it was necessary for the
nation, and as time rolled on we were very
careful. I heard Miss Anthony say in
those days "I did not dare to speak with-
out a paper in my hand” and Mrs. Stanton
did a great deal of writing but she soon got
so she could talk very well and she traveled
in her own way and talked in her own way.
People criticized her and told many ridiculous
things about her and in many ways she was
abused and insulted. My sympathy went
out for Miss Anthony and my sympathies
have been with her work ever since I have
known her, and in my heart I have blessed
her many and many a time and the result
of her labors we are reaping more today
than we realize. I never could have done
the work that I have done in this Territory
had it not been for the work Miss Anthony
did before me. [applause.] Many could
not do the work we have done today, if I
had not pioneered the way. (Applause)
I have had the honor to be addressed by
strangers as Miss Anthony—I had that
honor this morning on the stage by a lady
from Colorado, I think, but Miss Anthony
is a much better looking woman than I am
but that is all right. I must say again Miss
Anthony, I am glad to see you and our
Territory will be proud of your visit, and
we expect that you will do us good and
we hope that you will go from us with
pleasant remembrances of this visit. I
want to say a little more about Miss An-
thony. They used to throw eggs at her
and they used to say the most ridiculous
things about her, and they used to hiss her.
When she went to St. Louis a great many
years ago to deliver a lecture, some one
was kind enough to pass a basket of flowers
to the stage and she looked at them with
amazement and stepped back and said: “I
don’t know how to receive this. Now if
you had thrown rocks at me I would have
had a defense, I would have had some-
thing to say right away."
	On the anniversary of Miss Anthony’s
seventieth birthday it was my privilege to
be in Washington and I attended the grand
banquet, at which Miss Anthony received

[Column 3]
the most distinguished honors that I ever
saw extended to a woman and she has now
lived until she has arrived at that position
in which Napoleon was placed at one time
when he attended a banquet. Someone
criticized where his seat was at the table.they
said, “Napoleon, you should have been set
at the head of the table.” He said, “That
is all right, I am Napoleon and wherever
Napoleon is there is the head of the table,”
(applause) and wherever Miss Anthony is
there is the head of the Woman Suffrage
Movement. (Applause.)
	Mrs. Wells. Ladies and Gentlemen—
This is Mrs, Zina D. H. Young, President of
the Nationol Relief Society and also Hon-
arary Vice-president of the Suffrage Associa-
tion and Honorary Vice-president of the
National American Suffrage Association.
(Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.
	Governor of Utah, Ladies and Gentlemen
—You have heard this morning that which
ought to make our hearts glad, that which
should make us thankful to our Heavenly
Father that we live in this stage of the
world that our womanhood is appreciated
and I thank God that I am a woman, and
I am thankful that we have the privilege of
independence in seeking to raise our boys
and girls to be men and women that will
appreciate the dignity of the times we live
in. In the early days to lay the foundation
of this State many of the pioneers laid
down their lives and all of us laid our-
selves on the altar when we started for Utah.
Applause. We now see the result of the
work that has been done and as the last
lady speaker has observed, we will be glad
to see on every flag of the Union that Wo-
man’s Suffrage is especially honored and
that woman is honored in her position. Is
there any nation on the earth that is raised
to dignity and honor without the noble
mothers who pray for them, who think for
them, whose milk flows to sustain life, and
how great is the calling, how great is the
power of a righteous mother. Do we not
all praise the mother of George Washing-
ton and there are many others that can be
mentioned whose names are to be revered,
and the mothers who are here to-day will
be held in reverence and esteem as the
mothers of the coming generations of the
world. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—“I am very glad to pre-
sent to you Mrs William Ferry, who
twenty-one years ago lived at Grand Haven,
Michigan, at the time of the great Woman
Suffrage Campaign in the state of Michigan
in 1874 at the close of which 40,000 of the
best men of the state went to the ballot-
box and voted for us, but unfortunately for
us a majority voted no. Mr. Ferry him-
self was the chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Campaign of the state at
that time and Mrs. Ferry took a great in-
terest in our cause. Mr. Ferry helped to
carry on the campaign throughout the
state, so Mrs. Ferry stands here as the rep-
resentative of a state in which this question
was defeated at the ballot-box, and I rejoice
with her that she and her husband can to-
day be residents of a state in which the
great question is triumphant. I have the
honor to introduce to you Mrs. William
Ferry formerly of Michigan, now of this
Territory. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. WILLIAM FERRY
OF PARK CITY.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: I am here to-


day in honor of Miss Anthony and for the
reverence I have had for her for many
years. In finishing my school days, not
my education for that can never be finished,
but the school days in Rochester, New
York, a friend of mine the Hon. Geo. A.
Hollister had a great admiration for Miss
Anthony; and he got me interested in her
when I was eighteen years of age,and from
that time on I have looked upon her work
and have honored her for it and have in-
terested myself and been in sympathy with
the principles that she has advocated.
(Applause.) I am not here to say what shall
be done in Utah to-day, but I am here to
say that the women all over the world
should do their very best, that they should
take upon themselves and help place upon
them the authority to do that which will
make them the best mothers, the best wo-
men and the best part of humanity. As
to what has been said this morning I am in
full sympathy, but what I have to say to
you just now is to repeat what I have said
of my respect and admiration for Miss An-
thony and for the great work that she has
done and for her colleagues in this work,
and I trust the day is coming to Utah,as I
believe it is all over the Union when in
every state there will be a Suffrage Flag,
when before the door of every home there
will be as we heard in one of the churches
yesterday, a family flag, but here in this
country that it shall represent the father
and the mother, the son and the daughter
with all the privileges that can make the
very best of their opportunities not only for
themselves but for the world around them.
I was particularly interested in that thought
which was expressed by one of the speakers
this morning, in that which particularly
belongs to women, the home, the school,
the morals, the good which is desired by
every true woman should be helped along,
and I believe that it will never be done suc-
cessfully until women have the ballot.
Applause.
	Miss Anthony:—“I want to present to you
Mrs. Bathsheba Smith whose husband was
one of the first men to speak for the wo-
men of Utah to have the ballot in the days
gone by. He was in the legislature and
did his utmost in that direction, he did per-
haps quite as much to help submit and
bring into formation many of the laws of
this Territory, as any other man and his
name is well known among the people as is
also the name of his good wife.” Applause.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—l am very happy
to be here and I have listened with great
pleasure to what has been said this morn-
ing, and I rejoice in the hope that we will
soon become a state and that women will
have equal suffrage. I did not expect to
be called upon to speak as I never was a
speaker, but am a worker. I don’t care to
add many words when there are so many
able speakers here to address you, but I
will say that “I am very glad to be here.”
Applause.
	Miss Anthony: We have all got to
preach this morning ‘‘I am glad to be here”
and I hope if there is any one here who
does not get called out personally, whose
spirit is moved to say "I am glad to be
here” to understand that there is perfect
freedom to say what you wish. Mrs. Wells
knows most of the people and I see she is
bringing up another lady now, Mrs. C. E.
Allen, of Salt Lake City, you will recog-
nize the name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.
	HORACE MANN once said that “the
Lyceum was the People’s College.” The
great educator, whose memory we cherish,
passed away too soon to recognize the pow-
er of clubs organized by women as educa-
tors and character-builders.
	If an occasional lecture at the Lyceum
was indeed a college, then our clubs are
universities, where post-graduate courses
are obtained, and special degrees granted to
the faithful.
	It is especially difficult to write briefly
on this large subject, and also difficult to
avoid trenching upon the ground of Home
Education. To my mind, any education
which does not find its root and sustenance
in a well-ordered home is lamentably de-
fective. The Woman’s Club educates both
sexes. Every woman carries to the man
near her the influence of the club, and yet
we have in our own State women who dare
not belong to a club,because their husbands
oppose it. This ignorance and prejudice is
fast wearing away, for quite recently a
prominent business man was heard to say
“that he could not afford to permit his wife’s
membership to lapse, for the club was a
social force which affected his business.”
	The least conspicious and most retiring
member may often be a quiet tower of
strength, because she has been educated out
of weakness into a broader development,
and is capable of influencing others.
	Much of the success of the Kindergarten
movement is due to the repeated discussions
of the question in clubs. The mother
there first learned the truth and passed it
on, until public opinion was educated suf-
ficiently to accept it.
	Every theory of education must depend
largely upon women for development; they
are in the majority as teachers, and the day
will doubtless come when school superinten-
dents will be at least equally divided among
the sexes. Men find little time for detail,
little for the study of children, and they
gladly leave such matters to the mother-
hood and innate quickness of our sex. Club
women have almost invariably been selected
for supervisors or upon school committees,
as they have informed themselves concern-
ing the various methods of education in
their clubs.
	A bright woman, writing from the Far
West, says, “I was utterly forlorn when I
first wrote you. I chanced to see in an old
newspaper brought in about some goods an
item concerning a lecture on ‘food.’ We
live in a section of country where food is
abundant and money scarce. We need to
be instructed concerning the value and
nourishing properties of food, and especial-
ly concerning the diet of growing children.
Out of this desire, with your help, a club
was formed, some riding six and even ten
miles to hear a paper read, ‘a real paper.’as
they say, ‘exactly the same as the ladies in
Boston listen to.” A few months after
the formation of the club our correspon-
dent wrote: “We are more than happy for
the inspiring words sent us by Eastern
friends. You are helping us to a broader
and better education.”
	Our public schools bear testimony to the
work of women’s clubs: better school-
houses, larger grounds, sanitary plumbing,
fewer home studies, manual training, music,
cooking, drawing, physical culture,
political economy, and kindred topics were
discussed in clubs everywhere before they

[Column 2]
were known to the public. A true republic
must be founded on the principles of justice
and patriotism, so our clubs teach.
	The clubs educate women and take them
out of the ruts. They teach them to know
fhemselves, to value the sacredness of home
and motherhood, to contend against exist-
ing wrongs, to apply needed remedies, and
to adopt business methods. Thought-
sharing is the highest kind of profit-shar-
ing, and thought-sharing is the foundation
principle of all clubs. Their educating in-
fluence cannot be measured by the few facts
here presented. As the stone thrown into
the water creates endless circles and ripples,
so must our thought currents act and react
upon the lives of others. The great club
movement is to me part of the Divine evo-
lution of our time. Where it changes old
and established things it improves and en-
riches: every step forward must be measur-
ed by the rule of wisdom before taken;
every one must come to feel that this tre-
mendous educative force is far beyond all
personal pettiness or prejudice. It sur-
rounds the invalid in her sick-room; the
mother mourning for her child; the minis-
ter in his pulpit, and the orator on the plat-
form. It supplements the school-room and
college, and makes the Higher Education
truly high, aiming toward a perfected
humanity. Thus shall we pass on from
nature to immortality.
	KATE TANNAT WOODS.


NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S. A.

	AMENDMENTS to by-laws of N. A. W.
S. A , proposed by Harriet Taylor Upton.
To amend by-law X section I by striking
out the word four in second sentence and
substituting five instead. To amend by-
law X section II by changing it to by-law
XI. To amend by-law X section 12 by
changing it to by-law XII. To amend by-
law X section 13 by changing it to by-law
XIII. To amend by-laws by adding by-
law XIV as follows: These by-laws may be
amended by a two thirds vote at any an-
nual meeting, one day’s notice having been
given in convention. Amendment to con-
stitution, proposed by Louisa Southworth:
That the name of this organization be sim-
plified by expunging two adjectives, Ameri-
can and Woman, and that it shall adopt for
the future the more convenient title of Na-
tional Suffrage Association.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

MISS ALICE FLETCHER is a delegate from
the Scientific Association to the Congress of
Americanists, which will meet in the city
of Mexico, October 15.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER will speak for
woman suffrage this winter. Her subject
will be “The Ballot and the Cradle.” She
will explain the relation of woman suf-
frage to the home and the State.
	SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., has according to
the Searchlight, at least four women
notaries in that city: Mrs. Ralph Smith,
Miss Hanson, Miss Addie Ballou, and Mrs.
Phillips.
	MISS ANNA GORDON has been made
American Secretary of the Mowbray
House Cycling Association, the leading
woman’s cycling club in London. Miss
Gordon has been for many years Miss Wil-
lard’s private secretary.


MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
is recovering slowly from her recent illness,
which was for so long a time thought to be
fatal. She is being cared for by her sister,
Miss Augusta Dodge. We hope she may
live to see the release of Mrs. Maybrick,
for which she has worked so perseveringly
and unselfishly.
	HON. JOHN HOOKER, the husband of
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, was serious-
ly injured by being run into by a bicyclist
at Hartford, Conn. Mr. Hooker was car-
ried home, where it was found that the
right thigh bone was broken. He is al-
most eighty years old.
	THE directory of the State bar of Nebras-
ka contains the names of nine women at-
torneys: Ada M. Bittenbender, Winona S.
Sawyer, Mrs. Zara Wilson and Nellie M.
Richardson, Lincoln; Mrs. Fannie O’Linn,
Chadron; Alice A. Minick, Beatrice; Miss
E. E. Wright, Scotia; Mae B. Wood,
Omaha; Kate M. Hall. Ord.
	THE Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Asso-
ciation held its annual convention in San
Francisco early in September. Mrs. Ada
Van Pelt, editor of the Pacific Ensign, the
State W. C. T. U. paper, was re-elected
president, and Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, first
vice president. The resolutions adopted
included the following; “We heartily en-
dorse the suffrage amendment giving the
franchise to woman, and urge every man to
vote for the same.”
	HON. E. M. CORRELL, the champion of
the woman suffrage amendment in the
Nebraska legislature in 1881, died recently
at home in Hebron. Mr. Correll was a
consistent and able advocate of woman
suffrage in his different terms as a member
of the Nebraska House, as editor of the
Hebron Journal, as a leader in the G. A.
R., in every capacity, his voice and in-
fluence might always be counted on to aid
the movement for woman’s legal and politi-
cal equality.
	MRS. BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, secretary of
the American Peace Bureau, has received
the thanks of Emperor William of Ger-
many, conveyed through the German
Ambassador, for congratulations forwarded
to him on the occasion of the opening of
the Baltic and North Sea Canal. The Em-
peror expressed gratification that “his in-
tentions and endeavors are fully understood
and appreciated by the distinguished pro-
moters of the noble aims which form the
purpose of your association.
	GOVERNOR GREENHALGE, of Mass. in
‘‘the Parliament of Man.” at the Park
Street Church vestry, Boston, last Wednes-
day, spoke noble words for woman suffrage.
He said:
	“When I use the term man, it includes
woman, or rather woman includes the
whole business. (Applause.)
	I urge it upon every woman in the Com-
monwealth to come to the polls next No-
vember and do her duty.”
	This appeal sounds like a clarion call
throughout America for good citizenship.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CURE FOR POISON IVY.

	AN excellent remedy for this poison is the
whey obtained by scalding sour milk. Dip
cloths in the whey and apply to the affected
parts renewing with fresh ones as fast as
they dry, until the fever subsides. Do not
use the same cloths more than once.


PRACTICAL inventions by women are
making a good showing at Atlanta. Em- 
ma Farrell, of Brooklyn, has invented a re-
volving frying pan, and Mrs. A. E. Taylor,
of Brooklyn, a bed-clothes fastener, which
is a handy contrivance to keep the clothes
over the children at night. Mrs. H. Ryan
contributes a metal liquid polish, which
polishes all metals, hot or cold.

Ellis R. Shipp, M.D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 2l, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst’
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 44 S,
MAIN STREET
Opp.Zion's Co-op. Mer. Inst’n.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	THE Woman’s Congress of the Association for
the Advancement of Women will be held this
year in New Orleans, Nov. 6, 7, and 8. It will be
preceded as usual by a Business Meeting of of-
ficers on the evening of Nov. 5. By special ar-
rangement a preliminary meeting of one day will
be held in Atlanta, Ga., Nov. 4.
	JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
	LILY LORD TIFFT, Secretary.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to Martha Pane Jones
Thomas who departed this life September 5th,
1895.
	Whereas in the Providence of an Allwise God,
we have been called upon to part with our be-
loved sister and friend, who having led a noble
life on earth, and filled her position as counselor
in the Relief Society in an exemplary manner
from the time of its first organization to within the
last four or five years on account of her extreme
old age—
	We her co laborers deem it a pleasant duty to
testily to her faithfulness and integrity in the cause
of truth.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we extend our
sympathy to her family in their bereavement, hav-
ing lost a faithful loving mother and friend.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has called her
home as a shock of corn fully ripe--Therefore
be it resolved, we the members of the Relief
Society do cherish her memory and emulate her
virtues and strive to carry out in our lives her
motherly counsel which was always wise in tem-
poral as well as spiritual things
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family. A c[-]py be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society and a copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	IN memory of Sister Susannah W. Perry who
died in Cedar City Sep. 11th, 1895; she was born
in Lancashire, England, on the 19th, of May,
1825. Sister Perry embraced the Gospel in her
native land in the year 1848 and in connection
with her husband emigrated to Utah, arriving in
Cedar City in the year 1852, where she has resided
up to the time of her death. Sister Perry faith-
fully fulfilled the duties of a mother in her own
household and teacher in our Relief Society for
many years.
	Her words of encouragement and kind deeds,
and her strict attendance to the meetings, proved
her faithfulness in this work. She had a remark-
able memory and having read the Scriptures a
great deal could refer to any passage in them.
Suffering from a cancer, the pain of which at
times was almost unendurable, for over two years;
she many times would refer to the trials of Job,
and the great faith he had in his Maker. Her
last hours were seemingly without much pain, and
comforted and sustained by the loving presence
of her husband and her ten sons and daughters,
her spirit took its flight to that home she loved to
sing about.
	The funeral services were conducted in the
Tabernacle, May 13th. Several of the brethren
eulogizing the character of our dear sister and
exhorting those left behind, to emulate her vir-
tues, which may we all strive to do.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
Cedar City.

MRS. MARY A. BAKER TANNER.
	TO the many friends and acquaintances of Mary
R. Baker Tanner, I announce her death, which
occured in Grantsville Utah, Oct. 7th, 1894. She
was seventy years of age the 12th of March, 1894.
Although a great sufferer from asthma since
childhood, her last sickness was brief, she, being
in usual health, until two weeks previous to her
death. It would take many pages to relate the
story of the life of this energetic and good wo-
man. It is well known to all her acquaintances
with what willing hands she administered acts of
kindness to those about her.
	She has been identified with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from an early
date, moving with her parents from her native
state (New York) to Kirtland, Ohio, she joined
the church at the age of thirteen years.
	It was at this place she first saw the prophet
Joseph Smith and declared him to be a Prophet
of God, and bore testimony of it faithfully to the
last.
	From Kirtland she moved to Illinois the winter
the Saints were driven from Missouri.
	With her parents from that place moved to

[Column 2]
Iowa, living there till the Saints were driven
from Nauvoo.
	At Council Bluffs she was united in marriage to
Elder Nathan Tanner. In 1849 she crossed the
plains, part of the time driving an ox team.
	She bore all the trials of life with great patience
and faith. Many times she has borne testimony
to the gift of healing.
	She not only did all she could for herself
spiritually, but performed the work for many of
her dead kindred, and was a faithful member of
the Relief Society.
	She was a faithful and loving wife and although
bearing no children she was a mother indeed.
Many will speak of some kind deed done, and
good counsel given, by Aunt Mary.
	Few have passed away being as well prepared
in all things. She has finished her work and lain
down to a quiet rest.
	"Happy soul thy toils are ended
	And thy trials here below
	Now with angel guides attended
	And a crown on thee bestowed."
COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1895. No. 10.


CONTENTS:

Letter From Nauvoo—E. J. S. Utah W. S. A.
—Nellie Little. R. S. Report—Cardston Canada
—Jane W. Bates. Relief Society Conference—
E. B. Wells. An Open Letter From Dr. Elvira
Stevens Barney. Conference N. A. W. S. A.
In Rural England—A Story. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Women Should Work For State-
hood.
	POETRY:—Who Knows—Selected. Wedding
Bells—Lydia D. Alder.


WHO KNOWS.

Who knows we have not lived before
	In forms that felt delight and pain?
If death is not the open door
	Through which we pass to life again?
The fruitful seed beneath the sod
	In infant bud and bloom may rise;
But by the eternal law’s of God
	It is not quickened till it dies,
The leaves that tremble on the tree,'
	Fall neath the stroke of autumn’s storms
But by some mighty mystery.
	With spring return in other forms.
As currents of the surging sea,
	From undiscovered sources flow—'
So what we were and yet may be
	In this brief life we may not know.
But oft some unexpected gleams -
	Of past and unremembered years,
Break through the doorway of our dreams
	And some familiar face appears—
A kindred spirit lost awhile,
	Amid the change from death to birth.
Whose beaming eye and loving smile ..
	Recall some former scenes of earth.
And thus unconscious of the tie—
	The mystic link that love creates—
Perhaps we see our own who die,
	In newer forms and other states. 
Perhaps with every cycle passed.
	In all the ages yet to be.
Our loved will come to us at last,
	As parted waters find the sea—.
Not wholly clad as they were seen
	When death unbound their robes of clay;
But with seraphic face, and mien
	And souls that may not pass away.
SELECTED.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM NAUVOO.
Mrs E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR SISTER:—Here we are in this,
once delightful spot once so dear to the
Saints, our party consisting of Elder An-
drew Kimball, wife and children, Edward
Stevenson and wife, Sister Lyon and six
young Elders, left our mountain home
Wednesday Sept. 4th, 9 a. m. on the U. P.,
arrived in Denver on the 5th at 7 a. m.
Spent the day taking in some of the sights,
the rest of the company meeting us there.
Left Denver 8-p. m., arriving in St. John
Kansas, Saturday 12th, 10 a. m., having
had a very enjoyable trip with the excep-
tion of its being so excessively warm At

[Column 2]
the station we were met by nearly all of the
Elders in the Indian Mission, to say the
least we had a very pleasant and profitable
visit in St John; having spent five days
there, welcomed on every hand not only by
the Saints, but also by all not of our faith,
with whom we came in contact. There
are some most excellent people in that part
of the vineyard and it seems to me there is
a great work to be done; there are also
laboring among them, some of the most
noble of Zion’s sons, faithful and true as
usual. The new meeting house which was
dedicated on Sabbath afternoon, Sept. 8th,
is a monument of their usefulness, not only
spiritually but also physically, to these
young Elders who laid off their coats and
put on over-alls and erected it, will the
blessings be ascribed! We had a most ex-
cellent conference which has been written
up to several of the papers also lectures
and concerts in the evening, (occupying all
the time) in which the talent of our boys
as well as some of our sisters were made
manifest; being given on such short notice
there was no time for preparation, two of
our Elders being ill with chills and fever
(which is very prevalent in these parts) and
another one being taken ill was the only
drawback to our pleasure; but these were
all made better by the blessings of the
Lord, for which we felt to praise His holy
name. Wednesday evening we called on
Mr. Pinkerton the leader of one of the
off-shoots of the true Church (from him have
also dissented several others,) we had a
pleasant chat but while conversing with
him I could not help but draw the compari-
son between our own revered President W.
Woodruff and him, also Presidents Young
and Taylor. Poor old man there he is left
with but a few, yet he feels that he is right.
	Thursday 12th, 6 a. m. we took an
affectionate farewell of our friends in St.
John and proceeded on to Kansas City,
where we sojourned for a time, then took
train for Independence twelve miles, where
we arrived 6-30 p. m.; being very weary
we felt thankful for a night's rest, but alas!
the weather was so oppressive that the rest
was not what we desired. Next day 13th,
three of our Elders having met us we all
visited the Temple Block there we remained
for some time; holding converse, also in-
voking Divine protection to continue with
it, having spent a very happy time, we
visited other places of interest then went on
to Kansas City, visited some time with our
boys, then bade them God speed invoking
divine blessings to rest upon them in con-
nection with all the rest, these having been
assigned to labor in the Indian Territory.
We again returned to Independence, next
morning, 14th, we visited Mr. Hill, the
President of the Hedrickite Church, had
a very pleasant conversation, took leave
then repaired to the magnificent Court-
house visited there, ascended to the top,
whence we took a grand view of the sur-
rounding country, which certainly is very
beautiful we again took train for Kansas
City where we took train for Cameron ar-
riving there at 9 a. m., after a refreshing
night’s rest, next day, 15th, we took con-

[Column 3]
veyance for Far West where we spent, a
most interesting time though very seriously
reflecting upon scenes of the past, we also
called on Mr. Whitmer, a nephew of David
Whitmer whose uncle was one of the three
witnesses, to the Book of Mormon, who
received us very kindly, himself and wife,
showing us their lovely home and surround-
ings; our visit over we returned to Camer-
on, where we took train for Galletin, arriv-
ing there 9 p. m., next day 16th, we again
took conveyance, visit Mill Port, then pro-
ceed on to Adam-ondi-ahman. Dear sis-
ters could any one ever understand the feel-
ings that we experienced while visiting
these waste places of Zion; it is easier
imagined than expressed, at this place we
spent several hours meditating and pray-
ing, etc. Returning next morning, 17th,
6 a. m. we again take train for Cameron,
arriving 7-30 a. m. and at 8-30 a. m. we
take a very reluctant leave of our dear
friends; our party having dwindled away
until there were left but two of us; how-
ever we proceeded on our journey, taking
train 9-30 for Brekenridge, arriving there
11 a.m. again taking conveyance for
Haun’s Mill, but alas! every souvenir of
the sacred spot is almost extinct; a place
made sacred because of seventeen precious
lives, having been sacrificed there; then the
remains buried in a well. O, the anguish
of my soul while walking over that sacred
spot remembering the widows and father-
less, they have done all in their power to
obliterate every recognition of the place;
Mr. Stevenson having visited it seven
years ago, could tell by measurement; they
have ploughed the ground and planted corn
which stands from 15 to 20 feet high, so
that a stranger could not possibly tell where
the Black Smith Shop once stood; we, how-
ever, by seeking carefully, found cinders
mixed in with the soil, where the chimney
had been; the people in that neighborhood
do not like to speak on that subject, several
expressed themselves as its being a most
terrible affair and should rather never again
hear it mentioned; we returned to Breken-
ridge where we took evening train for
Montrose via Quincy, arriving. 6-30 a. m.
and reaching Montrose 10-45 a. m., 18th.
However long before arriving I discovered
(from the car windows) that once beautiful
city of Nauvoo, then so dear to the Saints;
on arriving we looked around Montrose;
there stood the steamboat “City of Nauvoo”
ready to ferry us over the Mississippi River
which of itself was quite an item to me.
	After landing we took conveyance, rode
around for some time looking at the city;
well, dear reader, accompany me for the
rest of the day if you can, more especially
in the afternoon while walking about;
many times when reading or hearing about
Nauvoo, have I wished in my heart that I
could visit that sacred spot of Earth, but
never for one moment did I indulge the
hope of really seeing it, but here I am
verily walking those very identical streets
that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
while in life walked so many, many times;
the emotions of my soul I never could
describe, was it a reality or was it a dream?


[Column 1]
Then on, being shown the spot in the river,
where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead,
with my associations in the house of the
Lord, the thoughts that crowded themselves
in my mind, were very many; I really
imagined that I could see him. We then
visited the cottage where the Prophet first
lived then the Mansion where the remains
were brought and visited by so many sor-
rowing Saints; read in the life of P. P.
Pratt page 370—71, for description of
feelings, but the grand sight for dwellings
on the river’s edge, were my admiration;
what grand ideas of the beautiful our
Prophet must have possessed; on visiting
the mansion I really discovered many
changes by what had been told me; on in-
quiry I found I was not mistaken, part
has been torn down, the Nauvoo house has
been built up some what; but of course
never completed, we found many kind
friends who were more than willing to
show and explain things to us; after wan-
dering about from place to place, we then
repaired to the Catholic Church, a very
creditable edifice, with a spire 150 feet high
which we ascended, having obtained per-
mission from the Priest, a very genial gen-
tleman, whom Mr. Stevenson had met on a
previous visit. The view from the spire is
simply grand, the church is built on the
corner across the street south of the block
where on the Temple stood; the Priest
occupies Apostle P. P. Pratt’s house, which
seems in very good condition; of the Tem-
ple there is not one stone left upon another,
there are stores built upon the block, also
vacant places sown in grass, there is
one large store built of the beautiful rock,
the rest, I was informed on inquiring, was
carried away piece by piece until it all dis-
appeared.
	I inquired the population and was in-
formed it numbered 1,300; imagine my
surprise, though I knew by appearances it
was not numerous, what I said “from 25 to
30,000 dwindled to 1,300, how do you ac-
count for this?’’ “Well,’’ the answer came,
“people cannot make a living, no rail-road,
no street cars, no enterprise,” but plenty of
vineyard and wine making,surely the bless-
ing of the Lord has not rested upon this
city since the expulsion of the Saints.
	Being fatigued beyond satisfaction we re-
paired to the Hotel, “The Oriental,” com-
fortable quarters, with a most kind, genial
landlady. Thursday morning 18th, after
a most comfortable night’s rest, feeling
quite refreshed, we prepared to take leave,
having obtained a nice piece of the Temple
rock from our kind friend and hostess and
with a kindly parting we then take a short
ride through the city, go to the upper land-
ing, take passage on the steamer, Ottum-
way Bell, had a very pleasant passage to
Keokuk arriving before noon; after din-
ner we took in as much of the city as pos-
sible; next morning we again took steamer
for Quincy, Ills. We again took in all we
could of that city, having visited the
Soldier’s Home which certainly is a won-
derful establishment; we were escorted
through, then taken to the Club House
where they prepare ten bushels of potatoes
at once, we saw them already peeled, every
thing else in proportion; an immense larder
well filled, we take the evening train for
Chicago, arriving next morning; Saturday
21st, we again took in sights in that grand
city, all day, retiring to our apartments at
night, next morning, Sunday 22nd, taking
leave 6 a. m. we proceed on to Elgin, ar-

[Column 2]
riving about 10 a. m., we proceeded to see our
most interesting subject, David Smith.
After considerable many obstructions being
removed, we come in his presence, after the
usual salutations and a little embarrass-
ment on his part, we had a very pleasant
conversation of about one hour; after which
by permission, he escorted us to his flower
beds which he assists in cultivating, spoke
very intelligently on the subject, wishing
to know if we should like some flowers of
his cultivating, which we very readily ac-
cepted and prized them very highly, hav-
ing brought them home; we had really a very
interesting time with him which I prize
beyond expression, having known him dur-
ing his sojourn in our city, I have always
entertained a very kindly feeling for him,
he is so refined in his manners and his
language is faultless,a perfect gentleman in
all his ways, may the Lord have mercy on
him and preserve him from all evil, we
took a very kindly leave of him.
	Being unable to return until late in the
evening we attended a Salvation Army
meeting, had an excellent time, then by
invitation took supper with a very spiritual
minded family, had a most interesting time
and as usual tried to sow all the good seed
we could; after an affectionate leave taking
and many wishes that we should stay over
night we returned to our apartment quite
late; next day, 23rd, we again took in what
we could of that great city among the rest,
having visited the Masonic Temple, that
wonderful structure, 21 stories high, the
view from the top is something wonderful,
taking in the beautiful Lake Michigan and
the country around for miles, we took the
evening train for home, sweet home, arriv-
ing Thursday evening 7 p. m., nothing un-
usual happening, with the exception of a
six hours delay, a few miles east of Thom-
son Springs caused by a breaking in the
cinder pan of the locomotive, feeling truly
thankful for a safe arrival and finding all
well at home.
	E. J. S.


WOMANS EXPONENT


UTAH W. S. A.
	AN executive meeting of the Utah Ter-
ritorial W. S. A. was held Oct 7th, 1895,
10 a. m. in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie presiding, prayer
by Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Sanpete Co.
The secretary read the call, the minutes of
the last Annual Executive session and let-
ters from Miss Susan B. Anthony. The
treasurer read her report naming the amount
of fees received from the counties, and the
amount disbursed. The reports of the
secretary and treasurer were accepted. Mrs.
Wells stated that as suffrage was virtually
obtained in Utah, she wished to hear the
sentiment of the members in respect to the
continuation of suffrage associations.
Several ladies responded. All favored the
existence of suffrage clubs in the future.
They thought it the duty of all to work for
the enfranchisement of women until universal
suffrage should be obtained.
	The motion by Dr. E. B. Ferguson to
maintain suffrage as a state Association was
unanimously adopted. The officers for the
ensuing year were nominated to be pre-
sented to the general convention convening
at 2. p. m. Adjournment.
	The Annual Convention of the Territorial
W. S. A. was held Oct. 7, 1895, at 2 p. m.
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Mrs. Em-


meline B. Wells presiding. Singing
“Columbia’s Daughters.” Prayer by
Bishop Adams of Iron Co. Singing,
“New America.” The election of officers
was as follows, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
President; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Vice
President at Large; Mrs. Electa Bullock,
Provo, Second Vice President; Mrs. Lucy
A. Clark, Davis, Third Vice President;
Mary A. White, of Beaver, Fourth Vice
President. Mrs. Margaret Caine, Record-
ing Secretary; Mrs. Augusta Grant, Corres-
ponding Secretary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
Treasurer. Phoebe Y. Beattie, Chairman
of the Executive Committee. Ruth M.
Fox, Elizabeth Price, Mary P. Silver,
Elizabeth McCune, Elizabeth McFarlane,
all of Salt Lake. Kate Hilliard, Weber;
Sarah A. Boyer, Springville, Utah; Alvira
L. Cox, Manti, Sanpete Co. Vina Tingy,
Juab; Elizabeth Wright, Cache; Joanna
Patten, Provo, Utah Co. Esther Francis,
Morgan, Morgan Co; Maria Miller Johnson,
Circleville, Piute Co. Eugenie Pierce,
Box Elder, Members of the Executive
Committee.
	The President called for reports from the
County Organizations, which were thus
represented, Mrs. M. A. White reported
Beaver Co. Organization; Mrs. Paulina
Lyman, Iron Co; Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
Davis; Mrs. Ruth M. Fox, Salt Lake; Mrs.
Hannah Lapish, American Fork of Utah
Co.; Mrs. Helena Madsen, Manti, of
Sanpete Co. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honor-
ary President, offered this resolution to the
Constitutional Convention, “I wish to
move that we in convention assembled ex-
press our grateful appreciation of the gen-
erous and earnest efforts of the noble men
constituting the majority of the Constitu-
tional Convention, and we pledge our best
efforts to help uplift the standard of City,
County and State politics.” Convention
adjourned.
			NELLIE M. LITTLE, Sec.


The citizens of Paris have named a
street after Maria Deraismes the able wo-
man suffrage advocate and leader in France
who died recently.
	The Racine, Wis, Times, has moved in-
to a new building of its own and made
great improvements in its outfit. Since
the death of the business manager, Mr.
Willis, the name of Olympia Brown Willis
appears as the head of the Publishing Co.
Mrs. Willis, known to our readers as Rev.
Olympia Brown, is a speaker of such ability
that it is a pity that she should be of
necessity tied down to business cares, al-
though she is making a success of her
present undertaking.—Ex.
	MRS. CHARLTON EDHOLM spoke on
“Traffic in Girls, and Florence Crittenden
Missions,” at the National Purity Congress
in Baltimore Md. Oct. 14th. Mrs. Edholm
asserted that of the two hundred and thirty
thousand erring girls in the country, over
half had been snared and bought and sold
into their lives of shame.
“Their average life is five years. Forty-
six thousand are carted out to the Potters’
Field every year. Over a hundred Ameri-
can homes have to be desolated every day
to recruit the ranks of shame. Twenty
million Christians can rescue 230,000 err-
ing girls, or surely the religion of the Lord 
Jesus is a failure.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WEDDING BELLS.

	[To my Children George Alfred and Elise.]

O, LOVED ones commencing Life’s journey,
	O’er an unknown dangerous way,
Pledge your hearts yet more firmly together 
	On this your nuptial day.
May the bright skies of love sweetly beaming,
	May the glories of Life’s golden sheen,
Throw gladness and joy in your pathway,
	And never a cloud come between.
May you ever be true and faithful 
	To the vows at the altar you’ve given;
May the trust and the faith of your fireside,
	Prove but a foretaste of Heaven.
But should the dark day of trial,
	Ever your pathway cross o’er,
Then clasp hands more firmly together,
	And the aid of our Father implore.
Could you think of a glorious landscape,
	Where never a shadow was seen?
Then where would the shading and color,
	Bring the light and the’dark between.
So were Life one continuous morning, 
	Or even a glorious noon-day,
’Twould be dull and uninteresting
	With no shadows cast over the way.
So the journey of Life is given,
	To climb to the hills of the blest,
Tho’ descending deep down in the valley
	Yet ends in the haven of rest.
So be true forever and ever,
	Pledge your lives both now and for aye;
Come sorrow, come trial, stand together,
	And wait for the glorious day. 
Let the incense of prayer oft ascending
	To our Father and God above,
Bear witness that He is remembered,
	By hearts that are warmed by His love.
Then will He bless you forever,
	And clasped in the arms of His love,
You will stand and never falter,
	’Till He calls you to dwell above.
O, then with the loved gone before us
	Your sisters and brother too,
May we drink of life everlasting 
	Where old things give place to the new.
	Your mother's prayer and blessing.
	LYDIA D. ALDER.
Salt Lake, Oct. 9, 1895.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

CARDSTON, CANADA.
	THE Relief Society of the Alberta Stake
of Zion convened in the meeting house
Oct. 5th, in a conference capacity, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Stake Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf presiding. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf. Singing, “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.” The stake
officers roll was called, showing eight of-
ficers present. Minutes of previous confer-
ence read and approved.
	President Sarah B. Daines was called up-
on to report the Cardston Society over which
she presides. She gave a very good report
and spoke of the good work the sisters are
doing, and of the unity that exists among
them, spoke briefly on the rearing of child-
ren and the necessity of teaching them
strict obedience.
	President M. L. Woolf rejoiced in meet-
ing with the sisters in this conference, “this
is a day of the general conference of our

[Column 2]
church where many of our people will be
gathered to listen to inspired words from
our leaders," hoped we might have a goodly
portion of the same spirit that they will en-
joy, spoke of the efficacy of holy consecrated
oil, and of the blessings the sisters have ob-
tained by its administration, also spoke on
the rearing of our children, if they are
taught to obey and respect their parents
they will obey the priesthood, asked the
blessings of the Lord upon all assembled.
	Counselor Sarah Layton reported the
Mountain View Society as working together
in unison, although in a scattered condition;
felt to do her duty and asked God to bless
all.
	Counselor Mary Lowe made some good
remarks, spoke on the duties of mother-
hood, felt that mothers should watch their
every word and action, and set worthy ex-
amples before our children.
	Sister Ann E. Leavitt said we have need
to be thankful for our comfortable surround-
ings and for the goodly portion of the
Spirit of God we enjoy, we need his spirit
at all times to assist us in bringing up our
children.
	Singing, “The Songs of the Heart.”
	President Catherine Pilling gave a favor-
able report of the Relief Society of Ætna,
“All are trying to do the best they can in
their scattered condition,” asked the bless-
ings of God upon all, that we may grow
and increase in good works.
	Sister Martha Archibald, Annie Baker
and Sarah Broadbent, each bore a faithful
testimony and made some interesting re-
marks.
	Sister Sarah Hinman said, “Our children
are given to us of the Lord, we should
strive to teach them those principles that
will lead them back into his presence and
we need his spirit to assist us in doing so.
	Sister Gregson bore her testimony and
related her experience in receiving the
Gospel.
	President M. Woolf said we should re-
frain from saying we cannot say any thing
to edify, as all had a testimony to bear and
could say a word of the hand-dealing of our
Father unto us, felt to bless Sister May.
	Sister R. May thanked the sisters for
their kind feelings, felt to be humble and
prayerful, desired the Spirit of God to as-
sist her at all times.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor Rhoda
Hinman.
	The afternoon meeting began at 2 p. m.
President M. L. Woolf presiding. Singing
“Lo, the mighty God appearing.” Prayer
by President Sarah B. Daines. Singing,
“Come O Thou King of Kings.” Coun-
selor Rhoda Hinman spoke on the life of
Joseph the Prophet and of the many ex-
cellent traits of his character, had heard
him speak many times and felt the power
he possessed, viewed the remains of those
two brothers pierced with the bullets of
their enemies; urged all to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord as it is the spirit of love,
peace and union.
	Sister Ella Nielson had been pleased with
what had been said, spoke on the subject of
marriage, mothers as well as daughters
should make it a matter of prayer, that by
doing so the right companion may be found
and avoid much sorrow.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Counselor Elizabeth Hammer felt that
we were blessed, knew nothing of the suf-
fering of the Saints in early days to estab-
lish this work; let us study the principles of

[Column 3]
the Gospel, and spend more time with our
children and keep them near to us that the
influence of Satan will not draw them from
us, let us all try to help each other.
	Miss Mamie Woolf had been greatly
edified in listening to the remarks made
knew the spirit of God was in our midst,
had a testimony of this work, knew it to
be the privilege of all who desire it, if we
will be humble and seek for it through
prayer and faith, spoke on the life of the
Savior.
	Miss Nellie Hinman felt that we should
appreciate our blessings, the Spirit of God
dwells with the pure in heart, let us think
more of our eternal welfare, and less of this
world’s goods.
	Stake Counselor John A. Woolf felt
pleased with the spirit of the conference;
the Lord has instituted these organizations
through His servants for our good some are
blind to their own interests and do not take
advantage of these things, we should teach
our children the consequences of bad habits,
and explain the Scriptures to them and
teach them that we have the privilege of
communing with angels, if we live for it,
prayed the spirit of their calling might
rest upon the officers and all present.
	Bishop Josiah Hammer said there had
been many good points touched upon, we
must take up a labor with our boys felt it
would be productive of good as there seemed
to be a spirit of carlessness among them, if
we are united in this we can check it, and
bring them up in the influence of the Gospel.
	President M. L. Woolf presented the
names of our honored and aged Sister Zina
D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society in all the church, and her Counselors
were presented, desired that we sustain
them with our faith and prayers, she then
presented the names of the president and
her counselors of the Alberta Stake. Said
we had been blessed to day by laying by
our labor and coming to meeting. Sister
Zina D. H. Young told us when she was
with us, she felt the same spirit here that
she felt in the temple of our God, and I feel
that we have enjoyed much of it to day,
we should seek the Lord early when our
mind and body is fresh and clear, should
give liberally of our tithes and offerings
that we may be rewarded accordingly, felt to
thank the brethren for meeting with us,
but sorry they were detained at the com-
mencement, prayed that the spirit of God
would continue with us. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice.” Conference was adjourned
for six months. Benediction by Elder
Samuel Layton.
JANE W. BATES, Sec.


MISS ALICE C. FLETCHER was elected
vice-president of the anthropological sec-
tion of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, and will be one of
its delegates to the International Congress
of American Scientists at Mexico, Oct. 15-
20.
	MAYOR SUTRO of San Francisco, has pre-
sented thirteen acres south of Golden Gate
Park to the University of California, as a
site for its new college buildings, the Board
of Regents having decided that a location
near the city is preferable to the University’s
present home at Berkeley. Mayor Sutro
will erect, on a lot adjoining the new site,
a home for his library of 300,000 volumes,
which he will present to the city, though it
may be placed under the control of the 
University.—Ex.


6d WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
t regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter: 

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
WOMEN SHOULD WORK FOR
STATEHOOD.

	THE election for Statehood and state of-
ficers in Utah is drawing near, and the
people are growing correspondingly anxious
on the momentous questions that are to be
decided by vote within a short time. Cer-
tainly the coming election is to be the most
important one in the history of the Ter-
ritory; and it is not to be wondered at that
there is some considerable enthusiasm
among both men and women on the subject.
	The question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is involved in the issue of the adop-
tion of the Constitution now very soon to
be voted upon, and it is only natural that
women who believe in equal suffrage should
be very greatly exercised as to the results
on their own account. It is more than
eight years since the women of Utah were
deprived of the franchise, which they had
enjoyed and exercised for seventeen years,
and which they appreciated as a blessing
and a privilege. The probability is that
they are soon to enter the new state full-
fledged citizens, politically equal in all re-
spects to men, and in view of this condi-
tion they have been, and are, preparing
themselves for the actual duties and
responsibilities of citizenship.
	The political meetings, primaries and
conventions, held in the interest of state-
hood, have all been educational in the
truest sense, and those who have attended
such places, and taken part in the proceed-
ings must necessarily realize what an ad-
vantage all this has been. It has been a
school of political science, and one can-
not help feeling that it will be productive of
good to those who have participated, if they
shall be wise and prudent, and careful in-
stead of becoming extremists. The wo-
men generally speaking who have been at-
tending political gatherings are not those
who have had opportunities to pursue the
studies of civil government, or political
economy in the school room or college, and
therefore the more need of this sort of
practical instruction.
	Because of the agitation of the equal suf-
frage matter in the Constitutional Conven-
tion many women attended that Convention
day after day, and heard the speeches and
listened to the proceedings, and became
somewhat familiar with the subjects pre-
sented and discussed there, and also in-
terested in these things to a certain extent;
some more than others, but all who had
thought earnestly of woman’s position be-
fore the law, must have been impressed

[Column 2]
with the ideas advanced there by the able
and eloquent speakers, who with so much
zeal and earnestness, championed the cause
of women, and endeavored to convince the
opponents of equal suffrage that it was only
just and right, that it should be embodied
in the Constitution itself instead of making
it a separate clause, or worse still, leaving it
to some future legislature in the new state.
All honor to those men who sought to ob-
tain justice for women in the new state of
Utah, and their names will be handed down
to posterity as benefactors of the race,
when woman’s true position shall make it
possible for equality in government to be
the rule and not the exception.
	But speaking advisedly it must be ap-
parent to every right minded person that
the agitation and interest in political mat-
ters which has grown out of the Conven-
tion because of the arguments pro and con
upon suffrage, has been the means of spread-
ing the knowledge of how governments
are formed and maintained, and an under-
standing of the laws which effect the well-
being of society in the city and county and
in the commonwealth.
	It cannot but be productive of good and
it is a hopeful outlook for any community
when women, the mothers and wives lay
hold of the grave questions of state, that
agitate the public mind and assist intel-
ligently to better the conditions of living
according to their best thought and high
sense of honor and honesty; when they
bring the tender conscience into the struggle
for justice and equality, and when through
careful investigation of the political situa-
tion they bring to bear that intuition and
remarkable foresight that characterizes in a
great degree most women, then men will
realize how beneficial is their help and won-
der how they could have been so long
neglectful of this new and potent element
in the management of the affairs of state.
	Every woman who loves Utah and
desires its prosperity should do her utmost
to urge men (who have the ballot) to vote
for statehood, and see to it as far as possible
that no vote shall be lost because of neglect
or indifference. Be as conscientious as
though the vote were your own and remem-
ber that one vote more or less might turn
the scale for or against.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, Oct. 3rd. The
morning session opened at 10 o’clock,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Her counselor, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, were present on the
stand, also other members of the Central
Board and a goodly number of presidents of
the Stake organizations of the Society from
a distance.  
	The congregation joined in singing,
“Redeemer of Israel,” and prayer was of-
fered by Elder George Benson from Idaho;
the usual exercises followed, and the presi-
dent made an opening address in which she
welcomed all present in her kind motherly
way, and expressed her pleasure in seeing
so many, some of whom had traveled long
distances to attend the conference. Re-
ports were given and other remarks made
by Brother Eyring of Mexico and sisters
Julia P. Lindsey, Mary S. Anderson, Em-
ma Jane Bennett and Lulu G. Richards,

[Column 2]
who represented Stakes in Idaho; Sisters
Adeline H. Barber, Lydia Rich, Mary
Harding, Jane S. Richards, Susan Grant,
Ann C. Woodbury and Brother George
Benson. The subjects treated upon were
the duties of the Relief Society, the home,
the mother, the training of the children,
charity, humility, prayer, union, and other
important matters, spiritual and temporal;
the storing of grain was spoken of by each
one who reported, and an unusual interest
seemed manifest in this respect.
	The president made closing remarks in
which she alluded to some of her early ex-
periences in the Church, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and of which she
spoke with intense feeling. The meeting
closed with the doxology; and benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
	The afternoon session was numerously
attended, notwithstanding the concert in the
Tabernacle. On the stand besides the gen-
eral officers of the society and several
presidents of Stake organizations, were
four of the Apostles, F. D. Richards, F.
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith and H. J.
Grant. Prayer was offered by Apostle Ly-
man.
	Reports were made by Sisters Olivia
Widerborg, Sage Jones, Artemisia Seeg-
miller, Mary Ann Hyde and Mary Bell
Heywood.
	Ann C. Bartlett, of Uintah, who had
recently visited England, Mary John, Ruth
Pack, Rhoda A. Lyman, Mary Pitchforth,
all of these sisters gave favorable accounts
of the several organizations where they
preside, and in fact the whole tenor of the
meeting proves the Relief Society to be in-
creasing in influence and in importance and
in prosperity throughout all the stakes of
Zion. After the report from the sisters
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker; he referred in the course of his re-
marks to the great change which had taken
place during the past few years in regard
to our position before the world, and spoke
particularly of the recent Irrigation Con-
gress in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and
the honor shown to President George Q.
Cannon and others of our people. Elder
H. J. Grant followed in a similar strain and
spoke of the prophecy of President Wood-
ruff in Brigham City that the time had come
for the Lord to favor Zion, etc.; thought
the Saints should be careful and not get
lifted up with pride.
	Elder F. M. Lyman in his remarks dwelt
specially upon the labors of the sisters in
the society and in the home, and expressed
the deep interest he had always taken in
the sisters’ organizations, and his apprecia-
tion of their efforts for good in various
directions.
	President George Q. Cannon who came
in late after having addressed the audience
in the Tabernacle, occupied a few minutes
in speaking to the sisters; giving wise
counsel and timely instructions; encourag-
ing them in the path of duty as Latter-day
Saints and as mothers, commending their
labors in the past, and especially the in-
tegrity and courage they had manifested
heretofore in times of trial and adverse cir-
cumstances; touched upon many subjects
pertaining to woman's advancement here
and elsewhere, and to the present political
conditions in Utah in view of statehood
and of equal suffrage in the near future.
In closing his remarks President Cannon
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters, mentioning especially the presiding
officers of the society.


Apostle F. D. Richards fully appreciated
the labors of the Relief Society and referred
to the excellent instructions given by the
brethren who had spoke; felt the sisters
needed the blessings and encouragement of
the presiding authorities in the various
stakes and wards, and gave the presidents
excellent advice about many things con-
nected with their organization.
	President Young made a few remarks
thanking the brethren for their presence.
President M. I. Horne presented the gen-
eral officers who were sustained by unani-
mous vote, and the conference was adjourn-
ed until next October. Singing, “Our
God We Raise to Thee." Dismissed with
prayer by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	E. B. Wells, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER FROM DR.
ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

[Concluded.]
	Aug. 26th Rollin obtained a carriage at
3 o’clock, and we went sight-seeing until
6 o’clock p. m. This was very entertain-
ing, bordering on the exquisite. We went
upon the much elevated plateau to the
hotel of the grand summer resort. We
drove through Grand Avenue, and on to
the “Garden of the Gods.” Which is
quite as grand as the name indicates.
	Aug. 11th. We all went to the Office of
the Automatic Telephone Co. I was
charmed with the simplicity, and apparent
perfection, of its work. At 11 o’clock I
took the car for Salida, arriving at 7 p. m.
Here I took the advantage of the lay over
privilege on my ticket.
	Aug. 20th. At 3 o’clock a. m. I paid
$6.20 for my ticket to Monte Vista Col.
and again checking baggage, was soon on
the way. With extra engine we were tug-
ging up hill through Royal Gorge; then
south to Alamosa: and then west to Monte
Vista.
	Aug. 21st. At 10 o’clock I was met
with horse and carriage, by my Nephew
Barnard Field Stevens, my twin brothers only
son, who was left at six months old with-
out a father. His wife Jennie, a short
time since returned from Denver having
passed through two very serious surgical
operations; and not yet entirely recovered.
No time was wasted in forming an acquaint-
ance, with wife, daughter and son. The
feeling was cordial, and mutual. No pains
was spared to make me feel, that I was
quite at home. I found Field a business
man. He has worked for years at harness-
making; and carries between four and five
thousand dollars worth of stock. He also
has a farm of two quarter sections, all un-
der cultivation, and calls himself worth
about eighteen thousand dollars. He
went to Monte Vista because of being sorely
afflicted with asthma, about nine years ago,
and is now a perfect picture of health. He
so loved the location, that he persuaded his
mother and step-father, to move there, from
the northern part of Iowa, and they also;
are in love with their southern home, with
their son, and wife, and one child near by.
	Aug 25th.—After dinner, according to
previous arrangements, we started for a
twenty miles drive, to the farm above men-
tioned. My sister-in-law Mary Boutwell,
and husband, Field and I, arrived there
just in time to pitch tent and have a camp
supper before dark. Straw was gathered
from a large stack and the bed made, and

[Column 2]
the table-cloth placed on it. Thus we
dined. How did I get through the night?
I divided my time between the bed inside,
and star-gazing outside the tent. The men
were lost somewhere in the stack.
	Monday Aug. 26th. Field said, “What
do you think of the crops? I never saw the
like. Here the fields of wheat, barley, and
oats, had grown far beyond my conception.
	Should I describe the scene as I saw it in
the field, the account would appear fabu-
lous; so I will say, come and borrow the
book of the description of the valley, and
its resources, and read for yourselves.
Many straws of grain are grown in a cluster
from one kernel. From a cluster I counted
from one straw, measuring, six feet and
one inch, and made an estimate, that in the
entire cluster, there, must be fifteen hun-
dred oats. Field said he expected his farm
this year, to yield a profit of from eighteen
to twenty five hundred dollars. The land
is sub-irrigated. That is the ditches are
made ten rods apart, and the water soaks
under. This is of but little trouble. The
hard pan below the soil, holds the water
which soaks up. The climate the year
round is mild. The altitude is 7,665 ft.
the thermometer registers very high, al-
though the heat is not so preceptible in the
sun within about thirty degrees as is ex-
pressed, when a cloud passes under the
sun, a sudden change is made. Hence there
is a great difference in this altitude between
sun and shade. The roads are made by
nature, not a stone for twenty miles, they
are sandy and packed with traveling over
them. Not a hollow, or hill did I see.
One teamster with two wagons and four
horses can haul seventy five hundred. I
had no need to brush dust from my cloth-
ing after a travel of forty miles, going one
way and returning another. The moisture
rises from the ground causing a dew that
lays the dust. As we were traveling for
miles, past these fields, covered with tall
heavy headed grain, they extended beyond
our vision. The valley has undoubtedly,
once been submerged, hence the level sandy
surface. The beautiful white cumulous
clouds, that seemed constantly piled up
along the horizon, surrounding the valley
on the tops of the low mountains, filled
me with such admiration, that I felt that it
could properly be called the “Valley of the
Gods.” I thought this would be a grand
place for a Temple, for the second coming
of the Son of Man, or for a garden of Eden.
	I must here leave the descriptive as the
view widens before me, and bring the
reader back to the house built and owned
by my nephew. A few days before I ar-
rived, it had been visited by lightning.
The mother and both children were shocked.
The lightning passing by the piano without
injuring it, visiting three rooms in its
course, cracked the plastering along the
way, and entering the bed-room, smashed
a large plated mirror into small pieces, then
stopped its destruction by splitting the fur-
ther post ot the bedstead. Did some un-
seen power hold me back, and then again,
hurry me on, preserving me from these
destructive elements? I answer yes.
Surely the destruction by the elements as
predicted in the 24th, Chapter of Mathew are
upon us.
	Before leaving Monte Vista, with my
Nephew, and two children, I participated in
a picnic sociable, in a grove three miles dis-
tant. He belongs to two lodges, or clubs.
This one admits ladies, and he joined it,

[Column 3]
that he might take with him his wife. The
main object of this society is to sustain a
fund, to care for the sick, and bury the
dead. This union reminded me of a cele-
bration in Salt Lake City July 24th, 1849.
Having been driven from our homes in a
body, our love, and interest, as a commun-
ity were one. So it seemed that there was
much harmony with them.
	Monday Sept. 2nd. I started for home,
and at the depot parted with five of my im-
mediate kindred. Why this parting? Be-
cause I do not live for selfish ends alone
I checked my baggage, and paid my fare of
six dollars and twenty cents, to Salida, I
arrived there late in the night. Now using
my excursion return ticket. I checked my
baggage for the entire journey. For three
hours another lady and I, had to wait, with
depot iron seat accommodations We
watched closely the clock, and after our car
was past due, without any call, all rushed
to the coming car. After traveling two
miles to the East, the conductor told us
that we were on the wrong car, and going
the wrong way. Soon we were placed on
the Pullman cars going West, and rode in
the Pullman Baggage Car to Leadville, sit-
ting on a couple of camp chairs. We were
the sole occupants of this empty car. Day-
light soon exposed our lonely situation.
We were then exchanged to our car, which
had stopped for breakfast; but our change was
not for the better. This was “Peach Day” at
the Junction; and fully one and a half car
loads of people were crowded into one.
	Space here will not admit of a description
of the road, as we were going to, and com-
ing, this side of Leadville. I don’t believe
the like can be equalled on the earth, for
magnitude, grandeur, and sublimity of
rock scenery. No one could imagine the
extent without seeing it. At times, the
car windows would not admit of our eyes
beholding the top of the towering cliffs, as
they seemed to reach the skies. We went
flying with great speed, and at one place we
suddenly came to a stand still. By looking
from the platform, I saw a very large boul-
der which had purposely, or accidentally
been, precipitated upon the track, from the
perpendicular heights above. Men with
their chisels and hammers, succeeded finally
in making room for us to pass. We now
struck the dreary clay colored soil of Color-
ado, and to add to our sombre mood, our
train was three hours behind. Thus I
landed in Salt Lake City at 2 o’clock Wed-
nesday morning Sept. 4th, 1895. Soon
after I arrived home I learned that the D.
R. G. Ry. train had been visited by a “hold
up.”
	I must here remember another
cousin, who is connected with the above,
now numbered with the dead, the daughter
of Addison and Louisa Barnes Pratt, and
wife of William McGary, who favored me
with her likeness, and family record the
latter being her last written words on earth.
Ellen Sophronia Pratt McGary b. Feb. 6th,
1832. died Aug. 9th, 1895, of fatty degen-
eration of the heart. After having been
confined to her bed two days, she quietly
passed away, at Garden Grove, Anahiem
Cal. She will be remembered as the eldest
daughter of her mother’s family. In com-
mon with the family, she endured all the
privations of a pioneer life, having arrived
in Salt Lake Valley, Utah, in the fall of
1848. We were much associated together
in those early days, because of her cheerful
spirit, she claimed a place in the leading


ranks of society. She went with her
father’s family on one mission to the Society
Islands in 1849, returning in 1852.
	Since arriving home I have taken up the
thread of life anew, and am continuing the
work of compiling the Stevens Genealogy.
All records of this family name should be
reported at once, to
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY,
	24 W. North Temple
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
	CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
		AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
		14, 1895.
				[Continued.]
	MISS ANTHONY, upon introducing Mrs.
Stansbury said:
	"We have with us a representative of
your neighboring State that is a little in ad-
vance of this last action of Utah in enfran-
chising women, and that is a representative
from Colorado where the women voted at
the last election of '94 and as you remem-
ber were enfranchised by a vote of seven
thousand majority at the election of '93,
Mrs. Stansbury, and I want to say to you
that she is no small part of the Editorial
staff of the Rocky Mountain News, and if
you behave yourselves you will probably
see yourselves reflected in the columns of
that paper. (applause.)
	REMARKS BY MRS. L. M. STANSBURY.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I am very glad that Aunt Susan has told
you that it is my business to write rather
than to talk. I am afraid in our state we
would think it was cruel to ask me to speak
after the speakers that you have listened to
here this morning, and yet it seems that we
from Colorado ought to thank you for the
help that Utah has given us. You have
heard a great deal about what we have to
go through in politics, you have heard
how utterly disreputable it is to go to the
primaries, caucuses and conventions. I
think from my experience that we have had
a great deal more disreputable time in secur-
ing the ballot than in using it, in the State
of Colorado. In the State of Colorado the
struggle has been going on ever since
General McCook suggested it. In the first
legislature I believe in 1876 when the Con-
stitutional Convention was held there, there
was a very hard struggle to get it put into
our Constitution, but our men were not so
well posted in regard to suffrage as they are
today. In 1882 there was a bill introduced
which met an untimely death as bills are
wont to do. There was a suffrage associa-
tion formed for the purpose of raising
money to help to carry their campaign. I
think there were only 8 charter members,
ours has about 180; we kept on working by
ourselves, I do not think there were more
than 20 or 30 of us in regular attendance
until the first legislature convened. After
that, my friends, we introduced a bill, we
were all very young and very green, we
did not know anything about a bill. They 
told us a constitutional amendment was
necessary but it took the lawyers forty-five
years to find that out. We found a young
man who had a constitutional amendment
which provided that no foreigner should
vote on his first papers. He said he was
willing to strike out the word "male"

[Column 2]
which would carry with it equal suffrage to
all women. So in spite of all their ridicule
if we did not know enough to get our bill
in we knew enough to get a rider, and horse
and rider went down together. When the
next legislature met we had a bill. There
were three more bills besides ours to give
suffrage to woman, and it was that more
than anything else that made us feel the
sentiment was general. I think that was
what gave us courage to go to the National
Woman's Association and ask for help. In
1893 the women of Utah held a silver meeting
a few weeks after. That was the first of
our suffrage campaign- We did not desig-
nate it a suffrage meeting, some women
talked silver and some talked suffrage.
Miss Shaw said that she did not know what
she would vote for. Now we are very un-
certain, we may be sorry which ever way
we vote but we do know that we will
vote for silver just as early, and just as fast
as the law will allow us. You have heard
a great deal about the silent influence of
women. Now in our state we have come
to the conclusion that the silent influence
is to talk and talk to a man until he will
give you anything on earth to make you
shut up. I really believe our men have
concluded that they would rather let us go
and vote as we pleased, than to talk and
labor and ask them to do this and that and
the other thing, because they are all willing
to please the ladies.
	I did not expect to speak at all here this
morning; if I had, I would have put on
some bigger sleeves. You understand that
Mr. Worth invented this style himself as he
thought that large sleeves would be neces-
sary to accommodate the muscles.
	Not having expected to speak to you at
all I will make way for some one who is
better capable of doing so. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—This was one of the
political candidates for State Superintendent.
She did not get quite votes enough to elect
her but nevertheless she was one of the
nominees of the democratic party, Mrs. C.
C. Bradford of Colorado. 
REMARKS BY MRS. C. C. BRADFORD
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
Just fancy coming as a representative of a
state where women vote, to a Territory
where women don't yet quite vote and be
presented as a defeated candidate. It is
perfectly dreadful. Nevertheless I was the
first woman ever nominated for a state of-
ficer in Colorado, and though I was beaten
they cannot take that honor from me.
	It seems to me that it is almost like call-
ing for a rush light when the full blaze of
the sun has been permitted to enter a room
to ask me to talk after Miss Anthony and
Miss Shaw have thrilled you as they have
done this morning, it is unkind to you, but
it is a very great kindness to me because
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw and the women
who have worked so long for Suffrage have
helped to put me on the throne and I am
here; (applause) and I am supremely
thankful to them for putting me there. I
like it a great deal better just as Miss Shaw
said than when I was behind the throne.
Another thing, so many people seem to
think that women are going to become so
terribly masculine and do so many terrible
things when they get into politics. I have
been in politics up to my eyes, and up to
my head, and I stumped the state of Col-
orado twice, once as an organizer of a politi-
cal party, and once as a candidate who did

[Column 3]
not get elected, and I have never met in all
the thousand miles I have traveled with
more reverence or respect than I did then,
when I was upon the throne. I never met
anything more cordial or more delightful
than the good fellowship of the men and
women who were glad to support the wo-
man who had helped to win suffrage for
them, and who chose to cast her lot with a
political party who absolutely hadn't the
ghost of a show. I do not believe in wo-
men seeking offices but I do believe in edu-
cational offices in every way, I believe that
the love and education of women are going
to show through some offices in the state
just as much as will that of the men.
	In regard to the differences of sex, that has
been so ably touched upon that I need not
refer to it except that being in politics will
make you more prominent than you ever
were before, because every woman who has
a child knows absolutely that she must take
an interest in the state—and I am so glad
as Miss Shaw says that you are coming in
as a state—I know you are and I believe
every hope will be confirmed, and I know
the faith and the hope of the Utah Women
and the faith and hope of the Colorado wo-
men for their sisters when this great and
glorious Territory becomes a State; and let
me thank God for the recognition of equal
suffrage here in Utah, and it will yet pre-
vail from clime to clime, from shore to
shore and from Canada to Mexico, wher-
ever the flag of the United States waves it
will be dear to our hearts for it is also a
Suffrage flag. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. C. E. ALLEN, PRESIDENT
	OE UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen—I am very glad
to be asked to assist in extending the wel-
come of Utah to our guests Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw. It is most fitting that at
this time the women of Utah should confer
with these distinguished leaders in all that
tends to the elevation of women. This is a
time when very many women here in Utah
are hesitating about what is best to be done.
There are many women who are influenced
by the old conservative feeling which for a
long time influenced me, that political life
was not best for women. It is but a few
years since I became associated with this
movement but for a long time I recognized
this great truth. In this respect my little
daughter far excels me. When she was
eight years old we were walking up Main
street and she said to me, "Mother, I don't
see why the women can't take some part in
politics," and this opinion she has adhered
to up to this time. I finally became con-
vinced that moral reform was impossible
until the ballot was granted to women.
	I used to feel that it would interfere with
home life, but I now see that the safety of
the home depends upon woman suffrage. I
read somewhere in an old law book that the
first of all Roman laws was the preserva-
tion of the home. What a revolution it
would work in our American politics if this
beautiful idea could be carried into effect
from the mother's standpoint. The life of
our very nation is threatened by the evil in-
fluences which threaten our homes, and
who shall speak concerning the young men
if not the home-makers. I believe if this
idea is carried into our politics it will make
of woman the power she should be. I
honor the women who are laboring for the
cause and all who are in sympathy with
them and I believe their noble deeds will be
recorded on the pages of history, that the


[Column 1]
reformation was far deeper than it appeared
on the outside, that their true work was in
restoring our political principle to its true
basis. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Last February we held
our first National Conference south of the
Mason and Dixon line and when the wo-
men from Alabama, Florida and Georgia
were introduced to the audience I was com-
pelled to say that the southern women were
truly born orators and speakers and I begin
to think the women of Utah are born ora-
tors and speakers as well as the southern
women.
	Mrs. Joannah Melton President of the
G. A. R. Relief Society was introduced by
Miss Anthony.
	REMARKS BY MRS. MELTON.
At the last moment your chairman has
invited me to say a word of welcome to our
guests Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw which
I feel very much pleased to do. Twenty-
six years ago; I am not going to say as long
as I live for I don’t want to tell you that,
but 26 years ago in the City of Lafayette.
Indiana, there were posters all over the city
that Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton would appear at the
Opera House. Of course the women of the
city were very much interested and we all
asked what kind of women they were.
Some of the gentlemen said “Now don’t
you go to that Opera House to hear those
women,’’ “Why, what is the reason?
Why should’nt we go and hear those wo-
men, are they not women?’’ “Yes, but
they are men women” (laughter) and I was
a little bit doubtful about going but I said
to myself: “Well, I won’t believe anything
until I see it and I am going to see what
kind of a woman a man woman is”
(laughter) So I went to the Opera House
and I saw women that I only wished that I
could be just like them, they were so
modest and motherly and kind and charm-
ing in their speeches and their conversation
that I was converted then and there before
I left the Opera House and I thought that
Woman’s Suffrage was just right. About
ten years ago I received a letter from Miss
Anthony telling me that she had heard of
me through some friends asking me to take
up the work in the Dakotas’. It seemed a
very hard thing to do in those two states
then because they were divided, but we
succeeded during the little while we worked.
	We were encouraged in our work but it
was just the same as it is here a great many
of the women had a great many arguments
against Woman Suffrage. Since coming
here six years ago I have watched the wo-
men here very closely and I see you have
some very able women and especially this
little woman (alluding to Mrs. Wells) seems
to be a bundle of executive power and she
has a good corps behind her and I knew the
suffrage question was safe in their hands.
I have done all the work I could but you
know the opposition which women are re-
ceiving at this present time and mostly
from the men. It was my privilege to be
invited to a home to meet some of our
Scotch delegates that were here at the Con-
vention, and there were five or six present
and several ladies, some with their wives.
One woman came in and said, “Well, I
suppose you gentlemen voted for us?” One
gentleman replied “You hit me hard!” and
I knew from that that he must have done it
and voted the other way. The lady re-
plied: “Oh, the women have shown to the

[Column 2]
world what they can do, they have shown
they have brains, and now I think it is time
that we have the ballot.” An old gentle-
man remarked to me: “that is my daughter,
she graduated at college, she is a mother
and now she says ‘I will show the people
what I can do.” That is just the argu-
ment that she used that now we have at-
tained this power we have got to the top
and we must not go backwards again. But
ladies, I think you have a grand future be-
fore you and with all the opposition to com-
bat you will succeed in this Territory.
	As Miss Shaw said, I have no patience with
women who do not think that the women
will do right in this Territory when given
the ballot, I have faith to know that the
women have heads and hearts and are just
as true and noble and kindly towards their
own sex as the men, and I don’t see why
the women of this Territory should not
vote just as intelligently for themselves as
a man. One gentleman in the Convention
said his wife was a Republican and he was
a Democrat. He said they would not want
to fight on the question. If I want to do
anything that my husband is opposed to I
don’t say anything I just keep quiet but I
just do my own way. (Laughter) Now I
tell you ladies and gentlemen that we are
just going to get there. Just look at that
ship of State as it comes in. Do you see
those Eastern States? Do you see the wo-
men bending down and looking up? They
are just as eager as the ones marching in
side by side. See the twin States of Dakota
they don’t come in equal they are just half.
Now we have the State of Colorado march-
in, men and women look alike. Sometimes
when we see them together we don’t know
which is the man and which is the woman.
See the State of Wyoming, the men and
women look just alike, and as Miss Shaw
said last night “We live together so many
years that we grow to look alike” and here
comes this beautiful young State of Utah.
Why it is dressed beautifully in white, com-
ing in with purity and glory and every-
thing behind it with men and women
equal. (Applause.)


WOMAN'S EXPONEN.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLVIII.
	“It is fortunate your coming over” said
Sidney one day to his aunt, “the lawyers
who are engaged upon your uncle’s affairs
were imperative about sending for you,
said it was impossible to do without such
an important witness as you would be, con-
cerning many things, for instance Lady
Walton’s death, though, as you know, I
was present, and really I believe you would
have had to come if possible; but we could
never have expected you to bring the
children, and I felt you would not leave
them. Now that you are here, the lawyers
will come down and settlements be made
much more easily than sending papers
across the water for signatures.”
	A story-teller cannot go into all details
of the lives of characters mentioned, nor
even the most important ones; and we
must leave Hilliard castle and its visitors to
the fancy of our readers for a short time,
while it is filled with lawyers and witnesses,
and distant relatives, who push their claims
for consideration. The final adjustment
was not reached without much trouble and
expense, and after long years of waiting,
and careful watching; for other complica-
tions arose through the sudden death by

[Column 2]
accident of young Lord Walton, the father
of Sir Edward’s grand-children. He was
thrown from his horse, and instantly
killed, while out hunting, not many weeks
after the arrival of Mrs. Harrison and fam-
ly, and as no will had been made, and the
children were left orphans the law had to
be appealed to; Mrs. Walton, not caring
to take any individual responsibility, though
she was not averse to doing her duty as
step-mother. Mrs. Harrison the nearest
relative urged her claim, and succeeded
after much tedious intercession in getting
it recognized.
	The climate of England, though native
to Major Harrison did not agree with him,
he had endured much hardship and fatigue
during the war in America, and almost im-
perceptibly his health began to fail. He
was loath to think so, and would not admit
it even to Sidney, who was the first to
notice the change, and to urge the need of
seeing a physician at once. The Major
would not listen to it, but argued he would
be all right as soon as he went aboard the
ship to return. Sidney did not dare tell
his aunt how alarmed he felt about his
uncle’s condition, and therefore she was
totally unprepared when the crisis came,
suddenly, without any previous warning.
Major Harrison spent much of his time
out of doors, on horseback, or reading and
wandering about under the grand old trees
in the magnificent grounds around the old-
fashioned dwelling. Sitting as usual, book
in hand, with head thrown back, after his
usual manner, one afternoon in the late
Autumn, one would have thought him
resting peacefully, and so no doubt he was;
’twas thus he was discovered by Sidney, who
had come out to call his uncle to dinner;
judge his amazement, and horror, to find
he had fallen asleep in death. In a few
seconds the whole household were gathered
round; a few rods away in the former home
of Dr. Bland, a young Doctor lived, who
came without a moment’s delay, a messen-
ger was dispatched in hot haste for another,
and meantime all the restoratives known to
science were used without effect. Discon-
solate will scarcely apply to the woman,
bereft as Mrs. Harrison was of one she held
dearer than her own life. No one ventured
even to try to comfort her; she was utterly
left alone; Sidney feared her mind would
give way, under such heavy pressure, yet
he dared not say more than the common-
place words which his profession as a min-
ster warranted. But he took charge of the,
children, just as he felt his aunt would
direct, were she sufficiently composed to
give advice in the matter. The great tree
had fallen, and Jane Harrison remembered
the dream and the warning.
	So many changes had come to Mrs. Har-
rison in a short period of time that it is
strange she could control her emotions, so
as to attend to the children after a few days,
and maintain the dignity of her position as
the only near relative of these orphaned
little ones. She was indeed a woman of
remarkable fortitude to bear up under such
an accumulation of trials and bereavements.
She was clearer-headed than any of the
lawyers and knew by intuition the best
course to take, and decided quietly and
without hesitation.
	“I shall remain here, at the castle, until
matters are properly adjusted” she said to
Sidney, some weeks after the terrible blow 
had fallen, “I am sure it would be my
uncle’s wish, and your uncle Robert would


[Column 1]
expect it of me too, and when my cousin’s
affairs are made right and the Walton mat-
ters fixed, so we may know what to expect
from that, I shall sail for America taking
with me all the children and nevermore re-
turn here, much as I love the green fields
of my native land.”
	‘‘And am I to be banished Aunt Jane
(Mrs. Harrison,”) said Sidney, in his most
sympathetic voice. “Have I no part nor
lot in this matter, may I not be a part of the
household still? Will you not need some
one to manage such large estates and teach
the boys, prepare them for college and ren-
der some assistance in the arduous labor of
guardianship; even though I may never
again pursue my calling in the ministry.”
	For a few minutes Mrs. Harrison was like
one bereft of her reason, she could not
speak, it was as if a tempest shook her
whole frame and Sidney chided himself in-
wardly for having spoken “Dear Aunt
Jane” he said, “let me stay with you, I will
give up all else for the children’s sake, I
will be a brother to you, now you are left so
lonely, do not shut me out of your life, you
must have need of some one in whom you
can place confidence, I am sure my uncle
would approve of it, and I should be most
happy to serve you, let us understand each
other, shall it be so?”
	Mrs. Harrison acquiesced almost without
words, but Sidney understood and remained
by her through all the days of trial and
final settlements. Sometimes she seemed
so crushed in spirit, it was like a cloud hid-
ing all light from view, all was darkness,
and had it not been for the extra exertion
she was compelled to make for the children’s
sake the consequences might have been
fatal to her reason, or her health, or both;
as it was, she nerved herself for the battle,
and fought it through bravely, never
shrinking though pierced to the heart’s core
often.
	Seldom has it fallen to the lot of one
woman to be left with so many dependent
little ones of different parentage, her own-
two children Conway and Clarice had
separate property rights, then Anna’s
children were heirs in the Hilliard estate
as well as the Walton property, and Clair’s
boy was Edward Hilliard, bearing the name
and inheriting the title of his grandfather.
	A curious complication in one family,
and what the future was to be, even Jane
Harrison with all her foresightedness could
not tell.
	After many weary months which
dragged slowly by notwithstanding the
press of business which occupied the entire
time of both Mrs. Harrison and Sidney, as
well as men learned in the law (and after
many small legacies to relatives far removed
had been settled upon) and gifts bestowed
upon old servants and retainers, the castle
and estates were leased, and as they could
not persuade Maitland’s widow to leave
England, they took an affectionate leave of
her and embarked once more for America.
How changed was everything on their
arrival; how different and how sad the
places seemed, where so much happiness
had been enjoyed. It was hard too to meet
the former friends and neighbors and re-
ceive their expressions of kindly, well-
meant sympathy, which opened anew the
fountains of grief, hard to control when
once aroused.
	Mrs. Harrison interested herself in every-
thing which concerned the children and
watched their progress as though they were
all her very own and they grew up together

[Column 2]
in the closest sympathy with each other.
Sidney Barrington was true to his promise,
he gave up his profession, but still preached
occasionally at funerals, or filled the pulpit
for any of his friends in the vicinity, when
either of them were necessarily absent.
Their life passed along quite smoothly for a
time, and Mrs. Harrison ceased to look for
any extraordinary event to happen. The
boys were ambitious in their studies, Con-
way inclining to medical pursuits, and
Edward Hilliard to music in which his
very soul delighted. Edward Walton was
not so pronounced in any one direction and
really caused his Aunt Jane more uneasi-
ness than the others. He was fond of
horses and of all sorts of out-door sports
and athletic games. The girls were taught
needlework in all its branches and such do-
mestic employments as seemed suited to
their position in life as plain Americans.
Not a word was ever said to them or any
allusion made to titles or estates in England.
	It was finally learned after much research
that the debts of honor most of them con-
tracted abroad had swallowed up the Wal-
ton property, so that Anna's children really
only had what they inherited from their
grandfather Hilliard, and that had been
divided, and subdivided among so many,
that it was not much to boast of, and from
year to year the amount became visibly less.
Mrs. Harrison cared little for the English
estates. Her interests and Sidney Barring-
ton’s were all with the people among whom
they dwelt, and they listened to the un-
favorable recitals that came by letter, from
the lessees of the Hilliard lands and tenantry
without remorse. In fact Mrs. Harrison
felt that if all were gone, the boys would
be less inclined to wander from her and
their home in the new world. She had
means sufficient by prudent management
for all, and she intended the boys should be
taught such industry and economy as would
help them to be self-supporting. She had
imbibed the ideas and habits of the plain
Puritan people and she realized that such
principles were productive of morality and
honesty. She regretted that Edward Wal-
ton showed a tendency to follow in his
father’s footsteps, and trusted to the dis-
ciplinarian methods of Sidney and other
teachers and professors to cure him of his
waywardness.
	The influence exerted by Mrs. Harrison
among all those associated with her in any
way was very elevating, she sought to
make all around her self-respecting and
was a great favorite with high and low not
withstanding her exclusiveness.
	After a regular course of study Conway
feeling it imperative to thoroughly prepare
for his life-work decided that he must take
a university course abroad; his integrity to
his home and the patriotism he had mani-
fested, convinced his mother it would be
safe to trust him, and in fact she desired he
should be thoroughly equipped for his
chosen profession. It was an event in the
calm, quiet life of the staid New England
household, and to Jane Harrison it was like
parting with a part of her life, Sidney was
to accompany him over and make some in-
vestigations concerning property affairs and
cases involved. At the last moment al-
most Edward Walton became possessed
with the idea of going with them, and
reason as his aunt would she could not
change his mind. He was old enough to
declare for himself, he wanted to see his
stepmother, he had heard more than was

[Column 3]
prudent of his father’s career, and naturally
longed to know more. At last unwillingly
Mrs. Harrison consented and charging Sid-
ney to watch over Edward and bring him
back when he returned in the fall and with
tears and sorrowful emotions, they set sail
once more for England.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE STATE TABLE. 
To whom it may concern:
The state table that is being constructed
by Mr. J. R. Wilson—the table upon which
the first Governor of the state of Utah is to
sign the first bill passed by the first State
Legislature—is nearing completion. There
will be a place prepared in the table where-
in will be sealed up a copy of the Constitu-
tion of the State of Utah; and I also desire
autographs from many of the citizens of the
state of Utah, especially of all those nomi-
nated on the State ticket, including the
members of both houses of the Legislature
on the Populist, Republican and Democrat-
ic tickets. These autographs will receive a
place in the table; and all persons who so
desire will please send them to my address:
John R. Wilson, Salt Lake City. As it is
impossible for me to call on each one in
person I send this request and hope it will
be favorably considered by all concerned.
The card should contain the name, whem
born and where, and the official position
now held or having been held.
Respectfully,
John R. Wilson.


Ellis R. Shipp, M.D.
Practitioner and Instructor in
OBSTETRICS & NURSING.
	Her next term will begin October 2l, 1895,
at her office, 18 Main Street, with greatly im-
proved facilities for instruction in this impor-
tant branch of education. Special terms given
to societies sending students.
	For full particulars inquire personally or by
letter to ELLIS R. SHIPP, 18 Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K. THOMAS

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, specialist in eye and
ear and midwifery, office, Room, 226, Con-
stitution Building, Main street, Salt Lake
City, commences class in midwifery October
9, 1895. Write for particulars.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 44 S. MAIN STREET
Opp. Zion’s Co-op. Mer. Inst’n.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
_________________________________________________________________
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
_________________________________________________________________
VOL. 24.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER I, AND 15, 1895.		No. 11-12.


CONTENTS:
In Rural Englnnd—A Story. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. R. S. Report—
Laura J. M. Petersen 	Colorado Woman’s Greet-
ing—Theodosia G. Ammons. Convention N. A.
W. S. A. Notes And News. Miscellaneous.
Honor To a Noted Woman—Secretary W. S. A.
Farmington. Mrs. Emma Bull. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—The New State. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. Forty Years Married. Eugene Field.
	POETRY:—We Are The Music-Makers—A. O. S.
“For And In Behalf.”


WE ARE THE MUSIC MAKERS.

WE are the music-makers,
	And we are the dreamers of dreams,
Wandering by lone sea-breakers, 
	And sitting by desolate streams;
World-losers and world-forsakers, 
	On whom the pale moon gleams;
Yet we are the movers and shakers
	Of the world forever, it seems.

With wonderful deathless ditties
We build at the world’s great cities,
	And out of a fabulous story
	We fashion an empire’s glory:
One man with a dream, at pleasure,
	Shall go forth and conquer a crown;
And three with a new song’s measure
	Can trample a kingdom down.

We, in the ages lying
	In the buried past of the earth,
Build Nineveh with our singing,
	And Babel itself in our mirth;
And o’erthrow them with prophesying 
	To the Old and the New World’s worth;
For each age is a dream that is dying,
	Or one that is coming to birth.

A breath of our inspiration 
Is the life of each generation;
	A wondrous thing of our dreaming,
	Unearthly, impossible seeming—
The soldier, the king and the peasant
	Are working together in one,
Till our dream shall become their present,
	And their work in the world be done.

They had no vision amazing
Of the goodly house they are raising;
	They had no divine foreshowing
	Of the land to which they are going:
But on one man’s soul it hath broken,
	A light that doth not depart;
And his look, or a word he hath spoken,
	Wrought flame in another man’s heart.

And therefore to-day is thrilling
With a past day’s late fulfilling;
	And the multitudes are enlisted
	In the faith that their fathers resisted,
And, scorning the dream of to-morrow,
	Are bringing to pass, as they may,
In the world, for its joy or its sorrow,
	The dream that was scorned yesterday.

But we, with our dreaming and singing,
	Ceaseless and sorrowless we!
The glory about us clinging
	Of the glorious futures we see,
Our souls with high music ringing:
	O men! it must ever be
That we dwell in our dreaming and singing,
	A little apart from ye;

[COLUMN 2]
For we are afar with the dawning
	And the suns that are not yet high, 
And out of the infinite morning
	Intrepid you hear us cry—
How, spite of your human scorning,
	Once more God’s future draws nigh,
And already goes forth the warning
	That ye of the past must die.

Great hail! we cry to the comers
	From the dazzling unknown shore;
Bring us hither your sun and your summers,
	And renew our world as of yore;
You shall teach us your song’s new numbers;
	And things that we dreamed not before:
Yea, in spite of a dreamer who slumbers,
	And a singer who sings no more.
							A. O. S.


[column 1]
		IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XLIX.
	AS might be expected Conway Bland
passed his examinations, difficult though
they were, for his training had been
thorough, and entered the University with
good expectations of success while Sidney
Barrington was still in England, looking
after legal matters, and trying to induce
young Walton to return with him to
America, or to enter one of the colleges and
fit himself for some sort of life-work; but
he had a decided preference for sporting, and
being handsome and fascinating, and meet-
ing with men who were of like propensities,
he was won over by them to accept invita-
tions, to go here and there, and would not
listen to Mr. Barrington’s persuasions, not
even though his sister and aunt, plead with
him by letter, not to remain longer away
from them. His step-mother was anxious
too that he should leave England, she
dreaded the responsibility, and also the ex-
pense; she had found him rather un-
scrupulous, and knowing the kind of com-
pany he was keeping, she added her en-
treaties to those of Sidney Barrington, to
induce him to break his engagements and go
to his own kindred. All to no purpose, he
determined to take his own course.
	Sidney dreaded to go without him, feel-
ing sure Mrs. Harrison would be disap-
pointed, but he was compelled to do so
nevertheless, as his stay had already been
greatly prolonged. Mrs. Harrison grieved
over Edward deeply, and sometimes felt she
must go to him, and see what her presence
would do. He seldom answered the loving
and tender letters from home, so absorbed
was he in the gaieties of the fashionable
world he found ready to welcome him.
Through the influence of unprincipled men
he obtained possession of much of the
property, which rightfully belonged to his
cousin Edward Hilliard, and afterwards
managed to defraud them all sufficiently to
live at the old castle, and later on, years
after, at the death of Lady Walton, he came
into possession of Walton Hall, so that he
was master of two estates, (such as they
were.) He kept up gay bachelor’s apart-
ments, and was not given to spending
money in any legitimate way.

[column 2]
	After a few years Conway graduated-
with the highest honors and sailed for home;
he did not even make an attempt to see
Edward Walton, nor did he know of his
disgraceful doings.
	Conway’s return was hailed with joy by
all the friends of the family, and the mother
though happy and proud of the handsome
and accomplished young Doctor, from
whom she had been so long separated, yet
could not but treat him still as her boy, and
soon found an opportunity to inquire what
he meant to do in the future.
	“Why, mother I intend to practice my
profession right here at home, among those
who have always known me, and who,
many of them, knew my father’s reputation,
by tradition, at least, and in due time I
shall marry, with your consent, my cousin
Anna, whom I have loved all my life, and
who returns my affection after her own shy
fashion, but does not know it is more than
cousinly.’’
	“My boy, how happy it makes me to
know you are satisfied with your surround-
ings here, and are content to build up a
practice where you can do so much good in
an unostentatious way; so like your father,
and I know he would approve your course;
but for Anna I cannot agree with you—it
seems to me you are over-confident—Anna
knows nothing whatever of men, she is en-
tirely unsophisticated, and you, my boy,
have been out in the great world, mingling
with men of science and skilled in all sorts
of arts; we hardly know, as yet, how
suitable you would be for a husband—and
Anna is innocence itself, beware how you
approach her upon any matter of the heart,
she could not understand you, you must be
as discreet with her, and as cautious, as you
would be in handling the most delicate and
sharpest instrument known in your profes-
sion.”
	“Do you, my own mother, into whose
bosom I have poured all my childish sor-
rows and disappointments, do you doubt
my honor, or my discretion? You of all
women in the world, who have had such an
extraordinary experience with men, and
been their adviser, their arbitrator in a way,
think of Sir Edward (my great grand-
uncle,) no other woman, I have been told,
could do what you were able to—and to no
other woman did he open his heart, as he
did to you—when you were only a girl.”
	“To be sure Conway, my dear boy, I
have had great experience, mostly with
men, I know less of women, not having
been brought into close association with
many, except my cousin Anna, who was
not like other women, I’m quite sure of
that—but what can that have to do with
you, and Anna; you must wait—you must
not mention the subject of love or marriage
to her, establish yourself in your practice
and see what follows; believe me, at my
age, I know best what is right and proper.”
	Conway Bland was never so dissatisfied
before, he had come home with his mind
fully made up to ask his cousin Anna to be
his wife, and had not dreamed of any
hindrance, and especially from his mother;
she was not his own cousin, he had thought


[Column 1]
the matter all out—his mother could not
object on the plea of relationship, the one
dread he had while away was, that Edward
Hilliard should be in love with her—as he
fancied every man must be, who knew her,
but soon after coming home, he had noticed
them, and felt satisfied they were only like
cousins—while he could scarcely rest out of
her sight,and he believed she felt as he did,
for her face would light up momentarily
when he came near.
	And sure enough it was true, she scarcely
knew it, and yet she felt he was all the
world to her—she almost ceased to think of
her brother, whom she had loved with all
a sister’s pride. Mrs. Harrison had taken
great care and pains with Anna as well as
her own daughter Clarice and the two
girls were beautiful and gifted, like and un-
like, in many respects. They had been
watched and guarded almost too much,
their education had been altogether under
Mrs. Harrison’s supervision, and Sidney
Barrington had instilled such religious
principles as were calculated to help them
bear life’s ills with patience and resignation,
if they were not too many, and too terrible
In fact they were well equipped for young
ladies of that period, with prospective for-
tunes. Clarice like her father possessed
wonderful conversational qualities, Anna
was more reticent, neither of them had the
great strength of character of Jane Con-
way—but both were dazzlingly beautiful,
and seemingly unaware of the fact.
Clarice though much younger scarcely
seemed so, having developed womanly
traits earlier, and being what is termed
old-fashioned’, in her ways and manner,
it was she who first discovered Anna’s
secret.
	“Mamma,’’she said, in her childish way,
one day when Anna and Conway were out
riding, “Anna is in love with my brother
and if you don’t approve you’d better look
into it—I’ve seen it ever since he came
home, she has no thought for any one but
him, and she is growing very distant with
me, I wish you would speak to her about it,
I’m quite sure its time.”
	Mrs. Harrison looked surprised and in-
quired, “since you are so wise, my dear,
and can see so clearly into people’s affairs,
what do you propose your mamma should
say to these young people? Am I to go
and accuse them of being in love on your
authority?”
	“If you don’t speak I shall tell my
brother it is time he spoke to you about his
doings with Anna—I should not be allowed
to go here and there and everywhere with
a young man as she does, Conway himself
would soon say it was not proper, why they
sit every morning in the drawing-room,
when you are busy, and actually doing
nothing, Anna never reads now, she never
goes out unless he is with her.” And at
the moment here they came and Clarice who
was too impulsive to be discreet burst out
with, “Dr. Conway I’ve been telling
mamma about you and Anna and that she
ought to separate you two for reasons,
and—” “And for what reasons?” Inter-
rupted her brother, while Anna almost
fainting with alarm, sank down on
a chair and burst into tears. “And now
little sister as you seem to know what ought
to be, I’ll make a clean breast of it, and
tell you my mind, I am in love with Anna,
and have told her so this very morning,
and only death can divide us. Now what
are you going to say about that, we came

[Column 2]
in to ask, mamma’s consent, and yours
later on, but as you have taken the affair
up and pronounced judgment—we will
listen to you first, if mamma is willing.”
	Taken completely by surprise Mrs. Har-
rison was unable to speak for a few
moments, but Clarice did not lose her
presence of mind for a minute, and with
her characteristic, girlish assurance and free-
dom of speech, opened her mind much to
Anna’s discomfort, “Well Dr. Conway since
you are in love with Anna its all right,
what I was afraid of was, that you were
not, and that she was bestowing her af-
fections upon one, who loved his profession
more than he loved a beautiful woman.”
It was vain for the Doctor to try to restrain
Clarice, she knew more about love or
fancied she did than either one of the family;
and her mother was so surprised, both at
the torrent of feeling displayed by her little
daughter, and the sudden denoument of
her son and Anna Walton, that she was
speechless.
	Her cousin Anna's escapades flashed into
her mind and she recalled the impetuosity
of her disposition, and though little Anna
had never betrayed such violent emotions,
yet her aunt inwardly trembled, and con-
cluded the best course would be to allow
these young people to have their own way.
Very little was said except consent given,
and preparations were soon in progress for
the proposed marriage. Everything was
done in a simple way, though Mrs. Har-
rison knew how to make the best of all
their belongings, and the bride was not
lacking in elegant laces, pearls and jewelry,
left by her mother, which had been put
away carefully until Anna could appreciate
them. Clarice interested herself even more
than the bride in the wedding apparel, and
the young Doctor and his cousin Edward
as well as uncle Sidney, busied themselves
with the new dwelling place.
	During the weeks previous to the wed-
ding when all the household were very
busy, or at night when others were asleep,
Mrs. Harrison reasoned with herself on the
matter, and queried whether she had been
the true mother to these two young girls,
whose lives and ways were a perfect
mystery to her, though associated with
them daily from their infancy; in her cousin
Anna’s case the French maids and gover-
nesses had been blamed, Sir. Edward’s
neglect of his daughter had been a factor
considered in her waywardness, she had
grown up under peculiar circumstances and
influences, but where was the lack in the
case of Anna Walton? And was it not
likely that Clarice might also fall desperate-
ly in love, even now her affections might
unconsciously be straying from her own
mother, and Mrs. Harrison shuddered as
she reflected what that would mean.
	“Afterall I do not understand women,
nor the potent power of love in the hearts
of the young, I blamed uncle Edward for
not knowing womens’ natures better and
here am I, at my time of life a woman too
who has made a study of the subject, and
find myself outwitted by my own child-
ren;” ’twas thus Mrs. Harrison soliloquized,
and there was no one to whom she could
look for sympathy or advice. Yes there
was Sidney, but he could not know any-
thing of young people’s affairs especially
women, and she thought of his barren life,
and in her heart she pitied his loneliness,
how was it she had never thought of it be-
fore, she said to herself, “he has given his

[Column 3]
life to help others, mine, my loved ones,”
she repeated aloud, “unselfishly without,
hope of reward what grandeur of senti-
ment,” and she began to feel somewhat of
a culprit to have received so much at his
hands, and made no return. No she would
not trouble him with her feelings, she
would be more watchful now of Clarice,
and of Edward who was as refined and
delicate as a girl,and who inclined to moods,
musical and gay at times, despondent and
melancholy by fits and starts.
	The marriage of Conway Bland and
Anna Walton was duly solemnized in the 
Church near by, Sidney Barrington
officiating in the simple orthodox
ceremony. It was very sad for Mrs.
Harrison, but she bore up bravely and
only the few intimate friends who witnessed
the ceremony were bidden to the feast which
had been prepared. How unlike the
elaborate wedding of Anna’s mother; there
was no wedding journey, for these people
conformed to the Puritan ways and
methods they went quietly to their own
home and passed their honey-moon in visit-
ing the sick and comforting with gentle
words and glad hearts, and with such
delicacies as were available, the afflicted
ones who felt their presence almost a bene-
diction. But while their lives swept on
peacefully, Mrs. Harrison was tortured
with anxiety and misgivings. Clarice was
wilful and outspoken, singularly gifted too
in some respects, and always longing for
the unattainable; every now and then her
mother was obliged to succumb to some
ridiculous whim, or fancy; and each time
she resolved to be stronger in the future;
she who had controlled the obstinate
Baronet, could not cope with her own
daughter, do what she would.
	It is said truly there are none so blind as
those who will not see, and though a serious
love affair was going on in her home, Mrs.
Harrison was ignorant of the fact. Sidney
Barrington wasin the confidence of Edward
Hilliard and the boy opened his heart to
the minister who had been his tutor for so
many years. “You know I’m alone in the
world” he said, “for though Aunt Jane is
like a mother to me in one sense, yet she is
not my mother, nor do I know the true
meaning of either father or mother, some-
times I feel I must go away where I shall
not trouble anyone, and brood over my sor-
rows, and yet uncle Sidney I cannot bring
myself to say farewell to Clarice. I am
sure her mother will never consent to our
union and I have not even dared to tell her
of my love; I saw how Aunt Jane grieved
when Conway and Anna were married, she
has never been herself since that time, she
goes about like one in a dream, tell me
uncle Sidney, what shall I do?”
	Thus appealed to, Sidney Barrington
could not but sympathize with his dearest
pupil, for indeed he was, and he promised
to consider the matter, “but,” he added,
“never run away, it is only the weakest
men who do that, ‘faint heart never won
fair lady.” And Edward promised to wait
awhile until his uncle should make up his
mind what was best. Ere he turned to go,
for they were out under the great elms,
he said inadvertently, “uncle Sidney were
you ever in love and have you been disap-
pointed?” No one had ever put such a
question to the minister before and he
winced under such sharp questioning, and
Edward, noticing his reluctance, said, “O,
never mind, if you do not care to tell me,


only I thought perhaps it might help me
to know how you were cured.” And Ed-
ward walked away, leaving his uncle pac-
ing to and fro under the elms. He called
him back ere he reached the doorway, and
said, “I’ll tell you a story, my boy, it may
help you, it may give you courage.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


“FOR, AND IN BEHALF.”

THE millions now behind the vail,
	In bondage, tears and grief,
Are waiting for these blessed words,
	Of comfort and relief:
The words are truth and surety,
	They mean no broken staff—
They’re words of joyous liberty!
	Yea, “For, and in behalf.”

Elijah’s power to bind and seal,
	By Heaven’s decree gone forth—
The father’s hearts are turning to
	Their children now on earth.
And praying them with tearful eyes,
	To strike their fetters off,
And listening eager for the words;
	Yea, “For and in behalf.”

They’re waiting, anxious, waiting
	For kindred here on earth,
To give them in a Temple’s font
	A new baptismal birth.
And shall we keep them waiting,
	Thro’ long and dreary years?
Not hear their earnest pleading;
	Their piteous prayers and tears?

They know that Christ Jehovah
	Hath crushed the serpent’s head,
And wrought out full redemption,
	For living and the dead;
And shall we keep them waiting
	Like helpless, wretched waif,
And supplicating for the words—
	“For you, and in behalf?”

Oh, awful thouht! when we go hence
	Their work we’ve left undone—
Pangs of remorse will sting our hearts—
	The torment be our own.
We cannot look them in the face,
	For their reproachful looks,
Will point to blanks, we might have filled,
	In Temple record books.

But when we’ve done their work complete
	Sanctioned by God above;
They’ll fold us in a long embrace,
	Shed gushing tears of love.
What rapture then will fill the soul
	No mortal tongue can tell—
The welcome plaudit from our Lord,
	Well done, well done! tis well?”
						Millennial Star.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 19th, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Continued by singing, “Come let us re-
joice in the day of Salvation.” Counselor
Stevenson read a note from President Horne
stating that she had a cold and could not
meet with us to day. Counselor E. Steven-
son said she was sorry that we had not our
Secretary present today. Sister L. D.
Alder was called upon to act in this capacity.
	Counselor Stevenson said, “I hope we
continue to meet even though we are few in
number. But we have more than two or
three here and I know we meet here in

[COLUMN 2]
“His name.” Since I last met with you
here I have been visiting the waste places of
Zion. Spoke of the dedication of a meet-
ing house in St. John’s, in Kansas. Visited
Independence, Mo., where is situated the
Temple block, called upon Mr. Hill, who
had lost even his home to save the Temple
block from the Josephites. These denom-
inations say we all belong to the same
church but we differ. The Temple lot
seems to be kept sacred, only a Hedrikite
Church on it. It has not been tilled since
the corner stone was laid. Visited Adam-
on-di-ahmon, the rock shows where fire has
been on it and there it stands through all
the ages. Spoke of Haun’s Mill, and the
seventeen lives that were sacrificed there.
	Then we went on to Nauvoo, I was
astonished to see a high church steeple
there, I thought of many things as I
walked its streets; viewed the spot where
the prophet stood and baptized for the dead
in the river. There is a grave stone on
Sister Emma’s grave,and Joseph’s children,
but no others. Visited Quincy, Keokuk
and many other places where the Saints
had resided. Also went to Elgin to visit
David Smith. I met Alexander and David
when they were here, when David was a
boy, he is fine looking, and gentlemanly in
his manners. He is much better but is not
recovered. He said he passed his time in
reading, and playing on the organ, he also
cultivated some flowers. He showed us
the flowers himself and showed us a bridge
which he had assisted in building, he gave
me a little rock out of this bridge. He was
so thankful for our call and visit. He sent
his kind regards to all his friends and rela-
tives in Zion.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased to hear
Sister Stevenson’s account of her trip. “It
has made me think of other days, and many
happy times I passed at the Prophet’s house.
I had my endowments with my husband,
when the prophet was living. Joseph said
many things which I remember yet. He
told us our Temple suits should be our
burial suits. I also was at the Relief
Society meeting when he told us he would
not be with us long. I wish the cloud
would pass off the mind of David. Sister
Stevenson has given me some of the flowers
David gave her, and has promised to send
me a piece of the stone where my husband
knelt when he was ordained one of the
Twelve Apostles. I pray the Lord to help
us to come to these meetings, also to do
better, and leave no stone unturned in do-
ing our duty.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, said she was
pleased to be here, having been gone three
months. Spoke of the ship on which she
crossed the sea. Said the ministers and the
better class of people who do not want to
spend their money,but are going for instruc-
tion, go in second cabin. The motion was
not as much as on the railroad. So none need
fear being sea-sick. Then in the steerage
one can go for sixteen dollars, so none need
go without their records. Spoke of London,
over 5,600,000 in numbers. They told us
if we walked nine miles a day, it would
take ten years to go over London. Met
people who knew nothing of Mormonism.
All they had heard was that Brigham
Young had five hundred wives. The
Americans we met really seemed more
prejudiced than the foreigners. Spoke of
two of our young Elders. holding a meet-
ing in Regent Park, felt proud of their
preaching. Visited Scotland, to try to get
her mother’s genealogical records; des-

[COLUMN 3]
cribed the place,only 1 £. to stay and search
the records for one month. “Pray for the
Missionaries who are proclaiming the Gos-
pel, that the Lord may sustain them.”
	Sister Phelps, thought we should remem-
ber the missionaries. Desired to live hum-
ble and faithful,also said other good things.
	A Sister in the congregation said she left
London many years ago, and she came
here for the Gospel’s sake and knew it was
true.
	Sisters’sang, “Praise to the man,” &c.
	Sister J. C. Howe, said she did not feel
like speaking, but enjoyed listening to
Sisters Stevenson and Hyde. Bore
testimony that this was the work of God,
made other encouraging remarks, urging
the sisters to continue in diligence.
	Sister Silver, bore her testimony, and
spoke of some of her early days in London,
exhorted the sisters to live their religion.
	Closing remarks by Sister Stevenson.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“We thank thee O, God for a Prophet.”
Benediction, Sister L. D. Alder.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


R. S. REPORTS.

		SAN LUIS STAKE.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	MINUTES of the Semi-annual Conference
of the Relief Society of the San Luis
Stake, held, September 15, 1895.  Present
on the stand were President Mortenson
and Counselors, Magdalene Funk and
Jane Crowther, and many of the leading
brethren and sisters of the stake. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer.
	Cornelia Mortensen made a few opening
remarks, was pleased to meet with the
saints on such a beautiful morning, prayed
for the spirit of God to direct us.
	Verbal reports were then called for,
which were responded to cheerfully. The
spirit of the speakers in general was good,
and the storing of grain, was made the im-
portant subject. The general and local
officers were presented and unanimously
sustained; after which a letter from Zina
D. H. Young was read. Before closing,
Bishop S. C. Berthelsen made a motion,
that the brethren sustain the sisters with
their means as well as by their faith, which 
was unanimously carried.
	Conference closed by singing and bene-
diction.
	LAURA J. M. PETERSEN, Sec. pro-tem.


RECENT calculations show that if all the
saloons in Chicago, both licensed and un-
licened, were placed side by side on one
street, allowing to each about the room oc-
cupied by the average store, there would be
a continuous line some fifteen miles long.

	DR. SARAH HACKETT STEVENSON was
the editor of the woman’s edition of the
Chicago Evening Journal of Nov. 1st, per-
haps the most elaborate and successful
complication of newspaper work by women
ever issued.

	ONE hundred thousand men and twenty-
five thousand women in round numbers
voted for woman suffrage in Massachusetts
on the 5th day of November. This fact
will give a standing and an impetus to the
cause in this State which it never had be-
fore. We shall go before the next Legisla-
ture with an added claim to favorable con-
sideration.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
		vertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
		one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
		t regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW STATE.

	THE election is over and the votes are
being counted by the Utah Commission
and the positive results will soon be given
to the public; it is already well known
that there is a large majority for statehood,
and that means a large majority for equal
suffrage. This is a matter of rejoicing for
all women everywhere who have the ad-
vancement of the world of mankind at
heart. The third free state for which
another star will be placed in the woman's
flag, and the forty fifth star in the flag dear
to every patriot and recognized as the flag of
liberty throughout the world.
	It is a singular thing that the west, 
the intermountain states should lead in the mat-
ter of equal suffrage, which in itself means
progression, the East hangs back and
clings more closely to all old forms and
traditions, while the great broad magnifi-
cent West, reaches outward and upward for
larger growth, and greater enterprise, tak-
ing in the newer elements without fear of
disaster and conserving all the vitality by
new methods, to produce stronger and
wider breadth of conditions, for the benefit
and blessing of the great masses of people,
who must be considered, in society and in
government.
	It will be a great strength to the women
who have labored so long and so diligently
when they meet again in Convention at
Washington this coming winter to have the
satisfaction of knowing that Utah’s political
freedom is an established fact. The three
free states will be like a tower of strength to
the organization, and the women leaders
are wise and judicious and will make the best
use of the influence for further work in that
labor which is still in the future.
	The women of Utah should see to it now
that they act their part bravely and well.
always looking for the opportunity to do
good, or to work reform of that which is
evil, and never be hoodwinked by wily pol-
iticians into making promises that they will
afterwards repent or feel compelled to break.
There is still work to be done, there are
many things yet to learn, and help to be
given to those who have not been favored
with a knowledge of public affairs. There-
fore the study clubs upon civil government
are almost a necessity, and whether the
books recommended by the National As-
sociation, or some other works are used, it
is certain some course to inform all women
so far as possible should be considered by
women in all voting precincts. Without
any regard to party or party issues but in all

[Column 2]
seriousness these matters should be taken
under advisement. All women foreign
born who are not naturalized, should see to
taking out naturalization papers, that they
may be an actual factor in the new state.
	Utah will be in a great measure what its
women make it, as Napoleon once said,
“what France needs is mothers", and it is
a common saying, "Show me the women
of a nation and I will tell you what that
nation is." The women of Utah will have
advantages hereafter not previously enjoyed
(not even when she possessed the franchise
before) because conditions and circum-
stances are widely different. When wo-
men study politics they will not only
broaden their own minds, but the intellect
of the sons will be brighter, and their
characters stronger. When His Excellency
President Cleveland shall have affixed his
official signature to the new Constitu-
tion and issued the Proclamation, then all suf-
frage women should acknowledge the free-
dom accorded them in some demonstration,
that will be suitable to so grand an occasion.


[Column 1]
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

		ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	THIS great stateswoman (Mrs. Stanton)
has reached four score years in the scale of
time, but in the scale of progression who
can fathom the heights she has attained.
Looking backward over her long and event-
ful and extraordinary life, what wonderful
lessons may be learned from it. Her birth-
day was observed in many places in some
way calculated to do honor to the woman
and the cause she represents. As yet but
only the dispatches sent out by the associat-
ed press have reached here, of what was
done in New York at the celebration on the
12th of November.
	The entertainment was in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House, and was in the hands of
a very efficient Committee and under the
auspices of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Mrs. Stanton was born in Johnstown,
New York. Her father, Judge Daniel
Cady, was a distinguished and, it is said,
the oldest Judge who ever sat on an Ameri-
can bench, resigning at the age of 84 years.
Her mother also comes of a celebrated
family, her father was Col. James Living-
ston, who fired into the Vulture, which sent
the British vessel down the river and caused
Andre’s capture by our men.
	Mrs. Stanton with Lucretia Mott, the
venerable Quaker, called the first “Wo-
man’s Rights Convention” ever known; it
met at Seneca Falls, New York, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. A day which will be ever
memorable in the history of the country,
for it has brought about such changed con-
ditions to women and in public sentiment
and affairs, as no other meeting since the
days of the Declaration of Independence.
	Mrs. Stanton’s labors for half a century
can scarcely be estimated, but the results of
that labor upon the world will never be
obliterated, it is an immortal tribute to her,
and to the women who have participated
and assisted in the work, especially Susan
B. Anthony her life long friend and able
co-worker.
	Mrs. Stanton has ever been a model
housekeeper, a devoted wife and mother, a
good illustration of this is given in a little
circumstance which happened in Albany
when some women who were opposed to

[Column 2]
her, asked “how she could spend so much
time from home and leave her children.”
She replied “that she had two children and
a maid with her at the hotel, and it took
no more time for her to give her lecture
than for them to listen.”
	At the celebration for Mrs. Stanton in
New York all lines of women’s progressive
work, were represented by able speakers,
and veterans of the suffrage cause were in
attendance.  One special object of the re-
union was to bring together these representa-
tives and pioneers to show what has been
accomplished during the last half century.
	The fact of Utah coming in as a free
state with equal suffrage just previous to
the reunion, is something to be proud of,
and as there were two Utah people present,
Samuel W. Richards and wife, it is most
likely that Utah came in for a fair share of
the honors on this great occasion.
	Susa Young Gates, of Provo, in thinking
how Utah could be appropriately repre-
sented at the reunion, suggested an onyx
ballot-box of native material and trimmed
with silver, which abounds in the Utah hills.
Accordingly the box was made of exact
proportions and mounted with silver, and
engraved “Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Nov.
12, ’95,” on the padlock, and on the plate
“Presented by Utah women.” Both the
National Woman’s Relief Society and the
Young Ladies’ National Mutual Improve-
ment Association contributed their propor-
tion to the Council, towards the expenses
of the entertainment.
	No doubt the report from Brother and
Sister Richards will reach Salt Lake before
long and full particulars will be published
in the home papers.
	Mrs. Stanton’s whole life is a forcible
argument in favor of equal suffrage,  Al-
though Mrs. Stanton has been such a de-
voted home-keeper it is said it “would
probably take an entire column to give the
mere list of the societies she had joined, en-
couraged or aided, the movements and or-
ganizations, which she has created or
generaled.”


FORTY YEARS MARRIED.

	MR. AND MRS. EDWARD STEVENSON in-
vited a party of friends to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of their marriage at their
residence in this city on Monday, October
28, 1895. It was a very pleasant affair,
and the guests, about forty in number, were
served with a sumptuous dinner in keeping
with their proverbial hospitality, Mrs
Stevenson is a very gracious hostess and
always entertains generously. The so-
cial chat indulged in during the early part
of the evening with congratulations to the
host and hostess, the greetings to each in
turn as new arrivals were ushered in, was
quite enjoyable and after dinner Brother
Stevenson called upon some of those pres-
ent to say a few words, and such occasions
call for expressions of sentiment from old
time friends. President Angus M. Cannon
made congratulatory remarks, alluded to his
long acquaintance with the family and the
integrity and zeal of Brother and Sister
Stevenson in the Gospel and touched upon
the topics of the times. Mrs. E. B. Wells
tendered sincere congratulations, and re-
ferred to the many pleasant gatherings
there, when those who had since passed be-
hind the vail had been present with words
of good cheer and encouragement.
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his


pleasure in meeting with those who had
labored so long and diligently in the inter-
ests of the Gospel, and congratulated
Brother and Sister Steveuson, wishing
them many years of happiness and
prosperity together, and spoke in a very in-
teresting manner of the past, present and
future.
	Brother Stevenson occupied a short time,
speaking of his earlier life, and his singular
experiences, rejoiced that he had been
favored of the Lord in so many ways, ex-
pressed his regard and appreciation of the
kindness and good wishes of his friends,
and alluded in an interesting way to his re-
cent journey East.
	Brother Stevenson is a traveling mis-
sionary as indeed are all the seven Presi-
dents of Seventies, the quorum of which
he is a member; he has collected many
choice photographs and pictures of historical
value; with which he illustrates his public
lectures, and they are also very entertain-
ing as reminescences of history and of the
waste places of Zion.
	There were a number of people present
whom it would have been very edifying to
listen to, some of them, veterans in the
Church, but as the hour was growing late
Patriarch Joseph Horne was asked to pro-
nounce the benediction and the party broke
up.
	Among those present, besides those men-
tioned, who may be counted as veterans in
the Church, were Bishop R. T. Burton and
wife, Elder Ezra T. Clark and wife, of
Farmington, Patriarch Joseph Horne and
wife, we must also mention Bishop George
H. Taylor and wife, his Counselor T. E.
Taylor and wife, Sisters Jane B. Taylor,
Elizabeth Webb, Mary Alice Lambert,
Emily H. Cannon, Hannah C. Wells,
Maria W. Wilcox, Lucy W. Kimball, Mary
Ann Taylor, Mary E. Carter, and many
others. The regret of the evening was the
unavoidable absence of Presidents Wood-
ruff and Cannon, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	The EXPONENT extends congratulations
to Brother and Sister Stevenson wishing
them many more such anniversaries and
reunions of friends and an eternity of un-
alloyed happiness in the hereafter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EUGENE FIELD. 
_________________
EUGENE FIELD the beloved poet and 
man of letters, died suddenly and without
warning, Nov. 4th, at day break; the news
made not only Chicago sad but thousands
throughout the country will mourn the loss
of one of the brightest geniuses of the
nineteenth century. The newspapers and
magazines of the month contain touching
tributes to the memory of this man of bril-
liant genius, from his friends and com-
panions, all of them, men who are them-
selves famous in literature.


COLORADO WOMAN’S GREETING.
_________________________________
	THE women of Colorado who know
whereof they speak, send friendly greeting
to the women of Utah who have just been
enfranchised under the Constitution of the
new state. We heartily respond to this
cordial expression of their appreciation of
our full-fledged citizenship, and trust the
link that binds the women of the three free
states; Wyoming, Colorado and Utah to-
gether, may be as strong as the chain that


unites the rock-ribbed mountains of these
intermountain states, and as imperishable
as the pure metal with which these ever-
lasting hills abound.

OFEICIAL CONGRATULATIONS.
_____________________________
		DENVER, COLO. Nov. 12, 1895.
	Dear Mrs. Wells:
	The Colorado Equal Suffrage Asociation in ex-
ecutive session on November 9, 1895, instructed
its secretary to send congratulations to the newly
enfranchised women of Utah.
	May the granting of citizenship to the women
of Utah presage reforms manifold and beneficial;
and, in the march of progress, may your banner
ever float in the front ranks.
	We gladly adorn our suffrage flag with the
third star, and the women of Colorado wish you
God-speed as workers, and as citizens of this
great nation.
	Very cordially yours,
			THEODOSIA G. AMMONS, Sec.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A.W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, I3, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	Mrs. Wells: This is Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who came into the Valley in 1847,
and I venture to say has done as much
work in this part of the country, and per-
haps more than almost any other woman.
 Miss Anthony: Mrs. Horne came here
in ’47. Just think of it—two years before
gold was discovered in California and one
year before Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote
the resolution that enfranchisement was the
underlying right which women must de-
mand in order to secure liberty and equality
for women—one year before the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention was held at Seneca
Falls this woman crossed the plains, think
of it. She don’t look as if she ever did
much.
	REMARKS BY M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I assure you it
is very unexpected for me to be called upon
to address you this morning and particularly
after the eloquent addresses which you have
heard from those ladies, our visitors. I
have been a great worker in this Territory
and a great believer in Suffrage as long as I
can remember; in fact I don’t remember the
time when I didn’t think it was wrong to
show so much difference between men and
women. I was always advocating wo-
man’s rights and woman’s elevation from
my earliest recollection. I have not had
the privilege of working in the suffrage
cause particularly of late years as I would
like, as I have had so many other things
pressing upon me and claiming my atten-
tion; but I am heart and soul imbued with
the cause and I rejoice most exceedingly in
the remarks which have been made before
us this morning and I hope every one has
enjoyed them as much as I have. They
have sunk deep into my heart, and I ap-
prove of the principle which those noble
women have set before you so clearly and
so intelligently, and it seems almost like
wasting time to invite me to speak this
morning after hearing what has been said
by our late visitors. I am heart and soul
with you and also feel that we should be
congratulated, as they have congratulated
us, in view of our becoming a state with
equal suffrage in the Constitution and look
with great hope that we shall receive. that
right.

[Column 2]
	There have been many things said about
the ballot unsexing women, that they
would neglect their homes, that they would
become masculine etc. This was said to us
a great many years ago. We who have
been here a number of years realize that
we had the ballot for 17 years, and I would
like to ask the question what home has
been injured, what family has been
neglected, who became masculine? It has
not taken away any of our motherly feel-
ings. Has it unsexed us? We went to
the polls, the gentlemen opened the way
for us, we passed in our vote and I would
be glad if we could induce all the men and
women to believe in equal suffrage for both
sexes. God created us equal, we stood side
by side when mankind was created and man
has no right to say “I am the master.”
God gave our first parents the freedom of
the earth, he told them to go forth and in-
habit the earth, but even the freedom which
he gave to man is taken away from us, but
the time is coming when women will stand
side by side with man, that they may
work together. It would be much better
if they could work in union and homes
would be happier. I don’t feel that it
would be wise for me to continue my re-
marks but as Miss Anthony said, to think
that we crossed these dreary plains with
ox teams in ’47, when this valley was a
dry desert country, and all that we
possessed was an ox team and one year’s
provisions, which we had to bring with us
before we knew whether the country would
produce it, and as Miss Shaw said yesterday
it took a good deal of moral courage and
faith in God to live through those circum-
stances. When our grain was grown much
of it had to be pulled up by the roots. We
were eating our last sack of flour and the
crickets eating our fields of grain, and star-
vation stared us in the face to that extent
that we did not know but that we would
all die of starvation; but the Lord sent the
gulls and they devoured the crickets and
disgorged them and devoured them again.
That is a sample of the trials that attended
us in settling this valley. I have talked
long enough and I hope that we shall suc-
ceed in our great cause.
	Mrs. Wells:—Ladies and Gentlemen:
This is Mrs. E. H. Parsons.
REMARKS BY MRS. E. H. PARSONS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: So much has
been said by those who preceded me that
there is nothing left for me to say except,
that I am very glad to have the opportunity
to welcome these noble ladies who have
done so much for the cause, and who for so
many years have had to undergo discourage-
ments and rebuffs. It is now time to think
of the other half of humanity. It is 20
minutes past 12 and I have duties to call
me at half past 12. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony: I have the pleasure to
present to you the Hon. J. R. Murdock of
this Territory, who was in the legislature
of 1869 and 1870 when suffrage was first
extended to the women of this Territory,
and he was an honorable member of the
Constitutional Convention and is an ardent
believer in the suffrage question.
REMARKS BY HON. J. R. MURDOCK.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
	I fully appreciate this distinguished honor
which has been extended to me on this oc-
casion. I certainly have been gratified to
be present here to listen to the noble words


[Column 1]
that have been uttered by Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw and those other ladies who
have spoken, and it seems to me that there
is nothing left that I could say that would
be gratifying or interesting to you, but I
certainly feel a thorough sympathy in the
cause of Woman Suffrage—I have ever felt
so from the time that suffrage was first
given to them, in fact before. When it was
put forth in the legislature I very readily
consented to give it my influence and my
support and I have no fear of the results of
giving suffrage to the women of Utah, we
had it as has been said in common with the
men, and the women went to the polls and
cast their ballot and no evil resulted from it.
Of course Woman Suffrage like all other
new theories that have been advanced has
met with distrust and misgiving; but I feel
gratified and pleased that I myself was of
the number that recently in the Convention
cast my vote and my voice in the interest
of equal suffrage to humanity in this Ter-
ritory, which I trust and hope will be so
perfect in the estimation of the people that
it will receive their endorsement and sanc-
tion. Of course there may be women who
are opposed to suffrage, but I think the
sympathy and the feelings of the people
generally is gaining ground in the interest
of suffrage, and I think it will continue to
do so and I think eventually it will extend
throughout this broad land, this great Re-
public of which you and I are a part. I
think it will extend to every nation. As
we find civilization increase and advance,
we find there is more liberty and freedom
extended to the human race. If we take
history in the early ages when man was in
semi-barbarism women have had less free-
dom than when they became more civilized.
As civilization extends from the Far East
to the Far West there will be more freedom
extended to every class and community,and
for that reason we should not fail to strug-
gle on until every daughter has free and
equal rights with man. This is my feeling
and my desire and I shall do all in my
power to promote it. I have been associated
with an organization to some extent, and I
am an honorary member in the County of
Beaver, and we have some very excellent
organizations and I am pleased to see the
progress that is being made there, and it
will grow and increase, and we must not
forget that all the good things that come
to the human family come with some labor
and some exertion and we ought to put
forth our might, our influence and our
voice to promote these things that are so
excellent and are of so much consequence
to us when we become acquainted with them.
The great difficulty with the people is that
they are not educated in this principle, it
has not been explained to them although it
has been in their midst. So many are care-
less and indifferent, it is only a small por-
tion of the women that take the interest
that they should, and that they will when
they can become better acquainted with
what is to their interest. It is no less so
with the women part of the community
than it is with the men when anything new
is introduced into their midst, they look up-
on every new theory with distrust. I feel
highly pleased at the progress that has been
made by the noble ladies who have come
from the far-off part of the country to ad-
vise, promote and advance their ideas in
behalf of suffrage for the women of our
Territory, and I congratulate myself that I
have the privilege of meeting them, and I
congratulate you ladies for the privilege

[Column 2]
you have of hearing their voices, and being
in their presence and listening to their
eloquent speeches, and I say to you, do not
miss an opportunity of coming here and
listening to them. I thank you for your
kind attention in listening to my remarks.
	Adjourned until 8:30 p. m.
	Monday evening May, 13th, 1895. Con-
ference called to order by Miss Anthony in
the Convention hall at 8-30 p. m.
	Opening prayer by president Angus M.
Cannon. Miss Maude Pratt and the Cecelia
Club sang “The Psalm of Life” which was
beautifully rendered.
	Mrs. Wells: I am very proud to be able
to say to you that Miss Anthony will ad-
dress us in a very few minutes and I hope
the people will not spare their enthusiasm
tonight and I trust you will applaud her.
(Applause.)

REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	Now my good friends, is it not remark-
able that when our Revolutionary Fathers
made this magnificent declaration: “That
all men are created equal: governments de-
rive their just power from the consent of the
governed: taxation and representation are
nseparable," that they should have pro-
ceeded thereupon to establish a government
practically in violation of every one of those
fundamental principles which they thus loud-
ly proclaim. Instead of a government
based upon the principle that every man
and consequently every woman is created
equal, they have based a government upon
the blood and bones of half a million
people who have been bought and sold as
chattels in the market; instead of basing
their government upon the consent of the
governed, they have based it upon the con-
sent of a few white men who were pos-
sessed of a certain amount of property; so
that instead of founding a government
with these principles a general Democratic
Republican form of government they
founded a white male aristocracy of wealth,
and the whole work of a hundred years and
more, since the establishment of this gov-
ernment has been in putting forth a barrier
to our progress and onr efforts have been to
remedy those injustices by advocating the
great principle of equality. In the old
Colonial days property qualification was re-
quired, and when that property qualifica-
tion was removed we had established in the
United States not a Demoratic form of gov-
ernment, not a Republican form of govern-
ment but simply a white male aristocracy;
then the first great battle was fought which
demolished the color line so that no dis-
tinction could be made in suffrage in any
state in the Union on account of race,
color or previous condition of servitude;
and from that day we have had a male
aristocracy and the first state or territory to
break this great line of demarkation of sex
was Wyoming. In 1869 Wyoming Ter-
ritory passed a law giving women equal
rights of suffrage with the men and im-
mediately following Wyoming was this
Territory of Utah giving women the equal
right to vote with the men, and you know
the history and reason that this Territory
has not continued granting to women this
constitutional right. But the Wyoming wo-
men have voted from the beginning, while
your women voted for 17 years in this Ter-
ritory but the government interfered and
took away from the women of the Territory
the right to vote—I as one, and my friend
Mrs. Stanton another, always declared that

[Column 3]
since the national government did refuse at
the close of the war to interfere with our
states and to declare the true interpretation
of the XIV Amendment, enfranchised the
women of the nation as well as the colored
men of the nation, we declared to them
that the XIV Amendment which reads,
“All persons born or naturalized in the
United States and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of the United States
and no state shall make or enforce laws
which shall abridge the privileges and im-
munities of the citizens of the United
States; we declared by that amendment
the states were prevented from denying
the rights and privileges of voting to the
women as well as the men; but the Supreme
Court decided against us and Congress de-
cided against us, and when Congress and
the National Government had refused to
interfere with the states for the protection
of the citizens rights to the privileges and
immunities of citizenship then we made
our protest. But when Wyoming after 25
years came into the Union with its whole
citizenship, giving the right to vote to all
who could read the Constitution of the
State and of the United States in the
English language, then we felt that the day
of woman’s freedom had really dawned,
and after the enemies of woman suffrage
on the floor of Congress had made their
proudest fight to withhold that right from
us; but justice prevailed, and when the
majority of congress voted for the admission
of Wyoming with Woman Suffrage, we
knew that victory would yet be ours, and
we know today that when your Constitu-
tional Convention made your suffrage
clause after the fashion of Wyoming, giv-
ing to every citizen of the State who had
the proper qualification the right to vote,
we know that when your constitution shall
have been adopted or "ratified by the
majority of the voters of your State, and
shall go up to Washington next winter
knocking at the door for admission into the
Union, we know that Congress will admit
Utah with full suffrage to her women just
as well as Congress admitted Wyoming
with full suffrage to women. If this Ter-
ritory is made a state it will be made a
state with the full equality of right to wo-
men established in the organic law of the
state (applause) beyond the power, thank
God, of any congress or state, to interfere
again with the full and free exercise of the
right of suffrage belonging to the people of
the state of Utah. Now during the years
in which the battles have been going on in
Utah and Wyoming, we have had the bat-
tles going on in all the states of the Union;
we have petitioned our state legislatures
from year to year to submit the proposition
for suffrage for women—begging legislatures
to extend municipal suffrage to women by
legislative enactment and in every pos-
sible way have agitated the subject. We
have been going to Congress every year for
a quarter of a century or more, asking Con-
gress for a XVI Amendment to the Con-
stitution enfranchising women, we went up
there in ’69 at the same time that the wo-
men of Wyoming and the women of Utah
were enfranchised by their territorial legis-
latures, and from that time up to this year
we have gone to Washington every year
before the Committees of the two houses
and a number of other bodies, to petition
them to pass a resolution submitting this
proposition for a XVI Amendment, the en-
franchisement of the women of the nation.
This has been the great work that has been


[Column 1]
going on from time to time. In 1887 six-
teen senators on the floor of the Senate of
the United States, voted in favor of the sub-
mission of a separate amendment in favor
of Woman Suffrage, but oh dear, I don’t
know how many voted “no.” Sometimes
our friends are pleased to tell us in private,
they aim to have business to be absent when
the vote is taken.
	Now in the different states of the union
in which the women have been making de-
mands on the floor of the different legisla-
tures of their states for submitting the
proposition, ten different states from time to
time have submitted that proposition.
Kansas was the first. In 1867 at the close
of the best campaign that was made in the
state 9,070 men voted “yes” and 18,000
voted “no.” In 1874 Michigan submitted
the question, and after we had sent all the
speakers we could to help Michigan make
a great educational campaign 40,000 of the
best men in the state voted “yes” and
80,000 voted “no.” We have made a hard
fight and kept up a perpetual agitation on
this question for a quarter of a century,
such as the world has never witnessed on
any other question by any other people
we have done work enough, held conven-
tions enough, made appeals enough, cir-
culated pamphlets and newspapers enough
to have converted the whole world and car-
ried everything which we have demanded,
except for the fact that we who made the
fight had no political power, we had no
power to make or enact a single law or a
single office holder. If we had the power
behind us, had we the privilege to vote in
this nation we would not ask in vain. (Ap-
plause.) In 1870 when Colorado needed
our services we buckled on our harness, and
went out there before railroads were built,
and I traveled over the magnificent
mountains and magnificent valleys a great
deal of the way on a buck-board hundreds
of miles, and we had performed our best
work and the question came to the ballot
box 6,666 voted “yes” and 12,000 voted
“no.” You see how general the education
is. Then in 1882 came Nebraska with a
similar result; in 1884 Oregon; in 1886 R. I.
(Rhode Island;) in 1889 Washington; in
1890 South Dakota and then again we have
the same result, two to one virtually.
South Dakota was a new state; the very
first settlement was in 1882; in 1890 the
question was submitted; the total vote of
that state was 70,000; out of the 70,000
votes cast 40,000 were native born, more
than 30,000 were foreigners. I will not
stop to tell you of all the preliminary ex-
ercises or details but we held a convention
and raised $5,000 and paid the travelling
expenses of the best speakers we had in all
the country, and sent them up to South
Dakota and carried on the campaign for
six months, the best we possibly could; but
when election day came 24,000 out of the
40,000 native born voted “no” and the
whole solid 30,000 foreign born men, the
best portion of them Russians voted “no.”
You cannot expect those who emigrate to
this country from the old world where they
had no rights whatever, where they were
ground under the heel of despotism to think
that women should have any rights. At
least if you do expect it you will always be
disappointed. They have been educated
simply in selfishness, they never seem to
dream of a possibility or necessity for women
to have rights extended in any possible
direction. They come here simply to bet-

[Column 2]
ter their financial condition and they con-
sider if they can vote and earn money
themselves that the women must not share
with them.
	In 1893 Colorado submitted the question
again whether women should be entitled
to the right to vote, and the women of Col-
orado made a most heroic struggle, the re-
sult of which was that the Republican par-
ty, the Democratic party and the Populist
party, put a Woman Suffrage plank in
their platforms, and my good friends the
result was that every meeting throughout
that campaign of 1893, the Woman Suffrage
question was discussed, and when election
day came and when the vote was taken
7,000 more of the Colorado men voted in
favor of woman’s enfranchisement than
against it. For the first time in the his-
tory of the world a majority of the class
holding absolute power over another class
went to the ballot box and voted “yes” to
share that power equally with the less
fortunate class of Colorado which turned
the tide for this question to be carried to the
Ballot box. Wyoming set the example for
the legislature to extend suffrage to the
women and Utah followed the example of
Wyoming: so those two states have the
credit and will have it through all time for
being the first legislatures of the Union to
extend full suffrage to their women, and
then Colorado stands as the first state in
the Union to give suffrage to women by
what we term the popular vote; and now
you are the second state in the Union which
shall have submitted to its people its consti-
tution with equal suffrage imbedded in that
fundamental law. (Applause). As Wy-
oming with full suffrage imbedded in its
constitution adopted that constitution, with
this justice to women, just so Utah’s funda-
mental law is giving to her voters, the men
of the State of Utah, the privilege of extend-
ing this great principle of justice to the
women of her territory: and just as sure as
the men and women of the State of Wyo-
ming voted for the ratification of that con-
stitution with justice imbedded in it, iust so
surely will the majority of the men of Utah
go to the ballot box and vote for the ratifica-
tion of your constitution. So friends, the tide
is turning in the direction of full enfran-
chisement to women. In several of the
states women enjoy the right of suffrage to
a certain extent: in Kansas they have
municipal suffrage established for women
and then we have Colorado, Wyoming and
Utah with full suffrage extended, for you
are just as surely there as if you were there
already, and the states of these old rock-
ribbed mountains are the first to embody
ustice in their constitution and are going to
set the example, which is to be followed by
the other states by knocking that little
adjective male out of the suffrage clause of
the Constitution. (Applause.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Two ladies were elected members of
parliament in the reign of Edward III.
MISS MARY SNOW has been re-elected
superintendent of the public schools of
Bangor, Me.
	IN the death of the distinguished Scandi-
navian, Hjalmar Hjorth Boyesen, professor
of Germanic literature at Columbia College,
the principle of a free opportunity and
equal justice for women loses an influential
advocate.

[Column 2]
	THE following cities in Michigan, among
others, have this year elected women for
school trustees: Detroit, Ann Arbor, Grand
Rapids, Port Huron, Flint, Saginaw, Bay
City, Albion, Battle Creek, Kalamazoo,
Ypsilanti, Jackson. In Battle Creek one
woman was chosen president, another
secretary, and in Jackson a woman was
made treasurer of the board.
	MRS. ORMISTON CHANT received a visit
at hfer home in London this summer from
Rev. S. J. Barrows, who has just published
in the Christian Register a delightful
picture of her home, drawn from his own
observation. Mrs. Chant has been sur-
feited with newspaper praises, but she took
great pleasure in Mr. Barrows’ letter,
‘because,” she said, “it does justice to my
husband.” It has been a regret to Mrs.
Chant that the papers, while loading her
with compliments, have known and said so
little about the man who has been her con-
stant support and inspiration in all her re-
form work.—Ex.
	ACTIVE efforts and a large expenditure
of money, including a fund raised by the
Liquor Dealer’s Association of the State—
circulars addressed personally to the lead-
ing political workers of both parties in
every town and city, posters, flyers, and
the vigorous use of party machinery—such
were the means employed by the opponents
of woman suffrage. While they no doubt
ncreased the adverse majority, they have
brought the subject to public attention as
never before, and have given the suffragists
the names of friends and co-workers in
four localities where they had one before.
The agitation will henceforth be vastly
broadened and extended, for which we
heartily thank our opponents. Woman
suffrage has made more converts in Mas-
sachusetts during the past month than in
any previous year.—Boston Woman's
Journal.
	PERHAPS it is not too much to assert that
the majority of women have very
nadequate conceptions of the value and ex-
tent of time. The man of business learns
to understand just what five minutes will
do and what it means. It may mark the
limit of banking hours or the departure of
an important train. Promptness is so great
an essential in business circles, and a few
wasted moments may mean so much of
gain or loss or wasted opportunity, that
men are forced to learn the value of time,
and less frequently than women under-esti-
mate its uses. The woman who, in fem-
nine parlance, “accomplishes” much is the
woman who has learned to use and save
her minutes. Many women who are really
ndustrious think nothing of squandering
ten or fifteen minutes in an unmeaning, un-
satisfactory chat with an acquaintance,
then wonder at the close of the day what
has become of the hours. A very few.
misspent hours destroy a day’s usefulness.
Almost as deplorable as the waster of time
in gossip is the woman who never has time
for a pleasant chat with her friends, and
whose mind is so crowded with household
or social cares that she inwardly begrudges
the time given to a caller. However, there
is a happy medium between these extremes,
which it is well worth every woman’s
while to strive for. Time means golden
opportunities for so many helpful, interest-
ing occupations. Balzac says that in Paris
everybody wants to find a twenty-fifth


hour among the twenty-four. In our own
country we are looking away beyond that,
and would welcome the addition of a round
dozen hours to the calendar day.
	 MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE met with a
serious accident in New Orleans, While
she was out riding with a friend, an elec-
tric car struck the carriage, dashing it to
splinters. Happily, neither of the inmates
was killed but Mrs. Howe was thrown
violently to the ground, and, besides the
fall and the shock, she received injuries
about the knees, how serious we have not
yet heard. Her many friends will await
further news with anxious interest.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	OUR greatest glory is not in never fall-
ing, but rising every time we fall.—Con-
fucius.
	THE man who does his work well dig-
nifies it, but he does not usually wear gloves
while at work.
	ALL reasoning is retrospect; it consists
in the application of facts and principles
previously known. This will show the
very great importance of knowledge, es-
pecially of that kind called experience.—
J. Foster.
	As every thread of gold is valuable, so
is every minute of time and it would be
great folly to shoe horses (as Nero did) with
gold, so it is to spend time in trifles.—Mason.
	IT is not enough that we swallow truth
we must feed upon it as insects do on the
leaf, till the whole heart be colored by its
qualities, and show its food in every fiber.
—Coleridge.
	PROSPERITY has this property: It puffs
up narrow souls, makes them imagine
themselves high and mighty, and look down
upon the world with contempt; but a
truly noble and resolved spirit appears
greatest in distress, and then becomes more
bright and conspicuous.—Plutarch’s Lives.


HONOR TO A NOTED WOMAN.

	THE entertainment given at Farmington,
Utah Nov. 12, in honor of Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton’s eightieth birthday, was a
genuine success.
	The W. S. A. Convention met at the
same place in the afternoon, the State
President Mrs. E. B. Wells and Vice Presi-
dent Mrs. Emily S. Richards of S. L. City
were present; and Mrs. Richards and dele-
gates, from various parts of the country, re-
mained for the evening.
	At the door each lady was presented a
Stanton—Anthony souvenir.
	The following program was successfully
rendered.
	Prayer, Ezra T. Clark; Flag Song, four-
teen Primary boys and girls; Opening Ad-
dress, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark; Life of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Annie Tanner;
Tableau—Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony. Reading, “Utah the Star of the
West,” Miss Algie Walker; Comic Song,
Mrs. Lizzie Cotterall; Essay, “Woman of


the Twentieth Century” Miss Hattie Knowl-
ton; Tableau, Utah; Speech, G. W. Palmer;
Song, Mr. and Mrs. Froiseth; Recitation,
Miss Alice Clark; Song, Sadie Compton and
Rebecca Steed; Speech Mrs. Emily S.
Richards; Tableau, Ballot Box of the Past,
Present and Future.
	SECRETARY W. S. A. Farmington.


MRS. EMMA G. BULL.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTION of respect, adopted by the of-
ficers and members of the 17th Ward Relief
Society, to the memory of the late Emma G.
Bull who died, Oct. 24, 1895, at her residence,
after a short illness.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved secretary,
Sister Bull.
	Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of
Sister Bull the loss of a faithful, energetic, reliable
secretary, a friend to the needy a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother and
true Latter-day Saint, that we esteem her faithful
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion as
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
	Resolved, that we condole and sincerely
sympathize with the bereaved husband, children
and friends in the loss of a faithful wife, loving
mother and sincere friend.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon
the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society and
that we publish the same in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	MRS. B. W. SMITH, Prest.
	MRS. A. T. HYDE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	SISTER FRANCIS CROSBY BROWN died at her
home in Nutrioso, Apache Co, Arizona, on Oct.
12th, 1895.
	Sister Brown was born in Yarmouth, Nova
Scotia, Oct 31st, 1817, her parents were Joshua
and Hannah Cann Crosby. She was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, Dec. 10th, 1838, in Chatauqua Co.
New York. She gathered with the Saints at
Commerce, afterwards called Nauvoo, Ills., June
6th, 1839, in company with her mother, three
brothers, John K., Obed and Jessie W. Crosby
and sisters Hannah Crosby Mumford, and Eliza
Crosby Turrill. Her mother Hannah Cann
Crosby was the first Latter-day Saint who died at
Nauvoo and Mother Huntington, mother of Aunt
Zina and Brother William Huntington, was the
second person, one died in the evening and the
other in the morning, and their funeral services
were held together and Elder Sidney Rigdom did
the preaching.
	Sister Brown is the last of this Crosby family
except John K. Crosby, of Bountiful Davis Co.
who is over eighty years of age; and they all died
firm in the faith of the Gospel. She was married
to Lorenzo Brown in Nauvoo, March 24th, 1844,
the Prophet Joseph Smith officating, by which
marriage she had three sons and one daughter,
all of whom are still living.  She has 33 grand
and great-grand children living. She received
her blessings &c., in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 12,
1846. Suffered with her co-religonists in that
memorial exodus from Nauvoo, Ill., and reached
Salt Lake Valley Sept. 21st, 1848, and after a
short stay in the old fort located in the seventh
ward just north of the home of Bishop Thomas
Jenkins. She moved with her husband and family
to St. George, Washington Co. Utah, in 1862,and
may really be called a pioneer in the settlements
of Nauvoo, Salt Lake and St. George. Brother
and Sister Brown were called to labor as regular
assistants in the St. George Temple, by President
Brigham Young when it was opened in 1877.
	She moved to Arizona in 1883, and located at
Nutrioso; Sister Brown held the position of Stake
Secretary of Relief Society in the St. George
Stake for several year. She has also acted as
Ward President of the Relief Society in Nutrioso
during which time the sisters built a nice hall,
the best in this stake of Zion. Sister Brown
would have been 78 years old had she lived till
the 31st.
	She had a paralytic stroke Sep, 5th, 1895, by
which she lost the use of her right side, up to
which time she attended to her household duties,

[Column 2]
so it may be said she died of old age as she had
no disease and was sick only a few weeks. She
died in the presence of her husband, two sons
and her daughter, and all was done that loving
hands could do for her. She died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection with the just.
								G. H. C.

	IT becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our dear sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Ingri Peterson Meyer was born Nov. 16,
1840 in Fru Alstad, Malino, Hus-Legn, Sweden.
She came to Vandrup, Denmark, in the year 1867,
where she met and married Christian Meyer,
Nov. 22nd, 1874.
	She, with her husband, was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
the 27th, of February, 1877, in Vandrup, Den-
mark. They emigrated to Utah in June of the
same year. Resided in and around Nephi, Juab
Co., for two years, then moved to Vermillion
Ward, Sevier Co.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society, which
office she held at the time of her death. She al-
so held the position of first Counselor in the Y.
L.M. I. A. for many years; both positions she
honorably filled. Sister Meyer was a Latter-day
Saint in very deed; she,was an earnest worker for
the cause of truth, was kind and benevolent to
all around her; and though she was sick for a
long time she was never heard to complain, but
bore her lot like a true Saint of God. She died
Oct. 25th. 1895, at Sigurd (formerly a part of
Vermillion Ward,) surrounded by her family and
many friends. She leaves a husband, two sons
and one adopted daughter, to mourn her loss.
	May she rest in peace.
						REBECCA NEBEKER,
			Committee{	VIOLET IVIE,
						MINNIE S. DASTRUP.
Sigurd, Nov. 6th, 1895.
				Scandinavian Star, please copy.
MRS. SARAH CHAPMAN ELDREDGE.
RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Sinah Chipman Eldredge, who died of
pneumonia, in American Fork, Sep. 27, 1895.
	She was born September 11, 1831, in Leeds Co.
Canada West; she joined the Church, when eight
years old, and moved with her parents, Stephen
and Amanda Chipman, to Missouri, thence to
Iowa, from there to Council Bluffs, then came to
Salt Lake City, in Sep. 1847, where she resided
until the spring of 1851, when she moved to
American Fork, residing there until the time of
her death. She was sick for about five months,
during which time she manifested great faith and
resignation to the will of her Heavenly Father.
	She leaves four children, one son and three
daughters to mourn her loss; also, quite a num-
ber of grand children and great grand-children.
	She was a true Latter-day Saint, and has faith-
fully discharged the duties of a teacher in the
Relief Society since its first organization until
three years ago, when she desired to be released
on account of failing health.
	She took great pleasure in testifying to the
children of the saints concerning the Divine Mis-
sion of the Prophet Joseph Smith whom she had
seen and heard.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members
of the Relief Society do sympathize with the be-
reaved family in their loss of a loving mother,and
pray God. our Heavenly Father, to comfort and
bless them and help them to realize that their loss
will be her eternal gain.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, also be spread upon
our records, and one sent to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE.
		Committee{	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
					CHARLOTTE SHELLEY.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1895. No.13.


CONTENTS: 
	Letter From New York—S. W. & M. A. Rich-
ards. Notes. Pilgrim Mothers’ Dinner—Marilla
M. Ricker. U. W. P. C.—Lizzie S. Wilcox. A
Happy Party—M. J. Rawson. Sonya Kovolevsky
—J. M. S. Woman Suffrage Column—M E.
Irvine, Sec. Thanksgiving Half A Century Ago
—Aunt Em. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
L. D. Alder. Relief Society Conference—Mar-
garet A. Caine. Relief Society Reports. State
W. S. A. Of Utah. Eternity Of God—S. W.
Richards. In Rural England—A Story—Con-
cluded. R. S. & P. A. Reports. Conference
N. A. W. S. A. In Memoriam. Louise Jose-
phine Laporte Lang—Hortense Mary Jones.
	EDITORIAL:—Faith In The Future Of Utah.
	POETRY:—Elizabeth Cady Stanton—Margherita
Arlina Hamm. Thanksgiving—New York Sun.


TO ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

1815—NOVEMBER 12,—1895.
No cannon breaks the crystal day,
No chimes cast clamor on the air;
No troops wheel past in glad array
To honor and their love display
For throne or Presidential chair,
The sun and stars look down upon
No war-encrimsoned gonfalon,
But only on a woman’s face—
An uncrowned monarch of our race.
For her ten million hearts today
Raise earnest prayer and praise on high;
Prayer that she longer here may stay
And see the early morning’s gray
Change slowly into rosy sky.
Praise for her busy four-score years,
Praise for her labor, love and tears,
Self-consecrated to the good
Of universal womanhood.
Our lives are monuments. Each one
A structure builds to mark his place.
The humblest slave beneath the sun,
The serf whose work is never done,
The lord and prince of proudest race,
Each builds unconscious of the deed,
Inspired by an immortal need,
A viewless fabric which shall be
His record through eternity.
Dear Elder Sister, thou hast wrought
A monument which through the years
Shall shine in majesty of thought,
In moral power with wisdom fraught,
And consolation free from fears;
A monument of days long gone,
A palace of the present dawn,
A beacon for the years to be
Unto our poor humanity!
	MARGHERITA ARLINA HAMM.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM NEW YORK.
	48 Sands St. Brooklyn, N. Y.
						Nov. 14, 1895.
SECTETARY N. W. RELIEF SOCIETY,
	Dear Sister:—Now that the occasion of
“Reunion of the Pioneers and friends of
Woman’s Progress,” on the eightieth birth-
day of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has
passed into history, as also the reception
tendered her on yesterday at the Hotel
Savoy, at which we were present, we send
to you a brief memoraudum of some of the
features of that event.
	The letter of information and sug-
gestions relative to our attendance, was

[Column 2]
duly received. The Metropolitian Opera
House at which the Reunion was held, seem-
ed a very appropriate place, said to have a
seating capacity, for three thousand two hun-
dred and nine persons, and from the gallery
boxes, banners with suitable mottoes, and
other decorations added to the attractiveness
of the place, while in the front centre of the
platform was erected an arch most beauti-
fully decorated with flowers, under which
was seated the lady guest of the occasion,
and by her side the President of the
National Council, Mrs. Dickinson, delegates
&c., occupied the spacious platform
promiscuously. It was eight thirty p. m.
when the President Mrs. Dickinson tendered
an expression of welcome and greeting, and
program proceedings commenced.
	But only a portion of the program ap-
peared on the stage. It has been suggested
previously that speakers should be allowed
ten minutes, but lectures were read occupy-
ing time, in one instance to twenty-five
minutes, and others without restriction, so
that only a comparatively small part of the
program was realized.
	It is understood, however, that a Pamph-
let will be published, in which will appear
all the addresses prepared for the occasion,
among them probably, one from the Utah
delegation.
	Notice of Reception on the following day
to be held at the Hotel Savoy, was given
with invitation extended to those who
would be pleased to attend. At this, the
Utah Delegation was present, and was cor-
dially recognized by Ladies Stanton,
Anthony, Dickinson and others too numer-
ous to mention. Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony especially spoke of their high re-
gard for the ladies of Utah, and wished a
suitable remembrance. No public presenta-
tion of the Onyx Box was made, but it
was mentioned among other presents which
had been received.
	The whole affair was very pleasant and
at the reception Mrs. Dickinson announced
that in 1900, five years hence, there would
be another similar event, and all were re-
quested to see that at that time their purses
were well filled as well as their minds
stored, for that, to be, most grand affair.
Elder Barnes who with us visited the Com-
mittee, received a complimentary ticket and
attended.
	The Utah delegation wore the colors, blue,
white and gold, which represent the colors
of the Utah Ladies Banner. As you will no
doubt be favored with the pamphlets when
they appear with the addresses, the sisters
will then be able to express their approval or
disapproval of the sentiments offered by
the delegation, as representing woman’s
rights and efforts, and the sure reward of
those efforts.
	Permit us now to say that it was a pleas-
ing opportunity for us, and we only hope
it may be quite satisfactory to those whom
we in person were honored to represent,
though not assigned to any program duty
upon the occasion, by which our voice
could be heard in praise of the labor done
under the most perfect organization known,
and by the ladies of Utah, who are not a

[Column 3]
whit behind the chiefest of those to whom
homage is paid.
	Wishing you, and those prominently en-
gaged with you as saviors among men,
life, peace and happiness; we are your fel-
low laborers for human redemption,
			S. W. & M. A. RICHARDS.


FULLY 8,000 people, says Margherita
Arlina Hamm, assembled in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House in New York City to cele-
brate the 80th birthday anniversary of our
honored leader, Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Every seat and box were sold and re-sold at
an enormous advance.
	In the centre of the platform were three
chairs of state, Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
president of the National Council of Wo-
men sat in one, Miss Anthony in another,
and the central seat somewhat elevated, was
occupied by Mrs. Stanton. Above its high
red back appeard a ground of white
chrysanthemums with the word "Stanton”
formed by red carnations. Festoons of
roses draped the chair. One can easily im-
agine that Mrs. Stanton’s fair, majestic face,
with its aureole of white puffed hair, in this
brilliant setting made a picture not soon to
be forgotten.
 	The boxes and balcony seats had mostly
been taken by representatives of different
associations and were decorated with their
emblems and colors adding greatly to the
splendor of the occasion.
	PERHAPS the most unique of the many
celebrations of Mrs. Stanton’s birthday was
that at the home of Miss Adelaide Johnson.
The "White Nest” as it has been appropri-
ately termed, was decorated upstairs with
the various pictures of Mrs. Stanton, and
her beautiful bust illuminated down stairs
seemed to have added glory for the occasion.
Miss Johnson gave readings, lasting two
hours and a half, tonching the events of
Mrs. Stanton’s life ending with that of her
addresses "The Solitude of Self.” It was
a dignified and beautiful commemoration
and interpretation of Mrs. Stanton and her
work.


PILGRIM MOTHERS’ DINNER.

	FOR many years in New York city the
21st of December has been celebrated by a
set of men commemorating the landing of
the Pilgrims. The celebration is called the
“Pilgrim Father’s Dinner.”  Women were
allowed to sit in the galleries and look on
whilst the dinners were being eaten by the
men.  A few years ago Lillie Devereux
Blake, President of the New York Woman
Suffrage League, inauguarated the “Pil-
grim Mothers’ Dinner” it has been a great
success.  I have been invited to the next
one and hope to be able to go and have
written Mrs. Blake to that effect. I wrote
her that if there ever were a set of women
who ought to be commemorated it is the
Pilgrim Mothers, for in those dreadful days
they not only endured all that the Pilgrim
Fathers did, but had to endure the Pilgrim
Fathers themselves!

	MARRILLA M. RICKER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting for the election of officers
on Friday evening, November 15th. at the
office of the president, E. R. Shipp M. D.
Mrs. Shipp had previously sent out written
invitations to each member of the society
especially requesting her presence, and
after the formal business meeting, the affair
took the form of a sociable.
	The president was in the chair and meet-
ing opened with prayer by Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson. Roll call was answered by
sentiments, original or selected: and when
the name of the treasurer C. C. R. Wells
was called, she responded by presenting to
the president in behalf of the society, and
as a token of love and esteem, a book of
sentiments from various authors. Presi-
dent Shipp did not expect to give another
sentiment so soon but felt to express her
appreciation and thanks for the token which
was a great surprise.
	After roll call the minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved. Then
the minutes of the last annual meeting
were read.
	A motion was made by Honorary Presi-
dent E. B. Wells that the officers for the
ensuing year be elected by ballot. Motion
carried.
	The result was as follows:—E. B. Wells,
president; Nellie C. Taylor, first vice-presi-
dent; H. A. Badger, second vice-president;
E. R. Shipp, recording secretary; Edith
Rossiter, assistant recording secretary;
Ella W. Hyde, corresponding secretary;
Phoebe C. Young, treasurer. Program
Committee for three months, Ruth M. Fox
chairman, Lizzie S. Wilcox and L. D.
Alder.
	The business being transacted, meeting
adjourned until Nov. 30th.
	Some time was then spent in social en-
joyment, conversation being interspersed
with vocal and instrumental music and
recitations. Tempting refreshments were
served on small tables which were adorned
with crysanthemums and bows of ribbon in 
the club colors, pale green and heliotrope.
The room was also decorated with these
colors: and beside each plate at table was a
pretty little souvenir, a card tied with rib-
bons of the club’s colors, and bearing the
following inscription:
	MY CONGENIAL FRIENDS
	OF THE
	U.W. P. C.
“As steel sharpeneth steel, so does the companionship
	of a friend brighten the intellect."
The spirit in congenial air
	Ascends to greater heights,
The mind grows broad, and bright and fair,
	While thought takes lofty flights.
The soul expands and conquers wrong,
	Fond hearts more softly beat;
True friendship breathes an endless song
	To make our joy complete.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15th, 1895.
	The stanza, being original and a true ex-
pression of Mrs. Shipp’s feelings, found a
ready response in the hearts of her guests.
LIZZIE S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


THE annual convention of the National-
American W. S. A. will be held in Wash-
ington Jan. 23-29.


A HAPPY PARTY.

Publisher Woman’s Exponent:
	WE send this small article to you, hop-
ing that you will insert it in your paper.
It was a beautiful morning and the sun
sent forth its warm rays over the earth,
when the people of Farr West met with the
Relief Society for the purpose of surpris-
ing their much esteemed secretary, Sister
Christene Hegsted, President M. A.
Stephenson in charge of the affair.
	The people all marched into her residence
and were greeted very kindly, by the much
surprised sister, while tears of joy moisten-
ed the eyes of every one present. The
house of Sister Hegsted was filled to over-
flowing, so they proceeded to the meeting-
house, where a large table was spread with
many of the luxuries of life, after which a
program consisting of songs and recitations
was rendered in a very pleasing manner,
by some of the young ladies of the ward.
This was followed by a speech from Presi-
dent M. A. Stephenson, “sisters we have
met today for the purpose of showing our
respect to our secretary, who has so faith-
fully served for the past fourteen years, and
she may rest assured, that we do appreciate
her labor.
	She has been called to preside over the
Young Ladies Association, and we wish
her success in her future labors,” and a
hearty vote of thanks was tendered her.
A nice shawl was then presented to her, by
the members of the Relief Society, after
which she, herself, made a few remarks and
tendered her resignation as secretary, and
thanked the sisters for their kindness to-
ward her.
	Some very encouraging remarks were
made by Bishop W. F. McEntire and a few
brethren present. Benediction by P. C.
Stephenson.
Yours Truly,
	M. J. Rawson, Sec.
Farr West Oct. 28, 1895.


SONYA KOVOLEVSKY.

	This is a handsome and interesting vol-
ume published by the Century Company,
New York. It is the authorized American
edition of a work which, we believe, has ex-
cited a great deal of interest in Europe. It
contains two parts. In the first the gifted
Russian lady tells of her experiences of child-
hood in her home, and she does this in a
manner that reveals the great genius that
was at her command. Her great power of
analysis reveals the secrets of the heart of
the child, secrets which are all more or less
familiar, or were so at one period of life to
human beings, no matter in what clime or
under what circumstances they grew up to
consciousness of life; but we have never
come across anybody who has so grasped
these thoughts and sentiments in their very
infancy as this remarkable woman does in
her “Recollections.” And she groups them
and shapes them into lovely language pic-
tures with an artistic sweetness and sim-
plicity that shine through even the transla-
tion sufficient to give some idea of the real
worth of the original.
	The second part of the volume contains a
biographical sketch of Sonya by her friend,
the Duchess of Cajonello. In this the
main features of her life are laid before the
public. It is of special interest because the
gifted Russian woman lived at a time,
when there was a general awakening among


the women in that country for emancipa-
tion. She was among the pioneers on this
field and achieved remarkable success, al-
though her sudden death ended her career
before she had realized her aspirations.
She died of broken heart and one of her
last remarks was: “I have had everything
in life except that which was absolutely
necessary to me.” What this absolute
necessity was is easily gathered from her
own “Recollections” as well as from the
Biographical Sketch, and the whole story
is a lesson by which the thoughtful reader
undoubtedly will profit. J. M. S.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of meeting held Aug. 20th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E. B.
Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Oh ye fair
ones.” Prayer by Mrs. Fewson Smith.
Sang, “Our Country.” Minutes of May
meeting read and approved. Roll called,
many subjects were discussed, and questions
answered by the president, who also read a
chapter on the organizations of State Con-
stitutions. Adjourned for one month.
Benediction M. E. Irvine.

	Minutes of meeting held Oct. 15th,
President Ferguson in the chair. Sang,
“In Twilight Hours.” Prayer by Jane
Allbrand. Roll called, minutes of August
meeting read and approved. The president
referred to Mrs. Stanton’s birthday, and
asked Mary P. Silver to report what the
president wished done in the matter, found
the lady very busy, was asked to call again.
Elizabeth M. Price gave her reason for
thinking we should continue suffrage meet-
ings, they were good. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction M. P. Silver.

	Minutes of meeting held Nov. 19th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E.
B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Proud
State of the Union.” Prayer, State Presi-
dent, E. B. Wells. Sang, “Our Country.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
President Ferguson mentioned that we had
sent a telegram to congratulate Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton on her birthday, an-
nounced that this was our annual meeting
for the election of officers, but in talking
over the matter found some who thought
further meetings unnecesary, would like an
expression from members. A number ex-
pressed their views, but all were in favor of
continuing, for another year at least.
Stake President E. B. Wells told the ladies
in regard to the Onyx Box which had been
sent to Mrs. Stanton, regretted more could
not see it. President Ferguson thought we
had better proceed to the election of officers,
which was then done, resulting in the fol-
lowing ladies being chosen. Kate H. Groes-
beck, president; Della W. Eardley, first
vice-president; E. J. MacFarlane, second
vice-president; E. M. Price, third vice-
president; Cassie C. Newman, Secretary;
Mary P. Silver Treasurer. Mary J. Hol-
den, Chairman Executive Board. Martha
Greames, Eliza V. Smith, Martha Baldwin,
Jane Allbrand, members of the Board.
	The new officers took their places. A vote
of thanks was given to the retiring officers,
and other business transacted. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
				M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

THE year decays, November’s blast
	Through leafless boughs pipes shrill and drear.
With warmer love the home clasps fast
	The hands, the hearts, the friends most dear.
On many seas men sail the fleet
	Of hopes as fruitless as the foam.
They roam the world with restless feet
	But find no sweeter spot than home.
Today with quickened hearts they hear
	Old times, old voices chime and call.
The dreams of many a vanished year
	Sit by them at this festival.
Though hearts that warmed them once are cold:
	Though heads are hoar with winter frost
That once were bright with tangled gold,
	Thanks for the blessings kept or lost. 
Thanks for the strong free wind of life.
	However it change or veer,
For the love of mother and sister and wife,
	Clear stars that to haven steer:
For the quenchless lamps of changeless love
	That burn in the night of the dead;
For the life that is, for the hope above,
	Be thanksgiving by all hearts said.
—New York Sun.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING HALF A
CENTURY AGO.

	MORE than half a century ago in a small
New England village where there was only
one “Church” and that was called a meet-
ing house, because to the old-style Puritans,
Church meant the Church of England,
from which their forefathers were dissenters,
Thanksgiving was a state occasion, with all
the ceremonials such a day implied The
meeting house was decorated with ever-
greens from the woods near by, pine 
branches, and hemlock boughs, and long
trailing vines, that keep fresh under the
thick carpet of fallen leaves, with the scar-
let red berries that give such warmth and
tone to the more sombre, everlasting green;
not only the public places were thus orna-
mented, but the dwelling houses of the
villagers; but here one also finds a variety
of late autumn and winter flowers; and
plenty of good substantial well-cooked food
for notwithstanding the widely-diffused
religious sentiment, there are festivities
afterwards, and plenty of feasting. The 
public service in the meeting-house begun
usually at eleven o’clock a. m. and it was
always special; the morning was observed
as sanctimoniously as if it was the Sabbath,
by the Puritans, but when meeting was
over, there was a change, even in the
minister’s family.
	The service in the village meeting house
on the particular day alluded to here, was
very imposing for a small village; the
treble and alto singers were all in white,
with pale green ribbon and white
chrysanthemums, one would suppose to
harmonize with the decorations, the bass
and tenor, wore their usual Sunday suits
with a knot of green ribbon in a button
hole of their vests; a village Yankee, of
the male persuasion, would not have
thought of wearing a flower in meeting,
those were only for girls and women folks;
at this remote date the writer has not the
least remembrance of the sermon, (singers
rarely do have) but the anthem which has
been practised so long beforehand one never
forgets—and this one was “Lift up your
heads, Ye Everlasting gates—And let the
King of Glory in, Who is the King of

[Column 2]
Glory,” and so forth;—but this is of little
consequence compared to other things, that
transpired on such eventful days. In these
rural villages one generally knows what is
going on in other people’s houses, even
though not clairvoyant, to the details of the
dinner; but enough transpired in one house
to make this sketch sufficiently long, and
to give an idea of the olden time, when
those who are grandmothers today were
barely in their ’teens.
	Let me picture an old rambling house,
with low ceilings and great open fire-places,
and high mantel pieces, full to running
over with children, breathless with playing
games—and with calling to one another,
from garret to cellar—running about with
ginger-bread and maple sugar, eating all
day long, and upsetting the whole house,
filling it with noise and scattering crumbs
and dirt over the well-kept floors and fur-
niture. All the scolding and fretting of
young Mamas’ and Aunties’ of no avail—
while sedate and dignified the older mem-
bers of the family looked on and took no
note of the uproar, except to say now and
then “let the little ones alone, they are
having their fun now.”
	Thanksgiving dinner, at a long table, in
a great square living room, with all the
homely characteristics of the time, passed off
pleasantly; of the many expected, almost
all were present; married sons and daughters
with their children, and the young boys
and girls of this large family; all dressed
for the occasion and in the gayest of spirits
apparently, and yet there was somehow a
tinge of subdued melancholy, only pre-
ceptible to those of prophetic temperament.
The day wore away, the children tired out
with play, were put in bed and the older
members grouped around the huge glowing
fire of pine knots, the blaze flickering and
glimmering in the great square room, cast-
ing dark shadows in the corners, and
against the paneling, making one feel that
such is an hour adapted specially to telling
weird stories, and singing sentimental
songs. Plenty of stories were told of ad-
venture, of wonderful escapes, by sea, and
by land, stories of the ships that went
down, and soldiers killed in battle, ghost
stories and tales of haunted houses, real and
imaginary intermingled with songs such
as “Black eyed Susan,” “The Soldier’s
Tear” “The Soldier’s Dream,” and many a
characteristic love song as well.
	Midnight found them all sitting singing
around the dying embers, the pale light of
the lamps only revealed paler faces, for they
were well aware that on the morrow they
must separate, and naturally the thought
comes, “When shall we all meet again,”
which was suggested in trembling accents
by the mother of this large family—but try
as they would and did, they could not quite
suppress the saddened feeling that came
after this comparatively happy day. And
would it have been even comparatively so,
if either one could have peered into the
future? Alas, No! Of all that met on that
Thanksgiving day, the few who still remain
are widely scattered, having but little in
common, save the remembrance of child-
hood and early life, and the tie of kindred
which is never quite dissolved however far
apart lives are divided.
	Some have fallen asleep to wake no more
in this world, and some now far advanced
in years—live on in a green old age peace-
fully awaiting the summons which comes
alike to rich and poor, high and low. Two

[Column 3]
brave stalwart men (one only a baby then)
gave their lives to their country, and died
on the battle field, in the Civil War. Oth-
ers more fortunate (perhaps) were wounded
and suffered pain, and hardship, but still
live to tell the story of their many encount-
ers and their well-earned honors. These
were the young men and boys--but what
of the women, and the girls? Scattered,
married, widowed, some with large families,
and others with small ones, and still others
sleeping the sleep that knows no waking.
Were I to tell you all, it would indeed be a
romance in real life with plenty of incidents,
embellished with the charms that we
imagine only abound in fiction.
	Don’t fancy, however, that all these
young people remained in the Old Bay
State----Oh, no indeed! They have been to
the Islands of the sea, have sailed around
the world in great ships to far off India,
and eaten raw fish on the South Sea Islands,
have told us since of the beautiful long-
haired tatooed women of New Zealand,
and of the darker, stouter, plainer ones of
Madagascar. They do not all believe in
one religion, notwithstanding their Puri-
tanical teaching. Some are still Congrega-
tionalists however, and still keep Thanks-
giving after the former day manner; and
others have embraced widely different
faiths.
	But there is a chain known to some of
those, who sat around the fireside in that
rambling old house on that Thanksgiving
day in the “long ago” that will bring that
family group and many another together
again in the great future, father, mother,
sons and daughters, with all their numer-
ous posterity however widely separated,
and whether they have died in foreign
lands, or at home, or even been buried in
the depths of the ocean. And for this
precious boon, the Everlasting Gospel, with
its powers and blessings, on this Thanks-
giving day—there is abundant cause for re- .
joicing, even though the house is lonely
and the heart sad with memories of the
days that have been, when happiness and
mirth abounded, and sweet voices now for-
ever hushed, were wont to make such
music as we shall never know again on
earth, and yet these same sweet faces, we
see as ’twere through the mist of falling
tears, and the voices echo in the stillness,
until we fancy, the curtain of the unseen is
lifted, and we are passing into the unknown.
						AUNT EM. 
November 28th, 1885.


MRS. ELIZABETH PRESTON DAVIS,
daughter-in-law of Hon. John Davis, is at
work on her calculations of the ephemeris
of the sum for 1900 while keeping up a
special conrse of study in Johns Hopkins
University.
	The Empress of Germany led her own
regiment of cuirassiers, of which she is colo- 
nel, in the grand military review which oc-
curred at Krekow last March. The report
says that the Emperor was astounded as
she galloped by followed by her regiment, 
and when she was returning the Emperor
met her half way and shook hands with
her. The performance was greeted with
the wildest enthusiasm by the spectators.
This was of course perfectly womanly and
proper, but if the Empress should join the
Frauenbevergung, what would the Em-
peror say?—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
	one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
        regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
    	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

          SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1895.


[Column 1]
FAITH IN THE FUTURE OF UTAH.

	SOME matters pertaining to the new state,
and the state of affairs in the new state, are
being discussed very fairly by women as
well as men, and why not? Women may
not be considered capable of judging impor-
tant issues and questions pending, that in-
volve property rights, individual rights and
marital rights, as well as rites; but they
have quite as much at stake, and perhaps
even more, for women have greater concern
with home and its relations to the state and
with children, and the homes are what the
nation is made up of principally and there
would be no nation if there were no children.
The class of people who migrate, and have
no settled homes are not a nation, they are
only a tribe; women then if so deeply in-
terested should qualify themselves to dis-
cuss intelligently, every question, which
pertains to the life and being and welfare of
this nation, and other nations; they should
acquaint themselves with geographical con-
ditions of country, especially their own
country, as well as other matters, that make
up the sum total. To be ignorant of these
things is to be at the mercy of other people,
and there is very little excuse for ignorance
in this day and age of the world in our free
and enlightened country. There are books
and magazines and newspapers everywhere
and on all subjects, and one is never too old
to learn while one lives.
	And now that women are so soon to as-
sume the responsibilities of the elective
franchise, it becomes a sacred duty to in-
form themselves upon the grave questions
of the times in which they are living. It
is not necessary to make it a public matter,
or to actively participate in public life most
women shrink from that, there are other
methods and ways of studying, and every
sensible wide-awake woman should avail
herself of the best opportunities possible to
her, or within her reach, to look into things,
and get at least a general idea of the gov-
ernment under which she is living and how
its affairs are conducted. 
	The women of Utah should not be be-
hind those of the neighboring states, where
equal suffrage is enjoyed and exercised; and
we have noted with great satisfaction (and
some little pride in the fact also) that our
sisters both in Wyoming and Colorado have
displayed considerable ability, and a good
degree of tact in the part they have taken
in the state affairs.
	It is a source of regret to those who are
specially interested in equal suffrage, that
women were not permitted to take part in

[Column 2]
the first Legislature of the New State, and
if the members elect are wise in their policy,
they will show some consideration for wo-
men in their deliberations when they
meet previous to the Legislative session
proper.
	There are appointive offices in which com-
petent women could do good work, and es-
pecially on all boards of education, of char-
ity and of reformatory institutions. It is
properly woman’s province to assist in
these matters, and even in some of the older
and conservative states where women have
not the ballot, appointments have been
given to women to take part with men in
such places. Certainly the men of Utah
who have been elected to occupy the
highest positions in the gift of the people,
will be just and magnanimous enough to
recognize women without being appealed
to personally; if they do not they will
greatly disappoint one half of the citizens
of this new state, who next year will cast
their votes for the men who have shown
that they would stand by the platform of
principles upon which they are elected.
Women in such positions as educational
charitable and reformatory should be
selected because of the fitness, adaptability
and capabilities for the place or places and
not because of party affiiliations; and when
the time comes that woman’s votes are
counted it is sincerely to be hoped, that they
will make this non-partisanship in educa-
tion, etc., one of the reforms, for which
they will exert their utmost influence.
	The first few years under Statehood will
undoubtedly be fraught with greater inter-
est to all the citizens of Utah than one can
comprehend beforehand. There is a destiny
for the great, West, which has been pre-
dicted by wise men and which is daily be-
coming more widely apparent that must be
fullfilled; and the generation now growing
up have this work to perform; and women
will be participants as well as men; there-
fore the education and growth of knowledge
on all progressive matters should be equal,
and in this way greater historical epochs
may be consummated, than where only
men do the planning, and thinking and
active work.
	“Westward the course of empire wends
its way!” will become more and more
the theme of the poet, and the historian, as
well as the statesman, and the leaders of
the people. Cities will be built up in the
now barren regions, and a higher state of
cultivation than has ever yet been known
will be the glorious future of the people of
the intermountain states: and they will yet
solve the most difficult problems that agi-
tate the world of mankind today.
	All that has ever been predicted of the
future fame and success of Utah, will be
more than realized and perchance during the
next decade. There should be no fear in
the hearts of the people, but a firm faith in
the providences of the Almighty, who will
not fail that people, who put their trust in
Him.


[Column 1]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 2nd, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder. Continued by sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Sister Alder was
called upon to act as secretary. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.

[Column 2]
	President Horne having arrived said she
was glad to meet with us again, said'
“this is a day when we should be as wise
as serpents but harmless as doves. We
should remember the teaching of Jesus,
how he walked and talked with his disciples, ’
yet they did not understand him. We are ,
responsible for our own actions. This is a -
time that Satan is working hard to over-
throw the saints. He and his emissaries,
are wide awake. Sisters becalm, we know
the right will triumph, and let us say “The.
Lord’s will be done.” Do we rely upon
God for grace? Let us watch and pray.
We must be wise and not let our sympathy
run away with our judgment. We should .
be just also. Do good to all but know
what the Gospel requires. The Gospel is
here and is free to all, shall we descend to
the level of those who reject it?
	Sister Peterson, bore her testimony, knew
the Gospel was true, and prayed to be stead-
fast to its principles.
	One sister in the congregation spoke of
the blessings of God to her, had worked in
His house for the dead. There is no true
happiness except among the saints of God.
	Another sister bore her testimony, always
rejoiced in this work. Be faithful, for the
stone from the mountains will crush all
other things, as it rolls forth. Let us
strengthen the hands of onr brothers and
sisters.
	Sister Laker said she put the kingdom of
God first. Pray God to bless all my sisters
and the brethren.
	Sister Morris, felt paid for coming to
meeting this afternoon. This is a day'of
trial, we came here to serve God. His
kingdom takes all. The weak the strong,
all can who wish to serve Him and keep
His commandments. The Lord is no-
respector of persons. We gain the truth,
but we cannot give it. All must seek for
it. I pray God to strengthen the sisters
who preside over us.
	Sister Julia Pack enjoyed herself in the
work of God, “I still feel firm in the work,
I desire to be true, and be faithful? We
need the Spirit of God, to have faith and
may we overcome in the end.!
Sister Hazen, “These meetings are a
source of joy to me. I feel at home, here,
I pray the Lord to strengthen us. The 
Lord blesses those who desire to serve
Him.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb, “I have been ",
in the Church many years, but never saw
a more momentous time than it is now.
Let us seek the Lord continually for wis-
dom. May peace and quiet be restored
again. In the Temple of our God there is
peace. Let us go there and labor. Get
the influence of that house, and take it
home with us. We need the spirit of love
and union. Let us meet together often and
may none of us go astray.”
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony, prayed for the spirit of God to
lead her at all times. Another sister, was
thankful that she was in the Church, never
doubted that this was the Church of God.
Desired to be worthy to be a child of God.
	Sister Julia Samson: “A time is coming
that we shall have to stand shoulder to
shoulder. We have no idea what is before
us. We should pray for God to strengthen 
us. The blessings promised to us (if we
are faithful) we can only gain in the end,
if we enjoy the Holy Spirit we have con-
tinual peace.
	Sister Alder bore her testimony and de-


sired to be faithful.
	Sister Phillips asked the aid of the Lord,
that she might do the work for some of her
dead, related a dream concerning the dead.
	This is a day that those who are not of
Israel will be sifted out.
	Closing remarks by President Horne.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Our God we raise to thee.” Benediction
Sister Elizabeth Paul.
	L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
will be held Saturday, December 14th,
1895, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
rooms in this city meetings commencing
at 10. a. m. and 2. p. m. It is urgently re-
quested that a representative from each
society in the stake be present, as verbal re-
ports are desired. A cordial invitation is
extended to the public.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last business
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, a quo-
rum being present, it was decided that the
annual report of the Society should be made
in February, therefore instead of dating
from the first day of January to the last day
of December inclusive, reports will be here-
after from February to February of each
year. This year reports must date from
the first day of January 1895, or otherwise
a correct record could not be
kept. Secretaries should be careful and
exact in conforming to this official notice.
All reports should be forwarded to the of-
fice of the Secretary, Constitution Building
Salt Lake City, not later than the 20th of
February.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


STATE W. S. A. OF UTAH.

	THE W. S. Association in the several
counties, in this Territory are hereby re-
minded that the memberships are due this
present month, and the State President has
been notified that the entire membership
must be sent on to the treasurer of the
National American W. S. A. otherwise we
shall lose our votes in the Convention dur-
ing the year 1896. Officers are urged to be
as diligent as possible in collecting and for-
warding the money with the names and
addresses of all paid up members to the
Treasurer Ella W. Hyde 246 W. 2nd South
St. Salt Lake City. These lists of names
and addresses must be certified to by the
President and Recording Secretary of the
respective auxiliary W. S. A. The State
President also requires a concise report of
the year’s work in each county to be for-
warded to her address, duriug this month in
time to include it in the yearly report which
must reach the Secretary of the N. A. W.
S. A. before January 1st 1896.
	E. B. WELLS, President.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
ETERNITY OF GOD.
	AT the Latter-Day Saints’ hall, 48 Sands
street, Elder S. W. Richards spoke yester-
day upon the “Eternity of God and the Im-
mortality of the Soul of Man,” quoting
Isaiah XL 12-14. Evidences of the ex-
istence of an intelligent being whom the
Christian world call God, he said, are so
numerous that to most intelligent minds
there is no doubt of this great ultimate fact.
They are discoverable in the creation of the
earth and of man to dwell upon it, demon-
strating an intelligence, wisdom and power
not possessed by man or any combination of
men. The idea of such a being as the
creator or organizer of material things has
existed among men since dwelling upon the
earth, and He must have existed before the
creative work was done, making Him, as
relates to earth and time, a being of eternity,
not limited by time as measured unto man.
He was before time and will be after time
—from everlasting to everlasting; un-
changeable, possessing and exercising at-
tributes that endure “while life or thought
or being lasts or immortality endures.”
Having accepted this fact as one which
consciousness approves, it becomes desir-
able to learn what relationship man sustains
to such an allwise, infinite and eternal God.
We are told that man’s body was formed in
the likeness and image of his maker—like
God’s body; that the spirit of life by which
it was quickened came from the same
source, and when thus animated the body
and spirit united became a living soul, and
that this creator God is the Father of the
spirits of all flesh; that when the spirit and
body are separated by death the spirit re-
turns to God, who gave it, while the body
returns to dust, from whence it came. The
fact that the spirit of man came from God
and shall return to him again proclaims the
eternity of the spirit. But what of the
body? Is the soul of man to be eternally
lost by an eternal separation of spirit from
the body? If so, then the work of God in
creating man is frustrated—made void by
the power of sin, and death has triumphed.
This cannot be, for it is written the grave
shall have no victory, death no sting.
Therefore, it must needs be that the spirit
and body be again united to become a liv-
ing soul, and in a state where there is no
death. In this state and condition it is im-
mortal, and the immortality of the soul is
accomplished.
	But who is to bring to pass this resurrec-
tion or reunion of the body and spirit? Not
man; he has no power to accomplish this.
it must be some one who has all power,
both in heaven and on earth—in heaven for
the spirit’s sake and on earth for the body’s
sake. This work can only be done by one
who is free from sin and over whom death
has no power. It must be the work of a
Redeemer, a Savior from this condition of
death, and this was accomplished by Jesus
Christ, who came to earth, died as men die
then arose from the dead and established
the resurrection or reunion of the spirit and
body for all men; as it is written that as in
Adam all died so in Christ shall all be made
alive; and the decree has gone forth that
this mortal shall put on immortality, this
corruption shall put on incorruption, and
the mission of Jesus shall restore all men
who ever lived to the condition of living
souls, and bring them again into the
presence of the Father to be judged for the
deeds done while living souls in the body.

[Column 2]
In the condition of immortality those who
have kept the law of God shall receive glory
and happiness forever, while those who
have rebelled against God and denied the
efficacy of the atonement shall go away to a
condition of misery and wretchedness, such
as their sins have justly merited, as shall be
determined by Him whose judgments are
just to all men.
	The programme of human existence was
devised from the time before the world was,
that here in a state of trial man might
prove his fidelity to God, the truth and
right and become developed in all the at-
tributes of a godly character, which at-
tributes have been transmitted and inherited
as a legacy from the Father to His children,
and all this that the children may become
like the Father, and in their turn know as
He knows, love as He loves and possess as
He possesses, kingdoms and thrones with
etemal lives, being made kings and priests
unto God to reign with Him forever.
	S. W. RICHARDS. 
	Brooklyn Eagle, Oct. 28th, 1895.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

L.
[Concluded.]
	“EDWARD, my boy, I look upon you al-
most as my own son” said Mr. Barrington,
“otherwise I would not open my heart to
you, but I feel assured you will not betray
my confidence. You already know some-
thing of my history, that I grew up with-
out love, or tenderness from any relative,
I was educated by my uncle, whom you
knew, but he had never even seen me, nor
did he know aught of me except from his
agents in London through whom I received .
my allowance. I came to America on
board the ship on which your father’s,
sister and husband,her cousin and husband,
Dr. Bland, were fellow passengers, and
made their acquaintance; your father was
at that time in foreign lands with Rob Har-
rison (my mother’s brother) who found me
here on his arrival, he was the favored
suitor of your grandfather Hilliard’s wife,
your Aunt Anna’s mother, but through a
conspiracy which has never quite been un-
raveled he lost her, and she became the
wife of Sir Edward. On returning from
his wanderings abroad he met your aunt at
a ball in London and was so struck by her
resemblance to his former sweetheart, and
cousin Clarice Courtney, that he obtained an
introduction, and voluntarily acted as a sort
of self-appointed guardian ever afterwards;
gave her away at the time of her marriage,
and so on. His intention then was to re-
main in England, but somehow he became
strongly attached to Miss Conway, who
was then acting as chaperone to Miss Hil-
liard (Lady Anna) and learning that she
was engaged to Dr. Bland, he decided to
go abroad again, believing fate was against
him in love affairs, and realizing your father
needed experience in the new position he
had been born to, though he knew it not
until his father’s (Sir Edward’s) death, he
decided to continue his wandering life, and
gave himself up wholly to travel, and such
enjoyment as one finds in new places, and
among fresh scenes. Finally from some
sudden impulse, he returned, to find every-
thing changed, and he also found me—the
rest you know except my own particular,
part in the life drama of the people we have 
talked of, which in some instances is more
of a tragedy.”


[Column 1]
	“I am naturally, I think, what some
people designate a religious devotee: I fully
intended when I was ordained to the
ministry to consecrate my life and talents to
the work, and with other dissenters em-
barked for America, where freedom of re-
ligious thought was unrestrained. I have
preached many years, and expect still to do
whatever may seem my duty in this respect
while I live. I never meant to let any-
thing, or any person come between me and
my profession; and I never have (save for a
few days once) but to proceed. You will
pardon my weakness, for I too was young
then, and one cannot quite control one’s
feelings even though a minister.”
	“But ministers marry except Roman
Catholics, uncle Sidney,” said Edward.
	“To be sure they do, but I had grown
up so apart from women, that I was not
like other young men, and my profession
was all in all to me:I almost worshipped
Anna Walton in a certain sense and she re-
turned my affection; but she was another
man’s wife, and therefore sacred, no
thought of making her mine, ever entered
my heart, nor her’s I am sure, for she was
devotion itself to Maitland Walton.”
“Then it was not my Aunt Anna you
were in love with as I had already gussed?”
“No, Edward it was not, and you must
not be shocked when I tell you who it was.
After the death of Lady Anna and of Dr.
Bland, when Mrs. Bland was so lonely and
in great need of sympathy, I was for a time
almost constantly in her company; she is
very fascinating, and has wonderful power
over those with whom she is associated, no
doubt you have heard, she was the only
person who possessed any real influence
with your grandfather, the Baronet. Is it
strange then that a young man, even though
he were a clergyman should have unwilling-
ly yielded to this peculiar charm of mind
and heart? I was not aware of the state of
my own feelings, until I was openly ac-
cused by some of my church members.
Then I was overwhelmed with the thought
forced upon me, and besought the Lord in
prayer; fear lest I had betrayed to Mrs.
Bland a secret, I myself had not realized
until then, humiliated me, until I was men-
tally ill. The Lord was very merciful to
me, and helped me to bear my sorrow alone.
I felt sure Mrs. Bland esteemed me as a
friend and brother and it comforted me to
think so; she had great need of some one
to whom she could speak confidentially. I
could not endure that she should think any
selfish motive had induced me to sympathize
with her in her loneliness. Yet my love
was none the less real, though it had stolen
upon me unawares.
“Very soon after—and while I was still
struggling with my pent-up emotions, Lord
Walton came back bringing his mother
with him and everything was changed.
It seemed providential—for as you know
later on my uncle returned, and then I
learned from his own lips, how he had
loved Jane Conway; and had gone abroad,
to try and forget, had taken your father
with him partly as a sort of tie between
himself and the family, and partly because
of his companionship—for he was an at-
tractive man in all endearing qualities.
My uncle wooed and won Mrs. Bland, and
O, how thankful I was, that I had never
spoken to her of my feelings. Had my
uncle returned and found me a suitor for
the hand of one he had loved, we could
never have been friends; as it was we were

[Column 2]
bosom companions. I myself solemnized
the marriage; and no one knew my secret.
I often trembled lest by voice, or manner I
should betray it. All these years it has
slept as it were until now; I have never
spoken before to any one. You Edward
seem to be more alone than other boys—
and my sympathy for you is greater because
of it, though to be sure Mrs. Harrison is
very much attached to you, yet I can see as
you do, that she has decided views against
intermarriages of relatives. I do not know
whether in your case these scruples can be
overcome. Conway took her by storm, he
has the same sort of masterful spirit, as
his mother, and as your grandfather. She
was compelled to submit in that case, but
in another similar one, I fear she would be
more unwilling still, and you are so en-
tirely different.”
	“Uncle Sidney can’t you intercede for
me, I know my aunt has great confidence
in your advice will you speak for me? I
am as truly an American in feeling and
sentiment as you are, I shall never return
to England, she need not fear that. I am
sure Clarice loves me, and we shall always
be near you—and with Aunt Jane. I
would ask Conway to intercede for me, but
I cannot approach him; he has nothing in
common with me, we are so different, but
you uncle Sidney surely you will succeed if
you attempt it, and who knows but in
pleading my cause you may have the
courage to tell your own story?”
	“No Edward, I am not so conceited as to
think Mrs. Harrison would ever think of
me except as her spiritual adviser, and a
friend of the family, I wonder at myself
whenever I dare to look into my own heart.
This conversation must never be repeated;
and you must not upon any account, or in
any way or at any time refer to it.”
	“It has given me great courage, to hear
what you have suffered and I can see how
brave and true you have been to your bet-
ter nature, it makes me feel how weak and
foolish I am, and but for your wise teach-
ing, and heroic conduct always, I should be
less manly than I am, I owe much to you
and to my Aunt Jane—that is why I can-
not bear to grieve her, or to go contrary to
her wishes, but if I cannot gain her consent,
in this matter, I shall never be good for
anything.”
	“So you think now my boy, but you can
rise superior to any obstacle if you will but
be determined, and put your trust in One
above, and take hold of some useful em-
ployment which will occupy your undivided
attention.”
	“I will speak to Mrs. Harrison in your
behalf the first good opportunity, but you
must not be too sure of my success; I know
how unhappy it will make her, to have
another marriage in her own family as it
were.”
	Sidney Barrington sought an interview
with Mrs. Harrison not many days after
his talk with Edward Hilliard, and found
her bitterly opposed to the uniou of “these
two children” as she called them. But she
considered the matter carefully as she
promised Mr. Barrington she would, and
after much deliberation and great persis-
tency on the part of Clarice who was very
determined, she permitted the marriage to
take place, not however withont many mis-
givings as to its propriety. It was very
evident to her friends and neighbors that
in her heart she wholly disapproved of it,
and in fact that she was sorely disappointed
in the marriages of her family.

[Column 3]
	Events of importance followed each other
in the years just subsequent to the marriages
in Mrs. Harrison’s family, and it was well
for even this brave-hearted, strong minded
woman that she had a friend like Sidney
Barrington to stand by her through trials
and difficulties, ever true as steel,ever hope-
ful, ever ready to strengthen her to endure
and point with faith in the future; for
though he had not the prophetic nature
she possessed yet he had that quality of
tenderness for all human woes, that tacit
sympathy never obtrusive, but ever helpful
to the sorrowing and those who suffer.
	Conway Bland became in time a man of
influence in the community and was highly
respected and useful, in fact quite celebrated
in his profession, and his mother was justly
proud of his attainments. His wife was
strikingly beautiful as her mother had been,
and their children were all that could be
desired.
	Edward Hilliard had never been
physically strong and gradually his health
failed, sometimes the physicians advised
him to go to Italy but that seemed almost
impossible with a wife and child, and Mrs.
Harrison could not consent to part from
them: love and gentle nursing with the
best medical skill could not save him, and
ere three years had elapsed from the date of
the marriage Clarice was left a widow. It
was good for her that she had the little one
to take her attention, for she was inconsol-
able with grief.
	Dr. Bland, Anna Walton and now Ed-
ward Hilliard were laid in the grave-yard
among the pines near the New England
coast, where the sea makes mournful music
not far off.
	While the family were plunged in sorrow
by the sad death of Edward Hilliard, who
should arrive to surprise them, without
even sending a message beforehand but
Kate Walton the great aunt of young Mrs.
Bland. It was a happy circumstance for
them all; it diverted their minds from the
affiction and loss which was very heavy.
Miss Walton was very cheery, and had
come for a change, she was tired of every-
thing, and after running the gauntlet of
seasides, summer resorts, and winters in
London, and Paris, bethought herself of
America and her grand-niece, and as she
said fearing if she wrote and asked permis-
sion, they would “think her a tiresome old
maid,” and perhaps say it was not con-
venient, she decided to take them unawares.
"And now I’m here” she said, one day
soon after her arrival, “you must make the
best of it.” And really she made herself
very agreeable; she had become quite a
sensible person, not at all like her former
self; and as she knew the history of the older
members of both families and even Jane
Conway’s mother the sister of Sir Edward
Hilliard, and many of the love affairs of
these people which had been a sort of hid-
den mystery, she was never tiresome and
the young people became somewhat familiar
with the family history, a generation or
two back. Miss Walton brought with her
from Walton Hall some old letters of Sir
Edward’s written to Lady Walton when
she was Helen Leigh and a queer old locket,
set with pearls, containing his picture when
a young man: these she gave to Mrs. Har-
rison saying, “I think Anna should have
her grandfather’s picture, but the letters
you may destroy, they belong to another
age.” Mrs. Harrison knew more of this
affair than the letters betrayed, but she
kept her own counsel—she had heard the


[Column 1]
story both from her uncle, and Lady Wal-
ton. What a book this woman might have
written, what incidents, what tragedies por-
trayed. Miss Walton was pleased with
America and stayed on and on busying
herself with Anna’s children like Mrs. Har-
rison and taking a deep interest in their
family affairs. She was as much impressed
with Mr. Barrington as the other members
of the family; and though she could not
quite accept his peculiar doctrines "being
too intensely English,” as she thought, yet
she always loved to listen to him when he
spoke in public, which he only consented
to do occasionally. Thanks to Miss Wal-
ton who brought with her across the sea all
the legends of the old castle, even to the
ghost stories and repeated them to the
young people, so that they became familiar
topics and were handed down from one
generation to another. Clarice made her-
self famous in literary work a tendency she
had inherited from her father Robert Har-
rison, and some of her writings are said to
have been very strong and forcible for the
day in which she lived and flourished, and
her poetical effusions tender, sympathetic
and fanciful. She never married again but
devoted her life to her mother and son, dy-
ing before her mother, who after her death
never seemed to have the same enjoyment
in affairs she had always hitherto mani-
fested.
	Meantime a family of young folks grew
up and married some of them becoming
quite distinguished, including Edward
Hilliard the son of Edward and Clarice and
grandson of Clair, and strange enough as
fate would have it, he chose one of the
Doctor’s daughters, a far-off cousin, beauti-
ful as a summer dream, but nevertheless of
the same kin; another grievous trial for his
grandmother, who had set her heart upon
his following her advice in reference to
marriage.
	All the characters mentioned have long
since been gathered home, into the un-
known, and sleep securely their last long
sleep. Jane Harrison learned of Sidney
Barrington’s attachment some years before
her death,through Kate Walton in whom he
confided on an occasion when she had in-
quired why he had never married or if he
had been ‘‘crossed in love in early youth.”
	He replied that he had never loved but 
once and then unhappily, and as Miss Wal-
ton was very fond of romance and had the
rare faculty of obtaining secret information,
she urged and persuaded him to make a
full confession, which he did; she repeated
the conversation in full to the lady herself
thinking it a good joke. Mrs. Harrison
took it seriously and it made her more
tender and deferential towards her life-long
friend; and her only reply to Miss Walton
was—‘‘It never could have been Kate, I
loved him as a brother but no more, and I
know he has been true without hope of re-
ward, but if he had loved you it might
have been different, I only wish you two
had met before,” Mrs. Harrison was as-
sured, in her own mind, that Kate Walton
had an especial regard for the minister,
though he was young enough to have been
her son. It is a pity to analyze too
definitely the hearts of men and women,
even though they died long ago, that they
were human is doubtless true of all who
have ever lived, and we venture the opinion
that Kate Walton and Sidney Barrington
were no exception to the common rule of
rall the world.
	Miss Walton died in America an aged

[Column 2]
spinster, and was buried beside Lady An-
na—where not long after Sidney Barring-
ton was also laid to rest. Edward Walton died
comparatively young and without heirs, as
the last Lady Walton had no claim upon
the entailed estate, the property was thrown
into chancery the American relatives mak-
ing no sort of protest.
	Of their descendants not much is known
save of one a woman, of like characteristics
to Jane Conway, but she lived in the
nineteenth century though born a few years
before it begun. She knew the history of
her ancestry, and told the stories of the old
castles and great elms and oaks, and parks
and green fields and hedges to her family,
with many incidents of interest not men-
tioned here, and she was proud of the
descent and of the inheritance of good blood,
and an honored name, and especially of the
remarkable woman, Jane Conway,
and this strong-minded prophetic daughter
of their race inherited much of their
nobility, though she had not the wealth to
which she was legally entitled.
	In the early days of the preaching of the
Everlasting Gospel in this dispensation,
this grand woman of refined temperament
and gentle blood, embraced the truth and
cast her lot with the peculiar people who
gathered in the Western States, and there
she commenced to lay a foundation for the
redemption of her noble ancestry, which it
is ardently hoped her posterity will continue,
for it is evident from the records of these
families they were people of destiny.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

WILLARD, BOX ELDER.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	THINKING you had not heard from us
for some time and it being advisable to
write a few lines to your valuable paper, I
do so with pleasure.
	Our Relief Society was reorganized on
the 12th of August, 1895, with our aged
President, Sister M. A. Hubbard, (nearly
eighty years of age) still acting as presi-
dent, she has been our president from the
first, and her trusty counselors and mem-
bers feel to try and make her responsibilities
as light as possible, and are trying to do all
the good they can. There has been some
severe cases of typhoid fever here this fall,
and some of a lighter form, but all are get-
ting better now, for which we are all very
thankful.
	Praying God to bless all who labor in the
good cause.
	We remain as ever your sisters in the
Gospel.
MARY ANN HUBBARD, Prest.
BETHIAH T. WELLS, Sec.

RICHMOND.
	Minutes of the 16th annual meeting of
the Richmond Primary Association, Presi-
dent Harriet Fisher presiding. Singing,
“Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by Sister Sarah
Stocks. Singing “Gather up the Sun-
beams.” Minutes of the last anniversary
were read and accepted. Also the Financial
and Statistical report. The first on the pro-
gramme was a dialogue, entitled the
“Greatest Man,” by Lowell and Hattie
Merrill. Emma Sorensen recited “A
welcome address.” Nettie and Lydia
Schow sang, “Let it pass.” Lawrence
Monson gave a recitation. Caroline and
Annie Anderson sang, “Song of little Ma-

[Column 2]
bel.” Harry Vetty gave a recitation.
Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen gave
good instructions, encouraged the children
in the Primary work. Marian Hendricks
recited “Poverty Plagues.” “Welcome
song” by a class of girls. Sister Hannah
Brower read an original address entitled
“Our Prophet Brigham,” also spoke a short
time. Questions and answers about chil-
dren were answered by a class of small
boys. Libbie and Maggie Johnson sang a
song. Hazel Robinson recited “God sees.”
Stake Counselor Emma B. Pike spoke a
short time giving excellent instruction.
Willie Adamson recited “A boy’s com-
plaint.” Alvaretta and Orella Merrill re-
cited a dialogue entitled “Helping Mother.”
Mertie Harris recited “Every inch a man.”
	Resolutions of respect in loving remem-
brance of Eva Ann Brower were read by
Harriet E. Lawrence.
	“Resolutions of respect in memory of Eva
Ann Brower a member of the Richmond
Primary Association. It is with sadness we
record the death of our little friend Eva,
the beloved daughter of Henry and Annie
Brower who departed this life after a ling-
ering sickness Aug. 29th, 1894, aged ten
years seven months and fifteen days She
was a lovely, dutiful child and held the re-
spect of all who were acquainted with her.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we her
friends and associates hold in remembrance
the life of one whose actions in the past
merit the reward of the faithful, and be it
also,—
	Resolved that in her death our associa-
tion has lost one of its most promising mem-
bers,—
	And be it further resolved that a copy of
these resolutions be given to her parents
and also a copy be placed on the record of
our Primary Association.”
	Bishop William L. Skidmore spoke a
short time counseling the children to be
obedient and do what is right.
	Singing, “We are the children of the
Saints.” Benediction by Counselor Chris-
tian Hyer.
	Minutes of the afternoon session of the
Primary annual meeting, President H. H.
Fisher presiding. Singing love at home.”
Prayer by Sister Mary Allsop. Singing
“Live for something.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the last Primary Anni-
versary were read and accepted. Sarah
Smith recited “June queen of summer.”
Wesley Merrill and Pauline Hendricks
sang, “Children’s day.” Sampson and
Leroy Webb recited a dialogue entitled
“The Deacon.” Effie Tippetts gave a reci-
tation. Questions and answers entitled
“The Church,” were recited by a class of
small girls. Julia and Jessie Hendricks
sang “Bessie Fair.” Bertha Monson re-
cited “The Explosion.” Charlie Webb
and Company sang, “The Mormon boy.”
Sister Mary Allsop recited “The power of
God.” Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen
spoke a short time. Song “I cannot catch
the sunbeams” by a class of small girls. A
dialogue entitled "Learning to smoke,” by
Roy Burnham, Willie Barnett, Elmer Mer-
rill and Bertha Johnson. Erma Griffen
gave a recitation. Inez Rainey and Flor-
ence Pet y sang a song. Flora Burnham
recited “Little hero.” Eva Gridla gave a
recitation. Mrs Belle Petty and company
sang a song. Stake Counselor Emma B.
Pike spoke encouragingly to the children.
President Harriet Fisher thanked all for
their help in making our meeting a success


Singing “Little Feet." Benediction by
Counselor Wallace K. Burnham. 
	HARRIET H. FISHER, President.
MARY C. MERRILL	}
MINNIE D. JOHNSON }Counselors. 
	HARRIET E. LAWRENCE, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
	[Continued.]
	Miss Anthony; Now I want to intro-
duce to you a full-fledged voter, Mrs. Brad-
ford, who was nominated on the Democratic
ticket for State Superintendent of public 
instruction. Now Mrs. Bradford comes to
you not having voted as yet for President,
from a state where it has always been urged
that women would not vote if they could,
but I have been told by an Ex-governor
that in Colorado, Denver, especially, that a 
large majority of the women went to the 
polls and cast their vote; so that settles
that objection that women wont vote.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BRADFORD.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: With Miss 
Anthony and Miss Shaw on the program
were it not from the fact that I am from
Colorado, it would be quite unnecessary for
me to say anything to you; but still I have
an advantage, I can vote, I have voted and
I mean to vote as long as I live, and I love
to vote. (Applause.)
	There are so many things that have been
said against suffrage that in the eighteen
months since we have possessed it, have
been absolutely contradicted in my own ex-
perience, that I think it possible that I shall 
do you the most service if I confine myself
to telling you something about what I
actually know, have actually seen done and 
have done myself. Mr. Roberts, a Demo-
crat, said at the Convention words some-
thing to this effect, I am quoting it: “he
said he thought there would be no objec-
tion to women going to the ballot box
quietly, but the primaries and conventions
and things of that sort would be so ex-
tremely degrading to women. I have taken 
part in primaries, I have taken part in two
conventions, I have stumped that State
twice and I don't feel a bit degraded. The
women in Colorado take a great interest in
politics, many of us a far greater interest
than the men; in fact you know there are
only half as many women in Colorado as
men, yet 60 per cent of the votes last
year were cast by women. I think that is
a pretty good record for the sex who would
not vote if they could. (Applause.)
	It has been said that the women would 
be so extremely partisan and so excessively
excitable. Now I have always heard the
most beautiful tribute to woman was her
power to become a peacemaker, and I sup-
pose the men think she would lose that
lovely quality and become partisan. Now
you know in colorado instead of becoming 
partisan and fighting among ourselves, the
women of one party organized into a state
club or state organization and they said to
the men who had two separate organiza-
tions and yet are called by the same name
and had been in that condition for two 
years and a most disgraceful condition it
was; this State organization of women 
said: "We will organize in every county in
this State, we will recognize all you men by

[Column 2]
the name of the party to which from princi-
ple we belong and which we love and hon-
or, but you don't get a single vote and we
won't sit in a convention until you shake
hands and make up and stop that quarrel-
ing. (Applause.)
	So we stood together and I went out over
the State, in every county in the state and 
the men shook hands, and when they came
to Denver they organized in two separate
conventions as usual and the elected the
women delegates and we went to the morn-
ing sessions, and the afternoon sessions
and we called ourselves by the name of the
party, and not by the name of their faction
and we said they would have to do some-
thing so they came together in one big con-
vention and they said "God bless the wo-
men; they did it!" (applause) So we carry
that most pleasing of all qualities the love
of peace and the power to bring about 
peaci in our political parties, and that is not
the only thing, we know how to be decent
to our political opponents.
	When I was in the Southern part of the 
State a dear friend of mine said to me:
"They are going to give you a reception to-
day and that reception must be at my
house." I replied, "What do you think of
a Democratic reception being given in a 
Populist's house?" And she said, "It
doesn't make any difference, I love you and 
I am going to keep you my friend just the 
same. We should be able to recognize the
good in all parties and to preserve and
maintain the right, to be gentlemen and
gentlewomen, to carry out the beautiful
rule to "do unto others as you would have
them do unto you." So I think our in-
fluence was decidedly good. 
	Men are supposed to be civilized enough
by the influence of women, and in mining
camps men become a great deal better and
more gentle, I went to one place in Colorado
and I was met by a committee and the wife
of the Chairman of the Committee came to
see me shortly afterwards. She said, "My
husband blacked his boots the first time in
his life when he went to the train to meet
you." (Laughter and applause.) We 
taught politeness, we taught the men to be
as careful of the woman politician as of the 
woman in the home, and instead of lessen-
ing our power we had just as much rever-
ence paid to us and the reverence had a 
good deal of solid interior respect behind it
instead of merely outside ceremony.


HELEN KELLER, the deaf and blind girl,
is in New York attending the Wright-
Humason School for oral instruction to the
deaf, and has made such progress that she
is looking forward to entering college.
Those who talk to her can now speak to
her as they would to any one else. She
hears them through her fingers by placing
them on the lips, face and throat of the
person speaking.
	MME. HANNA KORANY, who came to
America as delegate from Syria to the
World’s Fair, has left the country for a
visit to her native land. Her heaith has
been seriously affected by onr climate, but
she proposes to return and become an
American citizen, having taken out her
“intention papers” previous to her de-
parture. Korany was the first woman to
speak in public in Syria, and she has given
many lectures in different parts of her coun-
try. She is famous, also, for her writings,
and is called the “George Eliot of the
East.” She has spoken before many wo-


men’s clubs in the United States, and has
engagements for lectures and articles on
her return.
	“MARCELLA” appears as one of the char-
acters in the December instalment of Mrs.
Humphrey Ward’s novel, “Sir George
Tressady,” in The Century. “Marcella”
is now Lady Maxwell.


IN MEMORIAM.
	The following resolutions of respect were
adopted by the Pleasant Grove First Ward Re-
lief Society in memory of Sister Emeline Richards
who departed this life February 24th, 1895. She
was born June 27th. 1857 and leaves a husband
and six children to mourn her loss, the youngest
being only twelve days old.
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call home Sister Emeline Richards,—
	Resolved, that we deeply mourn the loss of an
active member of the Relief Society, who was
ever willing to assist in all good works, was very
generous, and a friend to the poor. She was a
devoted wife and mother and respected by all
who knew her. We feel to extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved husband, mother-
less children and relatives, and can only point
them to a higher source for consolation in their
hour of need.
	Resolved that these resolutions are entered in
our minutes, a copy presented to the bereaved
family and forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
	PATIENCE ARCHER, President.

			{P. E. BROWN
Committee.	{F. E. STEWART
			{SARAH FOUTZ


LOUISE JOSEPHINE LAPORTE LANG.

[Brief Sketch of Life.]
	LOUISE JOSEPHINE LAPORTE LANG daughter of
Joseph Marie Laporte and Louise Perret, was
born Nov. 8, 1828. at Cluses Savory, France.
	At the age of twenty-two, she went to Geneva,
Switzerland, where she was married to John
Daniel Lang in 1857.
	She was born and raised In the Catholic Faith,
but embraced the Gospel, with her husband, in
the fall of 1863, being baptized by Elder Conrad
Schweitzer, emigrated to Utah with her little
daughter (her husband following the next year)
arriving in Salt Lake City, on the 22nd of Sep.
1869, where she resided until her death; with the
exception of five months, living in Beaver duriug
the winter of 1882—83. Although an invalid for
nearly one year; she died suddenly of hemorrhage
of the lungs, at her residence in the 15th Ward,
Salt Lake City, July 18th, 1895; aged sixty-five
years eight months and ten days.
	She was the mother of three children, two sons
and one daughter.
	She leaves her husband, a daughter and a son
(who is on a mission in Europe) six grand-child-
dren and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	She had been a member of the Relief Society
of the 15th and 17th Wards of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, where she had acted in the
capacity of a teacher.
	While in the “old world,” her door was ever
open as a home to the missionaries and in a hum-
ble way she led a faithful and exemplary life and
died as she had lived, in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	Written by her daughter,
	HORTENSE MARY  JONES.
Salt Lake City Aug. 11th, 1895.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1895. NO. 14.


CONTENTS:

	Ellen Battelle Dietrick—E. B. W. Christmas—
E. S. Are We Worthy—M. E. K. U. W. P. C.
—Ellis R. Shipp. Huntington Emery Co. An
Evening In The Country—E. R. S.	Mrs. Stan-
ton's Birthday In St. George—Cactus. One
Christmas Eve. Twenty-eighth Annual Conven-
tion Of The N. A. W. S. A. R. S. Report—
Nancy H. Allred. In Memoriam. S. L. Co. W.
S. A—Carrie C. Newman. Conference N. A. W.
S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Celebrating Statehood.	Emma
G. Bull. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Revelation—Alice Hoyt Hayes.
The Message Of The Pines—Mary Grant Major.
Ballad Of Lilies—Genevieve Lucile Browne.
The Balance Of Life.


A REVELATION.

I GAIZED on a scene I had known in my youth
	Before through the world I had ranged,
And things were so diff'rent they seemed not the
	same,
And I knew not ’twas I who had changed.

I heard a sweet song I had heard when a child;
	But my heart did not thrill at the tone
It breathed forth no spirit of love and of hope
	And I knew not the change was mine own.

I looked on a picture that filled once my soul,
	And dazzled mine eyes with its sheen,
But gone was the gladness it spoke to my heart
	And I knew not the change was in me.

I clasp the warm hand of a friend I had loved,
	But so diff'rent he seemed and so strange
My hero! I’d worshiped in mem’ry for years
	And I thought it was he who had changed.

I returned to the home of my youth’s happy
	morn,
The same, yet it seemed not the same.
	E’en the walks and the walls had grown narrow
	and small,
Then I knew it was I who had changed.
ALICE HOYT HAYES.


THE MESSAGE OF THE PINES.

Just under my window the delicate plumes
Of the sweet Persian Lilac are swaying,
While out of the midst of a thousand perfumes,
Oh, what are the flower-spirits saying?
Just listen, and lo! if the language you know,
You will learn why the pines are all listening so;

“Come dear golden sunshine, ccme cloak us
	about,
Bronzed bees in your questings fly in and fly out---
Swift breezes caress us, blue skies bend anear,
And smiling take back the dew of each tear.
We live! we exult! Is it pleasure or pain?
Shall we desolate stand in the winter again,
While the pines in their pride fling to blusterings
	rude
The banners they lifted when summer winds
	wooed?”

Through the pines went a murmur, a shivering
	cry,
And I knew they had hearts or they never could
	sigh.
O’er questioners sweet the dark heads bent low,
As they whispered this message; Oh joyous ones
	know
That to live is to die, to have is to lose,


To happiness clasp is to sorrowing choose.
In tender adorning no blossoms are ours,
We never have thrilled to the kiss of the flowers.
We grieve no past glory; oh, sorrows profound,
He never wore garland who ne’er is uncrowned!
MARY GRANT MAJOR.


[Column 1]
ELLEN BATTELLE DIETRICK.

	The sudden and unexpected death of
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick, on the 25th of
November last, resulting from a surgical
operation, was a great shock to those who
knew and loved her. The equal suffrage
cause has lost in Mrs. Dietrick one of its
ablest workers. Educated, cultivated and
refined. Mrs Dietrick was well calculated
to support logically and from the highest
standpoint the principle of equality of sex
in which she so firmly believed and which
she advocated with such courage in the face
of the strongest opposition, yet without
any display of antagonism or personal feel-
ing. William Loyd Garrison in the Wo-
man's Journal of Boston says, “She was
ever ready to break a lance against privilege,
and the frequent provocation to do battle for
her sex prompted her to exceed her strength
and was the proximate cause of her illness.”
	“During the referendum agitation her
newspaper correspondence was excessive.
At the same time she prepared and delivered
a course of lectures, and wrote a yet un-
published book.”
	Contrary to the general idea of women
doing public service, Mrs. Dietrick was a
loyal and devoted wife, and a tender and
sympathetic mother. She leaves a husband
and daughters, to mourn her, to them, ir-
reparable loss; but they will have the
cordial sympathy of all who knew Mrs.
Dietrick’s great worth to the world of
humanity.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a native of Kentucky,
but moved to the North, when she became
deeply interested in active work for women,
and in Boston and its vicinity she found a
congenial and helpful atmosphere. Mrs.
Josephine K. Henry of Kentucky in her
glowing tribute to Mrs. Dietrick says,
“Since she won the title of 'the Daniel
Webster of the suffrage cause’ we Ken-
tuckians, who only loaned her to Mas-
sachusetts, have taken special pride in the
magnificent service Mrs. Dietrick rendered
in the conflict for woman’s freedom,” she
also adds later in her article, “The graceful
symmetry of her charming personality left
not a single angle, while her natural gifts
and mental attainments rendered her at
once the grandest type of American wo-
manhood, and a stateswoman worthy of
presidential honors. With reverent love
we pay this poor tribute to this apostle of
liberty.”
	Several of the Utah delegations of ladies
when in the East have had the pleasure
of knowing this talented and genial lady,
whose wit and brilliancy, as well as her
warm and tender heart and perfect man-
ners, attracted them to her, and they will
have many remembrances of her cordial

[Column 2]
greetings and kind expressions of interest
in Utah affairs.
	Only last winter when in Washington at-
tending the National Council of Women,
the writer recalls with what enthusiasm
she alluded to the near approach of state-
hood for Utah, and inquired as to the
prospects for equal suffrage in the Constitu-
tion. When answered that it was fully ex-
pected, as both political parties had declared
for it in their platform, she spoke enthusias-
tically of visiting here in the near future,
in fact she expected to come with Miss
Anthony and Miss Shaw in May when the
National Suffrage Conference was held in
this city.
	Mrs. Dietrick was a charming woman
and a delightful speaker, she had a good
voice, a fine presence and her language was
simply perfect.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton says, “Those
who knew Ellen Battelle Dietrick best, who
had listened to her scholarly lectures, and
read her logical writings in journals and
magazines of the day, can appreciate her
loss to the public; but none of us can es-
timate the loss of such a presence to her
family and friends.
	We counted Mrs. Dietrick among our
personal friends, we have had a number of
letters from her, and she interested herself
sufficiently in our work to become a sub-
scriber for our little paper, and mentioned
it favorably and most kindly. E. B. W.


CHRISTMAS.

	WAS, or was not the 25th of Dec. the
birthday of Christ? This day could hardly be
Christ’s Birthday as it was the height of the
rainy season in Judea, and shepherds could
hardly be watching their flocks by night in
the plains, some say his birthday is in April,
but it is not known when it is. Yet the 25th,
of December will always be observed as
his birthday.
	The institution of Christmas festival is
attributed to the spurious Decretals to
Telesphorus (136—61 A. D.) The first
traces that can be found of celebrating
Christmas was about the time of the
emperor Commodus (180—92 A. D.) In
the reign of Diocletian,while the ruler was
keeping court at Nicomedia, he learned that
a great many Christians were assembled in
the city to celebrate the birthday of Jesus.
This enraged the ruler, who was not a
Christian, he sent men to close the church
doors and set fire to the building, thus all
the worshippers perished in the flames.
	At this time there was no set day for
observing the nativity of the Savior, some
held it in the month of May and April,
while others held it in January
	In the Roman Catholic Church, three
masses are preformed on Christmas, one at
midnight, one at day break, and one in the
morning.
	The day is celebrated also by the Anglo
Catholic Church—special psalms are sung,
a special preface is made in the communion
service, and the Athanasians creed is said
or sung. The Lutheran church, on the


Continent, also observe Christmas, but the
Presbyterian churches in Scotland, and the
whole of the English dissenters, reject it,
in its religious aspect, as a “human inven-
tion.”
	Within the last hundred years, the festiv-
ities once appropriated to Christmas have
much fallen off. These at one time lasted
with more or less brilliancy till Candlemas,
and with great spirit till the twelfth day;
but now a service in the morning at the
different churches, and a meeting in the
evening composed. when possible, of the
various branches and members of the fam-
ily, is all that distinguishes the day above
others.
	In England, dissenters, as well as church-
men. keep it as a social holiday, on which
there is a complete cessation from all busi-
ness. E. S.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
ARE WE WORTHY?

	YES, this question often arises in my
mind; now since we are called Latter-day
Saints, are we worthy of this name? How
do we compare wiih the former-day Saints?
	I well remember after I believed this
Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught,
and could see plainly it was the same in
every respect, I was about to accept it with
all my heart, I was asked if I could afford
to be called a Saint. I replied “no, indeed!
I would not dare to be called a saint. That
would imply one who was holy and had ar-
rived at perfection.” No this, was a stum-
bling block to me, and I felt to object say-
ing it would be presumption.
	Then I was told by accepting the Gospel
and obeying its laws I would thereby ar-
rive at that state, and become a Saint, just
as the former-day Saints did. Well what
were those laws. Christ’s Sermon on the
Mount, was the beginning, and to love the
Lord with your might, mind and strength,
and love your neighbor as yourself, our
Savior said would include all of the com-
mandments that Moses had received. Then
to read the Epistles of St Peter, James and
John and St. Paul, you will see how great
blessings of the Spirit they gained by ob-
serving these laws and putting them in
practice. I could then see there was a pos-
sibility of becoming a Saint, by applying our
minds to the lessons, and I resolved to
make the effort, feeling encouraged by the
invitation Jesus gave, saying “Take my
yoke upon you and learn of me for my
yoke is easy and the burden is light.” I
then made the effort, it is now over fifty
years, and I find it is even so, when I have
the good spirit, it is a joyful feeling to carry
into practice those laws, but without that
spirit it would have an opposite effect.
	But remember this good spirit is easily
grieved, as our Savior said, “If ye love any-
thing more than me ye are not worthy of
me.” And the Apostle James says if any
man love the world the love of the Father
is not in him: ye can not serve God and
mammon.
	Well since we have our agency to choose
which to love best let us be wise, in making
our choice. I believe a sound mind will
naturally love sound principles best. And
such are the teachings of Jesus the Savior
of the world, and the more we become
acquainted with those principles, the greater
joy it affords, until we feel to explain truly
this is the true riches: because it affords
that dignity and self-respect, with a com-
posed mind, which dignity with the spirit

[Column 2]
of the world would be lacking in composure
of mind. No, with the worldly spirit it
makes one reckless. No, it does not teach
you patience and composure of mind which
the good spirit teaches, also to cultivate
hope, as the Apostle Peter says, “Cast all
your care upon Him for he careth for you.”
And the Apostle James says that “Perfect
love casts out fear, for fear hath torment,”
then let me ask what riches are superior to
this; is it not the true riches?
	Now let me ask, what sensible sound-
minded person could prefer the riches of
this world to that which is taught in the
New Testament by Jesus and His Apostles.
	I feel to regret that the people in these
days are not better acquainted with its
teachings: In my youth we read it in our
day schools, and recited it in Sunday School
It was a book I was so familiar with I could
defend its principles when talking with our
minister who told me saying, “If there be
prophecies they will fail, and tongues shall
cease." Here he stopped, and I finished the
sentence for him saying “and knowledge
shall vanish away. For now we see in
part and hear in part, but when that which
is perfect is come that which is in part will
be done away.” Then he said “who ever
shall add to the prophecy of this book to
Him shall be added the plagues that are
written in this book.” “Yes” I replied,
“that was St. John’s vision. We should
not add or diminish to that which he saw in
his vision. Yet the angel told him saying
‘he should again prophecy before nations,
kings and people.’ Here prophecy comes
again and is called the testimony of Jesus.”
	I always have a feeling of regret that the
Rev Mr. Proll of Utica N. Y. would not
investigate this Gospel: He said “I must
excuse him as he had to visit a sick person,”
and he said I was young and would yet see
the error of my ways and come back. This
was over fifty years ago, but I am more firm
now than then, for that which was my faith
then afterward became a knowledge.
	I must say that I am thankful that the
testament was a school book in my youth,
for through it I became acquainted with
Jesus and his Apostles, and the opposition
they met while they sojourned here. How
often did I wish I could see them and hear
them talk, and now I often wish I could
see the beloved disciple John who is to tar-
ry in this world until Jesus comes again, two
of our people and perhaps more have seen
him and talked to him. It is our duty to
give strict heed to the Gospel that Jesus
our Lord and master gave to his Apostles.
Our prophet Joseph said if we do not, this
will not be a land of Zion unto you. This
we can realize from time to time. And I
would ask is there not danger that we be-
come weary in well doing and take a rest
until our lamps have gone out. Let us
rather take the advice of St. Paul who said
you must be diligent in business and fer-
vent in spirit serving the Lord, then we
will be worthy to be called Latter-day
Saints, will we not?
M. E. K.
Nov. 24, 1895.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting was held Nov. 30th,
1895, at the office of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, President E. B, Wells in the chair.
Opening prayer by Mrs. Z. D. H. Young.
Roll called, members answered with poetical
sentiments from E. R. Shipp.


Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor read a very able
and interesting paper on the life and labors
of Eugene Field and closed with one of
his favorite poems, “Little Boy Blue.”
	Comments on the paper were next in
order. The discussion opened by Miss
Laura Hyde relating a newspaper article,
she had recently read, refering to the
peculiarities of the poet’s nature. His lack
of business tact. How he squandered his
means on novelties—“bought butterflies
instead of paying his taxes.” His nature
being so intensely poetical he could not
dwell on common-place and practicalities.
	Mrs. L. D. Alder spoke of a notable
event of his life. Some twenty-four years
ago he was supposed to have passed from
this mortal existence, but through some
strange intervention he lived again.
	Mrs. H. A. Badger and Dr. E. R. Shipp
each read poems from the same author
Bethlehem Town” and “Singing in God’s
Acre" both showing the powerful pathos
and spirituality of this noted writer.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder then read an
original poem entitled “In the City of the
Dead”
	On motion of Mrs. R. M. Fox the rules
were suspended and the meeting assumed
the form of an informal reception in honor
of the Misses Chase from Boston who were
present on the occasion.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young and President E.
B. Wells made speeches of welcome, and
the guests of honor spoke at length upon
their travels through the old and new world
from Alpine heights to the orange groves
of California from the plains of Colorado,
to the volcanoes of Honolulu, depicting in
eloquent language the grand and interest-
ing scenes witnessed upon such a journey,
closing with a glowing tribute to the
beautiful Salt Lake valley as seen from the
roof of the hotel Knutsford—the mountain
scenery, snow-capped hills—equal to the
Alps, the charming sunsets, the growing
city with its broad streets, the thriving
business blocks, and more than all the
sweet home life of the people, had made
an impression not soon to be forgotten.
	The chairman of program committee
read the program for Dec. 31st and the
session adjourned to meet at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s Dec. 31st, 1895, at 2 p. m.
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


HUNTINGTON EMERY CO. 
Dear Editor:
	ON Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 28th, the
members of the Suffrage Association
gathered at the Huntington Hall, at 2
o’clock p. m. and spread a sumptuous table
with every good thing that the heart could
desire, turkey and pumpkin-pie included,
and about seventy-five people sat down to
the tables and enjoyed a good dinner; after
which we had some very excellent speeches,
toasts and sentiments from both gentlemen
and ladies. In the evening we had a dance
mingled with songs, recitations and a
dialogue on Wowan Suffrage, in which both
sides were shown and in which the ladies
came out victorious. The association is in
a fair condition, there being enrolled twenty
members; we hold meetings twice a month.
Wishing the Suffrage Association success,
we remain yours truly,
MARIA S. CHRISTENSON, President
C. R. RILEY, Vice-President.
BESSIE JOHNSON, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BALLAD OF LILIES.

“Behold us drooping on our stately stalks,
	Fair flowers of grace in rapturous repose;
Plucked in Bermuda from cool, quiet walks,
	And seeking to thy bosom to disclose
That which the vaunting, vain, voluptuous rose
	Could never to thy senses half convey;
A message that with gentle gladness glows!”
The snow-white, soft, sweet-scented lilies say.

“Each flower the flaming fire of passion mocks,
	And bids thy hot hands, trembling, to unclose,
Nor long to quiver in repeated locks
	And clasps, which but so increase desire, with
		those
That sent us---but our mystic music throws
	About thee, mumuring low; love’s dangerous
		lay,
That o’er thee like a day dream dimly flows—”
	The snow-white, soft, sweet-scented lilies say.
‘‘Still e’er of lingering love each blossom talks,
	And tells he holds thee fairer than the snows.
Untouched by human foot, where no man walks,
	He sends thee joy with every breeze that blows,
And constantly with thee his fond heart goes;
	His thoughts are all for thee at dawn of day.
Until the sinking sun portends its close,”
The snow-white, soft, sweet scented lilies say
			L’envoi.
"Oh lady, heed! where this lovely lily grows
	A heart is waiting---has for many a day
For answer from thee, to the words he knows,"
	The snow-white, soft, sweet scented lilies say.
			GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWNE.


THE BALANCE OF LIFE.

I FEAR no more the coming years
		What they may bring.
	Days will be sunless, night bereft of stars;
Mayhap the brightest blossoms of the spring
	Shall first be bound with winter’s icy bars. 
But still beyond the cloud is always light,
The stars are in the sky all night,
And deepest snows are they which hide the bright 
		Green heart of spring.
Not all of life is dreamed away
		In summer skies.
	Time holds a loss, a loneliness for me,
But Hope is strong, and Faith dare not be weak,
	And Love abides, the greatest of the three.
Enough if sweet to-morrow will repay
The disappointment of to-day;
Light follows dark; sun, rain; seas ebb away
		Again to rise.
And if the rugged road of life
		Doth wind around
	The Mountain side where heavy clouds hang
		low.
And, as I climb the pilgrim staff be changed
	Into a cross, still onward would I go!
The peaks of only highest mountains rise
Above the clouds to bluest skies, 
And round the heaviest cross is hung the prize,
		The brightest crown.


[Column 1] 
AN EVENI	IN THE COUNTRY.

	‘‘Put another log on the grate, Dor’thy,
and draw the stockings back a bit so they
won’t burn. Its cold outside and time for
Santa to begin his work,” said Mrs. Parry,
the mother of five children, one cold
Christmas Eve.
	They lived in a little log cabin, just out-
side a small country town and, though they
had very little money. they were happy as
happy could be for what they had was all
their own. Each loved the others dearly
and all were willing to do anything in their
power to make the others happy.

[Column 2]
	Someone was heard at the door, stamp-
ing their feet as if shaking the snow off.
The door opened and there stood Ben, the
oldest boy, with bundles under each arm,
in each hand and sticking out of every
pocket.
	“How quick you were Ben. You’re a
trump, and did you—Yes—I’ll bet you did;
boys at the frisky age of sixteen always do
forget, and I wanted that pink mull for
Grace’s doll dress.”	“O! Dear! What
shall we do?” Cried Dor’thy, apparently
in great trouble.
	Poor Ben had to stand it all, but when
he laid the bundles down and began to open
them, with the assurance from her mother
that she would find something in her trunk
for the dress, Dorathy recovered herself and
came to join in the sight-seeing. This was
the first Christmas she had been allowed, to
stay up and play Santa Claus, so she was
very anxious to see how everything was
done.
	“Now Ben run out and see if your father
is coming. He went up the mountain
a ways to get a tree. Its about time he
was here. As you come back bring that
basket of apples and some popcorn out of
that sack on the top shelf in the cellar.
We must just fly around here if we get
through in time to be in bed when the
children wake. Dorathy, put the molasses
on and don’t let it burn.”	Thus Mrs.
Parry gave her orders and all were set to
work in good ernest.
	“Isn’t my candy getting white” proudly
ejaculated Dorathy as she pulled it with all
her might. “Yes, and aint I getting a lot
of white popcorn. There, that’s enough
stretching, pull it out thin and make it in-
to canes and hurry up so you can help me
thread the corn and cranberries. I got
some in town. Won’t they look jolly on
the tree though?” said Ben.
	Dorathy moulded her candy, ran out and
put it on the bench to cool and started on
the corn. While Mrs. Parry was very
busy sewing the last button on the new
dress she had made for Jane, and making
the doll dress for Gracie’s baby.
	“How lovely!” cried all at once as Mr.
Parry brought the Christmas tree in. “Yes,
its the finest one I ever saw. Wont my
darlings be happy in the morning when
they see how good Santa has been to them,”
answered he.
	The tree was set in the middle of the
floor and all began trimming it. “I’ll start
at the top and you, Dorathy, at the bottom
to put the corn and cranberries on, don’t
pull it too tight—there that’s fine” said
Ben. “Wont it be scrumpious.”
	“Yes, that’s nice” said their mother.
“You two would make a capital Santa
Claus, you do it so quickly. That’s right
in all your walks of life, what you do, do
well but don’t spend too much time at it.
Don’t forget the curly-cues. They are in
the bottom of the cupboard. Tie them
with thread around on the tree and put lots
of apples on, both red and yellow. They
make it look so nice. I can remember
when I was a little girl how proud I felt
when I found a big red apple in the toe of
my stocking, for they were very scarce
where we lived. You children should be
very thankful for all the blessings you en-
joy.” And so they were for together they
answered, “We are with such a good
mother and father.”
	“Put the canes on. They wont need
any strings and Ben bring me those wal-

[Column 3]
nuts from the closet. I know they will be
good with some of that candy. I picked
out the largest ones from the north tree to
save for Christmas,’’ said the Father.
	Finally the tree was finished, the dolls
dressed and set in the tree, the little cart
that Ben had made for Jimmie, put under
it and they were ready to fill the stockings.
“This is the best time of all. Hand me
that little yellow apple it will just fit in the
toe of Gracie's stocking,” said Dorathy.
	“O! Let’s play a joke on Jim It will be
such fun,” said Ben.
	“All right, what shall it be?” answered
Dor’thy. “Well, I’ll tell you, hand me
that little piece of candy and that roll of
paper and some thread. Now you see
we’ll wrap it up and tie it in a knot and
keep doing that till we get a big bundle;
then he’ll think he’s got something great
and keep thinking he will get the last paper
off and then find its only a piece of candy,”
answered Ben.
	“Ha! Ha! That’s the best joke of the
season, won’t it be fun,” cried Dor’thy.
	The stockings were hung in their places
again, a last look taken at the most lovely
tree and they dispersed for the night. But
Dor’thy did not go to sleep, she waited un-
til she thought all were asleep, then crept
in where the tree was and placed three
bundles on it. The first had written on in
large letters “Mother” and contained two
hemstitched handkerchiefs, all her own
work, the next was a slipper case for
“Father,” and the other a pair of mittens
for “Brother Ben”.
	They were small presents indeed but,
given with so much love, I think they were
appreciated as much as anything could have
been.
	Dor’thy crawled into her cosy bed think-
ing, “Well, I used to enjoy Christmas very
much, thinking of all the good things
Santa Claus would bring me, but these
are the happiest hours I ever spent doing
that which will give happiness to others.”
							E. R. S.


MRS. STANTON'S BIRTHDAY IN
ST. GEORGE.
	PURSUANT to the request of Miss
Anthony that all Suffrage Associations ob-
serve the eightieth birthday of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton in some appropriate manner,
the Washington Co. Woman's Suffrage
Association resolved to add their mite to-
ward the general move in that direction.
	Committees were appointed, and a gener-
al invitation issued to all the people in the
vicinity above the age of seventeen years.
Clark's Hall was secured and tastefully dec-
orated with draperies, pictures, evergreens,
and chrysanthemums. At the head of the
hall, a large print of Mrs. Stanton, framed
in chrysanthemums, attracted universal at-
tention.
	President Lavinia Woolley opened the
evening's entertainment with a short speech
of welcome and greeting to the immense
throng of people who had gathered by 8 p. m.
	Mrs Jennie Hardy read an original and
very complete sketch of Mrs. Stanton's life
up to the present time. A fine program of
character and costume songs, suffrage
songs, recitations, etc. interspersed with
dancing, followed. This was kept up until
a late hour, when all dispersed feeling that
they had enjoyed a feast of good things:
and feeling better acquainted with the ven-
erable lady whose name has become a
national by-word, than ever before. CACTUS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,--Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATING STATEHOOD.

	As the time draws near for President
Cleveland to sign the Constitution for Utah
and issue the Proclamation for Statehood,
the manner in which the people are to
publicly celebrate the auspicious event be-
comes a popular and serious question.
That all parties will unite in the demonstra-
tion is a foregone conclusion. There could
be no other satisfactory manifestation of the
appreciation of such a grand and glorious
event. And one of the chief pleasures will
assuredly be the equality that it will bring
to all the citizens of the new state. No
longer can Wyoming and Colorado boast of
their superiority in this respect, though they
rank first and second, but Utah will bring
the third equality star to complete the trio.
Already some Suffrage Associations in other
states are planning to celebrate the placing
of the third star (for Utah) on the woman's
flag. We count it a good omen that we
are the third equal suffrage state, and also
that the star placed on the national flag for
Utah will be the forty-fifth star and the
coincidence that it is just forty-five years
from the date of the forming of the Ter-
ritory is decidedly favorable.
	Women will, of course, share equally in
the honors of the occasion as they are to
have equal part in all that pertains to the
interests and welfare of the new common-
wealth. Utah has every reason to be proud
of her daughters, as well as her sons, and
in all that makes the world beautiful and
delightful as a dwelling place for man, wo-
man has part and a very large part too, in
the work of beautifying and making it
desirable. In the near future women will
have much to do in bringing about the
changes that will naturally result through
the transition from territorial vassalage to
the freedom of statehood.
	The Governor, Attorney General, the
Legislature, the Judges, all combined will
need women to help them adjust some of
the vexed questions that will arise, because
women are expecting to take part now in
all important matters, even if they were
not eligible beforehand for the positions
which they were certainly competent to
have filled. We do not, however, antici-
pate any friction in these matters, the men
will be generous and courteous and women
amiable and moderate in their demands for
recognition. But it is to be hoped they
will also be valiant and firm in maintaining
the right: and they must not expect their
wishes to be an icipated before being made
known. If they get equal political

[Column 2]
privilege for the asking they must be con-
tent. It cannot possibly be expected that
men will take into account this new ele-
ment without being reminded now and then
of its existence.
	As women have not had the privilege of
voting and being voted for in this campaign,
they have had perhaps a better opportunity
to watch the proceedings and take notes,
and if they have learned some wholesome
lessons by standing and waiting, they may
do better service when they are allowed
active participation in the honors and in the
emoluments. It would be very dreadful if
they were to be as greedy for office, and as
unscrupulous in exacting compensation
as some public servants have been of late.
There is no doubt women will be severely
criticised at first, they must make up their
minds to bear it with heroic fortitude for the
sake of the right. And it will take sublime
courage born of a righteous cause to stem
the tide because there are many opponents
still, even though the cause has triumphed
so far as to give a majority of votes in favor.
The sentiment of the country too is fast
changing and it will not belong until equal
suffrage will be the popular sentiment
throughout the union.
	But just now one must deal with these
grave questions as they appear to the masses,
and the people even have need of educating,
and the few will have to undertake the
work, for it is always the few who pave
the way for the great army who claim the
victory, and carry off the honors. Let us
hope that on the occasion of the celebration
of this inaugural the utmost good feeling
will exist in the hearts of all, and citizens
of both sexes and of all classes, combine
their best efforts with untiring earnestness
and devotion, to make the ceremonials im-
posing and impressive to the children,
young and old, of the new free state.

	It is expected that the President of the
United States will sign the Constitution ad-
mitting the new state of Utah into the
Union and issue the proclamation about the
first of January 1896—and that the in-
auguration will take place soon after,
probably on the 6th, of the same month.
It will be a day of days for the people of
the new state, and all political parties will
for the time being and for the future it is
hoped, lay aside partisanship and make it a
jubilee of peace and good will; a time never
to be forgotton, and an auspicious omen for
the welfare and prosperty of the new com-
mon wealth.
	It is anticipated that the inaugural
ceremonies will be observed in the Taber-
nacle, and that spacious building will give
thousands of citizens the opportunity of
witnessing the official inauguration.
	The military display and parade will be
an effective part of the program, the stars
and stripes floating to the breeze, the mar-
tial music, the beating of drums, the firing
of cannon on this great occasion will be a
distinguishing feature of the heralding of
freedom. A beacon fire on Ensign Peak
would add picturesqueness and significance
to the grandeur of the celebration, and could
not fail to make it a distinctive event, her-
alding to the world that in the tops of the
Rocky Mountains, above the once barren
desert, and in sight of the Dead Sea of
America, a State had grown up unique in
geographical topography as well as in his-
toric celebrity, the Queen of the West, in
its unlimited resources of wealth and its

[Column 3]
unbounded prospects for future develop-
ment and growth in all that will lend lustre
and glory to the Republic with which she
will that day be united, the forty-fifth State
represented thereafter by the forty-fifth star
upon the national flag, the emblem of free-
dom and of liberty to all nations.
	It reminds one of the saying of Isaiah the
prophet.
	"Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken;
neither shall thy land any more be termed
Desolate; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-
bah and thy land Beulah; for the Lord de-
lighteth in thee, and thy land shall be
married."


EMMA G. BULL.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	THE sudden news of the demise of Sister
Emma Bull, wife of Elder Joseph Bull of
this city, came like an electric shock to those
who had not heard of her serious illness,
and who had seen her only a few days
before in seemingly usual health. These
warnings should remind us all of the un-
certainty of life, the certainty of death,
and that we should be at all times pre-
pared for the change that comes to all
living.
	There is to us all something solemn, even
sacred in the final departure from this
world of one with whom we have been
associated in our life labors here; and yet
to a Latter-day Saint it really cannot be
so dreadful as to those who have not the
same hopes and promises of a life to come,
that we have who have accepted the Ev-
erlasting Gospel. In many instances when
a saintly man or woman passes away, the
feeling of death is almost obliterated and
a peace so sweet that it is akin to joy
rests upon the habitation of the departed.
	When one is taken from our midst
whose days have been filled with useful-
ness, and whose life has been an example of
faith, patience and courage, like that of Sis-
ter Bull, those friends who remain should
rejoice that all is so well, that one more true
and faithful saint has fought the good fight
and kept the faith, and entered into the rest,
prepared for those who overcome.
	Sister Bull's days were replete with good
works; she will be missed in many places,
in the Salt Lake Temple where she had
officiated ever since it was opened in May,
1893; in the Relief Society of the Seven-
teenth Ward of which she had been a
member for many years, and for ten years
its faithful secretary, and in many public
duties, among the sick and distressed, and
as a missionary to the sisters of the Relief
Society in other localities whenever called
upon to go. There can be no doubt but
she had finished her work here upon earth.
	To her own family she was all that a
wife and mother could be, industrious, en-
ergetic, persevering, amiable, tender and
affectionate. She possessed many noble
traits of character that shine most brightly
in the home. Sister Bull was a woman of
fine presence, and exceptional good taste in
dress, and in the adornments of home; fond
of flowers, artistic in decorating, and in
fine and ornamental needle work, especially
so, her tendencies were all of a refined
nature, and she was tenderly appreciated by
her own family and by many of the Latter-
day Saints, whose acquaintance she had
made here in Utah. She has only left us
for a short time, ere long we shall all follow


whither she has gone, and if we are faithful
unto the end, we shall meet her again
where there is no more pain or sickness or
sorrow, or trials, but where all is joy and
peace forevermore.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VERY pleasant party of ladies was
given by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder at her resi-
dence in this city, on the afternoon of
Thursday, Dec. 5. About twenty five sis-
ters were gathered in her spacious parlors,
which were artistically decorated with vines
and autumn leaves, and after some time
passed in social conversation a delicious
supper was served to the guests, and late in
the evening, the party took the form of a
meeting, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball being
chosen to preside. Most of the sisters re-
sponded to the invitation to speak, and
many were the expressions of good will and
friendship for Sister Alder. Among those
present were Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Julia C. Howe,
Elvira S. Barney, Elizabeth Webb, Emma
Woodruff, Lucy Jane Thurston, Elmina S.
Taylor, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Maria Y.
Dougall, Margaret N. Caine, Annie T.
Taylor, Clara M. Cannon, Maria W. Wilcox
and others. The gathering was a very en-
joyable one, and the sweet interchange of
ideas and sentiments were specially gratify-
ing to all. These social visits help to unite
the sisters in ties that will be lasting in time
and continue throughout eternity.

THE SENATOR FROM UTAH.
	“The Senator From Utah” is a new book
of home production, published at the office
of the Juvenile Instructor in this city. It
is from the pen of the gifted young writer
and poet Miss Josephine Spencer. The
title itself should recommend it to the pub-
lic at the present time. Miss Spencer deals
with the subject in an entirely original man-
ner, and brings it near in scenery and de-
scription. The author seems to see in the
political horizon storms brewing that might
perhaps be averted were wise methods
adopted in the new State. Evidently she
feels strongly upon the vital questions of
labor and capital and sympathizes deeply
with the laboring classes. It is quite a new
departure for a young Utah woman, and
every one who believes in encouraging the
talents of home writers should buy the
book and read it. It contains many beauti-
ful pen pictures, and is realistic in portray-
ing the strong emotions of men and women
under trying circumstances. The contents
are A Senator from Utah, A Municipal
Sensation, Finley Parke’s Problem, Mari-
dcn’s Experiment, Letitia, Mariposa Lilies,
Hester. The book is for sale at all the
bookstores in the city. Price, cloth bind-
ing, $1.00; paper cover, 50 cents.


HELEN KELLER is said to have the sense
of touch so marvellously developed that she
can recognize a person’s emotions by simply
placing her hand upon his or her face, even
although the play of feeling is so subtle
that the ordinary observer would not detect
any change of expression. She can also
detect the presence of any one by the sense
of smell, and she is learning to sing by lay-
ing her fingers on the sides of a singers’
throat and imitating with her own vocal
chords the vocalist’s notes.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.
Emmeline B. Wells
	ONE Christmas eve a story was being
written in a dreamy, old-fashioned parlor,
with quaint furniture of the olden time,
and such queer pictures of ancient dames
hanging on the walls, that were brown with
age, altogether a gloomy place, save for the
bright coal fire in the grate, beside which
sat a woman past middle life, in flannel
wrapper and slippers, with a thoughtful
pensive countenance and a far-off look in
her blue eyes as though she saw into the
depths of something beyond, while she
gazed into the glowing, crimson coals.
	A gentle knock, the door opens softly,
and a tall, slim, younger woman comes
slowly towards the lady by the fire, looking
up she recognizes there is a world outside
her day-dreams, and turns her face to the
timid maid, who inquires if her mistress
will have some tea and toast.
	“Yes, thank you, perhaps its late, I sup-
pose it must be,” “eleven missus and the
lights are all out everywhere except the
street lamps. You’ll catch your death here
if you don't have something warm, let me
me bring the tray in, what a pile you’ve
writ tonight,” glancing at the little table
full of books and manuscript, and noticing
the fresh written sheets scattered about,
“my sakes, tomorrow will be Christmas
and you up till mornin and not a soul here
to wish you ‘Merrie Christmas.”
	“Never mind Polly fetch the toast, and
you go to bed and sleep well; we’ll have a
crowd here tomorrow, never fear.”
	Polly goes muttering to herself, about
“people that’s allers writin, and makin
nothin by it, and never a word for anybody,
and never thinkin of the work that has to
be done by somebody; now there’s Mrs.
Le Fevre, she’s going to give her girls a
day off, and a fine dinner, and every one
on'em will have a new gown, or some finery,
that’s something like when one’s worked
hard all the year; I don’t see what Missus
wants to keep on year after year for, and
never take a rest; she’ll die in her chair
someday, and who’ll be the better, she’s
nothin to leave but old piles of papers, and
letters and books.”
	Nevertheless Polly brought in the tray
and the woman drank the tea, though she
seemed not to know she was eating or drink-
ing; there was the same dreamy look in her
eyes, and she started as the doors shook as
if some one claimed entrance, and the case-
ments rattled and the wind shrieked and
moaned like living creatures in distress.
The Christmas bells rang out at midnight,
she paused a moment in her work (for she
had resumed her pen) and the tears fell
down her pale cheeks like rain; she was
thinking of her loved ones long since laid
away in the quiet grave yard. On and on
she worked, every now and then listening
to the wind to catch its music, when its
wildest notes rang out upon the night air,
and echoed through the empty rooms, every
sound seeming to her sensitive nerves,
strung to the finest tension, like living
voices, full of the sweetness and melody,
that once filled the dear old home where she
had lived O, so many long years. But we
must not linger over these memories; the
story was not finished until the grey morn-
ing was dawning on the Eastern hills.

	In the visions of the night time.
		When the world is fast asleep,
	Troops of pictures loom before us,
		Saddest mem’ries vigils keep.


A SAILOR BOY’S STORY.
	Once upon a time, a very long time ago
too, a great ship was sailing far away over
the sea in the Indian ocean, with all her
sails spread, and the breezes blowing hot,
and the Captain pacing the broad deck of
his handsome vessel, heard a rough sailor
lad swearing as he was calling to a slender
boy far up in the rigging of the ship and
ordering him to draw in sail, and as the boy
tried but could not reach, he swore furiously
at the lad; Captain Dorr, brave but tender
ordered the stalwart sailor sharply to go
himself to the boy’s rescue, as he saw the
danger, and bring the boy safe to deck.
	When this was done the Captain sent the
sailor about his business and interrogated
the lad, after his own fashion, “How in the
name of all the saints came you aboard a
whaler, what’s your name, and where have
you been, hid away that I’ve never seen
you before? You run away from home
didn’t you, well I did the same thing my-
self or I might have been a well to do man
now instead of sailing the high seas on a
whaler, and never able to stand straight
when I go ashore, We’re out for a five
year’s voyage, my boy, and no chance for
you to get home again, unless we meet a
ship going in and I wouldn’t like to trust
you with strangers, no knowing if you’d
ever see land if I did. No, I think I’ll
take care of you, myself, go and call Tim,
Mr. Taft, I mean, my first mate you know,
but you’ve not told me who you are.” The
boy looked up to see if the Captain was in
earnest for the sailors had told him such
dreadful stories to scare him into doing their
bidding. “My name is Frank Easton, and
I did run away.” “Well, never mind that
now, I’ll take care of you, I’ve none of my
own.” The boy soon found the first mate
and the Captain made some inquiries about
the boy, and bade the mate inform the crew
Frank was only to wait upon him. “All
right Captain, I’m very glad, I’ve been
sorry for the boy from the first, he’s had a
hard time so far.”
	Ever since Frank had left his home, en-
ticed away by bad men who had given him
grog (he had never tasted liquor of any
kind before) he had mourned for his mother,
and whenever he was left alone for a few
minutes he would weep as if his very heart
would break. Afterwards when he lay for
weeks with the fever in the hot climate of
the South sea, he talked incessantly to the
Doctor of his home, until sometimes the
good old man would turn away to wipe his
eyes, though he was accustomed to all sorts
of trying scenes. All the long years, while
Frank was aboard the good ship Durango,
he never heard one word from his home.
He did not dare to write, yet he must have
known how terrible it was to his mother,
only boys can never quite realize a mother’s
grief; the Captain took to him wonderfully
and watched him during the fever many a
long night through, charging the Doctor
and the old negro nurse to take the best of
care of him.
	When Frank was better nurse Susie said
one day “you’re getting peert now, you’ll let
your mammy know how you are, as you’ve
talked so much about her all the time; she
must be most crazy. I dreamt of her one
night when I was sittin here all alone, and
you was tossin and moanin, and hot as fire
with fever, and I was so tired my eyes
would’nt stay open nohow, and she come
right in here, and went up to you in that
cot and put her hands, so white and thin,


[Column 1]
on your curly head, and you looked up and
give a great scream, and woke me right up,
and I felt her cold hands touch mine, and
when I ran up to you, what did you say,
but, "O mammy nurse I’ve seen my mother;
and I said, ‘yes honey, she’s been here, I
seen her too,’ and then the fever was on you,
and I called Dr. Van Norton, and he pooh
poohed and said ‘Mammy you had the night-
more,’ but it want no nightmare as sure as
you live, and your mammy was here, and
I knowed her cause when you had the
’lirum and out’n your head you said O,
mammy, with her soft hands and long
silken curls, and pretty dresses. Bress you
I heard the silk gown rustling, I knows
what I’se talkin ’bout.” Frank wondered
at Mammy, but couldn’t quite understand,
he didn’t remember the dream, though he
had sometimes woke with the feeling that
his mother was close by, and looking up
always saw nurse Susie, black and fat,
so different, from his pale, sweet-faced
mother, but she called him honey, and
tended him carefully and was patient and
kind. He wished sometimes to be left,
perhaps his mother would come, but yet he
knew she couldn’t. One day he asked
Mammy if she knew how to pray, there
was a terrible storm and the ship’s crew
made such a noise over head and Mammy
was rocking herself to and fro, making him
feel so queer and scared, “bress your soul
honey, I know how to pray, but I don't do
it now, ’cause I don’t care to live, I’se a
slave, I haint nothin to pray for, now maybe
this ere storm’ll take us all and swaller us
up in the bottom o’the sea, I dun care.”
	“But mammy you’ll be all right when
the ship goes in, wont you? You’ll be free
then.” “A lot you knows, course I wont,
silly chile, I’ll be jest the same.”
	“If you come home with me I’ll take care
of you, mammy, my mother’ll keep you,”
“but she can’t, heap you knows chile, you
don’t know ’bout niggers up there in
the North does ye?” “I guess not Mam-
my by what you say.” “Well chile I
guess I’se pretty happy as long as Massa
Cap’n lives, but when he dies old mammy
want to go too, I’se took care o’him and
toted him roun when he was a leetle baby,
and when all the nigga’s done sole out, he 
buy me in for a hundred dollars, and bring
me on ship we’him.”
	Just then the ship gave a great lurch and
Frank fainted, and old mammy roared out
that he was dead, but no one came, all were
too busy to hear anything except the roar 
of the terrific storm; but he revived again
and fell off to sleep dreaming of his mother,
and the home folks and the school, and the
boys and girls he used to know. He al-
ways told nurse his dreams, and when he
was well enough he read to her out of the
Captain’s books. Once after a severe
storm, the Captain came down into the
cabin and told Frank the ship was going in-
to port for repairs, and he would send a let-
ter home for him, and let his parents know
he was safe, and when he returned to
America he would bring him safe back to
them. Frank consented and the letter was
written, it was very brief but Frank asked
the Captain to tell his mother that he had
often dreamed she was with him, while he
was ill. “Tell her about nurse Susie how
good she has been to me.” When the
Captain left the cabin to go on deck mammy
said, “what for you tell your proud mother
’bout me honey, she can’t help me, and ole
massa'll be mad, he’ll think I ve been tell-
in you somethin. And now I’se gwine to

[Column 2]
tell you, tomorrow’s the blessed Lord’s day,
now honey I don’t spose you know what
day ’tis no more, since you’ve been sick,
no more'n I do and I dunno know, but I
heard them sailors sayin as ’twas nigh onto
Christmas, an they swore they’d have some
rum, and so I told massa Cap’n, and he
said, “Susie, they shall all have a fine din-
ner, and plenty of good meat; oxen, rice,
yams, and fruits—for we’re going into the
port of Madagascar, and must lay to for the
ship to be repaired,” “now what you think
chile about Christmas on the island ’mong
them savages, what eats people up.” “But
mammy we shan’t go on shore and we’re
well protected with big guns.”
	“I dun care chile we’se goin to have
Christmas dinner," and sure enough a
sumptuous dinner was given to the ship’s
crew, but Frank only thought of his home,
and the sorrow there, and his heart was
heavy. He never forgot that day at Mada-
gascar, so hot at Christmas time that one
could scarcely breathe, while at home he
knew it was cold, snow and ice.
	The long voyage was over at last and the
great whale ship reached America in due
course of time. Many of the sailors had
died and been cast into the sea; at first
Frank thought he could never look on and
see these warm-hearted sailors wrapped in
the sail cloth let down among the sharks,
but he grew accustomed to these dreadful
things after a while; it was only a burial at
sea that was all.
	The ship lay at anchor near a large city
and the usual bustle and confusion of un-
lading, and of official examinations was
going on, the captain so busy as to forget
Frank, but in the meantime the boy was
hesitating whether he dared to go home at
all. Fear lest anything had happened in
his absence to those he really loved, and
shame for the disgrace and sorrow he had
brought upon them by running away. He
knew not what to do, but he was provided
for; the letter Captain Dorr had sent for
him, had reached its destination and while
he was reflecting what course to take his
father came on board, having waited and
watched anxiously day after day for the
ship’s return.
	No words of mine can describe the scene
between the father and son, when they met
on the deck of the vessel. Both were
changed, the father’s hair was grey with
sorrow and the boy had merged into man-
hood, his voice had changed too, his father
did not recognize in the young man in
sailor costume, his boy Frank, nor did the
boy know in this elderly grey-haired man,
the father whom he had so cruelly left. It
was only upon inquiry among the sailors
that the father found his son.
	Frank could not speak, his utterance was
choked with sobs, the father only said “My
boy where is your Captain?” Frank was
glad of an excuse to turn away and look
for him, and as soon as Captain Dorr came
he asked “Where is the boy’s mother?
	He has talked of her constantly.” There
was no answer for a moment, then a heavy
sigh and Mr. Easton could only whisper,
“she is dead.” Imagine the anguish of
that boy, he was indeed sorely stricken,
even Captain Dorr accustomed as he was to
scenes of suffering and of grief, could
scarcely speak, but tried to comfort Frank
in his rough, sailor fashion. Frank felt he
had been the cause, and he dared not look
his father in the face; he wondered after-
wards, why he had not died, when he
heard the fatal tidings.

[Column 3]
	Finally Frank and his father were ready 
to go ashore, and when leaving the ship,
urged Captain Dorr, who had been such a
faithful friend to come and see them at the
earliest possible moment. He promised to
do so, as soon as all the necessary work
was finished and reported to the ship own-
ers. And sorrowful indeed Frank said
“Good-bye,” feeling he could never again
go aboard any vessel.
	After the first few weeks of sadness and
repentance at home, Frank Easton became
a sort of hero, among his associates, and
the village girls (for his home was in a vil-
lage a few miles out from the great seaport)
were infatuated with his rather foreign
manners; and his tales of the countries he
had seen, lent a sort of glamour that was
facinating to simple country people. He
was invited everywhere, and was the envy
of the other boys of his acquaintance;
jealousy crept in too and he began to feel
unhappy, he had no sister to advise him
and his brothers were busy with their own
affairs, and the temptation to go away from
it all, to go to sea again was too strong to be
resisted, but he determined not to deceive
his father, but to tell him of his plans. 
	Before many days after this idea had
seized upon him, he said to his father, “I
must go to sea once more father, the desire
to be on the ocean is too strong upon me to
be overcome. I have looked at the matter
on all sides. I seem out of place here; my
aunt Hetty does not care to have me at
home; she looks upon me as an interloper.
You are occupied with your business and
do not need me, and my brothers will be
married before long from all appearances.
If I guess right Aunt Hetty intends to make
her future home with you, and I shall be in
the way. I love the sea, but I want to go
with your permission this time.”
	My son you must not feel you are not
welcome in your father’s house. I have
never been able to tell you of your mother’s
suffering on your account; it is too sorrow-
ful a tale, would I could forget it; but
wherever you go remember her love and
devotion, and never break another heart as
you did hers.” Frank was completely
overcome and left the room to weep alone;
but in a later conversation he said to his
father: “I feel I can be a better and truer
man on the water than to remain here; I’ll
try never to disgrace the name I bear, and
my thoughts on the solemn night watch,
with the stars overhead, and the wild waves
all around me, shall be of my mother whom
I loved more than I can tell you, though
she knew it not.”
	O it is ever thus, those we love most
never know the depth of our affection, it is
only to the winds and waves we dare to
utter it.
	And so it was settled that Frank should
go on board a merchant vessel this time to
the Mediterranean sea and cruise among the
islands. The girls were disappointed when
they learned of his intentions, and he was
showered with souvenirs of love and con-
stancy. He was mate on the vessel, and
quite efficient, for Captain Dorr in visiting
him, had given him letters that were a pass-
port to favor of his competency. He was
away nearly two years, and enjoyed the
voyage very much this time, but wanted to
see his father, aud also some of the young
women who had been so profuse in senti-
ment when he bade them fare well on going
away.
	Immediately upon going on shore he met
with one of his old friends from the village,


[Column 1]
and they went together to have supper.
Harry Colton had much to tell him of what
had transpired during his absence, and
wound up with asking him to go to a meet-
ing he was to attend that evening. “O is
it the sailor’s prayer meeting,” said Frank,
"I was thinking to go as soon as I could
find one after coming into harbor, we had a
kind of religious Master on board ship
and I partly promised him to find a prayer
meeting in the city, instead of going off on
a spree as sailors do generaly as soon as
they touch land.”
	"No. it is not a sailor’s prayer meeting,”
Harry replied, "but it is a meeting where
there is praying and preaching, and won-
derful singing, and I believe it is real Bible
doctrine they preach, for they take the
Scriptures literal and you don’t have to be
a parson to understand them. Will you
go, you’ll not go home before tomorrow?”
	“Yes, I'll go,” said Frank, “to please
you, and out of curiosity, it will be some-
thing new, at least from what you say.
And I’m fond of variety, and of novelties.
I don’t think I could ever settle down to a
humdrum life now, after my varied expe-
riences.”
	Frank nor Harry little knew what would
be the result of that evening’s meeting.
They were both convinced of the truth of
the Gospel preached by the two mission-
aries, and the consequence was the Elders
were invited to the village of N.—and
the two young men became converts to the 
faith of the Latter-day Saints. But all was
not peace at home for Frank. He had in-
vited those Elders to his father’s house.
This time he was not returning as a prodi-
gal, but with a feeling of independence and
assured in his own mind that any friends
of his would be welcome. Harry also ac-
companied him, and the welcome was a 
cordial one until in course of conversation
it came out that these men were “Mormon”
Elders, and then the stepmother, (Aunt
Hettie,) was furious; she would not allow
these followers of a false prophet to sleep
under her roof. Mr. Easton was greatly
embarrassed, but had not the courage to
decide against his wife, and Frank, Harry
and the young men took an abrupt leave of
the home.
	Frank had money, and he succeeded in
getting a hall for a meeting, and as soon as
the rumor spread through the town that
Frank had returned from his voyage at sea,
it was easy to get an audience Persecu-
tion, however, began, first of all through
Mrs. Easton’s inhospitable behavior. and
Frank soon after left the village, though
half the girls were more or less in love with
him. He was accompanied by Harry Col-
ton, and together they obtained a position
some distance away among strangers. But
they found in the new locality whither they
went a branch of the same church, and
united with it, and soon became acquainted.
Here Frank fell in love for the first time in
his life, and after some time he married
Gratia Beamen, a fine young woman, who
had also been converted to the same faith a
few months previous to his coming to S.—
and about a year after they gathered to
Nauvoo. Here they met the usual trials,
but remained firm. Frank often had the
desire when things went wrong to leave all
and go to sea again, and would say to his
wife: “You know you can go home any-
time to your mother, who was so opposed
to your coming West, and I’ll make a little
money and come back to the Church, its

[Column 2]
only that I can’t bear to see you go without
what you’ve always had, and I can’t earn
enough here to keep the wolf from the
door.” But Gratia strong and determined
would reply: “No, Frank, we’ve given up
all for our religion, let us stand by that.”
And so they did, through poverty, through
sickness, and all sorts of hardships, coming
out from Nauvoo half provided, and living
in Winter Quarters, where the lack of veg-
etables and comfortable food caused sick-
ness and death, but they were true and
faithful through it all.
	When the Pioneers were called to go and
find a resting place for the Saints, Frank
—was one of the number, and his wife
followed with that first famous company of
1847. Here they endured much the first
few years. Some day the writer may tell
you more of this grand character, but now
the sailor boy’s story is already too long.
Because of poverty, and perhaps too, on ac-
count of the roving spirit of his boyhood,
he tried his luck in the gold mines of Cali-
fornia, shortly after they were opened, arid
brought home some gold and many curiosi-
ties.
	At different periods afterwards he went
seeking his fortune in new fields of enter-
prise; but always among the Saints in some
new locality where such men are use-
ful in colonizing, and though he never
succeeded in obtaining wealth, yet he
remained true to the faith he had em-
braced with so much zeal, and which
controlled in him this strong passion for
roving about the world; proving what a
power the Gospel is in keeping men in the
line of duty, if they will yield to its influ-
ence. He would have died many years be-
fore he did if he had followed the sea.
	Harry Colton, his friend, commenced
as firm as Frank, but fell by the wayside.
The wife was a strength and help to him in
his church duties, and their children are the
heirs of noble ancestors, and in the future
they will have a great work to do, in help
ing to redeem them, for both father and
mother have long since passed away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL CON-
VENTION OF THE N. A. W. S. A.
	ALL friends of justice and equal rights
are earnestly invited to assemble in the
Twenty-eighth Annual Convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, in the Church of our Father,
Washington, D. C., January 23 to 28,
1896.
	‘‘The present day is bristling with an
energy which has for its aim the elevation
of our race in mental and moral directions,
in every department, indeed, of human life.
	“Living under the law, helped or hin-
dered by its enactment, women are, by
every principle of natural justice, as well as
by the nature of our institutions, as fully
entitled as men to vote and to be eligible to
office.
	As the president of Harvard University
says: “The exercise of suffrage stimulates
all citizens to reflect on problems outside
the narrow circle of their private interests
and occupations. *   *   * The duties of
republican citizenship, rightly discharged,
constitute in themselves a prolonged educa-
tion.  *  *  *  The bulwarks of the com-
mon wealth will prove all the stronger and
more lasting, because women, as well, as
men, can work on them and help to trans-

[Column 2] 
mit them, ever broader and firmer, from
generation to generation.”
	We rejoice in the immense gains made
in this and other countries since our last
Convention; Utah completing a trinity of
true republics at the summit of the Rockies;
South Australia fully enfranchising the
woman of its vast territory.
	We hail with joy the magnificent growth
of public sentiment resulting in the sub-
mission of a Woman Suffrage Amendment
to the Constitutions of New York, Oregon,
Idaho, Nevada and California, by their re-
spective State Legislatures; the twenty-six
votes for women’s full enfranchisement in
the recent Constitutional Convention of
South Carolina; the result of the vote on
the sham Referendum in Massachusetts,
showing that one out of every three men,
and nineteen out of of every twenty women
of that conservative commonwealth, who
expressed at the ballot box their opinions
on our question, were in favor of Equal
Suffrage—a startling revelation to the Re-
monstrants throughout the entire nation.
	We point with pride to the splendid re-
suits of the work of our Association in
organizing State Societies in Idaho, Mon-
tana, North Dakota, Nevada, Arizona,
Oklahoma, New Mexico, West Virginia
and Delaware, so that when we assemble
in Washington at our Annual Convention,
for the first time in our history the Associa-
tion will be composed of organizations in
every state and territory except Alaska,
linked together in one great national body.
	This call is addressed to all those who de-
sire the physical, intellectual and moral im-
provement of mankind.
	If our Convention shall promote, in any
degree, freedom of thought and action
among women; if it shall incite them to
higher aspirations; if it shall advance by a
few steps just legislation and a wise public
sentiment, if it shall hasten the recognition
of the justice of woman’s claim to equal po-
litical rights with men, it will not have
been in vain.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor, Sec. 
	Headquarters: 1341 Arch Street Phila-
delphia, Pa.


R. S. REPORT.

ST. CHARLES, IDAHO,
DEC. 24th, 1895.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE Relief Society conference of Bear
Lake Stake was held in Paris, Second
Ward, Sunday Nov. 24th, 1895.
	President Julia S. Lindsay presiding.
At 10 a. m. after the usual devotional ex-
ercises. Roll called and minutes read.
President Julia Lindsay addressed the
saints a short time, testifying to the bless-
ings that attend those sisters who faithfully
perform their public duties.
	The verbal reports were given, showing
the Relief Society throughout the stake to
be in a prosperous condition. Counselor
L. M. Hart was the next speaker. She ex-
horted the sisters to each one obtain a tes-
timony of the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged. Warned all against fault-
finding which she feared growing among
us.
	President William Budge spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters. Advised the presi-
dents to adopt some plan to encourage a
better attendance at the Relief Society


meetings. We should live so that we will
not lose God’s spirit for no person is happy
without it.”
	Prayed for the blessings of God to be
with the saints. Hymn “Lord dismiss us.”
Closing prayer by Bishop Price.
	At 2 p. m. meeting opened by Counselor
Elizabeth Collings. Singing, “My God
the spring of all my joys.” Prayer by
President William L. Rich.
	After the second hymn the sacrament was
administered, while the bread and water
was being dispensed the choir sang, “Ye
children of our God.”
	President Lindsday, Counselor Collins
and Sister M. Bagley instructed the sisters
to be frugal, to make the best use of the
means they have. Testified to the bless-
ings received from God, and exhorted the
sisters to faithfulness that they may receive
the great reward that is in store for them.
Elder Emil Maeser admonished parents to
teach their children the principles of the
gospel and see that they mingle in good
society. “While we dwell upon the earth
is the time for us to work out our salvation
if we allow the time to pass unimproved it
will be lost forever. The minutes were
read and approved. Choir sang, after which
conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction by Elder J. N. Stucki.
			NANCY H. ALLRED, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
PERNECY F. ALLEN WILLIAMS.
	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the 12th Ward Relief Society, to
the memory of our beloved Sister Pernecy F.
Williams who departed this life Nov. 23rd 1895, at
Logan, Utah, where she had gone to comfort her
two daughters in sickness by her presence.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in his wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
Sister Pernecy F. Williams.
	Be it resolved, that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of Him, “Who doeth all
things well,” we do recognize in her death, the
severe loss of a faithful, energetic and efficient
teacher, assistant treasurer and trustee, in our
society. A true friend to the needy, a comforter
in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife, and
mother, and a true Latter-day Saint, we also
recognize in her faithful labors and devotion to
the cause of Zion an example worthy of emula-
tion of each member of our society.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her bereaved husband, Brother T. V. Williams,
her children and friends in the loss of a faithful
wife, loving mother and sincere friend.
	Also that these resolutions be placed upon the
records of the Twelth Ward Relief Society and be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that
a copy be sent to the family of our departed
sister.
				JULIA A. DRUCE, President.
			HANNAH C. BROOKS, Secretary.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of Suffrage meeting held Dec.
17th, 1895, in the Fourteenth Ward hall,
President Groesbeck in the chair Song,
"O Come, Come Away." Prayer by
Elizabeth Price. Song, "Hold the Fort."
Minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved. President Groesbeck read the
Constitution of the W. S. A. of Utah.
	Elizabeth Price spoke of women being
backward in going to the primaries and do-
ing their duty as suffragists, in spite of all
obstacles.
	Margaret A. Caine said now is the time
to work diligently, and encourage our citi-
zens, and teach them to understand their
rights that they may vote for good men to
fill offices and enforce the laws. Also spoke


in regard to membership dues and the
standing they give in regard to the W. S.
A. Convention in Washington.
	Elizabeth McFarlane made some very in-
structive and encouraging remarks, after
which Dr. E. B. Ferguson read a card in
reply to a telegram sent by the W. S. A. of
Utah to Mrs. Stanton on the anniversary of
her 80th birthday.
	Moved hat the list of names of members
be forwarded immediately and be sent with
the State dues to the National treasury.
	Janitor’s bill presented and ordered paid.
Executive committee instructed to prepare
a program for the next meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
			CARRIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
[Continued.]
	I am not merely speaking for my-
self, but all the women speakers in Colorado
I think were equally fortunate. I went to
one place in Colorado and when I met the
lady who entertained me she looked rather
surprised. I stayed three days, and she did
everything in the world to make it pleasant
for me and just before I went away she
said: “I am a very honest woman and I 
was very sorry when I heard you were
coming and I am very glad that you came,
but when the telegram came that you were
coming I was not very glad. I took it to 
my next door neighbor and I said, ‘Look at
that. There is a political woman coming
here. She is six feet tall and weighs about 
250 pounds and she has a voice that you can
hear a mile.’ She said, “You came in
looking so tired and so slight that I wanted
to take you up in my arms and put you to
bed.” So you see they wanted us to do all
sorts of extraordinary things. Once in a
while you have a word you would like to 
express that is extraordinary strong I re-
member once in a convention a man became
rather excited and he started up and doubled
up his fist and said, “O, if there were no 
women here I would give $5,000,00.’ So
you see it was good for women to be there
as they better the morals and introduce
politeness into politics. Man brings into
politics the binding force that prevents the 
political universe from going off in a 
tangent; woman is the centrifugal force,
the force that binds and keeps the earth
from going off into space; but if we had the 
complete control of politics we probably
would have made just as much of a muddle
of it as the men have made of it. But I
think I see the dawning of a most beauti-
ful day, a day of truth and love and loyalty.
	Already the movement has formed for re-
form and is vastly being exerted by the wo-
men. The women are now organizing in
Denver regardless of political faith. We
do not recognize insurmountable obstacles;
if the obstacles are there they must be
walked around, climbed over or swept out
of the way. There is no such thing as an 
insurmountable object to a woman who
knows she is right, and municipal mis-
management is going to be prevented in the 
City of Denver because we women are go-
ing to roll away the strong party bias which
has no place whatever in the City affairs
and we are going to stand together Repub-
licans, Democrats and Populists and de-
clare in State affairs that politics and ethics
shall be one. We have begun the work
already and I hope before six months have

[Column 2]
gone by that the world will see that the
municipal politics of a city where women
have the ballot, means something a great
deal better than municipal politics can pos-
sibly mean where women have not the bal-
lot. We are educated to believe the more
we use the ballot that it is a supreme
responsibility and a very precious privilege
and we like it better every day, and yet to
use that ballot right means that we must 
study hard, and no education has been of
greater value to us than the sober sense of
responsibility which comes from the
knowledge that the opinions which we ut-
ter can be counted and we weigh those 
opinions well and you know there is no
educator in the world so great as responsi-
bility, I think the reason women have been
thought to be ambitious is just because they
do know responsibility. They could say
what they pleased and it didn’t count they
could keep still if they liked and it didn’t
count. Everything we say in Colorado
counts and I think as time goes on our
worth will be recognized more and more.
	Your Mr. Roberts said in reference to some
argument against suffrage that he would
expect that from a Republican but he would
not have expected it from a Democrat.
Well, I would not expect a remark against
suffrage from a Republican because I think
a good Republican is a good American 
citizen and no good American citizen can
conscientiously oppose Woman Suffrage and
be faithful to the spirit of his constitution.
(Applause.) I would like to say to him as
he said of some other Democrat: “Oh, fie
upon a Democrat for using such an argu-
ment’’ because every single implication of
the supremely democratic idea of absolute
equality of rights and absolute freedom for
the individual is contradicted when a man
or woman shall say that women too, should
not have equal rights. I have never seen
Mr. Roberts, I wish I could see him be-
cause I am just as loyal a Democrat as he
is and I say—Oh fie upon any Democrat
who will put such an interpretation upon
the Declaration of Independence! Fie up-
on the American be he Democrat, Republi-
can or Populist who dare say that equal
suffrage is not the idea of this broad earth.
(Applause.) We think we have been led
to understand the difference between liberty
and freedom. A friend of mine a distin-
guished writer says there is a great differ-
ence between liberty and freedom and I 
think he is right in his distinction. He
said that liberty has restrictions, it is limited, 
but that freedom is something more, it is
affirmative, it is the power to do right, but
such power is not in the hands of a great
many of our countrymen today. And how
much more glorious it will be when we can
have the power to do right.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 24	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, AND 15, 1896.	No. 15-16.


CONTENTS:

	Tribute To The Governor—L. S. D. Madame
D’Arblay—I. C. B. “O, Success, What a
Triumph?"—J. M. L. Before It Was Too Late—
Ida Haag. Letters To The Governor And Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Semi-monthly Meeting—L. D.
Alder. Sketch Of Travels—R. H. Doolan. R. S.
Reports. In Memoriam. Mary P. Teasdale—Un
Ermano. Obituary—Elizabeth W. Condie.

	EDITORIAL:—The Inauguration.

	POETRY:—Dying, Yet Living—Ellis R. Shipp.
The Ruined Cathedral At Macao, China. Life
Temporal, Eternal—O. J. Wilson. The Heart
Has An Eye—Irene Ackerman.


DYING, YET LIVING.

As fadeth the beautiful daylight,
	And night’s dusky shadows appear,
In the haze of the soft mellow twilight
	A holier presence is near.
We sum up the days’ weighty problems,
	Con over each word, deed and thought.
We scan the result of our actions, 
	Whether good or ill they have wrought.
But the strife and worry of living,
	Stern trials, temptation and care,
Are lost in divine forgiving
	And the hallowing chalice of prayer.

After seasons of storm-cloud and sunshine
	Close the year with unerring pace,
The traces cf pleasure or trial
	Are written on mind, heart and face
Again we pause for a reckoning—
	Contrition, and solemn resolve;
Sweet conscience silently beckoning
	While many new plans we evolve,
That will chasten, uplift and inspire,
	To feelings more pure and divine,
Exalt and ennoble desire,
	And lead to a life more sublime.

And when mortal strivings are ended,
	And we wait the blissful beyond;
May all of our hopes be uplifted
	By sacred and holier bond.
A faith in immortal existence,
	A hope that illumines the soul,
A promise of endless progression
	To a perfect and sanctified goal.
May freedom of mortal endurance,
	The wealth of research and toil,
Receive then the master's assurance,
	“They yet bloom on Heavenly soil.”
						E. R. SHIPP.
New Year’s, 1896.


THE RUINED CATHEDRAL AT
MACAO, CHINA.
BY MARGHERITA ARLINA HAMM.
REMNANTS of what have once been mighty walls,
Of tessellated halls,
Where trod
The myriad ministers and worshipers of God,
Of golden portals and immortal spires
And altars lit by ever-burning fires,
What are you now, stones sacred and sublime,
But a loose page torn from the book of time?
Never again shall nave and transept hear the
	strain
Of the Magnificat’s glad refrain,


Nor rise upon the evening breeze
The Vesper’s spirit melodies.
Where once they rose in air
The Pagan tomtoms blare,
And in the place of Latin prayer and song,
Are heard the heathen cymbal and the gong.

Thy halls are filled with spectres shadowy gray
By night and day.
The Jesuit Father General, sweet and sad,
The deathless poet of the Lusiad,
Bishops and brothers, princes, padres, peers,
Soldiers in armor, merchants, buccaneers
Throng every spot
Contrasting what has been with what is not.

Yet, O Cathedral, though thy days are fled
And thou art but a phantom from the dead
Thy work shall live until the final day 
And grow alway,
In wiser measures then the past has wrought,
In better manners, nobler laws and thought.
The years to come thine epitaph shall find
In the new race of Godlike human kind.
—From the Chicago "Inter-Ocean," Dec. 23, 1894.


TRIBUTE TO THE GOVERNOR.

HEBER M. WELLS.
	COULD the Pilgrim Fathers have cast
their eye down the avenue of time and seen
the multitudes of human souls that have
followed them across the waters into our
beautiful land of freedom, pressing on from
frontier to frontier, forming one state after
another, until they are linked together, in
one long chain of union that reaches from
one end of the great American Continent to
the other, they would have fought harder,
had it been possible in their determination
to win the battle of Liberty and Freedom
they won so successfully. Throughout the
whole length and breadth of our broad land
where could they, were they living today,
find such another state as our own lovely
Utah, with her wonderful resources of
wealth, many of which no other state can
boast Her gold and silver, and various
other mines, equal to any in our country,
perhaps to any in the world, though they
are yet in their infancy, her mountains, her
broad valleys, her rivers and lakes; her
agricultural fields, her fruits and flowers.
Where, Oh, Wise one is there another like
her this bright sunny morning, with peace,
plenty and good will hovering all about her,
as she enters the sisterhood of states, with
one of her own true, brave, honest sons for
her first Governor. Surely that is as it
should be, for while he is people of our
people, he is also a descendant of the brave
fathers who landed upon Plymouth rock on
that cold desolate morning 275 years ago,
whose proud old ancestors date ther lineage
back more than eight centuries, and whose
family motto is now and has always been,
“Tis better to be than to appear.” A mot-
to our “Hebe” has not only carried in his
family genealogy, but in his heart as well,
making of him the one man Utah in her
triumphal hour demanded as ruler of her
people. L. S. D.


MADAME D’ARBLAY.

	AT Lynn, in the far off English Co. of
Shropshire in 1752, was born in a quiet
unassuming little cottage, the woman who 
did for the English world of fiction, what
Jeremy Collier did for the English drama,
but did it in a better way, by writing the
first successful English novel, ever written 
and given to the world by a woman.
	Frances Burney the daughter of Charles
Burney the village organist. The Burneys’
were of Irish origin and descended from
the McBurneys, a family at one time
possessed of plenty of means and good
possition in the county. The McBurnys'
ruined themselves through rivalry and in-
ternal jealousies. James, the heir appar-
ent, got himself disinherited through a
runaway match with an actress and his
father revenged himself on his disobedient
boy by marrying the cook. The cook gave
birth to a son named Joseph who succeeded
to the family estates, ran through them
with surprising alacrity, squandered the
family ducats and was soon as poor as his
disinherited brother, and both were forced
to earn their bread. Joseph turned dancing
master and James struck the “Mack” off
his name and set up as a portrait painter,
he was the father of Charles Burney the
organist at Lynn.
	Charles was apprenticed to a celebrated
musician in London and became very suc-
cessful, with a brilliant career before him;
but his health failed and he was obliged
to leave the city and accepted the position
of organist at Lynn. Little Frances’s
mother died when she was a baby, and she
seems to have been in childhood a com-
plete little vagabond, she never had a
teacher or governess, was called “a dunce”
by her brothers and sisters, and at eight
years of age could neither read, or write nor
knew her letters.
	The degree of “Dr. of music” was con-
fered upon Charles Burney by the university
of Oxford and in 1760 he moved back to
London and took up his residence on the
south side of Leicester Square in a house,
her biographer says “that will be famous as
long as our Island retains any traces of
civilization for it was the home of Newton.”
	Dr. Burney obtained pupils in some of the
best families and about this time wrote
“the History of Music” gaining for him-
self a place among men of letters and was
able to support his family comfortably.
Although he loved, petted and carressed
his little daughter, he never gave her the
slightest care. The other children were
sent to Paris to be educated, but the father
thought that if Frances was educated in a
Catholic school, she would be perverted
from the Prostestant faith, kept her at home
to run riot in the streets, play with the
pauper children in the neighborhood and
mix freely with butler, groom and waiting
maids. When fourteen she learned to
read and one of her sisters taught her how
to write. Her father had a large library of
mixed books, but the collection contained
but a single novel—Fieldings “Amelia.” 
From childhood to womanhood the little


[Column 1]
Frances was picking up an education, better
than classical culture, and storing her mind
from the great book of human nature.
	She was a shy, silent child, never speak-
ing unless spoken to, but gifted with quick
observation and ready wit. Dr. Burney’s
position was peculiar, he belonged by birth
and fortune to the middle class, yet few nobles
could assemble in grand palaces, so mixed
varied and distinguished guests as flocked
to his house night after night. He had
won Johnson’s heart by praises of the
English Dictionary. David Garrick loved
him and Macaulay gives a charming picture
of Garrick in the Burney Nursery—exhibit-
ing all his power of mimicry for the amuse-
ment of the little Burneys, shuddering and
crouching as if he saw a ghost, scaring
them by raving like a maniac and then be-
coming an auctioneer, a chimney sweep or
an old woman and making them laugh ’till
the tears ran down their cheeks.
	At the Burney tea table could be found
Colman, Twining, Hawksworth, Reynolds,
Barry and the most notable men in England,
besides the most eminent musical perform-
ers of the age. The greatest Italian sing-
ers who visited England regarded his
criticisms as fatal and exerted themselves to
obtain his favor. Rapacious singers who
never opened their mouths to sing an air,
less than fifty pounds, sang night after
night for him without a fee. Thus did the
Burneys give nightly concerts, without ex-
pense surpassing those of the nobility—
upon these occasions the quiet street where
he lived would be blocked with coroneted
chariots and the little drawing room packed
with peers and ambassadors. We get a
glimpse of one of these evenings, with the
little house packed with the titled people of
the realm, the great lion of the evening, the
mighty Russian ambassador, Count Orloff,
whose gigantic figure, blazing with jewels,
while his head brushed the ceiling and the
Burney children whispering in the corner
and behind his back with mingled admira-
tion and horror, “that he was the favored
lover of his august mistress, that he had
won the chief part in the revolution to
which she owed her throne, and that his
huge hands now glittering with diamonds,
had given the last squeeze to the windpipe
of her unfortunate husband.”
	Frances was small in figure, plain in face
and not one of her father s guests dreamed
of the material, with her keen sense of the
ridiculous she was laying up, to be given to
the world, through works of fiction in after
years. As soon as she could use her pen
she began writing little stories taking off
her father’s guests, that she would read for
the amusement of herself and sisters.
When she was fifteen her father married
again, then trouble began in the Burney
camp. The new mother discovered that
her step-daughter was a scribbler, there
followed lectures and scoldings and after a
a struggle Fanny yielded and made a bon-
fire of all her manuscripts, after this she
kept a diary and corresponded largely with
the man who did more to form her mind
than all others.
	Samuel Crisp was an old friend of her
father’s years before she was born. He was
a bright star in the most splendid circles of
London, of easy fortune, well connected,
well educated, polished manners, and rare
personal charms—his taste was sought in
literature, music, painting, architecture and
sculpture; but in an evil hour, he set up for
an author, wrote a tragedy in five acts
that was of course a failure—lost his tem-

[Column 2]
per and spirits, became a cynic, retired to a
wild tract in Surrey and became a hater of
mankind. His retirement was kept a secret
known only to the Burneys. Fannie he
regarded as his daughter and taught her to
call him “father”—From his lonely home
in the mountains. this man by his letters,
directed, formed and educated her. In 1787
under the name of Grafton, a book-seller
having been found who would take the
risk Miss Burney’s first work “Evelina”
was published, she secured £20 and the
publisher netted £15000.
	The novel was an immense success. The
book had nothing but its own merit to
push it into public favor, the author was un-
known for weeks, nothing was talked of
but “Evelina” it found its way to tables
never before polluted by a novel—when it
became known that a shy, silent girl had
produced the best work of fiction that had
appeared since the death of Smollett the
literary world went wild, the author was
called the foremost writer of the day, and
the book took its place among classical
literature. At this time sprang up that
close intimacy with beautiful Mrs. Thrale,
then at the height of her power and pros-
perity—Johnson who never had noticed
Frances when taking tea with her father,
grew very proud of her, and began by pat-
ting her on the head, raising her hand to
his lips, but soon he clasped her in his huge
arms and implored her “to be a gocd girl.”
	Miss Burney’s head was never turned by
the flattery her genius had won, she seemed
to enjoy it only for the happiness it con-
fered upon her family and Father Crisp.
She next wrote a comedy “The Wittings,”
but Samuel Crisp wiser for her than he had
been for himself read the manuscript in
his lonely home in the Surrey hills and told
her she had failed, the comedy was never
brought out and never printed—“Cecelia”
was published in 1782. Miss Burney was
then thirty and clouds were gathering thick
and fast around her, she was called to the
death bed of her best friend, Father Crisp,
and returned to the bedside of Johnson who
had been struck with paralysis and lovely
Mrs. Thrale had gone down in darkness,
worse than death. Frances found a friend
in Mrs. Delany, a lady of noble family
living under the patronage of the Royal
family. While visiting her one morning, a
stout gentlemen with a star on his breast
followed by a lady entered unannounced.
A child playing on the floor set up a cry of
“the King” and scampered for a royal
caress. It was the King of England,
Mad George the third and his wife Queen
Charlotte. Miss Burney was presented
and the Royal pair conceived a great fancy
for her. His Majesty confided to her, that
Voltaire was a monster. Rosseau he liked
better but was there ever such stuff as
Shakspeare “only one must not say so.”
Frances became fascinated by these attentions
and shortly after accepted the office of
“Keeper of the Queens’ robes.” The
Edinburg Review contains a violent attack
and McMillian lets losse all his sarcasm on
this court movement. He writes that it
was a complete separation from family and
friends, that she might as well have gone
to Calcutta or to jail for libel, that the fore-
most writer of the British isles lays aside
her pen and for the next five years employs
her talent in sticking pins—mixing snuff—
and answering a waiting woman’s bell. In
1791, Miss Burney worn in body and
mind handed in her resignation and with
the greatest difficulty got it accepted. She

[Column 3]
spent a few months in travel and then mar-
ried Alexander Richard D’Arblay, a French
Artillery officer whom the revolution had
stript of his property and made an exile—
Mr. D’Arblay’s talents in a strange country
did not make him rich and the task of
providing for the family fell upon his wife.
In 1796 “Camelia” was published in five
volumes, bringing the author a handsome
sum of money, but no increase of fame.
In 1802 General D’Arblay having given in
his allegiance to Napoleon, he was reinstated
in rank and called back to France, he
moved his family to Paris where Madame
D’Arblay lived ten years. Coming back to
England in 1814, published "The Wanderers"
in 1832 published the memories of her
father and died Jan 6th 1840. She was
eighty eight years old.
	Madame D. Arblay’s fame rests upon her
earlier works, her later publications lower
her reputation. Her style under went a
gradual and most pernicious change,
unexampled Macaulay says in literary
history—she took a bad style to France, she
brought back a worse one, during the last
forty years of her life the public knew but
little of her but at the announcment of her
death a thrill ran through many an English
heart as they thought of the little brown
haired girl, that launched her bark so fear-
lessly upon the troubled literary waters of
fiction so many years ago and sailed, so
bravely from her moorings out into the deep,
without nautical rules, chart or compass, and
forgetting to use plummet or line drifted into
shallow French waters—but nevertheless
breaking the way for brains that have given
us Mansfield Park—Jane Eyre—John Hali-
fax—Daniel Deronda and the Heavenly
Twins. I. C. B.


98                   WOMANS EXPONENT


“O SUCCESS! WHAT A TRIUMPH?"

	THE W. S. A. of Parowan held an ex-
ultation meeting the evening of theseventh.
It was a general time of rejoicing. The
house was filled to o’er flowing, as it gen-
erally is at the meetings of the W. S. A.
The room was neatly decorated for the oc-
casion. After the opening exercises yellow
ribbon badges were passed to all present.
The program consisted of speeches, songs,
music from the orchestra band. Many were
called on for sentiments or expressions of
their feelings on this joyful occasion, all
responded:
	One year and three months have elapsed
since the first organization was effected in
Iron Co. We have rapidly advanced gath-
ering profit with pleasure. Have often
been told that our meetings were behind
none in the territory.
	This is largely owing to our leader.
Who,mailed in all the dignity of her call-
ing bravely meets the unceasing opposition. 
Now that we are in a new world let us not
disband. But in the strength of our union,
live to advance the race. Be minute wo-
men, and ever survive for the right. 
						J. M. L.
			Parowan, Jan. 15th, 1896.


MISS FRANCIS WILLARD writes: "The
cry of humanity is, Let the Red Cross enter
Turkey! No other means is left to us by 
which we can help our starving brothers
and sisters in that country. It is an oppor-
tunity greater, more sacred, and more per-
emptory than any that has come to a phil-
anthropic society since history began.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LIFE TEMPORAL, ETERNAL.

BY O. J. WILSON.
"The things that are seen are temporal; but the things
	which are not seen are eternal."—ST. PAUL.

Life, like the year, has its seasons,—
	Young Spring, with its fragrance and flowers.
A Summer of promise, an Autumn of fruitage,
	And Winter, with desolate hours;
And youth is the spring-time of being,
	To plow in, to sow and to plant, 
		And the harvests we gather
		Depends upon whether
We laze like the sluggard or toil like the ant.

The flowers of my spring-time have faded,
	My Summer of striving is o’er.
And I stand ’mid the fruits of the Autumn,
	Content with the beautiful store;
Yet I shrink from the chill of the Winter,
	Whose snows are beginning to fall,
		And fearfully shiver
		As I draw near the river
Whose wide-wasting waters encircle us all. 

Yet they tell me that over the river 
	Are homes which the worthy may win,
In a land of perennial beauty,
	Unsaddened by sorrow and sin;
And that there the glorified children
	Of wisdom and goodness and truth
		Meet never to sever
		But forever and ever
Shall dwell in the beauty of immortal youth.

Shall such destiny surely be ours?
	Are the tangible objects of time
But the shadows of spirit existence
	Projected from spaces sublime?
Is the unseen the only eternal?
	Through death does life truly begin?
		Is the real the ideal,
		And the ideal the real?
Is the life we are losing the life we may wiu?

Vain, fruitless all questions! No oracle answers,
	The sibyls are silent and Delphi is dumb.
But lo! from the lips of the Teacher of Zion,
	The meek and the lowly, the glad tidings come:
	“In the house of my Father the mansions are
	many;
	I go to prepare, that with me you may dwell
		In glory supernal,
		Unfading, eternal
Transcending all pleasures that mortal may tell.”

So we trust, so believe, and are happy in holding
	The faith of our fathers, who in triumph passed
	on,
Having fought the good fight in the conflict with
	evil,
	And laid down the cross but to take up the
	crown.
Then welcome, thrice welcome the snows that are
	falling;
	No longer I’ll shrink from the chill which they
	bring;
		Since over the river
		Are blooming forever
The Eden-like gardens of perpetual Spring.

Be it mine, be it thine, noble brother,
	To meet in that radiant land,
With the loved and the lovely, the lost and la-
	mented,
	Reunited, the dear ones, an unbroken band;
And ’mid genial surroundings, in glad avocations,
	By the Master, in love to us, given, 
		Solve the manifold mystery
		Of creation’s history
Through the infinite cycles of Heaven.


THE Emperor Francis Joseph has ac-
corded permission to women to study
medicine in the universities of Hungary.


[Column 1]
BEFORE IT WAS TOO LATE.

	“OH, dear me! What a long lonesome
day I see ahead of me, and peering out of
the window it really looks like storm.
What shall I do to drive away the ennui
of my life, having nothing much to do; I
have heard so much said about forming
new resolutions at this the beginning of the
New Year, and trying to do good wherever
one can see a chance of doing so, but I am
afraid nothing special ever comes my way.
Well I guess I might as well resign myself
to the inevitable. Some of the girls may
call in and old Mrs. Harvey may call to
rest on her way to see her sick daughter,
what a pleasant face and peaceful spirit she
has to be sure, it really does one good to
chat with her.”
	Mary Vernon had tarried in the morning
room after the rest of the family had left,
and thus fell to soliloquizing to herself, a
petted, spoiled child of a well-to-do family;
she had reached womanhood in possession
of many noble traits of character that were
really lying dormant for the want of arous-
ing but when brought to the test would
show her true to the heart’s core.
	“Ah! There is some one at the door
now” and hastily smoothing the folds of
her wrapper and casting a hasty glance in
the mirror opposite, admitted the visitor
who proved to be the only son and support
of a poor widowed lady, living a short dis-
tance from Mary’s home. A young man
that had assisted Mr. Vernon about the
place whenever occasion demanded.
	“Good morning Jack and a very happy
New Year to you.”
	“Good morning Miss Mary and the very
best wishes of the New Year to you.”
	“How is your mother and the children this
morning” Mary then asked.
	“Oh the children are quite well, thank
you, but mother (coloring and stammering)
is feeling a little under the weather.”
	“Indeed! Sit down Jack and tell me all
about it” offering him a chair, this Jack ac-
cepted still blushing saying, “Well it is
just this way, I have been spending my
evenings away from home of late and
mother gets lonely with no one but the
children to talk to, but few call as they don’t
speak our language, this morning she won’t
talk much, said she would leave home and
goes around looking as though she would
rather die than not, I would much rather
she would scold. I know that I ought to
have staid at home more, I feel like leaving
home myself when I see her with such a
sad look.”
	“Nonsense Jack, we will see what can
be done to make your mother more cheer-
ful.”
	They had been neighbors for some time
and Mary knew in spite of Jack’s rough,
uncouth ways that he possessed a warm,
generous heart almost to a fault and she al-
so knew that Jack’s mother, like all people,
had her own peculiarities, and one of them
was to domineer with an almost iron will,
because she knew that her son would do
almost anything rather than offend her, he
was often heard to say when some careless
person protested against his mother’s man-
ner to him “mother is getting old and be-
ing so far from her native land and relatives
I think I can well afford to be patient with
her, for I know that I would be very lonely
without her, she means well.” Jack's
father had died when he was quite young,
the mother then struggled bravely along,

[Column 2]
meeting with no great disadvantage no
more than is common with all working
people.
	Jack had now reached manhood and was
the sole support of a sister, two orphan
children and his mother, he was never heard
to murmur or to complain, but the burden
must indeed have seemed heavy at times.
	Mary sat for a few moments lost in
thought then broke the silence by saying,
“I see you are on your way to market,
glancing at his basket, while you are on
your errand, I will see what can be done,
cheer up and call on your way back.”
	The young man then took his departure,
Mary sat thinking for a little while then
went in search of her mother and younger
sister, this object gained, she held a short
consultation with them they readily agreed
to assist her in her plan and soon had gath-
ered together a few articles, then protect-
ing herself from the storm which had
already begun, she departed with a light
heart but not without some little misgivings
as to her welcome from Jack’s mother, but
she had set forth with a firm determination
to make herself happy that morning by
making others so and she was not to be
easily thwarted in her plans.
	Her heart gave a great throb of fear,
however, when the mother met her at the
door with rather a tragic looking face, but
summoning up all her courage to her aid,
she extended her hand wishing her a very
happy New Year, which the mother under-
stood and responded to, in broken English.
	Mary saw the ice was already broken, she
then picked up the little four year old girl
playing about, placing her on her lap, after
chatting with her a little, then took from
her basket a very pretty doll, a relic of her
sisters, the scream of delight from the child
more than repaied Mary for her trouble,
then next came a few toys for the boy.
	Next she soon fashioned a very pretty
lamp shade from the material she had
brought in her basket as she had heard Jack
lamenting his mother’s weak eyes. Then
came a pretty blooming plant well wrapt to
protect it from the biting frost, this caused
a cry of delight from the receiver.
	Mary then took her leave feeling assured
that she had thoroughly accomplished that
which she had set out to do.
	On her way back she bethought herself
of an invalid lady living near and calling,
comforted her with a few cheering words.
She then busied herself with straightening
up the house and making the invalid more
comfortable and after making the children
look more tidy, she then sat down taking
Longfellow's book of poems from its place
on a stand near by read in sweet, low tones,
“The Psalm of Life” and when she came
to the beautiful lines
		“Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal.”
	She felt to acknowledge to herself that
never before had she so fully realized their
beauty and significance, and she mentally
resolved that henceforth her life should not
be like that of the gay butterfly but one of
real usefulness.
	And as a few days later Jack with beaming
countenance thanked her and told of the
change in his home and of his resolve to
sacrifice more of his pleasure to make his
mother happy, she felt to thank God for
opening her eyes to the error of her ways
before it was too late.
					IDA HAAG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonp[-]reil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, AND 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
THE INAUGURATION.

	THE glad news of the Proclamation for
statehood in Utah, being issued and signed
by President Cleveland on the morning of
January, 4th, 1896, was received here with
joy and exultation, and was immediately
telegraphed all over the new State, so that
the demonstrations of rejoicing were gen-
eral. The tidings reached this city at
10 o’clock and three minutes probably the
first official business of the morning, at the
White House, which seems particularly
auspicious. The message was received
with acclamation in all that the word im-
plies. Cannons firing from the highest
points near the city, bells ringing, whistles
blowing, stars and stripes floating from all
available places, bands of music playing,
and the air, fairly echoing with shouts of
joy from the multitude. Never was state-
hood more strongly emphasized, we think,
than on that never to be forgotten day, that
brought freedom to women, as well as men,
the full rights and privileges of citizenship.
	Preparations were already in progress for
the inaugural ceremonies and military
parade on Monday, January 6th, to celebrate
the happy occasion, and for a ball to be
given in the theatre the same evening,
making the entire day a joyful as well as
a historical event.
	Early on Monday morning January 6th,
the grand celebration so long anticipated
begun, the streets were thronged with
people, thousands of visitors from other
parts of the state, beside the home popula-
tion, until it was almost impossible to pass
along the public thoroughfares.
	The magnificent procession was in charge
of Grand Marshal Robert Burton and Ad-
jutant General John Q. Cannon.
	The military parade presented an impos-
ing spectacle, bands of music, banners,
with flags, and fine horses and officers in
uniform cannot fail to produce enthusiasm
on any occasion and this was exceedingly
important, as well as historic. Foremost
among the officers from camp was General
Penrose of the U. S. A. and several others
with companies in uniform and the National
Guard conspicuous also with Brigadier
General R W. Young, Colonels N. W.
Clayton and Frank Jennings.
	Governor Heber M. Wells with head un-
covered, with the State and Territorial of-
ficers and Judges in carriages also Mayor
and City officials with other dignitaries
formed a long line followed by citizens;
There seemed to be innumerable bands of
music and many civic and secret societies,

[Column 2]
Masons, Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias,
etc., whose banners, badges and parapher-
nalia always make a fine appearance, there
was also an elaborate display of trades,
followed by carriage loads of citizens;
mounted police in uniform on either side
added to the pictorial effect. The line of
parade was on the principal streets and the
waving of flags with the martial music, the
bowing, lifting of hats, waving of hand-
kerchiefs and cheering, as one after another
was recognized by the crow[-]s who filled
the windows, piazzas, doorways and side-
walks made the affair a triumphal march,
all the way along to the great Tabernacle
where the inauguration was to take place.
	The decorations of the Tabernacle were
most unique, the great American flag,
“Old Glory” the largest ever made, covered
the entire central surface of the dome of
this vast auditorium—(its exact size is 75
by 150 feet.) The forty-fifth star for Utah
was placed in the upper corner of the flag
and an incandescent light was so arranged
as to throw its rays upon the thousands of
people who filled the galleries and body of
the house in this capacious building. From
the great flag were numberless red, white
and blue streamers running in all directions,
and joining the elaborate trimming of flags
and bunting which decorated the gallery.
All the speakers’ stands and pillars of the
house were artistically draped with the
national colors, and an immense American
eagle surmounted the tower of the great
organ under which was the name UTAH
electrically illuminated. We are happy
to say in this connection, and as a matter
of history, that a woman, Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, was the principal person in
designing and in superintending the actual
work of decorating the Tabernacle.
	On the speakers' stand were many promi-
nent citzens, among them the following:
	Presidents Woodruff, George Q. Cannon
and Jos. F. Smith, Hon. Jos. L. Rawlins,
Acting Governor C. C. Richards, Governor
Heber M. Wells, Chief Justice Zane, Judges
Miner, Bartch, King, Judd, Baskin, Com-
missioners Tatlock and Sherman, John
Henry Smith, Francis M. Lyman, A. H.
Cannon, Brigham Young, R. C. Chambers,
J. W. Whitehead, General Penrose of the
U. S. A., and numerous other army officers.
	Among the latter were Adjutant General
John Q. Cannon, Brigadier General R. W.
Young, Colonels N. W. Clayton and Frank
Jennings.
	Precisely at 12:15 Acting Governor Rich-
ards called the vast assemblage to order.
	He spoke very briefly and the substance of
his remarks was as follows: "I feel very
sensibly the great honor that the committee
ha[-]conferred upon me in selecting me to fill
this important position today. For nearly
fifty years the people of Utah have been
patiently and prayerfully waiting for this
auspicious occasion—this blessed day. Ever
since my childhood I have been taught that
the time would come when the citizens of
Utah would be accorded every political and
civil right granted to their fellow citizens
throughout the United States. Not less
than three generations of people are living
in this new State who have never cast a
vote for a President of the United States.
	Bnt on November next they will go to
the polls and exercise that privilege that all
freemen love so well. This is the proudest
day of my life, and when I say that, I but
express the feelings of at least a quarter of a
million of people who all join in saluting the

[Column 3]
new star and in giving thanks for the aban-
donment of Territorial bondage for that more
perfect government to be found under State-
hood (Applause.)
	Stirring selections of music by the
Martial Band, from Fort Douglas, were
given next which were heartily applauded.
	Acting Governor Richards announced
that President Woodruff was to have offered
the opening prayer; but on account of his
health, preventing him from doing so, he
had prepared an INVOCATION which was
delivered by President George Q. Can-
non.
	The great choir of one thousand voices
sang with unsurpassed enthusiasm, the
“Star Spangled Banner,” while flags waved
effectively and delight was apparent on the
faces of the assemblage. Tumultuous
applause by the patriotic throng filled the
building.
	Hon. Joseph L. Rawlins was introduced
amid cheers and applause and read Presi-
dent Cleveland’s Proclamation announcing
the admission of Utah, which we publish
in full.

A PRCCLAMATION.

	WEREAS, the Congress of the United
States passed an act which was approved on
the 16th day of July, 1894, entitled "An act
to enable the people of Utah to form a con-
stitution and State government and to be
admitted into the Union on an equal footing
with the original States," which act provided
for the electio[-] of delegates to a constitu-
tional convention to meet at the seat of
Government of the Territory of Utah on the
first Monday in March, 1895’ for the purpose
of declaring the adoption of the constitution
of the United States by the people of the pro-
posed State and forming a constitution and
State government for such State and,
	WHEREAS, delegates were accordingly
elected who met, organized and declared on
behalf of the people of said proposed State
their adoption of the Constitution of the
United States, all as provided in said act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention so organized,
did, by ordinance irrevocable without the
consent of the United States and the people
of said State, as required by said act, provide
that perfect toleration of religious sentiment
shall be secured and that no inhabitant of
said State shall ever be molested in person or
property on account of his or her mode of
religious worship, but that polygamous or
plural marriages are for ever prohibited; and
did also by said ordinancə make the other
various stipulations recited in sec. 3 of said
act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention thereupon for-
med a constitution and State government for
said proposed State, which constitution,
including said ordinance, was duly sub-
mitted to the people thereof at an election
held on the Tuesday next after the first
Monday of November, 1893, as directed by
said act; and
	WHEREAS, the return of said election has
been made and canvassed and the result
thereof certified to me together with a state-
ment of the votes cast and a copy of said con-
stitution and ordinance, all as provided in
such act, showing that a majority of the
votes lawfully cast at such election was for the
ratification and adoption of said constitution
and ordinance; and
	WHEREAS, the constitution and govern-
ment of said proposed State are republican
in form, said constitution is not repugnant to,
the Constitution of the United States and the


[Column 1]
Declaration of Independence, and all the pro-
visions of said act have been complied with,
in the formation of said constitution and
government.
	Now, therefore I, Grover Cleveland, Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the act of Congress aforesaid,
and by authority thereof, announce the result
of said election to be as so certified, and do
hereby declare and proclaim that the terms
and conditions prescribed by the Congress of
the United States to entitle the State of
Utah to admission into the Union have been
duly complied with, and that the creation
of said State and its admission into the
Union on an equal footing with the original
States is now accomplished.
	IN testimony whereof I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.
	(Seal-) Done at the city of Washington
this 4th day of January, in the year of our
Lord, 1896, and of the independence of the
United States of America the 120th.
				GROVER CLEVELAND.
	By the President: RICHARD OLNEY.
Secretary of State.
	At the conclusion the cheers were almost
deafening.
	Mr. Rawlins turned to Mr. Wells and
said, “and now I have the honor to present
you, Heber M. Wells the first Governor of
Utah, the pen which was used by the
President of the United States, ten minutes
before the hour of midnight, July 16, 1894,
signing the bill under which Utah has be-
come a State in the American Union. I
present it to you in order that it may be
kept among the archives of the state of
Utah.
	Anton Pederson's band played a brilliant
and thrilling selection, and received en-
thusiastic applause.
	The most soul-thrilling incident of the
day was when Acting Governor Richards
surrendered the Territorial power of the
Executive Office, as follows—
	“Pursuant to the provisions of the Con-
stitution of the new State and the proclama-
tion of the President, the hour has arrived
when the Federal government is to with-
draw from the control of the affairs of the
Territory, and to surrender it up to the peo-
ple and to the native son of Utah. It is
fitting that this should be done in this pub-
lic manner, and in the performance of this
pleasing duty, and, as the Governor of the
Territory of Utah I now surrender to your
favored servant, the Executive office, upon
his taking the oath prescribed by the Con-
stitution, which will now be administered
by the Chief Justice of the new State, the
Hon. Charles S. Zane.”
	Governor Wells took the oath as adminis-
tered by Chief Justice Zane, and at a given
signal the booming of artillery was heard
from Capitol hill and continued as the oath
was also administered by the Chief Justice
to the other state officers.
	The big chorus then rendered Stephens’s
new song, “Utah we Love Thee.”
	Secretary of State Hammond read Gov.
Wells first Proclamation convening the
Legislature at 3 o’clock of that day in the
City and County Building, and then followed
Governor Wells Inaugural Address, an able
and exhaustive document, in which he paid
a glowing tribute to the pioneers, and re- 
counted in an interesting manner the polit-
cal history of the Territory from its first
settlement until the present time including
statistics, and valuable information, and

[Column Two]
some of the main points in the new Con-
stitution.
	Governor Wells in his address did not
forget to mention the women as fellow
citizens, and we are proud to record his
good word on this subject.
	“Moderation and wisdom acquired in a
hard school are often the most valuable
possessions of nations, of states and of in-
dividuals. Let us, fellow citizens, profit by
the past and prove worthy of the trust re-
posed in us. And when I say “fellow citi-
zens,” be it remembered that from this time
forth the term includes the women of Utah
as well as the men. Says the Constitution:
	“The rights of citizens of the State of
Utah to vote and hold office shall not be
denied or abridged on account of sex.
	Both male and female citizens of the State
shall enjoy equally all civil political and re-
ligious rights and privileges.”
	In behalf of the male electors of the State,
I now extend the hand of greeting to the
qualified female voters and welcome them
to the full rights and privileges of citizen-
ship. It seems to me they are to be especi-
ally congratulated because there is no a-
bridgement of their rights; but on the con-
trary, they enter upon the domain of the
citizen under Statehood as free and indepen-
dent sovereigns. Their waiting has been
long and patient. Their triumph is all the
more complete. May the pure, ennobling
influence which they impart to the hearths
and homes of Utah be felt in the exercise of
their new duties, and may their future
use of the ballot vindicate the wisdom and
enlightenment of our law-givers.
	After the delivery of the address which
was received with cheers and applause, the
choir and the immense patriotic audience
joining rendered America, and Dr. Iliff pro-
nounced the benediction. As the people
dispersed the combined bands of music
gave “Hail Columbia” and the “Star
Spangled Banner,” amid cheers and shouts
of delight and rejoicing.
	The inaugural ball was as great a success
as the ceremonies in the Tabernacle,
although it could not be quite so dignified
and solemn. It was a sort of triumphal
closing of this historic day of days. The
elaborate display of decorations illumined
with incandescent lights produced a very
fine effect. The great blazing flag which
hung in the archway of the platform was a
“Marvel and a wonder,” a thing of light
and beauty to behold.
	It is indeed a proud day for Utah when
one of her noble sons born upon the native
soil, stands as the Chief Executive of the
new state, which was ushered in so
auspiciously, and is welcomed so gladly by
a happy, prosperous and thrifty people
anxious to promote justice, equity and the
right, and to uphold the Constitution of this
great and free American Republic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTERS TO THE GOVERNOR AND
MRS. E. B. WELLS.

			DETROIT, Mich.,
					Jan. 8, 1896.
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
	Salt Lake City:
	Dear Sir—At a mass meeting of women
held in this city yesterday to celebrate the
admission of Utah into the Union, with
full suffrage for women, I was commissioned
to convey to you the congratulations of
Detroit women that Utah has enrolled her-

[Column 2]
self among the states that guarantee to all,
within her borders, political equality with-
out distinction of sex, thus proclaiming to
the world that the children of Utah shall be
born of free mothers.
	The example of Utah must help to hasten
the day of the general enfranchisement of
women, and that happy day when intelli-
gence and morality shall altogether dis-
place brute force, ignorance and intrigue in
the government of our beloved country.
	Hoping that your high office as the first
Governor of the new State may bring honor
to your name, and that the commonwealth
under our control may experience increased
prosperity,
			I am, cordially, 
				HARRIET J. BOUTELL.
			TO MRS. WELLS.
			DETROIT, Jan. 8, 1896. 
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City:
	Dear Madame—The women of the Equal
Suffrage Association, of the Independent
Women Voters’ Association, and of the
Temperance Unions of this city, celebrated
on Jan. 7 the admission of Utah into the
galaxy of really free states. We rejoiced
that Statehood brought political freedom to
the women as well as the men of Utah, and
we predict for a State entering the Union
under such happy auspices, such prosperity
as it richly deserves. To the women of
Utah we look for such dignity and discre-
tion in the discharge of their new duties
that we may be able to point to them as
exemplars, and as an earnest of what may
be accomplished by the help of women.
We have all confidence in them, for we be-
lieve that it is the universal desire of the
woman-heart to promote justice, peace,
temperance, chastity and all that makes for
the uplifting of humanity.
	In the name of the women of Detroit, I 
send to all the women of Utah, and
especially to those who have labored for 
this great achievement, joyful congratula-
tions and hearty good wishes for the success
of all they may undertake.
			Fraternally, 
				(Mrs) H. J. Boutell.

			DENVER, Jan. 12, 1896.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	Yours received. I thank you for all your
good words to us and hope that you may
realize all you desire in your State. When
Miss Yates lectured for us in Denver, we
had our flag adorned with the third star. 
 	Shall be pleased to hear from you from
time to time.
		Very sincerely yours,
				THEODOSIA G. AMMONS.
			PHOENIX, ARIZONA,
				December 28, 1895.
Emmeline B. Wells;
	Dear Madam:—I enclose you copy of 
resolutions passed by the first Territorial 
Equal Suffrage association. held at Phoenix,
Ariz., December 6, 1895, Mrs. Laura M.
Johns, of Kansas, in the chair. We take
pleasure in informing your association that
we are now organized, and in line with, and 
auxiliary to the National association.
	Yours Truly,
			LILLIAN FRY COLLINS,
		Rec. Sec. Territorial Association

		THE RESOLUTION.
	Whereas, The women of Colorado and


dear old parents thirty seven years ago;
after procuring some relics we drove down
the old familiar hill that I used to travel
morning and night to school, the old school
house is almost what my fancy painted it
but the picturesque log school building had
given place to a modern brick structure.
What is there in the human heart that binds
us so strongly to childhood? The old
Wesley chapel and its country grave yard,
with the resting place of two of my broth-
ers, my grand parents and many other
relatives next engaged my attention.
After a week full crowded with renewed
memories I returned here Via, Cedar Grove
with its dilapidated little church and its ad-
joining grave yard, the Indian Mound &c.
which aroused my childish curiosity, and
brought many remembrances of the past.
   The weather here is so changeable and
unpleasant that I have not been able to
visit as much as I might have desired.
					R. H. DOOLAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MEETING held in the 14th Ward Nov.
16th, 1895, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing "Glorious
things of thee are spoken." Prayer by Sis-
ter M. W. Wilcox. Continued by singing
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Horne stated that our Secretary,
Sister Vilate Young had thought she would
be here today, but she must be detained,
and Sister Alder has consented to act a
little longer, when I trust Sister Young will
be back. Said she was pleased to be here
this lovely day. "We must be tried before
the Lord to see if we will stand. We must
embrace the truth for the love of it. Those
who serve God will have strength to over-
come trials. We must watch as well as
pray, and pray always. Read the counsels
of our Savior to His Apostles. We must
have these things always before us to re-
mind us of Him. I hope you will employ
the time and bear your testimony if only a
few words spoken in weakness. President
Brigham Young told us to get up parties in
this Hall as nothing had ever desecrated it.
Let us thank God for His blessings which
He has poured out upon us.”
	Sister Barrow spoke of the efficacy of prayer
and administrations of the Priesthood. Sis-
ters sang "Redeemer of Israel.” Sister
Fame said she knew this was the work of
God. Felt to rejoice in the work. I honor
my father and my mother for they have
taught us good principles.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was happy to be
here. "The sisters that come to this meeting
are the wheat. Here they learn such good
things. I love to come here, yet I enjoy
the work in the Temple most. Our religion
is first in our thoughts. I feel this is a
choice house, I have had very happy hours
here and some sad ones. I do not think
the Savior will come until pestilence and
famine passes over the earth.”
	Sister Robinson said I know that the
angels are here. When I go into the
house of the Lord, I feel that we leave all
the cares of this world behind us, I know
that this is the work of God. Made other
encouraging remarks.
	Sisters sang, "The trials of the present
day, require the Saints to watch and pray.”
	Sister Morris, said she had been away for
a while, but her heart is always here, had
been in this church for forty years, and "I
pray that I may be faithful, also that we
may be more united. May we endure to
the end.”
	Sister Larson, "I feel the sweet influences
of the Holy Spirit here. I wish to give
glory unto God, look forward for the re-
ward of the faithful. I do not want to
look backward, may we be true to our God
and to one another.”
	Sisters sang, "Let us pray gladly pray.”
	A sister in the congregation felt grateful
to her Heavenly Father for the many bless-
ings bestowed upon her. If we have faith
in the Lord we will have the blessings,”

[Column 2]
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, "I do not
think I ever bore my testimony to the truth
of this work publicly. But I feel to say
that this is the work of the Lord. If we
have trials or sickness, if we will call upon
the Lord for a blessing we will get it.”
	A sister in the congregation said she knew
that the promise of the Lord was sure, if
we bear our testimony that this is the work
of God.
	Sister Forsythe, "I feel that we must be-
come as one, so that the Lord will own us
as His.”
	Sister Hardy said she tried to serve the
Lord. "We are making a record every
day, I hope it will be a bright one. We
should trust each other. We must be hum-
ble unto the end.”
	Sister Nuttall said she feared to stand and
speak of the Lord. Had been promised
better health if she would stand and bear
testimony. Said the spirit of the Lord
was here. "I always feel to praise God
and glorify His holy name.”
	Sister Reed, "I know that the spirit of
the Lord is here, I want to live and serve the
Lord.”
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that she had been faithful unto
this day and desired to press onward day by
day.
	Sister Nunn, "I rejoice to be here today,
and I feel better than when I came here.
May we put our trust in God and serve
Him.”
	Another sister said she was thankful for
the many instructions she received in these
meetings, and desired to acknowledge, the
hand of God in all her trials.
	Sister Waterfall said she felt that Satan
was on the path, may we live faithful and
be able to come to these meetings, said she
suffered with her heart, but I know our
Father comforts us in our trouble. Told of
a vision she had. Would to God that we
might see eye to eye and be one.
	Sisters sang, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—"I feel to rejoice
in all that has been spoken today. I never
had a greater desire than I have today to
serve God, we need power from on high to
live in this day.” Spoke of a wonderful
manisfestation given to her. Said the
name, date of birth and death, was given
to her, also related a dream she had.
	Sister Sarah Phelps, spoke in the gift of
tongues. Interpretation given by Sister
Paul.
	Sister McMaster said her health had not
been good, "I have only the Gospel of
Jesus Christ to live for. I have never
doubted this Latter-day work.”
	Sister Mary Mair, "I must bear my
testimony of the truth of this Gospel.
May the Lord bless us and keep us humble.
Closing remarks by President Mrs. Horne,
announced that our stake conference would
convene four weeks from today. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Closed by sing-
ing, "Mid scenes of confusion.” Benedic-
tion by Julia Howe.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF TRAVELS.
BROOKVILLE IND. JAN. 6TH 1896.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:––I will endeavor to give
you a brief sketch of my trip or visit East. 
	I left Salt Lake City on the tenth of last

[Column 2]
October in company with my little son,
Lynne, reaching Denver the next day,
where I spent several days with my
daughter who is teaching in one of the
public schools, and my son Robbie who is
with her and attending school. I enjoyed
my stay there very much, as well as the
great Carnival in progress during our stay,
we witnessed numerous parades one par-
ticularly striking, being an evening display
of “The slaves of the silver kings.”
 	On the 19th, we took the train for Pitts-
burg, the smoky city of Pennsylvania,
having to lay over four hours at Kansas
City, I met my sister-in-law, Mrs Frank
Tower, she was much pleased to see me
“as it was the first time.” At 9 p. m. we
again moved on to the great city of St. Louis
where we remained six hours, while wait-
ing we took a carriage drive through the
principal streets to suburbs of the city in-
cluding, Forest Park, enjoyed our ride and
sights of the city very much. From here
we crossed Illinois, Indiana, my native state
and Ohio The prairies seemed exceedingly
tame and common-place after our noble
mountain scenery, but the latter two states
were crossed in the dark, we visited relatives
in Pittsburg four days and then rode out
twenty five miles to Valencia where I was
met by my only sister living, Mrs. Hannah
Bailey whom I had not seen for forty years,
as may well be imagined it was a happy
meeting. For two weeks we spent the time
in becoming acquainted as it were, when
we together started for Cincinnati. Here
we stayed three weeks with relatives. We
sat down to thanksgiving dinner with my
father’s youngest sister Mrs. R. Walker.
Her only living sister Mrs. Margaret Heap
lives in Wyoming, and is a member of our
Church, the only one, she is about eighty
six years of age. The Ohio river had so
little water in its channel that no boats were
running, so I was disappointed of riding on
the river.
	It was a wonderful sight at Pittsburg to
see the numbers of barges, awaiting a rise
that they might float to market, the two
rivers forming the Ohio were covered with
these fleets for miles.
	On the twenty ninth of November we
came to this place over the Valley Railroad,
the entire distance winding up a river valley
reaching here at 7 p. m. where we were
met by the daughter of my uncle A. C.
Miller and conducted to their hospitable
home where we received a hearty welcome
from the remainder of the family, uncle,
aunt and two other cousins. Uncle and
aunt are both past seventy and raised five
children never having had a death in the
family.
	At this place I found a cousin Mrs.
Elizabeth Bailey, who at eighty four lives
alone and attends to her property and
business. William Beesley another cousin,
after a few days drove over from the neigh-
borhood of my old home and en route we
pass the old hamlet of Mt. Carmel, the
home of the gifted poetess, M. Louisa
Chitwood, the pet of the noted George D.
Prentiss, she died at the early age of twenty-
two. Here after a few days my sister bade
me goodbye and returned to her home.
Amid these home scenes I met many rela-
tives and old friends, though a number
have passed away, and some have moved to
other parts. I visited my childhood home
and the home of my parents, emotions too
strong for utterance crowded my bosom as
I entered that good old house erected by my


On the 28th we started for home travel-
ing up the River, camped at the Beaver
Dam on the 29th and arrived home in the
evening, having traveled two hundred and
thirty miles.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was held
Dec. 14th, in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Present on the stand of the Cen-
tral Board, President Z. D. H. Young,
Counselors Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith: E. B. Wells, Sec., and Elmina S.
Taylor, Prest. Y. L. M. I. A. and Mary Ann
Hyde President of the Relief Society in
Sanpete Stake. Meeting commenced by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel, ” prayer by
Clara C. Cannon; continued singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Roll
called, forty-one branches represented.
Minutes of the morning session of the prev-
ious conference read and approved. President
Horne was more than pleased to see so many
present and so many societies represented,
we should not allow ourselves to be
negligent in attending to our duties, and in
order to have wisdom and judgment we
should come together and receive such in-
struction as should come to us from time to
time. The presidents should see that the
teachers who are really missionaries are
prompt and faithful in performing their
duties; they should never indulge in gos-
sip, and always discourage it in others as
well as the spirit of fault-finding, doing all
they can to bring harmony and peace: let
us be humble and prayerful that we may
retain the spirit and blessings of the Gos-
pel.
	Verbal reports of the different wards
were then called for; first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,
eighteenth and North Jordan Wards were
reported as being in excellent working order.
Sister E. Pixton made some very encourag-
ing remarks, and urged the sisters to warn
the mothers to look after the young, and
protect them from the many evils that are
among us.
	Meeting closed by singing Doxology.
Prayer by President M. I. Horne.
	Afternoon session convened at 2. p. m.
commenced by singing, “O ye mountains
high.” Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing,
“O say what is truth.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous confer-
ence read and approved. The Riverton,
Granite, Pleasant Green, Union, Big Cot-

[Column 2]
ton Wood, West Jordan, Center, Sandy,
Mill Creek, South Cotton Wood, Draper,
Farmer’s, Hunter and East Mill Creek were
reported.
	President M. I. Horne was greatly
pleased and encouraged with the report
which had been given and encouraged the
sisters to be constant and attentive in per-
forming their labors.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke at
some length upon the great advantage of
the work accomplished through our society,
there were very few who are so infirm but
that they can do some good to others as
well as the improvement we need for our-
selves. The Lord will strengthen us if we
will only endeavor to serve him and perform
that work which is expected of us in ad-
ministering comfort and consolation to the
distressed, afflicted and those who are cast
down.
	President M. A. Hyde said, “we have
been very highly favored in being here to-
day to hear such words of love and en-
couragement. I find the same spirit of
union among the sisters of our society
wherever I go. Yet while we are enjoy-
ing this spirit, we should not forget, that
there are many influences here in Zion, and
have a watch care over our sons and
daughters; and try to keep them pure and
spotless from the sins of the world.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said, "I trust we all
feel and realize the great blessings we have;
this is a time when we need to be prayerful,
that we may perform the important duties
which devolve upon us, we do need the
spirit of the Lord to guide us under all cir-
cumstances. How I wish all the sisters
of this stake were here today to partake of
the blessings that have been received, for
they would be better prepared to go on
with their work.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and urged the secretaries to be
prompt in sending their six months reports
in after Dec. 31st.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Meeting closed by singing, “Praise to the
man who communed” etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde.
MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.

ST. GEORGE STAKE.
Dear Sister Wells:
	Sister Juie McDonald and myself left St.
George on the 22nd, of November, in com-
pany with Bishop George F. Jarvis and
Samuel Miles, who were going as mis-
sionaries to Bunkerville, also the settle-
ments on the Muddy: we were in the in-
terest of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. It is the first
time we have visited this part of the stake,
it is a hard road, and few chances to get
there. It snowed the day we left St.
George, but we did not suffer, as we went
prepared for it; we traveled down the river
to Albert Franer’s about two miles the
other side of the Beaver Dams; here we
were made very welcome by Brother
Franer and family. There are about six
families, they have a good rock school
house and every facility for a good school
which is successfully taught by Charley
Miles. This is a thrifty settlement and a
people that know how to make a living.
It is in the north west corner of Arizona.
	On the 23rd of Nov., we left for Bunker-
ville, crossing the Rio Virgen River a great
number of times. When we were nearing

[Column 3]
Bunkerville, the braces on our carriage
tongue broke and left us in the river;
through the kindness of our esteemed friend
George F. Jarvis we were carried out, and
landed on terra firma. The brethren had
to get into the water which was anything
but agreeable We got the vehicle fixed
so it took us to Bunkerville; where we were
kindly entertained by Bishop Bunker and
family, we held a Primary meeting, here
we met a nice lot of children. In the even-
ing the reorganization of the Relief Society
was effected and we put them in a position
to do business the same as the other as-
sociations.
	The 24th, Sunday, we met with the sab-
bath school and found the young people
quite progressive, the afternoon meeting
was well attended, a good spirit prevailed,
at the close we met with the Relief Society
and we felt well to meet with the sisters
here and talk over their interests. They
own a lot containing an almond orchard
also a granary, and something over a
hundred bushels of wheat. We advised
them to make what improvements they
could, and turn their almonds into grain,
and store it against the time of need, as
that time is surely coming, that the prophets
have spoken of. The 25th, we started for
the Muddy, here we got a spring wagon
from Father Bunker, left our carriage to be
fixed, traveling down the river some dis-
tance, turning to the right we ascended a
hill, and traveled over a very barren
country. We next came to the famous
Virgen hill, we recognized the hand of the
Lord in our carriage breaking in the river
instead of this hill, as it would have been
sure death to some of our party; it looks as
if the country had been burnt all over,
there is nothing living or growing on it but
some Joshaways, that look like sentinels
with their arms stretched out.
	About eight o’clock we arrived at St.
Joseph and were entertained by Brother
Huntsman and family, who had a very
sick child.
	On the 26th, we met with the people of
this settlement and organized a Relief
Society and Primary. Sister Juie enter-
tained the children with the exercises, she
has the happy faculty of creating an inter-
est in them that is pleasing. At Overton
on the 26th, the missionaries held a meet-
ing in the afternoon with the people when
a reorganization of the Relief Society was
effected. In the evening we met with the
primary at Sister Johnson’s house, she is
president of the association, we had a very
interesting time, here we found more boys
than girls. This is a rare occurrence.
Bishop Jones honored us with his presence
at this meeting, which we appreciated.
	On the 27th, we continued our journey
to St. Thomas, where we met with the
people, and organized a Relief Society,
Mutual and Primary associations. The
people seemed pleased to have these or-
ganizations, and we trust they will be alive
to their duties. We know there is a bless-
ing in doing our duty Here we found
Sister Mary Bunker very sick, she was a
very estimable young woman. I think she
had only been married to Brother John
Bunker about two months, she is a
daughter of Brother Luke Syphus of Pan-
acca; she died a few days after we were there.
We feel to sympathize with the bereaved
ones in this affliction; we spent the night
with Brother Whitney and family, who
made us very welcome.


of Utah have recently been admitted to full
enfranchisment, therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we extend to them our
hearty congratulations upon their promotion
to full citizenship; and also that we hereby
endeavor to express our gratitude to the
men of those states for that justice done wo-
man, and our admiration for the manliness
and courage of their action.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	SISTER DORINDA M. SLADE died Nov. 21st,
1895, at the residence of her daughter Eliza A.
Lloyd, after a lingering illness of eight months.
She fell on the ice and broke her arm on the 26th
of March last, and has been confined to her bed
ever since; although her arm was perfectly healed
before her death.
	She was born Jan. 15th, 1808, joined the church
in the fall of 1850, came to Utah in 1856, moved
to Dixie in 1857, and settled in Pine Valley in
1858. She was elected president of Pine Valley
Relief Society, April 1st, 1873, which position she
held until Sept. 16th, 1894, a period of over
twenty one years and resigned at this time on ac-
count of failing health.
	She was the mother of eight children only three
of whom are now living, but she lived to see the
fifth generation of her posterity.
	Dear Sister Slade has now left us, she has gone
to Heaven above, it is God who has bereft us of
her whom we dearly love. In the Relief Society
she has been true and has worked as none bnt
she could do. We shall miss her, yes miss her
one and all; but on our Father in Heaven we
must call. It is hard to part with loved ones,
but God knows what is best, and we must put
our trust in Him then He will do the rest. Her
loved name will never perish, her good deeds
we’ll ever cherish. She has gone from before
our face, a moment’s time, a little space.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Pine Valley Relief Society
to the memory of Dorinda M. Slade.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action, our beloved ex-presi-
dent Dorinda M. Slade.
	Resolved that we do recognize in the death of
Sister Slade the loss of an energetic, faithful and
reliable friend. A comforter in the hour of
trouble, a devoted wife and mother and a true
Latter-day Saint, that we esteem her faithful
labors and devotion to the cause of Zion as
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
	Resolved that we do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family and friend.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of the Pine Valley Relief Society and
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXZONENT.
ANN R. SNOW, President.
LENORA C. GARDNER,
EMMA L. BURGESS,
BERNELLA E. GARDNER.
Committee{ ["Committee{" is written to the right of the above three lines]

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	In loving remembrance of Dena Louisa,
daughter of Lars L. and Rendena Olsen, who de-
parted this life Saturday, November 16th, 1895, at
the residence of her parents in Santaquin; aged
fourteen years, eight months and eighteen days.
Summoned by the angel death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers
and sisters. She was beloved, by all who knew her
and in the Primary Association, she was always
ready to respond to every call.

Dear one we shall think of thee,
	For many years to come;
Thy smiling face we ne’er shall see.
	For God has called thee home.
Why do we mourn? She is not lost,
Beyond the river she has crossed,
And on that bright, celestial shore,
Our loved one waits the coming o’er.

	We as officers and members of the Primary
Association unanimously adopt the following
resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the parents, brothers
and sisters in their heavy bereavement and we
tender them our heartfelt sympathy.
	Resolved that we adopt these resolutions as a
token of respect, that we present a copy to her
parents, and publish the same in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and place a copy on onr records.
ELIZABETH WALL,
LAURA LEVANDER,
MARY ECKERSLEY.
Committee{ ["Committee{" is written to the right of the above three lines]


MARY L. P. TEASDALE.

	WE have all been painfully shocked at the loss
of our beloved sister Mary Loretta P. Teasdale,
the first counselor to President Dora W. Pratt, of
the presidency of the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Associations of the Juarez Stake of
Zion, and president of the Stake presidency of
the Primary Associations who has been so faithful
and devoted in her much appreciated labors.
Sister Teasdale has been ailing for some time but
would not give up, but during the last five weeks
she had been confined to her room, faithfully
waited on by her family and Sister Phoebe I.
Allred, her nurse. All that affection could sug-
gest in help given and faithful administration and
fervent prayers were offered in hopes her life and
usefulness might be continued on earth, but it
has pleased our Father in heaven to take her
from this probationary estate to labor in a brighter
and higher sphere.
	Sister M. L. P. Teasdale was born May 26th,
1863, at Nephi, Juab county, Utah. She was the
daughter of James and Jane Picton. She has al-
ways been devoted to the cause of the Redeemer.
Nearly four years of her life was spent in the
Liverpool office and many of the missionaries
will remember her kindly services. She had been
a devoted laborer in the Mexican mission in the
Relief Society, Young Ladies Improvement and
Primary Associations, advocating the principles of
the everlasting Gospel and bearing a faithful
testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the establishment of the
Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth in these
last days. She was an intelligent woman well in-
formed in the doctrines of Christ and the Bible
and Book of Mormon Scriptures, and the life of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her lectures were al-
ways interesting and instructive.
	Her funeral obsequies were held on Sunday,
Dec. 15th, in the Jaurez ward school house. The
officers and members of Y. L M. I. and Primary
Associations met at her residence and the children
sang the Primary hymn, “Great Shepherd of the
Sheep.” Then a procession was formed to the
school house. Bishop George W. Sevey presided.
The house was filled to overflowing, the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ Improvement and Primary
Associations being fully represented with all the
officers and members. The choir sang the
hymn: “Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
their wearied bodies down.” Patriarch William
R. R. Stowell offered prayer. Choir sang: “It is
well.” Counselor Miles P. Romney and Elder
Edward Stevenson preached the funeral discourse.
Their remarks were full of consolation and en-
couragement, as they testified to the faithful
labors of the departed, the value of a well spent
life and the certain recompense of reward in a
glorious resurrection. The choir sang: “Nearer
my God to Thee.” Benediction was pronounced
by Elder Miles P. Romney. Then the congrega-
tion took a last look at the calm, pale face of the
deceased, and a long procession followed to the
graveyard, where the body was consigned to the
tomb, Bishop George W. Sevey offering the
dedicatory prayer.
	A great deal of affectionate sympathy and con-
dolence have been manifested to the family by the
Saints, for her loss is a public one, she was be-
loved by all.
UN ERMANO.


OBITUARY.
	DIED Nov. 10th, 1895 in the Sixth Ward, Salt
Lake City, Utah, at her residence, Elizabeth Lee
Britton, at the age of seventy-five years, eleven
months and nine days.
	Deceased was born in Southam, Warwickshire,
England, on the 19th, of December 1819. She
was married to Elder Britton, 21st of April 1837.
Was baptized and confirmed into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, June 27, 1847.
With her husband and children left her native
land 9th of June 1851; after enduring many hard-
ships during the voyage arrived at New Orleans:
June 15th, 1851, arrived at Council Bluffs remain-
ing there nine months, during which time she suf-
fered from fever and ague; June 6th, 1852 she with
her husband and children, came to Salt Lake
City making their home in the Sixth Ward, where
she resided up to the time of her demise. She
was set apart to act as second Counselor to
President Fulmer in the Relief Society. March
1st, 1883, after the death of President Fulmer,
first Counselor Isabella West being chosen as
President, Sister Britton was chosen as first
Counselor to her in the Relief Society, to which
office she was set apart, Oct. 5th, 1892, which
position she filled at the time of her death. She


has ever been faithful in the discharge of her
duties; possessed of a kind and generous heart,
won many true friends.
	She was never tired of bearing testimony to
the divinity of the mission of Prophet Joseph
Smith and the truth of the gospel. Bishop J. C.
Watson spent many hours with her during her
illness and her testimony of the truth never
wavered, but left an impression on her children and
on those who ministered to her wants to the end.
	She was the mother of thirteen children
had fifty-four grand-children, and twenty-
one great-grand-children.
	Beloved of those who knew her she now rests
in peace awaiting the resurrection of the just.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To Elizabeth Lee Britton who departed this
life Nov. 15th, 1895, we her co laborers in meeting
assembled deem it fitting that we record our ap-
preciation of her labors.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved counselor
and friend, Sister Britton.
	Resolved that we do recognize in her death the
loss of a kind faithful counselor and friend; a
comforter in time of trouble, also a true Latter-
day Saint, a devoted wife and mother. We es-
teem her faithful labors and devotion to the gos-
pel as worthy of emulation to every member of
our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved children and friends, in the loss of a
loving and devoted mother and sincere friend and
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of the Sixth Ward Relief Society and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, also one 
to her friends.
					ELIZABETH W. CONDIE


THE HEART HAS AN EYE.
“Don’t talk so silly” the wise man said
And the words made the darling cry
Then out from his heart there came a look 
Which quick her tears did dry.
Then their lips met together and music made
Like a singing bird flying by
For love she saw behind the words
Saw him plain with her own hearts eye.
For the heart has an eye of such wondrous
power
That it sees far beyond the light
And what to the eyes of the head seem dark,
To the eye of the heart is bright.
				IRENE ACKERMAN.


UNDER the heading “Only a Woman,”
the New Orleans Picayune thus justly and
succinctly comments upon the latest case of
lynchiug:
	The burning to death of a defenceless
woman who was about to become a
mother, by an armed mob of fifty men,
near Lebanon Ky., was one of the most
brutal and cowardly crimes that ever black-
ened the fair fame of a civiliz d community.
	The woman's sin was unfaithfulness to
her husband.
	If a mob of women shonld go about
the country burning all the men who are
unfaithful to their wives what an illumina-
tion there would be! The very heavens
would be lighted up.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1896. NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Zina D. H. Young—E. B. W. Anniversary
Party. In The Interest Of Health—Charles
Emerson. U. W. P. C.—E. R. Shipp. The
Third Star—Woman’s Tribune. Relief Society
Reports—Emmeline B. Wells. Extracts From
Mrs. C. M. Allen’s Letter. The Washington
Convention. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
Zina Hyde. Rejoicing At Huntsville. R. S.
Reports. Notes And News. Conference N. A.
W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Three Quarters Of A Century.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Mrs. Zina D. H. Young—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. In The City Of The Dead—
Lydia D. Alder.


[Column 1]
TO MRS ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

MUSIC and light and warmth tonight
	Greet thee with language manifold,
Where first thine eyes beheld this spot
	A desert, desolate and old;
No roof of art shielded thy head,
	Nor music—save the wild birds voice,
Night sank and darkness hung around
	Yet even then thou did’st rejoice.

For then, a Prophet’s voice proclaimed
	It chosen ground, where peace and rest
Should guard his people till they grew
	In strength, with homes and power possessed
’Twas solitude, yet fear ne’er came
	To break their slumbers; 'round them rose
The harvest yield to bless their need,
	Where long had reigned but waste and snows.

Though unforgotten, kindred, homes,
	And sorrows knit in blood and tears,
Faith wrought its daily steadfast task
	And gathered strength with passing years.
Though famine came, God heard their prayers
	And white winged flocks in answer sped;
They stayed the foe, and Israel
	Gathered the manna and the bread.

Within tbeir lowly cabin walls
	The mothers sang their cradle songs,
The years sped on, and ere they knew,
	Their scanty numbers swelled to throngs,
And these outspreading, woke to life
	The sleeping valleys by each stream,
O’er mountain ranges far away,
	Their growth, their blessings, like a dream.

Fair Utah cannot hold the tide
	Of human life that God so sent,
Thou hast beheld them on the Isles,
	They dot the farther continent;
And to and fro God’s messengers
	Bear forth His Gospel and return,
For this is Zion; all the earth
	Her wond’rous story yet shall learn.

From ev’ry Saint that dwelleth here,
	From Saints that long this land to see,
This Day is wafted heavenward
	Remembrances and prayers for thee.
From weary march and roofless camp
	Unto the Temples famed and grand,
Thy feet trod first the barrenness
	And to His houses lent thy hand.

And thou hast gained that higher gift
	That worldly wisdom cannot teach,
Tongues of the vanished speak to thee,
	Thine inner sight, beyond doth reach.

[Column 2]
Thou hast been mother unto more
	Than thine own children, and the name
“Mother in Israel" is thine own
	And all who love thee share a claim.

Linked with this dispensation is
	Thy hist’ry from its earliest date,
In ev’ry Temple thou hast wrought
	Salvation for the small and great.
O, souls redeemed in other spheres!
	If thou hast knowledge of this day,
Join in our love and praise of her
	Who led from prison world thy way.

May mightiest love from higher, life
	Blend with our love and prayers below,
And heavenly power attend thy days
	While still on earth thy face we know;
Still drawing nearer to the source
	Thy listening soul learn holier love,
Till—passing—memory keeps thy name
	In Earth and Heaven, forever more.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Jan. 22nd, 1896.


[Column 1]
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF HER LIFE AND
LABORS.
	ON the 31st day of January, yester-
day, Sister Zina D. H. Young reached
the age of seventy-five years. “Aunt
Zina,” as the Latter-day Saints love to call
her, was born January 31, 1821, in Water-
town, Jefferson county, New York, and
comes of goodly parentage. Her father
was William Huntington, her mother Zina
Baker, whose father was one of the first
physicians in New Hampshire. Her mater-
nal grandmother was Dorcas Dimock,
“descended from the noble family of Dim-
ocks whose representatives held the heredi-
tary knight-championship of England;
instance: (Sir Edward Dymock, Queen
Elizabeth’s champion).” Mrs Young’s father
served in the war of 1812; Samuel Hunting-
ton, one of the signers of the Declaration of
Independence, was the uncle of her grand-
father, Wm. Huntington, a revolutionary
soldier. The family were directly descend-
ed from Simon Huntington, the Puritan
emigrant, who sailed for America in 1633,
but died at sea leaving three sons and a
widow, who were registered in Roxbury,
Mass. Wm Huntington, the grandfather,
married Presendia Lathrop, and was one of
the first settlers in the Black River valley,
northern New York.
	The Hu[-]tingtons embraced the gospel at
Watertown, New York and Zina Diantha
was baptized by Patriarch Hyrum Smith
August 14, 1835, and soon after went to-
Kirtland with her father’s family. In Kirt-
land she received many blessings and mani-
festations, the gift of tongues, and of
interpretation; she heard an invisible choir
of angels singing in the Kirtland Temple,
and was present at the memorable Pentecost
when the spirit of God filled the Temple,
like a mighty rushing wind. Sister Zina
was a member of the Kirtland Temple choir.
	With her father’s family Sister Zina
passed through the terrible persecutions in
Missouri of which there is not time to tell.

[Column 2]
	Like many other exiles they succeeded in
reaching Commerce, afterwards called Nau-
voo, where the Saints suffered so much.
	At this place Sister Huntington, the mo-
ther, died, a martyr to suffering from the
mobbings and drivings.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina became a member
of the first Relief Society organization, little
dreaming what would be in the future, and
how great the work would become. When
the Nauvoo Temple was ready for ordinan-
ces she received her blessings and endow-
ments therein.
	She left Nauvoo with the Saints in the
month of February, 1846, with the first
company, crossing the Mississippi river on
the ice. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, where the
exiles stopped and made a resting place, her
father was taken sick and died. She re-
mained in Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river, until 1848, when she started for the
valley; beginning the journey in May,
reached the valley in September.
	When the Relief Society was established
in Utah, Sister Zina was chosen as treasurer
of the first society in the Eighteenth ward,
where she resided. Some years after, when
Sister Eliza R. Snow was called by Presi-
dent Brigham Young to assist in organiz-
ing in wards, Sister Zina was also called
by the President as Counselor to Sister Eliza,
and she was associated with her in the la-
bors of the Relief Society and traveled in its
interest during Sister Eliza’s lifetime.
	In the silk industry Sister Zina has been
indefatigable and zealous, laboring as no
other woman in this Territory has done, to
establish sericulture. she has raised co-
coons herself, and had charge of President
Young’s large cocoonery and mulberry
orchard. In June, 1876, when a silk
association was organized Sister Zina was
elected President, and she has traveled the
length and breadth of the Territory in its
interest.
	Sister Zina also took a course of medical
studies under Dr. Willard Richards in the
early days in the valley, and became familiar
with the practice among women, and has
given numerous lectures on the subject of
nursing, hygiene and other kindred topics.
	She has traveled as extensively among
the people and spoken as many times as any
other woman and perhaps even more. She
has a rare faculty of ministering to the sick
and sorrowing, and is often alluded to as
“Aunt Zina the Comforter;” having such
intense sympathy, added to the gift of heal-
ing, which she seems naturally to possess.
	Her presence in the sick room is always
soothing aud uplifting to the afflicted.
	Sister Zina is an inspirational impromptu
speaker; her speeches, in mass meetings a[-]d
and on various great occasions, have been
widely circulated by newspaper reporters.
	She holds her audience without an effort
by her natural eloquenoe.
	In 1879 she visited the Sandwich Islands.
During this trip she met many noted people.
The same fall she accompanied Sister Eliza
to St. George. There they labored in the
Temple, and among the sisters’organiza-
tions, held meetings, traveled over a thou-
sand miles, often camping out over night.


[Column 1]
In 1881 she visited relatives in New York
and Vermont and collected genealogical
records of her ancestry; and while away
often spoke in Sunday schools and temper-
ance meetings, and conversed with many
celebrated divines; attended the Woman’s
congress at Buffalo and a National Suffrage
Convention in New York city. Sister Zina
also assisted the Elders in organizing a
Relief Society at Cohoes, New York, dur-
ing that visit.
	In 1882, when the Deseret Hospital was
established, Sister Zina was chosen vice
president, and occupied the arduous position
for twelve years; the same year she attend-
ed the National Suffrage Convention in
Omaha, and visited relatives in St. Joseph,
Mo. At this convention she made the ac-
quaintance of several celebrated women,
May Wright Sewall, Phoebe Cousins, and
others, also Susan B. Anthony, whom she
had already met here on her first visit to
Utah in 1870, and afterwards in New
York. Sister Zina has continued her labors
among the people and in the house of the
Lord without ceasing year after year, and
thousands rise up and call her blessed. She
was for thirty years and even more, a dili-
gent Sunday school teacher.
	After the decease of Sister Eliza R. Snow
in December 1887, Sister Zina being her
first counselor, continued acting president
until April, 1888, when she was called by
President Wilford Woodruff and set apart
to preside over the Relief Society. In 1891,
the Relief Society became formally connect-
ed with the National Council of Women of
the United States, which entitles the presi-
dent to the position of vice-president in this
great council. In 1893, when the congress
of representative women from all the world
met in the Art Palace in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair, Mrs. Young was
present and had the privilege and the right
of taking part in the important proceedings.
She also held a meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety in one of the halls of the Art Palace,
which attracted much attention. At this
meeting Isabella Beecher Hooker, Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon and other celebrities were pre-
sent, and some of them requested the privi-
lege of speaking. On the Sunday follow-
ing at the services in the large hall, Mrs.
Young was seated upon the platform with
fourteen women ministers of different de-
nominations, conversing freely with them
after the service upon the principles of
our faith. She also attended the Congress of
Charities and Philanthropies, of which she is
vice-president. Mrs. Young’s labors have
been unceasing and though she has reached
such a great age, her usefulness is not dim-
nished, but increases as the field of her
labors widens out, and develops more and
more. Her entire time is given in the ser-
vice of the Lord, in the duties of her calling
in the Relief Society and to the ministra-
tions in the Temple, where she has been
called to preside over the sisters—a long and
a beautiful life, of which scarcely the bare
outlines are given here. Sister Zina is de-
cidedly, a woman of the people, beloved by
the Saints for her many excellent qualities,
her integrity to the Gospel and her abundant
charity.
	We have only spoken of Sister Zina here
as a public woman in the capacity of a
missionary laboring among the sisters, but
her home life has been equally exemplary
and successful. She is tender and motherly
in her nature, and though she has not had a
large family of her own (two sons and a

[Column 2]
daughter) she has several children who call
her mother, now grown to manhood and
womanhood, to whom she has given the
same loving attention as to her own, and
who love and reverence her in return as do
her own.
	Sister Zina became the wife of the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and after his
death was married to Brigham Young. It
is impossible to enter into details in a news-
paper article. Volumes might be written
of Sister Zina—her name has gone far and
wide, and she is known everywhere for her
good works; no woman in the Church is
better known or more highly respected, and
not only at home but abroad, she is appro-
priately designated a mother in Isreal, which
she is in very deed. E. B. W.


IC 6			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ANNIVERSARY PARTY.

	On the morning of Sept. 1st, 1895, the
Saints of Farr West and many of the
realitives and friends of our worthy Bishop
W. F. McEntire and his estimable wife
met to celebrate the sixtieth birthday, also
their fortieth wedding anniversary; the
ward clerk had the bishop very busily en-
gaged in looking over the ward records,
and his wife was busy preparing dinner as
she had invited her family and some friends
to take dinner with them. While this was
going on the crowd met and formed in line,
headed by the band, next the Relief Society
then relatives and friends and marched to
their residence, the band struck up a lively
air which aroused all in the house, the
Bishop opened the door to see what it
meant, threw up his hands and exclaimed,
“I’ll surrender.” After the shaking of
hands all proceeded to the hall, where two
tables were spread full length of the hall,
loaded with the bounties of life, then the
worthy couple were presented each with a
beautiful rocking chair; also a handsome
photograph album, and were then seated at
the head of the tables, after all were seated
Brother Peter Slater read an orginal poem
composed by himself very applicable for the
occasion.
	After lunch was over, a program was
rendered, first being music from the band,
Hon. D. H. Peery next addressed the as-
sembly, said he was happy to meet with so
many of his old friends and acquaintances
on this happy occasion, congratulated the
Bishop and his wife, spoke of his long ac-
quaintance with them, and of their many
good traits of character, thanked the sisters
for the good dinner, also thanked the band
for the excellent music Ex. Bishop, P.
G. Taylor of Harrisville, said God bless
you all, spoke many words of praise in be-
half of our bishop and wife and many
words of encouragement to all.
	Our bishop then responded, thanked all
very kindly, said we are all brothers and
sisters in very deed, "my whole heart and
soul is poured out toward all. May God
bless you,  amen.” Music by the band,
song by Lucinda Stephenson, “Shall we
gather at the river.” Recitation by Mrs.
Heber Holland, Brother Jacob Thomas
thanked all, and hoped we might have
many more snch occasions, it was indeed a
beautiful day as the sun was shining
brightly and all went off as bright and de-
lightful as the day.
	MARY A. STEPHENSON, Prest.
	MELINDA J. RAWSON, Sec.
Farr West Jan. 18, 1896.


IN THE INTEREST OF HEALTH.
From Woman's Tribune:– 
	HERE I send you another instance of
women being in advance of their brothers,
in care of the health of their families and the
public health.
	Several years since I was talking with a
business woman who, with her sisters, has
long conducted a millinery and also a dress-
making establishment. I had placed stress
upon the need of great care in the handling
of paper money, which passes through
"everybody’s" hands and wallets, and re-
marked that I frequently found it so objec-
tionable that I wrapped it in fine, clean
paper before placing it in my purse, and
added that it really needs disinfection. She
told me that for some years she had carbolic
acid in the till where the money is kept,
and thought they had really protected them-
selves from disease in this manner. Last
year I inquired of several bankers if they
used such precautions. Two of them re-
plied they had never done so, but the answer
from the last replying I send you.
	Dear Madam: Your note of the 19th inst.
is at hand. In reply, would say that we
have not made it a practice to disinfect
paper money or papers until recently. At
this time we consider the practice a protec-
tion to ourselves here in the bank and also
to the public at large. Respectfully yours,
	“CHARLES EMERSON, Ass’t Sec y.”
Cath. A. F. Stebbins, Detroit, Jan. 14, '96.


PERSONS sending twenty-cents to Harriet
Taylor Upton, at Hotel Arno, Washington,
D. C., will receive copies of the daily papers
for the week of the Convention.
MRS. DEBORAH REED, eighty-eight
yearsold,of Attleboro, Mass., voted “yes’’ on
the referendum. She writes to a grand-
niece in Oakland, Cal.: “It seems that
some women stand squarely in their own
light, and do not want their rights; so
those who do must wait awhile. Equal
suffrage will come sometime, though in the
not far distant future.”
THE social side of parliamentary life in
England, set forth by Mrs. Humphrey
Ward in her new novel in The Century,
“Sir George Tressady,” will be a revela-
tion to American readers. With the dinner
parties in Parliament Buildings and open-
air receptions on the Thames Embankment,
it presents a picturesque contrast to
American Congressional customs. 
QUEEN CHRISTINA of Spain has been
chosen arbitrator to settle a long standing
dispute over the boundary lines of Colum-
bia, Equador and Peru. This is the first
time in the history of the world that a wo-
man has been chosen to settle an inter-
national dispute. Her administration of
Spanish affairs has been characterized by
tact and statesman-like ability, controlled 
by high moral principle; and not the least
of her claims to admiration is the fact that
she has maintained peace in a country pro-
verbial for being in a state of constant un-
rest and turmoil. The peace, movement in
Europe has not yet evolved anything more
beautiful than the sentiment expressed by
Madame Potonie Pierre in the manifesto
sent by the French women to their sisters
of the German Peace Society: “The planet
is too small to permit of mankind destroy-
ing each other in any corner of it. — Wo-
man's voice.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN THE CITY OF THE DEAD.

A REVERIE.
I WALK in the darkening twilight,
	In the City of the Dead;
Whose streets so drear and silent,
	With autumn leaves are spread.
The wind is gently moaning,
	Dark clouds are overhead;
The sacred spot's deserted
	This City of the Dead.

I feel alone as I wander
	Tho' my loved sleep all around;
With trembling heart I view each spot,
	For this is holy ground.
I think of the trials and crosses
	That sadden the fairest life;
All now is peace and quiet:
	This is the end of strife.

So pensive I dream and wonder
	Where are the thousands now
Who sleep this sleep of silence,
	On the lonely hillside's brow?
Where are the broken-hearted
	Who wept on the lonely sod
When they laid away the loved ones
	When they bowed beneath the "Rod?"

Here in their turn they're resting,
	The young, the blithe, the gay,
And await the great redemption
	Of a Resurrection Day.
Here in God's great acre,
	Come the weary and distressed,
And in their turn are laid so low,
	Where none can mar their rest.

Here bitter tears are shed for them,
	We loved so long and dear;
The breast where laid our infant head,
	Our friends and kindred near.
Here manly youth and maiden fair,
	Are wrapped in death's embrace,
But the hearts that loved, for them cry yet,
	Time cannot grief efface.

Here too the babe whose days were few,
	Who came, then sighed and went,
A beauteous flower from Paradise
	To a sad, cold world was sent.
Just opening wide bright, wondering eyes,
	Where the light of angels shone;
Then sighing closed them gently down
	To gain a better home.

And here the aged come to rest,
	Here lay their bodies down;
For them no more is living sweet,
	Their hands reach for a crown.
They've lived a life of righteousness
	With prayer have sought their God,
And now at eve they go to rest,
	Beneath the grass grown sod.

Here in his prime the strong man lies,
	Here too the young wife's laid,
The cry of children oft goes up,
	From a mound that's newly made
Sad orphans roam the wide world o'er
	They cry for the loved in vain,
The throbbing hearts are silent now,
	They cannot beat again.

All ties are severed that ever bound;
	Death levels every one:
One tries in vain to bind them up,
	The work of man's undone.
The youth lives on, the bride is dead,
	The bride lives on the youth is gone;
The mother spent her life in vain,
	Here lies the little one.

And now to friendship drop a tear,
	For friends dwell here at last;
And like a day's forgetfulness,
	Seems the story of the past.

[Column 2]
O, aching heart. O, the throbbing brow,
	With weight of grief oppressed,
Come, view the spot where deep below
	The weary heart can rest.

Sleep on, sleep on the sleep of death,
	Ye folk of other days,
'Till Christ the Lord shall call you up
	To meet His Heavenly gaze.
O, hearts that grieve, O. hearts that mourn,
	The loss of loved ones dead,
Yet know "What life is to the living,"
	So "Death is to the dead."

They've crossed the river, the race they've won
	O, call them not again,
To a world of parting such as this
	Of sorrow and of pain.
For up and down the wide world o'er
	We hear the sad refrain,
Where is the world so fair and bright
	Where loved ones never part again?

A light thro' the long dark night is given,
	It anon flashes over the way,
O, pilgrim so weary of life's sad load,
	Press in 'tis Eternal Day—
There is rest for the weary ones at last
	Where never a tear is shed;
There's rest when the journey of life is past
	Among the silent dead.

All paths meet here, tho' wide they roam,
	Here is the place of rest,
And all sleep well the sleep of death,
	Like babe on mother's breast.
Thank God for the Gospel's joyful sound,
	Thank Him for a prophet's voice;
That tells of a world where the lost are found,
	Where dwell the loved of his choice.

Its golden spires are glittering high,
	Its music is wafting low;
"Come to Me, come to me, ye weary of earth
	For I have loved you so."
"I have made you a home of Jasper stones,
	And hung its walls with gold"—
Then the love of the great Eternal One,
	Will your trembling forms enfold.

"A gorgeous home I have made for you,
	In this glittering world on high,
Your loved ones are waiting to welcome you
	Come, come, they are drawing nigh.
Here the sun does not darken at the close of day,
	Here the breezes are coy and sweet"—
And the love of the Father is over all
	For here the loved ones meet.

Then heart be thou still, cry out no more!
	Thy jewels are shining there,
In gladness they tread the golden streets,
	And offer for thee a prayer.
Now hark! Through the gathering gloom
	Hear the angel voices tell,
"Daughter arise, thy cross take up,
	With thy loved ones all is well."
LYDIA D. ALDER
Oct 15th, 1895.


U. W. P. C.

	By special invitation the Utah Woman’s
Press Club held their December meeting at
the residence of Mrs. I. Cameron Brown.
President E. B. Wells presided in her usu-
ally dignified manner, calling the meeting
to order, and for invocation by Mrs. M. A.
Freeze. The members answered to roll
call by original sentiments.
	Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox read in her sweet im-
pressive manner an interesting paper on
Margaret Fuller, which was followed by a
song by Miss Pearl Russell.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden then gave in her
inimitable style a humorous recitation.


By special request our amiable hostess
Mrs. Brown, favored the club with a unique
and entertaining paper on the life and
works of Frances Burney.
	The names of Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings,
Mrs. Rachel S. Miller, and Dr. Ola R. Curtis
were presented for membership and the
vote carried unanimously.
	In behalf of the club an expression of
thanks was given by the President to Mrs.
Brown, who has upon different occasions
entertained the club so generously.
	Following the literary exercises dainty
refreshments were served in the most artis-
tic manner, “intermingled with a flow of
reason and a feast of wit,” for the musical
hum of voices kept time with the rattle of
china and the pleasant reunion closed with
many a cordial grasp of hands that never
met before, and all felt that heart came close
to heart and soul communed with soul.
E. R. SHIPP, Sec.


THE THIRD STAR.

	THE President’s Proclamation of the
Statehood of Utah issued January 4th, was
the occasion of a triumphal holiday all over
Utah and of a great demonstration in Salt
Lake City. The new Governor, Heber M.
Wells, did not forget to extend the hand of
greeting to the women who are now voters.
	There are no women in the United
States better fitted to exercise the right of
suffrage than the women of Utah. They
are accustomed to manage great enterprises
as witness their Relief Associations they
are thrifty, industrious, and simple and
sincere in tastes and habits. When voters
before they contributed to good local gov-
ernment. Since that time they have joined
hands with the women of the Suffrage As-
sociation, with the World’s Fair work and
in that union of all ties the National Coun-
cil, and in each capacity they have demon-
strated their earnestness and ability.
	Then too, there is something of poetical
justice that their rights should be accorded
them while as yet there are some to enjoy
it who helped to lay the foundations of their
prosperous commonwealth. In all that has
gone to making the desert-blossom like the
rose, the women of Utah have borne their
full share of workers, and that large share
of endurance and of sacrifice which in one
shape or another has always been the lot of
woman. Think of it, there are some still
left to exercise their tardily acquired right
who pushed their handcarts with their
babies and their bundles in them those
weary miles across the Great American
Deseret. The early Mormon women were
very largely of New England birth, and
they have gloried in having emulated the
exile and privations of the Pilgrims for the
same cause, namely freedom to worship ac-
cording to their conscience. Now that the
extraneous doctrine of polygamy is swept
away, the world will judge more fairly of
the Mormon citizens of Utah, upon the re-
sult of whose pioneer toils and courage
others are now building.
—Womans Tribune.


IN Colorado, last year, only one woman
held the office of county superintendent of
schools. Now there are twenty-three wo-
men superintendents. Yet some of our
remonstrants claim that women are less
likely to be chosen to school offices where
women vote.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor.

	“Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake-City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
thg, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business, communications to
		PUBLISHER, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office, in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY, 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	SOME of the sisters who have great love
for Sister Zina D. H. Young, and wishing
to manifest their appreciation of her labors
as a friend to humanity and a public ser-
vant, counseled together as to how they
could best express in a fitting manner the
esteem and respect of her associates on the
coming birthday which would complete her
seventy-fifth year—making the three quart-
ers of a century, which is a ripe age, and a
time, when one would no longer hesitate to
be called old, After careful thought it was
decided that as President of a great organi-
zation, the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety, it might be appropriate to celebrate
by a meeting in every ward throughout the
organization. Accordingly this was decided
upon and letters were written to presiding
officers and some suggestions were made to
them as to the program of exercises.
	Meanwhile her children and intimate
friends planned a banquet in her honor to
be given on January 31, 1896, and the sis-
ters who are officers in the General and
Salt Lake Stake Boards of the several
Associations met and conferred together, as
to what should be done, and how to pro-
ceed. The matter was given serious atten-
tion and after many meetings of Commit-
tees the Hotel Templeton was agreed upon
as a suitable place and arrangements were
made to hold the banquet there. Commit-
tees were appointed to dispose of the work
and the affair was settled. Invitations were
circulated and every detail attended to as far
as possible. All these things were done with-
out the knowledge or consent of Sister Zina.
Souvenir cards were prepared, Sister Zina’s
picture in the left-hand corner—her name
and the dates 1821—1896—and a verse in-
scribed which spoke of her labors and vir-
tues.
	A saintly face, and a great mother heart,
	So rich in grace, and charily thou art, 
	That evermore our reverence shall be,
	A loving tribute to thy memory,
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
	And future generations bless thy name.
	These cards represented the colors of the
Society which are in the banner, blue, white
and gold; cards white, edging and lettering
gold, ribbon with which it is tied blue. Mrs.
McCune with her usual generosity was on
hand with her carriage to convey eminent
guests. Sister Zina was brought from her
home into the parlors of the Templeton in-
to the midst of floral decorations and of

[Column 2] 
guests among whom were many very old
friends and distinguished visitors.
	About two hundred guests, relatives and
intimate friends of Mrs. Young were seated
at the banquet in the spacious dining room
of the Templeton, President Lorenzo Snow
of the Quorum of the Apostles offered the
benediction. Clive’s band discoursed the
choicest selections of music in the ante-
room during dinner, and after partaking of
the sumptuous repast, the company re-
paired to the parlors and the program of
exercises begun, Captain Willard Young
Master of Ceremonies; opening with music,
voluntary, on the piano by Miss Kate
Romney—song by Miss Carrol C. Cannon,
“Pilgrim’s Band of Hope” encore; Captain
Young’s address to his mother in recogni-
tion of the day, and her many labors and
teachings, which was both tender and elo-
quent—Singing led by Professor C. J.
Thomas and Maggie Hull, “O, my Father
thou that dwellest’’ etc. Response to toast,
“The Relief Society’’ by Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, giving the origin and organiza-
tion of that great and grand association.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed con-
firming the statements made by Sister
Kimball and expressing her own views and
her delight on this happy occasion. Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor read an original poem by
Emily H. Woodmansee after which more
music was given and a recitation by little
Zina Card—“Christ And The Little Ones”
song by Maggie Hull, poem by Augusta
J. Crocheron, read by Annie Wells Can-
non, telegrams of congratulations to Mrs.
Young from Ephraim, Nephi and Lehi in
behalf of the sisters of the society of these
places, were read. Speech by President
George Q. Cannon, in which he alluded to
the privileges of equality the sisters now
enjoyed and urged wisdom and caution in
the exercise of the franchise. Con-
gratulated Sister Zina on her labors, the
enjoyment of all her faculties and health
and strength at the great age, referred to
the many blessings the Saints enjoyed at
the present time.
	Response by the venerable President
Zina D. H. Young, and more music; speech
impromptu, Mrs. E. B. Wells and conver-
sation general among the guests. After-
wards Mrs. May B. Talmage recited “Only
A Girl,’’ very impressively rendered, and
there was music by Rhoda Mabel Young,
and songs in Hawaiian language by Elder
Jacob Gates and a speech by Elder Oliver
B. Huntington of Springville brother of
Mrs. Young; recitation “The New Church
Organ” by Mrs. Elizabeth McCune in her
inimitable style and humorous recitations
by Zebulun Jacobs grandson of Mrs. Young,
speech by George Chase of Centerville
and other exercises. The singing of
“Auld Lang Syne” completed the evening’s
entertainment. It was a very enjoyable
affair and a day never to be forgotten by
those who had the privilege of assembling
together and congratulating the lady in
whose honor the party was given.
	One thing to be regretted is that all the
very dear friends of Sister Young could not
have met in one place but there is no hall
large enough; and the Committees had to
decide on a certain number; in a party
given for one so universally beloved and
respected it would require a place as large
as the Theater or the Pavilion at Saltair.
	The entertainments given in the several
wards on the same day so far as we have
heard were very happy and enjoyable gather-
ings


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ERRATA—In the January number of our
paper the last stanza and ninth line of the
poem ‘‘Dying Yet Living” the word
“freedom” should read “guerdon.”
	MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS Vice Presi-
dent At Large of the State Suffrage As-
sociation and Mrs. Sarah A Boyer President
of Springville Suffrage Association, left the
City for Washington on the U. P. express
train Jan. 19, (Delegates) to attend the
National Woman Suffrage Convention at
the Capital. A number of Delegates were
nominated at an executive session of the
State Association on the 18th of December,
1895, and credentials furnished, but
on accouut of circumstances they could not
all go to the Convention. Among those who
were nominated besides the two already
mentioned were Lucy A. Clark, Farming-
ton, President Davis County Suffrage As-
sociation; Corinne M. Allen wife of the
Utah representative who is already, in
Washington, Augusta W. Grant, Ella W.
Hyde, Margaret A. Caine, Martha B.
Cannon wife of the Senator (Frank J.
Cannon,) Margaret B. Salisbury, Nellie
M. Little, Elizabeth McCune and Mary E.
Gilmer. Our knowledge of the Convention
is very meager, only what the dispatches
have given, and one or two personal tele-
grams we have received.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last business
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, a quo-
rum being present, it was decided that the
annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of
dating from the first day of January to the
last day of December inclusive, reports will
be hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or
otherwise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of
the Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt
Lake City, not later than the 20th of
February.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


EXTRACTS FROM MRS. C. M.
ALLEN’S LETTER.

	I HAVE enjoyed attending the sessions of
the convention more than I can tell you.
	Many of these women of national
reputation are more than one has believed
them to be. I was greatly delighted with
Mrs. Catt. She is a woman of marvelous
power. I cannot speak in detail of all of
them. To do it would simply be repeat-
ing what you already know better than I
do.
	On Utah night the church was packed as
I never saw a house packed before.
	Hundreds were refused admission and
hundreds of women and men stood during
the long exercises.
	Miss Shaw’s speech was short not over
twelve or fourteen minutes, but the most


eloquent I have ever heard which is saying
a great deal. Mr. Cannon’s reply was in
his usual happy vein. Mr. Allen spoke
briefly and not apparently unacceptably.
Mrs. Boyer followed with a talk that
shewed her a woman of ability. Mrs.
Richards read her paper last. It was a
thoughtful and well prepared history of suf-
frage in Utah. I never saw her look so
handsome. Her dress was beautiful and
became her well. The rest of the evening
was given up to state reports and brief ad-
dresses. It was amusing to see that even
here in this great convention there were wo-
men who would run over their time, and go
on after the bell had rung.
Washington D. C. Jan. 24th, 1896.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	“THE twenty-eighth annual convention of 
the National-American W. S. A. opened
Thursday morning, Jan. 23, 1896, in the
Church of Our Father, Washington, D. C.
the president, Miss Anthony, in the chair.
In opening the meeting Miss Anthony said:
	This is the twenty-eighth annual suffrage
convention in Washington. The thought
that brought us here twenty-eight years
ago was that, if the National Constitution
could be invoked to protect black men in
the right to vote, the same great authority
could be evoked to protect women. The
question has been urged upon every Con-
gress since 1869. We asked at first for a
sixteenth amendment, enfranchising wo-
men; then for suffrage under the fourteenth
amendment; then when the Supreme Court
had decided that against us, we returned
to the sixteenth amendment, and have
pressed it ever since. In the present Con-
gress, Senator Hoar has introduced in the
Senate a joint resolution for a sixteenth
amendment, and it has been referred to the
Senate Committee on Woman Suffrage,
of which Senator Call, of Florida is chair-
man. A similar resolution has been pre-
sented in the House by Congressman North-
way, of Indiana, and has been referred to
the Judiciary Committee.
	You will notice that the seats of the dele-
gation from Utah are marked by a large
United States flag bearing three stars, a big
one and two smaller ones. The big star is
for Wyoming, because she stood alone for a
quarter of a century as the only State
where women voted. Colorado comes next,
because she is the first State where a ma-
jority of the men ever voted to grant women
equal rights. Then comes Utah; because
the men of Utah, in convention assembled,
in spite of the bad example of Congress,
which took the right away from the women
of Utah ten years ago,—the men of Utah,
having seen the good effects of woman
suffrage for years before that, voted by an
overwhelming majority to leave out the
little word "male" from their suffrage
clause. Next year, if I am here, I hope to
rejoice over California and Idaho, and the
next year over several more. We have
now three bricks laid down in the row. 
We have every reason for encouragement,
none for discouragement. One sign of
progress is that men in high places begin to 
talk back to us, instead of considering us
unworthy of notice. They read the Call
for our convention; and President Eliot, of
Harvard, does not like it that we quote
him. 
	Miss Anthony read the sentences from
President Eliot's article quoted in the Call,


and continued: Now, friends, you all know
I am a Quaker. We give thanks in silence
before each meal. I do not think the heart
of any one here has been fuller of silent
thankfulness than mine; but I should not
have remembered to have the meeting form-
ally opened with prayer if somebody had
not reminded me. Rev. Anna Shaw will
offer prayer.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Dec.
28th, 1895. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Sister Frances Smith. Singing,
“Guide Us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
The minutes of the previous meeting were
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she felt very thank-
ful to be here with her sisters at the close of
another year, said there were enough here
to claim the blessing, “That where a few 
are met together in my name there will I be
also.” Many have come here today for a
blessing and felt that each one would re-
ceive the comfort she needed. Exhorted
her sisters if any one had feelings against
another not to let it have place in her
heart, but let them all die with the old
year and commence again anew with the
new year. Would like to have all her
sisters read, Christ's sermon on the Mount
often. Pray continually for the Spirit of
God for that led into all truth; do not let
your talents lie dormant but seek them out,
referred to President Cannon’s sermon on
the same subject.  Spoke of obedience of
children to parents also obedience to the
Gospel; said teach children self sacrifice;
good Latter-day Saints were self-sacrificing:
felt we were in a more dangerous condition
now than ever before and that there were
more temptations abroad for the young;
spoke of virtue, said she heard President
Cannon say he did not believe in long
courtships for young people. Spoke of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his wonderful 
work all accomplished in fourteen years.
His life was not one of peace but of turmoil,
spoke of her association with him.  Bore a
strong testimony. Prayed the Lord to
bless us and help us to do better in the
coming year.
	Sister Cutler, said she wanted to bear
her testimony to the goodness of God: also
that He heard and answered prayer. Said
she went to the dedication of the Temple
fasting and everything she asked the Lord
for that day had been given to her four-
fold.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she came here
today rather hungry for a blessing and felt
sure she would receive it; she never en-
joyed a meeting more in her life than she
did the conference here two weeks ago, did
not know why unless it was that she felt
free from all responsibility and could settle
down for pure enjoyment. She loved to
hear her sisters testify of their association
with the prophets; the dearest thing on
earth to her was her association with her
aged sisters, those who had done so much
good and had had so much experience, felt
she ought to be a great deal better than she
was; spoke very beautifully of her friend-
ship with Sisters Marinda N. Hyde and S.
M. Heywood who had passed behind the
vail and of their noble lives and the
example they set. Said we could not be
thankful enough for the Gospel, felt there

[Column 2]
was a great responsibility on the saints, al-
so that this was truly a time of trial for us,
knew Satan was not dead, felt that we
should ever be on the alert. Exhorted the
sisters to be charitable and each morning
before leaving our room ask God for His
Holy Spirit and for the help we need this
day: scan ourselves and never be above
asking one another’s forgivness if we have
done wrong, for then we could ask God to
forgive us: felt the coming year was full of
trials that we little knew of: we must be
humble and always try and say, “O God
Thy will, not mine, be done.” Prayed
that at the close of 1896 we might feel we
had served the Lord better than the year
before, closed by asking God to bless us all.
	Sister M. O. Brown felt glad of the
record she had made in the Temple this
year. When we could learn to listen to the
still small voice we were blest, we must
live near the Lord, said she never forgot
the sisters nor these meetings: hoped she
would be able to make a greater record in
the Temple this coming year than she had
in the last. Asked God’s blessing upon
us.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune said she had
not been identified with the Relief Society
until the last two months, had been more
with the young ladies: told of a, blessing
she had wherein it was prophecied she
should do a great Relief Society work.
Soon after this she was made Treasurer in
the Relief Society of the Seventeenth
Ward. The next Saturday she came to
these meetings and never enjoyed a meeting
so much. Felt she had missed a great deal
by not attending them before; thought it
would be a good idea to bring a pencil and
paper and jot down some of the words and
ideas of our dearly beloved sisters, Aunt
Zina, Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne,
for they were indeed gems and we would
not always have them with us: related a
dream she had; felt she had done better
in the last year than ever before, she felt
well and wanted to do do a great deal bet-
ter in the next. Sister Martha Barrow felt
she had always done the best she could,
had been in the church many years: God
had blessed her with good sons and
daughters. Her son had just come home
from a mission, felt very proud of him and
highly honored. Knew God would and
did bless the missionaries and kept them
from harm and temptation, bore a strong
testimony.
	A sister felt glad she was numbered with
the people of God, bore her testimony. 
	Sister Julia Sampson said the spirit
prompted her to add her testimony to the
others. She thanked her Heavenly Father
for the strength He had given her to enable
her to pass through her trials. Spoke of
the meeting one year ago, also of the sister
who spoke in tongues on that occasion
said there was much we could learn from
one another. We could not be happy in
the eternal world without our children. If
children go astray they will have to pay
the penalty. Hoped we would all have a
happy New Year and that God would give
us those things which would be best for
us.
	Sister Sophia Nuttall spoke of the effort
it was for her to speak, had been told in a
blessing that she should do this, felt this
was a trying time for the young and that it
would require all our strength to save
them: knew our labors would increase but
if we had patience and humility God


would give us the strength and help we
needed. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Sister M. A. Hardy said she had made a
great effort to come here today, remembered
the meeting one year ago, also the sisters
who spoke in tongues. The desire of her
heart was to go to the Temple this winter;
prayed the Lord would open her way so she
could do so.
	Sister Brown spoke of the goodness of
the Lord to her, said each year she tried to
do better than the last, bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt thankful to 
see some new faces today: said we should
treasure the gems spoken by our aged 
sisters also their testimonies and 
recollections of the Prophet. We should be
a very thankful people, she had done the 
best she could in the past year but wanted 
to try and improve: said the fathers should
do their part in teaching and training the
children, thought parents should never
have differences before their children.
Prayed God to bless us all in the coming
year.
	Sister Jane James said she had lived in
the Prophet’s family: could not express
what a great man he was; she had many
trials and asked the sisters all to pray for
her. 
	Sister Horne made some closing remarks. 
The fathers could not come down to the
capacity of the children as the mothers
could: what children learned in their youth
they always remembered. When they
come home from Sunday School and
Primary, parents should ask them what
they have learned. Prayed we might al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord to help
us bear our trials. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us,” etc. Benediction by Sister J.
C.Howe.
			ZINA HYDE, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
REJOICING AT HUNTSVILLE.

Editor Exponent:
	Dear Sister:—Feeling a desire to let you
know that we live in the tops of these
beautiful mountains, where the Lord said
his people should dwell, and can say that
we are from all nations, trying to learn of
his ways, and walk in his paths, building
up the waste places for our posterity to
dwell upon, of which you will see from a
synopsis of the celebration of the day of
days for this our beautiful Territory’s free-
dom. Statehood, we do appreciate this
grand privilege, also woman’s equality, to
advance in all that is progressive, as woman
should in order to bring forth those noble
spirits which it is said should be reserved
for these days.
	Our little valley was awakened by the
ringing of bells, our beautiful Meeting
House opened for exercises at 10 o’clock,
Jan. 6th.
	Some of our best speakers made short
speeches for the occasion, the brass band
was in attendance. At noon, the Relief
Society had prepared dinner for those who
took part in the formal opening of a fine
two story brick building, erected for the use
and benefit of all Relief Society work, also
the Young Ladies who have taken a very
prominent part in raising means to assist in
the great struggle of building and our dear
little primary childrens, nickles must not be
forgotten.
	At 2 o’clock the brass band made the

[Column 2] 
house ring with the best music of Hunts-
ville.
	After which meeting was called to order
by the chairman A. J. Anderson, music,
prayer by Counselor S. L. Peterson. Sing-
ing by the ward choir, after which a poem
composed by Sister Emma Peterson on
Statehood and the labors of the sisters, was
well rendered by her daughter Olivia.
Music by the guitar club. A speech was
then given by Lona Schada, on the labors
of the trustees expressing thankfulness for
the blessings of statehood and the privileges
of this beautiful house. A speech by Sister
Emma Burrows, she was glad to see this
day in celebrating the opening of this hall
for the benefit of all charitable purposes,
“for the poor ye shall always have,’’ said the
Savior; she never had had one doubt in re-
gard to the building of this house for she
fully realized it was all done under the in-
fluence and direction of the spirit, and
nothing but union of effort could have ac-
complished this work with so little means,
refered to the time of the laying of the
corner stone, by Apostle F. D. Richards the
prayer then offered, had been fulfilled, to
the satisfaction of those who were deeply
interested, namely the board of directors
and building committee; space will not per-
mit to tell of the unceasing labors of this
noble band of workers. Music and song by
the choir, after which President Tracy said
her heart was full of gratitude to God and
the brethren and sisters for this day. We
have labored so long who can doubt the
hand of God, scarcely any means to start
with, but here a little and there a little com-
bined labor under wise management and
we are here enjoying this day of freedom.
Music by the martial band. Speeches by
the committee of ladies and brethren. A
speech by Sister Hawkins, she was thank-
ful for this day and manifested her loyalty
and patriotism by proposing that three
cheers be offered in honor of the day, which
were given.
	Song by the young ladies; we trust at
the dedication of this building justice can
be done to all in the near future. Some
little expenses yet hang over it, success to
all such enterprises, all accomplished by
home made work.
	We remain your fellow laborers in the
Gospel.
			ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
			EMMA BURROWS, Secy.
Jan. 6, 1896.


R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
held at Mesa, Arizona, Dec. 20, 1895.
President Mabel Ann Hakes presiding.
Stake President Collin R. Hakes, Henry
C. Rogers, and other brethren present beside
a goodly number of the society.
President Alice Richens, Mesa Ward,
Louisa Harper,Lehi Ward, Ann Klienman,
Alma Ward, Esther Openshaw, Nephi
Ward, and Sister Sarah Tiffany of Papago
Ward, gave encouraging reports from these
respective wards. All seemed to be doing
as well as usual, although there seemed to
be a faithful few who had to do the princi-
pal part of the work of the respective
society, but upon the whole there was a
general good feeling and we had a good
meeting.
	Sisters Brimhall, Emma Rogers and
Sister Bailey bore their testimony and ex-
pressed joy and pride, that they were num-
bered with the Latter-day Saints.
	Sister M. A. Hakes, Sister Lizzie A.
Macdonald had visited all the wards during
the last three months, the other counselor,
S. A. Robson had not been able to go on ac-
count of her failing health. They found
everything working well and the sisters in
the various branches doing a good work in
caring for the sick and helping where
help was needed. Sister Lizzie A.
MacDonald gave some timely exhortations
as well as good advice to the Saints in gen-
eral, and mothers in particular.
	Brother Henry C. Rogers spoke for a
short time on the importance of attending
our meetings, as well as all other duties de-
volving upon a real live Latter-day Saint.
	President Collin R. Hakes was altogether
proud of the Saints of Maricopa Stake.
Spoke a short time on the duties of those
who had accepted positions of responsibility
in the Church, and the order of the Gospel.
Annual reports approved, also the minutes
of previous meeting by Bishop Eli Open-
shaw, conference was adjourned for three
months.	F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
SIXTH WARD.
	MINUTES of monthly-meeting held in
the Sixth Ward Assembly Room, Jan. 2nd,
1896. President West presiding. Present
Counselor Ellen R. Watson. There were
also present Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West, M. Isabella Horne, Stake
President. Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon. Also Brothers Jas,
Latham and Pugh. Singing, ‘’How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President West expressed her pleasure in
having President Horne and Counselors
with us this afternoon. Owing to the de-
mise of our late Counselor, Sister Britton,
Sister Janet Cochrane had been elected in
our last meeting to fill the vacancy, being
absent no further steps were taken at that
time; President West had spoken personally
with her later, owing to her advanced age
and poor health, she declined the position.
it was now in order to choose a Counselor.
Would like to hear from the Bishop on this
subject.
	Bishop Watson explained Sister Coch-
rane’s circumstances, said while it is our
right to call, we have also the right to ex-
cuse, Sister Cochrane’s excuse was a
righteous one, he was satisfied she did not
desire to shirk any duty. Spoke of her
faithfulness, her integrity, she felt in her
declining years unable to fill this position.
Spoke of President West’s long sickness,
her faithfulness. The good work the
society were engaged in.
	President West made choice of Sister El-
len Watson first Counselor, Sister Alice
Butterworth, second Counselor. On motion
of Bishop Watson, Counselor Ellen R.
Watson was elected first Counselor to
President West, carried by unanimous vote.
On motion of Sister Condie, Sister Alice
Butterworth was elected second Counselor.
carried unanimously.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson was set apart
by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Counselor Alice Butterworth by Coun-
selor Jesse West.
President Horne, "my sisters I am
pleased to meet with you.” Wished all a
Happy New Year, peace, health and pros-
perity. Spoke of the duties of the Presi-


dent, the order of the Relief Society, the
society should be in harmony with the
Bishopic of the wards. “I was connected
with the first Relief Society organized by
the Prophet Joseph. Heard the gospel for
the first time, three weeks after my mar-
riage with Brother Home. In shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph, felt such
an influence that it thrilled my body like
electricity. Knew he was a Prophet of
the Lord. Had never lost the spirit of the
gospel from that time. Gave a brief sketch
of her life. Felt to prize and honor the
associations and acquaintance dearly. “The
adversary is abroad on the earth, we need
to be wise. Read the Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and the Bible, those
who study these works have no time for
fault finding." Spoke of some, who were
connecting themselves with Christian
Science. Satan has great power on the
earth, we should watch and pray, that our
minds may not be darkened; be careful how
we speak of the Lord’s anointed. Spoke
of the power Satan exercised over the
messenger sent to Daniel in answer to his
prayer, by obstructing his path and en-
gaging in combat, how the Heavenly Mes-
senger who overcame him, also explained
to Daniel why he had been delayed. Spoke
of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph on
the signs of the times. He said when the
Russian Bear puts his paw on the British
Lion be sure the end is not far off. Presi-
dent Horne said I am pleased with your
choice of your Counselors Alice Butter-
worth whom I have been acquainted with
for a number of years. Spoke of her
financial abilities, her faithfulness in the
gospel. Spoke of Sister Cochrane’s
integrity to the truth. Spoke of the
responsibility of the teachers. The Relief
Society were not to assist the poor alone;
but also to edify and instruct each other
and save souls. None but pure chaste wo-
men should be members; gave much good
instructions, especially in regard to storing
of grain. Closed her remarks by urging
the sisters to be diligent in discharging
their duties.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde “I have been
pleased with the remarks of Sister Horne,
she always tells us something good." Desired
to assist in Zion’s cause. Regretted that so
few were here today, many did not realize
the importance of the Relief Society, both
old and young women should be members.
The Prophet Joseph was inspired to
organize the sisters. Emma Smith was
called to the office of President by revela-
tion. Joseph in giving instructions in the
third meeting, said none but women of good
repute should become members. The work
is not to relieve the poor alone, but to ex-
hort and expound the scriptures. Urged
the teachers to invite and encourage the
sisters to come to meeting. Did not know
how any could absent themselves from
meeting; the spirit of God could not dwell
with such. We need all the instructions
we can receive. Many blessings are
promised to mothers, if we are faithful we
can administer to our children, call on the
Lord to bless them,and to heal them if they
are sick. These are great and glorious
privileges for mothers to enjoy, the Priest-
hood of God is on the earth today, it is
patterned after the order of Enoch and
Paul.
	President Horne related an incident
where her child was healed throngh the
administration of Mother Smith, the
Prophet Joseph’s mother.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon regretted that
the sisters were not more anxious to be con-
nected with the Relief Society, these as-
sociations were not only a benefit but a
great blessing to woman. Advised the
teachers to labor with them. Tell them of
the blessings to be derived from the good
instructions given there, how they would
help to lighten their labors at home. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
should belong the to Relief Society. I have
heard the remark, that old women have
nothing to talk about, in this they make a
grand mistake. We can talk to each other
of the gospel, its principles never grow old,
we can learn something new every day
from it. My sisters, let us educate our-
selves! And know our true position, no
one can give.us their testimony, we have to
earn our own salvation, to know the truth
for ourselves; our conscience will tell us
when we do wrong. President Horne told
us of the power of Satan we cannot afford
to be careless. Read good books, be hum-
ble and prayerful. Seek to know the truth
for yourselves, that we may be faithful to
the end."
	Sister Alice Butterworth said “my sisters
I will try to fill the position assigned me,
by the assistance of my Heavenly Father,
had received many blessings through faith
and prayer.”
	Sister Ellen R. Watson said, “In accept-
ing the position I am called to occupy, my
only desire is to do good, to assist the poor,
to help the sick and afflicted, and perform
my duties.” Asked God to bless this
society.
	Sister Margaret Latham was set apart as
first Counselor to President Hunter of
Primary Association by Brother John
Latham. Sister Elizabeth E. Watson as
s econd Counselor by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Bishop Watson made closing remarks,
thanked President Horne and Counselors
for their visit. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in the discharge of theirduties.
	Adjourned for one month. Benediction
by Counselor Jesse West.
	After close of meeting. President Horne
and Counselors with Bishop Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West and officers of Relief
Society repaired to President West’s where
a bounteous luncheon awaited them, pre-
pared by her daughters. After a pleasant
time and social chat, all returned to their
homes feeling blest and benefited by the
good instructions given.
ELIZABETH W. CONDIE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN the U. S. Senate, Hon. George F.
Hoar has presented a joint resolution for a
Constitutional Amendment admitting wo-
men to suffrage.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT has clear-
ed $140 for the National Organization
Committee by her Woman Suffrage Calen-
dars, which found a ready sale. We con-
gratulate her.
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET was the victim
of an attempted compliment at a recent
temperance meeting in London. She was
absent through illness. The lady who
took her place made this kindly but unex-
pected explanation: "Dear Lady Henry has
been overworked, and we must, of course,
be careful not to kill the goose that lays the
golden eggs."

[Column 2]
	IN Wyoming the State superintendent of
instruction, M1ss Estelle Reel, is conducting
her office with such skill and winning such
golden opinions that her nomination for
Governor of Wyoming in 1896 is being
seriously considered.
	MISS LAURENCE TADEMA, the daughter
of Alma-Tadema, has written one fairly
successful book, "The Crucifix." She has
just completed a translation of Maaterlinck’s
plays, for which she has written a preface
that is said to possess exceptional literary
merit. Miss Tadema is not yet twenty-five
years of age, and is an artist as well as a
writer.
	THE Woman’s Political Equality Club of
Rochester. N. Y., held a "Lucretia Mott"
anniversary social, at the residence of Dr.
E. M. Moore, on the evening of Jan. 16.
An interesting biographical sketch of the
"Saintly Lucretia" was read by Mrs. Jean
Brooks Greenleaf. Personal reminiscences
were given by Dr. E. M. Moore, who is a
nephew of James Mott, and by Miss Susan
B. Anthony.
	MRS. ELLEN M. HENROTIN’ president of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs,
has issued a circular letter to all the club
presidents, asking them to bring forward
the consideration of a peace movement in
Europe and in this country. The ultimate
hope is to have a convention of the Chris-
tian powers in 1900, with a view to estab-
lishing an international court of arbitration.
	Many of the club presidents have already
acted in accordance with the letter.
	MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE, recently 
entertained the Bostonian Club with rem-
niscences of "Boston Sixty Years Ago."
Her home was on Salem Street, near the
corner of Bennett Street—the court end of
Boston .Mrs. Livermore’s earliest recollec-
tion of an important event is the visit of
Lafayette, when the roads between Boston
and Worcester were gaily decorated, and all
the children in town dressed up in honor of
the event.
	A LARGE and brilliant assembly greeted
Miss Anthony and Mrs. Upton at the home
of the editor of the TRIBUNE last Saturday.
	There were Senators and members, with
their wives, the gifted ladies from National
Park Seminary, and a large number of the
prominent women of the District, many of
them with their husbands. Miss Anthony
had only been in the city a few hours, but
did not seem fatigued with her journey and
was in her usual health and spirits.—Ex.
	MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW, of this city,
who made a prolonged visit at the Atlanta,
(Ga.) Exposition, found much there that is
interesting and encouraging in relation to
the work and progress of women. In a let-
ter to the Boston Transcript she writes ap
preciatively of the women who composed
the Women’s Board of Managers, and re-
counts some of the many difficulties they
bravely overcame. She says significantly:
"While the Exposition itself comes out be-
hind in money matters, the Women’s
Board, who built and managed the Wo-
man’s Building, unaided and unadvised by
men, came out with about $4,000 in their
treasury."—Ex.
	MISS Clara Barton has sailed for England,
en route to Armenia, with the prayers and
sympathy of the American people for her
safety and success. It is a difficult and
delicate task to invade the domain of a


monarch to assist a province which has as-
pirations for political as well as religious
liberty, and we must not ignore the fact that
the persecutions have a political and not a
religious basis; hence the Sultan’s objection
to his rebellious subjects being assisted by
money raised at meetings called to denounce
the government. But Miss Barton will
make the humanitarian side prominent and
will never step on a Moslem to aid a Chris-
tian. She will assuredly secure not only
the permission but the co-operation of the
Sublime Porte.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

	Although my mind is simply teeming
with the work of this last year I think I
have told you enough, but the Colorado
women are in politics and they mean to stay
and the men like to have them although
some of them don’t, but they are not the
best men I assure you, and we prize the
ballot more and more. It has been said
that giving woman the ballot will simply
double the vote, that all women will vote
just as their husbands do or if they don’t
they will fight. I don’t vote as my hus-
band does. This is the twentieth year of
our married life and while he has been a
Republican and I have been a Democrat it
has not created any dissension between us;
he is perfectly delighted to hear my views,
it is variety that gives the spice to life, and
gives self respect to each of them. Yes,
the Democratic wife of a Republican hus-
band went all about the State and stumped
the State for the party to which her hus-
band was opposed. So I think that speaks
well for the husband. Miss Shaw is going
to speak to you now. I give to you women
of Utah the right hand of fellowship from
the women of Colorado, and I assure you
that as the days go by you will find the suf-
frage conferred upon you the most beautiful,
the most delightful and the most gratifying,
that your children will look upon you with
a great deal more respect because they will
realize that you have the same rights that
their fathers have, and I hope that our wo-
men will not vote just exactly as their hus
bands do. You know the children of a
Democratic mother and a Republican father
never can grow up thinking that all the
political wisdom in the world is found in
one particular party—they will, realize that 
it is divided up pretty equally, and honest
men and honest women may be divided in
politics if they will only remain loyal to
the declaration of Independence, loyal to
the stars and stripes and loyal to the Con-
stitution of the United States and the
magnificent expression of the power that
makes right and justice, which is embodied
in this glorious democratic—republican
government. (Applause.) 
	Miss Anthony: I will introduce to you
the Vice-president at large of a still larger 
Association than our Suffrage Association
and that is the Vice-president at large of
the National Council of Women of the
United States which has held its second
triennial council in the City of Washing-
ton and which three years from now will
hold its third triennial council and that
council consists not only of the Suffrage
Society but it consists of nineteen other
national organizations of this country; wo-
men organized for one and another great 
purpose, and as you have always heard it
said that you have never heard of any class
of women organizing for any other than a

[Column 2]
good purpose and I am proud always to
present as my first Lieutenant Miss Anna
Shaw. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MISS ANNA SHAW.
	You know whenever women undertake
to do anything everybody has not always
wanted to do the first thing they say is, we
are getting out of our sphere. We have
heard that so long that some of us are not
the least bit frightened by it. Then if that
doesn’t frighten us to death they shout
“You are strong minded!” And we come
to feel since there are only two classes of
people the strong and the weak minded
people, we prefer to be classed with 
the strong minded (laughter.) Then the next
shot that is made is “You are a set of
Infidels!” If there is nothing else that
will kill you that will sure. Miss Anthony
during the New York campaign wanted to
impress upon the people that we were not,
and to make it strong she always brought
me up as a type of a strong orthodox back-
ing up the movement; so one day she
wanted to make a good impression and she
said “Now I have the pleasure of introduc-
ing to you an ordained minister and an or-
dained minister of the Methodist Church,
Rev. Anna Shaw who is my right bower,
(applause) and you can fancy the impres-
sion she gave on that orthodox community,
and the only person in that orthodox com-
munity who didn't know what a right 
bower was, was Miss Anthony (applause)
(laughter) all the rest of us knew just what
it was. Now my friends I hardly know
what to say because I want to fire a lot of
hot shot at you to night. In the old state
where I live we won't come into the Union
until the whole kite comes in and we will
come in at the tail end, so it seems like
talking to a person who is already free and
there is no possible hope of my being free
unless I come to Utah (applause) if it was
not that I like to be a missionary and come
here, but you don’t need missionaries here,
I want to go to the heathen (applause.) but
I was very much interested this afternoon
at what one of your gentlemen said and it
is so funny that the opposition are so sincere
and yet they don’t know just what they are
saying. This gentleman in his polite way
said he had such a high opinion of women
that he didn’t want to drag us down on a 
level with men on election day because
politics are so dirty and I thought the only
thing that is dirty about politics is the men,
(laughter and applause) and since we have
to live with these men 364 days in the year
why can’t they let us risk it the 365 days;
and if it is such a dirty place who can
handle a mop like a woman. (laughter)
When the Mayor of New York at one time
suggested the appointing of women on the
Board of Street Commissioners the Sun a
conservative old paper said to the Mayor
of New York. “Put your women on the
Board of Street Commissioners; who can
handle a broom so well as they.” And if
politics are dirty it does seem that it is time
they were cleaned up and they have got to
be cleaned up and we have got to come and 
help you. See how good we are. See how
kind we are! We were made to be your
helpmates. You are undertaking to run
this thing without us and you cannot ex-
pect to get out of it. I have always wanted
to see that and it is so wonderful that you
men want to keep it all to yourselves and
yet it is so safe. I cannot see why a decent
man is not as decent as a decent woman,

[Column 3]
and why a clean man is not just as clean as
a clean woman and why a moral man is not
just as moral as a moral woman, and I can’t
imagine how any decent man wants to get
down into any kind of a ruin. I have so
much respect for men that they have no
right to be asked to go anywhere where a
decent woman can’t go. I am getting tired
of this filthy pool of politics and strong-
minded women and all the rest of it. Why
is it a sort of a bugaboo to make them keep
still as the strong man will tell them. I
heard a woman on the train tell her children
if they didn’t behave that the Conductor
would punch a hole in their ears; I have
heard them tell lies to them, and then won-
der at Providence. But these people are
always telling stories to people to make
them keep still and scare them into good
behavior. Now Gentlemen, this dirty pool
of politics won’t scare us; we don’t believe
it and in the second place we are going to
stand right by you, we never have forsaken
you and we are not going to forsake you
now; and we will get out of our sphere. Is
it not wonderful that it is so easy for a wo-
man to get out of her sphere? I have been
out of my sphere for 25 years and I have
been exceedingly comfortable and a great
deal more so than in it and all these 25 years
I have been looking around to find a man
out of his sphere and I never yet found one
and I wondered why it was so easy for a
woman to get out of her sphere until I had
at last discovered that a man hadn’t any
sphere, to get out of. (Applause and laugh-
ter) But there is one thing true and that
is if you don’t get out of your sphere you
get into ours. (Laughter.)
	Not very long ago a good Methodist par-
son introduced me to a congregation and he
said “The only objection I have to you
women is that you push yourselves into the
kind of work that a man used to be engaged
in and what will become of us poor preach-
ers by and by,” and I said: “I think there
are a great many men preaching who would
to better at some other kind of business
and let women take the place and a good
thing it would be for the poor congregation
and an excellent thing for the preacher,”
and I said the difficulty with you is you
have been watching us so that you have
forgotten to watch yourselves. Years ago
there were only seven kinds of employment
and now there are more than seven hundred
kinds of employment in the United States in
which a woman can earn a livelihood; but
in the seven occupations in, which women
were engaged there are very few women to
be found to day, the men have taken them
up altogether.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St., 
SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
VOL. 24. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. FEBRUARY 15, 1896.
NO. 18.


CONTENTS:
	The Washington Convention. The Utah
Evening—Woman's Tribune. Relief Society
Organized. Leap Year Figures. U. W. P. C.—
E. R. Shipp. The Leaping of the Leap Years.
Anna Lowrie Ivins. To The Sisters. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde. R. S. Re-
port—Sarah Pope. S. L. Co. W. S. A. --Cassie
C. Newman. Birthday Party—Hilda M. Graham.
A Pleasant Gathering—Agnes Lewis. Swiss
And German. Notes And News. Conference
N. A. W. S, A. Another Advance Step—F. M. A.
	Editorial:—A Woman On The School
Board. Women Can Help. Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—The Vision—Cactus. Lovingly In-
scribed—E. R. Shipp. To Aunt Zina—Minnie
Loveland Snow.


[Column 1]
THE VISION.
I PENSIVE sat alone, at that sweet hour,
When, in the west, the dying king of day,
Merges his fading glories into night.
Alone, in such deep thought, the sleeping hour,
Of time passed on unnoted, and ere long,
Night’s shadows, like the poet’s sable shroud.
Enwrapped the senses of a slumb’ring world.
In that deep hour, with all its solemn gloom,
The soul, it seems, in closer union meets,
With Nature’s greater,universal soul.
And thus with me; Identity was lost;
And I became, for one brief hour at least,
The willing captive of the hoary past.
By force unseen, nor with mine own volition,
I, fanned by breezes as I passed along,
With silent power was borne unto a mount,
Whose lofty summit, overlooked the land.
Like map in high relief there stretched away,
Beneath, a panorama, far and near;
The towns and cities, rivers, fields and woods,
And all that goes to make what we call earth.
But darkness deep, bespread the landscape o’er,
Nor could the rising sun, with fervid power,
Dispel the murky clouds which, like a pall,
Hung o’er each spot by foot of mankind pressed.

As with the eye of bird, I looked and saw,
All things transpiring on our little world.
And I beheld confusion, envy, strife;
Among the surging throngs of human life.
The power of strength o’er weakness, and the cry
Of wretched want assailing hoarded wealth. 
And more I saw: dark deeds of murder, theft,
Committed under cover of the clouds,
Which ever more grew blacker and more dense,
As deeds of men took on more dismal hue.

And when, anon, up through the murky air,
Assailed mine ears, the wailing cries of her
Who, weaker than her elder brother, man,
Still bore his burden, added to her own:
My heart grew sick, at sights and sounds so dire;
I closed mine eyes, refusing more to gaze,
On scenes opposed to reason, and my heart.

'Twas then a voice in tender cadence spoke,
Bidding me ope, again my averted eyes,
And I obeyed; I could not otherwise,
So much authority spoke in the tone.
I saw no person, but a Presence felt,
As well as heard, and listed to obey.

I looked again- the scene was little changed,
Gross darkness reigned o’er all the sleeping
	world,
Except, at one small point, where, like a star,

[Column 2]
Of purest ray, and primal magnitude,
Shone forth a light of brightest radiance;
Which, as I gazed, enlarged, and as it grew,
Its brightness softened, and its mellowed tone
Assumed the form and substance of a man,
Of goodly parts, and beaming countenance.
A god-like man, who towered above the world,
As Gulliver beyond the pigmy tribe.

A gleaming pedestal beneath his feet,
Made up of stones, each sep’rate stone a gem,
Engraved, in shining letters with its name.
Fair Truth appeared as chiefest corner-stone
Flanked by Justice here, and Mercy there.
Faith shone serenely from her central place,
Love! Her sweet sister, snugly by her side—
While Hope, with smiling lips and eye serene,
Throughout the darkness sent long rays of light.

A standard held the Vision in his hand,
A silken banner of cerulean hue—
Enwrit,in letters like to burning fire,
With “REVELATION!”title most divine.
And with the other hand he held aloft,
A great golden key: and as I gazed,
I heard a voice of wondrous depth and power,
Proclaim this utterance to the startled world:
"The key is turned for woman: and henceforth
She takes her rightful place by brother man.
Her star is risen, and will brighter grow,
And go not out forever. Let it be!"

The vision faded, leaving in its wake,
The glorious light, the heaven-revealed, the true,
Which ever spread, and ever chased the gloom.
And from afar arose small points of light,
Which grew, and multiplied, and coalesced,
As though in sympathy with their great head,
Until, in God’s due time, the darkness fled,
And man and woman, true to his great plan,
Emerged into the glorious light of day.
CACTUS.


THE WASHINGTON CONVENTON
(Miss Anthony's Address Thursday Jan. 23.)
	After a few pleasant words about the
beautiful gavel of Colorado wood, bound
with Colorado silver, that had been presen-
ted to the convention by Minnie Henderson,
of Grand Junction, Col , Miss Anthony
gave a graphic account of her trial many
years ago on an accusation of illegal voting;
how she was sentenced to a fine, which she
did not pay; and how the judges of election
who had received her vote were imprisoned
for several days, and were fed on all sorts
of dainties by the matrons of the city until
they were pardoned out, Miss Anthony
continued: “I get letters 
from all over the 
United States’ asking, ‘Why don’t you
claim suffrage for women under the Four-
teenth Amendment? We have tried that
method even to imprisonment. The
Supreme Court has decided against us.
There remain two other ways of getting
suffrage; by amendments to the constitu-
tion of the different States, and by an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, for which we are asking to-
day. This national method of work is
especially valuable. The delegates assem-
ble in this convention from all over the
Union have a hearing before the Congress
ional Committees, the report of their


speeches are printed by Congress, and after-
wards franked by members in favor of
suffrage to their constituents all over the
country. These documents have a great
educational influence. Do you ask me
whether a sixteenth amendment enfranchis-
ing women will be submitted by this Con-
gress? I do not think that two-thirds of the
members are yet educated up to it; but we
are doing our best to educate them.


THE UTAH EVENING.
	The evening of Jan. 27, was devoted to
the welcome of Utah. Senator Cannon
and wife, and Representative Allen and
wife, and others were on the platform.
The Senator had just arrived in the city,
and the formal recognition of the third star,
which gave particular lustre to the Con-
vention, had been postponed until his ar-
rival.
	After Miss Anthony’s greeting, Rev.
Anna Shaw tendered the welcome of the
Association. She said in part:
	The triumph of Utah is our triumph.
We too, should be congratulated. Every
Star added to the flag—that means all a
flag can mean to any human being in pro-
tection or rights, and is a guarantee of lib-
erty, means the e'evation of every human
being the round world over. It means
that we are beginning to learn that “One
is our Father, and all we are brethren.”
With the incoming of Utah with freedom
for every one of its citizens, not only Utah,
but the United States, and wherever there
breathes a human being, every soul is bene-
fited. This third star is a prophecy that
the stars shall come out on our banner un-
til our blue field will be a banner of glory.
We expected this of Utah. Their men
would have been unworthy sons had they
not done this. No man who has stood by
his mother and has seen the tolls, hopes,
and the time of seed-sowing of both ful-
filled in the hour of Statehood, would have
been a true son if he had refused to grant
her liberty with himself.
	These three stars are the gems on the
crown of our States. Wherever we go in
the West, and look toward Heaven, we
can see these three stars. I welcome you
as one of the three which makes glad the
heart of the woman who loves liberty.
Thrice welcome, grand Utah, not only to
our Republic of States, but to our Re-
public of stars that denote the only true
Republic the world has ever known.
	Senator Cannon eloquently responded
for Utah. He said:
	During the forty-nine years of life in
Utah the women had furnished the courage
and the trust in God. Then when the
question came up as to their enfranchise-
ment, we said “Yes, though it should
take another forty-nine years to gain our
Statehood.” The mother who bore me
endured the trials and privations of pioneer
life twelve years before I saw the light.
The women traveled across the desert with
bleeding feet; they drove the ox carts;
they lived on roots season after season to


[Column 1]
save their grain to plant that others might
have bread.
	In our territorial condition we gave wo-
men the ballot, but Congress took it away.
The first time the men of Utah had a
chance they gave it back again. The wo-
man suffragists of Utah could always get a
hearing when men could not.
	I would say to these sisters of the
National Association, that men do not, as a
rule, feel disinclined to suffrage because they
do not believe it is your right to vote, but
because they believe it is your right not to
vote. But they are beginning to believe in
suffrage, because they know that woman
has always carried the burdens of mankind.
A man who did not at first believe in wo-
man suffrage, said he read Parkhurst’s ar-
raignment of the city government, and he
noticed that while the professional men
laughed, the women held a meeting and
laid out their plan of attack, and the
proudest police captains bowed their heads.
Then he knew that woman was the power
needed to reform politics. In the great
essentials of the world, woman has always
been the burden bearer.
	Miss Anthony referred to Senator Brown,
who had not yet reached the city, as the
brother of Rev. Olympia Brown, who was
a life-long worker for woman suffrage. She
also said she would call on Representative
Allen to tell how it felt to have a wife as
good as he was. Mr. Allen made a very
bright speech. He referred to the great-
ness of Utah in resources, but her best
claim to greatness was in her people. She
had started right in giving the franchise to
that part of society which intrinsically
knows what is right. Utah greatly ap-
preciates this demonstration, made in honor
of its being third in the true and lasting
Union which is destined to grow stronger
year by year, until it shall conquer in
every State.
	Mrs. Sarah A. Boyer, of Springfield,
Utah, was next introduced. She made
some very good points, substantially as
follows:
	The question of woman Suffrage under-
lies all national progress. It means the
breaking down of every institution that
threatens to break down the home. A
century of progress has filled our prisons
and our insane asylums, and depraved the
morals of men. Something is wrong.
We need co-operation of men and women
in our government to perpetuate its virtues.
The Federal Union is to be congratulated
on the addition of so loyal and patriotic a
people as those of Utah. It is 45 years
since Utah became a Territory; women had
the ballot for seventeen years, and used it
well. In the midst of every struggle the
women of Utah had remained undaunted;
working together with men they will make
the name of Utah a synonym for progress.
	Mrs. Emily Richards, of Salt Lake City,
was the next speaker. She considered that
the putting a woman suffrage provision in
the State Constitution was the direct result
of the former temporary adoption of it. 
She said in part: 
	Throughout the history of Utah there
has been a growing tendency toward inde-
pendence, self-culture, and self-reliance
among women. The years in which wo-
men exercised the right of suffrage shows
that they prized their privilege and per-
formed their duties with fidelity. The
revocation of their ballot was regarded as
arbitrary and unwarranted: an injury to be
remedied, rather than acquiesced in. A

[Column 2]
church edict, and the Constitution had pro-
hibited polygamy, and the people had
aligned along lines representing national 
issues. There was such a fixed sentiment
in favor of woman suffrage that neither
party could ignore it. It was deeply im-
bedded in the political conscience, and as-
pirations of the people. Both Republican
and Democrats parties put it unequivocally
in their platforms. Notwithstanding this
the organized opposition of the liquor in-
terest was the nucleus around which various
forms of antagonism gathered, so that it
was necessary to present the cause before
the Convention with zeal and ability.
Still there was a minority of two members
of the committee who reported against
adopting woman suffrage on the ground
that by the vote of women the sphere of
church influence would be greatly augment-
ed. Such an issue could not but be in-
flammable in Utah, and it resulted in a
hand to hand conflict of debate; only a
slim majority standing firm to their pledges,
and the cause of women. But when it
was seen that the measure was bound to
carry the opposition crumbled away, so that
at the last the Convention was practically
unanimous for woman suffrage. It will be
difficult for the future historian to show,
from the records, how deeply woman’s
cause was imperilled. It was the opinion
of many judges and lawyers that women
were immediately entitled to vote. At the
beginning of the canvass the Republicans
had nominated three women on their State
ticket and the Democrats intended to do the
same, but before their Convention the Su-
preme Court decided that women could not
vote before the Constitution was adopted.
Women, however, still took a lively inter-
est in the campaign, and the Constitution
was adopted by more than 20,000 majority.
				—Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.

EAST JORDAN.
Editor Exponent.
	WEST JORDAN has again been divided
this time by the river into East and West
Jordan Wards. We had quite an enjoyable
time here Jan. 13th, being the day for the
organization of the Relief Society on this
side of the river, in East Jordan Ward.
Bishop Hyrum Goff and counselors John
P. Pearson and Joseph B. Wright took
charge of the meeting, assisted by Stake
President Mary Isabella Horne and Coun-
selors Annie T. Hyde and Clara C.
Cannon. Sisters Julia C. Howe and Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson came with them. After
some very interesting remarks by President
Horne and Bishop Goff, the following
Ladies were chosen and set apart as officers
of the Society. Agnes Cutler, President,
Maria Triphenice Goff, Hannah Anderson,
Counselors, Annie S. Cutler, Secretary,
Semira M. Goff, Ass’t. Secretary. Each of
those elected expressed a desire to do their
best in their several positions. After which
Sisters Horne, Howe and Stevenson spoke
words of encourgement to all present, with
interesting incidents of their past life and
great hope for the future. They were fol-
lowed by Bishop Goff who heartily com-
mended all that had been done. If I am
permitted to judge the feelings of those pre-
sent by my own, they each had “A feast of
reason and a flow of soul.”
Agnes Cutler, President.
Annie S. Cutler Secretary-


LEAP YEAR FIGURES.

	GENERALLY the month of February has
only 28 days, but this year, as every leap
year, has an additional day. This is well
known, but the reasons for this arrange-
ment may not be equally clear to all.
	According to the ancient Roman calendar
the months should have 31 and 30 days al-
ternately, but as this made the year too
long, the last day of February, the month
whose days were dedicated to the god of
death, was cut off. But when the sixth
month of the year (our August) had been
dedicated to the Emperor Augustus, the
astronomers found it disrespectful to the
memory of that ruler that this month should
have a day less than the fifth month which
was named after Julius Caesar (July) and
they agreed to add a day to August, and
this was again taken from February, leav-
ing only twenty-eight days for that month.
	By this arrangement the year received
365 days, but the fact is that the earth is
not able to complete its revolution around
the sun in that time but needs 5 hours, 48
minutes and 56 seconds more. As it would
be exceedingly inconvenient, however, to
commence the year at any other hour than
the beginning of the day, it was agreed to
add a day to every fourth year. This
makes each year 365 days and six hours,
which is 11 minutes and 10 seconds too
long. The error is small, but in the course
of 400 years it will amount to about three
days, and these must be disposed of in
some manner. The pope Gregory XIII
after deep calculation found that the error
of the Julian calendar amounted in the
year 1582 to ten days, the vernal equinox
falling on the 11th instead of the 21st of
March, and as this caused much coufusion
in religious festivals, a correction was found
necessary. He therefore ordained that ten
days should be deducted from that year by
calling the 5th of October the 15th, and in
order to prevent a further recurrence of a
similar necessity it was further ordained
that every hundredth year (1800, 1900, etc.)
should not be a leap year, except every
fourth hundredth, beginning with the year
2000. It will therefore be seen that only
every fourth year ending a century is a
leap year, as commonly every fourth year
is. It is nevertheless quite a notable event
that an interval of eight years occurs be-
tween two leap years. Generations will
pass away before it happens the next time,
which will be the period between 2096 and
2104.
	Those who celebrate their birthday on
the 29th day of February should bear in
mind this year that they will not have
another chance in eight years. Ex.


LADY ABERDEEN is a constant attendant
on the sessions of Parliament in Ottawa.
	She occupies a place beside the Speaker
in the House of Commons.
	IT is stated by Rev. Dr. Kephart, of
Dayton, O., editor of the Religious Tele-
scope, the organ of the United Brethren in
Christ, that since 1889 that denomination,
numbering more than 233,000, has admitted
women delegates to its General Conference
and to all its conferences of less degree and
the doctor is happy to report that the inno-
vation works admirably. He also states
that for many years previous to 1889,
women were admitted to the ministry and
accorded ordination on the same terms pre-
scribed for men.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVINGLY INSCRIBED.

            TO AUNT ZINA.
Beloved sister! Honored friend!
Most loving greetings I now send
On this auspicious day to you;
The anniversary of your birth
When Father sent you here on earth,
A great and noble work to do.
Among the choicest spirits there.
Our Father sought, with all wise care,
To choose thee for this earthly sphere,
He knew thy true integrity,
And all thy grand nobility,
Hence gave to thee a mission here.
And through these long eventful years.
You’ve shared with Saints their joys and tears
’Mid scenes of carnage strife and blood,
When persecution’s raging hand
Spread devastation through the land,
For right and truth you firmly stood.
Predestined by a Heavenly power,
You came at the “Eleventh hour”
In these the glorious Latter-days,
Now Zion’s daughters bless thy birth
And useful mission on the earth,
And for thy virtues give thee praise.
How oft thy gentle hand hath smoothed
Life’s rugged path—and kindly soothed
With healing touch the sick and sad,
And by thy loving sympathy
Left burdened hearts from sorrow free,
And made the troubled spirit glad.
And now while thousands grateful raise,
Their loving voices to thy praise
With words of approbation.
I too would add my humble lay
To those who now their tributes pay
in fond congratulation.
O may you live while life is sweet,
And all your noble works complete
Both for the dead and living.
To see the triumph of God's cause,
And deep submerged all unjust laws,
While man grows more forgiving.
And in the twinkling of an eye
Be changed at last with angels nigh,
To drink of “Living water.”
Receive thou, blessed of the Lord;
Thy glorious and just reward.
“Well done my faithful daughter.”
E.R. SHIPP.
Ann Arbor, Jan. 29th, 1893.


TO AUNT ZINA.

At Watertown in 'twenty one
Aunt Zina’s life on earth began,
Just five and seventy years ago,
Left heaven to dwell on earth below.
For goodly parents she with pride 
Can point to England’s sunny side,
As Champion of Queen Elizabeth,
Sir Edward Dymock met his death.
And ere on this dear land of ours,
Her fathers fought in sun and showers.
The Declaration too was signed
By Samuel Huntington, we find,
And when our land with war was sown
The Huntingtons’ there too were known
And dear Aunt Zina, brave and true,
Has always been a soldier blue.
She, of the mobbings in Nauvoo,
Has told the tale to me and you,
Of angels singing in Kirtland,
When mighty spirit swept the stand,
Filled the Temple with rushing wind
Aunt Zina was there then, we find.
Relief Societies she graced.


As Treasurer in the first was placed,
And then, as Counselor next we know
To beloved Aunt Eliza Snow.
They two have traveled far and wide,
Stood by each other, side by side.
In little ways unknown to man
Aunt Zina oft’ has raised her hand
To soothe the heart, the swollen eye,
When none but she and God were nigh.
She’s traveled o’er the dusty plain,
The desert hot, in hail and rain,
She talked where brethren could not
To brightest minds in this fair land.
She soothed the dying, closed their eyes,
And prayed to meet them in the skies.
With Prophets been a helpmate true,
And a kind, good counselor unto you.
Her days are spent in work divine, 
Yes every moment of her time
Is given to serve her Father, God.
And help us bow beneath the rod.
Ah, may we emulate her ways,
Ask God to bless her closing days,
And prove that we her teachings prize
By meeting her beyond the skies. 
May peace and health, and days increase
And joy and love on earth ne’er cease
May each and all, and every one
Thank God for dear Aunt Zina Young.
	MINNIE LOVELAND SNOW


U. W. P. C.

	On Thursday, Jan. 30th, this interesting
organization met as per adjournment at the
office of the Woman’s Exponent. Presi-
dent E. B. Wells in the chair. Meeting
opened with prayer by Elizabeth J. Steven-
son. Roll called and Minutes read and
approved. Miscellaneous business being
next in order C. C. R Wells made a motion
which was seconded by Ella W. Hyde, that
the President appoint a committee to pre-
pare suitable resolutions congratulating the
Utah Woman’s Press Club that one of its
members, Mrs. Isabella Cameron Brown,
is at present the recipient of Congressional
honors. The motion was carried unani-
mously, and R. B. Pratt, E. R. Shipp and
L. D. Alder were named as a Committee.
Another motion was made and car-
ried that the same Committee should
make honorable mention of the 75th birth-
day of Zina D. H. Young, the honored
President of the N. W. R. S., and that
such Resolutions should be recorded in the
minutes. The financial report for the last
two years was then read by Treasurer C.
C. R. Wells. A motion was made and
carried that the report be accepted with
specifications. A motion that Antoinette
Brown Kinney be admitted to membership
was carried unanimously. The chairman
of the Program Committee, Ruth M. Fox,
reported work done for three months. Ella
W. Hyde moved, that as their labors were
not very onerous and as they were a very
efficient Committee, that they continue in
office another three months—motion carried.
	The regular program began by reading
of the 1st Chapter of Parliamentary Law by
Ella W. Hyde, followed by a discussion
and review of the Chapter by the mem-
bers. Phœbe C. Young then read a very
interesting paper on Herbert Spencer—the
merits and demerits of which were discuss-
ed by the Club. Single Tax was the sub-
ject of the next paper prepared and read by
Dr. R. B. Pratt. Meeting adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Lydia D. Alder.
				E. R. Shipp Rec. Sec.


THE LEAPING OF THE LEAP
YEARS.

[Essex Telegraph, England, Jan. 4th,]
	THE year upon which we have just
entered is leap year, and the ladies who
feel disposed to avail themselves of the
traditional privilege that leap year confers
will do well to remember that the op-
portunity presented by 1896 will not recur
until 1904. For the next eight years the
“February days” of the old rhyme will be
“twenty-eight,” and there will be no day
added to make them twenty-nine. New-
comers into the world on the twenty-ninth
of next February will therefore, strictly
speaking, be unable to celebrate their birth-
day for eight years. Why is it that leap
year is thus about to take so long a leap?
Most of our readers, of course, know the
meaning of leap year. Our year represents
the period of 365 days occupied by the
earth in its mighty journey of six hundred
millions of miles round the sun. If the
journey were performed in exactly 365 days
there would be no leap year, but it occupies
a little longer, viz, five hours, 48 minutes,
56 seconds, or within 11 minutes, 14
seconds of a quarter of a day. In four
years these extras amount to about 23¼
hours, and, in order that the seasons may
not in course of time be put out of joint, a
whole day is added every fourth year to
February. This roughly balances mat-
ters. But when we thus add a
whole day and have only 23¼ hours to do
it with, it is obvious that we have gone too far.
Our account upon the bank of time is over-
drawn to the extent of 11 minutes, 14
seconds a year, or three-quarters of an hour
every four years, and at the end of 128
years we have in this way given to our past 
Februarys a whole day. At this rate we
should in 400 years be three days behind.
How are we to balance the account? It is
clear that if we go on adding a twenty-ninth
day of February every four years the
world will some day be celebrating its
Christmas under mid-summer skies. The
bnisness is thus managed. In three suc-
cessive century years, which would other-
wise be leap years, February has to do with-
out its twenty-ninth day. When the
fourth century year comes around it is
again leap year. Thus we take back every
400 years the three days we have been giv-
ing away to make up the “twenty-ninth”
days of February. The year 1900 is the
last of three successive centurial years with-
out a 29 day. The year 1600 was leap
year; 1700 and 1800 were not, nor will 1900
be. By this method the commencement of
the year will not vary more than one day
from its present place in 200 centuries.
even such a variation would tell in time,
but no doubt the beings who people the
world in that “dim and distant future”
will be equal to the occasion.


MISS JENNIE YOUNG, of Scotland, has
been in Mexico for some time, arranging
for the purchase of land for a large Scotch
colony, which, she intends soon to bring
over.
	THE SUPREME Court of Ohio, in the case
of Bird F. Mills vs. the Board of Elections,
decided on Feb. 8 that the statute giving
women the right to vote at school elections
is valid and constitutional.


116 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,   -     -     Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
Second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY FEBRUARY 15, 1896.


A WOMAN ON THE SCHOOL BOARD.

	THE women of the new State of Utah
have good reason to be proud of the recent
appointment of Mrs. Cornelia Horne Clayton
upon the school board for Provo. Mrs.
Clayton is a most estimable woman and
well qualified for the position, both by
nature and education: her parents came to
the valley in 1847, and may with all due
propriety be termed pioneers. The lady
was born, raised and educated in Salt Lake
City, and was always in her girlhood con-
sidered strong-minded; later she matured
into a practical young woman with excellent
judgment and good executive ability; she
was a special favorite with the members of
the ‘Wasatch” a literary society of young
people that was very popular in the ‘70’s”,
and among them were some brilliant,
talented and clever young girls and boys,
who have since filled positions of honor and
trust.
	The editor of the Exponent has great
pleasure in offering congratulations to Mrs.
Clayton remembering with sincere affection
the many happy days when they were
associated together in the office, and the
agreeable companionship always maintained
and it is not surprising to the writer that
the former business manager has attained
to the distinction of filling this honorable
position, and fully expects she will yet
occupy other places of emolument and
trust in the gift of the people. Success to
the cause of equal suffrage, women as well
as men should receive some of the honors
in the new state.


WOMEN CAN HELP.
	IT appears very desirable that the women
of the State who are now invested with
equal civil and political rights with men,
should interest themselves in all public
questious and become acquainted with all
the conditions surrounding the people, or
those that are likely to be the result of any
further legislative enactments. The daily
papers furnish most of the minutes of the
Legislature in both houses, and also pro-
ceedings of the City Council, so that it is
comparatively an easy matter to read up
and become familiar with what these of-
ficial representatives are doing, for the
future welfare of the new commonwealth.
	But a better plan is to go into the Legis
lature as often as possible and listen and
give countenance to the work being ac-
complished, that is in keeping with all the


new conditions and, watch the various bills
introduced and be able to talk intelligently
about the action taken and whether it will
be favorable or unfavorable to the growth
and progress of the new State.
 It was anticipated that women would
occupy seats in the first Legislature of Utah
but being disappointed in this should not
make women indifferent as to the work be-
ing accomplished by men alone; and as
some recognition has been accorded in hav-
ing a woman occupy the position of Chief
Clerk of the Senate, it cannot be denied
some honor has been shown, and the fact
that a woman signed the official papers
that entitled the U. S. Senators from Utah to
seats in the Senate of the United States is
worthy of note and of record and is a mat-
ter of congratulation and of pride to all
women everywhere, who are working for
equal political privileges.
 There have been several bills introduced
into the House and Senate, that are quite
far-reaching and serious in their bearing
and consequences upon the community,
and although women are not permitted to
have a voice in the assembly they can be
heard before Committees to whom these
bills are referred, and they can influence
men perhaps by their persuasive eloquence,
or sound logic in private interviews with
members, and thus bring about desirable
results; changes or modifications in objec-
tionable measures.
 Certainly the presence of women in the
session of the Senate the day the bill for
the age of consent was passed, produced the
desired effect without the arguments being
raised that otherwise would have been
brought forward to lower the age.
 There are many reasons why women
should show themselves interested in the
Legislature, which should be apparent to
all who desire the future welfare and
prosperity of the people of the new state,
and these things should be made a study by
all thinking women who are looking to the
great future and expecting better laws, bet-
ter governments and better conditions for
the world of humanity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	REPORTS received to date are Bear Lake,
Cassia, Emery, Iosepa, Kanab, Maricopa,
Parowan, San Luis, Sevier, St. George,
Star Valley, St. Joseph, Snowflake, Cache,
Summit, Uintah, Wayne, Morgan, eighteen
in all.
	MISS LUCY E. ANTHONY was the guest
of honor at the Woman’s Suffrage Club
in the parlors of the Golden Gate Hall
in San Francisco on Tuesday Feb. 11th.
Miss Anthony is the niece of Miss Susan B.
Anthony of world-wide fame, and is a
very sweet mannered and lovable young
woman. She is also very capable in all
executive work, and when she does speak
has something of consequence to say. She
does not pose as a public speaker although
she possesses the ability and has a thorough
knowledge of the equal suffrage work


[Column 1]
		ANNA LOWRIE IVINS.

	ANNA LOWRIE IVINS, the daughter of
Caleb Ivins and Edith Ridgway, was born
November 18, 1816, in Philadelphia. She
had four brothers and three sisters. Her
father died when she was eleven years of
age and her mother died when she was fif-

[Column 2]
teen, after which she lived with her grand-
father until she was married, by Jedediah
M. Grant to Israel Ivins, March 19, 1844.
She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints about 1838. She was
the mother of three children, Caroline
Augusta, born at Tomsriver, N. J., Georg-
ianna, born in New York City and died there
in infancy, Anthony W. Ivins was born at
Tomsriver in 1852. In 1853 they moved
to Utah, and 1861 came to St. George.
She was the first President of the Relief
Society, and has been Stake President of
the same society about twenty years.
Her life has been a very useful and respect-
ed one. She died on the 10th of January,
1896, of general debility, and passed away,
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She leaves a husband, one son, eleven
grand-children and a host of friends to
mourn her loss.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
 
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
St. George Stake Relief Society, and her fellow-
laborers in the St. George Temple to the memory
of Anna L. Ivins, who died from the effects of old
age and general debility, Friday, Jan. 10th, 1896,
at her residence in St. George.
	Whereas:—God, in his infinite mercy and
wisdom, has seen fit to take unto himself our be-
loved sister and co-laborer, Sister Anna L.
Ivins.
	Resolved: That we mourn, in the death of
Sister Ivins, the loss of a faithful and much be-
loved president, both of the Fourth St. George
Ward, and the Stake Relief Society; a devoted
worker in the Temple, a friend and helper to all,
a loving wife and mother, and a sterling Latter-
day Saint, whose laudable example we might
all emulate with profit.
	Resolved: That we sympathize and sincerely
mourn with the aged and bereaved husband, the
children, grand children and friends in the loss of
a devoted wife and mother and a sincere and
charitable friend.
	Resolved: That these resolutions be read at
the anniversary meeting of the seventy-fifth
birthday of President Zina D. H. Young: that
they be spread upon the records of the Fourth
Ward and Stake Relief Society: that a copy be
sent to the bereaved family and that they be
published in full in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	ANN C. WOODBURY, MARY ANN WOODWARD,
EMMA MORRIS, BARBARA MATHIS, Committee.
			JULIA A. MACDONALD Cor. Sec.

	Elder Anthony W. Ivins, son of the
deceased, arrived at St. George in the early
morning having come all the way from
Mexico via Salt Lake City after receiving
the news of the death of his moth[-]r by tele-
graph. He was accompanied by his cousin
Apostle Heber J. Grant. The funeral
services were held at one o’clock the same
day in the Tabernacle, Bishop Thomas P.
Cottam presiding. The choir sang “Earth-
ly happiness is fleeting.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Charles Smith, the choir
rendered the hymn “Come ye disconsolate
etc.” Brother George Woodward, member
of the High Council, was the first speaker,
said he had known Sister Ivins—who did
not change her name by marrying—nearly
all his life. They lived in the same neigh-
borhood. They were well off. Had a
small farm and mill and were well respec-
ted. They went to school together. He
had always respected her and when the
Gospel was brought to that neighborhood
by Jedediah M. Grant, they received it
with gladness. Spoke of her in a very
high and estimable manner. She was a
very amiable lady from her youth up, and
had worn herself out in doing good.
	James G. Bleak, also a member of the
High Council and assistant to the President
of the St. George Temple and fellow laborer
with Sister Ivins in that place, said it had


[Column 1]
been truly said that she lived in the hearts
of those who knew her. A number of us
have known her about half her life. Said
she died in her eightieth year. She has
labored in St. George Temple nearly one
fourth of her life, and her fellow laborers
there are not, in their feelings, prepared to
part with her and if this sister has ever
spoken a word against any Brother or Sis-
ter, my ears have never heard it. All these
decorations, the wreaths of flowers and the
preparations for this service, show that she
lived in the hearts of the people. There is
not a blessing or a promise that God has
placed in the hands of his servants to give
to mortals on earth, bnt that has been plac-
ed upon the head of this Sister and her
partner who is left behind to mourn her loss.
May God comfort and bless him. We do
not mourn as others of the world do. Spoke
in thankfulness to God that her son, whom
we all so dearly love, is here to see her laid
peacefully away.
	David H. Cannon, President of the St.
George Temple, said that it was with pecu-
liar feelings that he attempted to address
the people, because of the separation from
Sister Ivins. He said he oft-times thought
we put off eulogizing our friends until they
pass away and then speak of their valuable
qualities when it will do them no good.
	We mourn because of our mortal separa-
tion, but we look forward to the glorious
resurrection, to that union which we look
forward to with such fond anticipation.
She always had a mantle of charity to throw
over the faults of others.
	Our meeting to-day shows how highly
she was esteemed by the people, and what
to us is a loss, to her is a gain and that
stepping from this stage of action is only
like stepping from one room to another, and
there is in reality no cause for us to mourn;
and, without a doubt, she has already been
greeted by some whom she has officiated for
in holy places. He asked that the bless-
ings of God might be poured out upon
Brother Ivins and the whole family.
	President D. D. McArthur said he could
not help but rejoice for the condition of
Sister Ivins. We have many of our old
people passing away in peace, having lived
faithful all their days. Spoke of the joy
we should have in laying our loved ones by
in their peaceful quiet graves. Spoke of
the way the saints when traveling, had to
lay away members of their families by the
way. He rejoiced that his father and mo-
ther had laid their bodies down in peace
among the saints of God. He was sure
that Sister Ivins had gone to paradise and.
God, and all is well with her.
	Her example has been of the very best—
let us follow it. The servants of God are
giving us good counsel and advise all the
time. Let us follow it that we may be
worthy of the blessings God has in store for
us. He rejoiced that Sister Ivins and our
old brethren and sisters, who are passing
away, are laying their bodies down with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant desired the faith
of the saints that he might be able to con-
trol his feelings. As it has been said there
is nothing we can do to benefit Sister Ivins;
he bore his testimony that there is nothing in
the power of man to give that has not been
sealed upon her head. Read from the 76th
Section of the Doctrine and Covenants,
commencing at the 50th verse, and he
beautifully portrayed the glory that is to be
given to those who serve the Lord faithfully

[Column 2]
and are valiant for the word of God. He
bore testimony that Sister Ivins had made
all the sacrifice that God had required at
her hand. Said that the same blessings
that were promised to man on earth through
their faithfulness, are just as applicable to
the faithful sisters, and Sister Ivins so or-
dered her life that she is entitled to be
redeemed. She has redeemed her dead snd
has the knowledge that her labors have
been accepted and that she has been a
savior in very deed. It is just as natural
we should die as it is we should be born.
	He prayed that the spirit of God might
comfort the bereaved family. Said there
really was no cause for sorrow at the loss
of Sister Ivins, but still we do mourn for
her present loss. Prayed that we might be
as faithful as Sister Ivins.
	Bishop T P. Cottam announced that all
who desired to view the remains, would
please go to the north side of the building,
view the remains and pass out at the south
door.
	The choir sang "Lead me gently home,
Father." Benediction by Richard Bentley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


TO THE SISTERS.
	SOME preparations have been carefully
made by Sister Emma Empey, wife of
Bishop N. A. Empey of the Thirteenth
Ward, to accommodate sisters from the coun-
try who desire to come and work in the Tem-
ple. The rooms are located just back of
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms and are
neatly furnished for light housekeeping.
	Everything is new, clean and neat.
One dollar for each person per week
including coal and lights and conveniences
for cooking on a small scale.


[Column 1]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Jan.
11th, 1896, Mrs. E. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “All hail the new born year,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing
“Come let us anew,” etc. Minutes of the
previous meeting were read and accepted.
Sister E. Stevenson made a few opening re-
marks, said she felt very much disappointed
at not having our President Sister Horne
with us to-day, felt there were enough here
to have a good time. Since last we met
many things had happened, one very im-
portant thing “STATEHOOD.” We should
acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. Said the Prophet Joseph Smith
told President John Taylor he would give
him a key word that would prevent him
from ever apostatizing. It was to each
morning dedicate himself to the Lord,
which he faithfully did. The speaker
strongly disapproved of speaking against
the Lord’s anointed. Prayed the Spirit of
God to be with us and go from heart to
heart.
	Singing “Reedemer of Israel.” Sister
Barnes felt it a dangerous thing to speak
against one of God’s prophets; was glad to
be numbered one with the Church.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said it seemed a
long time since she had looked on the dear
faces of her sisters and that these meetings
were like a beacon light to her; many had
come here and been comforted and been able
to go home and bless their families. These
meetings had been instituted by Brigham
Young. “O my sisters be humble, if ever

[Column 2]
the sisters needed humility and wisdom it
is now. God loves a smiling face and a
cheerful spirit.” She said we little knew
of the fasting and prayer of our brethren for
wisdom and the power of God; felt we were
in the beginning of a new era. Spoke
strongly of dedicating ourselves to the Lord,
said she often thought of the favorite speech
of President John Taylor that “The Lord
God Omnipotent reigneth.” Asked God’s
blessing to rest upon us.
	A Sister said four years ago she left her
home father and mother for the gospel but
had found them all here; in the last year she
had had many trials but had also many
blessings. Bore a strong testimony. Sister
J. C. Howe felt the Spirit of God was here
in great abundance. Was glad to hear the
last speaker express her gratitude. Said
these meetings had been a great blessing to
her. Had come here many times cast down
and in trouble but had gone away comfort-
ed and feeling ten years younger. The
gospel was sweeter to her than any thing
else. Referred to the sisters having the
FRANCHIISE and knew they would vote for
good men; said to never miss our prayers.
Asked God to bless us all. Sister Louie
Stevenson said we should teach our child-
ren by example as well as words; felt it
was good to have trials for it was through
them that blessings came. When we attend-
ed to our prayers the Spirit of God would
never leave us. Prayed we might have all
the righteous desires of our hearts.
	Sister Mary Silver bore her testimony
and hoped she would be able to endure to
the end. Sister Mary Gurber said she had
come from Germany and left every thing
for the gospel. Had been a member of the
Church 33 years, felt very grateful for the
blessings she enjoyed although she had
many trials. Was blessed and strengthen-
ed every time she came to these meetings.
Gave a report of her Primary Association;
said she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society felt thankful for it, knew
Satan was trying to over turn our efforts for
good. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister M. Wilcox felt it a privilege to
meet here with her sisters; bore a strong
testimony said we could see the hand of the
Lord over us for good. We should ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord at all
times. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer,
felt we owed a debt of gratitude to God for
his goodness to us. Asked God to bless us
all. Sister Rawlings felt to ask God to
bless her said she wae afflicted very much
with rheumatism altho’ she had great faith;
bore her testimony, felt it a great privilege
to do work in the Holy Temple. Sister
Phelps said she had a testimony to bear,
her desire was to be faithful. It filled her
heart with joy to see so many young men
called into the field. Prayed continually to
God that He would go with them and pro-
tect them and fill them with the Spirit of
their mission; if they kept themselves pure
they would have power to command the ele-
ments. Sister Morris said if we became a
united band of sisters we could do much;
we must ever be watchful and prayerful.
Asked God to bless us and help us to be
faithful.
	Singing “There’s a feast of fat things,”
etc. Sister L. D. Alder desired to add her
testimony with the others, wondered how
many of us were living as we should: said
the song just sung brought these thoughts
to her mind. Tell at these meetings we
were fed by the bread of life; here we could


speak one to another. Many had passed
behind the vail, knew that God was at the
helm. Tell that we were all trying to do
what was right. Prayed that we might be
in touch with God and always trust him.
Sister Brown had enjoyed the meeting so
much; said the first thing she did in the
morning was to dedicate herself to the Lord
and it was a great help to her. Trials
brought us nearer to the Lord. Prayed
God to be always with us but especially this
coming year. Sister E. Ball said the
Spirit whispered to her and asked her if
she had not something to thank her Heaven-
ly Father for; she said "Yes much.” Spoke
of her ill health, but knew she was improv
ing. God was good to her in giving her
the things that were best for her to have.
Thought we were living in a glorious time,
our women are pure and the prayers of the
daughters of Zion will be heard and an-
swered.
	Sister Stevenson made some closing re-
marks. Urged the sisters to come to the
Temple and spoke of the very small com-
panies. Prayed God to inspire the people
to Temple work. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Sister E.
S. Taylor.
Zina Hyde Ass’t. Sec


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 15th Conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion,
held Jan. 12th, 1896., President Pope
presiding. Singing “Come Holy Spirit
heavenly dove.” Prayer by Counselor A.
K. Bartlett. Singing “Lord Thou wilt
hear me.” Minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. Brother Enos Bennion
felt it a great responsibility to undertake to
teach the Gospel. The Sisters have the
greatest responsibility in training the child-
ren, therefore they should have the Spirit
of the Lord. Nothing should be given the
preference ahead of making impressions up-
on the minds of the young. Sister Abbie
Oaks felt much pleased to be able to meet
with the Saints on this occasion. Our
children are our hope and we would all
like to have them make good men and
women. Took much pleasure in visiting
the Primary, for all her interest was there.
	Brother Anderson said the Relief Society
was one of the factors of the Church to help
build it up; spoke about circumstances
that brought about its organization, and
the duties pertaining thereto. Counselor
Mary Hall spoke about storing up grain
for time of need; also of the bad impressions
made upon the minds of the young by bad
pictures such as those that are got from
cigarette packages. Sister Sarah Coltin
thought the brethren should lend the sisters
a helping hand in doing their duties, and
help them to get to their meetings; spoke
of the duties devolving upon the Sunday
school teachers. Counselor A. K, Bartlett
thought woman’s mission had been beauti-
fully illustrated this afternoon; felt to en-
dorse what had been said, read a revelation
from the Doctrine and Covenants, and
spoke at some length on the same. Meet
ing adjourned untill 7 o’clock. Singing
“Lo the mighty God appearing. ” Benedic-
tion by Brother Nelson Merkley.
	EVENING SESSION: Singing “Come thou
glorious day of promise.” Prayer by
Brother Charles Bartlett. Singing “Joy to

[Column 2]
the world the Lord will come.” A statis-
tical and financial report was read and the
general and local authorities were sustained.
Brother Sterling Cotton said the Relie
Society was doing a great and grand wor
and one which all should be interested in.
When we realize the importance of the
work of God, we can well afford to spend
our time to help build it up Brother R.
S. Collett said we should not let the paltry
dollar take the lead of our minds. It is
very difficult to overcome the desires of the
flesh, nevertheless we should strive with all
our might to do so. Spoke at some length
upon different subjects which were very in-
teresting. Brother Sowards said if we
could realize the beauties of the future we
would not be as neglectful as we are.
What a consolation it is to contemplate on
the greatness of the Gospel. When we are
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord we do
not have malice in our hearts, but a broth-
erly feeling towards all. President Pope
had been much pleased with the conference,
made a few closing remarks and the confer-
ence adjourned. Singing “This earth was
once a garden place.” Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
				Sarah Pope, President.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held in the 14th
Ward Hall Jan. 21st, 1896. Roll call,
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
Song, “The reason why.” Prayer by Jane
Albrand. Song, “New America.” Mo-
tion of Mrs. Fewson Smith to adjourn the
meeting and attend the State Legislature to
see the election of the State Senators, lost
and the meeting continued. Rights of
States read by Secretary and reviewed by
President Kate Groesbeck. Elizabeth Mc-
Farlane requested to write an essay On
“What are the rights and immunities of
citizenship.’’ One lady spoke of girls being
dilatory in regard to taking part in politics
because their brothers and beaux objected
to women in politics. Amanda Hook
thought if girls understood the necessity of
informing themselves on questions pertain-
ing to women’s welfare, they would think
differently. Did she consider her brother or
her beau as something better than herself,
that he should enjoy more privileges than
she? and said the first duty of woman is
honorable motherhood which we must not
forget to impress upon the minds of our
daughters; for without mothers we cannot
have either home or state. We should
thoroughly understand the Constitution of
the State that we may know our rights un-
der it, and ask our Lesislators to pass laws
that will be just and benefit our women and
that will not be misconstrued. A commit-
tee was formed to pass resolutions and call
on the President of the Association and en-
quire into the law on “A wife’s dower, and
her right to hold and control property in
conjunction with her husband.” Adjourn-
ed for one month.
	Cassie C. Newman, Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

Editor Exponent.
	ON Feb. 4th the Relief Society of Mink-
Creek Idaho made a surprise for Sister
Ingrid Graham, the President of the Society.
About two hundred people were assembled


at the Town Hall. When Sister Graham
was brought to the Hall by Brother Gra-
ham, both of her Counselors came down
and escorted her to an upper room where
tables were set with the good things of the
earth. It being Sister Graham’s 57th birth
day many congratulations were accorded
her and amidst music and many good wish-
es she was escorted to the head of the table
where she was seated among her children
and grand-children on one side and the
Bishopric on the other; at the same time
she was presented with a rocking chair as a
token of respect for her services among the
sisters. After all had participated of the
good things set on the table, a program of
singing, music, recitations and speeches
indulged in till towards evening when all
separated pleased and happy with the gather-
ing, wishing each other many such gather-
ings in the future. Yours very respectfully,
	HILDA M. GRAHAM.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	SISTER MARY BAXTER was given a
pleasant surprise, by a few of her friends on
the twelfth inst., the event being the seven-
tieth anniversary of her birthday.
	She was presented with a beautiful chair
as a token of love and esteem, and appre-
ciation of her good works.
	Sister Baxter acted as President of the
Relief Society of Spanish Fork for fourteen
years before the wards were divided. She is
now acting as one of the Vice-Presidents of
the fourth ward, and is honored and respect-
ed by all who know her.
	After presenting her with the chair, an.
impromptu program was rendered in
which were many congratulations and good
wishes given Sister Baxter. A grand ban-
quet was then given and about eighty
persons partook of the bounties of life.
	Among those present were the Bishop of
the fourth ward and his counselors, and a
few leading brethren of the ward, also
sisters who have labored with Sister Baxter
for a number of years.
	About five o’clock the company dispersed
feeling that they had a very enjoyable time 
one long to be remembered by those pre-
sent.
	AGNES LEWIS.


SWISS AND GERMAN

	THE First Presidency has procured from
the president of the Swiss and German
mission, through President Lund, a list of
nearly 500 names of faithful Saints of that
division of the Church abroad who have
died in the lands of their nativity. The
purpose of obtaining this information was
that temple work might be done for these
worthy people by their friends and relatives
who have gathered to this country.
	In order that those who are willing to
take an active part in attaining the object
herein set forth may have the requisite in-
formation, the names of the deceased, un -
der the head of the branches of the Church
to which they belong, will be published in
consecutive issues, of the Beobachter, be-
ginning with that of Friday, Jan. 24.
	It is likely that ordinance work has al-
ready been done in the temples for some of
those who are listed. Where such is the
case those who have performed it will con-
fer a favor by giving particulars, that the


necessary checking may be done upon the
original list. This information is necessary,
in order to avoid repetition of work. After
it is furnished, lists can be obtained by those
who desire to take part in performing the
needed labor for the benefit of the faithful
dead, in any of the temples. 
	All communications on the subject should
be directed to John Nicholson, Salt Lake
Temple, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last busi.
ness meeting of the Board of Directors of
the National Woman’s Relief Society, a
quorum being present, it was decided that
the annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of dat-
ing from the first day of January to the last
day of December inclusive, reports will be
hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or other-
wise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of the
Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt Take
City, not later than the 20th of February.
	MISS Mary E. CUTLER, of Holliston,
Mass., read the paper of the day at the
Farmers’ Meeting in this city recently.
Her subject was "The Profits of Garden-
ing." From a successful experience of
eleven years in raising fruits and vege-
tables for market, she drew the conclusion
that gardening can be made both pleasant
and profitable. Through the sudden death
of her father, Miss Cutler found herself in
possession of sixty-eight acres. She gave
up teaching and determined to keep her
home and to carry on her farm. The inter-
esting story she told of her forcing house
and hotbeds, her nursery stock, her market
garden, her small fruits and peach orchard,
shows that she puts brains into her work.
She has good judgment and business ability,
and believes in hard work, method and
wise economy. Mrs. Olive Wright, of
Denver, who was present, told of Mrs.
Kate Harlow, a well known fruit-grower
in Colorado, and a successful farmer. When
asked how she fertilized her peach orchard,
she replied, "I feed the trees with hard
work and good common sense.
	MRS. HIRST ALEXANDER, a well-known
Australian journalist, now making a short
visit in London, says that marked good
effects have followed the enfranchisement of
women in New Zealand. The Premier of New
Zealand. Hon. Richard J. Seddon, and the
principal journals have all acknowledged,
she says, that the influence of women dur-
ing the election, and after, has been
beneficial. The women have turned their
attention to ameliorating the conditions of
prisons, promoting the welfare of children
and other measures with which they are
qualified to deal. Giving the vote to wo-
men has in no wise disturbed the even tenor
of their domestic ways, and there is no
symptom that it has rendered them at all
"mannish.” The New Zealand govern-
ment has opened a Woman’s Labor Bureau

[Column 2]
in Wellington, with a woman as manager.
Several lady doctors have a good practice,
and Mrs. Alexander spoke with justifiable
pride of the good record made by women,
at the recent examination at the Melbourne
University. where they stood at the head of
several class lists, and carried off a large
percentage of the honors open to men and
women alike.
	MISS OLAFIA JOHNSDOTTER is a brilliant 
young woman, who has come to the front
in Iceland. At a convention called by the
speaker of the Althing, at the ancient seat
of Laws, to discuss issues of importance,
Miss Olafia was elected to represent the
Woman’s Political Society, which was or-
ganized in 1894. She mounted her sturdy
pony and set her face toward the old capi-
tal, forty miles distant, over a rough and
trying road. Though delegated by her
society she was not entitled to a seat, but
the men recognized that she had a constitu-
ency, and she was made a voting member
of the convention. She is president of the
Iceland W. C. T. U., and carries on an in-
surance business. It was in her "neat,
well furnished office" that Miss Jessie
Ackerman found her, and learned of her
work. In order to study the methods of
the shcools in Denmark, she journeyed
there and remained fifteen months. “Later
I went to Norway. the land of my ances-
tors," said Miss Johnsdotter, "where I be-
came acquainted with a women who was
agent for a New York Insurance Company.
She had made a great success of the busi-
ness there, and I was asked to take the
general agency for Iceland, which I did.
There was one insurance agency here, but I
desired to make a departure and see what a
woman could do along business lines. At
first there were many unfavorable com-
ments, but, as I succeeded, nothing is
thought of it now." Ex.


[Column 1
CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	When I was a girl we knew exactly
what the Lord created women for;
they were to take care of the household, at-
tend to the cooking etc. that was the cus-
tomary work of women. In fact as far as
cooking was concerned we believed it to be
our sphere, but you look out on the world
to day, who are the cooks from one end of
our nation to the other, there is not a wo-
man cook anywhere; the hotels, restaurants
and in the homes of the wealthy all are
men. Why is it? Let me give you a
receipt by which you can always tell.
	Whenever you pay a dollar and a half a
week for anything that is woman’s sphere,
always woman’s sphere no matter what it
is; but to day we pay to cooks from one to
ten thousand dollars a year. Some of the
cooks receive exactly the same salary as the
President of Harvard University. Now
when you pay from one to ten thousand
dollars a year for any kind of service that
is man’s work and the reason why men are
cooking to-day is not because it is man’s
work anymore than it is woman’s work, it
is because it pays, that is all; and wherever
work pays there you find men. Women in
that sphere are always called cooks but you
could not insult a man more than to call
him a cook, he is a Professor of the Culinary
art; one is a woman and the other is a man.
(Laughter.) When I wa[-] a girl the dining-

[Column 2]
room girls were women, but to-day the
table girls are no longer girls, they are six
feet high and two feet broad dressed in
swallow-tailed coats. (Laughter.) To-day
the washer women have no place, they are
all men. When I was in the office of an
eastern laundry not very long ago I saw a
picture hanging on the wall and I counted
the number of persons on the picture and
there were seven women and two hundred
men. It was a group picture of a conven-
tion of the Laundrymen’s Association. So
you see when men take to washing for a
living they are so proud of it that they have
to have their pictures taken; you never heard
of a washerwoman having her picture taken.
	Then again, Dressmaking used to be a
very good employment for women when I
was young, but to-day in every city in the
world the leading Dressmakers are all men
and a woman will not be able to decide
what she shall do until a man over in Paris
settles it for her. If he says all skirts
should be made with godets and bias, why
godets it is and men dressmakers are ex-
cellent. I never had any experience with
a man dressmaker until this last spring and
then I had two gowns made by a man
dressmaker and I will say it is divine, it is
lovely because he will let you have pockets.
	The gown I have on was made by a man
dressmaker and one thing I do need is a
pocket. I have gone to the dressmaker
with the utmost fear in my soul, please
may I be permitted to have a pocket? And
then the dressmaker would look at me in
snch a superior manner and say: “There is
no place for a pocket.” When I said to
this man dressmaker, “Please may I have
a pocket”? He said “Yes.” I took cour-
age and said: “May I have two?” He
said; “As many as you wish.” and I said;
“If I can have three.” So I have three
pockets in my gown and I have quite a time
hunting things for I put something in each
pocket.
	Not only are all the dressmakers of the
country men to-day, but the milliners of the
country are all men. I have a friend who
has a very large millinery establishment
and he has twenty trimmers—not a woman
in the store, and if there is anything comic-
al it is to see a man weighing 350 pounds
trimming a tiny bit of a bonnet and using
his fist for a model. So gentlemen, I
would like to ask you where is our sphere?
	You’ve got it. (Laughter.) We are not
complaining about it, there is not a
woman of us has found any fault, I believe
a man has as much right to be a washer-
woman as a woman has. We women are
not complaining. Why should you men
feel that the moment a woman does any-
thing that women always have done, and
men have not done when it is remunerative
employment that she is out of her sphere.
	If there is anything in my sphere that a
man wants even if it is my washtub he can
have it.
	Take the world altogether my belief of
the future is this, that when men and
women are free and the boys and girls stand
on the border of life side by side in the
same home where God puts them and look
out into the great world of progress, I hope
the time will come when we can say to the
girl child as well as the boy child, “God
has given you powers go out and develop
them, and wherever your heart leads follow
on the work of the world’s redemption as
your work as well as the work of your
brothers, and I believe the best work will


[Column 1]
never be done by men alone or by women
alone and it will never be done until men
and women are free to do the best that God
has made it possible for them to do. We
don’t want men to divide their powers with
us but we do want men to give up our
power which they have taken away from
us. You might as well say if a man with
an extinguished torch had asked a lawyer to
permit him to light his torch by his, that it
would be dividing his light, not only would
it be doubling his light but the light that
the other had taken from him. I see your
good friend Mr. Roberts states it will be
but doubling the vote. I do not think Mr.
Roberts would care very much or be very
sorry if it should double his party vote.
(Applause.) And isn’t it so astonishing
that men do so hate to have women double
their vote and they will fairly go on their
knees to buy out men to double their vote.
(Laughter.)
	Now if it be true that women would help
the most vicious element of society why
does the vicious element of society oppose
woman’s suffrage. Go where you will you
will find the most ignorant and vicious class
of people opposed to woman’s suffrage.
	I would risk my reputation as a prophet
by declaring the largest vote for Woman
Suffrage would be where there was the
greatest intelligence and the largest vote
against it would be where there was least
intelligence. In the state of Kansas at the
last election it was this way and the heavi-
est vote cast against it was by the liquor
league of the state and next to the liquor
men it was the negroes of the state the men
for whom the women of this country sacri-
ficed so much, the men without the women
of this country could never have been freed
the men who were freed because a woman
loving humanity as well as loving one’s
child, sat by the cradle of her baby boy
while she rocked the cradle with her foot
used her hands to write Uncle Tom’s Cabin
and send it out on the wings of freedom
and the seed of liberty was planted in the
hearts of our countrymen. I believe that
Abraham Lincoln would never have been
able to sign the Emancipation Proclamation
had it not been that Uncle Tom’s Cabin
went out before and paved the way in the
hearts of American men and women, (ap-
plause.) And yet these men who won their
freedom by the sacrifice of women were the
men who cast the largest vote against Wo-
man’s Suffrage. It is what slavery always
produces, those who have been slaves when
they have the power to act become tyranni-
cal masters. During the slavery days of
the South there was no overseer as cruel as
the negro when he was made overseer over
other negroes and such is the curse of
slavery that it quenches the impulse for free-
dom in the heart of the slave; and when-
ever I see a woman to-day opposing wo-
man’s enfranchisement that is the result of
the slavery of women belonging to the
centuries of the past; all these years there
has been dawning in her soul no conscious-
ness of the birthright of freedom, and she is
willing to be a subject. Why? Because
she believes in her very abject condition
she can obtain concession whic she could
not obtain as a free woman and the marvel
to me is that so many women are asking
for freedom. And when good men say to
me just as soon as a majority of the women
are in favor of it I will vote for it, of course
know it is not so and of course I know
that they make that excuse. Now we hear

[Column 2]
of two men voting against this measure.
One will say I asked my wife and I voted
as she wanted me. When he makes up his
mind to vote against it he says my wife
wanted me to vote against it. But he does
not vote for it because his wife wants him
to vote for it. Now a man who votes
against it alwaye votes as his wife wants
him to, and when he votes in favor of it he
votes because his wife has no better judg-
ment. It is like the old.
‘you’ll be damned if you do, you’ll be damned
if you won’t and you’ll be damned if you
don’t and you’ll be damned anyway. It is
always the fault of the women somehow or
another. Just as long as we want the ballot
the men are dying to give it to us; they
don’t want to compel us to vote. They said
as soon as you bring in a petition showing
a majority of women in favor of suffrage,
we will grant your petition. So we wo-
men went out and got five thousand names
but they said that is not enough so the
next year we got ten thousand names
the next year we got twenty thousand
names they said “you are doing fine keep
right on” so the next year we went in
with fifty thousand names and they said:
“now ladies, that is very good but we
don’t know you want it yet but just as
soon as we know—and that is the way
they do it. Miss Anthony went to Mr.
Dana, the editor of the New York Sun,
and asked him to use his influence in be-
half of suffrage and he said: “My paper
is used in the interest of the people and
the people don’t want suffrage.” And Miss
Anthony said: “How do you know the
women don’t want suffrage?” She said
“How many women will have to ask for
it?” And he said he thought if 100,000
women asked for it, it would be sufficient,
but he said he didn’t think it was possi-
ble to get the names of 100,000 women in
the State of New York. Miss Anthony
said, if we only have time we will bring
in a million names. Mr. Dana simply
laughed and said: “Miss Anthony when
you bring in 100,000 names the Sun is
yours. So Miss Anthony went to work
and secured the names of 300,000 women
and enough names of men to make over
700,000, and 300,000 and more of them
were women, and when the Constitutional
Convention defeated Woman’s Suffrage
what do you suppose Mr. Dana had for an
editorial the next morning? It was headed
“When will the women of New York
vote?” and then the next paragraph read—
“Just as soon as they want to.” and Mr.
Dana went right back to that same old
chesnut, when the women want to vote
the men will readily grant them the ballot.
Mr. Dana knew he would not do it—
he knew he would give some excuse and
let it go. But we quarrel we women among
ourselves—we have nothing else to do.
if you will give us the ballot or some
interest in the question of silver and tariff
we will have something better to do. I
believe one of your good gentlemen said the
Board of Lady Managers at the World’s
Fair quarreled, but I don’t believe they
threw one of the women out of the window.
We do not deny the men ought not to vote
because the Men Managers quarreled and
they threw one of their own number through
the window. (Laughter.) Did we say the
men ought not to vote because two members
of the city Council of the City of Denver
had a pitched fight. Did we say the men
ought not to vote because the Governor of

[Column 3]
Arkansas wishing to chastise one of the
members of the Legislature expectorated in
his face. Because two members of the house
of Congress last winter thought they were
in a prize ring and flew at each other and it
took all the other members of congress to
hold on to their coat tails to keep them
apart, did we say men ought not to vote?
And did not some such occurrence occur in
the British Parliment not long ago. And
yet the men who did not engage in such
disgraceful scenes ought not to be disfran-
chised on account of them. Now why can’t
you have the same kind of charity for us.
Miss Anthony never had any fight with
anybody, and I don’t know that I have
ever had any.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ADVANCE STEP.
	FOR several years, Mrs. Lucinda M.
Stone, of Kalamazoo, Mich., has been urg-
ing the appointment of women upon the
faculty of the State University at Ann
Arbor. She has brought the matter before
women's clubs and other organizations, and
has presented it to the public through lead-
ing newspapers. Mrs. Stone is therefore to
be congratulated that she has lived to see
what she so earnestly desired, in the recent
appointment of Dr. Eliza M. Mosher, as
professor of hygiene in Ann Arbor Univer-
sity, Michigan, and dean of the literary de-
partment. Dr. Mosher will also have charge
of the women’s gymnasium, which, when
constructed, will form part of the univer-
sity. The structure is to be built by the
women of Ann Arbor, and will cost $50,-
000; $35,000 has already been subscribed to
that end. Dr. Mosher’s duties will begin
next October.
	Dr. Mosher was graduated from the
medical department of the University of
Michigan in 1875, after making a brilliant
record as a student. She began the practice
of her profession at Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
In 1877 she was appointed by the Governor
of Massachusetts as head physician of the
reformatory prison for women at Sherborn.
	A full professorship in Ann Arbor Uni-
versity has never before been offered to a
woman. Hence Dr. Mosher may be re-
garded as highly honored and the Univer-
sity as having taken an advance step.
F. M. A.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 238, East, 4th South.
Telephone 383.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS


Woman’s Exponent. 

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1896. No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Red Cross Relief Work. Foreign Letter—H
A. Tuckett. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. R. S.
Report—Wayne Stake—Anna Coleman. S. L.
Co. W. S. A.—Cassie Newman. U. W. P. C.—
E. R. Shipp. Zina D. H. Young. Notice—
Margaret A. Caine. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—Zina Hyde. National Plan Of Work. In
Memoriam. Obituaries. Conference N. A. W.
S. A. Dr. E. R. Shipp’s Classes.
	Editorial:—Kindergarten Education. Ap-
reciation Of The Ballot.
	Poetry:—Faded Faces—Mary A. Freeze.
Days That Live—L. M. Hewlings. To Hannah—
Lydia D. Alder. That Delinquent Poem—R. M.
Fox. A Poetical Address.


[Column 1]
FADED FACES.

ONE of the saddest sights, to me,
	Is a wrinkled, care-worn face, 
That once was lovely and bright and fair,
With beaming eyes, all free from care,
	Adorned with a nameless grace.
And the form now bent, once straight and grand,
	With the carriage of a queen
The step now feeble and careful and slow,
Was active and quick in the long ago, 
	As any that might be seen.
No thought of sorrow, of death or decay
	Had marred the spirit then,
The awful truth that all things here 
Must change, like the seasons of the year,
	Was far beyond the ken.
Oft have I asked, “why must it be
	That this wonderful work of God,
Must wither and wrinkle and fade and die
Before it can bloom in the worlds on high,
	E’en crumble beneath the sod.
As I look in some faces, the story I read
	Of a sorrowful, weary life
Despondency and hope deferred
Have left deep lines, tho’ never a word
	Has been uttered to tell of the strife.
Disappointment bitter sad and deep
	In other faces I see,
With traces of agony, moans and tears
Suffered through long and weary years,
	Asking “when shall I be free.’’
Despair in others has done its work
	In lasting scars, and deep,
And reason has almost been dethroned
By the aching brain, and the soul has moaned
	In anguish that could not weep
 Some are worn and weary with toil 
	Too hard for the delicate frame,
Through all the day and half the night,
The tired muscles kept up the fight
	Each weekly round the same.
Others bear traces of physical pain
	Which was very hard to endure, 
For years, perhaps, the weary soul
With patience has borne, till sweet control, 
	Has made the spirit pure.
Oh! The mothers of men: What a toilsome life,
	Is theirs from their early years.
And the pitying Father must look down,
And prepare for such a glorious crown,
	Where is found no sorrow or tears.

[Column 2]
Now, I will tell you what gives me joy
	As I look in these faces worn,
’Tis the hope that the Resurrection Day.
Will renew each body and smooth away
	Each line that mars, and remove each thorn.
The countenance then will shine as the sun,
	Being glorious to behold,
As robed in white ’round the throne of God,
Having passed from under afflictions rod,
	No more to grow wrinkled and old.
They’ll sing His praises forever more,
	Who redeemed them by His love,
Their peace will flow like a river fair,
His sons and daughters together share,
	The joys of the realms above.
						MARY A. FREEZE.


DAYS THAT LIVE.

SOME fair days to each mortal are given,
	That shine as stars thro’ misty rain,
Breathing sweet melodious harmonies,
	A balm to soothe life’s bitter pain,
Time glides with ceaseless flight, days disappear,
	Sombre or bright, with flash and gleam,
Fresh with the dews of hope, or blanched with
		fear,
	They pass from sight a fitful dream,
Yet there are days in life’s long journeyings,
	Oasis ’mid the desert sands,
To which we turn as living memories,
	In spite of time’s destroying hand.
With eager zest—quaff its pure waters
	Elixir’s boon, to heart and brain,
Quick’ning the pulses with thrilling raptures,
	Forgetting for awhile earth’s heavy strain,
As aged pilgrims toward home returning,
	With ardent hopes of rest aglow,
So turn we oft with eager yearning,
	To revel in the days of “long ago.”
Fair days within fond memory holden,
	Light e’en through gloom of midnight—give,
And as through cloud-rifts gleam sun rays golden
	Love’s beacon light are “Days That Live.”
						L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]
RED CROSS RELIEF WORK.

	A LETTER received, March 5, by a mem-
ber of the American National Red Cross
Association from Miss Clara Barton, dated
Para, Constantinople, February 19th, tells
of the journey of the Red Cross party which
sailed January 22nd, and also contains the
following:
	“The cablegram sent to Minister Terrell
yesterday by Secretary Olney, and which I
trust was made public, was the outcome of
a call in the morning upon the Sublime
Porte in the person of its minister of foreign
affairs, which was in every way as agreea-
ble, cordial and satisfactory as it could have
been made in any country. Not only was
the fullest permission given for our entrance
into Armenia, but an active and generous
effort was displayed toward making our en-
deavors, our journeys, etc., safe and pleas-
ant, as easy as possible, and also as pro-
ductive of beneficial results as could be
wished.
	“Mr. Terrell was very much gratified
and seems very happy over our success, to

[Column 2]
which the state department and he con-
tributed so largely.
	“As soon as an outfit can be made and
passage secured, our men will start for the
desolated regions. It will be cold and ter-
ribly hard for them, but that is what they
came for. I have met several of the lead-
ing missionaries and other American gentle-
men here. It is hoped the massacres are
over, but it is of course uncertain. The
general feeling is that Russia has said
enough.
	“The distress and suffering through
want and sickness are described as being
both enormous and terrible. Our stops on
the journey at London, Paris, Geneva and
Baden were short, but very pleasant, and
so full of good feeling, cordiality and use-
fulness.”
	Miss Barton refers in the beginning of
the foregoing to the message cabled by
Minister Terrell on the 18th ult., saying
the Red Cross had been admitted and
guaranteed protection and that the gates of
charity are now open. Since then these
dispatches have announced that the Red
Cross party had left Zeitoun, where relief is
most urgent, by reason of its capture by the
Turkish army.

	The national Armenian relief committee
will send $10,000 to Constantinople. It is
stated by the committee that the distribu-
tion of money is now being made among
the Armenians and at present the greatest
obstacle to the work of relief is the lack of
funds rather than opposition on the part of
the sultan. Mr. Stephen E. Barton, of
Westerly, R. I., received a cable from Miss
Clara Barton at Constantinople, saying that
the Red Cross society shipped on Saturday
a large quantity of relief supplies to the in-
terior of Armenia to go by caravan by way
of Alexandretta, on the Mediterranean.
	Miss Barton has forwarded funds to Har-
poot, Sivas and Laruch, and the reports
from the interior indicate that the needs of
the suffering Armenians are increasing.


FOREIGN LETTER.
	Nottingham, England, Feb. 13, 1896.
	Editor Woman's Exponent:
	There are a great many women in the
Church in England, both old, and young;
who would be highly delighted, and bene-
fited, could they have the opportunity of
perusing your excellent publication, many,
yes very many, of these sisters are unable
to subscribe, and are literally starving for
faith promoting and encouraging literature,
suitable to their sex. They are surrounded
day by day, with allurements and induce-
ments to sin, struggling on in the hope of
one day being able to gather to the body of
the church, fighting against the most dis-
heartening conditions, with nothing but
hope to buoy them up. Can the blessed,
yes thrice blessed sisters, in Zion not do
something to keep them, if only to have a
copy of the Exponent placed on file in
every conference house in the missions of


the world, where most of these sisters
visit, there it could be read and reread and
finally passed from one to another. Thus
doing a great amount of good. A little
money thus spent would be productive of
as much good as several Missionaries in the
field.
	Yours in the gospel of peace,
			H. A. TUCKETT,
President Nottingham Conference.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT.

	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, nee
Carrie Lane, Chairman of the Organiza-
tion Committee of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, was born in 
Ripon, Wis. and lived in that State until
seven years old. Then her parents re-
moved to Charles City, IA., which was her
home during most of her life. She was
educated at the State Industrial College of 
Iowa, after which she took a special course
in law. For three years she served as
principal of the High School and General
Superintendent of Schools of Mason City
Ia, at the end of which period, in 1884,
she was married to Leo Chapman, editor of
the Mason City Republican. They were
joint owners and editors. At the end of the
year they sold this property, and Mr. Chap-
man went to the Pacific Coast to find a 
more active field of labor. While there he
sickened with typhoid fever, and, died in
San Francisco. Mrs. Chapman remained
in that city for a year, doing general news-
paper work, and was the first woman re-
porter in that city. During her life there
she became familiar with much of the hard-
ships and privations of working women
in great cities, and for the first time realized
the fearful temptations which beset the
poor girl thrown upon her own resources.
Many sad cases of despair which finally led
to ruined character came under her direct
notice. With the finale of one particularly
distressing circumstance of this nature,
she resolved that the remainder of her life, 
with whatever ability God had endowed
her, should be expended in making the
working woman of the United States
respectable and respected, and, her right to
labor unquestioned. With this intent she
went upon the platform as a lecturer upon
general topics, thinking to gain a foothold
in this way. It was not long before the
suffrage cause claimed her attention. It is
plain to all that when the government
recognize the equal brain power of a wo-
man by counting her influence as a voter,
the world will follow speedily to recognize
her equality in labor. With her industries
recognized, her wages will rise. With
respectable wages, it will be easy to main-
tain character.
	For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891 she was
married to George W. Catt, president of the
New York Dredging Co. He is as ardent
a suffragist as is his wife, and aids her in
her work in every way possible.— Woman's
Journal.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

			WAYNE STAKE.
THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake,
held Conference Nov. 29th, 1895, in the
Loa Relief Society Hall, Stake President
Jane S. Coleman presiding. Singing.
Prayer offered by Pat. E. H. Blackburn

[Column 2]
Continued by singing. President J. S.
Coleman felt pleased to see so many
present, “we should trust in our Heavenly
Father to put such things into our hearts
that will be for the good of all,” prayed
God to bless us in our conference. First
Counselor Mary E. Hanks was pleased to
meet with the sisters, said: “If we all have
a prayerful heart, such things will be said
that will be beneficial to all. We are liv-
ing in a day and age when there are great
improvements, therefore it behooved us to
improve ourselves everyway possible pre-
pare ourselves to bring forth mighty men
and women. It is a great joy, when
mothers see their sons promoted to higher
priesthoods. We should encourage our
children to read good books. The lectures
on faith have been a great help to the
sisters, they understand the principles of
the Gospel. The Relief Society of Thurber,
Fremont and Teasdale were reported in
good running order. Sister Lucinda
Brown felt paid for coming to meeting.
We should live arid practice such things in
our lives that we do know is right.
Sister Nancy Blackburn bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, said, “the sisters
have been organized into societies for a
good purpose and we should be punctual in
doing our duties," etc. Sister Sarah A.
Robinson made remarks which were
timely. Pat. E. H. Blackburn was pleased
for the privilege of being with the sisters,
the progress of the spirit of the Lord to us
is wonderful, it is the right of every sister
to have the spirit of revelation with them.
President J. S. Coleman was pleased with
the remarks made and the spirit enjoyed.
Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Bastian.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—After opening
exercises Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe ad-
dressed the conference, said: “We should
be humble and seek for the spirit of the
Lord, we should be obedient to those who
are placed over us, these meetings are for
the purpose of instructing the sisters,
should instruct our children to do their
duties in the priesthood, we should seek
the Lord and his righteousness and all
other things will be added, the more we
study the more our minds will expand, the
Lord will cut his work short in righteous-
ness,” etc. The officers of the central
board were then sustained and also the
stake officers, the Relief Society of Loa,
Lyman and Caneville were reported in good
condition. Sisters Margaret Pace and
Julia Blackburn spoke encouragingly to
the sisters. Sister Leah Blackburn said:
we should encourage our children to go to
meeting our actions will be called up before
us, there is a great responsibility resting
upon the mothers, let us perform our duties
to the best of our ability. President J. S.
Coleman felt that the sisters in Wayne
Stake are improving greatly, "we have had
a goodly portion of the holy spirit with us,
if, we would seek faith the weak would be
made,strong, mothers should make good
selections for their children, etc., desired to
do all the good possible, obey those who
are placed over us.
	President W. E. Robinson said he had
listened with a great deal of interest to the
instructions given, said how perfectly we
are organized compared with the women of
the world, was pleased to note the increas-
ing interests in the Relief Society and see
them carry out the resolutions given by
those wlip are placed over them; the sisters

[Column 3]

should work in unison with the brethren,
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Hansen rejoiced
in meeting with the sisters in conference,
“the Lord is mindful of the sisters in their
efforts to do good,” encouraged the sisters
to continue in their good work so that our
influence may be felt for good. Presiden
J. S. Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, “Be it my only wisdom here,” etc.
Conference adjourned to be held at Cane-
ville. Benediction by Pat. E. H. Black-
burn. 
ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of meeting held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Hall, Feb. 18, 1896. The
Salt Lake Woman’s Equal Suffrage As-
sociation was favored with a lecture by Prof.
J. M. Tanner on the subject of "Popular
Government;" the lecture was illustrated
and was very instructive and enjoyed by
all who heard it, and showed beyond a
doubt that the Professor thoroughly under-
stands the subject and the ladies appreciated
the compliment he bestowed in kindly
consenting to lecture. After the lecture
Emily S. Richards made a few remarks,
said she was glad that the women had the
franchise and that we should make a study
of all questions near and dear to women.
Thought that a course of studies of the
Woman’s N. A. would be advisable. She
thinks that all women will yet have a right
to vote and was proud of the victory that
we had gained. Attributed our success to
our being so thoroughly organized and
united in our work, and thinks if we will
still hold together it will be a benefit to our
sister States that have not recieved the fran-
chise yet. When she was in Washington
this time Utah was recieved with much fa-
vor, and honored with one whole evening
being set apart for her. Senator Cannon
and Representative Allen spoke in good
terms of the subject. Mrs. Richards thinks
that the best of feeling does and should
exist between the women of both parties,
and that they should work together for the
benefit of woman-kind, and that equal pay
for equal labor was only right and just.
Women will be recognized by their vote
and they must learn to vote intelligently.
A motion to accept the report of the ladies
delegated to call on Mrs. Wells, State Pre-
sident of the E. S. A., be accepted as read
and the committee discharged. Mrs. Rich-
ards was appointed to call on the State offi-
cers and obtain more information if possible,
and report at next meeting. Prayer by M.
E. Bassett.
				CASSIE NEWMAN, Sec.


The senate in Des Moines Iowa think it
has effectually ended the movement for
woman suffrage in the state. The senate
joint resolution to amend the constitution
was defeated by a vote of 25 to 24.
	Queen Victoria, in her opening speech
to Parliament, has again shown her regard
for the American people and her desire for
peace. Newspapers throughout the United
States, although opposed to woman suffrage,
are loud in their praise of her “womanly
wisdom and ability as a ruler.” Apparently
it is only American women whom they con-
sider incapable of political responsibilities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TO HANNAH.

		A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

SWEET friend, with eyes of Heaven's blue,
Where the love of God, shines gently, through;
Kind Patience restiug on thy fair young fair,
And noble traits that add their grace,
We bring an offering on this day, 
And Heaven’s blessing on thee pray.

Lift up your heart for God is love,
Look up the sky is blue above;
And far away in realms unseen,
Thy record stands, no blots between;
But traced in gold, on each fair line,
Read “Hannah you are truly mine.” 

The gentle sigh that heaves thy breast,
The longing thought for precious rest, 
Like incense rare ascends to Him,
Whose earthly eyes with tears were dim,
Thy hopes and fears are in His hand— 
The shepherd loves, his chosen band.

Then take Life’s burden boldly up,
Though mixed with bitter be thy cup,
This is the road thy Saviour trod,
The royal road that leads to God,
May music from the unseen shore, 
Sweet comfort bring forever more. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
Nov. 1895.


THAT DELINQUENT POEM.

COME whisper to me gentle muse
The choicest language I may use;
To tell about my lady fair;
Whose many gifts are wondrous rare;
Ah! With my love who can compare?
This love of mine is sweet seventeen
And yet, through many a changing scene,
She’s passed with most unswerving will
Her chosen destiny to fill:
Come, tardy, muse, I’m waiting still.
From Pilgrim Fathers sprung you say?
Truly that was a golden day,
That landed on this western sod
On barren, bleak, and cold Cape Cod,
Ancestors of this child of God.
“Wife of an illustrious man,”
Another part of God’s wise plan, 
And yet to me she needs no grace
Than which adorns her own sweet face,
For there, her depth of soul we trace.
Come, come my muse! All this is well
But of herself I wish to tell;
My love on others does not lean
For love, and honor, and esteem;
Throughout these vales her praises teem.
She loves her neighbor's herself
Without regard for worldly pelf;
Her hand wiil guide, her words will cheer;
And yet withal she does not fear
To speak her mind if need appear.
Aye true you say: My words are weak, 
Her life and works for her bespeak;
What my poor pen cannot bestow,
And her reward is not below,
But up above, where she will know,
How warmly beats the heart of friends,
And where progression never ends,
She’ll realize her fondest dream;
 Her pen will find a grander theme,
And she will live for aye a queen.

R. M. Fox.
March 2nd, 1896.


A POETICAL ADDRESS.

	[Written of the Seventy fifth Birthday Anniver-
sary of Sister Zina D. H. Young.]

In Utah’s vales, from end to end,
Wherever Zion’s stakes extend,
	Wherever Zion’s songs are sung,
Good will, as for a household friend,
Encircles, Sister Zina Young.

With truth’s eternal cause allied,
	Ages before her mortal birth,
When rebel hosts elate with pride,
	in Heaven—the Sovereign Lord defied;
Distinguished was her zeal and worth.

A chosen One! Reserved to dwell—
	On earth, in these eventful times: 
To be a comforter as well, 
	Among the ranks of Isreal,
Gather’d from distant lands, and climes. 

A sympathetic, thoughtful soul,
	Who human sorrow understands,
Possessed of patient self-control
	And fervent faith, and helpful hands
That fain would make the sufferer whole, 

Our Sister Zina heads the lists—
	Of Zion’s Sisterhood—to day,
A band of true philanthropists,  
	Who constantly, as best they may,
The helpless and the poor assist.

Many, whose names can never die, 
	Whose memory claims sincere esteem,
Co-workers, in the days gone by,
Have been recalled to worlds on high,
	Yet Zion’s ranks unbroken seem.

Whoever, either comes or goes
	Zion is destined to progress
Her fate is not as some suppose
	Dependent on "The arm of flesh"
But all who bless her, God doth bless.

Of Zion’s earliest friends and true,
	Only a remnant we discern,
One here and there, a scattered few, 
	And these (who still we have in view)
Are near the goal, whence none return.

Now! is the time, undoubtedly—
	While friends are with us to rejoice
While each familiar face we see
	And hear each dear familiar voice;
A taste of lasting joys to be.

Haply before we are aware,
	Enduring souls, now weighted down;
Will lose their loads of grief and care,
	And wonder how, and when, and where—
They ceased to fear, Misfortune’s frown.

All, who can read “between the lines”
	Can trace our Father’s kind intent;
Oh! Wherefore question wise designs—
	Always, for our advancement meant?
Surely, ’tis well, to woo content!

For “Sister Zina” much we ask;
	May joy’s unlooked for—oft refresh her;
Long in Love’s sunshine may she bask, 
	Imbibing strength for ev’ry task;
And long may love lit eyes, caress her. 

Sadly we’d miss the kindly voice, 
	And cheery counsel, free from guile,
That makes so many hearts rejoice
	In seasons of severest trial; 
	How can we spare her yet awhile?

The friend of all, the foe of none;
	Akin to God’s most gracious Son—
Are they who let true Mercy lead;
Love! Is a magnet, strong indeed;
By sweet Compassion! Souls are won.

In friendship’s name, we owe a debt—
	To Heaven, or unto kindly Fate,

[Column 2]
That in life’s darkest hours, we’ve met, 
	"Angels of Consolation"—yet—
Disguised in this our mortal state.

Worthies of old—have, entertained, 
	Angels of mercy, so we’re told.
And at this feast, we have at least;
	One Angel, true as earth can hold—
A Woman! Good as finest gold.

Salt Lake City, Jan. 31st, 1896.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held at the office of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT Feb. 27th, 1896,
at 8 p. m. Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Secretary not
having arrived, C. C. R. Wells was chosen
Sec. pro. tem. Roll call responded to by
sentiments from Zina D. H. Young.
Minutes of former meeting read, revised and
adopted. A letter was read from the
Ninteenth Century Club of Provo inviting
the members of the Press Clup to attend a re-
ception given by them. Other miscellaneous
business was transacted and the Report of
the Committee on Resolutions was received
and read by the chairman of the Committee,
Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	The paper on Single Tax question by Dr.
Pratt was continued and followed by dis-
cussion opened by Phoebe C. Young who
had read Progress and Poverty by Henry
George and the Swiss Referendum. Mrs.
S. O. B. Cummings moved that the Single
Tax subject be continued for the next meet-
ing, seconded by M. A. Caine and carried
unanimously.
	Poem (original) read by Lydia D. Alder
on seventy-fifth birthday anniversary of
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young.
	The second chapter from Woman’s
Manual of Parliamentary read by C. C. R.
Wells. Mrs. Caine appointed to read the
next chapter at meeting in March. A
motion was made and carried that Dr.
Pratt send written copies of Resolutions and
Congratulations to Mrs. I. Cameron
Brown at Washington D. C. and to Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young of this City. Moved
and carried that the invitation from Provo
be properly acknowledged by the Cor. Sec.
Program read for the next meeting.
Moved and carried that the same Program
Committee, who have been very efficient,
continue in office three months longer.
	The President stated that she had re-
ceived a letter from the Countess Annie de
Montaigu asking for information concern-
ing the club, etc., to publish in an Eastern
magazine, and was pleased that the Club
was being so well known.
 Adjourned to March 31st. Benediction
by M. A. Cairie.
	C. C. R. WELLS, Sec pro tem.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


MISS MINNIE NEBERGALL is enrolling
clerk of the Iowa House of Representa-
tives, and Mrs. Carrie G. Sherman is en-
grossing clerk of the Senate.

	A RECENT decision of the Supreme 
Court of Washington holds that in cities of
10,000 or more inhabitants, women are en-
titled to vote at elections held to legalize
indebtedness for school purposes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non pareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econdclass matter
	SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1896.


[column 1]
KINDERGARTEN EDUCATION.
	THE movement all over the United States
to establish Kindergarten schools is gaining
ground rapidly, even among pedagogues, and
people are fast becoming converted to the
more recent ideas upon child culture and
methods.
	Fair Utah which abounds in children
ought not to be behind in progressive work
in this direction. Some extra exertions
have been made during the last two years to
give the children of Salt Lake City, Provo,
Ogden and some other localities the advan-
tage of this system of training, but it has
been almost discouraging at times, 
especially from a financial standpoint as fos-
tering the work has been entirely a philan-
thropic movement and it is difficult to make
it understood appreciated and recognized by
the community; therefore the maintaining
of the schools which have been established
has been by a comparative few who have
seen the good results and have been able to
comprehend the philosophy of the system,
and endorse it with zeal and earnestness for
the childrens' welfare and the good of the
race.
	Women cannot too soon urge upon
legislators and school boards the quality and
excellence of the Kindergarten.
	Froebel the originator of this system in
his trumpel-call to the mothers of Germany
says, "Come let us live with the children;"
and as every mother should live with her
children, and many mothers are severely
puzzled to know what to do with the chil-
dren and how best to train and manage
them, the mothers are the ones who should
become kindergarten educators, and the
young women of today can find no better
field or profession than the kindergarten
affords.
	In a lecture given upon this subject in
Chicago where there is a Kindergarten col-
lege, we find the remark "What becomes of
the girl graduates?" The answer is this,
"When a new and almost limitless field of
labor, which demands the highest and best
that women can bring to it stands open;
when salaries ranging from fifty to seventy-
five dollars per month, for only three hours
of laborin the school room during five days
in the week, go begging for lack of trained
teachers, when positions offering from one
to three thousand dollars a year for training
teachers, cannot be filled, we repeat where
are the girl graduates?"
	The same writer says, "better be a sur-
geon without preparation and maim the
body, than to experiment with a child's

[column 2]
soul. What we need and must have is bet-
ter-prepared students to begin with, and
longer courses of study."
	There has been an exertion made by
philanthropic women in this city, to get
more young women into the training
classes, but it is a matter so little under-
stood as yet, that the importance of the
educational training is scarcely grasped. It
is a subject for serious thought and cannot
be too strongly impressed upon the minds
of the young people. If a better generation
is to be reared for the great future of which
so much is said and in which the people of
today are so deeply interested, Utah cannot
begin too soon to provide for this systen of
public instruction and not make it depend
upon the charity and intense earnestness of
a few philanthropic women, who are them-
selves mothers and grandmothers with need
of all their powers and faculties to educate,
instead of raising money by private enter-
tainments, which at the most can only do
very little for the masses.


[Column 1]
APPRECIATION OF THE BALLOT. 

	As the Legislature draws towards the
latter part of the session people generally
seem to become rather more interested, and
the members of both houses are apparently
anxious to use greater dispatch; it is strange
that women have not manifested a deeper
earnestness in the matters pending before
this representative body of men. Because
women were not eligible to vote or be voted
for previous to the Proclamation for State-
hood, women should not show any lack of
enthusiasm in subjects so essential to the
community as some that are being brought
before this body of law-makers, nor should
they be unmindful of the responsibility
resting upon them because of the privileges
of equal citizenship. There are those
who fully expect that at another election wo-
men will be candidates for the Legislature and
other offices in the gift of the people, and
can they possibly anticipate that this can
be brought about without any sort of prep-
aration, any knowledge of what is neces-
sary to do beforehand? The apathy and in-
difference which seemingly exists is not
encouraging, and men need not fear
women who think the only thing required
of them is to talk.
	Education in these public matters is as
essential as in any other direction, and
there is no better place to learn than where
people put into practice the knowledge of
public matters they have acquired through
years of actual experience in affairs of the
commonwealth.
	Certainly the women of Utah are not
lacking in appreciation of this good gift
“The franchise,” and they are no doubt
proud of the fact that a woman was elected
Chief Clerk of the Senate, and why not
publicly acknowledge the honor by going
to the Legislature at least occasionally as
interested visitors, and listeners. Mrs.
Pardee certainly feels desirous of having
the presence of women in the Senate Cham-
ber, and the President of the Senate has
been most gracious and kind to those who
have attended, and all the members with-
out exception have looked kindly and ap-
provingly upon lady visitors, and if one
may judge from their manners are very
pleased that the women take notice of their
deliberations.
	If there are some women too busy and
positively cannot go, now and then for an

[Column 2]
hour or two to look on and listen, there are
many who have the time if they could only
have the inclination; for when one recalls
how women poured into the Constitutional
Convention day after day when the subject
of equal suffrage was being discussed there,
one wonders if they really appreciate the
ballot now it has been obtained. It is to be
hoped women will make a study of govern-
ment at home and wherever and whenever
there is an opportunity; but judging from
the little interest taken in this very impor-
tant Legislature, one cannot but feel they
are losing time to say the least.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. Mrs.
Kate Groesbeck President, the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman’s Press Club are all
taking hold of such subjects as will help in
the welfare of the state, and it is ardently
hoped that in other Counties the same kind
of study is being taken hold of with quite
as much energy.
	It is gratifying to know that the Govern-
or of Utah is consistently carrying out the
equal suffrage idea in the appointments he
is making on State Boards of public insti-
tutions. On the Board of the institute for
the Deaf and Dumb recently appointed by
Governor Wells, out of five persons two
women were made members Mrs. Harriet
F. Emerson of Ogden and Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of this City,
	The Boston Standard of Feb. 13 speak-
ing of the young Governor of the new State
of Utah says:
	“The advocates of equal rights have
indeed good reason to feel encouraged
and stimulated, not only in the fact that
with the admission of Utah a woman suf-
frage state is added to the Union, but also
that a man of integrity, of character and of
broad liberal principles, who recognizes the
value of an intelligent woman’s vote,
occupies the position of Governor of the
new State.”
	“The advanced attitude of the
residents of Utah in respect to the wo-
man question is an example of enlighten-
ment that reflects greatly to the credit of
the people in that western state and bespeaks
a high degree of moral and intellectual
force that might well be emulated by the in-
habitants of other localities in this Repub-
lic.”
	Closing the article of a column and a
half is the following.
	“Surely the women of the East
may well congratulate the women of
the State of Utah upon their representa-
tive in the gubernatorial chair. Would
that all men in public offices might be given
as fair a character.


TO THE PUBLIC.

My Dear Exponent:
	PLEASE give a little space in your
valuable journal in order to express our
warmest thanks to the Relief Society, and
Y. L. M. I. A., also numerous other
friends who have so promptly responded to
the call to forward their subscriptions for
the poetical works of Emmeline B. Wells
soon to be published.
	The many expressions of good will and
kindly interest from the sisters awaken a
responsive echo in our hearts. The active
interest, and substantial expression of good
faith in this labor of love is truly appreciated,
and we trust it will be "as the gentle rain
from Heaven, twice blessed—blessing those


who give and those who receive.” 
	For the benefit of those who have hither-
to been unable to add to this loving
testimonial, we will say that the edition is
not entirely exhausted, but the subscription
list is still open for those interested to obtain
this valuable work.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D.
	In behalf of Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ZINA D. H. YGUNG.

Tribute Paid to Her Character in Ogden on
	Her Seventy-fifth Anniversary. 
JANUARY 31st, will ever be a memorable 
day in Utah. On that date, in a little New
York town was born Zina D. H. Young,
whose labors as president of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints have attracted world-wide
attention. Each year as the day comes
round the people for whom she has done so
much endeavor to commemorate the anni-
versary of her birth in a manner in accord-
ance with the esteem in which she is held. 
The love for her increases with her age, and
although three-quarters of a century have
passed over her head her usefulness in-
creases rather than diminishes as the years
go by. To borrow the poet’s phrase, “she
is seventy five years young.”
	Last Friday being the seventy-fifth an- 
niversary of her birth, a general commem-
oration of the event was undertaken by
the branches of the great organization of
which she is the president. 
In Weber stake a celebration conforming
to the general plan was held in almost
every precinct. In Ogden the five wards
combined and held their celebration en 
masse at the large hall in the new second
ward institute, which was well filled by
representatives from each ward. The ex-
ercises opened by singing the hymn, “O
My Father,” after which Apostle F. D.
Richards made an eloquent prayer. This 
was followed by the hymn, “O Let Us Re-
joic,” sung with much feeling by all, “Twi-
light Imaginings,” a beautiful poem by
President Eliza R. Snow, was then recited
in an exquisite manner by Mrs. Farley.
	Little Lucy Woodward sang very nicely
the song “Wait, Mr. Postman,” after which
Miss Josie Zitsman rendered with marked
power the impressive poem entitled “Eve-
ning Thoughts,” by Eliza R. Snow.
Mrs. Doxey and Mrs. Poole sang a hymn 
and their effort was much appreciated.
Mrs. Christenson recited the poem, “A
Christmas Idyl,” bringing out with her
well modulated voice the full, rich meaning
of that poem written by Bishop Whitney.
	Apostle F. D. Richards then made a
strong address on the life, work and
character of Zina D. H. Young. He
eulogized her sterling qualities, her devotion
to her religion and to the cause of humanity. 
He told how impossible it was to think of
the Relief Society without thinking of this
great woman who had. devoted so many
years of her life to its upbuilding; spoke
incidentally of the noble work done and be-
ing done by the society in this and other
stakes and pointed out how such labors
were the result of this one woman’s 
unselfish devotion
	Bishop White of the third ward and
Counselor Scowcroft of the second ward
followed with brief addresses in which they
paid tribute to the Relief Society and to the
noble woman, who is its president. Hon.

[Column 2]
F. S. Richards made an eloquent address in
eulogy of President Zina D. H. Young,
referring to the influence she has exerted for
good in the world. He also referred to the
work of Eliza R. Snow as another illus-
tration of an unselfish and devoted woman,
but did not allow himself to wander far
from the subject of his address—Zina D.
H. Young—He also very strongly praised
the work of the Relief Society. His
address as pronounced by many to be a
master-piece, and it is hoped that it may
sometime be published.
	Mrs. H. C. Brown made a few well-chosen,
brief and instructive remarks, as did Mrs.
F. D. Richards, the president of the Relief
Society of this stake and the first counselor
of the president. In closing, Mrs. Rich-
ards expressed a hope that President Zina
D.H. Young should live and be president
of the Relief Society for at least twenty-five
years yet and asked that all so minded
should rise to their feet. Instantly the en-
tire assembly was standing.
	All joined in singing the Doxology, after
which Joseph A. West pronounced the bene-
diction.
	A noticable feature of the gathering was
that people of all sorts, the young and the
old, the rich and the poor, the learned and
the unlearned, were gathered together to
honor a character so beautiful in its strength,
so strong in its beauty.
Herald, Feb. 3, 1896.


NOTICE.
	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall Saturday
March 21. Meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m. A punctual attendance
of the officers and members from all the
branches in the Stake is requested. All in-
terested are cordially invited.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SEC


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan.
25th 1896, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “Now we’ll sing with one
accord.” Prayer by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
Singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she was happy to
see and meet with us to-day. Spoke of a
letter just recieved from a young man who
had been helped to go to the Keeley,
thought this was good seed sown. She
said she had read in the Book of Mormon
about those who wanted to do good and
help those in distress but who were pre-
vented by circumstances. Thought we
should feel for those in trouble and comfort
and help them, for this was our mission.
Spoke of prayer, said Joseph Smith set a
noble example; spoke of purity, felt to
grieve over young people going astray.
Thought the fathers should talk to their
sons as well as the mothers to talk to the
daughters. The speaker felt grateful that
she lived in this peaceful valley, also for the
many blessings which she enjoyed, prayed
the peace of God to be with us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said we had all come
here to-day to get more of the Spirit of God
and to renew our strength; said we were
living in perilous times; many things were

[Column 2]
creeping in to wean the people from the
things of God. Wealth was one great
thing. Said she heard President Young
say the time would come when the people
would be tried with wealth; knew we must
be tried in all things. Sister Catherine
Forsythe bore a strong testimony. A sis-
ter said she constantly prayed for wisdom,
that that was the greatest thing to ask for.
She had no comfort outside the gospel; felt
it was a noble thing to look after the poor,
she loved them. Sister Carlhurst bore a
faithful testimony; spoke of her Temple
work and the joy it gave her.
	Counselor Annie Hyde said she enjoyed
hearing the testimonies of her sisters, and
that it strengthened her very much. Spoke
of the severe illness of her little son and
knew he had been healed by administration
under the hands of Sister Mary Ann Hyde.
Sister Sampson exhorted mothers to look
after their daughters and gain their confi-
dence and be one with them. Made other
good remarks.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony to the
goodness of God. Spoke of a very severe
illness she had been afflicted with and told
how she had been healed almost instantly
by administration. Said she had prophe-
cied and seen the fulfillment of it. Sister
Marguerite O. Brown loved to speak of the
goodness of God. Told of an awful acci-
dent which happened to her little son and
the faith she had for him and was able to
exercise. Said her neighbors wanted to go
for a doctor but she said no. She prayed
over him and heard a voice say in her ear,
“Fear not your child will be all right.”
He was healed and she knew it was the
prayer of faith which saved him. Sister
Elizabeth Parks spoke of the healing
power which was in our midst, also of
prayer. Related an instance of her being
very sick and she requested her name
handed in at one of these meetings to be
prayed for. Said she had felt it all
through her body and had been healed.
Sister Mary Gurber said she could bear
testimony to the last speaker’s remarks,
for she was the one who requested her
prayed for; felt to rejoice that these gifts
and blessings were ours.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the great
blessing Sister Zina Young had been to
her. Bore a strong testimony and prayed
she might always be faithful. Sister
Sophia Nuttall spoke of making home
pleasant so children will want to stay
there. Our first thought should be of
our children. Felt that those who were
born in these days had a great work to
do. Sister Zina Card made an announce-
ment about the Exponent, also about
Sister Sorenson and her great work and
that she was trying to form a class here.
Exhorted the sisters to watch their child-
ren and train them. Said dress was noth-
ing in comparison to their virtue and
character. Spoke of treating our hired
help kindly. Said she did not believe in
class distinction, felt that the Spirit of
God was here. Prayed God to bless us
all.
	President Horne made a few closing
remarks. Had a little business to lay be-
fore the sisters, felt it was hardly the
thing to speak of temporal things after
such a feast as we had had.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Do what is right.’’ Benediction
by Sister E. J. Stevenson.
ZINA HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL PLAN OF WORK.

	THE following plan of work for 1896 was recommended by the N. A. W. S. A. at
the annual meeting in Washington, and
was adopted by the convention:
	Believing that the surest path to victory
lies in the united, earnest and harmonious
effort of a great and powerful organization,
based upon the one claim of "No sex in
citizenship," we recommend that the chief
line of work for the coming year shall be
further organization. Last year the Plan
of Work Committee said: We believe that
three things are of Supreme and immediate importance.
1. A practical plan of organization,
which shall unite in State and National
Associations sufficient numbers fairly to re-
present the true status of the question in
the minds of the public.
2. A method to bind the clubs more
closely to the State and National Associa-
tions, and to find a means of keeping every
club organized and alive until the complete
enfranchisement of women shall relieve it
of further responsibilities.
3. Methods to raise money with which
to conduct the necessary organization.
	In 1896 we believe still that these three
things are of "supreme and immediate im-
portance.” We believe the confidence es-
tablished in the possibilities of organization
resulting from the successes of 1895 will in-
spire each member of the Association to
resolve that twice the amount of money
shall be expended for this work in 1896,
and every member should join in the ambi-
tion to assist in producing a double club
membership by the next Annual Meeting
in 1897.
ORGANIZATION.
	We recommend that a standing Commit-
tee on Organization be continued and that
it be nominated by the Business Committee
and elected by the Convention, as last year.
	Through the generosity of our "Lady
Bountiful,” Mrs. Southworth, the N. A.
W. S. A. has been enabled to establish a
headquarters in Philadelphia. We have
long needed a central point from which our
work could be issued, and that we have at
last established a headquarters in a business
block, is a step indicative of increased dig-
nity and prosperity. It is now eminently
proper that as much of the organization
work as possible shall be placed in the
headquarters. We recommend that the
publication and mailing of the Bulletin and
all business connected with it be placed in
the headquarters. We recommend also
the clerical work necessarily arising from
the orders and mailing of the books for the
Course of Study be transferred to Phila-
delphia.
	It has been demonstrated that a compara-
tively large sum is required for clerk hire
in order to do a correspondence necessary
to do efficient field work. If double the
money is to be expended in the field the
coming year, we must expect to pay a sum
proportionately larger for office expenses.
We therefore recommend that a regular
clerk be allowed the Organization Commit-
tee, and that an office be provided by the
Committee convenient to its chairman.
	We recommend that each lecturer em-
ployed by the Organization Committee be
authorized to use the title "Lecturer and
Organizer of the N A. W. S. A.”
	We recommend-that the provisions in the

[Column 2]
Plan Of Work of 1895, that "the plans of
the Committee on Organization shall be
approved by the Business Committee be-
fore being carried into execution,” and
that "the Business Committee shall make
a contract with each organizer employed as
to financial remuneration, ” be adopted for
1896.
	We recommend that the Organization
Committee be instructed to aid in strength- 
ening and increasing the organization of
North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana,
Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and
Oklahoma. These States surround our
nucleus of suffrage States, where the great-
er promise of the early enfranchisement of
women is to be found. The work so well
begun in these States this year should be
continued until all are fitted for campaigns.
We recommend especial attention to Idaho,
where an amendment will be voted on in
November, to Arizona and Oklahoma,
where Constitutional Conventions may be
called during the year, and to Nevada,
where an amendment has passed one Legis-
lature.
	We recommend especial help in organiza-
tion for Delaware, where a Constitutional
Convention is expected soon.
We recommend that each Southern State,
not yet well enough organized to hold a
State Convention and elect its officers by
representation, shall be aided in organiza-
tion; but in the event that any Southern
State decides to hold a Constitutional Con-
vention, the work of the South shall be
concentrated upon that one State. As
Virginia stands at the foot of our list of
States in point of organization we urge es-
pecial help for that State.
	We recommend that each State appoint
an Organization Committee to push the
work of State organization, and we urge
especially that each State, so far as possi-
ble, effect county organization.
WORK FOR CLUBS.
	We recommend, the continuation and
financial support of the Course of Study in
Political Science.
	We recommend the continuation of the
National Suffrage Bulletin, as an econom-
ical and simple method of communication
with the local clubs.
	We recommend that blank-books for
secretaries and treasurers, order-book and
other supplies necessary for local clubs,
shall be kept in stock at the headquarters,
where they can be sold at low rates to all
clubs. We recommend that letter-paper
with a printed head suitable to all local
clubs be provided at headquarters, and sold
to all who desire it
	We recommend that the Business Com-
mittee appoint a committee of three to pre-
pare: a series of booklets on the biographies
of the early leaders of the woman suffrage
movement. These biographies must be
brief enough to be read at a program meet-
ing of any club. We believe a more in-
timate knowledge of the personality, the
character and sacrifices of these leaders will
not only interest all local workers, but will
inspire them with fresh resolutions to serve
our cause. The biographies should be
sold at the local clubs and all others desir-
ing them, at low rates.
	We repeat a recommendation of the
Plan of Work of 1895; For practical work
looking towards legislation, we recommend
1 that each State Association, through its
local clubs and individual workers, shall
gather-from the tax lists of all the counties

[Column 3]
the number of women holding taxable pro-
perty and the amount of taxes paid. This
has already been done in New York and
Kansas, likewise Connecticutt, and the total
amount of taxes paid by women in those
States was a revelation to the public, and
compelled every respector of the Declara-
tion of Independence to believe in woman
suffrage.
	We recommend, further, that in all States
where unjust laws exist concerning wo-
men, the State Association shall endeavor to
secure the revision of those laws. We re-
commend them to agitate for school suffrage,
and in the twenty-three States where this
form of suffrage is enjoyed, to use all their
powers to get out a large vote of women.
Next we urge them to agitate either for
municipal or presidential suffrage. We re-
commend to all States that they defer ask-
ing for a constitutional amendment to be
submitted to popular vote until the State is
well organized, and until there are strong
indications that the chief political parties
will endorse woman suffrage in their plat-
forms.
	We also recommend that each local club
send delegations to each county political
convention, and to each primary when
possible, and that the State Associations
send delegations to each State Political
Convention, and urge upon all of them the
endorsement of women suffrage in their
platforms.
	We recommend that this Association
urge the women throughout the United
States, whether in organizations or out, to
see that delegations or individuals wait on
every man who holds a legislative office, or
is a candidate for such office, to secure his
promise for legislative action favorable to
woman suffrage.
	We recommend that a Committee of
Letter-Writers shall be appointed by the
Business Committee. The persons to serve
on this committee must all possess unusual
gifts in the art of letter writing. One shall
be appointed for each organizer. It will be
her duty to place herself in correspondence
with the new clubs reported to her by that
organizer. She will encourage the new
workers, advise them and help them in all
ways possible. We believe by this means
the local club will be nurtured more care-
fully than heretofore, and that clubs compos-
ed of weak elements may in this manner,
be trained to become independent forces.
FINANCE.
	The Plan of Work Committee estimates
that $10,000 should be expended by the
Organization Department in the coming
year. We believe this amount can be raised
with proper effort. 
	Recognizing the aid the Entertainment
Committee has given to the local clubs in
suggestions of ways to raise money, we
heartily recommend the continuance of that
committee.
	We recommend that each local club in
the United States be appealed to for aid in
the national work of organization. We
recommend that the month of May be
made a "benefit” month for the National
Organization, and we urge local clubs
throughout the nation to give some kind of
entertainment during this month, the pro-
ceeds to go to the National Organization
Fund.
MISCELLANEOUS
	We recommend that brief articles written
by well known individuals shall be furnish-


ed at least once a month, or oftener if possi-
ble, by the headquarters at Philadelphia, to
the Press Committees of the various States
who are willing to receive them. Each
State Committee will ascertain the number
of papers willing to print these letters, and
will send to each a copy which has been
prepared at headquarters. In this way the
article will appear simultaneously all over
the United States, after the manner of a
syndicate letter.
	Our Committee is firmly convinced that,
if this Plan of Work can be carried out
carefully and wisely, our association may
meet at its next Annual Convention proud
in the consciousness of a membership doubt
led and a cause strengthened. Let our
Association know no idlers the coming
year but let it make “a hard pull, a strong
pull, and a pull altogether,” that we may
build an association whose power will be
felt from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and
from Canada to the Gulf.
	Submitted by Plan of Work Committee,
	CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT ,  Chairman.
	ANNA L. DIGGS,			}
	LAURA CLAY,			}	Members
	MARY G. HAY,			}
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	}


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Orangeville ward Relief
Society, to the memory of our beloved Sister
Mary Catherine Anderson, who departed this
life Oct. 10, 1895, at her home in Orangeville,
Emery Co.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in his wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
Catharine Anderson.
	Be it resolved, that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of Him, “Who doeth all
things well.” we do recognize in her death, the
severe loss of a faithful, energetic and efficient
teacher, in our society.
	A true friend to the needy, a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother, and
a true Latter-day Saint, we also recognize in her
faithful labors and devotion to the cause of truth,
an example worthy of emulation of each member
of our society.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her bereaved husband, Brother Swain Anderson,
her children and friends in the loss of a faithful
wife, loving mother and sincere friend. Also
that these resolutions be placed upon the records
of the Orangeville Ward Relief Society and be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a 
copy be sent to the family of our dear departed
sister.
	RODHA E. ROBERTSON, Prest.
	MARY A. SORENSON, Sec.


[Column 1]
	OBITUARIES.

IT becomes the painful duty to record the
death of one of our dear sisters of the Relief
Society.of this Stake of Zion; Sister Mary Larrette
Picton Teasdale, daughter of James and Jane
Phillips Picton and wife of Apostle George Teas-
dale, who died at Colonia Juarez Chihuahua,
Old Mexico, of pulmonary emplysema and
dropsy, Dec. 14th, 1895. Was born at Nephi,
Juab County, Utah, May, 26th, 1863.
	Sister Teasdale leaves a husband and three
children to mourn her loss; one an infant, nine
months old, also her sister’s children, two boys,
and many friends who deeply sympathize with the
family, in their bereavement.
	She held position at time of her decease as
first Counselor to Stake President of Young
Ladies’ Mutual Asnociation, President of Stake
Primary Association and member of Relief
Society. Sister Teasdale was a Latter-day Saint
in very deed, an earnest worker for the cause of
truth, was kind and benevolent to all around her,
and although she suffered much was never heard
to complain. All was done for her that loving
hands could do, but she finally succumbed to the
inevitable; she spoke of her death calmly to a
dear friend a few days previous; and although
leaving an affectionate husband and loving

[Column 2]
children, she felt resigned to the will of her
Heavenly Father; dying firm in the faith of a
glorious resurrection with the Just.
	We recognize in the death of Sister Teasdale,
the loss of a faithful, energetic worker, a friend
to the needy, a comforter in the hour of trouble,
we esteem her faithful labors and devotion to the
interests of Zion as worthy the emulation of every
member of our society. Therefore be it resolved
	That we condole and sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother and sincere
friend.
	Resolved that these resolutions be inscribed
in our Records of the Relief Society, and that we
publish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Gone, dear sister, thou hast left us,
Our Father in wisdom has bereft us;
Gone, to dwell in a higher sphere,
And left us awhile to sojourn here.

Bereft of thee, sister, causes anguish and pain;
But, as, our loss is your infinite gain,
We meekly bow to the chastening rod,
And, acknowledge the hand of the Lord our God.

Husband, children and friends deplore thy loss,
But are seeking nobly to bear their cross,
Knowing that thy salvation’s sure;
As thou didst unto the end endure.

’Tis true the trial is severe,
But we will seek your loved ones to cheer,
And with them bow beneath the Rod,
And seek to serve the Lord our God.

And now thou hast laid thy body down;
And gone to wear a righteous crown,
Our race also, will soon be run,
Our work on earth will soon be done.

What consolation, this doth give—
To know that thou didst nobly live,
O may we ever faithful be,
And share celestial joys with thee.
	H.S.B.

		IN MEMORIAM.
	OF Sister Laura McCleman Whipple, of Vernal,
Arizona, wife of Hyrum Whipple, and daughter
of William and Elsie McCleman, of Colonia Juarez,
who died of liver complaint, at Colonia Juarez
Chihuahua, Old Mexico, Dec. 12, 1895, while on a
visit to her mother. Sister Whipple leaves a
husband and two children, one an infant, to
mourn her loss and many sorrowing relatives and
friends, Sister Whipple was a faithful Latter-day
Saint, whose deeds were worthy of emulation.
We mourn a sister and a friend and deeply
sympathize with the family in their affliction and
resolve that we the officers and members of the
Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with and
seek to cheer the bereaved family in their hour of
trial, and that a copy of these resolutions be
inscribed on the Records of the Relief Society,
and that we publish the same in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. 
			Phoebe Fife, President.
			Hannah Smith Ballinger, Sec..

So, Sister thou hast left us too,
Thy Father called’st, well thou must go,
Thy mission, here below is done,
The victory over death thou hast won.

And now the battle of life with thee is o’er...
Thou wil’t labor here with us no more,
Thou wil’t,labor now in another sphere—
Not forgetting your kindred here.

Husband, children and parents, that loved yo u
well,
Will strive to be faithful,that they may dwell;
Where trouble and anguish and pain are o’er;
Where Satan and sin, can trouble no more.

So now, dear Sister, we bid you farewell, 
We long for the time, when with you we may
dwell. 
We’ll strive true Saints, indeed to be,
To share Celestial Joys with thee. 
	H.S.B.
Colonia Juarez.


QUEEN VICTORIA has. 67 living decend-
ants. And yet they say that if women are
allowed to take part in politics, the human
race will die out!


N.A.W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	Now then do we understand the intricate
problems of state which come up before
us? Is it not wonderful how deep those
problems are as soon as the women want to
have anything to do with them. I had not
had much experience and I did not know
as much about politics as I do now when I
went up to our Legislature with great fear
and trembling in my heart for fear the pro-
blem before us would be so deep and pro-
found, but when I expressed my fear to the
lady who was with me she said undoubted-
ly I could understand it. So we went up 
into the gallery where they keep us women
and the Clerk read something from the
desk and I did not understand a word.
Then a gentleman took the floor, run his
fingers through his hair and I listened with
great eagerness to what he was going to
say and the first word I heard him say was
"fish." He talked for an hour or two.
He declared it was better for the farmers of
Massachusetts, better for the great institu-
tions of Republicanism, better for this mag-
nificent, free and independent government,
that we catch fish on a hook; and the other
side took up their side of the question and
with just as much vehemence declared that
fish ought to be caught with a seine. And
for three days and a half they argued this
deep and profound problem, catching fish,
and then when they put it to a vote, they
decided with a Republican majority to catch
them both ways. (laughter.) I had such
good success that time I thought I would
go back again and the next time I went up
they had the subject of “lobster” under
discussion. They had a lobster there and
were measuring it with a rule, to see how
long a lobster should be allowed to grow
before it should be caught and sold upon
the market. They finally decided that if
any man caught a lobster which did not
measure 10 1/2 inches, he would be fined
$5.00 and two, $10.00. And I said “What
are you going to do with the young lobsters
in the future?” They said they were going
to stay there and they would catch all the
old ones and sell the old and tough ones
that came in. So we got the old lobsters,
and New York got the tender ones. So 
they went on and protected every living
thing on the earth except folks. So we
went up and said: “Now gentlemen, you
have protected the baby fish, how shall
men catch baby boys, one at a time on the
hook or with a snare as they are catching
them in the dens of vice in the cities?" We
had permission to withdraw, and if there is
anything we women know how to do it is
to withdraw. We all went back again and
we said: “Nowgentlemen, you have
protected the baby lobster until it is 10 1/2
inches long, and won't you protect the
baby girl until she is as old as the lobster is
long?" And we said: “Gentlemen, you
have protected all living and breathing
things in the City of Boston, that Athens
of America, that center of culture in the
United States where we have Faneuil Hall,
where we have a school of philosophy,
where we have a John L. Sullivan and
where we have a greater portion of the cul-
ture that this nation has been able to pro-
duce.” We said: Now you have protected
everything can’t you protect beaten wives
for we have 2,000 cases of cruel wife beat-
ing every year in the slums of the City; and
I was a dispensing physician. The bill we


[Column 1]
drew up was the best bill I ever saw and it
read like this: “Any man who brutally
beats his wife shall be beaten in turn and
sentenced to not more than 40 nor less than
20 days." Some one said “Miss Shaw,
you are a missionary.” I said “Yes.”
Would you like to see such a man then go
to a home and see the poor little woman
who was dying, and when her husband
came home he wanted her to get right up
and get his supper. He caught her by the
hair and dragged her out of the bed on the 
floor and then kicked her with his great
boots until she was almost insensible; and
what was done to that man. He was sent
up for sixty days to the Island. This hap-
pened along in May. Now this Island is a 
beautiful spot in Boston Harbor. There is
a building upon the Island, one of the most
beautiful buildings—it was a contract
building. (Laughter.) That was where
they sent him and he was given a room all
to himself and three straight meals a day
and the gentle zephyrs of the Atlantic
fanned his fevered brow; he spent the hot
summer months in that delightful way,
while his wife got a chance to stay at home
and take care of the children and earn a
living for him. Now we wanted him to be
punished. When a man gets to be so
brutal and so beastly that he beats a woman
and so cowardly that he beats a woman be-
cause she can’t beat him back, then they
put him on the road breaking stones and
they pay his wages to his wife to support
the family, and on Saturday night they
lock him up in jail and on Monday morning
set him to work again breaking stones.
This is the plan that is adopted by one of
our states. If I could have a say in that
beating law I would set him to breaking
stones and when he would use his muscle
up on stones he would not beat his wife.
Then they gave us permission to withdraw.
As we women were going out we met
several men, we learned they were a com-
mittee from the Milk Dealers Association of
the State of Massachusetts they wanted pro-
tection for their milk cans—they had been
followed up by some people who had been
stealing the milk out of the cans and had
battered the cans all up. So these men
got protection just three hours after their
bill was taken up. I never can remember
anything exactly, I never could memorize
anything but that bill was something like
this: “Any person or persons who inter-
feres with the milk cans or who will erase
the name of the owner of a milk can from
the milk can of the milk dealer or milk
dealers or defaces a milk can owned by a
milk man or a milk dealer or milk dealers
shall be fined not to exceed $100.00 or
three months imprisonment. Exactly word
for word the same as the fine imposed on a
man for brutally beating his wife is the fine
imposed for mutilating a milk can and these
men got the milk bill passed so easily and I
said to them: “Why is it that you can get
your milk cans protected.” And they said:
“We are a committee from a great organiza-
tion and if this legislature had not passed a
bill which was so just in the interests of our
business, every man there knows he would
be defeated next year and some other man
would come up in his place. So we per-
-ceived that if the women of Massachusetts
had the right to vote, their bill too in refer-
ence to wife beating would have been
passed. It is the power of the ballot that
wins. Why is it that the great politicians
of the west who desire to go to congress

[Column 2]
nearly break their necks trying to show the
people of this country that every man be-
lieves in silver. Why didn’t they ten years
ago? Simply because silver has organized
itself into a political power that is all, and
today the man who has any political am-
bitions must be a firm advocate of silver or
else his political ambitions are dead. Every
time we have attempted to do anything or
to get anything or to get any law changed
to benefit the condition of women we have
always had to go to men. Why did it take
us women in Massachusetts three years to
get a bill passed which enabled a married
woman to own her own clothes. When a
woman is married does she not earn her
board and clothes and her husband must be
the judge of the kind of clothes she must
wear and after she has earned her own
clothes they don’t belong to her. She
thought she was wearing her own clothes
but she was not, she was wearing her
husband's clothes all the time. We never
did find out what the law was until we had
a lawsuit. A lady traveling over the
Boston and Albany Railway lost a trunk
full of clothes. She brought suit against
the company and the defense made by the
Railway Company was that she was a mar-
ried woman and consequently she could not
have lost any clothes because a married wo-
man’s wardrobe belongs to her husband.
	If it is true that a married woman does
not own her own clothes and it took us
three years to find it out in Massachusetts,
one half of the women in the United
States to day do not own their own clothes.
It took us just ten years to get a bill passed
to bury widows and during all that time we
went on burying widows just as we bury
widowers until a certain mother-in-law de-
cided the widow should never be buried be-
side her son, and the widow went on and
the mother-in-law served an injunction and
to the amazement of everybody no widow
had ever been legally buried in the State,
and no widow was entitled to be buried in a
family burying ground. A widow is en-
titled to a life interest in one third of a
cemetery lot and a life use of a cemetery
lot is of no especial use to anybody.
(Laughter.) We climbed up Beacon Hill
for ten consecutive years buttonholing the
members smiling and arguing and talking
by the yard to make those men see the rea-
sonableness of a widow to be buried until
she had the good sense to die. I never
knew before why the old cod-fish had been
suspended over the speaker’s desk—but in
the old room it hung suspended from the
dome. They put it up there so the women
would have something to look at. So for
ten years we sat up in the gallery gazing on
the big stuffed cod-fish and down on the
little stuffed cod fish below (laughter) and
finally when the bill was passed we began to
bury widows—of course we could not bury
them before, they all had to wait until the
bill was passed. It was not gallantry nor
courtesy nor chivalry that prompted them
to pass the bill, it was because we worried
the life out of them and that was the only
way they saw to get rid of us. So long as
he law regulates everything that touches
our lives why have we not the right to ex-
press our will and our wishes in regard to
the laws. So long as politics meddle with
us—so long as the law meddles with us so
long have we the right to meddle with it
(applause.) If you ask me why we wo-
men want the ballot I say because the bal-
lot is able to regulate and control things.

[Column 3]
The reason why I want the ballot is because
I am a human being—I have the right to
life a right to the pursuit of happiness and
the right to liberty and if I have a right to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness I
have a right to the power that protects my
life and protects me in the pursuit of hap-
piness and liberty in this country and that
power is the ballot and the ballot alone.
(Appluse.)
	Adjourned at 10-30 to meet at the As-
sembly Hall, Tuesday morning at 10
o’clock.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.
	THE high standard of Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp's School of Obstetrics is evidenced by
the large numbers that attend her classes, 
their superior attainments, and their suc-
cessful practical work throughout the state
of Utah and in adjacent states and territories.
The winter session is now near its close and
on April 21st begins the spring and summer 
session.
	Because of the growing demand for ef-
ficient nurses and competent accoucheurs
the doctor devotes more of her time to the
instruction of her pupils, at the same time
has made special prices to societies who
have interested themselves in this philan-
thropic work.
	Those desiring to take up this study
would do well to communicate with Dr.
Shipp at 18. Main St. Salt Lake City, either
personally or by letter.


MRS. BELLE ARMSTRONG WHITNEY has
taked entire editorial control of the Jenness-
Miller Monthly, from which Mrs. Miller
has retired.
	THE fifth annual Continental Congress of
the Daughters of the American Revolution
opened at Washington, D. C., Feb. 19.
The president general, Mrs. John W.
Foster, wife of the ex-Secretary of State,
reported that within six months, fifty-seven
societies had been organized, 4,700 applica-
tions for membership received, and 700 en-
rolled. The building of a continental
memorial hall in Washington was advocated.
Mrs. U. S. Grant was mentioned as one of
the new members. Mrs. Letitia Green
Stevenson, the wife of Vice-president
Stevenson, was elected president general.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
	WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 238, East, 4th South.
Telephone 383.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St..
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 24. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MARCH 15, AND APRIL 1, 1896. No. 20-21.


CONTENTS:
Adelsberg Cave—Kim. Reports From Grants-
ville—L. L. G. R. Almira Johnson Barton—E.
Crane Watson. Woman’s Sphere—Sarah B.
Layton. The California Campaign—Ellen C.
Sargent. Conference Notice—Wilford Woodruff.
Relief Society Conference—Zina D. H. Young.
Sericulture -- Margaret A. Caine. Our Character
—Zion’s Convert. State Suffrage Association—
Margaret A. Caine. The National Flag—Wilford
Woodruff. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia
D. Alder. Wedding Reception And Suffrage—
Julia Lyman. Resolutions. Agricultural College.
Snowflake Stake -- Della Fish Notes And News.
Janet Crystal Shelley—Com.  In Memoriam.
Conference N. A. W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Women In Public Affairs. Edi-
torial.
	POETRY:—Western Wilds—Emily H. Wood-
mansee. A Fragment—L. M. H. Lovingly In-
scribed To Josephine—L. D. A.


WESTERN WILD’S.

JUBILANT the song of progress!  That these
	western valleys sing;
Through the grand old mountain gorges clear
	triumphant echoes ring;
Mountain torrents swiftly leaping downward with
	resistless might,
Onward to the valley’s sweeping, shout, a chorus
	of delight;
Countless gushing, gurgling, streamlets, blend
	their harmonizing sound;
Caroling as if for gladness, while they scatter life
	around;
Fields of waving rip’ning cereals, answer to the
prayer oft said—
With such different depths of feeling, “give us
	Lord! our daily bread.” ’
Pastures green, and vine fill’d gardens, humming
	bees, and lowing kine,
Make this second land of Canaan, flow, with
	honey, milk, and wine;
Here and there in lovely lakelets sport and thrive
	the finny brood;
Furnishing fastidious fancies, with delicious,
	dainty food.
Marvels, ev’ry where surround’ us, gaze on yonder
	inland sea!
Broad expanse of liquid splendor, Utah’s crown-
	ing novelty!
Briny billows, flashing, foaming, with old ocean’s
	rise and swell
Into calmer moods subsiding, always weaving
	beauty’s spell;
Shining waves like glittering silver, mirror such
	resplendent skies—
Lo! The poet’s dreams elysian are reveal’d to
	wond’ring eyes
By the bracing mountain breezes, even sluggish
	souls are stirred;
Every where the hum of business, and of enter-
	prise is heard;
Lo! Where reigned primeval silence—desola-
	tion’s awful hush—
People thrive, and cities flourish, orchards bloom
	and roses blush;
Isolation’s veil is lifted, desolation’s day is o’er;
Western Wilds, so called for ages, are advancing
	to the fore.
Eastern empires will be waning, shaken by inter-
	nal jars,
While these “Western Wilds” will glitter in the
	galaxy of “Stars!”
Bright as orbs now at their zenith, that in glorious
	circuits run


Lo! The Western Constellation, shall be second
	unto none.
Hail! ye broad and fruitful valleys—in such robes
	of beauty drest;
Well the sunset’s golden glory typifies the gor-
	geous West;
Hail! unequalled Eldorado! region of surpassing
	worth;
Western Wilds, ye shall be noted, as the "Ophir”
	of the earth;
Freedom’s banner firmly planted, on the Western
	heights sublime—
Shall protect a prosp’rous people, gathered out
	of ev’ry clime.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


[Column 1]
ADELSBERG CAVE.
	TUESDAY, July 25th.—On leaving Vien-
na, we had a magnificent view of the city
and suburbs to the West—to the East—the
Leitha Mountains. Our route was south-
ward via of Semmering Pass to Adelsberg
and Triest. The day was perfect. We
passed through the Tyrolean and Slavonian
Alps—the scenery picturesque. All the 
way the road runs along abrupt precipices
over fifteen viaducts—the views, wild and 
grand until Semmering the summit of the
line.
	The train now makes a rapid descent,
passing through Gratz, Capitol of Styria, 
beautifully situated on the Mur, and is a 
favorite residence of retired officers of the
Austrian Army. From here the train runs 
through the valley of the Mur to Adels-
berg—A small town in the Duchy of
Carniola—renowned for its Stalactite Caves,
“Which may tempt the traveler to stop
over a train”
	This is an Alpine Village, the people do
not speak Russian. Swiss, French, Spanish
nor German, but a mixture of all Prof. was
the only one who could converse with
them. They seemed much amused to see 
so many ladies and so few gentlemen.
	The Grand Hotel stands upon a hill,
with a stream of water near and the scenery
most beautiful, on top of a mountain was a 
ruined castle—which makes and scene ro-
mantic. Early next morning a delightful
drive brought us to the cave—Prof. had
prepared for a grand illumination. Soon
after we entered we saw the mysterious
dark river Poibo (By some supposed to be
the river Wey) whose course can be traced
for miles occasionally appearing above
ground then disappearing until it is finally
lost sight of. The cave was illuminated with
two thousand burners and several 
magnesian lights, the tout ensemble pro-
ducing an effect I shall never forget. We 
walked for five miles through it, the Guide
called out the names of the chambers,
“Here is the Great Dome” or Neptune
Grotto—it is 70 ft high, 144 ft. wide with
most wonderful stalactite formations, we 
beheld a succession of columns and pillars
which seemed to support the roof. Yet all
nature’s work,all stalactites and stalagmites
forming themselves into curious solid masses
all deserving the names given them, such as
“The Waterfall,” “The Sleeping Maiden,”

[Column 2]
“The Palm," “The Lion.” “The Organ.”
“The Pulpit”—the stalactites from which
it was formed being most beautiful, one
piece, they claimed would be three million
four hundred thousand years forming, it
was splendid and clear and in the lights
was most beautiful, it is easy to estimate
the years forming, as it is from the drop-
ping of water impregnated with carbonate
of lime. We passed through chamber after
chamber each more beautiful than the last.
There was the ball room 150 ft. long, 9 ft.
wide and 50 ft. high. Each year on Whit-
Monday they give a ball and this vast hall
is lighted with many thousand lights, then
came Hall of Mt. Calvary, 180 ft. high
680 ft. wide and 642 ft. long, a rising slope 
full of stalagmites resembling, as one of
the party remarked, “So many tomb
stones" these columns, pillars and draperies
are of the purest whiteness, though some-
times assuming cream, crimson and rose 
tints, it was amusing to hear the comments,
as the fantastic figures, to each imagination
represented different objects. Much 
fatigued we returned to the Hotel for din-
ner, then off for Triest.
	A delightful journey of two hours skirt-
ing the shores of the Adriatic by the palace 
and gardens of Chiramar, the chateau of
Maximilian, it was here his body was
brought from Mexico. Triest is a large
Austrian seaport, the great emporium for
the triad of the Austrian Empire—by the
Adriatic—it is 72 miles from Venice, a 
most interesting place. Prof. gave us 
many bits of history. Madame Adelaide
Aunt of Louis XVI, of France, on the 19, 
Feb. 1791, with her Sister Victoria, fled
from the horrors of the revolution, sought
an asylum in Rome, Naples and other
places without success; at length arrived at
Corfu, where they obtained protection until
the Russian General Outschaord took them
to Triest where they remained. 
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamer across the Sea so we may have the
opportunity to see the beautiful approach to
Venice, the sea is calm and beautifully blue,
the moon shone clear and bright, many of
the young people will remain on deck all 
night, but the older members retired, we
were six in a room. I could look through
the port, and see the shimmering of the 
waves as the steamer dipped, could now and
then catch a peep at the moon. Mrs. Von
A-----said she cared not for the moon, she
felt nervous, as if her time had come, had
read in the Guide, a storm was sudden and
that beautiful placid water could boil and
lash and foam, demolishing things in a
frightful manner; however she soon felt
better and ere long we heard some one say
Venice—Oh! Oh! so we hurried up on deck
just before sunrise, presently the sun ap-
peared above the horizon and the city was
flecked with golden rays, the scene was en-
trancing; all my dreams of the Adriatic
Queen were realized. There are Gondolas
for the party with the stars and stripes on
each, the Gondolas are all black with elongat-
ed prows, like the neck of black swans, in a few
moments we were getting down into the
dark colored boats—we approach the mole,


pass the Piazza Lou Marco with its two sen-
tinel columns of red granite, its Palace of the
Doges and tall campanile, which we saw
from afar and soon we land at the door of
the Grand Hotel d’ltalie. My Gondola
was first to arrive, stepping from the boats
upon the marble floor of the hall I heard
my name called, was shown a room prepared
for breakfast, which was spread out on the
garden terrace  Breakfast in Venice—must
quote from Prof. Gastineau "Oh animal-
ism of our coarse human nature ever as-
serting itself over the finer essence of the
soul!”  We have at last touched the point
whereupon concentrated our most fanciful
dreams. We are in Venice—the ideal city,
the mysterious though palpable Mortar and
Stone Venice—rising resplendent with a
thousand charms from the amorous flood,
and we stop to think of breakfast before a
week has elapsed! Nay—we succumb to
materialism enough to desire breakfast on
the first morning of our arrival! It must
be admitted that a more delightful place
could scarcely be conceived to break a
night's fast through this terraced garden,
bound on one side by the river street,
overlooking the Grand Canal, with its
Gondolas crossing each other in every
direction, the sun bathes all in resplendent
light as we sit down to our places; a Gon-
dola loaded with musicians and singers ap-
proach and move at the steps. As the
sound of Italian instruments strike our ear,
it adds enchantment to the scene.”
After partaking of the refreshments in
shape of coffee, bread, beafsteak, cakes and
butter, we felt substantial and contented
that at least this day would be delightful.
At midnight throwing open the shutters of
my window and looking out upon the Alley
a (Collie) "there are two Venices, one of the
canals the other of the alleys, by which and
the 378 bridges you may walk over the
hundred isles, and thought of the events of
the day, and the magical evening, the
moonlight flooding the old Palaces and
Canals. We had spent the evening on the
Grand Platzza (or square) with the
thousands of gaily dressed people, flowers
and music, for the Queen Marguarette was
there—standing near the Palace. I heard
the shout Vive la Rein—looking up had a
splendid view of her leaning on the
balcony looking at her people. Now in the
moonlight and quiet it all seemed like a
beautiful dream realized.—KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REPORTS FROM GRANTSVILLE. 

	ON Thursday, March 12th 1896, the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake held its
Quarterly Conferencee in the Grantsville
Meeting House. Stake President, Mary A.
Hunter and First Counselor Rhoda Lyman
conducted the meetings which were held in
the forenoon and afternoon, and were spirit-
ed and instructive.  
	Because of ill health, Second Counselor
Ellen Anderson, was unable to attend the
meetings: but at her home were very cordi-
ally entertained Sisters Zina Y. Card and
Lula Greene Richards, missionaries from
Salt Lake City. Reports from the different
branches of the Society, the annual Stake
Reports, and minutes of the last Quarterly
Conference were read by Stake Secretary
Mary A. House, which together with a
concise verbal report given by President M.
A. Hunter showed the pleasing fact that
the Tooele Stake Relief Society is prosper-
ous and fululfilling, its legitimate require-

[Column 2]
ments. At the close of the Relief Society
Conference, Sister Card met with the offi-
cers of the Young Ladies Association, and
gave some important instructions.
	In the evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held
Conference. A newly organized Stake
Board took charge of this meeting, Sister
Ann Tate having lately resigned as Presi-
dent, Naomi Gillett having been elected to
that office with Sister Susannah Dunn and
Ellen Parks as Counselors. President
Gillett read a brief journalistic report of
the labors of herself and Counselors in visit-
ing and holding meetings with various
branches of the Association, since December
last. Verbal reports were also given by
presidents of branches; besides which a
choice program was rendered by members
of the Association.
	Primary Conference was held in the fore-
noon of Friday March 13, at which Stake
President Louisa O. Hale presided, assisted
by her Counselors M. T. Atkins, and Lou-
sa Fawson.
	The first, part of the meeting was devoted
to branch and Stake reports of a very satis-
factory nature. Then followed a program
the selections and rendition of which did
great credit to both officers and members.
	At each of the meetings mentioned above,
instructions and exhortations were offered
by the visiting sisters as well as by several
who are residents of the Stake. The inter-
est of the meetings was much enhanced by
the cheering presence and encouraging
words of Bishop Wrathall of Grantsville,
Stake Superintendent of Sunday Schools,
Gustave Johnson, and other leading breth-
ren.
	The Grantsville Choir also contributed
largely to the effectiveness of the Confer-
ence, by the rendering of delightful music
and singing.
	Friday evening an appropriate finis was
given to this enjoyable time of refreshing,
in the form of “An Old Fashioned Dance,"
the proceeds to be given to the poor. At
this party a goodly number of the ladies,
(and gentlemen as well,) were dressed in
old fashioned costumes of various styles.
Several of the girls had their hair done ac-
cording to old time custom, which to some
was very becoming. Plain quadrilles and
other old fashioned dances were the order
of the evening to some extent; and the old
time spirit of sociability made all feel at
home and happy.
	One feature of progress in Grantsville is
a neat adobie hall just being completed,
which, together with the lot upon which it
stands, belongs to the Relief Society. The
brethren have generously donated the entire
work of building and finishing the hall, the
Society furnishing the material only. In
this respect at least, there are other branches
which might pattern after Grantsville and
do well.
	A visit to the Grantsville Sunday School
was very gratifying. Marked improve- 
ments are taking place in that important
organization. In the Primary department
a subdivision is contemplated, wherein a 
Kindergarten is soon to be established. 
	L. L. G. R.


ALMIRA JOHNSON BARTON

Editor, Exponent:
	BELIEVING the short sketch I am now
penning, will be of interest to many, I send
the same to your paper for publication.
	Sister Almira Barton serenely passed


from this stage of action March 4th after
an illness of six days. Auntie Barton, as
she was familliarly called, was born Oct.
12th 1812, having reached the ripe old age
of 84 years, 4 months and 28 days. She
embraced the gospel in New York State, in
an early day. Afterwards she became a
plural wife to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
After his death she married Joseph Barton,
by whom she had five children; two died
before she reached Utah about 1858. When
she reached Parowan about 1865, another
of her little flock was called home leaving
her with two daughters, her husband did
not come with her to the valley. One of
these girls was unusually bright and pre-
possessing, and when just on the verge of
marriage Della, her mother’s favorite com-
panion and comfort, was called to join her
brothers and sisters who had gone before.
	Sister Barton’s grief was almost uncontroll-
able, for she was worse than alone as the
remaining child caused more care and anxiety
than an ordinary family who had their
reasoning faculties, but a more patient and
devoted mother never was; never complain-
ing but ever guiding and guarding her
blank-minded girl with a more than jealous
care, constantly praying that she might out-
live her child, dreading the idea of having
her sent to an asylum. Not quite two
years have waned since Almira was restored
to her mother’s little circle all now having
gone to that “Beautiful Beyond.’’ On this
occassion Auntie Barton exclaimed “Thank
God my prayers have been answered, I am
now willing to go when Father wants me.’’
Since living in Parowan Sister Barton has
never had to wonder where would her food
come from on the morrow, she has been
comfortably taken care of by the church,
and for several years has had help to do her
house work and keep her company. She
had quite a circle of elderly lady friends,
whom our bishop always told her to invite
as often as she chose and he would see that
she had the necessaries to entertain them,
she was naturally very cheerful and seemed
to enjoy life very much. She was prepar-
ing to go to the St. George Temple to work
when she was suddenly stricken with a
paralytic stroke which resulted in her death.
	She was beautifully laid away in the best
material that could be procured. Among
the speakers at the funeral services was
Aunt Paulina Lyman who had been inti-
mately acquainted with the deceased since
1841. The closing sentiments of one of the
speakers was. “May we all be as well pre-
pared to go home as was Aunt Almira
Barton,” to which many hearts responded.
Amen. 
	E. CRANE WATSON.
Parowan, March 11th 1896.


LOMDON, March 23.—Thomas Hughes,
Q. C., author of  “Tom Brown’s School
Days,” “Tom Brown at Oxford,” and the
founder of the British settlement Rugby, 
Tenn., is dead, aged 73.
	ONE of the more noteworthy articles in
the March Harper's will be “Arcadian Bee-
Ranching,” by Miss Ninetta Eames; “Jane
Hubb’s Salvation,” by Mrs. Helen Hunt-
ington, together with installments of the
serials, “On Snow-Shoes to the Barren
Grounds,” “Briseis,” “Personal Recol-
lections of Joan of Arc,” aud the “Ger-
man Struggle for Liberty.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FRAGMENT.

I SCORN the wretch who’ll sit with coward smile,
And list to falsehood of the loved and absent:
Few are the gems that have not e’en a flaw, 
And spots obscure the glory of the sun:
We are but mortal, and the best may hope 
Heaven can add lustre to their budding virtues—
I ask not for perfection in my friends, 
But perfect love and truth! With these I feel
Earth is not beggared of her earthly charms, 
Nor life all weariness; nor mankind
Made up of selfishness, and hate and sense
That death is not so sad if I can wave
A fond adieu to eyes that weeping say
Dearest and best of friends, may perfect bliss be
	thine.
My friend may wear upon his name some scars,
He found in battle with a world of sin,
And his great mind may harbor some delusions
Speech at times lack dignity, but to me
He is all gentleness, and truth and honor;
Quick to avenge a wrong my being feels;
Joyous in happy hours, in sickness kind,
Tender as loving mother’s softest touch,
Gifted with noble thoughts above the ken
Of the vile mass, echoes in many forms;
I would defend my friend ’gainst the leagued
	world!
The meanest thing that crawls upon this earth,
Is gold refined to foulest, poorest dross,
When matched with that intelligence that owes
God-given gratitude to faithful friend,
And pays it with black treason.
	L.M.H.


LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO JOSEPHINE.

[On her 21st Birthday, Jan. 18th. 1895.]
COME, Josephine, rejoice tonight,
And let thy heart be gay and light,
Sweet youth’s around thy pathway yet.
Thy brow, with wisdom’s crown is set.
The Book of Life’s just opening now,
And o’er its page you restless bow; 
O, may you read the written word,
"Josephine, beloved of the Lord.”
As each strange page you eager scan,  
May God to you unfold his plan;
His light shine out upon the way,
And turn your heart, to him alway. 
"Josephine" name glorious made in storied past,
Napoleon’s love unto the last;
Around her name sweet memories cling,
And incense rare, the ages bring.
For her his fervent thought is seen,
His cry “My Josephine, my Josephine.”
His star of Empire set the day,
He cast fair Josephine away.
I pray your life, my Josephine,
May sunshine be, all storms between;
For in your youth you chose the way
That leads to realms of endless day.
Thy life sweet fragrance breathes around,
Thy heart with loving thoughts abound; 
List now, the Angel’s voice in prayer
To Heaven ascends, thy name is there.
And when the sands of life run low,
When the crimson West is all aglow,
With loved ones holding each dear hand
May you safely reach the “Better Land.”
L.D.A.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S SPHERE.

	IT is often expressed by many of the 
ladies, of our fair Utah, if they could only
have the privilege of going to the polls and
casting their vote, they would show to man 

[Column 2]
kind at large that they would be able to
bring about a better state of affairs. I often
ask myself the question. Is going to the
polls all that is needed to bring this about?
And the thought comes to me that home
and self is the place to prepare ourselves to
bring a change for the better. It must be
brought about in our every day life, at our
own fireside. In our daily walk and con-
versation, and in setting a good example
before our children, and before all the
world. The eyes of the world are upon us
and if we want our condition bettered, we
must seek for wisdom and intelligence from
a pure source. If we wish to be truly
great, we must deny ourselves of the many
weak points that are so closely connected
and interwoven in our very natures. I be-
lieve of all people in the world the women
of Utah have the best opportunity of un-
derstanding what is wanted to bring about
a better state of affairs. If they will only
go the right way to obtain it, it will never
come by indulging in light and foolish con-
versation, or in loose habits. I believe
woman was created for a far nobler purpose
and loftier sphere than what she really is
today? But it can only be reached step by
step. By abstaining from everything that
is low and unlike a true and virtuous wo-
man. They are endowed by nature with
intelligence, and we can choose for our-
selves which course we will pursue. The
way is marked so plain that no one can be
mistaken. We must shun everything that
is evil. Commence by first watching our-
selves, if we want our husbands to be bet-
ter men set them the example. From the
beginning Woman has taken the lead.
	Let Woman’s grace and love combine
	To shed a luster o’er mankind,
	And kindle fires to ever burn,
	In every heart the truth to learn.
	She led the way for man to go,
	That good and evil he might know;
	By which like God he might become, 
	And live again with him at home.
	Woman may well be proud today of the 
part she acted in the beginning of her
existence. She played well her part to the
end, that man might be, and have a true
knowledge of God; so today woman must
set the example. And with few exceptions
man will follow her to a higher plane. In
my opinion man and woman must rise to-
gether. One cannot attain to anything
that is great and good without the other. I
am myself a woman; but I can never get
one step above man. I have seen women
who think they are better and know more
than their husbands and often try to make
them appear small before company,  I
always feel that it makes no difference
what our cailing or place is, if we fill that
place honorably. But when we step over
the mark we commit an error. And we
should stop right there and correct our-
selves before we go any farther. If we un-
derstood ourselves as it is our privilege to
do, we would not make so many mistakes.
And we must correct those errors in our-
selves before we undertake to teach others.
	If we ever expect to rule or govern we
must first learn to rule and govern, our-
selves, right here is work for us all if we
will but do it. Now if we will stndy for 
ourselves, and find out what is lacking,
then go to work and do it, that will bring
about a far better state of things. We will
make better wives and have kinder children.
We are told that man is the noblest work of

[Column 3]
God, if so, woman must be for she is a part
of man. Sisters, seek to live lives of
purity and virtue, that you may be useful
at home, ornaments in society and a benefit
to the human race. That will bring about
a better state of affairs. 
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
Kaysville, Feb. 21st, 1896.


THE CALIFORNIA CAMPAIGN.
	AT the general election next November,
the men of California will have the oppor-
tunity to vote upon an Amendment to the
State Constitution, which, if carried, will
give suffrage to the women on equal terms
with the men. The resolution to submit
this amendment to the voters was passed by
both Houses of the Legislature in March,
1895, and signed by the Governor. 
	A joint Campaign Committee composed
of the officers of the State Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Amendment Campaign As-
sociation, are turning all their energies to
the end that the Golden State may emerge
from that election a republic in fact as well
as in name. Committees for local and
State Press Work, Conventions, Petitions,
Finance, etc., are being formed, and the
work goes merrily on. The hearty respons-
es from the various counties to all the plans
of work launched by the Joint Campaign
Committee are so enthusiastic, and the
sympathies so manifestly enlisted in all
parts of the State, that all the Committee
feel very much encouraged.
	Under Dr. Elizabeth Sargent the petition
work is being pushed all over the State,
some four hundred books being in circula-
tion. She is also in charge of the literary
committee, and under her compilation a
newleaflet, ‘‘Woman Suffrage in Practice,”
has just been published and promises to do
a great work of enlightenment regarding
the actual workings of woman suffrage. 
	Lucy E. Anthony has been appointed
chairman of the Committee on Conventions.
The series of county conventions is to open
in the southern part of the State at San
Diego, April 6 and 7. Each is to hold dur-
ing two days, and a second one will open
simultaneously with the closing date of the
first in an adjoining county seat, with a
second manager, and with other speakers.
Miss Mary Hay and Harriet May Mills are to
be the managers, and Rev. Anna Shaw and
Elizabeth U. Yates the speakers. They
will gradually migrate toward the north
and middle of the State, arriving in the
vicinity of San Francisco about May, when
the great Woman's Congress of the Pacific
Slope will convene and discuss for one
week, three sessions daily, seventy address-
es in all, “Woman in Government,” in all
its bearings. This subject was chosen on
account of the growing interest manifested
in it by both men and women. As the
question of woman’s enfranchisement will
come before the voters at the November
election, and California will be called upon
to decide whether women shall share in the
rights and duties of government, there will
be a full exposition of the subject in all its
phases.
	Susan B. Anthony and Rev. Anna H.
Shaw our president and vice-president-at-
large, will both take part, the former
speaking on “Analysis of Government,”
and Rev. Anna Shaw on “Woman as She
is Said to Be and Woman as She Is.
	ELLEN C. SARGENT,
President California W. S. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made tor clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
[-]econdclass matter

SALT LAKE CITY  MARCH 15, AND APRIL, 1, 1896.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-sixth Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints will convene in the Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, at 10 o’clock on Saturday
morning, April 4th, 1896.
	The officers and members of the Church
genarally are cordially invited to attend
the meetings of the Conference.
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEORGR Q. CANNON,
	JOSEPH F. SMITH.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
this city on Friday, April 3, 1896, meetings
commencing at 10 a. m. 2 p. m. and 7;30
in the evening
	It is desirable that each Stake organiza-
tion of the Relief Society should be well
represented. Bishops and brethren are 
cordially invited to attend the meetings.
	ZINA D. H YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors’


[Column 1]

WOMEN IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS.

	THE Legislature has been fairly getting
down to work during the latter part of the
session and as the time draws near the close,
it is very apparent extra exertion is made
to complete the business, of these law
makers. We are very glad to be able to
say too that women have manifested more
real interest in legislative matters than at
first. It is true there is not much women
can do except in going before Committees,
but they can learn by listening, and observ-
ing how large bodies of men conduct their
affairs and not be entirely ignorant of the
rules and regulations of great assemblies,
should they be elected to fill some of these
official positions, when another legislature is
chosen, as they most likely will be; at least
it is in all events probable, that when the
members of the next legislature are nomi-
nated, women being eligible, some women
will doubtless receive nominations and if
so—the chances are will be elected.
	A great deal is or seems to be expected of
women‘when they have the franchise; and
yet there cannot be any very great change
at first, except the novelty of the fact.

[Column 2]
	There may not be quite so much smoke
in the public buildings but there will pos-
sibly be some little fire; and it is desirable
that some places should be cleaner and the
atmosphere purer in more ways than one.
The fact that women have the ballot can-
not make much difference with the affairs of
the State at first, but their influence ought
to be felt very soon and very materially in
the cities and towns. The recent move
made in Provo, in shutting up the Diamond
saloon, by the leading women who have
had practical experience in organized work
among their own sex, is a good illustration
of what women can accomplish when they
set about it in earnest, and the example of
the women of Provo ought to be followed
by other women in the cities and towns
where like evils exist,and are maintained to
the detriment of the community and es-
pecially the young and rising generation
and to the disgrace of all who desire to pro
mote good morals and the elevation of
society.
	Surely all good women will take these
matters seriously to heart and ponder them
just long enough to see the best way to ap-
ply a remedy, before the condition becomes
much more dangerous than it is at present.
The mothers will see these things quicker
than even the fathers, who have so far been
the guardians of the public welfare. Gen-
erally speaking women have quicker per-
ception, and a high moral sentiment pre-
dominates largely with them which will be
a good element to infuse into governmental
affairs.
	The experience of women who have been
interested in some of the bills pending be-
fore the Legislature, has been quite satis-
factory; members have been exceedingly
courteous in allowing them time before the
respective committees that have such bills
in charge, and of course the ladies appreci-
ate the spirit of fairness with which their
views have been considered. Women are
and necessarily must be greatly interested
in all educational matters, in all industrial
and reformatory work. It should not be
forgotton by those who have the selection
of persons to serve on all such Boards that
women should be included when these ap-
pointments are made, for all these classes of
work viz., educational, industrial, and re-
formatory.
	In England where the prevailing public
sentiment is not in favor of women’s work,
women have shown themselves very
efficient in places where men made no im-
pression at all upon the classes of people
who are a public expense. Their ways of
dealing with subjects are different and their
methods usually are more kindly and hu-
mane. These are a few of the things wo-
men should think about, and when they
think deeply they will be prepared to act,
and do their part of the humanitarian work
which comes into the provence of the state.
	The women of Utah are being watched
as no other women are at the present time,
and it should be their laudable ambition to
set an example even in political affairs, that
other states can point to with pride, and
seek to emulate.Women must not forget
there are duties and obligations attached to
citizenship, that they cannot afford to ig-
nore or to neglect.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is expected that at the Suffrage meet-
ing which will be held sometime during


Conference, there will be some interesting
talks by Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs.
Sarah A. Boyer, who attended the Wash.
ington Convention last winter; also by
other women who have been invited to
speak, among them Mrs H. C. Lewis of
Montana who is a noted lecturer and Lucy
A. Clark of Farmington Electa Bullock of
Provo, and Mrs.Wm. Stewart of this City
have been invited to make addresses, also
Mrs. E. Crane Watson of Parowan.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store situated
on Main St. No. 44, is in the sense its
name implies a woman’s enterprise, incor-
porated and carried on in the interest of the
women connected with the Relief Society
organization, it has had a hard struggle in
the past but the prospect at present is more
hopeful. Having succeeded in getting a
suitable location on the Main Street where
it is more convenient, and having some
special articles not handled by large es-
tablishments. Burial clothing for the
dead is made a specialty, millinery and
boys clothes etc. There will be an opening
of Millinery goods Wednesday and Thurs-
day, April 1st and 2nd, to which the public
are cordially invited. New goods and
latest styles, prices reasonable. Remember
the Woman’s Co-op, 44 Main Street.


SERICULTURE.

	IN view of the work we expect to ac-
complish during the coming year in estab-
lishing the silk industry in the State;
arrangements will be made for holding a
meeting of the ‘‘Utah Woman’s Silk As-
sociation during the conference rates, the
time and place will be published in the daily
papers.
MARGARET A. CAINE, Secretary.


OUR CHARACTER.

	ALLOW me to ask, is it true that our
character is the only thing or qualification
we take with us when we go to the next
state of existence; for we must go when
called either sooner or later, and then give
an account of what we have been doing and
what lessons we have learned in the lower
world. Again allow me to ask, what sort
of a character did our Father expect us to
obtain in such a world as this; a world of
disappointment, trials and perplexities of
every kind. Well let us reflect; it must be
for some wise purpose, for all things done
by our heavenly parent are done in wisdom
to prepare us for some other great event.
You will admit that some of our lessons
we learn from observation. This being the
case let us just notice the little one who is
taking his first lesson. His wants are
supplied when they are made known, and
sometimes it requires patience and fortitude
to wait for the care of the parent; and at
other times energy and force of character
are in need to save him when in danger;
and again caution and care, for we are told
that fire and water are good servants but
bad masters; then to be victorious we need
caution and care to become acquainted or
master of the elements. This is a very im-
portant lesson. So become acquainted
with each; both fire and water.
	Thus in childhood we begin to develop
the attributes of God our Father when we
obtain intelligence upon subjects of this
kind. But remember this is only a few of
the many qualities called into action as we


[Column 1]
advance in years, and in many instances it
affords us pleasure to learn the lessons,
especially when we are successful. In this
way are we not forming a character by lov-
ing intelligence on those subjects? We feel
it to be an enjoyment when our path, is
smooth aud no disappointment or vexation.
Yet we are not tested until we meet the
opposite; then the question arises, shall we
become despondent and discouraged because
our foot slipped and we had a fall, or shall
we have courage and try again. This will
try our energy and force of character in one
instance, and perhaps in another it may re-
quire patience aud fortitude until the storm
is passed, always hopeful in as much as we
can see that things might have been worse.
A feeling of thankfulness should be ours,
with courage to try again.
We find when contemplating the sub-
ject that we begin to form our character in
our youth, which, by proper care and
attention, we greatly enjoy for I believe the
human family are all lovers of intelligence,
and when governed by pure principles al-
ways, the result is true happiness. Yet
there is an opposite to show the contrast.
This seems neccesary that the good may be
properly appreciated.
But when the bad qualities predominate,
then we feel the need of a captain at the
helm to guide the ship, (if I may use that
term) to take us safely into port or our
heaven of rest. Now I would ask did not
our Father foresee this when he sent His
Son to earth to teach us this all important
lesson?
	Do you ask where this lesson is to form
our, character by? I will answer in the
5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of St. Mathews
called Christ’s sermon on the mount. Not,
only there but also in the Epistles of St.
Peter, St. James and St. John, besides those
of St. Paul.
	We find when we observe and practice
the lessons given by these ancient worthies,
our minds are enlightened by that good spirit
which our Savior promises to all who ob-
serve and obey the laws He gave; for he
said “In vain ye cry unto me Lord Lord
and do not the things that I say,”
	By observing these laws we become ac-
quainted with His character, and will feel
at home in His presence when He comes in
the clouds of heaven. My body, no doubt,
will be mouldering back to dust, but my
spirit will not be there. Ah no! St Paul
tells us “That which thou sowest is not
quickened except it die.” We know while
the wheat is in the ground a sprout shoots
up bearing more grain than the seed in the
ground. St. Peter in the 30th chapter, 17th
verse, says “Jesus was put to death in the
flesh, but quickened by the spirit by which
he went and preached to those who died
in the flood.” By this we see this quick-
ening power is felt in all humanity as well
as in vegetation. What a grand idea to
think of!
	This lesson was taught to St. Peter by
our Savior after His resurrection from the
dead, as you will read in his first Epistle
1st chapter 30th verse “According to His
abundant mercy He hath begotten us again
unto a lively hope by the resurrection of
Jesus Christ from the dead.” And in the
4th verse he says, ‘‘To an inheritance in-
corruptible, undefiled and that fadeth not
away reserved in heaven for you.” In
this chapter we learn how lively a hope he
has after seeing Jesus in his resurrected
form, and are told by him where he was

[Column 2]
and what he was doing the three days his-
body was in the tomb.
	The instruction given in this chapter is
very interesting and encouraging. In the
5th verse he speaks of the power of God un-
to salvation through faith ; and again in
the 7th verse he says “The trial of your
faith being much more precious than gold,
that perisheth not though it be tried by fire.”
And again in the 13th verse he says, “Gird
the loins of your mind, be sober and hope
to the end for the grace that is to be brought
you by the revelation of Jesus Christ,
as obedient children etc.
	He thus encourages love, saying in the
22nd verse “Seeing ye have purified your
souls in obeying the truth through the
spirit, with unfeigned love for the brethren
see that ye love one another with a pure
heart fervently etc.”
	The Apostle James speaks of love, pure
love etc. Not only so but only think in
the 1st chapter 2nd verse he says “My
brethren count it all joy when you fall into
divers temptations, knowing this, that the
trying of your faith worketh patience. But
let patience have her perfect work, that ye
may be perfect, wanting nothing.”
	Then speaks of wisdom saying “If one
of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God
who giveth to all men liberally and up-
braideth not, and it shall be given him.’
This, you remember, Joseph Smith our
Prophet read and resolved to follow; and
behold the consequence which followed,
while at prayer making his request of God.
But please read the 6th and 7th verses
which say “Let him ask in faith nothing
wavering; for he that wavereth is like a
wave of the sea, driven by the wind and
tossed.” He also says that a double
minded man is unstable in all his ways.
Now let us reflect. Can We observe all
these rules or laws, as you may choose to
call them. If we can do that, will we not
obtain a character we could not get without
this experience? But this problem is to
solve. Can we do it as it is here given?
I firmly believe that with the spirit our
Father gives to those who love Him, we
can do it: without it we could not. Let us
then try to be fit temples for the good spirit
to dwell in, nothing doubting, that His
Spirit will help us to do all that is necessary
to be done, is the faith of,
	ZIONS CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STATE SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	A MEETING of the State Suffrage As-
sociation will be held during the Conference
rates, the time and the place will be given
hereafter. Mrs. Richards and Boyer will
give reports of their attendance at the Na-
tional Convention, and addresses will be
given by some of the leading Suffragists of
the State.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, SEC.


[Column 1]

THE NATION’S FLAG.

FORTY-FIFTH STAR INCLUDED.
	WE take pleasure in publishing the fol-
lowing letters which will be of interest to
our readers and should be a matter of re-
cord; they were first published in the
Deseret Evening News of March 19, 1896.
	UNITED STATES SENATE,
	Washington, D. C.,
	February 25, 1896.
Venerable Sir:
To you whose life has spanned the entire

[Column 2]
history of Utah’s settlement and growth, to
this hour to you the chief representative of
her Pioneers; and to you whose hand first
raised the emblem of our sublime country
in the Salt Lake valley, I have the honor
of transmitting, by the kindness of Hon.
Joseph F. Smith, one of the two first flags
made for the War Department of the United
States, containing forty-five stars. With
all who know you, I am thankful that you
have been permitted to see the day of
Utah’s glory, that your hands can touch
and your eyes behold the beauty of this en-
sign as it now recognizes the wondrous
achievement of a devoted people, blessed by
God and animated by patriotism, in their
struggles to make of a wilderness one of
the mightiest states of the Union.
Yours affectionately, 
	FRANK J. CANNON. 
	PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF, 
	Salt Lake City, Utah.  
	Following is President Woodruff’s re-
sponse:
	Hon. Frank J. Cannon, U. S. Senate.
Washington City D. C.:
	My dear Senator.—As a Pioneer who
brought President Young in my carriage
into the Great Salt Lake Valley the first
time he saw the Salt Lake and surrounding
country; and as one who assisted in plant-
ing the American flag on this then Mexican
soil, and who assisted President Young in
laying out Salt Lake City, with its broad
streets and sidewalks in this Great Ameri-
can dry, sandy desert, and being in my
ninetieth year of age, I accept this noble flag
for and in behalf of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (being President
of the same;) also in behalf of every citizen
of the State of Utah. The flag has been
spread to the breeze of both sea and land
for over 120 years, over the greatest free
Republican government ever established by
the God of heaven since the creation of the
world, which flag I hope the citizens of
Utah will ever maintain and make honor-
able. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when this noble flag is hoisted
as an emblem and ensign to all the inhabit-
ants of Utah in the capacity of a State
government. Forty-nine years of my life
have been spent in Utah.
	Yours truly,
	WILFORD WOODRUFF. 
	The foregoing letters have been withheld
for some time because of an intimation that
the design upon which the two flags referred
to had been made might again be changed
—several propositions to that effect having
been submitted to the government authori-
ties. As stated, however, the arrangement
agreed upon has been officially confirmed.
The other flag referred to by Senator Can-
non as one of the two first made with the
Utah star, is the property of Governor H.
M. Wells.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, Feb. 8, 1896, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, "O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet.” Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. President
Horne,‘‘I hope the Spirit will prompt you
to speak one after another,” Said she had


[Column 1]
thought during the last week, that the sis-
ters should humble themselves and pray for
our young people. We want every en-
nobling virtue taught here in Zion. Urged
the sisters to visit the Legislature, and show
them that we appreciate their labors in our
behalf. “I have been astonished to hear
such falsehoods as have been set afloat.
Judging each other, and many other things.
Have we any right to judge each other?
Did not the Savior say, ‘Judge not that ye
be riot judged?’’ Spoke of her recent
Patriarchal blessing, in which she said, she
was told that the Erring One would hurl
his shaft at her.Which had surely come to
pass. Prayed that the Spirit might rest in
great power on the sisters.
	Sister Barnes bore her testimony and
made a few remarks, also said “I always
thought the Lord chastised those whom he
loved. I often wonder why I had to bear
so much,” but felt assured that the Lord
loved her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, said the time
was so precious. The counsel of Sister
Horne was good. “I pray God to hasten
the day when righteousness will prevail
over all the earth. Our children are too
much indulged; let us be honest and truthful.
Let us examine our own souls, and see if
we speak against the Lord’s anointed.
Who are the Lord’s anointed? It is not
only the Priesthood but every one who has
been anointed.”
	A sister in the congregation said her hus-
band was on a mission and she must be
careful, she felt to stand firm to conviction.
She knew the Gospel was true. Prayed for
strength to stand fast in the same.
	Sister Hanhah Conklin bore her testimony,
and spoke of the healing power that is
among us.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of some
bills before the Legislature, and their inter-
est in the cause of women. “There is a bill
before that body now which will effect our
silk interest, and I hope some of the sisters
will make it a business to attend some of
the sessions.”
	Sister Rollinson, spoke of being healed
by the power of God.
	Counselor Clara Cannon, glad to hear the
good instructions given here to day by the
many testimonies that are given, we can
see that the power of God is with us as
much as ever it was. Spoke of her little
daughter being healed. “It is necessary to
teach our children faith, I feel strengthened
by the testimonies borne. Let us cultivate
the spiritual gifts more.”
	Sister J. C. Howe. Teach the children
to be obedient, and that they must make
sacrifices. Our Savior taught his disciples,
and told them to teach the multitude, how
they must pray continually to escape Satan.
Let us sustain and build up the church and
kingdom of God I want to encourage the
sisters to bear testimony. Spoke of a man
who had passed from earth, who was
not among the saints, but among the hon-
orable men of the earth. Spoke of those
who died without the Gospel and were
among the honorable men of the earth.
Sister Lawson spoke of prayer, as mani-
fested in her own home, and acknowledged
the goodness of God to her. Several other
sisters bore testimony to the healing power
in the church and related experiences.
	Sister Sarah Phelps always felt glad to
bear testimony of the truth of this work.
Spoke of a dream she had concerning an
angel passing through the streets of this

[Column 2]
city, who said that he took notes and knew
each family.
	President Horne made closing remarks
Meeting adjournd for two weeks. Sing
ing Doxology. Benediction Lydia D.
Alder.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING RECEPTION AND
SUFFRAGE.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Suffrage Society of this place is still
in a flourishing condition, most interesting
and instructive meetings being held month-
ly which are well attended, and now that
the main object in the organization of the
society has been obtained, the officers ex-
pect to map out a systematic educational
course to be pursued the following year.
	A Grand Wedding reception was given
under the auspices of the society on the
22nd ult., the honored parties being Joseph
F. McGregor and Isabella Durham, both
members of the society, who were married
at Manti on the 14 ult.The Seminary
Rooms were procured and decorated in
yellow and white, the decorations being
most artistic aiid tasteful. Bunting, appro-
priate mottoes and pictures covered the
walls. One large motto painted especially
for the occasion on yellow cloth, bore the
inscription, “Joy and Peace” while in the
center was a large bell representing the
wedding bell. Under this motto were
arranged seats for the bride and groom and
their parents. At the appointed hour, the
people having assembled in the north-east
rooms, the bride and groom introduced each
one separately into the south room, con-
gratulations and blessings being showered
upon the young couple in the mean time.
	An orchestra discoursed sweet music all
this time which added to the pleasure of the
occasion, and after all were comfortably
seated a very interesting program was
carried out, consisting of songs instrument-
al music, speeches sentiments etc. The roll
of the society was called, the majority re-
sponding with appropriate and well chosen
sentiments. At the close of these exercises
a delicious repast served in yellow and
white was partaken of, and apparently en-
joyed by all. The reception was a grand
success from beginning to end, for which
much credit is due to our worthy president
Mrs. E. Crane Watson, who with her aids
spared no means nor labor to make the
affair a success. A party was given in the
evening and thus closed a day long to be
remembered by our society. The groom
Joseph F. McGregor, starts for the South-
ern States next month, there to perform a
mission. We all wish him ‘‘God Speed.”
JULIA LYMAN.
Parowan March, 14, 1896.


RESOLUTIONS.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association, in Annual Convention assem-
bled, hereby declares and affirms:
	1.	That we demand suffrage for all
citizens of the United States, women and
men, upon reasonable conditions attainable
by all, as a right and not a privilege, under
a government professedly based upon the
consent of the governed.
	2.	That we rejoice in the admission of
Utah as a third woman suffrage State.

[Column 2]
	3.	That organization is the watchword
of the hour and our primary object: that
special attention should be given during
the coming year to the Territories of Arizona
Oklahoma and New Mexico before their
admission to statehood; and that we will
co-operate in support of the constitutional
amendments now pending in Idaho, Cali-
fornia and Nevada.
	4.	Thus we petition Congress and
Legislatures to secure to the women of this
Nation by every form of appropriate legis-
lation the full rights of citizenship guaran-
teed them under the U. S. Constitution.
	5.	That we hereby pledge to the women
of the District of Columbia our hearty sup-
port in their efforts to represent and protect
their own interests by the ballot.
	6.	That we congratulate the women of
Kentucky upon having recently secured the
election of four women and four men upon
the municipal board of education in the
city of Lexington.
	7.	That we seek the co-operation of all
organizations of men and women for the
promotion of political equality irrespective
of sex.
	8.	That this Association is non-sectarian,
being composed of persons of all shades of
religious opinions, and that it has no official
connection with the so-called “Woman’s
Bible,” or any theological publication.
	That we commend the actions of the Na-
tional Purity Association in endeavoring to
secure better protection for the youth of
our land.
	11.	That we demand State and National
legislation that mothers shall have equal
custody and control with fathers over their
minor children.
	13.	That the frightful massacre perpe-
trated by the authorities of Turkey upon
their unarmed and defenseless Armenian
subjects, and the systematic policy of ex-
termination of Christians throughout Asia-
Minor, calls for the intervention of united
Christendom, and we appeal to Congress to
take prompt and effective measures for stop-
ping these intolerable barbarities.
	14.—That we heartily sympathize with
the men and women of Cuba in their strug-
gle for independence, and with all oppressed
peoples who are trying to secure political
self-government.
	15.	That we request the Executive
Committee to petition the City Council of
Philadelphia to assign to the National
American and Pennsylvania and Phila-
delphia Woman Suffrage Association the
use of a room in old Independence Hall, on
the ground that we are seeking to carry out
the principles for which our fathers and
mothers suffered and died.
16.	That a page of the forthcoming re-
port of this annual meeting be specially de-
voted to memorial tablets of illustrious
members who have passed away during the
year 1895.
	17.	That we thank the newspapers of
Washington and of the country for the
space devoted to the proceedings of this
Convention.


MRS. A. C. RAYMOND has been elected
Town Clerk of Stowe, Vt.
	THE Woman’s Club of Omaha. Neb., 
will get out the Easter edition of the Omaha
Enterprise.
	FRANCE has just passed a married wo-
men’s property bill, giving wives a right to
their own earnings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.

	PRESS BULLETIN.
	WE have received from the Agricultual
College of Utah the Fourth Biennial Re-
port of the Board of Trustees to the Legis-
lative Assembly, and the Sixth Annual Re-
port of the Experiment Station.
	The Report gives an explicit statement of
tlie financial resources of the College, and
the relations of the national government
and of the State of Utah to the institution.
The function of the land-grant colleges is
plainly set forth, together with a summary
of the courses offered and the methods of
instruction pursued at the College.
	The book is beautifully illustrated with
half-tone engravings of the different build-
ings and rooms, and contains reproductions
of the pen drawings of students, showing
the regular work of the class room. The
pamphlet is an excellent souvenir to send to
your friends. It exhibits in a brief and
striking manner, the advantages of higher
and practical training—offered free in the
College to all qualified applicants.
	By sending a written request to the
Agricultural College, Logan, Utah, a copy
of the Report will be mailed to any address.


SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

Editor Exponent:
	PERHAPS you will be interested in the
change recently made in our Stake officers.
Sister Ruth Hatch, second counselor to
Sister Smith, has been residing in Utah
for some time, and has been uncertain about
her return, so she sent in her resignation at
our conference, Nov. 21, 1895. Sister
Mary J. West was chosen to fill her place,
and was sustained at the conference.
	During the past year Sister Smith and
her counselors have visited all the branches
of the Relief Society in the Stake. They
are doing well under the circumstances
Our faith and prayers are freely given in
behalf of those who stand at the head of the
Relief Society, and we try to be in readiness
to aid in any way we can.
	That the peace and blessing of the Lord
may attend you is the sincere desire of
your sister in the gospel.
DELLA FISH.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The New England Woman’s Press As-
sociation gave a charming reception to Mrs.
Harriet Prescott Spofford, at the Parker
House, Boston, on Thursday, March 12,
from 4 to 6 P. M. It was a very interest-
ing occasion,
	FROKEN MARIA FOLKESON. who is the
daughter of a Swedish M. P. and who
held the degree of candidate of medicine,
the other day took her degree as licentiate
of medicine at the Caroline Institute,
Stockholm. She is said to be the third
woman doctor in Sweden.
	The next public meeting of the Massa-
chusetts federation will be held in Water-
town on April 8, by invitation of the
Watertown Women’s Club. The subject
will be "Women in Business life," Miss
Abby J. McCutcheon, president of the
Norumbega Club of Charlestown, is chair-
man of the committee of arangements.
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson will present the
[-]ims and objects of the Woman's Business


League, and a woman physician and a wo-
man lawyer will present the case from their
points of view. Mrs. Sally Joy White will
speak upon “A Question in Economics,”
and Mrs. Elizabeth M. Gosse
on “Stumb-ling Blocks.” There will also be a paper
upon “The Independent Purse.,’ At the
last meeting of the Federation, held in
Chelsea, one thousand women were present
	IN 1818 was born on a little Island to the 
south east of Massachusetts, Maria Mitchell,
whose name stands at the head of the list
of American women in the world of Science.
At the age of sixteen she became the pupil
of her father who was regarded as an
astronomer of considerable merit; he built
an observatory on the Island (Nantucket)
and it was here that when only ninteen
Miss Mitchell discovered a telescopic comet
which was rewarded by a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. From this time on
her studies gradually brought her into the
notice of scientists, until in 1866 she was
appointed the Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College.
	Again at the very beginning of this cen-
tury there came into this world a woman
whose work began even before Queen
Victoria's. Harriett Martineau, whose
writings on political economy, and the con-
ditions of the laboring classes, proclaimed
her an earnest thinker.


JANET CRYSTAL SHELLEY.

	IT is with feelings of sincere regret that we
chronicle the death of our beloved Sister Janet
Crystal Shelley, who departed this life January I,
1896, of that dread disease diphtheria, aged 23
years and three months.
	Sister Janei was the beloved daughter of James
and Janet Crystal and the wife of Brother Ammon
Shelley, beloved by all within the circle of her ac-
quaintance. A true wife and mother and a faith-
ful friend. Her sudden departure was a shock to
the community, as she had been but a few days
prostrated by the loss of her little daughter
Geneva by the same disease, only a week
previous.
	May the Lord comfort the doubly bereaved hus-
band and the sorrowing parents, and give them
strength to say Father thy will be done, knowing
that she has gone where there is no sorrow nor
mourning, that she has filled her mission and
gone home.with honor. COM.


IN MEMORIAM.

SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS
SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS was born in
Carmarthan, Carmarthanshire South Wales, Jan-
uary 13th, 1833, was baptized by Benjamin Jones 
in the year 1848, emigrated to America, in 1850 
crossed the plains to Utah in 1852, was married to
William L. Perkins Oct. 27th, 1853, was the
mother of ten children of whom there are eight
living; she has thirty-five grand-children and one
great grand child.
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Pleasant Green Relief
Society, to the memory of our beloved Sarah
Jane Perkins who departed this life Feb. 15th,
1896 at 9 a. m. at Pleasant Green of pneumonia.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in his wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah Jane Perkins.
	Be it resolved that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of him who doeth all
things well--
	We do recognize in her death the severe loss of
a faithful energetic and efficient teacher in our
society a true friend to the needy a comforter in
the hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother
and a true Latter-day Saint, we also recognize in
her faithful labors and devotion to the cause of
Zion, an example worthy of the emulation of
each member of our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with her
bereaved husband William L. Perkins her
children and friends in the loss of a faithful wife,
a loving mother and sincere friend.

[Column 2]
  	Also that these resolutions be placed upon the
record of the Pleasant Green Relief Society and
be published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
that a copy be sent to the family of our departed
sister.

Dear, true sister, though her pathway,
	Has been strewn with many a thorn,
She has nobly won the victory
	To her rest she now has gone.

The love of God within her heart,
	Made all her duties light.
Now in far happier scenes she dwells,
	And walks in robes of white.

With those, who like her, kept the faith,
	The gospel light restored,
Having gained the victory over death,
	Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Oh happy thought! we too, may gain,
	The presence of our God,
If we by strict obedience here,
	"Hold fast the iron rod."

ALVIRA L. HIRT,
ANN C. BERTOSH,          Committee.
FRANCIS A. HARDMAN,
FANNY H. JENKINS,

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Sophia Franks Blood,
wife of Brother George Blood who died at her
residence in American Fork, Feb. 24th, 1896, after
a long and tedious illness, she having been sorely
afflicted for a number of years.
	Deceased was born in Lucestershire England,
April 2nd, 1829. Baptized by Brother Bailey at
Whittick 1848, was married to Brother Blood
1853, at Nottingham, and came to Utah in 1861.
Sister Blood has always been a faithful Latter-day
Saint, energetic in the performance of her duties.
She was a teacher in the Relief Society eleven
years filling the position as long as her health
would permit, she loved to attend her meetings
and especially to sing the songs of Zion, in which
she was very enthusiastic, Her husband, seven
children and a number of grandchildren are left
to mourn her loss.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call away our beloved sister to a higher sphere.
Therefore, be it resolved that we the officers and
members of the Relief Society while we deplore
the loss of a faithful and energetic worker
in the cause of God, we realize that she has gone,
to reap the reward promised to the faithful, and
that it would be well that we should emulate her
good works, and obtain with her a glorious resur-
rection with the just.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and earnestly
pray that God our Father will let his Holy Spirit
comfort and bless them in this their hour of trial
and bereavement. Resolved, that a copy of these
resolutions be sent to the bereaved family, one be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,and one be
placed on our records.
	MARY A. EVANS,
	ELLEN D. CLARKE,    } Committee.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


CONFERENCE OF THE N. A. W. S. A.

	(Continued)
REMARKS BY MRS. EMMA J. MCVICKER
	Delivered at the Assembly Hall, May 14,
1895.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I wish to say a few words to show why I
am in favor of woman's suffrage. I have
had a little experience in voting; have voted
twice in this Territory. On the first occas-
ion there was quite a celebration on the
part of nature as there was an earthquake
that evening. However my mind was not
at all disturbed as I did not experience any 
more difficulty in going to the polls to vote
than in going to the Post Office or Bank, or
in transacting any other business which
comes within the province of woman. My
conversion to woman’s suffrage was brought
about by my connection with charity
and reform work. I find that most of the
reform work in the world is carried on by
women, as men do not seem to have faith


[Column 1]
sufficient to undertake such things, and so
it devolves upon women to do the work of
reform.
	A Missionary of Alaska tells the story of
a very difficult mission that he wished to
undertake. He went to the Secretaries of
all the religious denominations in New
York, asking them to undertake the work,
and they all refused, saying that the work
was too difficult to undertake. He then
went to the Woman’s Board of the Presby-
terian Church, and they gladly assumed the
care of the Mission. Vast sums of money
are being entrusted to the care and manage-
ment of women in missionary work. They
have proved themselves honest in all their
relations, so proving their capacity to un-
dertake such matters in relation to Govern-
ment. I do not think we should have had
the occasion for the disgraceful exposures
that have been connected with our city and
county building, if the women had been on
the Board. Mrs. Kimball says that we
certainly should have had an elevator in
the building if the women had anything to
do with it. Men are so debased in their
ideas from their associations in many re-
spects, they cannot look at things from the
same standpoint as the women do when it
comes to questions of reform. For instance:
One of the members of our City Council
said that the more saloons we had in the
city, the better it was for the city. Now
no woman would have uttered such a senti-
ment as that. Then in one political cam-
paign, inducements were held out to the
lowest element of society that they might
have free scope if they would only vote for
a certain party. I do not think that will
happen when women get into politics. I
have heard that it is common talk on the
streets that the reason the baser element of
society is opposed to woman’s suffrage, is
that it fears that it will be driven out of
town.
	MRS. MILLARD OF WEBER COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I did not come to Salt Lake with any in-
tention of speaking—I simply represent
Weber County in the absence of our Presi.
dent, who is ill and could not come, so I
am not at all prepared to address you.
	I joined the Association when it was
first organized eight years ago. Nine
years ago, when I first came to Ogden,
women voted. The following year suffrage
was taken from us, so we organized the
Woman’s Suffrage Association, and with
that I have been identified ever since. Our
membership list of paid-up members is 150,
but we have 250 enrolled on our books.
I think you will pardon me when I say we
have 250 members in Weber County and
we have worked very hard.
	It was stated in the Constitutional Con-
vention that the first gun that was fired for
suffrage came from Weber County, the first
petition came from there, and we are here
now to ratify what our members have done
for us. Iam glad to have Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw with us. Ogden is to enter-
tain them to-morrow, and expects to show
them as much courtesy, respect and glory
as that city possibly can. I thank you.
(Applause.)
	MRS. CLARK OF DAVIS COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I can say that I am pleased indeed to
be numbered among those who are here to-
day to welcome to our Territory soon to be
a state, our pioneer general and her cour-

[Column 2]
teous co-worker, a general of the Revolu-
tionary army of peace. She sits here to-
day the peaceful general of a peaceful revo-
lution. Why? Because we would not lose
one soul for our cause, we would sooner re-
main disfranchised forever than to pay the
price of our liberty with the loss of one hu-
man oul; that is why we call it a peace-
ful army with these brave generals here to
lead us. Like the light of the sun which is
reflected on the tops of the Rocky Moun-
tains, is the beacon light shining from the
two bright stars of the west, and over the
tops of these mountains is another star ris-
ing and the sun in all its splendor will shine
o’er the Rockies restoring lost freedom to
Utah. (Applause.)
	This light is shining into Idaho, into
Oregon, into Nevada and California, also
New York as Miss Anthony told us yester
day; and we must trust the ships that are
sailing toward the light will not be wrecked
on the shoals, but will come safely into the
harbor of equal suffrage.
	Mrs. Clara Colby who many of you are ac-
quainted with by reading her paper, says
that a woman’s love and a wife’s devotion
has been the great pride and glory of all the
world. Poets have sung about it, orators
have exhausted their eloquence upon it,
history has painted it in all its glowing
colors yet some souls seem to think that
those qualities are diminished by legislative
enactment. Women’s sphere is as varied as
the hues of water and that always depends on
the vessel which holds it; sometimes it is like
a little stream bubbling up from some foun-
tain, sometimes like a little brook and again
as a mighty river bearing upon its bosom
the destinies of nations, and when the last
barrier to woman is removed and the ballot
is placed in her hands, then will she surely
be a help-mate to man.
	You are all aware that the Statehood
Banquet of Utah has been prepared and
every loyal citizen will be there waiting the
bridegroom he is not to be alone, but lean-
ing upon his arm will be a beautiful and
blushing bride clothed in the robs of equalty
carryin in her right hand the banner of jus-
tic and beneath the orange blossoms which
wreathe her noble brow will sparkle the
word ‘‘Liberty.” (Applause.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.

	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp wil open her school
of Obstetrics on Tuesday pril 21st.
	Because of the growing demand for
efficient nurses and competent accoucheurs,
the Doctor will devote more of her time to
this class of instruction. She has made
special prices to societies who are engaged
in philanthropic work.
	Those desiring to study should communi-
cate to Dr. Shipp at 18 Main St. either
personally or by letter.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
DR. MAGGIE C SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake. 
Office and re dence 24 W. North Temple
Telephone 383.

UNION PACIFIC SYSTEM

SPECIAL EXCURSION RATES

To Salt Lake City,

FOR CONFERENCE,

April 4th, 5th and 6th

VIA THE UNION PACIFIC.

Wyoming. 					

[Column 1]
	Wyoming.
FROM. 	     RATE.
Laramie.........$23.75
Carbon........... 19.60
Rawlins ......... 15.50
Rock Springs .. 9.75
Green River ... 8.95
Evanston ........ 4.60
Almy .............. 4.50
	Utah.
Wasatch ......... 4.10
Park City....... 2.50
Wanship ........ 2.50
Coalville......... 2.50
Echo............... 2.50
Morgan........... 2.25
Peterson......... 1.75
Uintah............ 1.50
Ogden ............ 1.50
Hooper........... 1.20
Syracuse Jct'n 1.10
Layton........... .75
Kaysville........ .60
Farmington ... .40
Lake Shore..... .40
Centerville...... .35
Woods Cross .. .25
Simpkins........ .25
Terminus........ 1.50
Tooele ............ 1.20
Erda .. ............ 1.10
Halfway house .95
Lake Point.... .80
Garfield ......... .75
Saltair Junc'n. .60
Chambers....... .50
Diamondville. 9.60
Cokeville........ 9.60
Idaho.
Montpelier.... 8.50
Soda Springs.. 7.00
Bancroft......... 7.00
American Falls 8.00
Minidoka....... 8.50
Shoshone........ 12.40
Bellevue......... 15.05
Hailey............ 15.25
Ketchum........ 15.90
Beaver Canyon 12.00
Dubois ........... 11.00
Market Lake.. 9.00
Idaho Falls.... 8.50
Blackfoot....... 7.40
Pocatello....... 7.00
McCammon ... 5.75
Downey ......... 5.00

[Column 2]
FROM. RATE.
Oxford ........... 4.25
Garner............ 4.25
Card............... 4.25
terr. Line.
Cannon.......... 4.00
Idaho.
Preston......... 4.25
Franklin....... 4.25
Utah.
Richmond...... 4.25
Smithfield...... 4.10
Logan............ 3.80
Mendon......... 3.55
Cache Junct'n 3.25
Calvin ............ 3.00
Collinston...... 2.75
Dewey........... 2.50
Honeyville.... 2.25
Brigham........ 2.00
Willard ......... 1.75
Hot Springs... 1.50
Harrisville ..... 1.50
Frisco........... 7.00
Milford ......... 6.00
Smith's Ranch 6.00
Black Rock... 5.75
Clear Lake..... 5.25
Oasis ..... ........ 4.50
Lemmington 3.90
Juab .............. 3.25
Nephi ............ 3.00
Mona ........... 2.50
Santaquin ...... 2.35
Payson ........... 2.35
Benjamin ....... 2.25
Spanish Fork 2.25
Springville..... 2.10
Provo............. 1.90
Lake View..... 1.70
Pleasant Gr've 1.50
Am. Fork...... 1.35
Lehi .............. 1.25
Lehi Junction 1.20
Draper........... .70
Sandy............. .50
Junction ......... .35
Lovendahl's... .30
Germania...... .25
Murray......... .25
Eureka........... 3.25
Ironton ......... 3.25
Silver City ..... 3.25
Mammoth ...... 3.25
Doremus........ 3.00
Rush Valley.. 2.50
Fairfield........ 2.25
Cedar Fort .... 1.95

Selling dates—From Odgen, Santa-
quin and points on Utah & Nevada
and Salt Lake & Western branches
and intermediate points, April 3rd to
6th, good returning until April 12th,
and from all other points April 2nd to
6th inclusive; good returning until
April 15th.
Special trains will be run from
Ogden and Juab and intermediate
points, and on the Utah & Nevada.
For time see posters.
D. E. BURLEY,
Gen'l Agent Pass Dept.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, the Rights of the Women of all Nations. VOL. 24.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1896. No. 22.


CONTENTS:
	The Art Of Raising Silk Worms—Margaret A.
Caine. Progress Of Women—Sarah Boyer.
Cedar City W. S. A. A Golden Wedding—F. E.
S. R. S. Report. Women Voters. Relief So-
ciety Conference—E. B. Wells. Mrs. Lillie R.
Pardee. Obituaries. In Memoriam. The
Farmer—M. E. K.
Editorial:—Passing Events. Minerva White
Snow. Editorial Notes.
Poetry: — The Utah Press Club. — Orielle.
Curtis. Leona.


[Column 1]
THE UTAH PRESS CLUB.
"Hic ordo, culpa careto, caeteris specimen esto."
As crystal clear as stainless glass,
	Bandusia’s laughing fount may play, 
And Aganippe’s waters pass
	From Stygian gloom to jocund day
More pure than sweet Castalia’s dews 
	The sparkling springs of Utah rise,
More bright than fountain’s rainbow hues,
	’Neath Italy’s enchanted skies.
If then, Pierian spring could fire
	The Grecian poet’s classic line,
"Far-sounding Aufidus” inspire
	The Sabine lyrist’s muse divine,
Much more should Utah’s children feel
	The fervid ray, the kindling glow,
When dawns’s light-sandaled feet reveal ,
	The day-spring o’er her peaks of snow.
And shall we say our mountains lack
	The storied eloquence of climes,
Where Romance throws its aureole back
	O’er half-seen, legendary times? .
And must our Western song be still,
	Because the Dryads, loved of yore, .
The Nymphs of forest, stream and hill,
	Drink of the mountain dew no more?
Oh, classic land of oil and wine!
	Embalm in song your glorious Past,
For Marathon fresh garlands twine,
	'Tis only buried fame, at last.
Let painters seek the pictured halls,
	Where Art o’er Rome’s dead grandeur reigns,
The light through tinted windows falls,
	To tell of wrong, and blood, and chains,
What though no Jupiter nor Zeus
	Holds revel on our Wahsatch heights?
Is Beauty dead? Shall we refuse
	A song for Truth and human rights?
What though no awful hero shades 
	Their muffled outlines dimly show?
The mantled myth Earth’s dawn pervades;
	More grandly clear is noon-tide’s glow.
They truly err, who falsely think
	That Helicon alone inspires
When quaffed o’er Falsehood’s moss grown brink
	Or warmed by Wars unhallowed fires,
Fair Fancy better loves the springs
	That gush from Truth’s exhaustless well,
To meet the light on rapturous wings, 
	And, Nature’s seer, her secrets tell.
[-]ear sisters of the Press Club, ours
	The heritage of rock and hill;
Here may we test our varying powers,
	Here teach our pens a nicer skill,

[Column 2]
Believe me, there is not one peak
	Whose wreath of clouds the west winds stir,
But has a voice sublime to speak,
	And waits for its interpreter.
For this is Nature’s secret crypt
	In flaming, red-hot forges wrought;
And Titan hands these valleys dipped,
	Responsive to the Master’s thought:
Here, in Cyclopean work-shops, slaved
	Blind forces, welding seam and joint;
These cliffs are tablet-leaves, engraved
	With iron pen and diamond point.
We know proud Albion’s hedge-rows green,
	Her primrose, lark and daffodil,
Familiar each New England scene, 	Her Merrimac and haunted mill:
We read the Ballads of the Farm,
	Of camp and mine, the pathos wild!
But who has sung of Utah’s charm,
	With gorge and canon deep defiled?
Nor fail we incident sublime,
	Heroic exploits, brave and bold:
Turn back the pictured book of time,
	And rank with, its achievements old,
The tale these earliest pifgrims tell
	Of the primeval solitude:—
The Salt Lake rolled with heavy swell,
	And wild birds screamed their welcome rude.
If this were all, how light our toil
	To question Nature’s sylvan ways,
And weave in lyric lines the spoil
	Of star lit nights and golden days
With retrospective glance, to climb
	The toil-won pinnacles of yore,
And place in filagree of rhyme
	The names of heroes gone before.
But these are times of keen unrest,
	When thought is rent with earth-quake throes:
Forboding, with tumultuous breast,
	The world Fate’s trembling foot-fall knows;
And clang of arms is in the air,
	And words with angry threatening rife;
The winds discordant murmurs bear;
	Earth, quivering, feels impending strife.
Columbia, in whose coronet,
	Our Utah shines, the latest star,
Watches, in far horizon yet,
	The gathering thunder-clouds of war:
Watches, but waits, her cities fair.
	Unguarded by the swelling sea—
Hope of the world, arise, make bare
	The sword that strikes for liberty!
That nation best secures repose
	That sees her mail-sheathed fleet increase;
Behind the yawning cannon grows
	The sweet, white-hearted flower of peace—
But there are better, nobler fields,
	Where heroes bloodless conquest gain,
Where Wrong to Right resistless yields,
	And errors changeful mask is vain.
These conquests spur our wakening powers:
	Problems, the nation’s.life that stir
And thrill the questioning world, are ours:
	Truth loves an ardent worshiper,
Sisters, too long our loitering hands.
	Frail baubles from their work delay,
As children, on the wet sea-sands
	Gather their tinted shells in play.

[Column 3]
We need no Cloelia, brave and strong,
	To breast the stream of public thought:.
Unquestioned heirs, to us belong;
	The rights by patriot Fathers bought 
With better fates, Hypatia now
	Her eager throng of listeners sees,
And here, again, with light-crowned brow, 
	Aspasia counsels Pericles.
Be brave: be strong for truth and right: 	The long, dark night is almost gone:
Behind the mists that dim the sight,
	Behold a brighter era dawn!
Though now fierce lightening’s lurid glare
	Shows phantom shapes of doubt and fear;
Our stars shall shine in clearer air,
	With woman man’s acknowledged peer.
ORIELLE CURTIS


THE ART OE RAISING SILK WORMS.

	THE first to be considered is the seed or
grain, the best is obtained from moths
issued from the first cocoons spun, by the
first worms hatched—these are always the
strongest, and a good start is of great im-
portance. The time of hatching is about
the middle of the moon just as the foliage
begins to come out on the trees. The eggs
should be brought from the low temperature
in which they have been kept to a moderate
warmth, gradually increasing till the
temperature is 75 or 80. All foreign
people wrap the seed carefully in paper and
then in a soft cloth and place inside their
jackets, next the skin, this method insures
an even-temperature, with sufficient
moisture to make them strong; they should
be examined daily, and as soon as they
show signs of hatching, spread out gently
and place a few fine mulberry leaves on
them, the little worms crawl on the leaves
and in this way can be moved to the hurdle,
(and the remaining eggs replaced until
they are hatched) spread the hurdles over
with straw ashes and cover with brown
paper. When they are provided with food
by cutting up the delicate young leaves and
sprinkling these over the young worms,
being careful never to touch the worm’s
with the hand. The hurdles containing
the small worms should be kept in an even
temperature and be protected from drafts,
and sudden changes, and direct rays of the
sun, and feed the worms three times a day.
The excrement of the worms must, be re-
moved with the fibrous parts of the leaves
after the nourishing parts are eaten, and the
worms kept perfectly clean, or they will be-
come sick this can best be done by placing
a few fresh leaves over them, and when the
worms come upon them, they can be lifted
to clean hurdles, and again supplied with
leaves,which are free from moisture.
The worm casts its skin four times dur-
ing its growth, before each change it ceases
to eat, and must be left undisturbed and
free from noise; just as soon as it comes out
of its skin it begins again to eat voraciously,
and increase rapidly in size after each cast-
ling. After the first casting the leaves need 
not be, cut, increase the strength and
quantity of the food daily;—keep in mind
that cleanliness, regularity in meals, even


ness in feeding day and night, are the most
essential points to bring perfect success.
	As the worms grow larger the noise of
their incessant eating is like rain upon the
trees. The worms breathe through little
orifices situated on each side near the legs,
for this reason they should never be allowed
to become crowded together but should be 
given more room as they grow larger.
	No one should attempt to raise worms in
a low marshy place, for in such places the
air is liable to become stagnant, and charged
with noxious vapor, this with all obnoxious
fumes, especially that from tobacco, are in-
jurious and often causes speedy death. Al-
so remember the insects are tender and
must be protected from sudden changes in
temperature, hot weather, being much 
worse than cold, if they are properly fed
they will stand the cold and give more silk,
as they eat much more. Great care should
be taken to have the leaves free from dust,
and dry, but not withered.
	The worms should be watched very
closely, those unable to shed their skins
must be helped out; at the first appearance
of sluggishness in a worm it should be
taken out and thrown away, for if they are
sick it will spread to others, if they are lazy
their cocoons will be worthless, and it is
better to give the room and attention to the 
remainder.
	As they approach maturity the worm be-
comes transparent, ceases to eat, raises and
moves his head from side to side, and 
should be at once provided with small
branches of brushwood or straw (or small
cornucopias made of paper) in which they
will ascend and begin to spin; they should
not be allowed to get close together. They
complete their cocoons in from four to six
days. The male and female cocoons are
easily distinguished, as the female is larger;
an equal number of each should be kept for
propagation—and the rest exposed to
sufficient heat to destroy life, and prevent
further progress of the moth; in this climate
if exposed to the scorching of the sun for
three days, their destruction becomes
effectual, and the cocoons are ready for 
reeling at any time.
	Those which have been reserved for the
production of seed, after the lapse of from
eleven to fifteen days the moth begins to 
push aside the fibers at one end of the
cocoon and crawl out. The sexes almost
immediately couple, the males are thrown
away and the impregnated females are
placed in a darkened apartment for four or
six days, and provided with paper on which
to deposit their eggs; each female produces
about 500 eggs, no food should be given.
Ants, mice, lizards, spiders, and other in-
sects are very fond of the fat tender worms,
and must be guarded against. Thunder
and lightning are very injurious to the 
worms, and it is necessary in stormy
weather to cover up the windows so they 
cannot see the lightning.
	To those who are beginners in the work
we would say—commence by raising a few,
watch them closely, and learn their habits;
by this you will gain experience and will 
not become discouraged.
	MARGARET A. CAINE.
Chairman Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


CLARA BARTON telegraphs that the field is
clear for the Red Cross relief work, without
Turkish obstruction or supervision. The
need is urgent beyond description. Thou-
sands are literally starving to death, having 
been robbed of food, clothing and shelter.


[Column 1]

PROGRESS OF WOMEN.

Progress of Woman since 1840, when
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited
	London.
	THE condition of the women of a nation
is an index of its civilization. Nearly all
nations have favored the domestic seclusion
of women, with the exception of those in
the upper strata of society; and those are
the only ones of which history records their
deeds. We have notable instances where
women have understood the ecenomic
financial and political situation of the nation
in which they were identified and have
been great factors in adjusting affairs in
general commensurate with the needs of
the people. It was a propitious omen of
the position which woman was destined to
hold in America, that the only one who
fully comprehended the scope in its entirety
of Columbus plans, and the intrinsic quali-
ties of his matchless genius, was the able
and gracious Queen of Castile, Isabella and
above all the luminaries of that age shares
the honors of his great achievement. She
arrayed her kingdom and her private for-
tunes behind the enthusiasm of this un-
popular man and we must accredit to her
sagacity and intuition, beyond any of the
nobles of her Court, and posterity pays
homage to her wisdom.
	In less than a century another woman,
Elizabeth of England, was the first Patro-
ness of the first permanent settlement of her
race upon their shores; a race which was
destined to dominate this northern Conti-
nent of the New World. These women
were notable and great in the sphere
in which the accident of birth placed them,
and they made the most of their position
being greatly gifted by nature.
	But the theory of the Civil Laws of
Continental Europe coming down from, the
Roman Code was based on the meekness
frailty and incapacity of the sex. The
husband having complete control of the
wife’s property and was able to dispose of it
at his own pleasure, without her knowledge
and consent These discriminations and in-
equalities with numerous others, were
brought to the notice of our friend and co-
laborer, Elizabeth Cady Stanton whose
birthday we celebrate, and to whose inspira-
tions must be given the precedent of what-
ever has been accomplished in the advance-
ment of woman’s legal and political enfran-
chisement.
	When we consider that it is but fifty-six
years ago when this talented lady, then a
bride of twenty-five, in company with her
husband, who was called as a Delegate to
theWorld’s Anti-slavery Convention held in
London in 1840, was not allowed to sit with
her husband and listen to the discussion of
the slave question, in company with many
eminent women who had gathered from all
parts of the world to answer to the call, but
on their arrival were told that as a conces-
sion they would be allowed to sit behind a
curtain where they could neither see nor be
seen. Imagine these talented ladies subject-
ed to this indignity! However it was the
means of agitating the minds of two of the
most notable among them, Lucretia Mott
and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who decided
that on their return to America they would
call a Woman’s Rights Convention, they,
at that time, had not thought of claiming
the ballot as one of the rights belonging to
women. But this convention was not called
till eight years later in 1848 and a fine

[Column 2]
assemblage of intelligent educated men and
women attended it. The great question to
the women was how to formulate their
grievance. A number of resolutions were
framed, the 9th written and defended by E.
Cady Stanton, was received at first with al-
most universal opposition.
	Resolved, that is the duty of the women
of America to secure to themselves the right
to the Election franchise. This was the
first expression of this kind in this country.
	The majority of the woman movement
including Lucretia Mott, could not see the
consistency of such a radical change. After
a long discussion the resolution was passed
by a small majority. This one woman
whose 80th birthday we celebrate, was the
only one who in 1848 had the courage to
ask for the ballot, and today is working as
assiduously as ever in various lines of work
in the interest and elevation of her sex, and 
has sons and daughters to aid her, and who
are proud of their illustrious mother’s life’s
work. We find greater changes since that
time than we have gained in hundreds of
years before, but that other bright woman
did [-]ot see the need of a wider sphere of
usefulness, and the wall of custom and pre-
judice was so strong that few dared to ven-
ture in such an insurrection. Women
accepted the idea of their intellectual in-
equality. But the idea of equal rights was
in the air, the wail of the slave and her
clanking fetters appealed to everybody.
Women spoke in public in defence of free-
dom for the slave such a thing had never
been heard of. Some of the abolitionists
forgot the slave in their endeavor to silence
the women.
	The Church and the Press heaped re-
proches on women who had so far departed
from their true sphere as to speak in politics
but Whittier wrote at that time “When
woman’s heart is breaking, shall woman’s
voice be hushed?” I do not think it possi-
that the masses of the women of to-day can
ever realize at what price free speech, and
to speak in public at all, has been gained.
At that time Mt. Holyoke Seminary
was declared open to women. The right to
education and every other good thing was
to be gained. The idea that their sphere
was at home was like a band of steel in
society.
	But the spinning wheel and the loom had
been displaced by machinery and something
else had to take their place. A wholesome
discontent in women was urged, that they
might reach out after better things. But
every new step was a trial and a conflict.
Men printers left when women took the
type. About this time Harriet Hosmer
sought by the study of anatomy, to prepare
herself for the medical profession, but was
repelled as out of her sphere and indelicate;
and not a medical college in all New Eng-
land or the United States would admit her,
notwithstanding she was aided by her
father’s great wealth and influence. Finally
Dr. McDowell in St. Louis admitted her.
	When the models for the statue of
Charles Sumner were made, although that
of Annie Whiting, in the judgment of the
Committee, took precedence of all the others,
they refused her the contract for the statue
when they knew that it was the work of a
woman.
	In Massachusetts where properly quali-
fied persons were allowed to practice law,
the Supreme Court decided that a woman
was not a person, and a special act of the
[Continued on Page 143.]


[Continued from Page 138.]
legislature had to be passed before Miss
Lelie Robinson could be admitted to the
bar. Fifty years ago the legal injustice
heaped upon women was appalling. A
wife by her marriage lost all rights to any
personal property she might have previously
had. If a woman wrote a book the copy-
right of the same belonged to her husband
and not to her. No married mother could
have any right to her child, and in most
States of the Union this is the law to-day.
But the laws as to the personal and property
rights of women have been greatly changed
and improved; and we are very grateful to
the men who have wrought this change.
The last half century has gained for women
the rights to the highest education and en-
trance to all the professions and occupations
or nearly so where competency is establish- 
ed.
	A little over fifty years ago the first
woman medical student began her course of
study and now countless thousands are
scattered over the world pursuing their
profession with most signal success. There
are not less than eleven law schools in
the United States open to women, and
twenty-five States and Territories admit
women to the bar. As to the rest we can-
not say they are excluded, for as a matter
of fact, they have not applied except in
Virginia, which for three years has stead-
fastly refused to grant admission to a lady
lawyer. There are two hundred women
lawyers in the United States to-day, nine of
whom are admitted to practice before the
Supreme Court. Every known profession,
occupation and trade seems now open to
women in some part of the civilized world.
She can be a Minister, Doctor, Lawyer,
Professor, Lecturer, Journalist, Mechanic,
Architect, Sculptor, Painter, Merchant and
in fact, whatever she chooses to do or un-
dertake, she is permitted. In view of this
entire revolution in her social status, should
she not logically possess the same civil and
legal rights, and be subject to the same civil
and legal liabilities? There are twenty-five
out of a total of forty-eight States and
Territories of our union where women en-
joy some form of Suffrage. In Canada
women can vote for all Municipal officers
throughout the length and breadth of the
dominion, although no married women
can vote except in Manitoba and British
Columbia. The women of all the Colonesi
of Great Britian, from Cape Colony to New
Zealand enjoy Municipal Suffrage. In Ice-
land as in Wyoming and Colorado and also in
the Isle of Man, women enjoy full and equal
suffrage with men. The age of consent which
in many states has been placed at the age of
10 years has been raised by very recent legis-
lation to 14 and 16, and the first woman
legislator in Colorado presented a bill
raising it to 18 years.
For the better protection of women under
arrest, police matrons have been placed in
the station houses of some of our American
cities, to take charge of those women during
their detention. Laws have been made
forbidding women to work near dangerous
machinery as formerly; laws requiring shop
keepers to provide seats for saleswomen.
A married woman is now protected from
the violence of her husband by the legal
right given her to prosecute him for assaults
upon her. The old theory of the husband’s
right to chastise hi's wife has disappeared
from English and American laws. The


[Column 1]
Codes of Continental Europe fail to do justice
to woman in respect to her personal protec-
tion in matters of divorce, for certain
criminal offences where the privileges of
the man are greater than those of the wo-
man, making it less easy for her than for him
to obtain a divorce.
	In every state of the Union, except
Tennessee, at the present time the wife’s
property is so far secured for her that it can-
not be taken for her husband’s debts, and if
she survives him, it is to be her sole and
separate property But a majority of the
states go farther than this and give to the
wife the sole ownership and control of her
property as if she were unmarried.
	In Europe the widow has not full power
to be guardian of her child; she must act
under the advice of a special council appoint-
ed by the father in his will, and the widow
cannot discipline her children without the
concurrence of the nearest relatives on the
father’s side. So we can plainly see that we
are far in advance of those olden Countries
in many respects, and one must attribute
this in a great degree to the progressive-
ness of our women; continually presenting
their claims before its Legislature until
men saw the justice of their claims and
yielded to their demands, and women are
making the most of their advantages.
	The relative numerical positions of men
and women as investors in building and
loan associations, is as one to four, that is
25 per cent of the building and loan shares
of stock in the Eastern, and Middle Western
States are owned by women. In New
Jersey every fourth shareholder is a woman.
In a teachers building and loan association
in New York City, ninety per cent of the
members were women earning their own
money, and many of them built several
houses to rent through the association.
The tremendous financial power which
women might become in this country, they
have never as yet realized. It is therefore
an exploded theory that women who have
property to manage must be provided with
guardians. I do not mean that she is a
more honest or wiser financier than man,
but simply that she is, a more careful one.
Hence we find, though prejudice of race and
religion, have gone and the disqualification
of sex is disappearing by the free opening
up of all professions to meritorious appli-
cants, “That Custom is Law” and recog-
nized as one of the fundamental maxims
in ancient jurisprudence. But the deform-
ities and failures which resulted from their
efforts gave rise to a new Code, based on
principles of justice and equality, But this
achievement has not been instantaneous,
woman has not obtained, a place in the pro-
fessions by demanding her rights, as Shy-
lock contended for his pound of flesh, but like
Portia by unfolding the harmony and the
correlation of legal and equitable claims.
Merit has no sex; whoever can work and
wait to win is sure to achieve both recogni-
tion and success, and in the uplifting of her
sex she follows a more divine star of ambi-
tion than that which sat at St. Helena.
	The married women and mothers must
ever constitute a great majority of any
population and it is right that it should be
so, but, what they are thinking and doing,
is the thinking and doing of a nation;
especially is this true of a Republic. Poli-
tics, I know, are a bye-word, but if those
home women could be enthused with the
love of country as the mothers of the Revo-
lution learned it, do you not think it would
be improving to the politicians? Our great-

[Column 2]
ness lies in our opportunity; born of condi-
tions and events which seem inevitable and
for which we deserve little credit. How
we shall use our gifts is for us to decide.
This Nineteenth Century is sweeping
grandly on to its close, carrying with it
mighty movements that can no more be
staid by the hand of man, than the rushing
waters of the Niagara or the tide of the
ocean. Of woman’s mission in this on-
ward march, we would repeat the divine
command “Give her of the fruit of her
hands, and let her own works praise her
within the gates.” Equality between the
sexes is not in the equal portion of the
same work, but the equality of their whole
contribution to the welfare of the race.
Hail then Twentieth Centnry! I see a
race of men Strong, brave and true because
the mothers of men are free. Go to thy
grave oh Nineteenth Century, a century that
will stand out for all time as an era that
buried slavery and ushered in liberty, that
enfranchised the colored race and women;
and when the historian shall make up the
records of the 19th Century, such men as
Lincoln, Sumner, William Loyd Garrison,
Garfield and Grant; a century that had its
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone,
Lucretia Mott. Susan B. Anthony, Frances
Willard, Clara Barton and many others who
have adorned and enobled the world, who
are assisting in the work they have so
magnanimously devoted their lives to, and
may posterity to the latest generation
cherish their memory as we do, that it may
be a guiding star to make the world better,
happier, more virtuous and prosperous.
	SARAH BOYER.
	(Writtten for Mrs. Stanton’s birthday.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEONA.
	BY JAMES G. CLARK. 

LEONA, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we’ve waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky, 
That my spirit may break from its prison, and
	try
	Its voice in an infinite song.
Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o’er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
	Those windows which look on the kingdom of
	light
	That borders the river of death. 
And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a moring lit land; 
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
    	And I heard the low lull as they broke at their
	feet
Who walked on the beautiful strand.
	And I wondered why spirits could cling,
 	To their clay with a struggle and sigh,
When life’s purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.
Leona, come close to my bed,
    And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrilled me in days that are
	fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the
	dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.
We have lived from the cold world apart
    	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o’erthrow when the slanderer’s
	dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
 	I was dearer than ever to you.
I thank the great Father for this,
    	That our love is not lavished in vain;
	Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that
	we kiss
Never shrink at the shadow of pain.
By the light of this faith am I taught
    	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and
	fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has
	caught
The gleam of Eternity’s sun.
Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
	The twilight advances through woodland and
	wold,
    	And the dews are beginning to weep.
The moon’s silver hair lies uncurled
    	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
	The sunset’s red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o’er the plains of the
	world,
 And shall rise in a limitless way.
O! Come not in tears to my tomb,
    	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
	And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
  	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.
Yet deeply those memories burn
 	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being
	would yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home, to return,
    	And visit the home of its birth.
’Twould even be pleasant to stay 
   	 And walk by your side to the last:

[Column 2]
But the land-breeze of Heaven is beginning to 
	play—
Life-shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
    	And its tumult is hushed in the past.
Leona, good-by; should the grief
    	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome 
	is brief,
 O'er lowland and river to me.


CEDAR CITY W. S. A.

	ENCLOSED please find Minutes of Anni-
versary Meeting of W. S. A., held in Cedar
City Mar. 18th, 1896. The meeting was
held in the Tabernacle at 7.30 p. m.
	Opened by singing “The Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Watson. The song entitled “Colum-
bia’s Daughter" was sung by the members.
	County President E. C. Watson made
opening remarks which were very interest-
ing; she said that as this was the first
anniversary of this auxiliary branch, she
could see that we had made vast improve-
ment, and judging from the vast congrega-
tion present, allayed much prejudice. She
urged them not to disband, but to keep on
in the good work. She said that in the
augmentation of their liberty women had
not neglected their home duties, but that
they had become better fitted to perform
them.
	This was followed by a song and chorus
entitled "Utah the Gem of the Union,”
which was beautifully rendered by Miss
Maud Lunt.
	“The New Star” was read by Mrs W. J.
McBurney which contained choice contribu-
tions from the members. A guitar duet
was beautifully rendered by Mrs. Joyce
Palmer and Miss Kate Palmer. Next was
a recitation entitled “Women and Wine”
by President Charlotte Walker.
	This was followed by a select reading
“Twelve Reasons why a Woman should
Vote” by Mrs. Rose Lunt.
	A ten minutes speech was given by Mrs.
John Parry, who handled the subject of
Equal Suffrage in an able manner. Mrs.
Florence Webster rendered the vocal solo
Longfellow’s “Rainy Day’ in excellent
style. A highly interesting essay on the
“Topics of the Day” was read by Mrs.
Sarah Chatterley. This was followed by
a solo and chorus “Equal Rights Banner”
by Mrs. V. Uric. County President E. C.
Watson earnestly solicited a full attendance
next meeting as they wished to elect new
officers. Benediction by Bishop William
Corey.
	Minutes of W. S. A. held in Cedar City,
March 23, 1896, 
	Meeting called to order by President C.
Walker. A song entitled “The Battle
Hymn of the Republic” was then sung.
	Prayer was then offered by Mr. John V.
Adams. “Columbia’s Daughters” was 
then sung. A few remarks were then
made by President Charlotte Walker. She
spoke of the good done by the association. 
	She was followed by County President E.
C.Watson, who spoke of the vast improve- 
ment of the association.
	Officers were then nominated. Mrs.
Charlotte Walker was re-elected President.
Miss Sadie Wilkinson was chosen as Vice-
President, and Mrs. Caroline Ahlstrom as
Second Vice-Pres. Miss Maggie Stewart


was elected as Secretary and Treasurer.
	An Executive Committee of five was
elected.
	Closing remarks were made by County
President, after which several new members
added their names to the list.
	MAGGIE STEWART, Sec.
	CHARLOTTE WALKER, Pres.
	NELLIE HOUCHEN, Cor. Sec


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	AT the foot of a gigantic mountain lies
the pastoral village of Pleasant Grove,
which numbers among its inhabitants two
of our aged pioneers. One of these, Broth-
er Hanson Walker, who with others pio-
neered the way to this barren waste and
has assisted to make it the Utah of to-day,
celebrated his Golden Wedding, on Friday,
April 10th, 1896. His children and his
children's children with relatives and friends
poured in upon him and his good wife
Elizabeth; they have lived happily together
for fifty years Brother Henson Walker is
76 years old and his wife, Elizabeth
Foutz Walker, is in her 69th year. They
have had seven children, thirty-nine grand-
children and nine great grand-children, but
not all were present as some live far from
here, while others have passed to the “Great
Beyond.” A goodly number were present
as were also other children of Brother Walk-
er’s, his posterity numbering one hundred
and eleven. Among the guests present
was the mother of Mrs Walker, Sister
Margaret Foutz, who has reached the ad-
vanced age of ninety-five years, and is yet
quite active.
	The evening was spent in relating old
time scenes; carrying the aged couple back
to the time when they together started out
on the then untried journey of wedded life,
witth songs and recitations from the young-
er members, and congratulations and wish-
es for many happy returns of their wedding
day from all present, the time was pleasant-
ly passed, not forgetting the bountiful re-
past that all present did justice to. They
are old residents of this place, and their
many friends join in congratulating them
on the happy advent of their 50th wedding
day.
	F.   E.  S.


R.S. REPORT.

		OAKLEY, SUMMIT CO.
Editor Exponent:
	SEEING reports from other branches of
the Relief Society in your valuable paper,
we thought you would like to hear from us.
Although we are new beginners, we have
excellent meetings considering the ward is
so scattered, and we are so few in number.
	Our society was organized June 10, 1895.
Our president, Sister Eliza West is very
energetic and persevering; her assistants
and all the members seem to be willing to
do all in their power to carry the work
along. The members have all donated
liberally and we are storing up wheat as we
were counseled to do.
	ELIZA WEST, President,
	ELLA M. HORTON, Ass’t. Sec.


THE death of Sister Willmirth East,
President Relief Society St. Joseph Stake,
has been casually alluded to in the Deseret 
News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
								
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei.
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL, 15, 1896.


PASSING EVENTS.

	THE first Legislature of the State of
Utah has closed its session and the bills 
have many of them been signed by the
Governor and are, or soon will be, in force.
For the most part the work of the Legis-
lators has been satisfactorily done, and the
Governor has proved himself capable of
maintaining his own views when he felt he
was right, instead of yielding to persuasion
or other influences however powerful.
Every one who is at all conscientious must
admire this quality in an executive officer.
The women of Utah have good reason to
admire the Governor’s method of appoint-
ing women on all Boards of institutions
where there was a vacancy, or where women
could possibly serve 
	The Woman's Journal of Boston soon
noted the fact of the appointment of Mrs.
Harriet F. Emerson and Dr. Martha Hughes
Cannon on the Board of the Deaf and
Dumb Institute. Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
who was nominated last year for Super- 
intendent of Public Instruction, but was
not eligible on account of women not being
legally permitted to vote or be voted for,
has been made one of the Board of Regents 
of the University, and is admirably fitted 
for the position; a woman of rare capabili-
ties, a teacher of many years standing, a
practical educator and progressive in all her
work and attainments.
	The Agricultural College has two women
on its Board of officers, Mrs. Sarah B.
Goodwin and Mrs. Emily S. Richards, the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society has women also, Mrs. Margaret B. 
Salisbury and Bertha G. Bamberger, Mrs.
Mary A. Hendrickson, Logan, and Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton, Provo and when we
come to the Utah Silk Commission there are
five, the entire Board, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Isabella E. Bennett, Mrs. Mar-
garet A. Caine, Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury
and Mary A. Cazier.
	It is a matter of congratulation to the
women of Utah that the Legislature passed
the silk bill. Two of the women on the
silk commission are practical sericulterists
and have done much primitive work. The
industry is decidedly woman’s work, and
will, if methods now anticipated are carried
out, provide light employment for hundreds
of women and children.


THE annual meeting of the State Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs, will be held in
this city, at Unity Hall, May 20 and 21.
A fine program is being prepared.


MINERVA WHITE SNOW.

	THE news of the unexpected demise of
Sister Minerva White Snow, wife of Apos-
tle Erastus Snow, was quite a shock to
many of her friends and to her relatives in
this City. Sister Snow died April 1, 1896,
at Manti, where she has been living for
several years past, having been called there
at the time of the dedication of the Manti
Temple, and has been laboring therein al-
most continuously. 
	Sister Snow was greatly beloved for her
many excellent qualities, which endeared
her to all those with whom she was asso-
ciated. Faithful and true in every depart-
ment of life, a loving wife, an affectionate
mother, a sympathetic friend, a wise coun-
selor, full of integrity and abounding in
faith and good works, amiable, tender, con-
siderate of the feelings of others and full of
charity. Sister Snow was one among the
first women to enter into the order of plural
marriage, and had the courage of her
convictions through all the trials and perse-
cutions the Saints have had to endure in
sustaining the principle.
	Born and reared in New England of Puri-
tan forefathers, she possessed the true char-
acteristics and habits that fitted her to be-
come a woman of influence in the best
sense; always gracious and winning, hum-
ble as a child, teaching by example lessons
of patience and gentleness.
	Sister Snow has filled many honorable
positions of usefulness; she was the first
Stake President of the Relief Society of St.
George Stake, and filled the place for sever-
al years, until Brother Snow was called to
Mexico. There she was unceasing in her
labors of love and after their return to this
City, she was chosen by Sister M. Isabella
Horne to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Sister Phoebe W. Woodruff in the
General Retrenchment Association. After
having been appointed to labor in the Manti
Temple, she was chosen by Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde as her Counselor in the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, and
also to act as an aid in the Y. L. M. I. A.
of that Stake. In every position and calling
she labored diligently to do good and to in-
spire others with the same noble desires and
aspirations. She has gone to her rest fully
prepared, although death was to her so un-
expected. She remarked that it was only
a cold, she would soon be better; in a note
addressed to the writer on March 30th, she
spoke of being sick with a cold, and in less
than forty-eight hours after her spirit had
taken its flight.
	‘‘After the burden and heat of the day
	The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way
	A sleep in the robe of white.”


EDITORLIAL NOTES

	ON Monday April 13th, at a regular
meeting of the Reaper’s Club, Miss Sarah
J. Elliott of Moab, Grand County, (and for-
merly of New York City) entertained the
Club with an extremely interesting account
of the Red Cross Society, and of its Nation-
al President in this country, Miss Clara
Barton, who is now in Turkey whither she
went with relief stores for the persecuted
and afflicted Armenians. Miss Elliott was
with Miss Barton at Johnstown after the
terrible catastrophe there, working for the
sufferers. She is a very talented woman,
wonderfully gifted with language, easy and


graceful in her manner, has a charming
presence, and is gifted with a musical voice;
altogether her address was most pleasing
and instructive, and was greatly appreciated
by all who had the opportunity of listening.
	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
has just recently closed, was a very impor-
tant one, and was largely attended from all
the adjacent Stakes of Zion. President
Wilford Woodruff spoke several times duing
the three days sessions, and his voice was
particularly clear, and he could be heard in
all parts of the large Tabernacle, as well as
any of the younger brethren and much
better than some of them. President Wood
ruff is undoubtedly the most wonderful
man of his age in this country; though he
i now in his ninetieth year—he is in
possession of a goodly degree of health and
streugth and seems likely to continue so for
years to come. The whole tenor of the
preaching during the Conference was that
there should be greater union and obedience
to the laws and commandments of the
Church. On the last afternoon a Manifesto
was read and voted upon by the congrega-
tion assembled, which set forth very clearly
the duties and requirements of the Church
officers and members, and what kind of
people the Latter-day Saints should be in
order to obtain the blessings promised to
them, and that they might fulfill what was
expected of them in building up Zion. All
those who spoke seemed inspired with the
spirit of their calling, to teach and instruct
the people in the ways of the Lord.


WOMEN VOTERS.

	As it will be necessary that all women
should know their political status under the
law in regard to qualifications for voting,
we thought it would be well to republish
the following article from one of the lead-
ing daily papers of this City, and we hope
the women of the state will take due
notice of the facts herein contained.—ED.
	It is estimated that there are in round
numbers fifty thousand women of voting
age in the State. But all of them are not
voters. Uncertainty as to the number of
Utah women of foreign birth and over 21
years of age, who are not yet citizens, adds
to the complexity of the political situation.
Some authorities place the number as high
as ten thousand, but, at the best, figuring
on the subject is merely guess-work, as
there are no statistics on which to base an
estimate.
	The women who are not naturalized and
therefore not electors, constitute two classes,
one being composed of those who may be
naturalized during the coming campaign,
and the other of those who must make
declarations of intention to become citizens,
and then wait two years before first citizen-
ship papers can be issued to them.
	All women of foreign nativity who are or
have been married to citizens, either native
born or naturalized, are themselves citizens,
the citizenship of the husband having had
the effect of naturalizing the wife, by virtue
of an act of Congress. All children of for-
eign birth, both male and female, who
were residents of the United States and
under 21 years of age at the time of the
naturalization of their parent, are entitled
to vote, if now 21.
	Those who arrived in the United States
before they were 18 years of age, and


whose parents have not been naturalized,
may become citizens at any time after reach-
ing the age of 21, without filing a declara-
tion of intention, provided that at the time
of applying for a certificate the applicant
has resided in this country five years.
	The women who, though of the required
age, cannot vote this year are those of 
foreign birth who are not and have not 
been married to citizens, or who have not
been naturalized by the naturalization of 
their parents, while the children were
minors; or who did not arrive in this 
country before they were 18 and five years
prior to the last date on which aliens can be
naturalized this year in time to vote at the 
November election. This date will occur
ninety days before election, as one of the 
qualifications of a voter, under the Con-
stitution, is citizenship for ninety days.
	It will thus be seen that a foreign wo-
man who arrived in the United States after
she had reached the age of 18, and who has
not been made a citizen by virtue of mar-
riage or the naturalization of a parent, will
be required, before she can become a quali-
fied elector, to file a declaration of intention
with a clerk of a court, and wait two years
thereafter for the issuance of a certificate of 
citizenship.
	It is believed that the women who will 
be unable to qualify themselves for voting
this year, number several thousand, but as 
before stated, no one can at present do 
more than guess at the proportion they form
of the total number of women of the State.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held Friday, April 3, 1896, in
the Assembly Hall in this City, morning
session opening at 10 a. m., President Zina
D.H. Young presiding. On the Stand
were, of the general officers, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Isabella Horne,
and E. B. Wells, and of the Presidents of
Stake organizations, Mary A. T. Hyde,
Susan Grant, Elizabeth Fox, Mary Pitch-
forth, Jane S. Coleman, Ann C. Woodbury
and several others.
	Conference opened with the hymn “Lord
we come before thee now” Prof. C. J
Thomas leading the singing. Prayer by
Elder C. J. Thomas; singing. Roll called
Minutes read and approved; Statistical and
Financial report read and accepted. Presi-
dent Young was the first speaker, she urged 
the sisters to exercise faith and seek diligent-
ly for the spirit of God, that we might have
his blessings upon all our efforts. Referred
to the death of three of our good sisters,
who now lay awaiting burial; our beloved
Minerva W. Snow, Lucy Smith and Sister
Maeser, who were safe now beyond the
reach of pain or sorrow, but whose loss we
deeply felt. Sister Young spoke upon the
return of many wayward and indifferent
ones to the fold, and realized that love and
union would accomplish much in winning
back those who had turned away. Mrs.
Betsy Brower presented a bust of President
Young to President, Zina D. H. Young, for
and in behalf of Mrs. Almira Merrill and
the Richmond Relief Society Sister Young
very graciously acknowledged this token of
the love and esteem of the sisters of Rich-
mond, and paid a beautiful tribute to Brig-
ham Young and to Sister Eliza R. Snow,
referring to the beautiful hymn “O, my
Father” and spoke reverently of the ever-
lasting priesthood; said we should be firm as

[Column 2]
rocks in our integrity, and invoked the
blessing of God upon the congregation.
	Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne Stake,
Zina Y. Card. Alberta, Canada, Elizabeth
Fox, President Oneida Stake, Annie W.
Larsen, President Emery Stake. L. M.
Hart, Bear Lake Stake, Annie D. Bowring
Box Elder Stake, Margaret Goodman, St.
Joseph Stake, Ann C. Woodbury, Presi-
dent St. George Stake, Mary A. Anderson,
Bannock Stake, Mary Pitchforth, Juab
Stake, Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, each gave
a brief and interesting report. The sub-
jects treated upon were, exemplary home
life, cultivation of faith, spirit of prayer,
practical work of the Society, its uplifting
tendency, the wonderful success attending
the efforts of the sisters in building halls,
storing grain and visiting the sick, the
needy and unfortunate; the blessings of the
Lord upon the Society as a whole in all the
world, and the expectations to be realized
in the great future. Several of those who
spoke alluded pathetically to the recent
death of Sister Minerva W. Snow who had
endeared herself to the hearts of all those
who knew her. All the sisters spoke of
the celebration of Sister Zina D. H. Young’s
birthday anniversary, and the excellent
spirit manifested in the exercises of the day.
Sister M. A. Hyde spoke powerfully in the
gift of tongues, and Sister Zina gave the
interpretation. The congregation sang,
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Bene-
diction by Elder Henry W. Hales of
Deseret, and meeting adjourned until 2
p. m.

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” The first
speaker was Sister Marilla M. Daniels, of
Provo, who bore an excellent testimony of
the truth, aud spoke of the many virtues of
Sister Minerva who had just passed away;
thought it a beautiful thing to live up-
rightly, referred to many scenes in the past.
	Annie E. Ward , Counselor in Parowan
Stake and H. E. Hoyt, Counselor Kanab
Stake gave good reports, similar to those
made in the morning.
	Sister S. M. Kimball, after some pre-
liminary remarks, spoke very interestingly
upon the Kindergarten, thought this was a
work which should be encouraged by the
Relief Society; it was not sufficiently under-
stood, but the principles of that system
really lay at the foundation of the child’s
education morally and spiritually; expected
there would be an article published in the
Deseret Evening News on the following
day which would give a clear idea of the
Kindergarten influence and work. The Pri-
mary Association lays the foundation for
the Mutual Improvement Association
which is for mental and spiritual growth.
The speaker thought the young women did
not realize the importance of the work of
the Relief Society, nor could they until
they came into contact with it. She felt
the Relief Society called into exercise all
the faculties of our nature, and it was ex-
pected the young women of to-day would
be more intellectual and more spiritual be-
cause they had better preparation than those
who had laid the foundation of this Society,
who had not been privileged with similar ad-
vantages It was no small mission and no
small calling, but a responsibility; and no
blessing ever came from shirking a re-
sponsibility; but a blessing comes with it,

[Column 3]
if properly fulfilled; it is a position of use-
fulness and of honor, and it is necessary
that younger women should come forward
and assist in the Relief Society. Hannah
E. Crosby Secretary of Relief Society of
Panguitch Stake, Lucy S. Cordon Counsel-
or Cache Stake, Ruth Pack Counselor
Summit Stake, Susan Grant, President
Davis Stake and M. Isabella Horne Presi
dent Salt Lake Stake, each reported the
work in their respective organizations;
thought there was a decided improvement
in spiritual work, and urged the sisters to
increased diligence in all duties whether of
a temporal or charitable nature. Sister
Horne spoke urgently upon the Kindergar-
ten movement and recommended the branch-
es in the Salt Lake Stake to use their
influence in helping to establish these schools;
referred to the signs of the times and the
threatening aspect of affairs in our own and
other nations.
	President B. W. Smith, spoke of hearing
Joseph Smith the Prophet preach when she
was a very young woman; she remembered
at one time he said in speaking of the ten
tribes “Perchance they are not on this
globe; it may be they are broken off and
gone rolling away into space, and when
some great shock is given to the earth, it
may return the portion broken away and
the ten tribes with it.” “The Prophet also
taught us the order of prayer and the of Re-
lief Society. In the Seventeenth Ward, since
Sister Zina has talked of the young sisters
joining, we have sent out missionaries to
try and induce them to come into our Relief
Society and help us with the work, and it
has been a good thing for us; we have
succeeded very well.”
	President Jane S. Richards gave an
excellent report of Weber Stake and of the
harmony existing there between the
Bishops and the Relief Society, but realized
that as they were in a railroad town where
so many lines joined, they had many more
poor and destitute people than even Salt
Lake City had, and consequently their treas-
ury was always heavily drained, and they
had to work very hard to do what was
really essential; the sisters were willing
but they could not do everything. Sis-
ter Richards stated she had joined the Relief
Society in Nauvoo when she was twenty;
her daughter and daughters-in-law had join-
ed when young; she believed it to be quite
the proper thing to do. At one time when
she presided in Ogden City, she persuaded
80 of the young girls to unite with the
Relief Society and they stayed with it. She
did not have a program, but speaking, testi-
monies and experiences; thought we should
teach our children concerning faith and vir-
tue, honesty and reverence for the aged;
they are the ones who have laid the founda-
tion. Said many other good things and
made some apt illustrations.
Sister Zina asked the sisters to sing a
verse or two of the hymn “How firm a
foundation” etc. two verses were ren-
dered, Sister Mary P. Silver leading. Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, spoke of the great honor
and blessing of the Relief Society, and
praised the whole work of these diligent
and faithful mothers; thought it the duty of
the younger women to come to their aid
and help in this praiseworthy cause while
there was an opportunity to learn of those
who had the experience; spoke plainly up-
on the need of competent help for the sick
and afflicted in the various wards and places,
and thought the Relief Society should take


[Column 1]
this matter into consideration and see that
settlements were provided with educated
midwives and nurses, skilled in the pro-
fession.
	President Young made a few closing re-
marks in which she spoke of the wheat and
stated that President Woodruff had said in
regard to it, that he had no right to take a
handful of that wheat and dispose of it—
the wheat was held in sacred trust for a day
of scarcity and famine.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow.” Prayer by Bishop Wm. R.
Allen, Draper. Conference adjourned un-
til 7.30 p. m.
	A meeting of Presidents of Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society or their
representatives, for special instructions was
held in the Assembly Hall at the close of
the afternoon services.
	EVENING SESSION.—Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Two of the Apostles
were on the Stand, Franklin D. Richards
and Heber J. Grant, also C. W. Penrose of
the Presidency of Salt Lake Stake, and
Sisters Jane S. Richards, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt and others, Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father” and
prayer was offered by Apostle H. J. Grant,
singing “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Helena Madsen President of
Relief Society at Gunnison was the first
speaker; they have 160 members in the
Society, and a very good average attendance.
She referred to the store they had establish-
ed which was a source of income and a great
advantage in many ways to them; they had
also built a very nice hall, commenced fif-
teen years ago; it is called the Relief Society
Hall. They rent it for various purposes,
the City Council meet there, it is used for
theaters and concerts, and sometimes for
district school purposes. It is quite a large
building, and brings in some means to the
Society. Sister Madsen told some very
interesting things in relation to their man-
agement.
	Sister Libbie Noall, who returned last
fall from the Sandwich Islands, gave a
most interesting description of her labors in
the Relief Society among the native sisters
on those islands. The first Relief Society
organized over there was in 1875—since
that time there have been sixty branches,
some have died out, and others have been
organized. At the present time there are 39;
some of these are necessarily small as the
people are scattered. These sisters are as
willing to make sacrifices as we are at home
in Zion; they are full of faith and zeal in
their religion, and are naturally gifted in
speaking. They learn quickly and do
fancy work of various kinds. They are
fond of their meetings and will walk long
distances to attend religious services, were
very willing to donate to all public purposes.
Sister Noall gave a vivid idea of the condi-
tions on those far away islands, and her
missionary labors there have certainly been
a success.
	Mary Hall, Counselor to the President of
the Relief Society Malad Stake, gave a
brief report of their work and referred to
the diligence of the sisters in their labors
spiritual and temporal, they had recently
made one hundred yards of carpet for the
Logan Temple. The sisters some of them
would travel long distances to attend Con-
ference.
	Elder C. W. Penrose in his remarks
alluded to the ideas which had prevailed
formerly in regard to the position of women

[Column 2]
in our Church. Spoke definitely upon
priesthood and the relative position of men
and women, their dependence upon each
other, and the harmony which should exist;
wives should be helpmeets to their hus-
bands. The speaker rejoiced that the wo-
men of Utah had equal political rights with
men, was not fearful of their abusing the
privilege, wanted to see them use the fran-
chise to maintain right, and stand for justice
and righteousness until evil should be over-
come. He was glad to be with those
honored women whom he had known so
many years, and who had a right to preside
over all the Relief Society in all its branch-
es throughout all lands.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a
short time on the importance of younger
women coming forward and helping in the
work of the Relief Society, and getting the
practical benefit of the experience of the old-
er sisters, who are so well acquainted with
the work from the beginning of the or-
ganization. Counseled those present to
persuade the young women to join the Re-
lief Society and attend the meetings; felt it
was the higher spiritual work and that
other organizations had grown out of it.
	Apostle H. J. Grant, in his address, paid
a high tribute to the Relief Society and its
work, and spoke encouragingly of the suf-
frage; said he had always believed it to be
the privilege of women to have the fran-
chise, and had never taken any part in the
opposition; thought women would in some
respects set an example for men; had real-
ized how strong a mother's influence could
be; his own life had been greatly influenced
by his mother, her precepts, her example,
her influence had kept him from straying
into by and forbidden paths; he owed all to
his mother; he paid a glowing tribute to
woman.
	Apostle F. D. Richards felt complimented
to be in the Sister's Conference; thought
Sister Young had done well to have the
day before the General Conference, appreci-
ated the changed condition, that we
had liberty and were now a state, and in
that state women had equal rights with
men. Thought the sisters had, in going
out into the world, helped to turn back the
tide of opposition that had been arrayed
against this people formerly. Referred to
the wonderful work being accomplished
now by the missionaries. Many Elders
were being sent out, calls were coming in
for more and more. Urged the sisters to
keep their records of meetings, the records
that had been kept of the sayings of Joseph
the prophet and of Brigham Young, how
precious they were now; there is nothing
will tell so well what has been done as the
records. Related some incidents to illus-
trate these statements. The speaker referred
with apparently great satisfaction to the
three intermountain states which had equal
suffrage, and to the growth and influence
of the National Relief Society, felt the
name indicated its increased strength and
power. The world was watching the pro-
gress made by this great body of women.
and we should prove ourselves a strength
and power to help other women. Brother
Richards spoke beautifully upon faith and
the gifts of the gospel, and especially the
gift of healing, and of administering to the
sick, and quoted the Savior's words, “These
signs shall follow them that believe.”
Encouraged the sisters to exercise faith
and to administer to the sick and afflicted,
and rebuke disease in the name of Jesus,
“The Lord will magnify His people, His

[Column 3]
work will prosper in the land, but we mus
do our part, be humble and faithful, and
we will not be lacking in any good thing.”
Brother Richards prophesied good con-
cerning Zion and the work of the Latter
days, and blest the congregation. Con-
ference closed with singing, ‘ We thank
Thee O, God for a prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop C. A. Madsen. Adjourn-
ed until next October.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS LILLIE R. PARDEE.
   
	THE Ohio papers were proud to publish
Mrs. Pardee as Secretary of the first Sen-
ate of our our new State, and we take
pleasure in republishing the following
notice, and in expressing our own apprecia-
tion of the ability and capability of the lady
in the public positions she has so honorably
and acceptably filled. We have also a per-
sonal friendship for Mrs. Pardee; aside from
her public services she possesses many lov-
able and endearing qualities of head and
heart. Ed.
	AN OHIO GIRL IS SECRETARY OF THE 
	UTAH STATE SENATE.
“MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE, of Salt Lake
City, who has been recently elected to the
secretaryship of the Senate of the new
State of Utah, was born in September, 1864.
She is a native of Ohio and was graduat-
ed from Buchtel College, where she received
the highest honors ever given to a graduate
of that college. Until her marriage four
years ago, she was professor of Greek and
Latin and instructor in the gymnasium of
the same college. 
	Her maiden name was Lillie R. Moore.
James D. Pardee, an attorney of Salt Lake
City is her husband, and they have a
daughter 3 years old.
	Mrs. Pardee is a type of the younger
generation of Gentile women. She was
brought into prominence during the prepar-
ation for statehood through her gifts as an
orator. She has a fine stage presence, a
rich sonorous voice of great carrying power,
which has had special training under Dr.
Curry, of the Boston school of expression.
	By reason of her earnest work in the
Woman’s Republican League, she was ap-
pointed secretary of the county committee,
and afterwards was nominated by the
county convention for a seat in the Senate
of the new state. Owing to the decision of
the Utah Supreme Court against the legal
right of women to vote at the recent elec-
tion, Mrs. Pardee voluntarily withdrew her
name from the ticket in order not to endanger
the interests of her party in the legislature.
	The president of the Senate in recom-
mending Mrs. Pardee for secretary of the
Senate, said “I recommend Mrs Pardee by
reason of her fitness for the place. I con-
sider her work in the committee rooms
fully up to the standard of any man’s’'
	In private life Mrs. Pardee is womanly
and unassuming in manner. She has un-
doubtedly a career of brilliance and useful-
ness bofore her.”


OBITUARIES.

	To the memory of our beloved sister Sophia
Hansen, who died at American Fork Jan. 18, 1896.
	Karen Sophia Hansen was born June 26. 1841
in Denmark. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints when a child. Emigrated to
Utah 1856, crossing the plains with ox teams.
Joined the Relief Society in its early days.


[Column 1]
	She was the mother of seven children, three of
whom died in their infancy. She was an active
member of the Relief Society, having filled the
office of teacher for 15 years.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
take away our beloved sister to a higher sphere,
therefore, be it 
	Resolved that we, the members of the Relief
Society do esteem her faithfulness and diligence,
and we express an earnest hope that this great
bereavement may be over-ruled for good and,
	Resolved that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children who are deprived
of the care of the beloved mother.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family also that it be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and one be entered on the
records of the Society.
ELLEN D. CLARKE 		}
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,	} COMMITTEE.
CHARLOTTE SHELLEY. 	}
	SISTER SUSANNAH M. MORTENSEN was born in
Brigham City, May 12th, 1857. Died January 29th
1896, after an illness of one month. She was a
faithful worker in the different associations from
her childhood, having held responsible positions
in the Sunday School and Primary Association. At
the time of her death she held the position of
teacher and treasurer of the Relief Society, Coun-
selor to the President of the Scandinavian Society
of Brigham City, and also one of the aids in the
Primary Association.
	Sister Mortensen was beloved by ail who knew
her; she was a friend to the poor, ever ready to
minister to their wants in any possible way. It
was a pleasure to visit her home for all was peace
and love. For several years previous to the death
of her father, she lived with him. She was untiring
in her care and devotion, sacrificing much for his
comfort. She leaves a husband and three child-
ren besides a host of relatives and friends to
mourn her departure.
	Since God in his infinite wisdom and mercy has
seen fit to remove to another sphere of action, our
respected and beloved sister, Susannah M. Mor-
tensen,
	We her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, a
devoted wife, a wise mother; and filled all the
different positions to which she was called in an
exemplary manner.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to her bereaved family.
	Resolved that her memory shall ever be held
in loving remembrance by her fellow laborers.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon record in the Second Ward Relief
Society, a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent
and a copy sent to her family.
	CHARLOTTE BODEN, President
	ROXEY L. BLACKBURN, Sec.
	LUNA SQUIRS			}
	ALICE N. ROSENBAUM,	} Committee.

	DIED at Lyman, Fremont Co, Idaho. March
15th, 1896, after an illness of five days.
	Brighamina Christenson, beloved wife of
Neils Christenson, and daughter of Mary Ann
and Christen Christenson, born in Denmark,
Jan. 13, 1867, came to Utah 1878, married Jan. 22,
1885, in the Logan Temple. She was an
exemplary woman, patient, loving and kind, be-
ing a teacher in the Relief Society, and Second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. which callings she 
	honorably fulfilled.
She lived a pure life and died in full fellow-
ship and faith, hoping to have a glorious ressurec-
tion. 

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	The following resolutions were gotten up by
the Relief Society in loving remembrance of
Sister Brighamina Christenson.
	Resolved, that we honor and cherish her many
virtues, peace and charity covered her as a mantle
and beamed from her countenance. We
acknowledge the hand of God in our loss. Her
charms endeared her to us all and we shall miss
her in our meetings. We tender our sympathy
to the bereaved husband and parents.
	Resolved that a copy of this resolution be
placed on file in our Record book and a copy be
sent to the Exponent for publication, and a copy
sent to her husband. E.A.
Deseret News, Please copy.
	Rest in peace dear Mina,
Your work is nobly done,
	Life’s battle has been fought,
Eternal peace well won.

[Column 2]
Although we miss you sadly,
	Since your parting gives us pain;
We are reconciled in knowing,
	Our loss is heaven’s gain. 
O! Yes, we will think of thee,
	For many years to come;
Thy smiling face we ne’er shall see,
	For God has called thee home.
ELIZABETH ATKINSON, President.
ANNA OLSEN,		}
HANNAH ROBISON, 	}Committee.
SUSAN E. THOMPSON}


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

WIMLEY—At the residence of Jessie W. Fox,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, at 5. 45 p. m.
Jan. 17,1896, of general debility, alter a lingering
illness of less than two months. Sister Amanda
Melviria Wimley, daughter of Samuel and Eliza-
beth Brooks Baker, of Pennsylvania.
	Sister Wimley was born in Philadelphia, Pa.,
July 3,1820, and was in her 76th year at the time
of her death. She embraced the Gospel under
tne instructions and ministrations of the prophet
Joseph Smith, in Philadelphia, Pa, at an early day.
She was married to Mr. Wm. Wimley in Phila-
delphia and bore to him a son and a daughter;
the latter survives her mother and resides at their
old home. Mr. Wimley, finding his wife to be a
firm adherent to the faith, and that she could not
be happy away from the Saints, furnished her
means in the spring of 1870, and she came to this
city, where she has resided ever since. She for-
sook a home of luxury and joined her destiny
with this people. She has ever been true to the
principles she espoused. Numbers of Elders can
testify of her hospitality, while all the Saints who
knew her cannot fail to revere her memory.

ANOTHER noble life is spent,
	Another life.of sacrifice.
A life that knew what sorrow meant,
	Yet walked in ways of righteousness. 
Who can tell of the lonely years
	Through which she	passed with patient trust:
Ah! Who can tell her hopes and fears?
	And yet we know that God is just.
But we can tell that grief, and pain
	Did fit her for her after life;
And too we know hopes are not vain
	For she has gone where hopes are rife.
Where faith and hope, and love reach out
	To gather all within the fold
Until each heart is linked about,
	With bands more pure than purest gold. -
Rest, noble spirit, rest be thine,
	Until thy soul is satisfied
And then come forth in joy divine
	To dwell with beings sanctified.
Then thou shalt stand like Joseph's sheaf 
	To which his brothers all did bend;
Where none shall question thy belief,
	And joys supernal never end.
	RUTH M. FOX.


LOVELL BROTHERS & Co., New York,
have in press a novel by a new writer, en-
titled “The Woman and the World,” that
promises to command more than ordinary
attention. The story is well conceived,
forcibly written, and abounds in sage re-
flections on the social disorders of the age,
interwoven in the web of romance. It is
the work of a writer who is in close touch
with the world, and is rich in hits at the
political and social conditions that prevail
in American society, with its feverish race
for wealth and position, and defiance of in-
dividual rights. Love, intrigue, marriage
and divorce are its chief themes, with oc-
casional comment levelled at political
corruption, the money power and its men-
ace.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FARMER.

	ALLOW me to ask, how is the farmer
appreciated to-day? I well remember
about 65 years ago, I looked upon the far-
mer as the most independent man of the
human family; not only so, but the most
God like.
	The farmer’s care was to feed and clothe
and provide for those under his care: not
only his family, but his horses and cattle
as well as the feathered tribe must be
sheltered and preserved from the stormy
weather. His whole time and attention
was given in looking after the living beings.
All his care was in looking after that which
had life and seeing that it was in a progres-
sive state. This to me was charming, and
I shall never forget the impression made
upon my mind at that time.
	Now I am 77 years of age, but when I
look back upon those days I feel the same
impression, and ask myself is not this God
like.
	But during the last 50 years and more,
we have been so much captivated by the
arts and sciences, yes, perfectly charmed by
them, that we gaze with wonder and amaze-
ment and ask what comes next. Yes, the
photographs taken so quickly and when
colored they look so like, a child might say,
wait a moment and they will speak to us.
	And again the machinery propelled by
steam and electricity, is also wonderful
and do not we enjoy a ride on the cars when
propelled by electricity? Yes indeed and
I sometimes ask when will that person
come who will navigate the air as Isaiah
saw, when he, in speaking of the gathering
of Isreal, he said "They came like doves to
their windows.” Will not this remind us

[Column 2]
that all this is preparing us for a still great-
er event which is prophecied will come in
its own time.
	Now when contemplating all this, are we
not in danger of saying surely the gods
have come down to earth. But stop a mo-
ment, for those who read the scriptures
and believe the prophecies can see dearly
all this is in the program, and much more.
	Then let us be awake to our duty and
learn our lessons, giving strict heed to the
laws given by our Lord and Master Jesus,
the Savior of mankind. Then nothing
seems wonderful to us, any more than it
did to the disciples of Jesus, when they saw
Him turn water into wine, or call the ele-
ments together which served to increase the
loaves and fishes.
	Please read the Acts of the Apostles, and
we find that in being obedient to the laws
given by the Savior, they had this same
spirit given to them and by it they did the
same things. You may ask who can do
this to-day, and if not why? I will say I
know of those who have given strict heed
to those laws or lessons as you may choose
to call them, and they never fail to get a
knowledge for themselves, yet must not
boast of it, as Jesus often cautioned them
saying, “See thou tellest no man of it.”
Then the tempter will show us what he
can do and thus confuse our minds. Ac-
cordingly we need wisdom as King Solo-
mon said, “In all thy gettings get wisdom.
Strength and power are hers etc.” Is not
this life a school and is there not an oppo.
site in all things? We were sent to this
school to learn both; accordingly we need
wisdom to give each its proper value and
also its proper place. This is the faith of,
	M. E. K.


DR. MAGGIE C SHIPP
WILL commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing, on Monday, April
20, 1896. Tuition $50.00.
	Reduction made to Relief Societies when
more than one student is sent from the
same Stake.
	Office and residence 24 W. North Temple
Telephone 383

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

	DR. E. R. SHIPP’S CLASSES.

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp will open her school
of Obstetrics on Tuesday April 21st.
Because of the growing demand for
efficient nurses and competent accoucheurs,
the Doctor will devote more of her time to
this class of instruction. She has made
special prices to societies who are engaged
in philanthropic work.
Those desiring to study should communi-
cate to Dr. Shipp at 18 Main St. either
personally or by letter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.  

VOL. 24.	SALT LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  MAY 1, 1896 No. 23


CONTENTS:

	Sericulture. An Important Industry—Margaret
A. Caine. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp. In Edu
cating The Head Don’t Forget To Clothe The
Heart—Dr. Elvira Stevens Barney. Women In
Office—Ex. A Tribute Of Love—Mary A. P.
Hyde. Food For Thought—Zion’s Convert.
In memoriam. Obituaries. Sappho—E. B.W.
	EDITORIAL:—Suffrage In The West. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Too Late—H. Myrtle And Violets
—R. M. F. The Arbor Tree—Louise. Evening
Thoughts—Lydia D. Alder. Give Happiness.


[Column 1]
TOO LATE.

The golden rays of the setting sun,
	Through a rifting cloudland glare,
And linger lovingly on the heads,
	Of a youth and maiden fair.

He was noble, good, with manly mien,
	That foretold his life to be;
Sweet womanly virtues she possessed,
	God-given and rare to see.

No thought had they that their childood joys,
	Would flee with the passing day;
That life henceforth was reality,
 	The past but a sweet dream lay.

The fading lights throw their mellow beams,
	Far out o’er the distant land.
While the dark’ning twilight nearer draws,
	Where they still in silence stand.

Anon from the tranquil scene, his gaze
	Wandered to her upturned face;
In his tender glance and softened tone,
	Was the old, ‘‘old story’s’’ trace.

He loved her; and though in years his life
	Was young and as yet unknown;
But within his breast a man’s heart beats,
	And the flower of love was blown.

No whisper falls on her list’ning ear,
	Of the truth that lies concealed;
For her heart unconscious sleeps, nor knows
	The sweet secret unrevealed.

The parting words were quietly said,
	That took him far from her side;
And life traveled on its old sweet way,
	No thought for what might betide.

Years had passed since that fair summer day,
	When they watched the setting sun;
Years that had left their unerring mark,
	Yet many a vict’ry won.

No change had come to his constant heart,
	Though long days had come and gone;
His love had grown strong, and pure, and deep,
	While her heart still slumbered on.

“Arrested for crime!” The papers ran,
	The news spread quick as a glance; 
He lay that night in a prison cell,
	A victim of circumstance.

Held by the law for a deed most vile,
	That another’s hand had done;
But his heart was pure, his hands unsoiled, .
	And his guilt believed by none.

Only one night, but the sad mistake ,
	Had his fair name stigmatized,
And rendered his hopes of future bliss,
	But vain dreams unrealized.

[Column 2]
And she? A night of utter darkness 
	Took the place of sunny day.
When the gloom of that unkind story,
	Threw its shadow ’cross her way.

How often affliction’s hand must, turn
	The course of a loving heart,
And bridge the gulf of indifference.
	That holds it from love apart.

At last the star that should light her way,
	Has risen in clouds of despair;
Its dim rays fall on her lonely path,
	Like spectres so grim and bare.

Often to him her yearning heart longed
	Sweet words of hope to impart;
But his wounded pride forbade him speak,
	And they drifted still apart.

Alas, for the life that weary waits,
	For the joys that never come;
For the soul that starves for love’s caress,
	Whose lips are forever dumb.

A gloomy shroud of deathlike silence,
	Chased the light of glor’ous day,
Without a sorrow-laden chamber,
	Where she lonely dying lay.

She had waited long and patiently,
	For the words that never came—
Only a symbol that proved to her,
	That he still remained the same.
 
Sweet hope that once shone o’er her pathway,
	Now lies dead within her breast;
While oft the pale lips plantive murmur,
 	“Love, why thus my heart oppress?’’

But no answ’ring echo reached her ear,
	Her anguished heart to console.
Like a tender flower, storm-tossed and bruised,
	She has reached the heav’nly goal.

Softly the tread of a footstep falls,
	Without the death-chamber door,
He has hopeful come, his love to tell,
	And to count their parting o’er.

His passionate cry meets no response,
	As he kneels beside the cot;
Unheeded now his agonized words,
	“Come back, dear heart, leave me not."

Too late he has come with tales of love,
	To that still heart pleads in vain;
Too late he knows, that his selfish pride,
	His life’s dearest hope has slain.
April 30, 1896.	H.


[Column 1]
MYRTLE AND VIOLETS.
’TWAS only an old, faded letter,
	With some violets, pressed between
The folds that were yellow and broken,
	And a sprig of myrtle yet green.
But ’twas breathing of love and springtime,
	Of fields where the primroses grew,
Where buttercups, cowslips and daises,
	Were mingled with violets blue.
Which often in childhood they gathered,
	And under the sweet-scented May.
That so thickly clung to the hawthorne,
	He decked her with garlands so gay.
Sometime too in childish amazement
	They had gazed on the distant hill;
Where giants with eyes big as saucers
	So they said, were roaming at will.

[Column 2]
This letter had no thought of sorrow,
	Nor the slightest breath of a care:
But a glimpse of a rosy future,
	To which Eden alone could compare.
Ah! Well she remembered its coming,
	Why, only a short time ago,
She anxiously watched for the postman,
	So eager its contents to know.
It read, “you’re the best and the dearest,
	When, Oh when! will you name the day?
Your will shall be always my pleasure,
	Your life one long morning of May.”
Was ever a maiden so happy,
	Was ever a letter like this,
Or ever a future that promised,
	Such joy and such unceasing bliss? 
And Will was so tall and so handsome,
	His heart was so tender and true,
His strong arm would always protect her,
	“Good gracious my man is that you?”
“Why Susan I’ve come to my dinner;
	Don’t you hear the clock striking one,
And I’m in a hurry and hungry;
	For my work you know must be done.
I stopped to pick you these violets;
	The first in the meadow I’ve seen,
And here is a wee bit of myrtle,
	That through the long winter kept green.
They took me way back to our childhood;
	Why wife there’s a tear in your eye,
And you know I cannot be happy
	When you have a tear or a sigh.”
“Ah William you’ll have to excuse me;
	I’m sorry that dinner is late:
But you see, I found an old letter—
	Well here, let me give you a plate!
And I had forgotten the dinner,
	Indeed I was thinking of you;
When you had not yet reached the twenties;
	And now you are seventy-two.
I’d forgotten we had been married
	Pretty well on to fifty years;
Yes, I had forgotten our sorrows,
	Aye, even forgotten our tears.”
I did not remember the struggle
	We had that our babes might have bread:
How I felt when I thought I had lost you, 
	When the neighbors said you were dead!
Our children are wedded and settled:
	And I had forgotten their birth,
I remembered not the two darlings
	We laid deep, in the damp, cold earth.
For the time my mem’ry deceived me,
	I was living over again;
The days when we romped in the meadows,
	Or wandered through the green lane.
And William I know I’m provoking.
	But while reading that long-treasured note;
I forgot how terrible angry
	You were when I wanted to vote.
You’ve always been kind to me husband,
	But that was a puzzler for you;
When you found, expressed by the ballot,
	Sometimes our opinions were two.
But after all’s said we are here Will,
	Devoted as lovers could be;
And though our lives have been checkered,
	We still can look forward and see—


The future you wrought in my letter,
	All tinged with a glorious sun;
For William the end is approaching,
	And soon the great battle is won.
And, if the father should call me first dear,
	To cross over the dark ravine;
You’ll place in my hands lying folded,
	Some violets and myrtle so green.
	R.M.F.


146 	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

SERICULTURE.

AN ACT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF SERI-
CULTURE IN THE STATE OF UTAH.

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State
of Utah.
	Section I. That for the term of ten years
after the passage of this Act, there shall be
paid out of the State treasury to any cor-
poration, firm or person engaged in the pro-
duction of cocoons of the silk worm in this
State, a bounty of twenty-five cents for each
pound of cocoons produced in the State, un-
der the conditions of this Act.
	Sec. 2 No bounty shall be paid for co-
coons not produced by worms fed entirely
upon the leaves of the mulberry tree, nor
shall more than two thousand dollars be
paid for bounties under the provisions of
this Act in any one year.
	Sec. 3. All claimants shall, from time to
time, as the board may prescribe, file verifi-
ed statements with said board, showing the
quantity and quality of the cocoons for
which bounty is claimed, the place and
county where and the conditions under
which the cocoons are produced, including
the species, and eggs produced, together
with any other information required by said
board to enable them to make and preserve
a complete and reliable record of the pro-
gress of silk culture in the State’
	Sec. 4. The Governor shall appoint a
committee to be known as the Utah Silk
Commission, to consist of five persons, not
more than three of whom shall be of the
same political party, who shall serve with-
out compensation, and who shall hold their
office until their successors are appointed
and qualified. The members of said com-
mission shall, except in the case of those
first appointed, hold their office for five
years, and until their successors are appoint-
ed and qualified. Those first appointed
shall hold office for one, two, three, four and
five years respectively, and until their suc-
cessors are appointed and qualified, the
length of time each appointee shall serve to
be stated by the Governor at the time of the
appointment of said commission. Each
member of said commission shall give a
bond, running to the State with sureties to
be approved by the Secretary of State, in
the sum of one thousand dollars condition-
ed for the faithful performance of the duties
of the office. The Governor shall have
power to fill any vacancy that may occur in
said commission.
	It shall be the duty of said commission
or its duly appointed representatives, to ex-
amine all cocoons for which bounty is
claimed, and after such examinations to
render a statement under oath to the Secre-
tary of State, showing the quantity, grade
and quality of the cocoons upon which
bounty shall be paid, and the name of the
party or corporation entitled thereto.
	Sec. 5. It shall also be the duty of said
commission to cause to be published, in
book or pamphlet form, explicit instructions

[Column 2]
in all the practical branches of sericulture,
for free distribution to the people of the
State; also to provide instructions in reeling
in each county raising one hundred pounds
of cocoons; to provide reliable eggs; and in
every way encourage those engaged in this
industry, and provide the best possible mar-
ket for reeled silk and cocoons uutil it can
be consumed by manufacturers in our
State.
	It shall also be the duty of this commis-
sion to render an annual report to the Secre-
tary of State.
	Sec. 6. For the purposes mentioned in
Sections 4 and 5 of this Act, the said com-
mission may use such sum as they may
deem requisite, and not to exceed the sum
of one thousand dollars in any one year.
	Sec. 7. The sum of three thousand dol-
lars per year, out of any moneys now in, or
which may hereafter come into the treasury,
excluding all school moneys, or so much
thereof as maybe necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Act, is hereby appropriat-
ed for the purposes of this Act. The audit-
or shall draw his warrant upon the treasur-
er in favor of the person or persons entitled,
upon the certificate, showing a compliance
with the provisions of this Act.
	Sec. 8. Any person who shall knowing-
ly swear falsely to any matter or statement
in any section of this Act, shall be guilty of
perjury.
	The Secretary of State in his discretion
may, at any time require the statements of
claimants to be supported by the affidavits
of other persons having a knowledge of the
facts.
	Sec. 9. This Act shall take effect upon
its approval.
	Approved April 4, 1896.


AN IMPORTANT INDUSTRY.

	THERE is no doubt but all those who
have been in the past interested in silk, are
aware of the fact that a bill for the estab-
lishment of sericulture in Utah, was passed
by the last Legislature, and will make
themselves familiar with the provisions of
the bill. The Commission appointed are
very anxious to have just as much work
done as possible this year. The season for
raising cocoons is now upon us, and we
have decided the most we will be able to do
this year, will be to publish in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT, some instructions to
those wishing to commence work at once.
	We are also prepared to furnish a limited
amount of eggs to those who wish them.
Persons desiring to obtain eggs from the
Commission, will write at once to Mar-
gar t A. Caine, 732 S., 5th East, Salt Lake
City, and state the number of trees, and
age of the trees from which they can obtain
leaves; also the number of persons they ex-
pect to have assist them in the work. If
you are not a subscriber for the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, we will send you the papers
containing information which will be of use
to you.
	The establishment of this industry will
also bring a new work for the Horticultur-
ists, as the raising of the best varity of mul-
berry trees will in the future be a very im-
portant matter. For the present old trees
should be well trimmed to cause the leaves
to grow thicker upon the branches, and
contain much more of the essential proper-
ties, than by letting them remain in the old
bushy state. In some parts of the State,


there is still time to set out slips; so that in 
a few years we will have thousands of new
trees growing in all parts of the State. We
are very sorry to hear of the damage done
by frost in the Southern part of the State,
but still hope the people of that part may
raise an encouraging crop of silk this year.
We will be pleased to give any information
to parties communicating with us, that will
assist them in raising silk.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club, was held at the office of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, March 31, 1896,
E.B. Wells presiding. Opened with pray-
er by C C. R. Wells, Roll call answered
by sentiments. The Secretary read the
Minutes which were approved. Miscellan-
eous business was next in order, and the
name of Miss S. L. Monroe was presented
and unanimously accepted as a member of
the Club. A letter from the Utah Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs was then read as-
signing the topic for the Annual Meeting,
the subject being “What some clubs are
doing in the east.” The President ex-
plained the Federation,its origin and object,
for the benefit of the new members. An
invitation was read from Mrs. L. S. Dickin-
son to the Club, to hold their next meeting
at her residence. It was moved and carried
that we accept the invitation with thanks.
Dr. Curtis then recited an original poem in
a very pleasing manner; this poem being
dedicated to the ladies of the U. W. P. C.
	This was followed by a paper, “George
on Jefferson,” by Henry George, relating
to the Single Tax. This was followed by
an interesting discussion in which the mem-
bers took part.
	Pres. E. B. Wells gave her idea on the
single tax question, saying, it is a tax on
land according to its value, it is growing in
favor and may, perhaps, eventually prevail;
but it does not constitute all the knowledge
of politics we need. Large land owners
object to single tax—lands valued by their
location, and not by their buildings.—The
one permanent idea is to exempt labor and
put the burden on the wealthy land owners,
because the present status shows the small
land owners to be at the mercy of those who
own large sections of land. Single tax
prevents the former class evading taxation.
President Brigham Young’s idea was for
every one to own a small amount of land
and cultivate the small buildings. The one
question arises: “Is single tax unconstituti-
onal?”
	The Secretary then read a chapter on
parliamentary law, followed by discussion.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde made a motion which
was carried, that the President appoint the
delegate to the federation. The President
then appointed Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to repre-
sent the Utah W. P. C. and to report the
year’s work. Laura Hyde, Pearl Rus-
sell Olea Shipp and Edith Rossiter to
serve on the committee for refreshment and
decorations. The appointment of the lady
to give the paper at the Federation was
postponed till the business meeting on the
15th of April. Adjournment was next in
order benediction was pronounced by Maria
W. Wilcox.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ARBOR TREE.

On the school-grounds gathered
	On a smiling April day; 
Teachers, friends and scholars,
	All in holiday array.
There a little tree they planted,
	Straight and tall and slim,
Pretty verses there they chanted,
	As its roots they covered in.
Through the spring the children watched it,
	Watched its tiny leaves unfold,
And eagerly they guarded it,
	From all dangers manifold.
For they loved this tree they planted
	And they longed to have it be,
Free from every mark or blemish,
	A stately, perfect tree.
That to them ’twould be a symbol,
	Of a life upright and true,
To their hearts a happy memory,
	Of the childhood that they knew.
And this the tree the children planted
	Grew both beautiful and strong 
Like a sentinel it guarded,
	The happy childish throng. 
But the years bring many changes
	And as the children had to part
With the school friends and the school days,
	So dear to every heart.
The dear old tree remained there,
	Through the years that come and go, 
Through the springtime with its verdure, 
	Through the winter with its snow.
Ever watching o’er the children,
	As they play beneath its shade,
Ever listening to the childish vows,
	And the many games they played.
Oh may this tree forever,
	Through the years that come and go,
Be spared from wind and weather,
	From the woodman’s fatal blow. 
And live on and on forever,
	A mighty tree to be,
And children always love to gather,
	’Neath our own dear Arbor Tree.
	LOUISE.


[Column 1]

EVENING THOUGHTS.

THE twilight gently deepens
	The stars shine one by one;
The sun’s last fading rays,
	Proclaim the day is done.
The loving kine wend homeward
	Along the dusty way;
The song birds trill their faintest notes—
	It is the close of day.
The silver moon ascends the sky,
	And softly beams her light;
O’er all the world majestic sails
	This glorious Queen of night. 
Hushed are the sounds of men—
	A peace broods over all,
Save now and then the night birds scream
	Sounds to its mate a call.
O, peaceful eve, O, holy hush
	That comes when the day is done,
To soothe the spirit’s restlessness 
	With communings all its own. 
The thoughts of earth now fade
	To the unknown world they soar:
And long to fashion the mystery
	Of the life that went before.

[Column 2]
In which of the shining planets
	Did I have primeval birth?
And what of the days forgotten
	Before the scenes of earth.
The stars for answer twinkle
	In the vaulted space of blue;
And cluster there in bands of gold.
	Their boundaries hid from view.
How the throbbing heart beats faster
	And sighs for the far away;
O', where are the gorgeous sunsets
	That charmed us yesterday?
All life’s today, yesterday
	Or that which is to come;
The sunsets flow with changing light
	When every day is done.
The evening shades now darken
	But the song of the Whippoor-will
Far away to the mountain
	Brings to my heart a thrill.
There is a life beyond the shadows
	A life beyond the stars!
Else, where did I hear the music
	With no discordant bars?
O, we yearn for the life Immortal
	As we long for the close of day;
When with weary, heavy eyelids
	We are fainting by the way.
Oh! Does the sun’s last setting
	And the shadows that come with the night
Remind us that we are but mortal
	Not always to walk by sight?
Away from the bright starry heavens
	I turn to the homes of earth; 
With a feeling of utter nothingness
	And how of little worth.
The fire-flies are now on the wing,
	As I loiter by the way;
They brighten the pathway before me,
	With colors both varied and gay.
Ah! Well we can go no farther
	For God has willed it so;
But sometime when the finite is ended
	We’ll the vast and the Infinite know.
LYDIA D. ALDER
	Read before the conjoint meeting of the Y. L,
& M. I. A. of First and Second Wards Feb. 18,
1896.


IN EDUCATING THE HEAD DON'T
FORGET TO CLOTHE THE HEART.

	“A man is known by the company he
keeps” or we may say it is the association
that corrects or demoralizes the man. Fur-
ther, a man or a people can be measured by
the way their time and powers are spent.
For proof of it we only have to look about
us and we can see the fulfillment of this in
every individual in their upward course to
success or their downward course to failure.
	I heard a person say that people were
known by the clothes that they wear. It 
seemed hard at that time, for an unfortu-
nate poor person to be thus judged; but that
saying is filled with more or less signifi-
cance; for industry, perseverance, economy
of time, labor and means, brings happiness,
health and wealth. But indolence, extrav-
agance and recklessness, result in poverty,
drunkenness and crime.
	As the outer man, so is the inner. The
external is an imprint of the internal. If
the heart is filled with graces, clothed with
charity, faith and the love of God, a care
for others will be exhibited in their acts,
there will be manifested the true nature of
the being, which is the unfolding of the in-


ternal. Thus we are bound to acknowledge,
by the laws of cause and effect, that God
abides in the individual, because he ob-
serves the laws of God. Thus man or
mortality approaches nearer to divinity.
	Our culture should be continuous; if so
we are morally enriched, and a knowledge
of this fact once obtained, stimulates further
exertion; as the individual has discovered a.
previously hidden mystery,—that the bitter
in his organism is being supplanted by some-
thing more beautiful and desirable. The
child first moves by instinct, but it requires
constant watching, thought and growth, to
develop the God-like man.
	Law is the first and grand principle by
which man is protected temporally and spir-
tually. If we transgress the laws of na-
ture, sickness is liable to be the result. If
we transgress the laws of God, we meet his
displeasure or disapproval, and if His spirit
is withdrawn from us as Paul said “We are
of all men most miserable.” Our spirit
has then lost luster, hope is defered, the
law has been broken, and discouragement
is the result, because His teachable spirit
had departed. Disparagement is not al-
ways a hopeless condition. Great results have
been achieved when apparently all hope
was lost, because some condition had awak-
ened or stimulated fresh courage, and faith,
a living moving principle to all action, still
existed in the heart, and we learn, by it
worlds were formed. It is the principle
upon which God moves and man is sustain-
ed.
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.


WOMEN IN OFFICE.

	 GAYLORD, Smith county, Kansas, is the
second city in Kansas to pass under control
of women exclusively. The city govern-
ment was turned over recently to the fol-
lowing officers: Mayor, Mrs. Antionette
Haskell, Police Judge, Mrs. Mary Foote.
Members of the Council—Mrs. Martha
Johnson, Mrs. Luella Abercrombie, Mrs.
Emma Mitchell, Mrs. Mary White and Mrs.
Nancy Wright. Miss Florence Headley
was appointed City Clerk and Mrs. M. J
Cline, City Marshal. This is Mrs Haskell’s
second term as Mayor, and she performed
her duties so satisfactorily a complete wo-
man’s Council was elected this year. Mrs.
Haskell is a Democrat, but the ticket was
not elected on party lines, the members of
the Council being about evenly divided be-
tween Republicaan and Populists. Ex.


GIVE HAPPINESS.

GIVE happiness. What if thy heart be sad?
Dry thine own eyes to wipe another’s tears.
In this good world there are so many biers
Carried by souls in blackest raiment clad,
Souls dazed by desolation and half-mad,
Mourning their dead—dead hopes; dead joys,
	dead years—
Blind to the star that every midnight cheers, 
Deaf to the song that makes each morning glad.
Give spicy blooms where flowers never grow, 
	Give food where starving hearts fight fate’s 
	decree,
Give rest where tired hands and feet drag slow,
	Give sight to eyes too full of tears to see,
Give music where sweet trumpets never blow,
	Give happiness, and joy shall garment thee.
—Emma C. Dowd, in the Congregationalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis
p unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M, I. Business hours from
to 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class.matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY, 1, 1896.


SUFFRAGE IN THE WEST

	THE agitation of woman suffrage in Cali-
fornia, Arizona and Idaho, is attracting
much attention and comment throughout
the several states that have taken an active
part in the questions of the day. In Cali-
fornia particularly there is a regular cam-
paign going on at the present time and Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Anna H. Shaw,
Miss Yates' Miss Hay, Miss Mills and Lucy
E. Anthony are working vigorously to se-
cure the amendment to the Constitution
which shall give suffrage to women, mak-
ing them eligible to vote and hold office in
the State of California.
	The Amendment will be submitted to the
voters in November, 1896; if it receives a
majority of votes cast thereon at that elec-
tion, it will be a part of the Constitution
without further proceedings. Meantime
the State is being thoroughly awakened,
and suffrage sentiment is in the air, and be-
ing wafted broadcast as never before on the
Pacific Coast, and in every nook and cor-
ner of the State.
	Mrs. Laura M. Johns has been doing
good work in organizing and speaking in
Arizona, and will be here now very soon
on her way to Idaho. Mrs. Diggs will join
her in Idaho, and the two will make a very
strong team, both are such ardent advocates
and such eloquent speakers, and are so well
adapted to public work of this sort, that the
cause must be greatly benefited, and nu-
merous converts made by means of their
logical arguments.
	To secure planks in the party platforms
Miss Anthony declares is one of her hobbies,
and it is certainly a great advantage gained,
for when once a plank is introduced it is
pretty sure to be voted upon, men will
not usually go back upon the platform they
had sustained publicly.
	In Utah the struggle is over, there is to
be sure, educational work to do among the
people generally, and wisdom is needed as
well as knowledge that the advantages
gained be used for the good of the common-
wealth and no individual caprice or am-
bitious desire for power or the spoils of
office ought to be allowed to creep in and
usurp the place of conscience and beguile
women into doing that which may seem
expedient but which is not straight-forward,
each woman should as far as possible in-
vestigate for herself and be sure she is right
and honest in politics, as well as in other
matters which pertain to one's well-being.
	It is well when doubtful on a subject to


give one’s self the benefit of the doubt, and
wait to be fully convinced before taking any
step that will be regretted afterwards.
	Certainly it is not expected women will
not make any mistakes, but it is right to
anticipate some good results from the new
element infused into the politics of the new
state. All the women (and possibly many
men) are watching the women voters of
Utah with greater interest, we are told upon
good authority, than they watched the wo-
men of Wyoming and Colorado. There-
fore it behooves Utah women to set a good
example to the women of the other states.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Presidents of the state organizations
of Relief Society in all the Stakes of Zion
are urgently requested to prepare a com-
plete list of their Stake officers, and also of
the Presidents and Secretaries of each ward
in the respective Stake, with Post Office ad-
dresses of each person and forward to this
office for publication. These lists will be
carefully arranged and printed in the
Deseret News; since the request was made
at the Relief Society Conference in April,
two or three lists have been forwarded, but
it is essential that all should be given with-
out further delay. Presidents will also
please state at what time their Stake Con-
ferences are held. Address these com-
munications to E. B. Wells, Office WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE setting apart of a day for the plant-
ing of trees, is no less poetical than it is im-
portant, and the observance of this day by
the public schools has a tendency to elevate
the children’s minds with, regard to the use
and the beauty of trees. The season this
year was most unfavorable for out door ex-
ercises by the schcool children, as the day
—the fifteenth of April—was very stormy
and disagreeable however indoor exercises
appropriate to the occasion were held,
though the pretty idea of planting a tree
had to be postponed. In some of the dis-
tricts the trustees set a later day and the full
program was carried out, and very delight-
ful exercises were held in the Fortieth Dis-
trict where the three schools—the Fortieth,
the Waterloo and the Morse—met at the
first named school house, and held their
exercises conjointly on the school grounds.
The music, the essays, the addresses by
Superintendent Van Cott and Mr. Betts
and the class recitations by the children,
were very much enjoyed and after the ex-
ercises a fine Box Elder Tree was planted
on the school grounds, the children all
promising to guard and tend it. As an ex-
ample of the benefit the children derive
from this simple practice, a little girl of
eleven summers recited a poem of her own
composition. It was her remembrance of the
planting of the Arbor tree the previous
year, and the impression it made upon her,
and we take great pleasure in publishing
the childish verses on another page.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

(To the memory of Sister Minerva W. Snow.)
Dear Exponent:
	I wish to say a few words in commem-
oration of my dear departed friend and
Counselor, Sister Minerva W. Snow, whose
sudden death occurred in less than two
weeks after our meeting together in our
Relief Society Stake Conference, held at


Moroni, March 21, on which occassion she
spoke with much fervency, feeling a deep
interest in the spiritual as well as temporal
welfare of the association.
	We became acquainted in the early days
of the Nauvoo experiences, and had the
privilege of learning from the Prophet's
own lips, many valuable truths, which
were sacred and life-giving; which never
departed from us, but enabled us to hold
sweet communion together, especially in the
hour of trial, which was more precious than
worldly honors. We also received instruc-
ions on the principle of celestial, or plural
marriage which he established before his
death; which testimony he sealed with his
blood. I witnessed his departure from Nau-
voo when he said: "I go as a lamb to the
slaughter, but am calm as a summer morn-
ing."
	After the exodus from Nauvoo, we settled
in Salt Lake City for a time, when her hus-
band, Apostle Erastus Snow, was called to 
preside in St. George, Washington Co., and
Sister Minerva Snow was appointed to pre-
side over the Stake Relief Society, also to
labor in the Temple ordinances, after the
Temple at St. George was dedicated.
	About the same time that Brother Snow
was called, my husband, Apostle Orson
Hyde was appointed to preside in Sanpete
Stake. We kept up a correspondence, and,
as our Manti Temple was nearly completed,
I was called to labor in the St. George
Temple, where our friendly relations were
renewed; subsequently I returned to my
home in Sanpete.
	Circumstances have since transpired to
bring us together again. Having lost my
First Counselor, she was chosen to occupy
that position, which she filled ably for
several years.
	We left Moroni together, after our late
Relief Society Conference and spent the
night at Ephraim to visit our dear friend
and fellow laborer, Sister Sarah A. Peter-
son, she not having been able to attend our
Conference. We had a very pleasant visit
together, little thinking it would be the
last in company with each other. Sister
Minerva was ever true and faithful; always
the same, seeking to do good on all possible
occassions, and her name will be cherished
in fond remembrance by the young as
well as the old. She was chosen as an aid
to Sister Stena Willardson, President of the
Young Ladies' Stake Association, to whom
she was much attached, and with her labor-
ed for their growth in intelligence and use
ful knowledge.
	MARY A. P. HYDE


FOOD FOR THOUGHT.

	WHEN we contemplate what we are and
what we should be, we find that the mind
needs food as well as the body: and needs
plain substantial food, which will both re-
fresh and strengthen it.
	Where can it be found if not in the holy
scriptures. Here we find the thoughts,
the feelings and the trials of people who
lived in this fallen world many ages since,
yet their natures were the same as our own.
	I was impressed in early youth, by Bible
lessons which we found in our school books.
 What is more interesting than the history
of Joseph being sold into Egypt by his
brethren? Is not this food for thought; es-
pecially when you see an alwise ruler lead-
ing, guiding and controlling every event to


[Column 1]
benefit and preserve the precious child, un
til his father saw him again.
	Here we find him a wise counselor to the
king, able to interpret his dreams and save
his father’s house in time of famine. Such
food is beneficial to humanity; is it not?
	Then another, the King David, when
but a boy tending his father’s sheep. His
brother reproving him said: “Why did
you leave those sheep to come to see the
battle?” He replies, is there not a cause,
and in speaking of Goliah says “Shall he
defy the armies of the living God?” Not if
he could help it. And help it he did, as
you well know. Is not this food for thought
showing us what faithfulness and true in-
tegrity can do for the cause we are engaged
in, I think so.
	This was the food I enjoyed in my youth,
and took pleasure in reading the scriptures;
and now since I have heard the Gospel in
its fulness, and accepted its message, and
listened to its warning, I have greater joy
in the precious book, because I can see
more clearly and better understand our
Father’s designs and purposes concerning
the human family; and I must say now the
food seems better than at first.
	Do not we find the writings of all inspired
men, both ancient and modern, food for
thought; and after reading their history we
can notice from observation, the same re-
sults to-day, especially in reading the rise
and fall of nations; we find they rose when
pursuing an upright and honorable course,
dealing righteously with their fellow-man
but fell when they took the opposite course.
this produced the opposite effect, you know.
	Shall I ever forget the joy I felt when I
found this latter day work was exactly the
same that Jesus taught; also the same or-
ganization, the same gifts and graces. I
felt to exclaim, how could we be prepared for
the Millennium without it! I found it precious
food for the mind, and it ever has been
since that time, which was in the year
1842—I first heard the true and everlasting
Gospel in Oneida Co., N. Y. In 1843 I
went to Nauvoo III., and in 1844 attended
the funeral of the Prophet and his brother,
who were slain by the mob.
	I previously thought if he were slain, I
would lose my faith, but not so; I was much
stronger than ever. Did not Jesus and His
disiples lose their lives in this cause, and
many prophets like John the Baptist etc.
could we expect less?
	It is now over fifty years. I have not
time or space to tell you of the various trials
we have passed through in this time. But
one thing I will tell you is simply this;
when we acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in our trouble as Job did, when he said to
his wife “Has He not a right to chastise as
well as to bless?’’ Yes when we accept it as
a chastisement from God our Father, a
blessing always follows and we prosper
again. Now is not this food for thought?
	Only think of the time Gen. Johnston’s
Army came to Utah, expecting to fight; the
Lord gave us wisdom to defeat the army,
without a drop of bloodshed. Then we
were told we should be forgiven if we
would not hurt the army. Soon after they
were called home to fight in the rebellion of
the Southern States. Here their blood was
shed Gen. Johnston belonged to the South
and joined that side after his return.
	This reminds me of Daniel in the lion’s
den. He was saved but his enemies lost
their lives as they intended he should.
	Is not this food for thought; yes food

[Column 2]
which will teach us humility I think and an
earnest persevering zeal to love God, and
keep his commandments more perfectly.
 	Yet it has been prophesied that the time
will come when we will be tried by riches.
	It is now sixty-six years since the Church
was organized, and our trials have been
numerous. Some are anxious to be tried
by riches, but I am not. I prefer the pro-
phet’s prayer, who said “Give me neither
poverty or riches, but send me work and
comfort me, lest I be poor and steal and take
the name of my God in vain, or be rich and
deny Thee, and say who is the Lord.”
	We find in the Book of Mormon a profit-
able lesson on this subject; It is the his-
tory of the Nephites after the resurrection
of our Savior. These people had survived
the destruction which took place here at the
time of His crucifixion and felt to bless
God for their deliverance.—Only think of
the joy they felt upon seeing the Savior,
whose blood had been shed for them.
	He told them who he was and blessed
them, teaching them how to live to His
honor and glory; they listened and obeyed,
and their hearts rejoiced while keeping his
laws. Yes for three generations they were
prospered and blessed and became rich.
Then in the fourth generation they allowed
pride to take possession of their minds.
Then the good spirit left them, and envy,
hatred and malice proved their destruction.
Is not this food for thought?
	You will find this account in the 30th
book of Nephi, and on page 539 you find
Jesus last words (28th Chap.) to this peo-
ple.
	You will remember our Savior told his
disciples before his death saying “Woe be to
you when all the world speak well of you.”
Now only think that in 66 years we have
passed through many trials, and we are
now divided by politics, which causes an-
other struggle; yet our people feel comfort-
ed because the world at large are more
favorable towards the Mormons. Well
shall we become proud because of this, or
shall we not rather fear the tempter who
knows the weakness of our natures better
than we know them ourselves, and is ever
ready to trip our feet and cause us to fall?
But the precious Book of Mormon gives
us a word of comfort on this subject saying
these weaknesses were given us for a pur-
pose, for without them we would not be
humble. This is new food for thought, and
we find it ever so do we not?
	You know when pride and self-conceit
get the best of us, we are not content to
listen to counsel but go on until we find our
mistake, then we are humble and try again,
for dignity and self-respect will encourage
us to try again, and also to try with care
and caution lest we fall again
	Such is life, yet all things will work to-
gether for good to those who love God and
are called according to His purpose. This
St. Paul tells us.
	Again to-day in taking up the sacred
writings I find food for thought; in Section
90, 17th Verse of Doctrine and Covenants, it
reads thus; “Be not ashamed neither con-
founded, but be admonished in all your
high-mindedness and pride; for it bringeth
a snare upon your souls.” Also says “Set
your houses in order; keep slothfulness and
uncleanness far from you.”
	This we understand. We are not fit for
our Father’s Kingdom unless we are pure,
both mentally and physically pure.—We
must remember also that this high-minded-

[Column 3]
ness and pride bringeth a snare upon our
souls. Now I would ask how shall we de-
fine this. We know that dignity and self-
respect belong to the Deity. Did not our
Savior possess the dignity when He refused
every offer the tempter offered Him? Yet
He gained the victory by humility, even by
fasting and prayer, for forty days and
nights; is not this humility?
	Our Savior said when you pray say our
Father in heaven; Accordingly we believe
the Deity to be our Father, yet he is angry
with the wicked every day. Does He say
we shall not get angry? No He says “Be
angry and sin not.’’
	He then requires us to be patient and
trust the event in His hands, for He says
“Vengeance is mine, I will repay.” Here
we see He requires us to be humble and
have confidence in His promises, teaching
us, it is better to suffer wrong than to do
wrong. Then as obedient children let us
remember we are not to retaliate, knowing
they will be rewarded according to their
works, but we are not the ones to do it.
This is more food for thought.
	I think we find (if I understand the
scriptures correctly) that humility is the
spirit of the Gospel and pride the spirit of
the world and since we came here to learn
both is it not best to meet one at a time, to
become properly acquainted? We find
where both meet in contest, it creates such
confusion that we do not get acquainted
with either properly.
	We are of the earth earthy, and must
know the spirit of the world. Yet the
spirit of the Gospel will enable us to govern
and control that of the world; as the poet
says,
‘‘Govern your passions with absolute sway,
And grow wiser and better as life wears away.”
	And again since we are made in the
image of God, and have His attributes to a
greater or less extent, one would think we
would naturally incline to the good spirit.
Yes truly are not little children naturally
pure and good, so that our Savior blessed
them? Yes indeed, yet how long does it
take to learn the opposite when in company
with those whose whole soul is in the
world? not long. Then comes the struggle
of life to give each of those spirits its
proper value and its proper place.
	It takes a wise parent to do this; one who
has met the struggle himself, and has found
the rule of action given by our Savior the
only true course to pursue. It may well be
called the true riches, because it makes
happy homes, dutiful children and loving
parents. When we arrive at this state of
perfection, for such it is, then we can ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things
which brought us to this crisis; and re-
member the words of Jesus who said “If
you will keep my laws as I kept my Fath-
er’s laws, you shall share with me in my
glory.” Is not this food for thought, and
the right kind of food? Much might be
said upon this subject from scripture stand-
point.
	ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL EXCURSION.
TO CARDSTON CANADA.
	May 18th, the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge
Canada, the nearest railroad point to Cards-
ton. Fare for the round trip only $40.50.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.


WOMAN'S' EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Maria Jane Chaffin, beloved wife
of George E. Chaffin, and daughter of Moses
Wade and Mary Kirkbride Wade. She was born
Jan. 15, 1856, in Salt Lake City, died Feb. 22, 1896
in Teasdale, Wayne Co., Utah. She leaves a hus-
band and seven children, two daughters and five
sons, with many friends to mourn her departure
from this life, Our beloved sister was second
Counselor to the President of the Teasdale Relief
Society, and was ever desirous to do a good part.
She was very generous, and a friend to the poor.
She was highly intelligent, and had faith in the
principles of the Gospel; was ever ready to defend
the cause of truth she had embraced in early
youth, and taught the same to her family, and en-
couraged them to take an active part in the Asso-
ciations for the youth of Zion. She was favored
some years since, with a day vision; her spiritual
eyes were opened, and she beheld her father (who
was dead) in the spirit world preaching the Gos-
pel, surrounded by a large audience of people,
who were attentive listeners. This made a strong
impression upon her mind, and she realized the
vicarous labor being done in the life beyond; and
before her death was very desirous to attend to
Temple work. She was a devoted wife and a
loving mother, and was much respected by all
who knew her. May her family emulate her pre-
cepts and example, for she died as she had lived,
a faithful Latter-day Saint, true to the cause of
truth, and she will receive the pleasing and just
reward which is promised by our Heavenly Fath-
er to those who endure faithfully to the end.
	J.S.C.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	WE the Sisters of the Cottonwood Ward Relief
Society, do deeply feel the loss of our beloved
sister and president, Emma Morris. whom God
our Heavenly Father has in His infinite goodness
and mercy, seen fit to call from our midst.
	Be it resolved that we as a band of sisters, emu-
late her worthy examples, and her kind and
motherly counsel; she was indeed a mother to the
needy, a comforter to those cast down in trouble;
a true and sincere friend to all that knew her. We
sincerly sympathize with the bereaved children;
at the same time we ourselves feel, that we have
lost a mother.

	Memorial Services were held in honor and es-
teem of our departed Sister Emma Morris, who
died at Morgan, Utah, Jan. 6, 1896, that having
been her former home; but she had been a resi-
dent of Star Valley, Cottonwood Ward, for the
past seven years, and was also President of the
Relief Society of this place. She was very ener-
getic and faithful in all her duties, and a Saint in
very deed. She left here the first of last June, to
care for some sick relative, who resided in Mor-
gan. Her time was spent in doing good among
her relatives and friends, until she was taken sick
and died after an illness of about three weeks.
She was a kind and loving mother and sincere
friend to all associated with her. Aged 56 years,
11 months, 6 days; she leaves 7 children, 15 grand-
children and an aged father and mother, and a
host of friends to  mourn her loss. She died as
she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, beloved
by all who knew her.
	C.J.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	TO the memory of Sister Polly Carter, who de-
parted this life March 24, 1896, at her residence in
Provo City, after one year of lingering illness,
suffering with catarrh of the stomach. She was
the wife of Dominicus Carter, a Pioneer of Utah.
Sister Carter was born in New London, Huron
County, Ohio May 6, 1831. She came to Utah in
1852, with her mother Tamma Minor and the
family, her father having died Jan. 3, 1848, not far
from Boneparte, on the Des Moines River.
	She, with her parents, endured the buffettings
of the early Saints. Her mother was sick and
practically an invalid, and on her at an early age
devolved the responsibility of caring for the fam-
ily of five, as well as a sick mother, now,
	Therefore, we the members of the Relief Soci-
ety, wish to express the honor and respect enter-
tained by us for her as a true friend. She held
the office of a teacher in the Relief Society since
its first organization in this the 3rd Ward of Pro-
vo:
	She was also a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., in
which she was very much appreciated and held in

[Column 2]

high esteem, for her wise teachings and example.
	Whereas, we acknowledge her loss and her
readiness at all times to give a helping hand, and
use her influence for the furtherance of the great
Latter-day work,
	Therefore be it, Resolved that we deeply sym-
pathize with her bereaved family and friends, and
further
	Be it resolved that these resolutions be record-
ed in the records of the Relief Society, and the
Young Ladies Journal, and that copies be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and to the family of the
deceased.
	HANNAH T. CLARK,
	ARVILLA PERRY, } Committee
	LEMIRA COLLINS,
	EMILY M. CLARK, Sec.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	TO the memory of Sister Janet Laird Jenkins
who departed this life March 28th, 1896. She took
to her bed Tuesday and passed peacefully away
Saturday afternoon. Deceased was born January
13th, 1821, at Kinnaird, Larbert, Sterlingshire,
Scotland, married to James H. Jenkins in 1842.
Was baptized in the church May 27, 1847 by Peter
Moffet at Ardrie Lanarkshire Scotland.
	Confirmed by James Wilson May 30th, 1842.
Emigrated to Utah in 1863, arrived in Goshen
1864. Deceased was the mother of thirteen
children, seven of whom preveded her to the
spirit world. There are sixty-seven grand
children and twenty seven great grand-children.
	She endured many hardships in the old world,
crossing the plains and, in this country; but she
was ever firm and true to the gospel; was always
a very devoted and loving wife, living in peace
and harmony with her husband for nearly fifty
years and when he was incarcerated in the Utah
pennitentiary for conscience sake five years
ago last October, was their first separation
and when in the following February he was
brought home a corpse, her grief was intense;
but she doubled her energy in the gospel, doing
everything she could to carry out his wishes,
helping care for his young family and never tiring
in performing her church duties. She has been a
faithful member and teacher in the Relief Society
from the beginning; always loving to attend her
meetings better than anything else.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call away our beloved sister and co-worker to a
higher sphere.
	Therefore be it resolved that wethe officers and
members feel the loss of such an energetic work-
er in the cause of Lord, for her very last work
done on this earth was in performing her duty as
a visiting teacher of the Relief Society; yet we
realize she has gone to reap a glorious reward in
the Celestial Kingdom of God.
	Resolved that we try to emulate her good
example and good works that we may be able to
meet with our beloved sister again.
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family and earnestly pray that the holy
spirit of God may rest down upon them that they
may walk in her footsteps and be prepared to
again meet with their beloved mother and com- 
panion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, one be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT and one be inserted upon our
records.
“As a teacher she faithfully guarded that trust,
Her motto was wear,out but never to rust,
The last work she did was in filling this call,
As an angel of mercy with blessing for all.”
	ELLISON GOURLEY,	}
	MARY DODDS, 		} Committee.
	LUCY TAYLOR.		}


[Column 1]

SAPPHO.

HER LIFE AND WORKS.
(Preamble.)
	So little is really known of Sappho, that
one is compelled to depend upon what has
been handed down, which is partly legen-
dary, and very many people only consider
Sappho a myth.
	To me as a child Sappho was a reality,
and an ideal creature at the same time. I
can scarcely remember so young was I,
when I first heard Sappho talked of, nor
when I first read her name underneath the
picture which hung in the little chamber or
nursery where I slept. I recall it now,

[Column 2]
with its glow of beautiful coloring, and the
wondrous beauty of every outline of her
graceful figure as she appeared to my child-
ish eyes. Sappho with a harp in one hand,
which I supposed made of gold, and the gar-
land of lilies, as I thought, in the other, leap-
ing from the Leucadian rock into the yawn-
ing abyss below;—many a time have I fallen
asleep with the picture in my mind fancy-
ing I saw her motion in the very act of
springing into the water, her dress actually
fluttering in the wind.
	I am sure I must have wearied my mother
with the endless queries I put to her about
Sappho; why she wanted to throw herself
from the rock, and what love was, or Cupid
that made her do it; and why she sung
sweeter than all the Greek maidens? and
every other imaginary question. But in
truth I was never quite satisfied, nor am I
yet, nor are any of those who hanker after
the unattainable, the mystery of mysteries.
I hope some time the secret of Sappho will
be unraveled, and that we shall find she
was really a creature of flesh and blood, and
not a myth, or simply an ideal.

	The best knowledge of Sappho extant is
that she lived and flourished before the
Christian era, reaching the zenith of her
fame about 610 B. C. It was during
her life time Jeremiah began to prophecy,
and Daniel was carried away to Babylon.
Solon was legislating at Athens, and Tar-
quinius Priscus, the fifth king, is said to
have been reigning over Rome. She lived
before the birth of Guatuma, the founder of
Buddhism. It is not strange that twenty-
five centuries should have made her record
unauthentic. It is almost wonderful that
anything even legendary should be left of
one who lived so long ago, and who was
only a woman, and a poet-songstress. One
writer says had it not been for the quota-
tions of lexicographers and grammarians
no word of hers would have survived; al-
though history says her writings were pre-
served intact, until 360 A. D., and
the Athenian comic poet, Epicrates, who
wrote about that time, says in his Anti-Lais
that he too,
“Had learned by heart completely all the songs,
Breathing love, that sweetest Sappho sung.”
	Some historians affirm, although
there is no confirmatory evidence, that the
works of Sappho and other lyric poet, were
burnt at Constantinople and at Rome, in
the year 1073, in the popedom of Gregory
V 11. Cordan says the burning took place
under Gregory Magianzen, about 380, A.D.
	Bishop Blomfield, who is an acknowl-
edged authority, thinks they must have
been destroyed at an early date, because
neither Alcaeus nor Sappho are annotated
by any of the later grammarians.
	The origin of Sappho is also more or less
mythical. Herodotus says her father was
Scamandronymus, but Suidas, who com-
piled a Greek lexicon in eleven hun-
dred, gives us the choice of seven other
names. Her mother's name was Cleis. It
is possible too that she was born at Mitylene
the chief city of the island of Lesbos, an is-
land in the Agean sea. Strabo in her geogra-
phy says Mitylene, formerly produced cele
brated men, such as Pittacus, one of the wise
men, Alcaeus, the poet, and others “Contem-
porary with these flourished Sappho, who
was something wonderful; at no period
within memory, has any woman been
known, who in any way, even in the least
degree, could be compared to her for poetry.”


[Column 1]
The glory of Lesbos was that Sappho was 
its citizen, and its chief fame centres in the
fact of her celebrity.
	“Where burning Sappho loved and sung.”
is a quotation familiar to us all; the island is
famous now for its oil and wine, and its
salubrity. Virgil refers to its vines which
trailed like ivy on the ground, and many
authors testify to the wholesomeness of
Lesbos wine.
	Sappho was of the Aeolian race, and Sy-
monds in his Studies of Greek Poets says
“The Aeolians occupied the very fore-
ground of Greek literature, and blazed out
with a brilliance of lyrical splendor that has
never been surpassed. This passion blos-
somed into the most exquisite lyrical poetry
that the world has known.” In this the
Lesbian poets (it is said) were not unlike
the Provencal troubadours, who made a
literature of love. The customs of the Aeo-
lians permitted more social and domestic
freedom than was common in Greece.
Aeolian women were not confined to the
harem like Ionians, or subjected to the
rigorous discipline of the Spartans. While
mixing freely with male society, they were
highly educated, and accustomed to express
their sentiments to an extent unknown else-
where in history—until the present time.
The Lesbian ladies applied themselves
successfu[-]ly to literature; they formed clubs
for the cultivation of poetry and music;
they studied the art of beauty, and sought
to refine metrical forms and diction. Nor
did they confine themselves to the scientific
side of Art. Unrestrained by public opin-
on and passionate for the beautiful, they
cultivated to the extreme their senses and
emotions. All the luxuries and elegancies
of life the rich valleys of Lesbos could afford
were at their disposal; exquisite tropical
gardens, olive groves and fountains, pine
shadowed caves by the sea where bathing
was a delight, fruits such as only the South-
ern sea and sea wind ever mature, mar-
ble cliffs starred with the flowers of spring,
aromatic with the perfume of myrtle and
rosemary; nightingales that sing the sum-
mer nights through, temples dim with
dusky gold and bright with ivory, statues and
frescoes of heroic forms; these are the sur-
roundings, the settings, the environments
of the poets who lived and sung and who
 still live in the memory of the world.
	One writer says the voluptuousness of
Aeolian poetry, is not like that of Persian
or Arabian art. It is Greek in its self-re-
straint, proportion, tact; and there is noth-
ing burdensome in its sweetness. All is so
rhythmically and sublimely ordered in the
poems of Sappho, that supreme art lends
solemnity and grandeur to the expression
of unmitigated passion.
	Sappho seems to have been the centre of a
society in Mytilene where she dwelt, a
kind of aesthetic club, devoted to the Muses.
Maidens gathered around her from even
comparatively distant places, attracted by
her fame, to study under her all that related
to poetry and music; similar to the later age
when students resorted to the philosophers
at Athens. The names of fourteen of her
girl-friends have been preserved, the most
celebrated was Erinna, a poetess of Lesbos;
a poetess of whom an Epigram in the Greek
Anthology says. 
‘These are Erinna songs, how sweet though slight,
	For she was but a girl of nineteen years.—
Yet stronger far than what most men can write,
Had death delayed, whose fame had equalled hers.’

[Column 2]
	Of another Damophylia, of Pamphylia, it
is said she lived in close friendship with
Sappho and wrote poems after her model.
Suidas says Sappho’s companions and
friends were three, Attis Lesippa and
Megara, and her pupils he also names.
Another Greek writer says “What Alcib-
iades aud Charmides and Phaedrus were
to Socrates, Gyrinna and Atthis and Anoc-
toria were to Sappho—she herself praised
Dica for her skill in weaving coronals, and
a daughter of Polyanax is addressed as one
of her maidens; nor can we tell who were
those other hundred maidens. Ovid
makes her say “She blamelessly loved
before Phaon satisfied her heart.” Plato in his
Phaedrus calls Sappho—“Beautiful for the
sweetness of her songs.” Maximns Tyrius
says she was small and dark, une petite bru-
nette. Swinburne says,
	“The small dark body’s Lesbian loveliness,
		That held the fire eternal.”
Aleacus to Sappho in his song says:
“Violet-weaving pure, soft-smiling Sappho.”
	Domachris in the Greek Anthology, in
an Epigram on a statue of Sappho, speaks
of her bright eyes showing her wisdom,
and compares the beauty of her face to that
of Aphrodite. To another writer in the
Greek Anthology she is the pride of “The
lovely-haired Lesbians.” Anacreon as
well as Philoxenus, calls her “Sweet-voic-
ed.” Little is known of her personal ap-
pearance, but the whole testimony of ancient
writers describe the charm of her poetry
with unbounded praise.
	Such was her unique renown, that she
was called “The Poetess,” as Horace was
“The Poet.” Plato numbers her among
the Wise. Phutarch speaks of the grace of
her poems, acting on her listeners like an
enchantment, and says that when he read
them “he set aside the drinking cup in very
shame.”
	A knowledge of her writings was held to
be essential of culture among the Greeks,
and she is called in the Greek Anthology,
the Tenth Muse, child of Aphrodite and
Eros, nursling of the Graces, and Persua-
sion, pride of Hellas, companion of Apollo,
and prophesy her immortality. Many
Greek poets have written of her in the most
passionate style. Plato says
	“Some thoughtlessly proclaim the Muses Nine,
	A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, Maid divine.”
	All the Eipgrammatists uuite in the
same strain calling her “The flower of the
Graces.”
	Aristotle remarks that her image was en-
graved on the coins of Mitylene “though
she was only a woman.” J. C. Wolf de-
scribes six extant coins, which presumably
were struck at different times in honor of
her; however no coins bearing the name or
effigy of Sappho have been discovered
which were current before the Christian era,
so that no conclusion drawn can be of his-
torical importance. The best representa-
tion of what she and her surroundings
might have been, is the Sappho of Alma
Tadema exhibited at the Royal Academy
1881 and etched by C. O. Murray and pho-
tographed by the Berlin Photographic
company; from this J. C. Webb has en-
graved a medallion.
	A large statue of Sappho was splendedly
made by Silanion aud stolen by Verres. ac-
cording to Cicero, from the pyrtaneum at
Syracuse. Christodomus in the Anthology
describes a statue of her as adorning the
gymnasium of the Byzantium, in the fifth

[Column 3]
century. (Pliny says that Leon an artist,
painted a picture of her in the garb of a
lutist.)
	Numerous illustrations of her still exist
upon Greek vases, but they are all said to be
in a debased style, and one would feel more
content not to have seen them. (J. Ad-
dington Symonds says “The world has
suffered no greater literary loss, than the
loss of Sappho’s poems, so perfect are the
smallest fragments preserved, that we
muse in a sad rapture of astonishment to
think what the complete poems must have
been. Of all the poets of the world, of all
the illustrious artists of all literatures,
Sappho is the one whose every word has
a peculiar and unmistakable perfume, a
seal of absolute perfection and illimitable
grace. In her art she was unerring.”)
	The age in which Sappho flourished is
mainly determined by concurrent events.
Athenaeus makes her contemporary with
Alyattes, the father of Crœsus who reigned
over Lydia from 628, to 570, B. C. Euse-
bius mentions her in his Chronicle for the
year 604 B. C. How long she lived no
one of the writers of that day pretend to
determine; to herself in Fragment 75 of her
poems she applies the epithet old, which
may be merely relative. If what Herodo-
tus says is true, Sappho may have reached
the age of fifty years. An inscription on
the famous Parian marbles, a system of
chronology compiled in the third century
B. C., says “When Aristocles reigned over
the Athenians, Sappho fled from Mitylene
and sailed to Sicily, but the exact date is
illegible, though it may be placed between
604 and 592 B. C.
	Balancing all the evidence, Fasti Hellen-
icci takes the years 611 and 592 to be the
years in which Sappho flourished.
	Of the family life of Sappho nothing re-
liable is known. Lindas says “Sappho
married one Cercolas, a man of great wealth,
who sailed from Andros,” and he adds “She
had a daughter by him named Cleis.” In
Fr. 85, Sappho mentions this daughter
Cleis by name, and Ovid in his Epistle also
refers to her; but the existence of such a
husband has been warmly disputed
	“The story of Sappho’s love for Phaon,
and her leap from the Leucadian rock, in
consequence of his disdaining her, though
it has been so long implicitly believed, does
not seem to rest on any historical basis.
Indeed more than one epigrammatist in the
Greek Anthology expressly states that she
was buried in an Aeolic grave.”
	For all the myths or legends that cluster
about Phaon, he may after all have been a
real personage. The traditions which have
been handed down tell of his miraculous
lovelineess, and insensibility to love. He
is said to have been a boatman of Mitylene
who was endowed by Aphrodite with youth
and extrodinary beauty as a reward for be-
ing ferried her for nothing. Servius, who
wrote about 400 A. D., says she gave him
an alabaster box of ointment, the effect of
which was to make all women fall in love
with him, and that one of these (he does
not mention her name) threw herself in des-
pair from the cliff of Leucas. Servius
further states on the authority of Menander,
that the temple was founded by Phaon of
Lesbos. Phaon’s beauty and power of
fascination passed into a proverb. Pliny
however says, he became the object of Sap-
pho’s love because he had found the plant
eryngo, probably our sea-holly, and that it
acted like a love-charm.


[Column 1]
	The tale runs that the unfortunate love
of Sappho caused Phaon to flee to Sicily,
whither she followed him. The inscriptions 
on the Parian marbles also mention a cer-
tain year in which Sappho sailed from
Mitylene and fled to Sicily. The Chroni-
cle however, says nothing about Phaon,
nor is any reason given for her exile; some
have imagined that she was obliged to leave
her country on political grounds, but there
is no trace in her writings, nor does any re-
port indicate that she ever interested herself
in politics.
	Strabo in his Geography says, there is a
white rock which stretches out from Leucas
to the sea towards Cephallenia, that takes
its name from its whiteness. The rock of
Leucas has upon it a temple of Apollo and
the leap from it was believed to stop love.
From this it is said that Sappho first in pur-
suit of the haughty Phaon, urged on by
maddening desire, threw herself from its
far-seen rocks, imploring the (Apollo) lord
and king. The story of the Leucadian leap
was never much doubted until modern
times. It is strange that none of the many
authors who relate the legend, say what
was the result of the leap, whether it was
fatal to her life or to her love.
	The story as given by Addison was, Sap-
pho the Lesbian in love with Phaon, arrived
at the temple of Apollo habited like a bride,
in garments as white as snow. She wore a
garland of myrtle on her head, and carried
in her hand a little musical instrument of
her own invention. After having sung a
hymn to Apollo, she hung up her garland
on one side of his altar, and her harp on the
other. She then tucked up her vestments
like a Spartan virgin, and amidst thousands
of spectators, who were anxious for her
safety and offered up vows for her deliver-
ance, marched directly foward to the ut-
most summit of the promontory, where af-
ter having repeated a stanza of her own
verses, which they could not hear, she
threw herself off the rock with such an in-
trepedity as was never before observed in
any who had attempted the dangerous leap.
Many who were present related that they
saw her fall into the sea, from which she
never rose again; though there were others
who affirmed that she never came to the
bottom of her leap, but was changed into a
swan as she fell, and that they saw her hov-
ering in the air under that shape. But
whether or no the whiteness and fluttering
of her garments, might not deceive those
who looked upon her, or whether she might
not be metamorphosed into that musical
and melancholy bird, is still a doubt among
the Lesbians. Alcaeus the famous lyric
poet, who had for some time been passion-
ately in love with Sappho, arrived at the
promontory of Leucate that very evening
in order to take the leap on her account
but learning that Sappho had been there
before him and that her body could nowhere
be found, he very generously lamented her
fall, and is said to have written his one
hundred and twenty-fifth ode upon that oc-
casion. Sappho, if we can believe the an-
cient writers, loved, and loved more than
once, and loved to the point of desperate
sorrow, though it did not come to the mad
and fatal leap from Leucate as the unnec-
essary legend pretends. Sir Edwin Arnold
says “Nevertheless there are worse steeps
than Leucate down which the heart may
fall, and colder seas of despair than the
Adriatic than which to engulf it.”
	Although so little of Sappho remains, her

[Column 2]
complete works must have been consider-
able. She seems to have been the acknow-
ledged writer of wedding songs, if we may
believe Himericus and there is little doubt that
Catullus Epithalamia was copied if not
actually translated from hers. She was on
all sides regarded as the greatest erotic poet
of antiquity. Nine books of her lyric Odes
are said to have existed, but it is uncertain
how they were composed. Some of the
Odes of Horace have been regarded as direct
translations from Sappho.
	Athenaeus says that Chamaeleon, one of
the disciples of Aristotle, wrote a book
about Sappho, and Strabo says Callias of
Lesbos interpreted her songs. Alexander
the Sophist used to lecture about her, and
Dracon of Stratonica, wrote a commentary
on her metres. She wrote in the Aeolic dia-
lect; the absence of rough breathing, the
throwing back of the accent, and the use of
many forms and words unknown to ordinary
Attic Greek, all testify to this. Her poems
were undoubtedly written for recitation
with the aid of music, they were in fact,
Prof. Mahaffy says “The earliest specimens
of what is called in modern days “The Song
or Ballad,” in which the repetition of short
rhythms produces a certain pleasant mono-
tony easy to remember and easy to under-
stand.”
	Plato’s definition of melic poetry like
Sappho’s, is that it is “Compounded out of
three things, speech, music and rhythm.”
	Aristoxenus, as quoted by Plutarch, as-
cribes to her the invention of the Mixo-
Lydian mode, of which the plain meaning is
asserted to be that she sang softly and
plaintively, and at a higher pitch than any
of her predecessors. All Greek modes can
be exhibited by means of our diatonic scale
—by the white keys for example, omitting
the black ones, of our modern piano-fortes;
the various modes having been merely di-
visions of the diatonic scale into certain
regions, each consisting of one octave. The
Ecclesiastical Mixo- Lydian mode supposed
to be similar to the Greek mode of the
same name, is the scale of our G. major
without the (F. #.) or leading note. It was
called in the early Christian Church the an-
gelic mode, and is now known as the
sveenth of the Ecclesiastical or Gregorian
modes. Sappho is said by Greek historians
to have been the first of the Greek poets to
use the Pektis, a foreign instrument, a kind
of harp which was played by the fingers
without a plectum. Sappho also mentions
by name kinds of many-stringed Lesbian
lyres, which cannot now be identified.
	It is said to be impossible to translate the
songs of Sappho and preserve the poetry,
and most of the fragments are given prose
translations which give a truer meaning.
	I have copied one or two as specimens—
here is one the 51st fragment.
	“And there the bowl of ambrosia was
mixed, and Hermes took the ladle to pour
out for the gods; and then they all held
goblets, and made libation, and wished the
bridegroom all good luck.”
	“Round about, the cool water thrills
through the apple branches, and sleep flows
down upon us in the rustling leaves.”
	“Come goddess of Cyprus, and in golden
cups serve nectar delicately mixed with
delights.”
	“O muse of the golden throne, raise that
strain which the Elder of Teos, from the
goodly land of fair women, used to sing
so sweetly.”
	“Raise high roof-beams! carpenters! Like

[Colmun 2]
Ares comes the bridegroom, taller than a
tall man! Hymenaeus! Towering as the
Lesbian singer towers among men of other
lands.”
	Another prose translation.
	“As the sweet apple blushes on the end of
the bough, the very end of the bough,
which the gatherers overlooked, nay over-
looked not, but could not reach.”
	Tran lation by Palgrave.
				O fair—O sweet!
	As the sweet apple blooms high on the bough
	High as the highest forgot of the gatherers 
					So thou!
	Yet not so! Nor forgot of the gatherers
	High o’er their reach in the golden air
				O sweet! O fair!
	Of her child Sappho wrote beautifully in
the Aeolian, literally translated.
	I have a fair daughter with a form like a
golden flowers, Cleis the beloved! Above
whom I prize, nor all Lydia, nor lovely
Lesbos. 
	Translated by Merivale.
		“I have a child, a lovely one
		In beauty like the golden sun,
		Or like sweet flowers of earliest bloom
		And Cleis is her name, for whom,
		I, Lydia’s treasures, were they mine
		Would glad resign.”
	It is said by the best men of letters and
Greek scholars, that it is impossible to
judge Sappho by any translations of her
fragments either prose or poetry; and as it
is utterly useless to try and picture her in-
comparable beauty of face, grace of form
and voice of sweetness, the whole idea of
Sappho as I have it in my mind is in its-
self a poem not capable of being translated.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ONLY $40.50.
TO LETHBRIDGE, CANADA AND RETURN.
	May 18th the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge,
Canada, the nearest railroad point to
Cardston.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

CARDSTON, ALBERTA, CANADA.
SPECIAL EXCURSION.
	May 18th, the Union Pacific will run a
special excursion Salt Lake to Lethbridge,
Canada, the nearest railroad point to
Cardston, Canada. Fare for the round
trip only $40.50.
	Tickets good returning 30 days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1896. No. 24


CONTENTS:
	Visit to Washington—Sarah A. Boyer. Ladies'
Semi-monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. Birthday
Party—Elvira A. Harrison. W. S. A. Meeting—
Cassie C. Newman. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R. Shipp.
Miss Barton's Relief Work—Clara Barton. Min-
erva W. Snow. Mrs. Brown's Letter. The Book
Of Mormon—M. E. K. In Memoriam. Obitu-
aries. Mrs. Chapman-Catt. Notes And News.
W. S. A.—Nettie Hunt. Conference Of The N.
A. W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—Twenty Four Years. Sixty
Of Wedded Lifes. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Two Little Herd Boys—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Reflections—Libbie. A
Desert Blooms Again—Samantha T. Brimhall.


TWO LITTLE HERD BOYS.

Billy, I’m thinking of when we were boys,  
	Days that seemed made all of trouble and care,
Come back in memory laden with joys 
	Glowing with pictures all happy and fair,
Up the long canyon with whip and with pail
	Gathering flowers we followed the cows,
Gathering water cress close by the trail
	And hunting the birds nests far tip in the
	boughs.
And while our herd wandered over the hill,
	Idly we gazed on the valley far down,
While echoed around us the whistles so shrill
	Of U. P. and Denver in race for the town,
Long before dinner we emptied our pails,
	Thoughtless of hours ere the sun would go
	down,
Then homeward we hurried with songs and with
	tales,
	Two little herd boys, barefooted and brown.
Over the dry lake that shone in the sun,
	Down by the Jordan, the rushes and slough;
Wild fowl flew up out of reach of our gun,
	And fishes were plenty though we caught but 
	few.
Still we were happy, for glowing and bright
	The sun as it sank,threw its rays from the west,
And the windows of home answered back all
	alight,
And beckoned us there to a welcome and rest.
The coasting and skating! We boys were not
	cold
Though keen blew the wind and the icicles 
	grew,
’Till back by the fireside and stories are told—
	Then,Billy,’twas cold,with the chores yet to do.
O, heavy in keeping, the burden and strife!
	The riches and honors, they chain us around,
They flush and then fade. The best hours of
	life
	Were for two little playmates, barefooted and
	brown.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 30, 1896.


REFLECTIONS

OUR labors are finished our prayers have been
	answered
	And homeward all joyous we go 
It will cheer the fond hearts of our aged parents
	And little we’ll heed the fall of the snow.
But our flowers are tender from warm beds they’re
	taken,
The cold, chilly winds they never have known;


Beneath sultry skies they were planted and
	nurtured, 
	In their infancy there with others they’ve grown.
We have labored so hard to prune well the vine-
	yard
And carefully remove every rock from the way,
For the Master has said if thy labor is faithful,
	Thy reward will be sure at the close of the day.
So our hearts were e’er happy, our burdens were
	lightened
	The labor was finished we were sent forth to do,
We knew to our homes we again would be wel-
	comed, 
By our kindred and friends who have been to
	us true,
So with hearts bounding over with joy and with
	gladness
	God speeded our journey by sea and by land,
When nearly approaching the city of promise,
	A cold, chilly cloud o’er shadowed our band.
Our fears were aroused on account of our flowers,
	So tender,so priceless,rare jewels from heaven,
	We nestled them closer,but felt a foreboding,
Of ill-fate, as towards us the cloud was fast.
	driven.
Kind friends full of joy ne’er thinking of evil,
	Warmly greeted us ’ere we arrived at our home;
But could we forget the cloud that hung o’er us,
	The sorrow that, seemed to await us at home?
O no ’twas the cold chilly winds of December,
	That stole from our garland the fairest of all;
And our hearts were bowed down when we
	thought to be happy,
	And humbly we bowed to the Maker of all.
For the Gardener was ready to gather the flowers
	He had given us to cherish and keep for awhile
And our hearts were sore grieved when he firmly
	demanded
We yield up our darling, our beautiful child.
And thus our return to our home was made
	gloomy
	By the cold hand of death that welcomed us all
And Fate had decreed the reception long talked
	of
Should be to us only a burial pall. 
	LIBBIE	
January, 1896.


[Column 1]
	
VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

HAVING been asked to give a short
sketch of my trip to Washington, I do so
with pleasure, hoping the same will not be
uninteresting, though I do not do this be-
cause of my fitness by nature to tell it with
precision and amplitude as one versed in
descriptive lore, but will give a few of my
observations and conditions as we met them.
The object in going as you are all well
aware was to attend a Woman’s Suffrage
Convention, and while it might seem a use-
less expenditure of time and money con-
sidering that Utah is now a State with
universal political equality guaranteed to
ajilier citizens without regard to race, color
of sex; yet it was deemed expedient and al-
so a matter of justice due the National W.
S. A. to meet with them as on former pc-
casions, not now as formerly to solicit their
influence in our behalf, but that they were

[Column 2]
in need of our influence, together with
forty-three other States and Territories who
went there for the purpose of devising
methods best adapted to further the cause
and to petition Congress to grant them a
six teenth amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. It was a time when
never were the Delegates interviewed with
greater zest than on the present occasion,
but mind you, (we attribute these to our)
charged condition in state affairs and not to
ourselves. Many of the Presidents of
State associations said to me, they were
paid for coming to the convention if only
they could report to their State association,
that Utah women were independent and
free as the third star on the flag of one
Union indicates. They acknowledge they
are possessed with the prejudices of the past
to such an extent that they feared we were
not socially free. I told them it would
have been utterly impossible to have ob-
tained political freedom unless our social
influence had asserted itself &c. During
one conversation I had with some of the
ladies about Utah's social condition a Mrs.
Haskell walked across the parlor to where
we were and asked pardon for the intrusion,
but said she I have been listening to your
conversation and desire to introduce myself.
I am so interested in Utah that I desire to
hear more of her people[-] for while I reside,
in Montana, I know little of your true
status. It was she who was the nominee
for the Office of Attorney General of the
State of Montana but was defeated by Mr.
Haskell her competitor. This created quite
a ripple of laughter in the audience, as also
in the introduction of Miss Yates calling
her Mrs. Yates she objected to being called 
Mrs. and Miss Anthony remarked “no we
don’t covet the title” “Speak for yourself
Aunt Susan” quickly responded witty Miss
Yates which brought down the house.
   Another: reason why it was deemed wise
to send delegates at the present time was to
evidence our progressiveness in uniting our
voices with the rest of the States and.
ritories in the hope that ere long every
State in the Union will concede to woman
this right, and inasmuch as this body of
women had advertised their intention of de-
voting one session to Utah in welcoming
and congratulating her people in the gallant
fight they had made to engraft this principle
in her constitution it was deemed necessary
by the President, of the Utah W. S. A. 
and the State executive committee to
send Delegates expressing our ap-
preciation of their recognition and
to respond to Miss Shaw's address of
welcome; as you already know our Senator
Franks J. Cannon was the first speaker to
respond to Miss Shaw’s address of welcome
and was followed by Mrs. C. E. Allen, my-
self and Mrs. F. S. Richards who read a
Paper which was replete with valuable in-
formation relative to our present position
and what had led to it from the Edmunds-
Tucker law down to the present time.
The Washington papers made favorable
comment of our speeches. It was remarked
by Miss Shaw that there never was a time
when we re[-]eived so little opposition as at the


[Column 1]
present. She referred to their San Fran
cisco trip and Salt Lake last summer and
said that the Congress of San Francisco was
the most marvelous gathering she ever saw.
The newspapers said the men were all
hypnotized or they would not stand on the
side walks two hours to get into a Church.
Every subject considered from the training
of children to the decoration of the home, it
all turned on the ballot for woman and
Susan B. Anthony was the Belle of the
Ball. The Superintendent of the San
Francisco schools closed them that Miss
Anthony might address nine hundred
teachers.
	Senator Peffer of Kansas before whom
twenty-two of the Convention presented
their petitions, said there never was a time 
when Congress showed so little prejudice to
our cause as now. Reform in Washington
seems to be the watchword, I believe that
seven out of every ten realize that the ballot
is the one thing necessary to aid in these
reforms.
	The sin spot of Washington, called the
Division or Washington plague spot was be-
ing raided. A prominent lady, a Mrs.
Barrett, at a big mass meeting held there to
take into consideration the best steps to
arrest the sin stained spot was asked by
several well known Lawyers and business
men of the city, would you advocate
raiding the Division and she invaribly
answered “no, because I would not close
even that door to these unfortunate women
until another door was opened for them.’’
	"There stood," said she, ‘‘once in the streets
of Florence, a block of marble, it was an un-
sightly mass of stone which occupied the
public space and was in everybody’s way.
It was decided to remove it and one day a
force of men came to break it to pieces and
cast away the fragments. Before they be- 
gan their work, Michael Angelo chanced to
pass and seeing the block asked that it
might be given him, he said there was an
Angel in that mass of stone and he took it
home. The Sculptor set the Angel free
and today instead of being a nuisance to the
citizens of that beautiful city it guards the
entrance to a great Church and is admired
by the world. So there is an Angel in
every fallen woman and it needs but a
Michael Angelo to bring it forth so that it
may shine in the light of God’s glory to be
numbered among the sinners who have re-
pented, whose value is so many more times
greater than the wise men.” This is a beau-
tiful metaphor; we could write volumes of
the many and varied kinds of mission work
which seems to actuate all classes and de-
nominations in Washington. The descrip-
tions of the receptions and the little inci-
dent of presenting our Senators with a
bouquet of flowers the morning they were
sworn in can be better portrayed by Mrs.
Richards orally than I can do it in writing.
However I trust the feeling that exists
between the national association and the
women of Utah will ever remain, and that
the hand of friendship may never be sev-
ered but that our representation in Wash-
ington may be yearly renewed which will
better evidence our interest in the great
cause of our sex and in humanity than all
the writing we could do. I do know that
our presence and conversation allayed much
prejudice against our people. Shakespeare 
says, “There is a destiny which shapes our
ends, rough, hew them as we may.” The
destiny of Utah is onward and upward. It
is right, conquering might, and may the

[Column 2]
men of Utah never have cause to regret the
part they played which has resulted in
woman's political freedom by an indiscre-
tion of ours, is the honest wish of your co-
laborer in the battle for the right.
SARAH A. BOYER.
Springville, Utah.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Meeting of Ladies, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 22nd, 1896. Counselor E. J. Steven-
son presided. Singing, “Lord we come be-
fore thee now.” Prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon. Continued by singing,
“Welcome best of all good meetings.”
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she thought
it so beautiful that our meeting came this
year on Washington’s Birthday. But did
he do all these glorious things without
seeking unto God for light and truth.
Read the life of Washington, it is so full of
faith. Often he went into the woods to
pray. Sisters improve the time and say a
few words and then you will feel to speak
of the goodness of God. Sister Mary Ann
Hyde said she came to be built up and
strengthened. I am thankful to be one
among you. The subject of the youth of
Zion had troubled her for many years.
They are surrounded by temptation. We
must pray earnestly all the time that Satan
does not overcome us. The day has ar-
rived that the dreadful things are coming to
pass, which the prophet told us of. Are
we preparing for the coming of the Son of
Man? We should encourage our children
to have faith. I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister Sperry said her heart beat so hard,
that she felt to bear her testimony. I pray
that we may be faithful. Also prayed that
the aged would be blessed, for they had
borne the heat and the burden of the day.
	Sister Rollinson bore an excellent
testimony. A sister in the congregation
bore her testimony, said she had found true
happiness since she understood the gospel.
	Sisters sang, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Sister M. L. Morris said she felt glad that
“This people is my people, your God my
God.” Let us help those who are cast
down. The Lord loves the pure in heart.
Let us build each other up. I know that
my Redeemer liveth.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony. Spoke
of a little girl that she had adopted, and
how much faith she had.
	Sister J. Samson bore testimony also
that the Spirit of God was here in rich
abundance.
A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony, giving honor and glory to the Lord
who had strengthened her in her body,
also stating that the healing power was in
the Church, and the blessing of these
meetings.
	Counselor E. Webb, felt it a pleasure to
meet here in peace and quiet, while trouble
and strife is increasing all over the earth.
Spoke a few words relative to the franchise,
urged the sisters to be wise in its use.
Asked the sisters not to judge each other,
but be peace-makers, and closed by bearing
a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister Barnes bore testimony to the com-
fort and blessings she received in these
meetings.
	Sister L. D. Alder bore a faithful testi-
mony,

[Column 2]
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball: The Lord
had said “If ye are not one ye are not
mine,” said she rejoiced in every one who
loved the Lord. Spoke of a man who
fought with Washington that knew the Lord
had been with him, by hearing him praying
in the woods. Now in this day when
prayer is despised by many how beautiful
this practice of Washington seems. De-
plored the condition of our young people
who were recreant and indifferent. Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Barnes’ daughter bore testimony to
the gift of the Spirit while the sisters were
singing, “Redeemer of Israel ”
	Another sister bore testimony to the gift
of healing, her little daughter being healed
so wonderfully. Spoke of a dream she had
and felt to press on and serve the Lord.
	Sister Stevenson made closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction Sister Elmina S. Taylor.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTY

	A Birthday party was held in St. John’s,
Idaho, March 23, 1896, in honor of
Eliza P. Williams.
	The members of the Relief Society of
St. John’s gave their President Eliza P.
Williams a surprise at about twelve o’olock.
The members gathered together at the
meeting house with their baskets filled
with good things which they transfered to
the table and when all was ready, Sister
Williams was invited to the meeting house.
When the door was opened and our Presi-
dent saw so many sisters and the tables
spread, she wept for joy. She was pre-
sented with two chairs and some other
small gifts.
	Singing and short speeches followed and
an enjoyable time was held.
ELVIRA A. HARRISON, Sec.
St. John’s, Oneida Co., Idaho.


W. S. A. MEETING.
	MINUTES of Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. held
in fourteenth. Ward hall, March 17th, 1896.
Sang “O, Come, Come Away.”  Prayer
by Elizabeth Price. Sang: “The Reason
Why.” Minutes of last meeting read and
approved. Report of select committee.
Emily S. Richards had consulted with State
committee and several lawyers and found
that they disagree on the subject of Right
of Wife’s Dower, she had been treated
courteously and kindly by all and read a
written statement given by Judge Suther-
land. Her report was accepted and a vote
of thanks given Mrs. Richards for the in-
formation given: and committee released.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith read from Roberts
Rules of Order. Elizabeth J. McFarlane
read a very instructive chapter on Rights
and Privileges and immunities of citizen-
ship. Mrs. J. R. Midgley said that the
study of Parliamentary Rules was very
essential if we were going to attend, and in
all probability conduct public meetings our-
selves in the future. Mrs. Holden resigned
as chairman of Executive Committee and
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith was appointed to fill
the vacancy, and Maria Holt appointed to
fill the vacant place on the committee.
Meeting adjourned for one month. Bene-
diction by Hannah Oswald.,
	CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A DESERT BLOOMS AGAIN.

	SOMANTHA T. BRIMHALL.
BRIGHT is the morn and daylight gleams and
	sheds its rays afar,
ln silent reverence nature breathes the calm, soft
	morning air; 
Clouds resting on the Eastern hills are lit by early
	dawn, 
The bright sun through their curtain steals, again
	his light is born
To smile upon the vale beneath clothed by
	verdure’s hand
As it glitters there to form a wreath to crown a
	wasted land.
I leave the vale while all is still for silence reigns
	around
And wander to a neighboring hill, where food for
	thoughts abound,
For solitude has pleasant charms to lead the
	mind to good,
While I am cheered by nature’s forms that ages
	have withstood.
Serrated outlines rise and fall o’er columns stately
	grand
As an uneven lofty wall looking o’er all the land;
The mountains rising in the North to head the
	level plain
Roll off in grandeur in the South to meet the
	surging main;
Rich valleys gleaming down among the rolling
	foot-hills there,
Now smile with fields of waving corn and gardens
	rich and rare.
The foot-prints of an ancient race who lived upon
	this land
Are seen upon the mountains face, a sight pro-
	foundly grand;
Their ruins here are strewn around, we see them
	everywhere,
Upon the barren wasted ground which once was
	tilled with care.
I look toward the rising sun and on the moun-
	tains’ height
I see the works their hands have done, for there
	a wondrous sight!
A fortress stands, of olden time, upon the highest
	peak;
It seems to be above the line that man would
	ever seek.
And yet it stands a witness bold, its walls of solid
	stone, 
The mortal hands that made its hold forever now
	are gone.
This land has here a desert lain for many a dreary
	year
The ruined ‘Montezumas’ seen, for ages have
	been here;
No puny race could ever build those strong old
	walls so grand,
That now this mystery deep enfold “’twas once a
	favored land.”
While wrapt in muse and wonder here and think-
	ing of the dead;
There seems a low voice in my ear, "you in the
	footsteps tread”
Of ancient Lehi’s fallen race, once a chosen band
Whose record, Mormon here did trace with a
	prophetic hand.
How changed the scene, I turn again and gaze on
	vale below;
Once more the barren waste is green and pure
	bright streamlets-flow.
While leafy trees of fruit and shade hide dwell-
	ings from the view 
And cast their shadows o’er the - glade, where
	flowers bloom anew.
Or interspersed by loftier spires gleaming so
	proud above

[Column 2]
Form arches there with twining vines, that in the
	breezes move.
Once more the feathered tribe is seen among the
	beds of flowers,
Once more their chambers high are green, their
	nests hang in the bowers:
The ancient trees whose trunks have lain per-
	haps since other ages,
Are sought by honey bees again and filled with
	choicest "dulces.”
Once more the harvest lap is filled with sheaves
	of ripened grain
And delicious fruits to redness turned by the
	summer sun and rain:
Once more the busy echo flies from the sound of
	workmens’ tools
And handsome modern structures rise for
	pleasant homes and schools.
Colonia, Juarez, Mexico.


U. W. P. C.

	By special invitation the Utah Woman’s
Press Club held its April meeting at the
residence of Mrs. Syntitha Dickinson.
The meeting being called to order by the
president.
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. W. Hyde.
Roll call was answered by original senti-
ments. Minutes read and with corrections
were approved.
	Miss. S. L. Monroe read a most in-
structive paper on Ceramics. Giving the
origin history and present status of pottery.
She said "All other arts fade with time,
but the flowers on a Dresden vase will last
for ages, children grow up among beautiful
china with an innate love of beauty and re-
finement; the table ceases to be merely a
feeding place when set with beautiful
china.”
	This was followed by the recitation of the
“Drunkards Dream,” by Miss Edith
Rossiter. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox then read an
original poem entitled “Myrtle And
Violets.”
	Dr. Elliot was then introduced to the
club as the guest of the evening and enter-
tained the club with interesting facts in the
life and labors of Miss Barton. Gave the
origin of the Red Cross and a sketch of
Miss Barton’s work; she possesses great
executive ability; does everything in a
systematic and economical manner.
	Mrs. M. E. Shipp then sang “Sweet
Spirit hear my prayer.” A letter to the
club from Mrs. Brown, at Washington,
was read by the Secretary—and the
exercises closed with prayer by Lizzie
S.Wilcox.
	Then followed dainty refreshments
served by the charming hostess and a bevy
of lovely girls. Social interchange of
thought and pleasant converse followed and
all went home feeling benefited socially and
intellectually. 
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec.


[Column 1]
MISS BARTON’S RELIEF WORK.

	CONSTANTINOPLE, April 25.—[Special
correspondence of the Associated Press.]
—Miss Clara Barton has drawn up the fol
lowing statement regarding the progress of
her relief work in Asia Minor. It should
be understood that one object of our ex-
peditions in the field at this time, is the
helping of the people to cultivate their land
and get crops off that they may subsist in

[Column 2]
the near future and through the winter, or
their condition of hunger and threatened
starvation will be as great or greater than
now. To this end our two expeditions
have been for several weeks purchasing in
the cities, the farming implements in gen-
eral use by the people and carrying them to
the villages and farm lands of the country 
where all implements have been either
destroyed or taken.
	It is understood that the government has
expressed a desire to take part in providing
seed for planting. Indian corn is one
article distributed for food by our people and
it can be planted if no other seed is pro-
vided. The two expeditions are en route
for Harpoot by different ways, providing
for the farmers as the go. Money for this
purpose is being freely sent from here.
	The other object and perhaps the one
appealing more directly to the sympathies
of the people is the handling of the medical
relief of the two fever stricken cities of
Zeltoun and Marash, where eight to ten
thousand people are suffering the agonies of
four distinct epidemics raging among them
at once—typhoid and typhus fevers,
dysentery and small-pox. The first three
would naturally follow as the conditions of
starvation and hardships and the putrid
atmosphere of the neglected field of siege
and battle with festering wounds and long
unburied dead. The small-pox must have
been brought from some infected district.
	For the treatment of these thousands
there are no physicians left, if they escaped
one fate they fell by another. A few holy
missionary men and women, with names to
henceforth form a part of the history of this
miserable field, and one worn doctor, divid-
ing himself between three cities seven miles
apart, like poor Cassabianca, stood at their
posts.
	On this state of things we look for the
medical relief of these ill-fated cities.
Physicians must be found who are willing
to risk the double danger of contagious
disease and a country by no means in a
settled condition.
	Through Mr. George Post of Beyrout a
few were drawn from the medical college in
that city, placed under charge of Dr. Ira
Harris and sent on by sea and land with
medical supplies to begin a hospital in
Marash.
	More physicians are on the way and
others are being procured to report to Dr.
Harris, who has taken a part of his men to
Zeltoun, forty miles distant where 3,000
are reported ill. The result of his investi-
gations can only reach us later. In all
Asia Minor there is no other organized body
of medical relief. We have obligated our-
selves for its entire expenses, medical sup-
plies, transportation, hospital arrangements,
salaries and traveling expenses of physicians
and all necessary cost of communication
between the various points.
	Our first order for physicians was for six
in number with two druggists and supplies.
The number of physicians should at least
be doubled and every effort is being made
to that end.
	The reported number of deaths has been
for some time from 75 to 100 daily. No
one so well as ourselves can recognize the
responsibility. But the conditions are here
and we are here alone to meet them. We
can only tell them to the world outside and
stand firm in our work from day to day
trusting by the mercy of heaven to attain
some measure of success.
	(Signed)			CLARA BARTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON Camilla).  Editorial Contributor, 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build- 
tng, Main Street, oppposite Z.C.M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY, 15, 1896


TWENTY FOUR YEARS.

	THE present number of the paper com-
pletes the 24th volume of the EXPONENT;
ever since it first made its appearance on
the first day of June 1872, it has been un-
failing in its defence of truth and right.
On every question before the people and
especially those of the most vital importance 
to women and to humanity as a whole it
has been genuinely fearless.  Woman’s
organizations for charity,  philanthropy,
industry, education and literature have al-
ways been given honorable mention in its
columns. As a record of woman’s work in
all departments it has kept pace with the
times as reference to its columns testify.
Womens' missionary work at home and
abroad is given much space; minutes of
meetings and Conferences almost a complete
record. Biographical sketches of the most
eminent women of our time in the Church,
and in other great movements are to be
found in its pages, and many interesting
essays and poems of more or less merit of
home production.
	It has been the aim of the EXPONENT
from the beginning to foster and encourage
home talent, and it has not failed in this
respect, for some of the best writers Utah
can boast begun their literary work in this
homely little paper, and its good work in
this respect still continues. It was the first
woman’s paper, except one, established west
of the Mississippi, and it has never swerved
in its loyalty on the question of equal suf-
frage.
	The EXPONENT has found its way into
many high places as well as lowly ones, and
has visited nearly all the countries of the
world.  All the womens’ papers published
almost without exception exchange with it,
and many consider it one of their best ex-
changes because of its entire freedom from
anything like sensationalism.
	If the women of Utah and of the Rocky
Mountain region could realize what the
EXPONENT has done, and the influence it
carries abroad, they would certainly take
more pains and make a greater effort to sus-
tain it, and not let it lack for patronage. It
is really a positive necessity for a great or-
ganization like the Relief Society to have
such an organ, and the silk industry needs
it in order to help it forward, and especially
now that women have suffrage, do they
need such an opportunity for expression and
advancement as can only be obtained by
means of a woman's papers. One dollar a
year is very little to help sustain


a paper for your own benefit, or if you
do not need it there are others who do and
the larger the subscription the more can be
done in free distribution, for missionary
work, which is always a consideration. Do
not grow weary in well-doing but help sus-
tain that which will be a history of the wo-
men of this age and period for such cer-
tainly is the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SIXTY YEARS OF WEDDED LIFE.

JOSEPH AND M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	THE anniversary sixty years after of the
marriage of two noted pioneers of Utah,
Brother and Sister Horne, was celebrated in
this city May 9, 1896. The event was
unique in itself, as it is an exceptional thing
for two people to live together for three-
score years.
	Brother and Sister Horne came to the
valley in 1847, only two months subsequent
to the arrival of the pioneers, and it was
this company of stalwarts who came at that
time who did the early formative work in
this City. They built the fort, they killed
the crickets, they built bridges, and did all
sorts of pioneering, enduring hardships un-
told, laying the foundation for those who
came afterward. All honor we say to these
valiant veterans and to those associated with
them.
	The wedding anniversary day was kept
in a fitting manner, their children and
children’s children were around them, af-
fectionately greeting them and presenting
gifts and tokens of love, and themselves
made it a happy occasion. Some of them
came long distances, even from other States,
to pay their respects and meet with their
honored and beloved parents.
	A banquet was prepared for the evening
and as many intimate friends invited outside
the family as could be accommodated in a
private residence; certainly the banquet was
of the most delightful as well as the most
delicious character, and served by loving
hands, daughters and sons and grandchild-
ren of the family. The tables were decor-
ated with flowers, and cards with the name
of the guest, dates 1836-1896, were laid by
each plate. President Joseph F. Smith
pronounced the blessing which was a most
eloquent prayer as well as blessing. But
the feasting was not the only pleasant
feature of the evening. There were
speeches and songs and music at intervals,
and conversation which added to the delight
of all present.
	The evening exercises were conducted by
the eldest son present Bishop Joseph
Horne of Richfield, Sevier Co. who acquit-
ted himself admirably in every particular,
as master of ceremonies. President Angus
M. Cannon, in his characteristic way, gave
the toast to the aged couple, which virtually
expressed the sentiments of all present, who
had for so many years been associated in
the most pleasant relations with Brother and
Sister Horne. Dr. Elvira S. Barney read
REMINISCENCES composed by herself, that
seemed to embody every event of their long
and useful lives and commemorated as well as
many things of historical importance.
	One of the daughters Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey read a very telling poem by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, Mrs. E. B. Wells
read a short but comprehensive tribute to
Patriarch Horne, composed by Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball. Sweet songs were beauti-
fully rendered by George D. Pyper and Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cornelia H. Clayton and Mrs. Martha H.
Tingy, one of them being “The Old
Home” by two of the daughters; and instru-
mental music by others of the family en-
livened the program. A poem by Mrs. E.
B Wells (which she designated a love story)
was read by her during the evening’s enter-
tainment, but there was not nearly time for
all that had been prepared. President
Joseph E. Taylor offered the benediction at
the close before the departure of the guests.
Br. and Sister Horne looked as charming
and as handsome, and as happy as though
this had been their wedding day, instead of
the sixtieth anniversary, and no one who
saw them, could say old age is not beauti-
ful; with the beauty of the years that have
left their impress upon the faces and forms
of those who have lived pure and saintly
lives. What can be more beautiful than
such a living picture. There is nothing
more noble or more desirable than to be
able to look back upon such a life in the
evening of one’s days. And for this among
the many other things accomplished the
many friends of Br. and Sister Horne con-
gratulate them, and wish them continued
happiness and prosperity during the remain-
der of their sojourn here. The following
poem was written for the wedding anniver-
sary party but the evening was far too short
for the expression of good feeling and kind-
ly sentiment by all who were desirous of
showing their love and appreciation.

			SIXTY YEARS.

FULL sixty years of life together
Through both fair and stormy weather;
Full sixty years has the grass grown green,
And sixty snows lie deep between.
Look backward to days on the long dusty road,
Where together you’ve borne this life’s heavy
	load;
Scan all the dark places you’ve safely passed o’er,
Where the storm clouds hang darkly behind and 
	before.
Then think of the sunshine that has glinted be-
	tween,
The warm summer breezes, ambrosial serene;
And then of the lessons you’ve learned by the way
Though sent in love’s kindness, yet hard to obey.
Now remember your children, dear pledges of
	love,
Choice gifts of a father that dwells up above;
How cheerful your hearth, how happy your home,
Where love and devotion ever hath shone.
Sigh softly for those you have laid in the earth;
Whose love was so dear from the hour of their
	birth;
But they have gone on a place to prepare,
For father and mother and loved ones to share.
The Gospel light was given to you
Down in your hearts you knew ’twas true
You left your home and friends behind,
Far in the West the Church to find.
The Prophet's voice fell on your ears,
You hear it yet through changing years;
When in Nauvoo dark shadows fell
E’en now, though sad, the tale you tell.

God bless the noble Pioneers
Who left Nauvoo in blood and tears;
And on that bitter, stormy night,
Began that dreary, lonely flight.
God bless them? Yes! a hundred fold;
For cause of Truth they stood so bold;
Far out on Western barren plains,
On the breeze rang out the “Mormon” strains.


Now here in Utah’s peaceful vales,
Where cheer and plenty never fails,
With sons and daughters all around,
With the Saints of God you still are found. 
The sun now shining in the West,
With glory bathes the mountain crest;
And yet beyond, just over there
Lies a land more glorious, bright and fair.
Tis the land where all the faithful meet,
And loving friends each other greet;
'Tis the land where the loved and lost are found,
And all things fair, for aye, abound.
God love you now and ever more!
His choicest gifts, too, we implore:
And life as long as sweet to live,
And then the rest that Heaven can give.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Loving thoughts to Patriarch and Sister Horne
on the Sixtieth Anniversary of their wedding day.
	May 9th, 1896.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Juvenile Instructor office have now
in type a poem in pamphlet form by Mrs.
Lydia. D. Alder (a story in verse) giving a
description of the visit of the Tabernacle
Choir to California. It is a graphic account
of the tour made and is of historical inter-
est to our people. It is dedicated to Prof.
Evan Stephens. The price per copy will
be 10,cts.,the cover is noticable and title
taking “Mormon Tabernacle Choir” (in
California.)
	THE visit of Mrs. Laura M. Johns’ Na-
tional organizer and lecturer in our City
was a pleasant occurrence. While here she
was the guest of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox gave a reception at her
home the evening of May 13th, in honor of
Mrs. Johns’ and of Dr. Elliott, at which
the guests had the pleasure of hearing from
both these distinguished women. Mrs. F.
S. Richards who is also a National organizer
will go into Idaho with Mrs. Johns, they
expect to leave the 17th of this month.
		MINERVA W. SNOW.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Minerva White 
Snow, who was born March 22nd, 1822, in
Northbridge, Worcester County, Mas-
sachusetts. Her maternal grand-father,
Jabez Wing, was a direct descendant of the
early Puritan settlers who had left England
to escape religious persecution. Her grand-
mother, Patience Mowry, was also des-
cended from old New England stock and
was born in Providence R. I. 1765.
	Her parents, Alden and Achsah White,
were natives of Northbridge, Mass. They
were moral and religious people but were
not members of any church until the sub-
ject of this sketch was eighteen years of
age, when the family were converted to the
Mormon faith and emigrated to Nauvoo,
Where they resided until their co-religionists
were expelled from the state.
	In January, 1846, the daughter Minerva
was married to Erastus Snow, a man of re-
markable ability and who held the office of
Apostle in the Church. Mr. Snow was
born in Vermont, but his ancestors were
among the Pilgrim settlers of the Masssa-
chusetts colony.
	Directly after their marriage they took up
their line of march through the wilderness
that intervened between the Mississippi and
the haven of rest they expected to find on

[Column 2]
the Western slope of the Rocky Mountains.
Mrs. Snow remained at Winter Quarters
(now called Florence)  while her husband
accomplished the journey to the Salt Lake
Valley with the Pioneers, entering the
valley in company with Orson Pratt, three
days before the arrival of the main body of
the company, on July 21st, 1847.
	The hardships and privations of the next
few years are a matter of history, although
perhaps the half has not been told.
	In 1861 it was thought advisable to
colonize the valleys of the Rio Virgen and
Santa Clara in Southern Utah for the culti-
vation of cotton and semi-tropical fruits.
President Brigham Young, recognizing the
excutive ability of Mr. Snow as a pioneer
and colonizer requested him to take charge
of the enterprise, which he did, Mrs. Snow
accompanying him and sharing his labors
in redeeming the desert. She suffered very
much from the heat of the climate and
other causes, but was uniformly brave and
cheerful and accomplished much good dur-
ing her sojourn in the “Mormon Dixie.”
She was President of all the branches of
the Relief Society in Southern Utah and
held other positions of trust and honor.
Mr. Snow represented the Southern
counties for many years in the upper House
of the Utah Legislature. He was a warm
advocate of equal suffrage and was a
member of the legislature which conferred
this right upon the women of the Territory.
In 1875 Mrs. Snow in company with her
husband visited her childhood’s home in
Northbridge, Massachusetts. Also visited
her sister Mrs. Anna Payne, and some days
later visited her youngest sister Susan
Wade in Medford, Mass. She spent some
time in New England while her husband
was absent in Denmark. (He sailed from
New York three days after their arrival in
Northbridge.) He returned in July and
accompanied by his wife visited his relatives
in Vermont and Canada; started for home
August 25th, and arrived in due time.
For some years after her return from the
East, Mrs. Snow spent the greater part of
her time traveling with her husband visit-
ing Old Mexico, Arizona and various parts
of Utah, until the death of her husband
which occurred May 27th, 1888.
	Mrs. Snow is widely known and univer-
sally respected; is now a vice-president of
one of the most flourishing States in
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
is a firm believer in the principles of equal
suffrage. She is often seen at the bedside
of the sick and the dying and is ever ready
with words of sympathy and consolation
wherever occasion requires. She is pass-
ing the evening of her days in peace and
quietness, hopefully looking forward to a
reunion with the loved ones who have gone
before.
	Minerva White Snow died of Pneu-
monia at Manti, SanPete Co., Utah, April
1st, 1896, Wednesday at 2-40 after this
sketch was written.


[Column 1]
MRS. BROWN'S LETTER.

To the U. W. P. Club, From Wash-
	ington D. C.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	In letters received from home so many of
my friends ask me what I do with myself,
where I go and who I see. I have thought
often of the Utah Press Club and have in-

[Column 2]
tended writing them ever since I came, but
before doing so I wanted to visit the Na-
tional Association, as I have given myself
that pleasure, I send you this letter and
it you think best you can read it at the
next club meeting. Sincerely,
Isabel Cameron Brown.

	MRS. LOCKWOOD invited me to go to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday Evening at
the Riggs’ House Parlors. It was a very
hot uncomfortable evening; but the parlors
were full to overflowing. I met many
bright and distinguished women—a great
many have gained distinction in the literary
world. It was an open meeting in honor
of its President Mrs. Hannah B. Sperry
who with Mr. Sperry and her son go to
Europe the 24th of April, they have a son
I believe who represents the Government
in Scotland—they will be absent about
four months. The wife of Senator elect
Money—of Miss. Claudia B. Money gave a 
most interesting paper, “Impressions of
Hawaii"—she is a sweet looking, very un-
assuming woman. Mr. A.F. Sperry,a paper.
(I could not just see where he came in,as it
was a woman’s meeting) but it was a well
prepared paper and well given. An 
original poem was read by the writer
Marian Longfellow O’Donoghue, who
writes under the name of “Miriam Lester,”
she is a niece of the Poet Longfellow, a 
handsome and striking looking woman, and
very active here in public works, pertain-
ing to women. Miss B. V. Sherwood
(Sherwood Vane) gave a humorous sketch
of ghosts. She described the performances
given by Anna Eva Fay as we saw them
in the Salt Lake Theater a few years ago.
Mary Frost Ormsby gave a talk on her trip
to Europe when she went as a delegate to
some convention. Nearly every one of the
ladies that I met knew Mrs. Wells person-
ally and all said such nice things about her.
One of the members of this association is
Mrs. M. D. Hall. Mrs. Hall has been a 
guest in Salt Lake City of the Wells’ family
her husband is a cousin of D. H. Wells'.
	I went Saturday as a guest of Rosa Wright
Smith, one of the most charming women I
ever met, to a reception given by the mem-
bers of the “Mary Washington Chapter D.
A. R.,” at the Woman’s Club House 1710
I St. This Club House filled my soul with
delight, and it is what we all so need and
want in Salt Lake, it was rented for this
occasion, there was music, (and I noticed
no patriotic airs were sung) and ices and
lemonade served. Mrs. Smith is a dis-
tinguished woman. She lives in a charm-
ing home on A. St. with her father General
H. G. Wright, he is one of the most dis-
tinguished army men left. General Wright
commanded Blandensborg, preventing the
rebels from capturing Washington City.
Mrs. Smith is a "Colonial Dame" and has
been Corresponding Secretary to the
National G. A. R. I met the other day
when paying a visit to Secretary Morton’s
the woman that I think has interested me 
the most of any that I have yet met (not
excepting Mrs. Cleveland.) Mrs. Wilcox,
she was born in the White House, her
father was an adopted son of Andrew
Jackson. Her father ran for Vice Presi-
dent with Fillmore and was minister to
Germany, she knew all the great men of
her day and has a charming way of telling
about them. A friend took me one morn-
ing to Mrs. Caroline H. Dalls class, twenty-
five ladies meet each Wednesday morning to


pursue a course of reading—a number of
the Senators daughters belong. It was a
rainy morning and the ladies had their
work. Mrs. Dall did the reading and
asked questions, they meet in her morning
room, current events were gone through
with, she doing all the reading, then the
business of the morning began, the read-
ing of (Madame D’Arblay) Fannie Burney’s
letters when at the Court of George the
III of England; Mrs. Dall commenting as
she read. Mrs. Dall told me she had been
in Utah and seemed t know a great deal
about you all, in fact nearly all or everybody
one meets here has been in Utah or has
relatives or friends there. Mrs. Cleveland
is yet at Woodly where she fled with the
children when measles broke out in the
White House. I received a nice letter
from her yesterday and she writes, “Ruth
and Esther both have had the disease and
both are out again, the little baby seems to
be going to escape. The children had good
thorough cases and I think in a few days
they will be as strong as ever.” The
sweetest thing I have yet seen in Washing-
ton is the three Cleveland children in the nursery. 
Ruth was born in Oct. 1891—
Esther Sept. 9th, 93—Marion July, 95.
Mrs. Cleveland has nursed all her children.
	I wish our Utah mothers could see how in-
expensively and plainly they were dressed
the day I saw them, not a bit of trimming or ,
a tuck or a ruffle on any one of the three;
they were jolly, wholesome and rather
dainty looking children. Ruth looks like
her mother, Esther has light hair. You see
Mrs. Cleveland has her hands full to say
nothing of her social duties. Her mother
Mrs. Perine is to me as interesting as the
daughter and they are wonderfully alike.
Mrs. Perine is a great favorite in Washing-
ton and goes about and makes visits in the
most sociable manner and so the people 
like her greatly. The Vice President’s 
family are also very democratic and very
much liked, they live at “La Normande” 
and are in mourning for a daughter but they 
go about as they like and every one's face
wears a smile when Mrs. Stephenson
comes near them.
	I want to say in closing, that the weather
has been abominable, the entertainments I
have been to are no nicer than ours in Salt
Lake; the people I have met are no brighter,
the women are not nearly as pretty—and
the Brown family are all anxiously longing
for the adjournment of Congress to get
back to dear old Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE BOOK OF MORMON.

(A Sacred Relic.)
	DID any one ever read this Book of
Mormon with an inquiring mind to know
why it was kept expressly for this period
of time, for this generation? Do they dif-
fer from other people, does not human
nature seem to be the same to day that it
has previously been for ages.
	Oh yes: but you will remember the Lord
said in the last days “He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh:” and now since
this has been done see how science has
flourished until, we are all captivated, by
science. So much so we have no time to
read sacred relics. O no! A grand display
of everything is the need of the hour today.
	Yet there are a portion of the people, who
believe in an Omnipotent Power called God.
These people can see the hand of God in
all things.

[Column 2]
	These people can see the prosperity of
having night as well as day, for night
brings a new lesson for them to learn, The
Solar System for instance which shows how
the planets revolve around the sun and then
our earth also is a planet, &c.
	Now when we contemplate these things
we see our Father’s designs and purposes
come in their own time and place; all for a
wise purpose known only to Himself, yet
being His children we learn them by ex-
perience; while He knows the results before
they are seen by us. He knew who
would accept of this sacred relic the Book
of Mormon and appreciate it too. He knew
it would be those who were firm believers
in our Savior’s teaching and his power to
do the mighty works he did, called miracles.
	Now the question arises. Why did the
angel tell Joseph (this boy not fifteen years
old then) after seeing the plates that it was
not time yet, until four years more, but he
must meet him once a year until this time
expired. Does not this show that there are
times and seasons for every purpose under
the sun?
	This then is an important era of time,
great events will transpire in these days,
not only by science which has captivated
the human family: but great calamities
which man cannot fathom and which stops
man in his wild career to call him to ac-
count how he has spent his talents and time
given him by his Creator, for the human
family take great credit to themselves be-
cause of their improvement in the sciences.
	Would it not be well then to be humble
since we claim God to be our Father: and
remember this life is a school where there
are so many lessons to learn, each of them
to fit us for some place in our Father’s
kingdom.
	This being the case let us beware of pride
which is the spirit of this world and not of
our Father. The Book of Mormon shows
this in terms so plain that you can not be
mistaken. What do we learn of those
people who came to this continent because
of their humility and faith in God? His
protecting hand was over them, how great-
ly they were blessed until they became
rich in worldly goods, then pride crept in
and envy, hatred and malice followed in its
train. 
	Then we see the words of the wise king
or prophet verified, who said “Pride comes
before destruction and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
	Now I would ask: What is our position
to day, do we ever hear said ‘I am proud of
this and that,’ yes proud of this gospel,
proud that God is our Father, I would
rather He would be proud of me and help
me to live so that His smile of approbation
may rest upon that I do or say, rather than
I should make a grand display with which 
I may dazzle the eyes of my friends. No
let them be friends because I have proved
myself worthy of their friendship.
	Please excuse me if I compare notes of
the time the Book of Mormon speaks of,
and the present time. We read in days of
King Mosiah who was a righteous man,
but was about to die: he recommended they
had no king excepting he was a righteous
man because a wicked king would bring
much destruction upon the people, he
thought judges would be best.
	While he had been king the laws were
just laws, and peace prevailed, he said if
your judges do not judge by the law which
has been given, ye can cause them to be
judged by a higher law, and if this fail ye

[Column 3]
can bring a few of these judges together
and they shall judge by the voice of the
people. (Page 231 Book of Mosiah.)
	Now Alma was the first chief judge and
we learn from the book of Alma that a man
by the name of Korihor did not believe in
God, but said it was a foolish tradition of
their fathers to deceive the people and so be
injurious to the people, and glut themselves
on the labors of the people. Alma said to
him you know better, we do not take one
senine for our labors only for the time we
are on the judgment seat, but we work for
our support. That the people may not be
taxed so heavily. But Korihor would not
listen but must have a sign that there was a
God.
	Now Alma was grieved with his stubborn
will but being a righteous man asked God
to strike him dumb, it was done, then he
wrote saying he had been told by a person
to teach these words and was so successful
he began to believe it himself. Here he
saw his errors and that by the power of
God.
	Here we learn from this ancient history
how the Lord can bless the righteous, the
upright, and just and bring to naught the
designs of wicked men. The book of
Mosiah is beautiful on this subject.
	But grandeur and style has absorbed our
attention to that degree that this precious
book has been neglected, until we begin to
feel oppression in various ways, one in
particular is in building large and grand
structures which must be paid by taxes.
Another is the scientific machinery, by
which one man can do the work of five
men thus leaving those five men out of
work. Then how can these taxes be paid,
and obey the laws of God to feed and bless
the destitute.
	We read in yesterday’s paper that 300.000
dollars tax has been brought in, which is
only one third of taxes due to this city,
six hundred thousand remains due, in de-
linquent taxes. Yet every piece of property
is heavily taxed.
	How glad would we be to see those
days King Mosiah saw when he, although
their king was careful not to be oppressive
to the people in taxation. And when Alma
came to him to be instructed by him how to
judge a certain few King Mosiah says
“I judge them not, I leave this to yourself.”
	Alma was grieved but he went to God for
wisdom even as King Solomon asked God
for wisdom to judge Israel.
	They neither of them failed to get what
they asked because they were humble
and had faith in God our Father.
	Was there ever a book besides this book
which can so beautifully illustrate what we
are, and what we should be, to please our
Heavenly Father. I never saw its equal.
						M. E. K.


NEWS comes from Lexington, Ky., that
Col. W. C. P. Breckinridge is canvassing
his district again to run for Congress this
year, and the old movement of the women
in the district is being reorganized. They
will oppose the Colonel as they opposed
him two years ago. Then the race for
nomination between Breckinridge and Owens
was close. Now the friends of Kentucky’s
silver-tongued orator express the fullest
confidence in his success. He has been
practising law quietly for the last two years,
and seems to have worked off his memory
of the suit that caused Owens to beat him.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM

	MARY KENNET CULMER died April 18th, 1896
in this city. Mother Culmer, as she was affection-
ately called, was born at Luddenham, Kent
England, June 18th, 1824, and has been a member
of the Church for forty-three years. In the early
days of the Kentish conference, her hospitalities
to the missionaries were such as to be held in
grateful remembrance by many to this day. In
1868, she came to the valley with her husband and
these of her children who had not been sent on
before, and ever since has been an active and
much respected member of the twentieth ward,
where she endeared herself to all by her ready
sympathy and aid to the sick and afflicted.
Deceased was the mother of twelve children
fifty grand-children and twenty-five great-grand-
children.
	From noon until half-past 1 o’clock the remains
were on view at her late home, where many came
to pay their last respects, after which the body
was borne to the meeting house by her grand-
sons, followed my many of their descendants and
loving friends, including the members of the
twentieth ward Relief Society, who gathered in a
body out of respect to one who had been among
their most active co-workers.
At the funeral services, remarks were made by
Bishop George Romney and John Nicholsen, who
dwelt on the virtues and loving labors of Sister
Culmer, both for the living and the dead. Hymns
that had been selected by her before her death
were sung.
R.S. TwentiethWard, S. L. City.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES. 

	SISTER JANE HALL, died at Eager, Union
Ward, Apache Co., Arizona, April 5th, 1896, of
old age. She was born in North Carolina the 2nd
of March 1810. She joined the Church at an
early day and was with the Saints at Nauvoo and
was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph.
Smith and his family. She was one of the mem-
bers of the first Relief Society, she came to Utah
in 1852 and settled at Ogden. She was the
mother of ten children five of whom are now
living to mourn her loss; she spent the greater
part of her long and useful life among the sick
comforting and blessing them especially those of
her own sex, and was ever ready and willing to
do all she could for their relief. She was a faith-
ful wife, a kind and loving mother, and a true
friend, a faithful and conscientious Latter-day
Saint, and died as she had lived strong in the
faith. She had a happy, cheerful disposition and
made many friends.
	We do recognize in her death the severe loss
of a faithful and true friend to the sick and needy
and a comforter in the hour of trouble. We also
recognize in her faithful labors and devotion to
the cause of Zion an example worthy of the
emulation of each member of our society.
SARAH B. CROSBY,

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect adopted by the Of-
ficers and members of the Relief Society of South
Bountiful to the memory of Phebe N. Hatch who
died Feb. 9th, 1896; she was born Nov. 6th, 1850
in the fifteenth Ward Salt Lake City.
	Whereas, Sister Hatch one of our beloved
teachers has left this stage of action;
	Resolved that we recognize in the death of
Sister Hatch, the loss of a faithful and energetic
teacher, a friend to the needy, a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted mother, and a faithful
Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that we esteem her labors and devo-
tion to the interest of Zion as worthy the emula-
tion of every member of our society.
	Resolved that we condole and sympathize with
the bereaved children and friends in the loss of a
loving mother and sincere friend.  
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
our records, a copy sent to the bereaved family
and also one be sent to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
	SARAH A. HOWARD, 
	MARY A. PAGE,		}Committee.
	MARY E. TOMLINSON

	DIED at Concho, Apache Co. Arizona, April 8,
1896, at 1-30 a. m., Matilda P. Williams. She had
been troubled with heart disease for several
years which terminated in dropsy of the heart.
She had lived an exemplary and useful life, was
loved and respected by all who knew her; all that
loving hearts and hands could do, was done for

[Column 2]
her but she passed away like one falling asleep
without a struggle; she had desired not to get
helpless. She leaves one daughter, and one son,
also ten grand children. Three children having
preceded her to the other side. Also her
husband having passed away some thirteen years
ago.
	She was born in Vienna, Trumble County,
Ohio, January 26th, 1828, joined the Church at an
early age while in Ohio, removed with her
parents to Nauvoo, experienced all the persecu-
tions which the Saints were subjected to, received
her blessings and anointings in the Nauvoo
Temple. Mrs. Williams was the one that first
discovered the Temple to be on fire in time to
have it extinguished has always been a useful
and zealous worker in the Relief Society also a
dear lover of the EXPONENT, and was an oc-
casional contributor to its columns. She went
from Nauvoo to Missouri with her parents where
she became acquainted with and married George
Williams, remaining there until the year 1867. Re-
moved to Salt Lake City, then to Payson, Utah
County, afterwards to Salem, Utah County, at the
first organization of the Relief Society, she was
chosen as Secretary, which position she filled un-
til the year 1877. Her husband was called to
help settle Arizona. She was chosen President
of the first Relief Society at Brigham City
Arizona; which position she retained until the
year 1879, when she removed to Concho, Arizona,
where at the organization of the first Relief
Society, then she was again chosen President;
which position she faithfully filled until failing
health caused her to resign. She has comforted
many a troubled heart, both by her presence and
her pen. She did not cling to life as she had felt
very lonely since the death of her husband and
we feel assured that a just reward awaits her for
the labors she has done in the flesh.


MRS. CHAPMAN-CATT.

MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT, nee Carrie
Lane, Chairman of the Organization Com-
mittee of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, was born in Ripon,
Wisconsin, and lived in that state until
seven years old. Then her parents removed
to Charles City, Ia., which was her home
during most of her life. She was educated
at the Iowa State Agricultural College,
after which she took a special course in law.
For three years she served as principal of
the high school and general superintendent
of schools of Mason City, Iowa, at the end
of which period, in 1884, she was married
to Leo Chapman, editor of the Mason City
Republican. They were joint owners and
editors. At the end of the year they sold
this property, and Mr. Chapman went to
the Pacific Coast to find a more active field
of labor. While there he sickened with
typhoid fever, and died in San Francisco.
Mrs. Chapman remained in that city for a
year doing general newspaper work, and
was the first woman reporter in that city.
During her life there, she became familiar
with much of the hardships and privations
of working women in great cities, and for
the first time realized the fearful tempta-
tions which beset the poor girl thrown up-
on her own resources. Many sad cases of
despair which finally led to ruined charac-
ter, came under her direct notice. With the
finale of one particularly distressing circum-
stance of this nature, she resolved that the
remainder of her life, with whatever ability
God endowed her, should be expended in
making the working women of the United
States respectable and respected, and her
right to labor unquestioned. With this in-
tent she went upon the platform as a lec-
turer upon general topics, thinking to gain 
a foothold in this way. It was not long be-
fore the suffrage cause claimed her attention.
For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891, she married


George W. Catt, president of the New York
Dredging Co. He is as ardent a suffragist
as his wife, and aids her in her work in
every way possible. Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Republican State Convention of
California, in session at Sacramento on May
6, adopted the following resolution by an
almost unanimous vote:
	Resolved, That this Convention favors
the proposed amendment to the Constitution
of the State of California, whereby it is,
sought to extend the elective franchise to
all citizens of the United States, both men
and women. 
	DON'T let us say that we would’nt trust
onr daughters and our sons anywhere. Let
us keep our faith whole and unbounded in
them. But do let us revise our ideas a little
as to what is right and proper in our social
customs. If our social customs were not so
lax, if young girls were not left alone with
young men so often and for so long a time,
there would be fewer daughters of respectable
homes go astray. Mothers cannot longer
close their eyes to this question; the souls of
their daughters are in their hands, and they
owe it to themselves, to their daughters and
to society, to throw every possible protect-
tion around them.— Womankind.
	THE New York Woman’s Press Club is
one of the many clubs which have respond-
ed to Mrs. Henrotin’s letter, sent out in
January to the “Federated Clubs,’’ urging
them to hold “peace meetings.’’ This club
held its peace meeting, sang patriotic songs
and then passed the following resolutions
with great unanimity: 
	Resolved, That the Women’s Press Club
of New York has two fights on hand—one
with Turkey, for the rescue of the Arme-
nians; the other with Spain, for the inde-
pendence of heroic little Cuba. When these 
are satisfactorily settled it will joyfully
welcome a peace jubilee. In the mean
time it heartily responds to the demand for
an international court of arbitration, and
looks upon “talk” of war, on the part of
nations or individuals, in regard to ques-
tions capable of peaceful solutions, as a blot
upon our nineteenth century civilization.
Resolved, That the thanks of all clubs of
women are due to Mrs. Henrotin, the presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s 
Clubs, for affording the opportunity of an
expression of opinion from 50,000 women
in regard to the preservation of the mani-
fold blessings of peace, in which women
and the homes they specially represent, are
so vitally interested.
	MISS ANTHONY, president of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association;
Mrs. Ellen Sargent and Mrs. Austin
Sperry, president and treasurer of the Cali-
fornia W. S. A.; Mrs. Knox Goodrich, of 
San Jose, Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Mary
G. Hay and Mrs. Ida A. Harper attended
the California Republican State Convention,
with a view to securing a woman suffrage
plank. The San Francisco Call says:
“Scarcely did they put up their placard in
the lobby of the Golden Eagle, stating that 
their headquarters were in parlors C, D and
E on the third floor, before they began to be
visited by the gentlemen delegates. They
went in two’s and three’s, in large groups,
and sometimes entire delegations went to
pay homage to these more modest workers


and apparently to beg the privilege of serv-
ing them. Large numbers of Sacramento
ladies identified with the cause of woman suf-
frage went to the headquarters,and left many
a choice collection of Sacramento’s magnifi-
cent roses and other flowers as a token of
their good wishes.” The committee on
platform and resolutions gave a hearing to
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw, and Mrs. Har-
per, and to Mrs. Ballou and Mrs. Blinn of
the Women’s Republican League Associa-
tion. Miss Anthony presented a petition
with 22, 000 signatures. She said these had
been somewhat hurriedly gathered, as it
had not been supposed that the convention
would meet so early, but it was the largest
petition ever presented in California on the
subject.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W.S.A.	
THE long expected visit of Mrs. Laura
M. Johns national organizer is now a 
thing of the past.
	Meetings were held in the Stake House
on the 18th and 19th of April. An or-
ganization was effected at 2:30 p. m. of the 
latter date, with sixty-three members.
	The following officers were elected for
the ensuing year. President Mrs. Henrietta
Hall, Vice President, Mrs. Mary Jane West
Cor. Sec. Miss Nellie Hunt, Rec. Sec Miss
Bashie Smith, Treasurer M. Flake and 
Auditor, Mrs. May H. Larsen.
	We found Mrs. Johns to be a very in-
teresting lady, and very much in earnest in
the suffrage movement.
	Mrs. M. J. West, Emma S. Smith and 
Sarah Driggs, were appointed to organize 
in the surrounding country, and have al-
ready organized the Ladies at Pinedale.
			NETTIE HUNT, Cor. Sec.
Snowflake, Arizona, May, 22, 1896.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE OF THE N.A.W.S.A.

	(Continued.).
	MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE
"Was next introduced. She spoke as fol-
lows:
Ladeis and Gentlemen: 
	This Conference has been, so far, an ex-
perience meeting that I think I might be
pardoned if I myself make a personal allu-
sion to one of our leaders in the suffrage
work.
	It was my good fortune while in college,
to hear an address by Rev. Anna Shaw,
delivered before the students in chapel.
Among other things she related her strug-
gles while in college.
	She said that any woman who would
make anything of herself in the world must
work and struggle with difficulties, and she
gave an illustration in her own winning
way. She said when other girls in school
were wearing their dresses cut on the bias,
hers were cut on the straight, and when
others were cut on the straight, she found
that she had gotten hers cut on the bias.
(Laughter) So we must all make sacrifices,
if we wish to do things worthy of note.
An old judge said to me recently, “Don’t
talk to the men any more about suffrage,
talk to the women.” He was referring to
the recent municipal election in Ohio; he
seemed to forget that the women there went
out to vote in the pouring rain, and one
woman was so eager to cast her vote that

[Column 2]
she got to the polls before they were open.
I think it is well to say a few things to wo-
men on this subject, because they are not
all convinced that they ought to vote. In
my opinion, one of the greatest obstacles
that stands in the way of some wom n
favoring woman suffrage, is that they think
the Bible is opposed to any independent
action on the part of women; for instance
when St Paul gave the injunction that women
were to keep silent in the churches, he did not
mean that women for all time were to keep
quiet, but simply that women of that time
and place should not appear in public on
account of some impropriety they had been
guilty of. It may seem unnecessary to re-
fer to this but in a recent standard magazine
I found an article which I deem unworthy
of the pen of the eminent writer. I refer
to Mr. Boyesen’s article on the “Matrimon-
ial Puzzle" in the February number of the
North American Review. He saye:
	“Women of the upper classes have been
petted and defered to almost from baby-
hood, and have been taught to regard them-
selves as privileged persons. Every stone
is carefully removed from their path, reality
is expurgated for their benefit, their very
religion is refined and tempered to their
delicate constitutions, etc. But it is un-
doubtedly true that as individuals they
have lost rather than gained by being
shielded and protected from all rude and
painful contact with reality. You can-
not artificially limit experience without im-
pairing growth, diminishing the chances of
survival, and blighting the germs of char-
acter.”
	How true to fact and how strongly
stated! The false conclusion of the writer
is all the more surprising:
	”If they (women) desire equality, inde-
pendence and development of individuality
(which is surely a legitimate desire) they
ought to have the courage to face celibacy
and renounce matrimony; for equality in
matrimony is an irridescent dream. Love,
permit me to humbly remonstrate, delights
not in self-assertion, but in self-surrender,
and all this loud trumpeting of indepen-
dence will make the shy little god hang his
head with shame; if it does not frighten
him away altogether.”
	Then Mr. Boyesen goes on to draw a
picture of a middle aged statesman and his
serene wife whose love for her lord is as
simple and natural as Eve’s love was for
Adam before the serpent began to talk
philosophy to Eve. “It was after the fatal
discourse on the higher education that their
matrimonial sky darkened and troubles be-
gan to thicken. Then the raven croaked
in the Garden of Eden, the nightingale
sang out of tune, and the turtle doves fell
to quarreling in the Tree of Knowledge.
Matrimony had become a problem.” 
	And so matrimony becomes a problem
when women become enlightened! In
other words, to make marriage a success,
women must be densely ignorant. The
women who insist upon improving them-
selves must bravely face celibacy. A fine
position indeed for eighteen hundred and
ninety-five! He says that every bachelor
is a skulker, but he holds that every wo-
man who means to make something of her-
self must renounce matrimony. It seems
to me, on the other hand, that every wo-
man who renounces matrimony for selfish
purposes is a skulker also. I don’t refer to
those women who, like St. Paul, have
sacrificed everything for their life-work, but

[Column 3]
the ordinary woman is intended for mar-
riage, I cannot understand why men talk
so much about the domestic woman, why
they marry the Dora that Dickens tells us
about and just as soon as they get that do-
mestic woman bound to them, they leave
her for the saloon or club. If woman were
a true companion her hnsband would never
leave her for other selfish pleasures.
	I read a pretty story recently about the
Burmese ladies. We think that over there
in Burmah they are very far behind the
times, it will no doubt surprise you as it did
me to learn that the Burmese have equal
privileges for both sexes.
	When a Burmese maiden makes up her
mind that she is ready to marry, they have
a pretty custom of placing a candle in the
window and at this signal the suitors begin
to present themselves for approval.
	It seems to me that in this country when
a maiden feels that she is ready for mar-
riage if her lamp could be lighted by intelli-
gence and common-sense that the marriage
relation would be more enduring, 
	So much was said during the Constitu-
tional Convention especially by the hero
Roberts about woman suffrage breaking up
the family. This is such a hackneyed ob-
jection that I don’t wish to devote much
time to it, but so much was said upon the
subject during the debate in the Convention
that I think it is well to refer to this point.
	I read a statement a short time ago in
reference to divorces in Wyoming claiming
that there were fewer divorces there in
proportion to the population than in any
other state in the Union. How does that
look for breaking up families?
	Mr. Roberts also had a great deal to say
about Tennyson, and often quoted him to
show his ideas of the position of women.
Now I should like to read a few extracts
from Emerson(and you all well know that
if there ever was a man in this world that
was well poised and well balanced that
man was Emerson) in his lectures on “Pro-
gress of Culture” delivered before a college
class away back in 67, he says;
	“The new claim of woman to a political
status is itself an honorable testimony to
the civilization which has given her a civil
status new in history. Now that by the
increased humanity of law she controls her
property, she inevitably takes the next step
to her share in power. (She has had a
hard fight for it.)
	We wish to put the ideal rules into prac-
tice, to offer liberty instead of chains, to see
whether liberty will not disclose its proper
checks; believing that a free press will
prove safer than the censorship to ordain
free trade, and believing that it will not
bankrupt us, universal suffrage, believing
that it will not carry us to mobs or back to 
rings again. I believe that the checks are
as sure as the springs.” (Applause.)


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

