[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: A FEW DAY'S JOURNEY. | Author: Unknown]

A FEW DAY'S JOURNEY.

	What a difference a few miles will make
in surrounding scenery as you travel along,
and what is still more curious difference al-
so in climate, temperature and growth of
vegetation. Taking a north westerly course
from Fillmore, our route lay for the most
part through a vast tract of land covered
with grease wood, a miniature forest, in-
terspersed with broken glades grassy and
green, with now and then a flower lifting
its modest head to grace the beauty of the
scene; groups of trees, hill and dales, make
up the resemblance.


[Column 1]
	From this we passed over what is called
Rush Lake, now evidently completely
changed from what it was when first named,
as there is but little moisture remaining,
only a damp, rough and barren piece of
ground, with here and there bunches of de-
caying rushes. Here I met with a beauti-
ful plant growing near the outer edges,
which closely resembled the common dew
plant, though much more beautiful, having
very large handsome leaves and a small
starry flower.
	Crossing some sand hills we had a smooth
road for a few miles, then rocky black vol-
canic rock, which is considered very good
for building purposes; being porous it is not
apt to be so damp as the more solid material.
On our left, a huge mountain uprose, appar-
ently composed principally of sand stone;
the top of which the wind had swept into
queer cone shaped hills and hollows. Pres-
ently we came in sight of a beautiful lake,
on whose broad expanse sky, mountain
and tree were reflected as in a mirror; geese
and ducks, with other wild fowls were spor-
tively dipping and diving; who can com-
plain of want of water here? said we, but
alas! our lovely lake grew and less as 
we approached, until our eyes beheld (what
is called hereabouts) Mud Lake, and our
trees were sage brush, our water fowl a few
scattered rocks and stones. This so called
lake, is a large clear spot entirely destitute
of vegetation; varying in width from one
and a half, to two miles, and from six to
eight miles in length; it is of a chalky
whiteness interspersed with spots of slate
color, which combined, give the illusive ap-
pearance of water when seen at a certain
distance; very soft all seasons of the year,
and impassable in very wet weather; com-
posed of sand and chalk mixed with various
mineral substances of a soft nature. Gov-
ernment has not as yet surveyed this por-
tion of  country, and we know not what may
lie beneath this extraordinary composition.
The road at last brought us to another for-
est of grease wood, which appeared delight-
ful, being of a fresh green, exceedingly
restful to the eye after enduring the glare
of the sunlight on the mysterious Mud
Lake. Here on the banks of the Sevier
River are the remains of Deseret City, where
an immense amount of labor was expended
years ago which proved an entire failure;
the Sevier being an exceedingly treacher-
ous stream, and the people unacquainted
with any plan by which to secure a firm
bulwark against the water, unlike the little
animal called the beaver, which I am told
has formed dams at some point or points,
farther on toward the river's source. This
place is thirty-five or forty miles from Fil-
more. From this to Oak Creek, a distance
of about twenty-five miles north of East,
our road passed through sand hills and hol-
lows; within six miles of Oak Creek the
wind comes down through a gap in the
mountains and passing through a gentle
hollow, plays fantastic tricks with the sand
alternately tearing down, and building up;
scooping out and separating the white sand
from the black in a curious manner, form-
ing hills, the size of a small log cabin, only
a few rods distance from each other.
	Oak Creek is a small settlement nestling
closely to the mountain side, corn and su-
gar cane grow well here, with plenty of
vegetables; the inhabitants have built a
bridge over the Sevier river so as to cut off
some miles of travel to Sanpete Co., where
they go yearly to exchange corn and mo-
lasses, for wheat and flour. Fish in abun-
dance is caught from the river.
	The people are evidently wide awake in
their interests for the St. George Temple;

[Column 2]
The widow came also with her mite; they
gave liberally according to their means.
Bro. John Dudson of this place is making a
collection of ancient relics, found in plow-
ing his land; they are quite interesting.
More anon.		As ever yours,
						A. B. C.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE KINDERGARTEN—UTILIZING
			PLAY.

	The desideratum with intelligent and
thoughtful trainers of these active little
folk—it being the main point, that they
are always doing something—is to make
what they do tell to advantage in their un-
folding ; to educate them not so much
by books and homilies as by practical illus-
tration and example adapted to their un-
derstanding and always nicely graduated to
that. "A child at play is histrionic. He
personates characters with costume and
mimic gesture. He also undertakes to rep-
resent whatever thing interests his mind by
embodiment of it in outward form." But
child's play does not end in itself, and Froe-
bel has taken full advantage of this under-
lying fact of childish being. Children, as
we all notice, delight in movement; they ob-
serve keenly; they also invent and construct
—all this naturally and spontaneously. The
child that does not love play is not, cannot
be a healthy child. But the "plays" of
Froebel's Kindergarten are with profound
philosophy systematized and possess a far
deeper significance than to while away the
time.
	The location of the Kindergarten should
be carefully selected, should be as little pub-
lic as possible, the building so constructed
and arranged as to meet the requirements
of health, freedom and comfort, in order
that the children may have undisturbed en-
joyment of their own little world. The
hall itself must be light and airy, spacious
enough to afford room for marching, danc-
ing and plays, especially in rainy and in-
clement seasons. There should also be
a large and shady yard or garden for
frequent out-door exercises. It is very
desirable that the hall, besides its necessary
furniture of large, low tables and benches,
blackboards, charts, etc., should be adorned
with flowers and pictures, rendered attrac-
tive in every way and calculated to call forth
and minister to the growing taste and sense
of beauty in the child. The hall, with its
appurtenances, should always be kept in
proper condition—so far as practicable by
the little ones themselves—that habits of
cleanliness and order may be early instilled
and naturally developed. A piano-forte is
an invaluable adjunct of the Kindergarten,
of which music and singing form one of the
main features.
	Leaping on tables and over benches, rac-
ing, whooping, tearing of clothes, indeed
all the rudeness and boisterousness insepara-
ble from undisciplined natures, whether
youthful or adult, are "ruled out" of the
well-ordered Kindergarten, from the fact
that music accompanies the gymnastics and
intersperses all the exercises, and from the
further fact that so much of healthful free-
dom and variety of occupation are afforded.
The administration of the true Kindergar-
ten being guided by love, gentleness and
well-regulated and fixed purpose, conduct-
ed free of all needless restraint, and still
avoiding, on the other hand, confusion and
disorder, there naturally springs up on the
part of the child a feeling of delight and
affection toward the teacher and toward one
another.
	It is indispensable that the teacher be al-

[Column 2]
ways the first on the spot, not only for the
purpose of getting everything in readiness
for the operations of the day, but also that
her own mind and thoughts be perfectly
calm and composed, for she must feel her-
self for the time being at least, the little
one's truest friend. The children on enter-
ing are expected to be clean and tidy, the
teacher—however ngracious this portion
of her task may possibly be—also discour-
aging all extravagance or gaudiness of at-
tire with which some foolish, short sighted
mothers delight to disfigure their offspring.
Of all resorts, a hall of learning should be
the last for such displays of fancy, and lit-
tle children should not be made to feel their
inequalities of social position by means of
them. The teacher welcomes each little
one alike with a smile and friendly greet-
ing, instructing them by example to return
the same, and at the appointed time order
is called. Then position; simultaneous ris-
ing and sitting without noise, all of which
requires quite a little time for drilling.
	Singing can be conducted by placing the
children in rows according to size and sex.
Then come various exercises alternating on
various days. As soon as the teacher ob-
serves that the pupils grow fatigued with
any one thing and become restless, the sub-
ject of the exercise should be changed rath-
er than let the children give up their occu-
pation regrettingly, thus retaining within
them a longing for "what comes next," and
not feel bored or worried, which is a sure
way to make them lose interest. The ma-
terials (or Toys) pertaining to a successful
management of the institution are many
and various, but all of a character to gradu-
ally develop the infantile faculties in com-
paring and organizing figures of all kinds
according to the laws of form and color,
either by imitation, or in already advanced
stages, by their own unaided invention.
And here it may be remarked that all occu-
pations in the Kindgergarten are called
"plays," and the materials for occupation
"gifts." These I shall explain in a third
and, for the present, concluding article.
				    CAMILLA C. COBB.


