[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 26 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short | Story Contest]
[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]

Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest I was bringing grandpa home to live with us, and I hadn't even talked it over with Jim. Grandpa was asleep on the back seat now, as the tires whispered on the highway, unraveling it around gently rising hills and spinning it out in a gray-black ribbon up the valley behind. Asleep. Like a child, I thought, trusting the dangers of the road to another's hands. At the beginning we trust so much, we need so much. Calves, lambs, babies — all knowing that if they call for help there is something — an inborn something — in another that will answer their need. But at the end — why is there no answer? "Come on," I. Said _ aloud, switching on the radio, ''what is there about driving on a long road that brings out the philosopher in me? As Jim would say, 'My feet just don't fit on a limb.' " I wished that a_ telephone booth — a real one — would pop up in one of the heat mirages that made shimmering lakes in the road ahead. I needed to hear Jim's voice. After fifteen years of marriage, the tone of a voice tells a lot. It would tell me how Jim felt about Grandpa coming to us. I had tried to call, but, of course, Jim, children, everyone had been in the hay field. A telegram that the operator would call to the ranch had been the best I could do. "Listen, Hon," Jim said, after he had read Aunt Liz's letter, "why don't you get in the car and drive on down? She's right, you know, some of us should be there, and your Mom being in the hospital and all. I wish I could be with you!"

But the hay was down, and we all scanned the sky each morn- 27 ing, hoping we could get the winter's supply of feed up before rain turned it to a musty, black waste. And Jim was the one who led the haying crew, early to late. My hands were sweaty and achy; I had gripped the steering wheel hard, thinking of the family meeting called to decide 'what to do about Grandpa." * * K T uty 'were all waiting when I got there, in the living room of the old house, with Grandpa on the other side of the sliding doors, waiting like the accused while the jury is out deliberating. "He simply cannot stay alone any longer," Aunt Liz had said, "it's a disgrace to the family, that's what it is! The things he does — people are starting to say he's — he's — well, funny. He 28 won't use the new range we got him — insists on building a fire in that old wood stove out in the cabin to roast those awful old potatoes, which he ~ certainly shouldn't eat at his age, half done and all. And he forgets — and with the fire and all." My cousin Claire broke in. "Sister Moss says she offered to do up his shirts and take his suit to the cleaners, but he told her his wife always sees to it that the family's clothes are ready for Sunday. That old suit — we tried to get him to buy a new one, but he wouldn't. And _ those awful old wide silk ties — spots of food spilled all over." Claire moved closer to Dick, there on the old leather lounge, and put her hand on his knee. "We took Dick's grandma to Resthaven the other day. It's as Dick says, they like to be with other old people. When there are little ones around you camt " Aunt Lucy couldn't wait to get in her two cents' worth. "You remember when we took him over Easter? Well, it didn't work out at all." Uncle Burt nodded his head up and down to reinforce his wife's words. As if he's about to shout Hallelujah and amen, I had thought. Aunt Lucy went on, 'When there're young people dating and all — so embarrassing. One night Ellie came home with her beau, and they were sitting out in the car and Father went out — in his nightgown, mind you — and told Ellie to come in the house. Burt and I weren't even home — and a mercy, probably, too, or I'm afraid there'd have been words! He acts as if he can't hear, but if you notice, he can hear what he wants to — like Ellie's beau's car that night. I tell you, there's no house big enough for three generations!"' My Uncle Charles took his cue here. He built houses for a living. "That's just it," he said, "with these planned homes the way they are, there's no place to put extra people. They're built for a certain sized family, and that's it. Why, a family just about has to move when there's a new baby! Sure don't know where we'd put Papa — and I know youv're all in the same boat." While he was talking I had looked through the window at the log cabin just outside the yard fence.