Vol.52, No. 1 January Relief Society Magaine To each of you, each loved and loving sister, the General Board of Relief Society extends our warmest wishes for a joyous New Year. We acknowledge with gratitude your valued contributions to the success which has attended the work of Relief Society this past year and your support of its programs. Our prayer is that you have received benefit, your life has been blessed, your happiness increased, and your knowledge expanded. As the old calendar comes down, the year 1964 becomes history. One last look at the calendar pages reveals much that is worth remembering, many days to be treasured, and, perhaps, some that brought sorrow. Good memories remain to bring a glow to living. Rewarding growth, both spiritual and mental, becomes evident in an evaluation of a year's activities. Some of the past year may be what Emily Dickinson would call an "amethyst remembrance," jewel bright, with a touch of nostalgia and a whisper 'of melancholy among its beauties. "The past is prologue" Shakespeare elucidates. That which has gone before, the prefatory act upon which what will come is based, may make the future better if wisdom is gained and judgment attained. The new calendar goes up. Twelve, new pages appear marked off into 365 days, each of which is full of promise, offering precious time to learn, to do, to achieve. They offer opportunities to give, to serve, to receive, to extend the mind, to enlarge the soul, to fulfill in fuller measure potentialities of character. The new year lies ahead, a pathway to tomorrow. It is well to walk this path with faith. It is wise to observe the guideposts along the way. It is good to walk in the company of family and friends, all with the same worthy destination. It is joyous, indeed, to take the path that Jesus trod and follow in his footsteps. May 1965 bring you greater happiness, finer accomplishment, and more dedicated devotion to the gospel. Our sincere love bears our greetings. Affectionately, hc clef mea (278 a A SomO Nar anil S, Once a month The Relief Society Magazine comes to my door. It brings me joy and happiness, and even more, dt gives goad thoughts the whole day through And lifts my spirits when things go wrong, As they sometimes do. So let us read the Magazine, and 1 pray Our testimonies will be strengthened day by day. Donna Chadburn Roy, Utah I am a missionary: serving in the Southwest Indian Mission. When we 'give the Magazine to our contacts they thoroughly: enjoy it, and it is a great help to us in our -work. There was a young Hopi -lady who was. Burned very badly and had to stay in the hospital several months. Although she wasn't "a member, we gave her several issues of the Magazine to read. On our return visit, she was just bubbling over with enthusiasm, and -she showed us the stories and articles she had enjoyed so much. The happiness and warmth of the Magazine had helped to cheer her spirits and fill the long hours. Va Kaye Bonner Tuba City, Arizona This is the second year now that some kind and generous people have given me a-year's subscription to the Magazine. I feel so very grateful for these people, even though I do not know whom to thank. I feel a bond of closeness to all the wonderful missionaries who come over here and bring the gospel into our'midst. From the bottom of my heart thanks a lot. I just love to receive the Magazine. It has such a 'store of knowledge in its pages for us all. Joyce E. Ward Rockhampton Queensland Australia Although I am not a woman, and, in fact, have very little to do with the Relief Society, yet I would like to tell you how the Relief Society helps me. 1 am a missionary in the Alaskan-Canadian Mission. Up here many -of the 'people are not familiar with' the Church -and its organizations. The Magazine is an_ interesting, as well as practical way, for the people to-see the Church from the inside. It is a great aid to. Our missionary labors. Elder Tom Welch Juneau, Ataska I have just received my first copy of our delightful Magazine. As a very recent convert, I~am so pleased to have a source available that is both instructional and entertaining. 1 have so much to learn, but I am sure the Magazine will help me to gain -knowledge of our wonderful Church, and also give me practical help. I may yet learn to be a decent cook! Mrs.. Barbara A. Ezell Santa -Monica, California I cannot tell you: in words how much I enjoy the -wonderful stories and lessons in the Magazine. 1 have taken the Magazine for seven years, and haven't missed reading it from cover to cover within a few days after its arrival. I! Wish that all married women could -hhave this book in their homes, then perhaps their troubles would not seem so big and important if they had the Magazine to live by and be guided by. Mrs. Evan Coon Erda, Utah As far back as I can remember the Magazine has been a part of my life. In addition to being an inspiration in our home, it has 'also been a real help in preparing short talks for the various meetings we attend. I especially enjoy the poetry and have added many of the poems to my personal collection. —Mrs. Cristel Nielson Sagers Lynndyl,. Utah the Relief Society es22\n« SGM SEN Rhld OT I a RE 3) 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts ns Siting irgtiil re ee ae