[Vol26 | June 1939 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Article | Title: Brigham Young Looks Out Evans]

BRIGHAM YOUNG MONUMENT was unveiled July 20, 1897, as a part of the Jubilee Festivities commemorating the semi-centennial celebration of the entrance of the Pioneers into the valley of Salt Lake. Elder James H. Moyle, in behalf of the Brigham Young Memorial Association, presented the monument to the public, and President Wilford Woodruff proclaimed, "In the name of God I now unveil this monument," and the stars and stripes fell away from the heroic figure of Brigham Young. Governor Heber M. Wells then said: "I now accept this monument in honor of Brigham Young and the Pioneers.
"Let us, my fellow citizens, here and now, in the presence of these surviving pioneers, whose forms are bent with toil, whose heads are whitened by the frosts of time and whose hearts are throbbing with gratitude to God that they have lived to see this day—and in the presence of all this honorable attendance let us resolve to guard well this monument, to shield it from the vandal and the marauder, to keep it as a solemn trust, to treasure it as a sacred heritage.
"As we look upon its sculptural beauty, let the granite of its base, hewn from our own mountain fastnesses, denote the hardy heroism of the men and women who founded and reared this splendid commonwealth; and let the bronze statue, carved by our native sculptor (Cyrus E. Dallin), symbolize the civilization and culture to which our people have attained.
"And now let me indulge the hope that this monument may stand on this historic spot as stands these rugged hills—'rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun'; that it may endure as they endure down through the ages and be remembered ever as a tribute of respect paid by a grateful people to their pioneers, as an emblem of half a century of wisdom, progress and as an offering of peace and good will to the blended brotherhood of Utah."
Elder B. H. Roberts in the Tabernacle that afternoon in addressing the pioneers said, "... I congratulate you that the monument which you have erected speaks only of that which is good. It will not speak of man's victory over his fellows, it will not commemorate scenes of carnage and desolation, the groans of the dying and the shouts of the victors. It speaks of the triumphs of peace, of the victory of mind over matter, of fertility over sterility; such is the story it will tell to future generations..."
GOLDEN GATE INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION, ON TREASURE ISLAND, IN SAN FRANCISCO BAY, AS VIEWED FROM THE AIR (See article on Church Participation in this Fair on page 366.)
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI JUNE, 1939 No. 6