[Vol26 | June 1939 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Dime Is A Lot Of Wangsgaard]

What will I do with it now?" It did not occur to her to throw it away. A dime was a lot of money. She must keep it. She sat down on a tuft of grass to think over the new twist to her problem. She polished the dime on the grass and sat staring 378 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at its shining roundness. A dime was a lot of money, her thoughts repeated. It would buy a yard of lawn, two yards of calico, or a pound of beef—and now she was a dime ahead.. To charge more for her mother's asparagus, she reasoned, in order to get the meat for the family's Sunday dinner was one thing, but to do it to get a dime was quite another. She would have to give the coin to her mother, she knew, and what would her mother say? 'That depended, Judith judged, on what she told her mother.
Then a long chain of experiences began to drag across her brain. She had often been punished for having told family matters in the homes of relatives, like the time when she had told how much her father's check had been, and Aunt Geneva had told her mother. 'There was the time, too, when Aunt Geneva had "pumped" her to find out what her father's letter had said about the job and about Uncle Al. Of course, Judith reflected, her mother had not known about the "pumping" and about how Aunt Geneva had stretched what Judith really had told, so she could not blame her mother for the punishment. Now Judith remembered her mother's often reiterated question, "When will you learn not to tell all you know?"
That was an idea, she decided. She would tell only what she was forced to tell. She would give the dime to her mother when she got home, she concluded, tell as little as she could, and then meet what came. She could not sit here any longer. She opened her purse, wrapped the dime in her handkerchief, put it inside, and clipped the stiff catch.
Then she arose and scurried to make up for lost time. GHE had to pause on the porch to catch her breath.
When she entered the house, she found her mother making cookies. Her mother went on working while Judith unwrapped the meat for her inspection. "That's a fine boil,' she said. "You strike a good bargain, Judith."
Judith beamed with pleasure; the trip to town was paid for by that praise. She presented the calico. "Oh, how lovely!" her mother commended her again. "The tiny red vine in the pattern will work up beautifully. I couldn't have done better myself." She wiped her hands on her full apron and threw the goods over her left arm, from which it hung down and nearly swept the floor. ""There's enough here for both you and Mildred. Put it in the sewing drawer." She gave the goods back to Judith.
Judith turned to obey, but halted instead. She opened her purse, unwrapped the handkerchief, and silently handed her mother the dime. "Where did you get this?" her mother asked. "I found it." The half-truth was out.
Judith stood rigid and waited. "Then you may have it," was all her mother said. "But I don't want it."
Judith wondered if her mother could hear her heart beat. Her mother made a sudden turn toward the oven and sniffed. If that was really a look of inquiry Judith had seen on her face it was quickly erased by concern for her cookies. She bent to rescue the toobrown cakes.
Judith stood waiting. Her mother made no other comment.
Judith picked up a cookie and walked thoughtfully out of the kitchen.
Like other children she looked for punishment for any action that deviated from the standard.
After a scolding or a switching the responsibility slid to the shoulders of her parents.
This way it remained with Judith. She could not understand. She had expected to be questioned and ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 379 lectured. She could not know that twice that day she had met absolute trust. 'That trust and her silence made a wall within which Judith wandered around and around alone. She took the calico to the sewing drawer in her mother's bedroom. She dropped the dime into a tray on her mother's dresser. She heard it ring as it hit the bottom; she saw it lying flat in the tray; but, she discovered, it was not so easily gotten rid of. It had fastened itself more deeply into her consciousness than it had in the ooze near the puddle. A dime is so thin; it is amazing how mich one can weigh.