ESSENTIAL FREEDOM.

   Essential freedom is the right to differ in
opinion, and that right must be sacredly re-
spected; nor must the privilege of dissent be
conceded with disdain and coldness, but with
cordiality and good will. No loss of rank,
abatement of character, or ostracism from so-
ciety must darken the pathway of the humblest
of the seekers after truth, the right of free
thought, free inquiry and free speech--as clear
as the noonday.
   Without a full and cheerful recognition of
this right America is only a name, her glory a
dream, her institution a mockery. How do
such noble sentiments agree with the present
crusade against the citizens of this Territory?
When we take the privilege of differing with
others in our opinion as to our religion, we
are compelled to forfeit our character, and os-
tracism from society is our doom. We are de-
nied the right of citizens, and, although we
have suffered untold hardships, privations and
trials to make this Territory what it is to-day,
we are compelled to submit to have our avowed
enemies rule over us, to have a despotism es-
tablished in our midst, the rights and sanctity
of the home circle invaded, wives dragged
from their families and friends, questions asked
that ought to cause the blush of shame to
mantle the brow of any honorable court, to
help criminate and send to prison that which
is a part of themselves (they and their hus-
bands being one) for daring to own as wives
those whom they have sworn to cherish and
protect through all time and eternity, for ac-
knowledging their offspring as legitimate, and
entitled to their support and protection.
   You can search history in vain, even in the
dark ages, for a precedent of such high-handed
oppression. Well may we ask, "Where, oh!
where is the nobility of soul, the patriotism,
the freedom, that burned in the bosom of a
Washington, an Adams and a Webster?" Have
the noble and great men, that shed their blood
for religious freedom, bled and died in vain?
Is it true that they lived in vain? Yes. Oh,
shame! that we should have to say it is true.
The very foundation of the fabric of freedom
is crumbling and tottering, and unless the
Lord, the Mighty Ruler of the heavens and
earth puts forth His might, the structure will
be shattered and fall; but He has chosen this
land--the home of the free--for His children
to dwell upon, and He will protect the consti-
tution. He inspired the  noble men that left their
native land and braved the storms and dangers
of the deep, and faced the trials incident to
finding a home in an unknown land, and es-
tablishing religious freedom, that their souls
might soar aloft to that high pinnacle, the right
to worship God according to the dictates of
their own convictions of right. History in-
structs us that the love of religious freedom,
a compound sentiment in the breast of man,
made up of the clearest sense of right, and
the highest convictions of duty, is able to look
the sternest despotism in the face, and with
means, apparently most inadequate, to shake
principalities and powers. The principle of
toleration, in the broadest sense, is the most
just and wisest policy, and we, as a people, feel
to award all the right to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences; we
claim the same privilege. We claim the 
right given us by the Constitution, of being
governed by men of our choice, by men that
are citizens of our Territory, that are acquaint-
ed with the situation and condition of the peo-
ple, and that have helped to make the Terri-
tory, and that are the friends of the people,
men that have proved themselves trustworthy;
that  have the interest of the people at heart,
and whose interests are interwoven with theirs.
"We have a right--an indisputable, unalienable,
indefeasible right to that most dreaded and
envied kind of knowledge--I mean of the
character and conduct of our rulers.  Rulers
are no more than agents or trustees of the peo-
ple, and if the cause, the interest and trust is
insidiously betrayed, or wantonly trifled away,
the people have a right to revoke the authority,
that they themselves have deputed, and to con-
stitute other and better agents or trustees."--
Webster.
   Why not give us the same right that is
given to other Territories, in the choice of
officers? Why treat us as enemies and aliens?
Do we not claim allegiance to this Republic?
Do we not submit to all Constitutional laws?
Yes, verily we do. There is not a people on
this continent that are more loyal to the Con-
stitution than the Latter-day Saints; there is
no people on the earth that would bear with
patience the indignities that are being heaped
upon this people; their dearest rights taken
from them, and all that they hold dear
trampled under foot. Why do they bear it?
Because they know in whom they trust; they
know that the Lord, the Great Ruler of the
universe, is at the head. We have borne persecu-
tion and prosecution. We have importuned
in vain for our wrongs to be redressed, and
now, once again, we petition for equal rights
with other citizens of this nation. We are a
law-abiding people; we are not traitors, which 
we have proved time upon time, and we protest
against packed juries. We protest against being
considered guilty until we have had a fair and
impartial trial by our peers, and are proved so.
We protest against all proceedings that are ex-
post facto in their nature. We claim the
right of protection in our persons, houses and
effects, against unreasonable searches, and we
claim the right to incorporate in the rites of
our religion, whatever the Almighty sees fit to
command His people to incorporate for the
salvation of His people.
   Living under the heavenly light of revela-
tion, we hope to perform all the duties we owe
to one another and to society; as whatever
makes good Christians make good citizens.
Why have we not been admitted into the
Union as a State? For years we have had all
the necessary qualifications, and are able to as-
sume the responsiblities of Statehood. We
have proved, to a demonstration, the ability of
our leading men to statesmanship; that they
are not men who have any sinister ends to ac-
complish, no clamorous partisans to gratify, no
pledges to redeem, no object to be regarded, but
simply the public good. They have ever
shown a liberal, open and free spirit. They
have helped to convert this barren wilderness
into a fruitful field; they ave been one with
the people in all their labors. Then why should


they not enjoy the fruits of that labor? Why
should strangers enjoy what they have earned?
Besides, it is the voice of the people, and have
they not the right of choice? We claim that
right. We have no fellowship for traitors or
cowards. We look with scorn and contempt
upon anything in the shape of a man that will
prove recreant to his God, that will repudiate
and cast away his wives, that will brand his
offspring with shame! We have no language
to express our scorn and loathing for such des-
picable cowards, but we leave them to the tor-
ments of their own consciences.
	We will still raise our voices in defense of
the principle of our holy religion; we will still
declare that the Almighty has again spoken
from the heavens, and that the holy Priesthood
has been restored to man with all its power and
authority, and that the principles which we in-
corporate in our religion are by the command-
ment of God, and we believe it right to obey
the same, and no one has the right to curtail
us in our religious rites; we have the right to
differ in our opinions, and to be sustained in
that right.
	Praying for the advancement of the kingdom
of God, and the success of the EXPONENT, the
woman's organ of Utah, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of truth,
						S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., May 10, 1885.


