A EEW REFLECTIONS.

	The condition of affairs in Utah is being com-
mented upon at the present time all over the civil-
ized world. Yet one finds there are many very
ignorant of what is believed in by this people, as
well as their practices and institutions. This cru-
sade is spreading the “glad tidings” at home and
abroad, and opening up fields for the Elders to
glean in, where they may find many sincere and
honest-hearted, who will  hear the sound of
the Gospel of the Son of God, and obey the
same.
	There are many things to be thankful for, and it
becomes the Latter-day Saints, as God’s peculiar
people, to acknowledge the hand of the Almighty
in all things, even in this persecution.  “God
moves in a mysterious way,”and He knows how to
deal with His people.
	Among the things which the Saints should re-
cognize as from God is the fact that Judge Zane,
in his rulings, places plural marriage on such a
high plane. He makes it entirely separate and
distinct from any sexual sin, and distinctly takes
the ground that plural marriages are religious in
their form. The commissioners have also affirmed,
in their latest report, that plural marriage is as
much a religious principle as baptism.
	Then why should any one intefere with it, while
those who are practicing it are themselves satis-
fied with its conditions and responsibilites. Why
not allow the experiment to be made, at least; as
there are so many failures in social life, as well as
in politics and religion, let the "Mormons" try
this social method, which they have introduced,
and wait a few years more for the result.
	The Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know
them," and assuredly, so far, judging of the fruits
of these celestial marriages, there has been abun-
dant proof that the offspring is of good guality.
The beautiful and bright children, who fill these
mountain vales and congregate in the Sunday
Schools and district schools, speak volumes to
those in doubt as to the physical and mental de-
velopment of children born in plural marriage.
	But Satan is angry because the kingdom of
God is increasing in power and in numbers, and
he is determined to overthrow it, and he works
upon the minds and hearts of men to break down
and destroy this system of marriage, through
which so many souls may find tabernacles in the
flesh, and instead of passing laws to slay the
children, as in the days of Pharoah, he causes
men to pass laws to prevent their being born in
the "marriage relation," but God sought out a way


to bring to pass His own wise purposes then, and
He is just as able now.
	Men cannot compass the ways of God nor hin-
der the growth of His work on the earth, though
they may persecute and afflict His Saints, and
even shed the blood of prophets and men of God.


