THE FOURTH OF JULY. 
	In childhood’s days the very mention of "Inde-
pendence day" sent the blood tingling through
our veins, and no exertion was too much to cele-
brate the memorable occasion. Have we forgotten
these early impressions, and the patriotism we
drank in with the  very air we breathed? No, we
have not; they are with us still, and the same
love of liberty and consciousness of freedom to
worship God, that we inherited as our birthright,
still remains strong and dominant in our nature.
Do we love our country now as ever? Yes, we
do,but we mourn for the blots upon her escutcheon,
for the  laws enacted, and now being rigidly en-
forced against religious liberty. Alas for freedom
of conscience and free speech, when men are
mobbed and even sent to prison and placed under
bonds for practicing the pure principles of the
Gospel of  salvation, and when for the same re-
ligious practices taught and inculcated in the
holy Scriptures, and obeyed by holy men of old—
Abraham, Jacob and others of the ancients, who
were chosen men of God, and blest above others
of their time, in keeping this law of God; when
men for this, and this only, are arrested and com-
mitted to prison with the most wicked and vile,
their wives, honorably married, called before the
courts, held up to ridicule, and questioned as
though they were, the scum of the earth, this is
liberty indeed.
	In America, the land of the free and the home
of the brave, a land blest above all other lands,
with a Constitution greater and grander than any
upon the face of the earth, the Lord raised up in
this age of the world a prophet, and gave him a
message of life and salvation and a warning unto
all people. In the very beginning of his work
presecution begun; religious persecution; and his
life was sought for, his disciples and his followers
were persecuted and driven from state to state,and
from city to city. These people were American
citizens, sons and daughters of the soil, native
born, and many of them descended from illustri-
ous patriots, whose fathers and grandfathers had
fought for freedom and religious liberty, and
whose mothers and grandmothers, had suffered the
hardships incident to the perils of war, and sent
forth their husbands and sons to fight for freedom,
laying them upon the altar of liberty, though their
hearts were as tender as the heart of Abraham
when he went to offer up his son Isaac as a sacri-
fice. Such were the forefathers and foremothers
of the Prophets Joseph and  Brigham, Heber and
the leading men and women of this Church, who
have declared their mission to be from God, and
who have sought to do good to all people. What
were they accused of in those early days of perse-
cution, when they were driven from Ohio to Mis-
souri, and from county to county and city to city?
There was no such thing as plural marriage,
against which so much is said now; they were ac-
cused of having new revelation, of fanaticism, of
strange doctrine, of this and of that,of being abo-
litionists and of various things, and men were im-
prisoned and robbed, families were driven out
from their own rightful possessions, in the dead of
winter, and compelled to seek refuge and protec-
tion wherever they could, and finally, after having
established themselves once more peacefully, and
built up a beautiful city and magnificent temple in
the State of Illinois, and having added to their
numbers many from other lands, behold this hand-
ful of people were again molested, their Prophet
and Patriarch foully murdered and Apostles bare-
ly escaped with their lives. One of them, John
Taylor, now President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, wounded, the mob
thought, unto death, and saved as by a miracle,
bears the scars and the bullets  in his body to this
day, while under the guarantee of protection from
the state, and afterwards the whole body of the
people driven into the wilderness, without prepara-
tion, at the peril of their lives. 
	To recount the story of the wrongs and hard-
ships inflicted upon them would fill volumes of
history, but through it all this people maintained
their loyalty to the flag of their country, and
sought, by petitioning, and in various legitimate
ways, from time to time, to obtain some redress
for the wrongs inflicted upon them, but in vain.
The rulers of the nation acknowledged themselves
powerless to make any restitution to the "Mor-
mons." And so they were, so far as giving them
back their dead to life, slain for the Gospel’s sake,
and those who died by the wayside for want and
privation, brought about through this unhallowed
religious persecution, but in restoring rights of
property destroyed by mob violence, etc., they
need not have been powerless; but popular clamor
restrained those who were disposed to mete out
justice in any sense to the "Mormons."
	As proof positive of loyally to the dear old flag,
the “Mormons,” in their pilgrimage from Nauvoo
to the Rocky Mountain region, gave 500 of their
best picked men to the service of their country
and made no complaint. Women drove their own
teams, yoking and unyoking their cattle, taking
care of their children, and  performing the duties
and labor of both father and mother, sacrificing
themselves that the husband might show his allegi-
ance to his country in time of need, and honor the
laws of the land that had driven him and his dear
ones forth as an exile from his own inheritance.
	Arriving in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake,
Brigham Young and his noble and brave pioneers
planted the United States’ flag proudly and gladly
on this then desolate land, and dedicated it to God
and liberty in the name of the United States. Does
this savor of disrespect to the flag, or of disloyal-
ty to the government of "our common country?”
What have the rulers of this nation to say to our
oft-repeated wrongs? Only this: “We are tired
of hearing of the wrongs of Missouri and of
Nauvoo." No wonder, for there is a terrible re-
cord laid up against a future day of reckoning.
But why add to the calendar already well filled
with wrongs and outrages? Why seek to plunder
and persecute those who are only pursuing the
even tenor of their way and intruding upon the
rights of no man or woman?  Is there not room
and place for all, even for the "Mormons?” One
would think so, but this people have prospered in


the land, they have subdued the desert and made
it desirable, and unprincipled men, office seekers
and hangers on look with jealous eyes upon this fair
land, and desire it for an inheritance,and its pub-
lic offices to dispose of among themselves, and
they have resolved to take possession by whatever
means they can make available.
	Who can say that the flag has ever been dis-
honored by floating at half mast? Do not all
Americans know that it is an expression of public
grief? Did the Confederates float the flag at half
mast when they defied the United States and
sought to make war upon their country? No;
they unfurled a flag to the breeze that showed at
once the antagonism that ripened into a bloody
conflict. But those who are so anxiously seeking
for an excuse to justify the abuse of the "Mor-
mons" will wait long before they see the dear old
flag, of which all true American patriots are so
proud, and love with such intensity, dishonored.
Too many of the forefethers of this people bled
and died for that independence which the stars and
stripes are a significant of, and they know what
the feeling of genuine love of country is, and feel
it too deeply to make light of any of its symbols.


