MRS. LOCKWOOD IS COMING.

	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood is announced to lec-
ture in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday evening,
July 6th. Her subject will be "Political and So-
cial Life in Washington," a most prolific subject


and one in which the people of Utah are much
interested. She is well posted in regard to Wash-
ington society indoors and out, and her lecture
cannot fail to be of deep interest, for she knows
how to manage her subjects in an effective and in-
teresting manner. Mrs. Lockwood is as well
known, perhaps, as any lady of the present day in
the United States. She has been for some years
before the public as a lawyer and a leading woman
suffragist, and was the first woman admitted to
practice before the bar of the Supreme Court of
the United States. She is the leading editor of
the National Equal Rights, a paper published in
Washington and San Francisco (the organ of the
Equal Rights Party) the party that nominated
Mrs. Lockwood as their candidate for President
of the United States, during the last canvasing
for Presidential election.
	Mrs. Lockwood has several times spoken before
committees in Congress, and also before the con-
ventions of the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion in the City of Washington, against the bills
framed from time to time to deprive this people of
the rights and liberties to which all free-born men
and women are entitled. Mrs. Lockwood is brave,
frank and generous, and deserves all the praise
bestowed upon her. She is a very pleasing, agree-
able and interesting speaker. She is exceedingly
sharp and clear-sighted, and abounds with interest-
ing facts and pithy paragraphs. Her logic is
plain and conclusive, and she cares very little
about popular ideas or opinions, but is quite origi-
nal and independent in expressing her views.
	Those who attend her lecture will have a rare
treat, for there are few, if any, women in the
world who are better calculated to attract and in-
terest an audience than Mrs. Lockwood. The
lady's home is in Washington, and she has an ex-
tensive practice in her profession. She has been a
firm and consistent advocate for the rights of
the women of Utah, and is fairly well acquainted
with our question, having been associated con-
siderably with several of the people from Utah,
when they have been in the City of Washington.
We trust the people here will show their apprecia-
tion of Mrs. Lockwood's efforts in their behalf by
coming out en masse to hear her speak at
the theatre in this city, on Monday, July 6th, at
8 in the evening. Tickets, 75, 50 and 25 cts,
Mrs. Lockwood will speak in Ogden, Logan and
Provo, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday,
July 7th, 8th and 9th.


