FUTURE.

	"A thing of beauty is a joy forever." Wo-
man's charms are certainly many and power-
ful. Heaven has imprinted on the mother's
face something beyond this world. The good
Bishop Thomson once wrote that there was "no
velvet so soft as the mother's lap, no rose so
lovely as her smile, no path so flowery as that
imprinted with her footsteps." He who can ap-
proach the cradle of sleeping innocence. with-
out thinking that of such is the kingdom of
heaven, or see the parent hang o'er its beauties

[Column 2]

and half retain her breath lest she should
break its slumbers, without a veneration be-
yond all common feeling, is to be avoided in
every vocation of life.
	The world's history is full of glorious
achievements of women. If all women had
the chance to educate themselves, they would
find it would be a great help to them in the
future. In years long past they had not the
privilege of going to school, or any place
where knowledge of books could be gained,
but in this enlightened age it is vastly different.
A mother is the best friend a child can have,
with her gentle look, loving smile, kind words
and tender care for her children, and the wak-
ing, watchful eye which keeps its fond vigil
over her slumbering babe.
	These are objects which neither the pencil
nor chisel can reach. In the heart of man na-
ture has set the mother upon such a pinnacle
that our infant eyes and arms are uplifted to
it. We cling to it in manhood; we almost
worship it in old age. The mother can take
man's whole nature under her control. She
has become what has been called "the divinity
of infancy." Her smile is sunshine, her words
its mildest law, until sin and the world have
steeled the heart.
	We are put upon this earth for a wise and
noble mission, and one of the chief ends of
that mission is the love, care and protection of
children. Robert G. Ingersoll said, "Woman
has all the rights of man and one more; it is
that of protection."
	The mother is the angel spirit of home.
Many a woman in this stage of action is very
futile, and does not care to assume any respon-
sibility. This is not the way to feel if one
ever wishes to become wise, honorable and
good, or to make a name known for good
works in this world and the world to come.
Who, in the hour of agony, would forget the
mother? Who, even when the tomb is closing
upon the remains of her he loves most, when
he feels his heart, as it were, crushed in the
closing of its portals? Nothing can be more
touching than to behold a soft and tender
woman, who has been all weakness and depend-
ence, and alive to every trivial roughness while
treading the prosperous path of life, and daily
rising in mental force to be the comfort and
support of her husband under misfortune, and
abiding with unshrinking firmness the biter-
est blasts of adversity.
	Woman is one of the most intelligent crea-
tures upon the earth. If she is good and pure
her hopes are centered in the future, where the
angels dwell. Woman's place is very import-
ant. She is gentle, keeping her love, as it
were, won by a thousand nameless and modest
virtues, which radiate from her whole life and
action. She steals upon your affection like a
summer wind breathing softly over sleepy val-
leys; and yet the wishes of the wise mother are
guided by that which avoids conflict. When
a mother has raised her children in the right
direction, and they follow the path which has
been marked out for them, they can say they
honored their father and mother in the days of
their youth. Ah! woman's aim is high, and
she will reach it if she will cultivate her mind
and heart to do so. Verily, O woman! thou
art a glorious and God-like being. Woman
can learn to fill many of the positions in office
equally well with man, and she can even
out-strip him in some of the vocations of
life.

[Column 3]

	A good wife is the best thing a man can
have. Her tender yearnings over the cradle
of her infant babe, her guardian care of the
child in youth, and her bosom companionship
with the man of her love and choice, makes her
the personal centre of the interests, the hopes
and happiness of the family.
	It is evident that one of the most potent
means by which woman is raised in the scale
of knowledge and virtue, is through the con-
versation, association and example of women
superior to herself. Beauty is the mark God
sets upon virtue. If trouble comes upon you
you know that loving kindness will allay your
fears. Her kindness and gentleness are sweet-
ly tempered with that meekness and forbear-
ance which are born of faith. Trust comes
into her heart as rivers flow into the sea. In
the "dark hours" of doubt and foreboding man
himself rests fondly upon her buoyant faith, as
the treasure of his common life, and in our
holier musings we look to that frail hand and
gentle spirit, to lead us away from the vanities
of worldly ambition, to the fulness of that joy
which the good inherit.
	We have given our ideas of woman's place.
What shall her future be? Will she rise or
fall? Rise she must and will; there is no doubt
of it. The course of events point to her
place high upon the ladder of eternal fame.
Her pathway to eminence and to the forefront
in the field of science and art has now be-
gun to blossom and bloom with the flowers of
success, and she has already had scattered in
her pathway rare bouquets of applause, thrown
there by an damiring world.	*	*	*
She is grandly bursting the fetters that have
hindered her progress so many, many years.
She is just now stepping out on the platform
of human advancement, in art, science and in-
vention, to compete with her brother man in
many of those walks of life.
	In literature she has already won laurels of
fame. In song she out-rivals him. In science
she has, in many instances, already displayed a
master hand, and in religion all will admit she
is naturally more reverential, devout and hum-
ble, and none will deny but that more peniten-
tial tears are to her credit in the Lamb's Book
of Life, than those of man. Her gentle grace,
her tender pity, and her never ending love, are
heaven's symbols of what is to be in years to
come.
	In coming years woman's name will be flung
upon canvas ever to be revered by posterity,
and never to be dimmed by the mellowing of
time. She will win a fame that will be more
lasting that brass, more durable than marble.
She will join in that song which will be great-
er than that of Miriam's. It filled the whole
world with music, even as it was filled the whole
world with music, even as it was filled on the
morning when God looked out and found that
all He had created was good, and the solemn
stars broke into song.
	Woman is awaking. The day is near at
hand when the universe shall change front, and
by woman's help, socially, politically and re-
ligiously, in words and deeds, new hopes and
new measures will be vouchsafed to all man-
kind.
	The thrill—the bursting of fetters that have
so long enchained woman, is not confined
to this country alone. It is heard in
Ireland, in France, in Poland, in Hungary, and
even the mention of woman's place and her
future, is arousing energy, and activity which
had lain dormant among the nations, those


that have thought it a disgrace for women to
speak in public, or to enter the professions.
Her future is bright, and as the revolving
world measures off the cycles of time her name
will brighter glow and gleam, immortal, uncon-
sumed by moth or rust.
		MILLIE HOWELL.
	Clifton, Idaho, May 26. 1885.


