SILENT COMMUNINGS.

	My other self and I have had a long collo-
quy this evening upon many deep and impor-
tant subjects,upon which it is good to ruminate.
I believe the meditations were caused by
attending, a few days before, Doctor Ellis
Shipp's lecture.
	After we ceased our cogitation, for the
time being, I tried to recall some of the ideas,
and make them palpable for my own especial
benefit, and, perhaps, for some others who may
read them, so I promptly summoned my pri-
vate secretary (my pen), who is always within
reach of my hand, and I, dictating, we set to
work to make palpable some of these reflec-
tions. We entered upon them by observing
what a marvelous piece of mechanism the hu-
man organism presents to the eyes of the
astonished beholder! When we began to study
it, whether in the mental or corporeal, we
found both equally startling in their complex
machinery; we decided that here was visible the
very hand of God! the grand architect and
builder of this wonderful and mysterious struc-
ture; we felt that anatomy ought to be certain-

[Column 2]

ly one of the studies of the human mind, as it
is one of the essentials of self-knowledge.
	When attending a lecture of this kind, the
intelligent mind is shocked at its own igno-
rance, and at once determines to enter upon
an anatomical study, by attending lectures and
by reading and reflection, that we may, at any
rate, gain an insight of how "fearfully and
wonderfully we are made." Not only the
grand structure is to be studied, but we mnst
pass into the secret chambers of that mysteri-
ous organism, and there behold how intense
has been the almighty fashioner, that nothing
should be wanting for the happiness and com-
fort of this being, "only a little lower than the
angels"—there we shall behold the minute,but
most important germs of immortal life, which
we need to behold through a microscope in
their minuteness, yet all in a grand perfection,
complete, essential and practical. This is a
temple that all should enter, taking "their
shoes from off their feet," and the finger on the
lip, for it is "holy ground," for the observing,
thinking and devout mind realizes that God
himself is there! Blind indeed must be the
eye, and dark as Erebus the mind that cannot
discern Him in this mysterious form and struc-
ture. On entering into the presence of these
sublime mysteries, the ermine falls to the
ground, the purple robe is forgotten, the jewels
become dim, feeling we stand in nudity in
that awful presence; not humbled, in the com-
mon acceptation of the term, but simply
silenced by a grand and stupendous mystery!
Thought prompts the conviction that the Al-
mighty Maker has fashioned and wrought out
that sublime, that beautiful structure for an
immortal existence. Yes, immortality is im-
printed upon every part of it, because every
part is perfection!
	And what are the meditations that follow
this inspection? Do I not behold myself in
beholding this? Does it not hold up to the re-
viewer a mirror on which is written thyself? and
have we been ignorant of the perfection God
has given us? and do we treasure it as the
temple of the Holy One? do we never abuse it,
and wilfully or thoughtlessly injure, or perhaps
destroy it as a thing of naught? We look
abroad and see deformity in this once perfect
structure, caused, perhaps, by accident, perhaps
by wickedness in persons, or their progenitors.
Oh! how sad, how mournful, after beholding
perfection, to turn our eyes upon disease and
distortion! God, forgive all Thy pure eyes see
amiss in Thine erring creatures; enable them
to see wherein they err, and to increase in
knowledge, wisdom and understanding, that
above all things they may never desecrate the
perfect temple which Thou hast fashioned for
their immortal spirit to dwell in, while it so-
journs on Thine earth in this probation. And
well may we believe, and know that this per-
fect form, with its immaculate, its sublime, its
holy and mysterious apparatus cannot perish,
but within its most secret chambers lies the
hidden spark of the eternal fire, from off the
eternal altar of our God, which cannot be ex-
tinguished; though the corruptible must put
on incorruption, that eternal spark shall never
be dimmed, and shall again be ignited by the
breath of the Eternal and Omnipotent Archi-
tect, and shall have power to attract the parti-
cles pertaining to it, and will again stand forth
in its own grand identity and immortal being.
	The apostle of old said, "Know ye not that
your bodies are the temple of the Holy


Ghost?" Let us often recall these words, and
meditate fondly on their solemn meaning, es-
pecially when we look around and behold so
much to make the righteous mourn in the reck-
lessness, the thoughtlessness, the apathy—not
to speak of the willfully, the daringly wicked,
we feel to exclaim like one of old, "Who, then,
can be saved?" but the ever loving voice of the
Savior is heard in answer, "With men it is im-
possible, but with God all things are possible."
Truly may it be said, "God is Love." By
this blessed knowledge is our faith and hope
sustained and kept alive, and we arise renewed
and refreshed, and go on our way rejoicing.
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1885.


