WEST POINT IN NOVEMBER. 

	A dull and wintry looking morning it was
when we left New York to visit West Point.
I shall never forget the day. As we rode
along the west shore of the river—named after
Heindrich Hudson, and immortalized by that
prince of imaginative writers, Washington
Irving—the clouds, which had gathered threat-
eningly, paled, began to disperse, and the sun
broke out rich and warm. 	
	The train rolled over an undulating country
of a rather unpromising character for a brief
distance, and dashed through several tunnels.
Emerging from one of these, however, a
magnificent sweep of the Hudson River and 
the opposite shore rose full upon the view, He
must have been a stoic of the olden times and
most approved school, who, gazing on this fair
sight for the first time, could resist an exclama-
tion of delight and surprise, or whose pulses
would not give an exultant bound at the en-
chanting prospect spread out before his vi[-]ion.
The stream resembles a lake more than a river.
No current is preceptible. The yachts, the
river steamers and fishing yawls sped up and
down and danced upon its placid waters as
they sailed. Along the banks and up the side of the mountains—or deeply wooded hills,
which hem in the stream on either side—are
pleasant little villages, charming and elegant
summer residences, and here and there a 
manufacturing structure.
	It is a little less than fifty miles from New
York to West Point, and the distance is won-
derfully short, to one to whom the scene has
not grown familiar. The train discharges the
West Point visitor at a point below the reserva-
tion, and speeds on its way through a tunnel
right under the hill on which the reservation is
located.
	To realize the beauty of West Point one
must stroll fully over the reservation. Situa-
ted on a table land, which swells abruptly to
the east, the river makes a majestic curve
around it, and thus a magnificent view of the
river is obtained on the north, the east and
the south, while fringing both sides are the low,
slowly rising hills, deeply bedded with woods.
The mountains gird the reservation on the

[Column 2]
west, while to the east is a preciptious bluff
looking down upon the smooth waters be-
neath.
	The educational buildings and cadet quar-
ters are on the south side of the plateu. The
 residences of officers are also on the south and 
some on the west. Those to the west are 
skirted by a drive on the east, and are not un-
like the quarters of the officers at Fort Doug-
las, only the drive there is on the west with
the mountains on the east—at West Point it
is just the reverse: the drive is on the east of
the quarters, while the mountains form a back-
ground on the west.  The broad parade or
drill ground is on the north and east of the
barracks and officers' residences, while from
the north end, or the hotel, a superb view may
be had of the river and the town of Newburgh,
at which place Washington established his
head-quarters.  (The building is said to be
standing yet, and is preserved by the State.)
at the north side, also, are many of the guns,
or cannon captured during the Mexican war,
and on the east are trenches and earth works
in all stages of construction, used doubtless in
the education of cadets.
	The riding school is down in the east, be-
neath the brow of the hill and nearer the
river.
	 All these details are unimportant, save that
they add to the reputation of the place in a
mental sense, nor are they entirely without
picturesqueness, while they give an air of
strength and majesty which would otherwise
be wanting.
	The view, looking from any point, and in
any direction, is incomparable, and leaves an
impression upon the mind that cannot be ef-
faced.  But the winding river, broad, placid
and bright in the sunlight, with the white sails
dotting its surface, the pleasant villages and
charming villas, half hidden amid the thick
growth of evergreen trees bordering the lan-
guid stream on either side, the scattered tokens
of success of American armies, the structures
for the education of the American youth in the
art of war, with their pleasant and delightful
surroundings, all, all are as nothing compared
with the rare, the romantic beauty of the walk
that winds, along the river bank, and nestles so
closely under the brow of the hill, on which
the grounds and buildings are situated as to
hide all evidence of their existence from the
view “Flirtation Walk”—name well suited to
those whose weightiest thoughts are as the
bubble that floats measuredly by on the grand
stream (the waters leaving the shore at their
feet) and which the lightest breath of heaven
will destroy, only to give place to another as
short of life and as evanescent.
	Straying along the winding way one can
but wonder how nature creates souls so lacking
in depth as to withstand its spell, its pensive
witch[-]ry, or fail to be moved by that sweet,
that touching melancholy which alone kindles
in the trusting heart purified and hallowed
fellings, which alone can fill the mind with
bright, ennobling, glowing aspirations. Art
has done much to enchance the beauty of a
scene naturally enchanting; and the art was
true, for its presence can hardly be detected.
Save that the walk underneath the precipitons
hill, and just out of the water's reach, is kept
clean and safe, save for the occasional rustic
seat, placed in out of the way corners for the
rest of travelers and the gratification of lovers,
save for the steps provided for safety in pre-
cipitous places, or where leading down to
springs of water, all is natural, all rustic, all
enchanting beyond the power of words to de-
scribe.
	There are two or three paths leading down
to the walks, from the plateau above. Once in
this winding path, all evidence of military
academy and its immediate surroundings are
lost; nothing but the broad stream; with boats

[Column 3]
gliding over its unmurmuring bosom, the
wooded hills on the other side, with the lazy,
curling smoke rising from houses buried in the
evergreen foliage, nothing but the steep and
overhanging bluff to be seen. This walk leads
into the most delightfully squestered nooks;
through small groves, over rough and brokən
places; here a huge, rough stone, seamed
through and through, each seam filled with
fresh, green moss; yonder is a tiny dell. There,
below that overhaning cliff, is a most delight-
ful grotto, filled with damp moss, and trailing
vines everywhere, while the odor is fresh and
sweet; here the denuded trees overarch, and
around that turn you will find a recess with
the most convenient seat imaginable in it for
those listening to the shy, soft tones of one, the
pleading words of the otehr, and living, for
the sweet moment at least, in the tender glance
and the radiant smile from loving eyes and
warm and tempting lips—oblivious to all that
surrounds—to all the world. And foreer, to be
viewed from every point, the grand old
river glides serenely on, the unmoved, the un-
heeding confident of the enraptured poet; of
the uttered rhapsodies of the deep and abiding
admirer of nature; of the pensive sighs of
modest maidens; of the warm and passionate
pleadings of the ardent lover; of the flippant
gibes of the self-satisfied cadet, whose whole,
whose ever-recurring, ever-uttered, persistently
out-spoken idea is that to imagine anything
above or equal to a West Point cadet is the 
measure of absurdity.
	There's not a rustle even of a tiny leaf, as
I move along the path (my soul drinking deep
of the calm, the serene, the holy enchantment
of the scene) that does not awaken tender
thoughts and sweet and touching recollec-
tions, that does not fill me with better
impulses, with truer, manlier aspirations. I 
have long been confirmed in the belief that
surroundings are potent features in the develop-
ment of character. Believing this I cannot
understand why it is that the influence of the
magnificent scenery, everywhere to be seen
along the Hudson River, and especially at
West Point, should not produce, even among
those striving to be skilled in war, deep lovers
of art, and those imbued with such an ardent
spirit of poetry, such as can find satisfaction
and relief only in individual expression, in the
utterance of the thoughts that forever well up
in the hearts of those who are deeply moved by
nature in her endless, her manifold and varied
forms, all forever beautiful.
	The day is sombre and cold. Ever and
anon the clouds gather and a storm threatens,
but each time the darkening clouds disperse
and the sun again comes out bright. They
tell me the scene is cold and cheerless now;
that compared with the appearance of the
place in June, or during the spring and sum-
mer the present sight is as nothing.  I can
hardly believe it, and yet realize it must be so.
But should I be denied the happiness of a
visit when the recurring seasons attire this
dreamy and romantic spot in her lovliest robes
of green and flowers, still the picture it pre-
sents on this fitful November day will ever re-
main bright, glowing and pensively beauti-
ful.
	It was night when we left to return to New
York. We took the Grand Central down the
east side, passing Tarrytown, Sing Sing,
Harlem and other points. The moon shone
full and clear, and as we swept along the edge
of the river, now filled with steamers, yachts
and tiny boats, all lit and dancing on the great
river, the weird beauty, the romantic halo
which the rich moonlight sheds over all it
floods upon, served only to make deeper and
more lasting the impressions of this day, be-
causes of that which the eye had beheld, and
which had already sunk deep into the soul.
