WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PATTY SESSIONS.
			Continued.
	During the first winter at Winter Quarters,
on the borders of the Missouri River, it was
quite common for the sisters to hold meetings
to pray and exercise faith for those who had
been left behind, that they might be permitted
to join them, as also to give them courage to
pursue their journey into the wilderness, as it
was termed a place of freedom and safety.
	On the 14th of February Sister Sessions
says Sister Zina Young, Eliza Snow, Catherine
Markham and herself met at Sister Presendia
Kimball's to pray for her daughter Sylvia and
her child, that the way might be opened for
them to come to the Saints. They had a good
time and spoke in tongues and received the in-
terpretation and enjoyed a good degree of the
Spirit of the Lord. X
	On the 23rd there was a sort of a feast made
for the widows and orphans, in the Council
House, and Sister Sessions speaks of cooking
for it.
	On Friday, the 26th, she speaks of being with
Mary, wife of Wm. Kimball, in her confine-
ment, with her second daughter afterwards,
called Marion.
	On Sunday, the 28th, she speaks of being at
a similar meeting to the one before mentioned,
at her own house, where the Spirit of the Lord
was poured out in rich abundance, and the
sisters rejoiced greatly in the influence and
power of its gifts. From this time Sister Ses-
sions writes daily of her visits to the sick, her
household duties, her carding and spinning
and labors of various kinds, her thoughts and
reflections upon the critical situation of the
people and her faith that all would work to-
gether for good. Almost every day she officia-
ted where one or two children were born, and
thus, we see, that although the Saints were
scattered, as it were, and compelled to flee
from their homes, Zion was still growing and
increasing in numbers and strength.
	Sunday, March 14th, Sister Sessions says,
"Sister E. R. Snow came to see me and brought
me a poem that she had written for me." This
poem is inserted in the diary, and we publish
it as given.

