		THE TOPIC OF THE DAY:

	The all-absorbing topic of the day is the
present crusade, for it can be called nothing bet-
ter, against the Latter-day Saints, the different
methods pursued to entrap and ensnare men into
the hands of the enemy.  It might be interesting
as a study if it were not so intensely cruel in its
effects upon an innocent and inoffensive people.
	The impaneling of the jury is in itself a miser-
able parody upon justice, and not at all according
to the American idea of being tried by one's peers,
of which men, everywhere, talk with such pride.
	The Commissioner's office seems to be a regu-
lar trap set on purpose to deceive people, and
when they are told the Grand Jury are not in
session, and they feel comparatively at ease so
far as deputy Marshals and spies are concerned;
they are arrested without any notice and taken
before the Commissioner and bound over in bonds,
etc. Witnesses are also questioned and bound
over, and if they do not answer the most insolent
questions, sent up for contempt.  How many
women might be sent to the penitentiary in a
day in the City of New York, or even good old
Boston, or Quaker Philadelphia, if women were
arrested and taken before a commissioner and
plyed with the same sort of questions?  If they
were as unwilling to reply as Lucy Devereaux
their penitentiaries would soon be full.
	However this is at random, for they don't
ask them who the fathers of their children
are, nor they don't provide even a peniten-
tiary to put them in, but let them crawl into
any corner or hovel they like, or let good and noble
women, who have the courage and humanity to
do it, provide places of refuge for these unfortun-
ate creatures and their helpless offspring, or they
are lost altogether and die of disease and want;
and who is to blame?  Not legislators or con-
gressmen, they have no time to regulate such
things; their business is to see after those who
enter the "marriage relation," and who provide
homes and comforts and luxuries for their wives
and their children.
	Their business is to make laws that will dis-
franchise the very men and women who have
spent their lives in building up the country and
making an oasis in the desert, where all may find
a resting place in peace and security, and having
founded homes and habitations, built up cities
and towns, fostered institutions of learning and
established governments in accordance with the
laws and Constitution of the United States, in
fact having to the best of their ability acted up to
the rights and privileges given to free citizens of
this great Republic, after all this to be deprived of
all the rights and privileges  that make up the sum
of human happiness, to be subject to imprison-
ment and fines, to be tried by a jury not of one's 
peers, but of men who have no conception of the
high sense of honor and nobility that character-
izes men who have taken upon themselves sacred
and holy covenants, is a fact at which the heart
turns sick, and one turns away appalled with this
semblance of justice in a land of religious free-
dom.  Alas! for the banner of liberty that floats
over the land of the free and the home of the
brave."  What tragedies are enacted under

[Column 2]
its sheltering folds.  "How have the mighty
fallen!"
	The high handed manner in which the law has
been administered in Idaho surpasses even what
has occurred in Utah, and yet such injustice goes
unpunished, and "our poor country" must suffer
for the misdeeds of ruthless plunderers and car-
pet baggers.
	The Edmunds law has been pronounced Con-
stitutional by the Supreme Court of the United
States, and whatever may be the opinion of men
and women concerning the matter, the reverence
they have for the country which they love and
honor, will give them grace and courage to submit
to the enforcement of the law, but they have a
right to protest against the one-sided administra-
tion of it, and against the wicked and unjust pro-
ceedings of officials sent here to administer it.
	But if men think for one moment there is no
God in this matter, they fall into an egregious
error. Men may scoff and ridicule the Latter-
day Saints, even as the Jews did the Savior thou-
sands of years ago, but they will, ere long, find to
their shame and sorrow that God lives and reigns,
that He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,
and that He honors those who do the works of
Abraham, and who are not afraid to be found
serving Him, though all the powers of darkness
conspire to hinder them.
	There are many things that might be worse
than this crusade, bad as it is, and, there-
fore, the Saints ought not to murmur, for
were a devastating sickness to cover all the
land, as has been prophecied of again and
again, there would be more sorrow and greater
trials than those through which the people
are now passing.  There can be no doubt
that trials such as the people are experiencing
now will be salutary and beneficial in their effects
however hard it may seem.
	The brethren who are in prison feel well; they
are comforted by the Holy Spirit, and their famil-
ies rejoice that they are worthy to suffer for the
Gospel's sake.
	Many who were faint-hearted before, and es-
pecially among the young people, are growing
stronger in defense of the principles of the Gospel,
and this is something most desirable and gratify-
ing, and for which the Saints certainly have rea-
son to rejoice, for it is upon the rising generation
the burden of the work of building up Zion must
inevitably fall.  And Zion will be established in
beauty and glory, notwithstanding persecution
wages fierce and strong, and the clouds hang
heavy and dark at the present time, the storm will
clear up.
	There is no fear in the hearts of those who are
keeping the commandments of God, for they
know all will be well, though they may feel very
deeply the situation in which the Saints are now
placed.


