EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTER Eliza R. S. Smith has been absent for
a few days in Brigham City on business.
	WE are very grateful to Sister Mary Gray of
the 15th Ward for a basket of delicious, ripe, red
cherries, which were fully appreciated.
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and E. Howard went to
Grantsville on Friday, June 12th, to attend the
sisters’ conference of Tooele Stake, held there
Saturday and Sunday, and to visit some of the
settlements, before returning home. 
	BELVA A. LOCKWOOD is expected to lecture in
the theatre, in this city, sometime in the near fu-
ture. Due notice will be given of the date fixed
upon. The sisters will remember that she has
spoken in Washington several times in defense of
the rights of the women of Utah.
	FROM Mrs. Sarah Sears of the 11th Ward, a
beautiful and large bouquet of the most fragrant
and choicest flowers to grace our sanctum. Roses
of several varieties and colors, geraniums, honey-
suckles, carnation pinks, and a great many others
equally charming, arranged with artistic taste to
please the eye and shed around a sweet perfume.
Many sincere thanks to the giver.
	THE Presidents of Stakes of the Relief Society
who have not received the charts containing the
names of all the Presidents of the Relief Society
in all the branches in the several stakes, can get
the number to which they are entitled by applying,
either personally, or by letter, at the office of
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Room No. 4, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south
of Z. C. M. I.
	WE acknowledge, with thanks, from the office
of the Juvenile Instructor, a book of 118 pages,
entitled "The Edmunds Law." Unlawful cohabita-
tion as defined by Chief Justice Chas. S. Zane, of
the Territory of Utah, in the trial of Angus M.
Cannon Esq., in the Third District Court, Salt
Lake City, April 27, 28 and 29, 1885. Reported
in shorthand by John Irvine. Price, 30 cts.
This book gives every detail of this remarkable
trial in full. It is upon a subject which the peo-
ple here ought certainly to understand in all its
bearings and effects, and to be familiar with the
manner in which the question is treated by the
lawyers and jndges who handle these matters in
the courts of this Territory. It will be a useful
book for reference and ought to find ready sale.
	A GREAT number of strangers and tourists are
visiting our beautiful city the present season, and
many of them make special inquiries into the doc-
trines of the Mormon people, and are desirous to
learn what effect is being produced by the enforce-
ment of the Edmunds law, and whether it is work-
ing a hardship for the people. Perhaps the most 
noted man who has visited Salt Lake City this
season was Monsignur Capel, who delivered two
lectures here and preached in the Catholic Church
on the 7th and 15th of June. He is one of the strong
pillars of that ancient church, and prides himself
in being one of its devoted representatives. In
appearance he is very distinguished; in manners,
polished in the extreme; in conversation, ex-
ceedingly pleasant and fascinating. His language
is the perfection of English, and his great knowl-
edge of books, of men and countries, make
him exceptionally brilliant in the art of convers-
ing. He has quite a collection of "Mormon books,
and his opinions on the subject may be different
after he has read them; at any rate he is a strong


opponent of its doctrines at the present time. He
" intends returning here after a'visit’of about,two
'-weeks in California, and deliver a course of lec-
tures.
	FRIDAY morning, May 15th, attended the an-
nual meeting of the Primary Association of the
Tenth Ward in this city, commencing at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding. The singing of
the children and their exercises were
excellent, and the best of order was strictly
observed. Sister McLean, who has presided
over the Society ever since its organization, has,
with her assitants, accomplished great good, more
especially in the spiritual training of the little ones
in the cultivation of faith and the fruits of the
Holy Spirit. The annual report, which was read,
showed that considerable had been done during
the year, even by these little ones. After the pro-
gramme1 had been carried out remarks, suitable to
- tbe occasion,were made by Sisters E. C. Clawson,
E. B. Wells, L. A. Wells, Coun. James Woods,
Sister McLean and her Coun., Miss Edwards.,
At the close of the meeting, the officers, visitors
and children repaired to Fuller’s Hill, wherea ll
partook of refreshments prepared for the occa-
sion, and enjoyed the afternoon in a pleasant
manner, the children indulging in sports and pas-
times, such as swinging, boating, examining the
views and other amusements.  It was an event in
the, lives of tlie little folks which they will look
back upon with a sweet remembrance.


