EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	We, the members of the Annabella Ward, Sevier Co.,
Utah are with much regret, compelled to inform you of
the death of our beloved sister and friend, Ann Sophia
Rollins Beckstead, wife of Edward K. Roberts, who de-
parted this life May 13th, 1885. She was born March 5th,
1831, in the State of Maine. Was baptized in November, 
1842, at the early age of eleven years.
	She passed through many of the persecutions and heart-
rending scenes of the Church; was in the drivings from 
Nauvoo, and was compelled to cross the Mississippi River
in a canoe. She afterwards returned to Nauvoo, living

[Column 2]
with the mother of the Prophet, and witnessed the burning
of the Nauvoo Temple.
	Sister Rollins came to Council Bluffs in 1849, and was 
married to Sidney Beckstead in 1850. She crossed the 
plains in 1852, and passed through many hardships and
privations incident to the early settlement of Utah.
	In 1864 she lost her husband, by his accidently shooting
himself, when assisting to bring out the emigration. She 
was married to her present husband in March, 1869.
	During her last days all he children were present—five
daughters and the youngest child, a son, nearly fourteen
years of age. Her disease was pulmonary consumption.
The fondest attention was tendered her, during her dis-
tressing and fatal illness of five months duration.
	She was Second Counselor to the President of the
Annabella Ward Relief Society, and First Counseler to
the President of the Primary Association, and was dearly
beloved by all the members of both associations, for the
faithful discharge and performaece of every duty, by
which she won many tokens of their love and esteem.
	The people of the ward, and for miles around, attended
her funeral services, in token of esteem for the worthy and 
faithful worker in the places to which she had been called
so well. 
	Her last days were those of great suffering, and she
died firm to the cause of truth, and in the hope of a glori-
ous resurrection. Her last work was mostly with the
Primary, as her mind was so much upon their develop-
ment and success.
	The following Resolutions of Respect were unanimously
adopted by the Society:
	That, As in the Providence of God our most worthy
sister has been called to a higher and happier sphere, to 
perform a labor of love in heaven, as she had done here
upon earth, be it
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of Annabella Ward, do
greatly mourn the loss of our beloved sister, and sincerely
tender our heartfelt sympathy to the many relatives and
friends, who are called upon to lose mother, wife, sister
and friend, and with them we weep and acknowledge the
hand of an Almighty God, but are greatly consoled in
knowing that the Saintly sleeper enjoys the rest of the 
faithful, and the reunion with those she loved on Earth. We
also look forth to the time when the grave will give up its 
dead, and the earth again will be brtened with the
presence of the redeemed. And, be it
	Resolved, That a copy of this notice and resolutions be
forwarded to the EXPONENT for publication.
		EMMA STAFFORD, President.
		ELLEN GARDNER, Counselor.
		ANN THURSTON, Secretary.


