THOUGHTS ONE QUIET EVENING

	Husband away and baby in dreamland, I
sit here at home musing and pondering by

[Column 2]
myself on the condition of our people, as it has
been in the past, of what it is at present, and
trying to penetrate far into the future, 
as far as my mind's eye will allow me. But let my
mind wander where it will it most invariably
will turn back to this, the great momentous
Zion. As it has been said, it is truly a great
age, and words would be inadequate to express
my great joy that I am allowed to live in this
great day, and to be of the chosen Saints of
God.
	I ask myself, as I sit here in solitude, if we 
could look far ahead into the annals of history,
see there the world's history recorded as it is
now progressing, would there not be looks of
wonder,astonishment and, oh! of horror? Horror
at seeing recorded the wicked deeds being done
now upon the earth. Noble men and women
suffering through injustice done them, because
they believe in worshiping God according to
the dictates of their own consciences; laws
twisted and turned to suit their own vile pur-
poses, that is to work against the poor degraded
Mormon people (as they are usually called)
and to bring them nearer to civilization.
	Methinks, if they could look ahead into the
records of history, the mantle of shame might
cover their cheek, that is if they were capable
of such feelings. I am thankful to my Hea-
venly Father that I do not belong to this
honorable class. 
	I wonder how these oppressors of mankind 
will feel when they stand at that great and
terrible day at the bar of judgment, and hear
their sentence pronounced, by the judge of all
the world, "Depart ye, ye cursed, into everlast-
ing fire, prepared for the devil and his angels,"
and their terrible feelings at their doom,
andthen to hear the sentence of those now
persecuted, "Come, ye blessed of my Father,"
etc.
	We can well afford to be brave, for He who
has ordained all things in His own wise way,
has ordered these trials and tribulations to
come upon us, that we may grow more perfect,
and come nearer to God; and then, if we have
these trials to contend with. we will not have 
so much time to spend on fashion and other
frivolous pastimes, that help to lower and de-
grade the mind.
	An again, when we look around us it is
really surprising, to an intelligent, thinking
mind, how the petty vice, prejudice, is ruling
the world to-day. To think, in as an enlightend
age as this, that prejudice is allowed to rule
the people to such an extent as it does in re-
gard to the Latter-day Saints. To me it carries
an odor of ignorance with it wherever it is to
be found. Some people visit us and have the
opportunity of seeing and knowing for them-
selves, and yet they are so steeped in egotism
that they will not accept of these opportuni-
ties, seemingly in fear of finding out that we,
as a people, are greatly misrepresented, or
sometimes they are so egotistical that they
know it all any way, while some that have
never been here, and know nothing but from
hearsay, help to encourage and circulate all
kinds of bad reports against us.
	One incident that happened to an aunt of
mine I will here relate. While getting ready
to come to the far west, she stepped into a
milliner store, where she was well acquainted.
to make some purchases. After the usual
greetings were over, she said, "We are all
sorry to lose such a good citizen as you are; I
am afraid, that in coming in contact with those
people, you will become as degraded as they
are." She also said, "Why, the women work
so hard, they have to do all the work out of 
doors there!" My aunt replied in her usual
calm, dignified, straight forward manner, "In-
deed! is that really so?" and the lady again re-
plied, "Yes, that is really so." Then said my
aunt, "We read of beautiful cities and villages
being laid out there, beautiful buildings erected


and in fact I have seen them. Don’t you feel
proud of our sex, to know that they have such
great capabilities?” She seemed dumbfounded;
she knew not what to say; she stuttered, stam-
mered, and finally changed the subject.
	To me this little incident goes a great way
to show that prejudice, pride and arrogance
should be put out of reach in some far away
corner,that none could handle them only those
that are doomed to be destroyed. 	IDA.


