DEAR EDITOR:
	I thought I would write a few lines to the
EXPONENT, if you thought proper to insert
them in your valuable little paper.
	I am glad to notice in the paper the interest
that the sisters take in it. I thought I would
like to be one amongst them to bear my mite
of testimony to the great work of the last
days,to encourage all to press onward courage-
ously and faithfully; never mind the scoffs and
frowns of the world; we have all got a cross to
bear, and it will make our cross the brighter
to shine when we have performed our part,and
shown to all the world and our Heavenly
Father, that we are on His side. Some have
only been engaged but a short time in this
work, and some have been for years; I myself
have been engaged in it for thirty-two years,
and have had many ups and downs in it, and
expect many more if I am spared much longer;
but my age tells me not to make any promises,
but to hold on to-day, and if I am spared till
to-morrow, still hold on, for we know not what
to-morrow may bring forth. It is a time of
trouble, but we were never promised much
pleasure in this life, and if it were not for the
hope that is in us, through the promise of the
word of God, I fear if many would be able to
stand firm, but I would say dear sisters never
mind the scoffs and trials of this world, we
have all a cross to bear, and if found faithful
it will only make our cross the brighter.
	Then let us try and bear all that is put up-
on us, till we are called to give account of our-
selves; then how pleased shall we be to hear
the welcome word, "Well and faithfully done,
enter into my rest." Oh! how good will that
rest be after such a life of toil and trouble
that some of us have borne. I can say my
whole life, since I embraced the Gospel, has
been one continual trial and vexation, but I
want to hold on, and if possible to find that
rest which the Scriptures speak of, "There re-
maineth, therefore, a rest for the people of
God."
	Dear sisters, that we may be found faithful
to our covenants and enter into the joy of our
Lord, is the prayer and wish of your sister in
the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
	With best feelings for all who love the Gos-
pel of our Lord Jesus Christ, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		E. B.


