	FUTURE STATE.

	Many diverse opinions have been entertained
by different religious sects and nations as to if we
had an existence after we ceased to breathe, and
if so, what was the condition of the spirit after it
had left the body?
	All professors of religion, at the present time,
believe in an after life, but with the exception of a
few, often ridiculous notions, are at a loss to de-
termine how the spirit is employed in its new
home.
	The Spiritualists do not claim to be a religious
sect—that is, they do not recognize any priesthood,
but all of their teachings are unreasonable, when
compared with what we know of mind, and the
conclusions we would naturally arrive at concern-
ing the next world from the experience and knowl-
edge we have of this.
	The Essenees, the most strict of the Jewish sects,
believed that souls were immortal, and when re-
leased from their bodies rejoiced, and mounted
upwards, and that good souls had their home be-
yond the ocean, from which blew a gentle west
wind, where there was neither storms of rain or
snow, nor intense heat; "while they allotted to the
bad souls a dark and tempestuous den, full of never
ceasing punishments."
	The Greeks allotted the islands of the blessed
to their brave men, whom they called heroes, or
demi-gods, and to the souls of the wicked the re-
gion of the ungodly in Hades.
	Josephus also informs us that the Pharisees be-
lieved that "under the earth there would be re-
wards or punishments, accordingly as they had
lived virtuously or viciously in this life," and that
the souls of good only were removed into other
bodies, or would have power to revive and to live
again in this world, and that the souls of bad men
are subject to eternal punishment.
	The Sadducees did not believe in the immortality
of t he soul.
	The Romans judge that man, happy, who died
in battle, and believed, his spirit "was received by
the ether and joined to that company which are
placed among the stars, and that they became
good demons, and showed themselves to their
posterity afterwards."  While to those who died
a natural death, though they lived good lives,
there came a subterranean night to dissolve them
to nothing, and a deep oblivion to take away all
remembrance of them.
	Socrates, an Athenian philosopher, who died
399 years B.C., believed in the immortality of the
soul, and that the dead were conducted by demons
to a place where they were all judged; that the
very wicked were hurled into Tartarus, from where
they never departed; that others suffered accord-
ing to their sins, and that the innocent inhabited


a pure region, without their bodies, enjoying every
pleasure.
	Pythagoras advanced the doctrine of the me-
tempsychosis, or transmigration of souls:
	The Egyptians, to whom he was indebted for it,
thought that at death souls transmigrated into
other human bodies; that if they had been wicked
they were imprisoned for some centuries in the
bodies of unclean beasts until they had atoned for
their sins, when they were allotted a human form.
Another of their beliefs was, that the body would
rise after some years, while the soul, though
bound to it, was at liberty to leave the grave and
ruturn to it during the day time, in any form it
choose.
	The belief of Socrates on this point corresponds
very nearly with our own, and we can say with
him, "If what I say is true I gain everything, 
whilst I hazard very little, and if false, I lose
nothing; on the contrary, I am still a great 
gainer."
