BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Father arose and, said:" 'Bro. Kimball
has mentioned the idea of writing things down,
in order that you may ask questions. It is a
good idea.	*	*	I love intelli-
gence, and it is a perfect torment for me to
sit down and talk to some people. Many a
time I have sat down and talked with folks
upon trivial matters, and have actually got
some new ideas by asking a little question.
Some, from diffidence, are backward in asking
intelligence; but no gentleman would laugh or
sneer at another when a question was asked,
even if it was an ignorant one.'
	"Brother Kimball asked the brethren and
sisters if they had enjoyed this party as well
as the one at the Council House. They all
answered Yes.' He observed that he would
like to have his children learn to calm them-
selves, and he hoped that they would mind and
keep the watch wound up, and when they lost
time refer to the chronometer.
	"A hymn being sung the meeting was dis-
missed with a benediction by Bishop Whitney.
Bro. Kimball dismissed them also with his
blessing."
	One thing, which I have neglected to men-
tion, was the kind and brotherly feeling mani-
fested by the brethren towards Bishop Miller,
whenever he came down on his way to Missouri,
where he went to trade for provisions. It
seems that they prevailed on him to return to
Winter Quarters, and at a meeting held at
the Council House, January 26th, he being
present, "it was moved by President Young,
and stated by President Kimball, that inas-
much as Bishop Miller, being here, is about to
return to this place with his family, we build
him a house. Carried unanimously." Wm.
Pitt moved that John Kay also return.
Seconded and carried.
	Monday. February 15th, my husband men-
tions the Bishop's arrival from Punkaw, bring-
ing with him part of his family, his house
being nearly finished.
	A party was given on the 16th by President
Brigham Young to his adopted children.
Horace says, "I went, by invitation, as a musi-
cian, with some others of the band; had a first
rate dinner, and spent the time very agreeably.
Toward evening a couple of brethren from the
army arrived, viz., Bros. Thippetts and Woolsey.
They had journeyed thirty days without eating
anything, except wild game, on the road. 'They
were invited in to supper by Bro. Brigham.
They had been robbed on the road by the In-
dians, and divested of most of their apparel.
They said that most of the brethren were lo-
cated about three hundred miles from Santa
Fe, and this side of the mountains, where they
intend to remain this winter. A number of
them had died by various diseases—the ague
and fever, etc. The names of those who had
died were read over by Brigham, and among
them was the name of Joseph Richards, the
son of Phinehas Richards."


[Column 1]
	On the 18th mention is made of Bro. Luke
Johnson and his sister (Marinda Hyde) being
with us. The heaviest snow storm of the sea-
son visited us that night, which prevented
them from returning home—on the other side
of the river—the snow having completely
blocked up all the roads. On the Sunday fol-
fowing another family meeting was held at
father's, who was still quite unwell. Brother
Brown and Bishop Whitney preached.
	"Tuesday, the 23rd. The bishops, with the
poor, and the soldiers' wives of the several
wards, met at the Council House to enjoy
themselves. I attended, with some others of
the band."
	"Wednesday, the 24th. Snowed consider-
ably to-day, as well as yesterday. My wife's
health is improving slowly. She has lately
been afflicted with canker. She has now been
sick five weeks last Sunday. I am also troubled
considerably with the canker in my mouth.
The company of pioneers will probably start
for the mountains in about four weeks, in or-
der to get to our place of location in time to
put in a spring crop."
	On the 1st day of March he wrote: "Beauti-
ful weather. Ellis Eames, a player on the
violin, came up from the Point—a number of
the band, including him and myself, went
around in a sleigh this evening (Porter driv-
ing) and serenaded several places in the town.
Bro. Kimball was along with us. We stopped
at Bishop Hunter's and played a tune, then, by
invitation of Bro. Kimball, went to his house,
where we spent some time in dancing.
	"Tuesday, the 2nd.	*	*	This
evening Bro. Kay arrived from the Punkaw
nation, having left his family and some others
fifty miles from here, not being able to get
here, in consequence of their feed for cattle
having failed."
	"Wednesday,	*	*	a number of
the band went around and raised a contribu-
tion for Bro. Kay, in corn and meal, etc.—We
got nine bushels of the former. Played with
some others of the band for the quorum of
High Priests, whose parties commenced yester-
day."
	The next day he says, "This morning Bro.
Kay and James Clayton started with their pro-
visions to go back; also this morning Ellis
Eames, J. Redding, Merit Rockwell, two
ladies and myself went down to the point in
Bro: Kimball's carriage, and attended a party.
I took my flute to assist Bro. Eames in playing.
Had a very good time, good supper, etc."
	On the evening of Saturday, the 5th, Bro.
John Kay arrived with his family.
	There was a meeting of father's company of
pioneers, held at the Council House, Monday
morning, it being the intention for some to
start soon, though the majority were not to
start under a week or so. Here Horace and
his brother Orson, concluded to go with the
pioneers in place of their father, and assist in
putting in crops, till the ground, etc., that the
families, when they came on, might have some-
thing to move to. All were busy now prepar-
ing, and laying in their supplies for the jour-
ney.
	Sunday, the 14th, my husband wrote: "By
father's request I went and copied an import-
ant document, which took me the greater part
of the day and into the night."
	The revelation on plural marriage was the
"document" referred to, the Bishop having the
only one in existence, which he afterwards
gave to President Young, retaining a copy.
	He mentions the black scurvy, which had
begun its work, and already many cases
had proved fatal. It would commence with dark
streaks and pains in the ends of the fingers
or toes, which increased and spread till the
limbs were inflamed and became almost black,
causing such intense agony that death would
be welcomed as a release from their suffering.

[Column 2]
It was caused by the want of vegetable food
and living so long on salt meat without it.
	It was now a year or more since the majority
had left their homes and civilizatian behind,
and our trail was marked by the lonely
mounds of the dead, who had made a happy
escape from the sufferings and want to which
we were so many years subjected, through the
wickedness and injustice of man.


