	CORRESPONDENCE.

	GORHAM, N. H., June 22nd, 1885.
DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	 We had a pleasant trip from Salt
Lake to New York—stopped at various points of
interest along the way, not forgeting one lovely
day at Niagara Falls.  From New York we took
coast steamer to Portland, stopping over one
day in Boston.
	Since our arrival we have been visiting most of
the time in  vicinity of Bethel, and other small
villages, situated on the Androscoggin, Sunday
and Bear Rivers in Maine.  The principal occu-
pation of the people in that vicinity is farming in
the summer and lumbering in the winter; but the
seasons are so short and the soil so unproductive,
that they have, to “go west” for bread.  They ex-
port lumber and import wheat, corn, etc.
	Maine is noted for her pine forests,and they
are lovely.  The sugar maple,from which the best
maple sugar and honey are made,grows abundant-
ly.  Spruce trees grow here in great numbers, and
some people make a business of collecting the
gum from these trees and sending it all over the
country. Poplar trees are ground into pulp, and
from this some of the finest paper is made. The
poplar is also used largely to make the spools up-
on which our cotton thread is wound, and large
quantities of the 'spoolsticks," as they are called,
are sent to Europe.  A large per cent of the
woodmen are Canadian French, that come across
the border, great numbers from Prince Edward’s
Island, and Nova Scotia.
	They cut down the trees in the winter, and then,
during the high water in spring and early summer,
they float them down the river to the mills and the
sea coast. It is quite a picturesque sight to see
these  "river drivers,” as they are called, especial-
ly at night when they have their bright camp fires
burning, and their white tents pitched by the
river.
	In campany with a party of friends I visited
one of the French camps in the woods, where
they had been choping.  It was Sunday, so they
were not at work, and the swarthy, lounging men,
the blackeyed, vivacious women, and the bare-
footed children reminded me of a gypsy camp.
Their houses were made in the most economical
manner, of a few boards and limbs, covered with
birch bark.  They say that in the winter the heat
from the inside melts the snow on the outside,
forming a coating of ice, something after the man-
ner of Esquimaux houses, and making them very
comfortable. 
	To get to the camp we had to cross the river on
logs floating in the water.  They assured us there
was no danger in crossing, but the logs danced up
and down in a delightfully promiscuous manner;

[Column 2]
but with the assistance of one of the "hands" we
got across with no more results than wet feet. A
number of children were paddling around on
floating logs with sticks, and quite frequently
some one would give the log a quick turn and
hal a dozen of them would go splashing into the
water. They were good swimmers; so it did no
harm, and they were greeted by a shout of laugh-
ter from their friends on the shore.  They treated
us kindly, and were quite sociable, as much so as
they could be under the circumstances.  The little
French I remembered they understood readily,
and some of them spoke pretty good English.
	I like this part of the country very much for
summer. I never get tired of walking through
the woods, where so many pretty wild flowers,
ferns and mosses can be found, and the grandest
trees, rocks and waterfalls.  The rivers and lakes
are a paradise for fishermen, and the trout caught
here makes as dainty a breakfast dish as one
could ask for.
	Maine is noted for her strict prohibition laws,
and although the law is sometimes evaded, still
drunkenness is not so prevalent here as in many
other places; but the profanity is something dread-
ful.  The most shockingly profane language is
used in common conversation, and even by little,
children. The people, as a rule, are thrifty, in-
dustrious and intelligent.  I have heard a great
deal said about the women of Utah having to per-
form manual labor, but never in my life have I
seen women do so much out door work as here.
It is a common sight to see them driving a horse
in the field, planting corn, etc., and I was told
that one young lady managed a mowing machine,
and cut all the hay on a farm, last year. I don’t
think there is  anything wrong about this, if they
choose to do it, and I do not consider that it de-
tracts anything from, their natural refinement,
but it does indicate that they possess a stronger
degree of muscular power than most young ladies
can boast of.  I read a letter, written bythe same
young lady I have mentioned; the penmanship
was very nice, and, so far as I was able to judge,
there were no mistakes in spelling, punctuation, or
grammar. 
	Though my letter is written in New Hamshire,
it is principally descriptive of Maine, but there is
not so very much difference, as Gorham is just
over the border.  It is a charming place though,
at the foot of the White Mountains, and I like it
as well as any place I have seen.
	We are enjoying our visit very much;
both mother's health and mine is very good, and we
have found many kind friends here. With kind
wish,	Yours,
