AUTOBIOGRAPHY
	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG
		Continued.
	"Verily I say unto<i loiri="" ,="" “--="" i="" hr="" 1="" jwi="" t="" tcdhlinued?"1="" ri-!:?n!=""> you, who have assembled 
yourselves together, that you may learn my
will concerning the redemption of mine afflict-
ed people: 
	Behold, I say unto you, were it not tor, the
transgressions of my people, speaking concern-
ing the Church, and not as individuals, they
might have been redeemed even now: but be-
hold, they have not learned to be obedient to
the things that I require  of their hands, but
are full of all manner of evil, and do not im-
part of their substance, as becometh Saints, to
the poor and afflicted among them, and are
not united according to the union required by 
the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I
cannot receive her unot myself; and my people
must be chastened until they learned obedience,
if it must needs be by the things which they
suffer.
	I speak not concerning those who are appoint-
ed to lead my people, who are the first Elders
of my Church, for they are not all under this
condemnation; but I speak concerning my
Churches abroad: there are many who will say,
'Where is there God? Behold, He will deliver
in time of trouble; otherwise we will not go up
unto Zion, and will keep our moneys.' There-
fore, in consequence of the transgression of my
people, it is expedient in me that mine Elders
should wait for a little season for the redemp-
tion of Zion, that they themselves may be pre-
pared, and that my people may be taught more
perfectly, and have more experience and know
more perfectly concerning their duty, and the
things whihc I requireat their hand; and this
cannot be brought to pass until mine Elders
are endowed with power from on high: for be-
hold, I have prepared a great endowment and 
blessing to be poured out upon them, inasmuch
as they are faithful, and continue in humility
before me; therefore, it is expedient in me that
mine Elders should wait for a little season for
the redemption of Zion, for behold, I do not
require at their hands to fight the battles of
Zion; for, as I said in a former commandment, 
even so I will fulfill, I will fight your battles.
	Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to
destroy and lay waste mine enemies; and not
many years hence they shall not be left to pol-
lute mine heritage, and to blaspheme my name
upon the lands which I have consecrated for
the gathering together of my Saints.
	Behold, I have commanded my servant;
Baurak, he to say unto the strength of my
house, even my warriors, my young men and
middle aged, to gather togather for the redemp-
tion of my people, and throw down the towers
of mine enemies, and scatter their watchmen;
but the strength of mine house hath not
hearkened unto my words; but inasmuch as
there are those who have hearkened unto my
wors, I have prepared a blessing and an en-
dowment for them, if they continue faithful; I
have heard their prayers, and will accept their
offering, and it is expedient in me that they
should be brought thus far for a trial of their
faith. And now, verily I say unto you, that
as many as have come  hither, that can stay
in the region round about, let them stay; and
those that cannot stay, who  have families‘m
the east, let them tarry for a little season in-
asmuch as my servant joseph shall appoint
unto them, for I will counsel him concerning
this matter, and all things whatsoever he shall
appoint unto them shall be fulfilled.
	And left all my people who dwell in the
regions round about be very faithful and
humble before me, and reveal not the things
which I have revealed unto them, until it is
wisdom in me that they should be revealed.
talk not of judgment, neither boast of faith,
nor of many works, but carefully gather to-
gether, as much in one region as can be con-
sistently with the feelings of the people, and
behold, I will give unto you favor and grace in
their eyes, that you may rest in peace and
safety while you are saying unto the people,
execute judgment and justice for us according
to law, and redress us of our wrongs.
	Now, behold, I say unto you, my friends, in
this way you may  favor in the eyes of the
people, until the army of Israel becomes very
great; and will soften the hearts of the peo-
ple, as I did the heart of Pharaoh, from time
to time, until my servant Baurak Ale and
	Baneemy, whom I have appointed, shall have
time to gather up the strength of my house,
and to have sent wise men to fulfill that which
I have commanded concerning the purchasing
of the lands in Jackson County, that can be
purchased, and in the adjoining counties
round about, for it is my will that these lands
should be purchased, and after they are pur-
chased that my Saints should possess them ac-
cording to the laws of consecration which I
have been given; and after these lands are purchased
I will hold the armies of Israel guiltless in
taking possession of their own lands, which
they have previously purchased with their
moneys, and of throwing down the towers of
mine enemies that may be upon them, and
scattering their watchmen, and avenging me of
mine enemies, unto the third and fourth genera-
tion of them that hate me. But firstly let my
army become very great, and let it be sancti-
fied before me, that it may become fair as thtr
sun, and clear as the moon, and that her ban-
ners may be terrible unto all nations, that
the kingdoms, of this world may be constrained
to acknowledge that the kingdom of Zion is in
very deed, the kingdom  our God and Hi3
Christ: therefore let is be subject unto her
laws.  -	1  
Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me
that the first Elders of my Church should re- 
ceive their endowments from on high, in ray
house, which I have commanded to be built
Unto my name in the land of Kirtland, and
let those commandments which I have given
concerning' Zion and her laws be executed and
fulfilled alter her redemption.
 There has been a day of calling, but the
time has come for a day of choosing, and let
those be chosen that are worthy, and it shall be.
manifested unto my servant, by the voice of my
Spirit, those that are chosen, and they shall be
sanctified; and inasmuch as they follow the
counsel which they receive they shall have
power, after many days, to accomplish all
things pertaining to Zion.
 And again I say unto you, sue for peace; not
Only the people that have smitten you, but also
to all people; and lift up an ensign of peace,
and make a proclamation for peace unto the
ends of the earth; and make proposals for
peace unto those who have smitten you, ac-
cording to the voice of the spirit which is in
you, and all things shall work together for your
good: therefore,  faithful, and behold, and
lo! I am with you even unto the end; even so.
Amen.”
 I did not intend to insert the whole of the
foregoing revelation, but I found nothing to
leave out; and perhaps it may be better under-
stood to read it in connection with the circum-
stances that called it forth. 
	"About this time," the Prophet says, " Bro's 
Thayre and Hayes (in Zion's camp) were at- 
tacked with the cholera, and Brother Hanock 
was taken during the storm. I called the
camp together and told them that in conse-
quence of the disobedience of some who
had been unwilling to listen to my words, but
had rebelled, God had decreed that sickness
should come upon them and that they should 
die like sheep with the rot; that I was sorry,
but I could not help it. Previous to this, while
on our journey, I had predicted and warned
them of the danger of such chastisement, but
there is some who would not give heed to my
words.
	"On the 23rd resumed our march for Liberty,
Clay-County, taking a circuitous course round
the head of Fishing River to avoid the deep
water. When within five or six miles of
Liberty we were met by Gen. Atchison and
other; gentlemen, who desired us not to go to
Liberty,.as the feelings of the people were so
enraged against us. At their communication
wa wheeled to the left, and crossing the prairie
and woodland came to Sidney Gilbert's resi-
dence, and encamped on the bank of Ittish
Creek, in Brother Burghart's field.
	"During this a council of High Priests as- 
sembled in fulfilment of the revelation given
the day previous, and the following individuals
were called and chosen as they were made
manifest unto me by the vioce of the Spirit
and revelation to receive their endowment:
Edward Partridge was called and chosen to go
to Kirtland and receive his endowment with
power from on high, and also to stand in his
office as Bishop, to purchase lands in the State
of Missouri." Several others were called and
chosen at this time to go to Kirtland and re-
ceive their endowments.
	"The same day the Elders made the follow-
ing reply, as before referred to. to S. E. Owens
and others, committee of the Jackson County
mob."


