IN MEMORIAM.

	It is a sweet reward to merit an honorable remembrance
among the Saints of God, and it is with sadness and regret
that we record the demise of another beloved sister, faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, devoted mother and true help-meet to
man.
	Harriet Davis Hughes, wife of Francis D. Hughes, was
born in Glamorganshire, South Wales, January 24th, 1839,
and after having "fought the good fight and kept the
faith," passed peacefully to her rest, in the Eleventh Ward
Salt Lake City, June 1st, 1885, where she was a teacher in
the Relief Society, and a member of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Sister Hughes embraced the Gospel in her youth, and
was ever a sincere defender of its principles, in private and
public, especially that of celestial marriage, to the truth and
divinity of which she bore a powerful testimony on her
death bed. She always expressed great pride and satisfac-
tion in having accepted in practice that order of marriage,
and the effect of her influence upon her daughters is that
they also honor that holy principle, which was revealed to
their mother in a heavenly vision, which so impressed her
that she became one of its strongest advocates, a synopsis
of which may interest others.
	After seeing many things, she found herself in the mids
of a large forest, and all the trees, as far as her vision ex-
tended, appeared to be withered and dry; the withered
remains of flowers and grasses also filled up the desolate
landscape; not a leaf, or anything indicating life, could be
seen While contemplating the probable cause of such a
calamity, a messenger of exceeding pleasing countenance
stood by her and pointed in another direction, when the
most lovely scene opened to her view—a beautiful land


filled with verdure and the perfume of flowers, vast forests
with their rich foliage extended on every hand, while the
murmur of gently rippling brooklets, and the sweet singing
birds, with their variegated plumage,awakened in her heart
the most heavenly feeling she had ever experienced.
	While gazing enraptured on this beautiful picture the
messenger touched her on the shoulder, and pointing to
the desolation of the first view, said: "This is a true repre-
sentation of the momogamic system of marriage, here is
the end of their increase, and the other represents the holy
order, the new and everlasting covenant of celestial marri-
age. Here is eternal increase, here is peace, eternal life
and joy."
	Just previous to her death she had another vision, the
substance of which I will give as related by her daughter:
	"One night while I was watching by my mother, being
overcome with sleep, I laid down upon her bed—I heard
the most lovely singing. Many voices joined in the chorus
and as the voices gradually died away, I awoke and mother
was still singing. Presently she opened her eyes and told
me she had been in the spirit world, where she was in a
large hall filled with women, who greeted her with singing
as she entered, and she joined in with them, and strange to
say I heard the singing, too." She said all the women
were plural wives, and that there was no distinction between
first, second, or third wives there, all were equal, all was
peace and purity.
	Sister Hughes was a woman of great faith, determined
energy, and of a most cheerful disposition. Her life was
not a "flowery bed of ease" but while surrounded with
many cares and trials, her cheerful presence was an inspira-
tion of hope and courage to those less happily gifted. Of
her it can be truly said that "they who knew her best loved
her most." She was a firm pillar in her own household,
who most keenly feel the loss of her companionship. "Her
children rise up and call her blessed," and the record of her
noble character and useful life is worthy a place in the his-
tory of the women of Israel.		L. T. F.
	July 6th, 1885.


