EXTRACTS FROM AN IRISH 
		LETTER.
	I have just returned from a trip into the country
of Antrim. The whole country, as far as I have
seen it, is surpassingly beautiful—new changes
and never ending green and brown, with hawthorn
hedges wherever one turns, and the long, winding
roads, and wild flowers—violets, daisies, oceans
of fragrant primroses and dandelions—growing in
reckless, profusion along the banks of streams,
hiding under the hedges, and bursting into view
through every gap in the green and thorny hedge.
Then there is the buttercup and a yellow blossom
about the size of a $20 gold peice, perhaps a
trifle, smaller, shaped much like a buttercup,
which grows in dank and boggy places, and is
called the mayflower. It is the brightest of gold-
en yellow, rich in color beyond belief almost.
	We are poor indeed, in wild songsters,compared
with this country. Our robbin is nearly twice the
size of that here, and the yellow and red-breasted
little fellow here sings twice as sweet. The wren
is a little midget;the pugnacious sparrow, the lark,
the thrush, the starling, the yellow yarling, the
blue top and many others, besides the magpie and
the noisy, cawing crow. Wherever trees grow to
a considerable height, there you will find a con-
gregation of crows building their huge and clumsy
nests in the topmost boughs, and keeping up a
never ending and almost deafening cawing.
	I heard the cuckoo, the other day, for the first
time in my left. I was wandering in the evening
along a deep, shady hedge, and I thought some
one in a distant field was calling his cows, when
the bird flew swiftly above me and disappeared in
a wooded hill in the neighborhood. I have heard
it several time since,but have not been able to see
it plainly as yet.
	The town Antrim, which I visited, is a rare old-
fashioned place, and is well worth a visit, and I
have regretted deeply that I did not reach it until
evening and that I left it in the darkness of the
same night.
	It has a quaint, quiet, old fashioned look about
it that was captivating; and its old time market,
and chapel, and the high wall and castle of Lord
Masserine make it a place worth cultivating. But
more than all this, than the splendid castle and
grounds of Lord Masserine, which I could see
very plainly, though only for a moment, was a
splendid trout stream, that sweeps down the side
of the town, past the castle, and empties into a
beautiful sheet of water called the Lough Neagh.
It is a fresh water body, said to be the largest
in the United Kingdom, and is about seven miles
wide, by fourteen miles long. Though the hour
was late and the sun had already sunk, I could not
resist a walk in the twilight, which lingers so long
in this clime, and I shall never regret it.
	Leaving the town, a winding, well kept road
leads through a wild wood, with green grass and
flowers springing everywhere, to a little bay, in
which were anchored yachts and fishermen’s
yawls, while all about were nets and the appliances
of fishermen. Away out upon the water, in the
clear and lingering twilight, the little boats could
be seen resting, seemingly without motion, on the
placid, unruffled bosom of the lake. The stars be-
gan to peep, the warm tints were gradually dying
out of the heavens, the vesper song of the birds
grew fainter and fainter, as the eye reached far-
ther and farther into the darkening west.
	If tears filled those eyes,because the vision was
limited, and because, though the heart so longed
to see dear ones away, away, away in the path of


the golden sun[-] none knew it but God and the
heavens and him who stood and gazed till his
heart was full and he could not speak. W.


