NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are eighty-one women county superin-
tendents of schools in Kansas.
	Belva Locdwood is expected in Salt Lake
City about the last of June, and will probably
lecture here.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, President of the
Woman's Exposition, will return from New
Orleans about June 15, and go at once to
Newport for the summer.
	Roberts Brothers of Boston, have just pub-
lished Miss Ingelow's new volume. It is en-
titled "Poems of the Old Days and the New."
—Ex.
	Mrs. E. C. Agassiz is said to be writing a
biography of her husband, Prof. Louis Agassiz,
with which will be incorporated many import-
ant letters.—Ex.
	The Empress of Austria, although a grand-
mother, is considered the first huntress in
Europe. She is fond of the society of circus-
riders on account of her love for the horse.
	The enormous cathedral of Moscow, built to
hold 10,000 persons, and at a cost of £2,000,
000, is just completed. It has taken fifty years
to build, and was intended to commemorate
the defeat of Napoleon.—Ex.
	The Rev. Dr. Shaw, of Rochester, N. Y.,
pastor of the largest Presbyterian Church in
the United States except one, lately preached
a sermon in which he avowed his belief in
woman suffrage, and declared that he saw no
reason why a woman should not be President
of the Untied States—Ex.
	Victor Hugo, who died last month in Paris
was one of the most distinguished men of the
age. Victor Hugo was born at Basancon,
France, on the 26th of February, 1802. His
father, who was from Lorraine, was a brilliant
General under the first Napoleon. His mother
was a remarkably brave and courageous
woman, and the poet in his verses referring to
his romantic and adventurous life, says he
wandered all over Europe before he was born.
Although his father wished him to be educated
and trained for the military, his inclinations
led him in the direction of literature, and that
of a high order. The first three odes which
made him famous were written before he was
twenty—"The Virgins of Verden," "Henry


IV's Statue," and "Moses in the Nile." At
the age of 14 he had composed a tragedy—
"Irtamene," and two lyric pieces, "The Rich
and the Poor" and "The Canadian." Victor
Hugo believed in the largest liberty, political,
religious and intellectual, and was, in the best
sense of the term, a humanitarian. France
mourns her hero, patriot and poet, for indeed
he was greatly beloved Yet he lived to a
good old age and had filled up his days in use-
fulness.


