BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	The first day of May dawned calm, bright and beauti-
ful, as many of the children of the First Ward of Richfield
hoped it would.
	There was a surprise party on hand for Grandma Hay-
ward, First Counselor in the Primary Association of said
ward. It was the seventy-first birthday of this venerable
lady.
	At two o’clock parents and children were seen wending
their way toward the Social Hall, which was nicely decora-
ted with pictures, evergreens, etc., with baskets filled with
the very nicest of picnic. A half an hour later Sister Hay-
ward was cordially escorted to the hall by her husband and
the President of the Association, Sister Nancy Nebeker.
Here she found the members of the Association, Bishop,
of the ward, her only daughter, Mrs. Wm. Baker, her
grandchildren and great-grandchildren and other friends,
anxiously waiting her arrival. On entering she was
greeted by a song of welcome, sung by a number of the
larger girls of the Association. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Paul Poulson. A short programme was gone
through with, consisting of speeches, songs recitations, etc.
Miss Lizzie Baker, Sister Hayward's granddaughter, re-
cited the following piece, which was compos[-]ed for the oc
casion. 

	Dear Grandma Hayward, “I’m much surprised,"
		We think we hear you say,
	But now we greet you one and all
		On your seventy-first birthday.

	Tis not an empty show of love
		That we now offer you,
	But a love that’s grown within ourselves,
		From hearts, most firm and true.

	We call ourselves your children,
		We listen to your voice,
	We heed your good instructions,
		And in this we do rejoice.

	We rejoice that you are with us,
		That you have lived to see
	The blessings that are realized
		In the children’s Primary.

	Accept the feeble tokens
		That are offered to you here,
	'Tis but a small endeavor,
		Which we’ve made, your heart to cheer.
	
	And let us now assure you
		Our wishes we renew,
	That many, many birthdays
		May be in store for you.

	That for many, many years to come
		You may live to guide and bless
	The members of the Primary	 
		To lives of usefulness.

	After the poem Sister Hayward was presented with a
beautiful quilt, made by the President and older members
of the Association.	
	She was almost overcome with this token of love and
respect, but expressed her desire to aid in building up, and
in the advancement of the young people of Zion.
	Bishop Poulson then encouraged the children and all
present never to tire in well doing.	
	Our company then partook of a bounteous picnic, after
which the children joined in a dance until dusk; then all
went home, thinking over what an enjoyable time they
had spent.	Respectfully,
