		[A CHARACTER.]

   Manners polished, easy, graceful, obliging,
delicate and unobstrusive, denoting superior
birth and education. The upper part of the
face handsome; hair black; eyes blue--a con-
trast not often seen--benevolence, the ruling
expression of the face, that of the eyes, pen-
sive and meditative, but when in conversation
they seem to ignite from within, and become
capable of a complex expression. Touch but
the chords on which, hung grievous sorrows
and injuries, such as few are called upon to
pass through, and they darted forth fierce and
riery rays, and the passion vein of the fore-
head would swell well nigh to bursting; pas-
sionate words would escape, the lip curled with
a bitterness unnatural to it; but soon would
come the crushing sense of the impotence of
such feelings; then would be felt, in all its
agony, the entire prostration of all power in
SELF, the eyes would swim in boiling tears,
that seemed to scald instead of soothe, and
memory, that curse and blessing of our exist-
ence, would, for the moment, well nigh extin-
guish the kindly feeling of that kind heart;
but 'twould pass--the swollen vein would
gradually  disperse, that tried heart would
cease its mighty pulsation, its bitter throbbings,
and the countenance wear again the index of
peace and serenity.
   Few have witnessed such sad extremes of
fortune.  Not only were house and lands, home
and hearth broken up, but every tie to which
the heart fondly links itself--all were reckless-
ly severed, and left that mighty heart seared
on the Pyre of Patriotism! But though all
these were rent asunder friends sprang up
around the exile to speak the consoling word,
and administer both to the mental and to the
corporeal. Friendship, warm and faithful, none
could drive away, no change of fortune could
extinguish. It hovered like a guardian angel
over the doomed, and poured the "oil and
wine" of sympathy into the lacerated bosom
of the exile and the solitary.
   Fond of solitude--society recalling too
vividly sad reverses and bereavements; but
within the circle that friendship drew around,
cheerful, polite, and even for a few moments,
sometimes gay; but soon an air of sadness and
indifference would be visible, for retrospective
thoughts would crowd upon that mind, and
the laugh would become hysterical and the
countenance indicate that "when the heart is
better than the fortune there is something that
makes even affection bitter!” Yet over all
there was thrown a dignified resignation, that
ever exerted its supremacy--and gratitude for
the sympathy and loving kindness of friends,
so liberally tendered, was never for a moment
extinguished by one who was singularly sensi-
tive and appreciative.
   How I longed at that moment to be rich
and powerful, that I might bless myself in
blessing one who stood in such impressive
need.
   Who can see a "countenance sicklied o'er
with the pale cast of thought", which will in
future shine but through memory, and not
yearn to cheer, to lighten, to brush off--if only
with a feather from the downy wing of Chris-
tian love, a portion of that grief which "passeth
show?" to inflate the shrinking heart with
hope and joy, and raise the drooping head.
Thank God! this can be done without money
and without price! Yes, yes, this has been
done without the MAMMON of this world.

	Hail! heaven-born sympathy! magnetic power,
	The sweetest cordial in th' afflictive hour.
	Tho' poor we be, and impotent to save,
	This precious balm the loving always have.
	Oh, why is sorrow, why corroding care
	To some apportioned in so large a share?
	Their lives one scene of desolating woe,
	And joy and happiness they rarely know--
	Their sun of peace but gilds life's chequered scene,
	Like angel visits, "few and far between;
	'Tis not for sinners to arraign the rod--
	"Be still," ye mortals, know that I am God!
	Father of Love, we bow before Thy throne,
	And trembling faith would lisp, "Thy will be done."
