SOME AFFAIRS IN ENGLAND.

	Gladstone’s resignation of the position next to
the Queen herself must have been a surprise to
the English people, who look with such pride and
admiration upon all places of honor near the
throne, and especially upon any one who is in the
confidence of her Royal Highness. This move-
ment will be likely to bring about serious conse-
quences, although, perhaps the Marquis of Salis-
bury, whom the Queen immediately summoned to
her assistance to aid in arranging matters with a
view to creating a new cabinet, may manage the
present crisis of affairs so diplomatically that the
people will scarcely realize the radical change that
is being brought about, for England has an adap-
tation in matters of State, whereby very grave
questions are adjusted with such nicety and pre-
cision that the great world scarcely heeds it more
than a ripple on a summer sea. But the policy of
the incoming party is likely to be so widely differ-
ent from the tenor of Gladstone’s administration
that, though the cabinet may come in with the
passiveness of the lamb, ere long there is sure to
be the roaring of lions, and it will disturb the
peaceful equanimity of those who have been ac-
customed to submit gracefully to liberal rule.
	Things have gone on so smoothly in England
during the reign of Queen Victoria, that the pres-
ent generation know very little of what actual
political disturbances in the United Kingdom
really are. But from the premonitions of the
times one cannot help anticipating difficulties that
will cause disturbances in the very heart of this
powerful empire.
	It is said the Queen has not been informed on
all matters on which Gladstone has acted in repre-
senting the government, and she is delighted with
his resignation. To exult in the downfall of any
one is not becoming, even in a queen, and in this
instance, in consequence of the complication of
questions that are already arising from this change,
Her Majesty may have an experience more try-
ing than the indifference of Gladstone to Royal
etiquette.
	If the attention is given to foreign policy to the
neglect of matters in the domain of England and
Scotland, etc., it will prove more or less disas-
trous to the government, and this seems to be the
present status of the affair. The masses of the
people do not care so much for foreign interests as
they do for bettering their own condition, and
they are not likely, with the enlightenment of the
nineteenth century, to be satisfied without due
attention to the questions pending in regard to
home affairs.
	The course the Queen is pursuing in not invit-
ing any of the royal family of Germany to the
wedding of the Princess Beatrice  will certainly
cause an unpleasantness that may not be so easily
conciliated, for these unobserved points of royal
etiquette are sometimes greater offenses than
things vastly more important.
	Germany is a great nation, and England can

			[Column 2]
carcely afford to overlook her even in matters of
etiquette, and especially on the occasion of a
royal marriage such as that of the Princess Bea-
trice to Prince Henry of Battenberg. It is said
too, that instead of being a “quiet” wedding, such
as had been at first intended, there is to be a great
deal of pomp and ceremony, and an elaborate and
artistic bride’s cake, built up in terraces and
placed upon a pedestal of gold. The weight
of the cake will be two hundred and fifty
pounds.
	Queen Victoria has settled the difficulty which
existed between Her Majesty and her son-in-law 
the Grand Duke of Hesse Darmstadt, which orig-
inated on account of his morganatic marriage to
Madame Kalomine. Report says previous to the
discovery of this secret marriage the Prince was
a suitor for the hand of the Princess Beatrice,and
a marriage was anticipated between the two as
soon as Parliament passed the bill permitting the
marriage to a deceased wife’s sister. This was of
course broken off as soon as the Queen discovered
his relationship to Madame Kalomine, The an-
nouncement has recently been made of his mar-
riage with the Princess Hilda of Hanault-Dessau
wdiich is soon to take place.


