BURNHAM, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   As there has been no mention of our affairs
in this far off place for some time, I thought
it would be well to speak once more, lest we be
forgotten, or at least, thought spiritually dead.
Our Young Ladies’ were reorganized last
winter with about twenty members—officers
and all.  Mary Burnham was chosen Presi-
dent; Eliza B. Farnsworth and Ardell Stevens,
Counselors; Jenny Allan, Secretary; Abbie
Stevens, Assistant Secretary; Lizzie Stevens,
Treasurer.  We have held our meetings quite
regular once a week, and each has manifested
a desire to improve.  Some essays have been
written, and many of them would have done
credit to a society of a more advanced age.
We have only the one organization at present,
and all are interested to help make it a suc-
cess.
	Our Sunday School was also partially
reorganized sometime ago, and is doing as
well as could be expected.  I think, sometimes,
those who live in large and old settlements in
Utah hardly realize what uphill work it is
to get along with so little material to work
with; yet we try to realize the fact that God
helps those who put their trust in Him, and
we are very thankful that thus far we are left
in peace, though we do not flatter ourselves we
are more deserving, but that our turn has not
been served yet, and we pray, when it is, that
we may follow the noble example set by some
of our Utah brethren and sisters.
	How we view with contempt the cowardly
actions of some who seem to prefer to be called
honorable  gentlemen  by  these  officious
officials, who have scarcely a conception of
honor,  rather  than  have  the  love  and
confidence of their brethren and sisters,
or the approval of the God whose laws
they have pretended to love; but they love
their own selfish natures the best, and will be
rewarded accordingly.
	God bless the Saints and all who are true,
and strengthen the cast down, is the prayer of
					MARY BURNHAM.
			      --------
	WHITECHAPEL BRANCH, LONDON.
	Zion is upward and onward, for "now is the
day of Israel.”  It those who are skeptical on
this point; or have the hardihood to call in
question the fact, had attended Orson’s large
assembly rooms in the Mile-End, on Wednesday
evening, March 25th, their conceived notions,
or errors on this point would have received a
most severe shock.  Such would have been
compelled to acknowledge that there is in
Mormonism an irresistible force and latent
power, that only requires occasion to call forth
and make manifest; for notwithstanding the
wave of persecution now passing over the Zion
of God, yet the Latter-day Saints follow on in
the even tenor of their way, and, like Jesus of
old, go about and try to do good,by visiting the
poor and succoring the needy.  Among the
various agencies for thus doing good the Relief
Society stands forth pre-eminently.
	On the above date, was celebrated the
eleventh anniversary of the Relief Society of
the above branch, by the usual concert or en-
tertainment.  The programme had received
a wise and judicious censorship, and so nothing
occurred or passed that could have offended the
most cultured taste, or infringed in the least de-
gree upon the rules of propriety.  As Saints of
God we desire to set a good example in all
things, even in our amusements.
	After singing a hymn, and prayer for the
divine blessing  by Elder J. G. M. Barnes,
Prest. H. Garner, who presided, called, at half
past seven o’clock, for the first song, and from
that time until eleven o’clock, with but a short
interval of ten minutes, the interest never
flagged.  In fact we are within bounds to re-
mark that enthusiasm prevailed throughout.
Again, in several instances, considerable talent
was displayed.  That the M. I. Associations in
London among the Saints, begin to bear good
fruit must have been patent even to the least
observant.
	In this limited space all that can be done is
to make a passing reference to a few, who, by
their talents, seem to demand some notice.  All,
however, tried to do their best.  I will here
remark that the concert was graced with the
presence of Elder C. W. Penrose, the talented
Editor of the Deseret News.  The song, com-
posed by him, entitled “The loved ones at
home,” was sung by Sister Angie Cross in her 
usual able style.  A part song by the Sisters
Chalk and S. Edgley was most pleasing, en-
titled “Love at Home."  A comic song, by
Elder W. Loveday, was a treat.  Sister A. Gell
again; excelled in her song, “The old Maid,"
given with quaint humor.  A Dutch Recita-
tion, by Elder C. Denny, was very amusing.
The Sisters Cornell sang most creditably, “He
wipes the tear from every eye,”  The twenty-
third Psalm was chanted in a most beautiful
manner by Sisters Isabella and Fanny Chalk--
alto and treble.  It was likely a fine treat to
hear Prest. Garner and family, with Sister M.
A. Edgley, sang a part song, “There is nothing
like the Mormons."  A lengthy song by a
young sister, M. A. Nunn,  "The Stowaway”
deserves more than passing notice.  Again the
Comic Recitation, composed by Bro. H. Garner,
and given by the writer, “The Cheap Jack,” 
excited general hilarity as did a song com- 
posed by the writer, entitled “The Mormon
Bells.  The Bros. Spillman likewise were very
amusing.  The following report was read by
the Secretary:
	Eleventh Annual Report of the Relief So-
ciety of the Whitechapel Branch, for the year
ending March 4th, 1885 This Society con-
sists of a President, two Counselors and eight
Teachers.  Number of meetings held during
the year, twenty-four.  Visits made, ninety.
Cash collected from all sources, *pound sign 12. 14s. 11d.
Disbursements, *pound sign 11 0s 10 1/2d.  On hand, *pound sign 1
14s. 0 1/2d.
	The Spirit of the Lord has been abundant-
ly in their midst, which  has given them assur-
ances that their Heavenly Father has approved
of their humble endeavors in trying to do what
they could.  Earnestly praying for a continu-
ance of His mercies and blessings during the
coming year, through Jesus Christ.  Amen.
			  MARY GARNER, President,
			  ANN GELL, Secretary.
   Elder Penrose made a few wise and fitting
remarks.  He said if the mothers were to im-
bibe noble ideas and impulses they would be
imparted to their offspring.
	A short address by Prest. L. Lund and
prayer by Elder R. Braby and one of the
most successful anniversaries, if not the most,
yet held was brought to a close.
	The large meeting hall had been rendered
most attractive by four large pictures or draw-


ings, and nineteen mottoes exhibited on the
walls, the work of Bro. Whitbeck; one of the
pictures depicting Elder R. Braby blessing a
child. The numbers who attended, including
strangers, was without precedent.
	ALEXANDER R. CLARK, Branch Sec.


