BEWARE OF PRIDE!

	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the meek, for

[Column 2]

they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are the pure
in heart, for they shall see god."—MATTHEW, 5th
chapter.
	Good evening, my dear EXPONENT! how glad I
am to see you, for I was wishing I had some one
to talk with, for I am feeling quite sad. I have
been reading about the terrible earthquake in
Madrid, the cholera in Asia, that awful water-
sprout in Texas, that destroyed so much life and
property, and about the yellow fever making its
appearance again at New Orleans, and of the In-
dians slaughtering the inhabitants of New Mexico
and, oh, dear! some few more of our brethren
have been arrested. Yet it is not all this alone
that brings the sigh, but some of the things we
saw at conference, which was over a few days ago.
There were some of our mothers in Israel dressed
in a very unbecoming manner—flowers, ribbons,
fringes and bugles, and I thought, oh! my soul,
what a pattern for the young, fair daughters of
Zion. "Mothers filled with so much pride and lofti-
ness, do you, or can you expect anything else
but that your daughters will go astray, seeking
after the vanities of the world? Oh, mothers! are
you followers of the meek and lowly Savior?
Then why so much pride! Have you read the
Scriptures, where it tells how the daughters of
Zion shall bow their heads with shame, and mourn
because of their pride?"
	Ah! here comes an old lady; she has grown old
and grey in the Church, suffered persecutions and
hardships, and should be respected and loved for
her faithfulness, left a widow early, with a family
of small children, which she has toiled day and
night with her own hands to raise respectably.
She has come to conference to renew her spiritual
strength, to associate with her brethren and sisters,
and hear the good instruction that is given to all.
She is neatly, though plainly dressed—as well as
her circumstances would allow—yet she does not
wear a bonnet covered with ribbons, flowers and
feathers; no, she has come a long distance to hear
the word of God from His servants, and her head
is covered in a neat sun bonnet.
	But what has she done that she should be
slighted by those proud ones? She has taken
them into her house and fed them, and given them
beds to sleep in, in times past. Then why not re-
turn such kindness? "Oh! she is not well dressed
and wears a sun bonnet." Indeed, but that is
awful. Well, would it take anything away from
your greatness to be kind to her, and make her
feel that she was welcome? When you receive
your crown as one of the queens in the celestial
city, do you think the shock would be too much
for you if you should see her there with her plain
clothes and sun bonnet.
	Out upon such pride; I have no patience with it.
Go humble yourselves, and repent of your sins in
sack cloth and ashes, ye Latterday Saints, or you
will never be among that choice number. Put by
your haughtiness, be meek and prayerful, kind
and loving to each other, for is not ours one com-
mon cause? Are not our fathers, husbands and
brothers in exile? Yes; and even some of them
groan in prison. Are not many calls made upon
our brethren and sisters for aid and assistance?
Then why should we, who are so small in the eyes
of the Lord, scorn our poor, but equally worthy
sisters?
	It would be more pleasing in the sight of the
Lord if we would all dress more plain, and not
run after the fashions of Babylon, lest we partake
of her sins and receive of her plagues. It would
be quite as becoming to Latter-day Saints, in this
day of trouble, to be more plain, and not spend
so much for foolishness, when with that means we
might do more good.
	A great deal is said about the word of wisdom.
There is no wisdom in following fashion and all
the nonsense that it brings. It will not exalt us
one whit in the estimation of good people. No,
but by our pride we lower ourselves. We also

[Column 3]

hurt the feelings of our poor brethren and sisters,
and this will be held against us.
	Now, my dear EXPONENT, will you be so kind
as to tell the sisters that there are many, very
many poor sisters who would gladly attend con-
ference if they could afford a better dress, so that
they would not be scorned by their well dressed
sisters. Oh! try and get rid of this unholy feeling,
my dear sisters, so that at the next conference the
poor can say they enjoyed themselves, and were
treated as they should be, on an equality, with
love, and respected as Latter-day Saints.
		K.


