		WOMAN'S SPHERE IN UTAH.

	The women of Salt Lake City, as will be seen
by the following communication, are not disposed
to be left behind in the race of improvement by
their Eastern sisters.  They feel the importance
of extending their sphere of labor and of useful-
ness, and of making for themselves room in the
world for the more complete exercise and de-
velopment of all their faculties.  The object of the
"Female Relief Society" is certainly a good one,
and we have no doubt but that the women who
have the work in hand will make it a means of
good not only to those who may receive its help
in time of need, but to themselves also, in the

[Third column]
promption of their own intellectual, social, and
moral improvement.
	A valued lady correspondent of Salt Lake City,
under date of November 13th, 1868, writes as
follows:

		SALT LAKE CITY, 13th November, 1868.
	The laying of the corner-stone of a "Temple
of Commerce," by the Female Relief Society of
the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, took place
yesterday.  The novelty consists in its being a
female enterprise developed under the fostering
care of Bishop R. T. Burton.  A large audience,
composed in part of members of the Society, was
on the ground.  At 2 p.m., after the usual form
on such occasions, the following address was
read by the president, followed by an extempore
speech by E. R. Snow on Woman's Relations to
the Sterner Sex; a speech by Bishop Burton,
commendatory and encouraging, and one by Mrs.
Bathsheba Smith appropriate to the occasion.
						MRS. S. M. K. 
			ADDRESS.
GENTLEMEND AND LADIES:
	"I appear before you on this interesting occasion
in behalf of the Female Relief Society, to express
thanks to Almighty God that the wheels of pro-
gress have been permitted to run until they have
brought us to a more extended field of useful
labor for female minds and hands.
	It will be readily admitted that woman's allotted
sphere of labor is not sufficiently extensive and
varied to enable her to exercise all her God-given
powers and faculties in the manner best calculated
to strengthen, and develop, and perfect her; nor
are her labors made sufficiently remunerative to
insure her that independence essential to true
womanly dignity.
	We realize that unless wisely conducted, our
practical operations may subject us to criticism
and censure.  But the consciousness that our
theory is correct, and our efforts in the direction
of human improvement and universal good, will
strengthen and encourage us, bestowing that
boon--
		"Which nothing earthly gives or can destroy,
		The soul's calm sunshine and the heartfelt joy."
	With feelings of humility and gratitude I stand
upon this consecrated rock, and contemplate the
anticipated result of the completion of this un-
pretending edifice (which I will here call "Our
Store"), the upper story of which will be dedicat-
ed to art and to science; the lower story to com-
merce or trade.  I view this as a stepping-stone
to similar enterprises on a grander scale.
	The object of the building is to enable the mem-
bers of the Society more perfectly to combine their
labor, their means, their tastes, and their talents
for improvement, physically, socially, morally, intel-
ectually, and financially, and for more extended
usefulness.
	Many gentlemen kindly proffer their aid in
forwarding this enterprise.  To them, in behalf
of the cause for which we labor, we extend
heartfelt thanks.
	We feel that our friends who so graciously pat-
ronize us will expect much at our hands.  We
promise you our best endeavors to meet your
highest expectations.  But we ask you merci-
fully to remember that the seat at the merchant's
counting-room table is a new one for us
to occupy, hence, as pioneers for our sex in this
department of female labor in our Territory, we
beg you not to be too severe in your criticisms,
but show your magnanimity by giving us an ap-
proving look and an occasional encouraging word.
With such helps, and the continued blessing of
God, we have all confidence that we shall be en-
abled to extend variously needed relief, and make
our labors a blessing to the cause of humanity."
	[Now this is a bold - may we not say grand? -
movement for the Salt Lake sisterhood.  With
the inevitable franchise, for which women are


asking, nay demanding, these Mormon wives and
mothers will be in the majority, and when they
vote it will fix things just as they please. We are
in favor of the movement. Let the usurping
"lords of creation" make their peace while they
may. Clear the track, for the locomotive is on
its way to Salt Lake City.]


