BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the morning of February the 2nd my
mother gave birth to a son, whom they named
Solomon, after his Grandfather Kimball,
which event is mentioned in my husband's
journals. 
	My room was a few doors from my mother's,
where I was still bed-fast; but the weather be-
ing fine I was conveyed in an easy chair and
placed by her side, where I passed two pleasant
days, being carried back at eventide. She was
in excellent spirits, and before my arrival, the
first morning, had composed several verses on
the birth of this, her seventh son. They
breathed a prayer that his life might be long,
and his wisdom great, like unto Solomon's of
old, before he had allowed the love of women
to surpass the wisdom God had given him.
	She was gifted in that line, had it only been
cultivated in an early day. Her appearance, at
that period of her life, bespoke anything but a
sad and heart-broken woman, though there
were several of father's wives living under the
same roof with her.
	My husband mentions a party coming off on
the 3rd, consisting of President Young's family,
held at the Council House. Father and some
of his family attended. He speaks of the
marriage of Vilate Young and Charles Decker,
on the evening of the 4th.
	On the 5th he wrote: "The party of what
is called the 'Silver Greys,' came off at the
Council House to-day and night, consisting of
all the old people that could be found in camp.
In the forenoon the band went round in a car-
riage playing—the bride and bridegroom ac-
companying."
	"Saturday, the 6th. Beautiful weather.
This evening at eleven o'clock mother gave
birth to a son. She is pretty comfortable; also
Sister Kimball. Helen's health slowly im-
proving."
	"Tuesday, the 9th.	*	*	The Bishop's
convivialties commenced at the Council House
to-day, under the direction of Bishop Whitney
as head bishop of the Church. Attended my-
self with the band and played. The day and

[Column 2]

evening passed off finely, spent in praying,
singing, dancing, etc."
	The same evening he makes mention of my
father's calling his wives together, who had in-
fants, for the purpose of blessing them, which
was done in my mother's room, by B. Young,
father and Bishop Whitney, Dr. Richards act-
ing as clerk. There were seven in number—
four had been born at Nauvoo, one at Richard-
son's Point, Iowa, and two at Winter Quarters.
The eldest was my mother's son, Brigham
Willard, born January 29th 1845. The names
of those mothers were Sarah Peek, Clarrissa
Cutler, Emily Cutler, Sarah Ann Whitney,
Lucy Walker. The two latter were the wives
of the Prophet Joseph, whom father had taken
for time only. Still Joseph Smith of Lamona,
Iowa, declares that polygamy was neither
taught nor practiced by his father, and that it
was "foreign to the Gospel his father died in
the service of," when there are a dozen or
more of his wives still living in Utah, besides
scores of men and women who can testify that
this principle was taught and practiced by him,
and that he commanded others to enter into it.
"None are so blind as those who will not
see." But to return to Winter Quarters.
	"Wednesday, the 10th," wrote Horace,
"the Bishop's party continued on to-day, and
ended this evening at 10 p.m. Father did not
attend much on account of mother's illness,
who is not so well to-day as usual."
	"Thursday, the 11th.	*	*	The
party of 'Silver Greys,' who had not previous-
ly been at the Council House, met there to en-
joy themselves—attended also to-day with
others of the band."
	On the 13th a party was held at the same
place, "consisting of some of the seventies, or
bench makers." The same day he speaks of a
number of brethren starting for Brother La-
throp's camp to guard the horses and cattle,
which had been sent there, intelligence having
been received the day previous, that the "Sioux
had come among the people up there, and
stolen several horses and killed several cattle,
etc., etc."
	"Sunday, the 14th.	*	*	This
morning, at 11 a.m., a meeting of the family
was called at H. C. Kimball's room. Present
—H. C. Kimball, father and a number of both
families. The meeting opened by singing, and
prayer by Brother James Smithies. I arose
and read, by request of Bro. Kimball, a revela-
tion given March 7th, 1831, which was ad-
dressed to the Church, and intended for their
guidance at that, and also at this time. An-
other hymn was then sung, and Brother Kim-
ball arose and said:
	"'I have almost always something in my
mind to say, according to the circumstances
in which I am placed. My health is quite
poor at this time, having taken cold, and have
a severe pain in my side. My body feels as if
it was shattered to pieces with fatigue, but I
care nothing about it—I have no fear of death;
I have no fear about seeing my Heavenly
Father, but I want to live for the good of
this people—life is sweet. Why is it sweet?—
for the sake of good society—the cordial en-
dearments of my friends and children—I can
meet any body half way, for I have so ordered
my life that I am not afraid of death. I am
now forming a character for another world,
when I shall come forth with a new body in
the resurrection; and I want to cultivate the
principles of charity, that I may conform to 
the will of God, that I may be able to have
victory over death, hell and the grave, that I
may be able to say, death, where is thy sting,
O grave, where is thy victory! And when I
gain the victory is not every thing mine? I
want the brethren to exercise all the faith and
calmness in their power—I feel as though I
could hardly sit up. I dreamt the other night
to have my net prepared to catch all I can; and

[Column 3]

every man and woman have nets among you,
each one according to his or her capacity. You
have all got an idea that Christ has gained a
victory for you, but I tell you that you have
got to gain the victory yourselves, or you will
have it to grapple with hereafter. I presume
there is not a person in the room, great or
small, but what think they have as much to 
grapple with every day as I have.
	There have been a great many parties lately,
and I thought I would have one to-day. You
are all my family here to-day—Bishop Whit-
ney belongs to my family, and I belong to his
family, and I want all selfishness banished
from among you. I know there is faith
enough in this place to make me feel happy.
I should not be surprised if I should not live
two months; still I do not know but that I
shall, but there is no one knows how I feel but
myself. I have no testimony that I shall die
for fifty years to come. I want to go to a land
of liberty, where we can be free from mobs
and strife, in which we have been all our
lives. Some profess to have a knowledge of
all things behind the veil, but I profess no
such thing. What is in futurity I neither
know nor care; but I do care for the present,
and that all who look up to me for counsel, as
children, as husbands, etc., should be faithful
I do not say that any of you are disobedient,
but your minds want stirring up by way of re-
membrance—not to tell you what you don't
know, but you are run down like watches I want
you to wind them up two or three times a day.
It does not hurt a watch half as bad to run as
it does to lay dormant, therefore do not let your
minds, like watches, lay dormant. I want you
to lift up your hearts to God for me, and if I
have not done well by my children, I will leave
it to Brother Whitney, as he is a judge in Israel,
and he is such as appointed by the revelations
of God. I want my family to learn to govern
themselves, so that when they are in the midst
of an extreme, even in dancing, they could
stop right straight. You should never let
your appetites control your judgments, but
your judgments your appetites.'"


