MRS. WELDON.

	In presenting our readers with a pen portrait of
this lady, who has been so much before the pub-
lic of late, we may be allowed to express the
opinion that she has shown herself to be possessed
of unquestionable ability, indomitable persevere-
ance, and tireless energy.
	Without entering into questions of a personal
nature, it will, perhaps, be a matter of interest to
our readers to learn that at the outset of her life,
young, beautiful, well-born, accomplished, a
vocalist of unusual excellence, Mrs Weldon was
the object of admiration and adulation of the
society in which she moved “the observed of all
observers.”
	She was, as Miss Treherne, and, subsequently
as Mrs. Weldon, the idol of a circle, including
among its numbers members of the highest rank.
	Wealthy, and without care, she pursued the
career to which ladies of her class are accustomed,
when, in the ninth year of her married life, she
was unexpectedly consulted respecting the musi-
cal education of the daughter of a Welsh coun-
try parson.
	About this time Mrs. Weldon had been fram-
ing a plan for the founding of a school for music,
and although she had never given a singing-lesson
in her life, she commenced to teach Miss Gwen-
doline Jones vocalism. Out of that act sprang
the school established by her at Tavistock House,
Russell-square, London, which for many years
was the residence of the late Charles Dickens,
and carried on for many years.
	We have not space to record the trials, rebuffs,
and we may say afflictions, Mrs. Weldon has
passed through in her attempts to fulfil what she
has conceived to be her mission, nor to recount
the various vicissitudes of her career, but we
may allude to the wonderfnl success with which
she has conducted her various cases, and to the
consummate skill she has displayed throughout,
especially in the attack she has so triumphantly
made upon the present condition of the Lunacy
Laws.
	That the state of our legislation in this respect
cries aloud for improvement, is no new story; but
perhaps, it was never better exemplified than in
the trial in which Mrs. Weldon showed how easy
 it might be, under the existing laws, for a per-
fectly sane person to be put away in a lunatic
asylum.
	The learned Judge complimented the lady on
having brought the matter forward, and it is to be
hoped the outcome may be something really bene-
ficial to the community at large, and which may
put it out of the power of one or two interested
persons to devote a perfectly sane person to a life
which one shudders to contemplate.
	If Mrs. Weldon had done nothing but
this, she would have commanded our admiration,
but she has been very active in many other ways,
and among others, has done her best to advance
the cause of vocal music, as far as lies in her
power, and for this she deserves the thanks of
every amateur, though every one may not agree
with her methods of tuition.
	At present she maybe heard “discoursing sweet
sounds” at the London Pavilion, in Piccadilly,
and it is, perhaps, a good sign of the times when
the surroundings are such that a lady of Mrs.
Weldon’s culture and intelligence does not think
it beneath her to amuse the audience of a Music
