RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	At a meeting of the South Primary Association of
Spanish Fork, a vote was taken and carried unanimously,
that we draft some resolutions of condolence to the


memory of Simeon James, son of Simeon O. Powell and
Edith Cornaby, who departed this life on the 19th of,
May, 1885, at the early age of nine years, eleven months
and twenty-three days.
	The following is a copy of the Resolutions:

	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much beloved brother and co-laborer in our Associa-
tion,
	We, The members of the same, offer our heart-felt sym.
pathies to the bereaved parents, grandparents and friends
of the deceased.
	Although he has been taken from our midst so young,
we feel that he has been taken for a wise purpose, and that
our loss is his gain.
		AGNES R. LEWIS.
In behalf of the Association.

	Whereas, In the divine providence and wisdom of our
Heavenly Father, we have been called to mourn the loss
of our beloved sister, Hannah Jones, who departed this
life May 9th, 1885, after a lingering illness, and
	Whereas, She has been an active teacher in the Relief
Society ever since its organization, and a willing worker at
all times, and devoted to the cause of truth and righteous-
ness, and earnest in helping to move it forward, we feel it
our bounden duty to express our appreciation of her labors,
and to ever hold her memory blessed. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved relatives and friends of the deceased, and pray
that the Heavenly Comforter may enable them to bear this
trial uncomplainingly.

	She has gone from this world of trial and care,
		To dwell with the noble and good;
	Her salvation is certain, for noble her aim,
		And true to her covenant she stood.

	Then grieve not for her, she has gone to her rest,
		The anthems of angels to swell;
	We will think of her kindly, her memory [-]s blest,
		And we know that for her—all is well.
		SUSAN GRANT, President,
		L. D. MUIR, Secretary.
Woods Cross, May 29th, 1885.


