EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	WE are pleased to acknowledge the gift of a 
bouquet of the choicest and most beautiful flowers
imaginable, from the garden of Sister Martha
McKay of this city.  The fragrance was most
delightful, and these emblems of purtiy, con-
stancy and affection are always grateful to a lover
of nature.  Several other gifts of violets,lilacs, etc.,
deserve mention, but we must not forget the large
and lovely bouquet from a little Primary girl in
the Nineteenth Ward.  Many, many thanks.
	MRS. M. I. HORNE, Prest. of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion, wishes to state  the dif-
ferent branch Presidents that have not procured
the new and improved blanks for making out re-
ports, that they can obtain them from her; also
that the semi-annual report will be required for
the Stake Conference in the latter part of July,
and a copy of it will answer for the Relief Society
Conference, which will be held about the middle

[Column 2, article cont.]
﻿or 20th of September.  Therefore, at the June
Conference, only verbal reports will be required.
The next Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held on the 26th and 27th of June.
	THE closing exercises at the University this
year were more than usually interesting.  The
large study room was crowded with students and
visitors.  Prayer was offered by Hon. H.S.Eldredge.
The University singing class, under Prof. E.
Stephens, furnished music for the occasion. Prof.
T. B. Lewis made an eloquent opening address,
and an appropriate and feeling valedictory was
given by Charles England, normal student, from
Hyde Park.  President J. R. Park responded in
a suitable address, and after giving some special
advice to the normal department, presented di-
plomas to the normal graduates, fourteen in num-
ber, from different parts of the Territory.  The
chorus “Good Bye”was rendered by lhe singers,
and Hon. Wm. Jennings, Regent of the institu-
tion, pronounced the benediction. 
	THE annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Nineteenth Ward was held in the
meeting house, on Tuesday last, May 19th, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., Counselor, Miss Ella Nebeker,
presiding in the absence of the President.  Child-
ren sang, “In our lovely Deseret."  Prayer by
Elder E. Beesley.  Singing, “Gather up the sun-
beams.” Minutes read and approved.  Yearly
report read and accepted.  This Primary, has two
manuscript papers, one by the girls and one by
the boys. “The Gem,” No. 1 of Vol 5 was read
by the editor, Miss Dora Bowman.  It contained
original poems, essays, etc., indicating consider-
able talent, and was very well read.  Miss Violet
Nebeker, organist.  The programme was as fol-
lows: Song,Katie and Euphemia Irvine, "Weep-
ing Willow;"  Original Poem, entitled "Presecu-
tion," by Miss Olive Derbidge, read by herself,
was an interesting feature of the programme;
Essay, "The Sabbath Day,"  Master Wm. Neal;
Song, "Mama's Boy and Papa's Man;"  Verses
from the Bible, Master John Pugsley; Song and
accompaniment, Freddie Derbidge, Freddie Ridges
and Alvin Beesley; Song, Amy and Rachel Col-
lett, "Never forget the dear ones around the social
hearth; Song, Julius Billeter and Claude Ridges;
Song, Misses Bertha Irvine, Addie Solomon,
Lydia Kiddle and J. Galligar:  Dialogue, Annie
and Emma Hamlin; Verses from Christ's Sermon
on the Mount, one of the Ridges' boys; Alvin
Beesley and Johnnie Pike,Boat song, with chorus.
This finished the programme, which showed great
improvement in the children, and special training
by the President and her assistants.  Remarks
were made by Sisters E. C. Clawson and E. B.
Wells, also by the president of the Relief Socity,
Sister Rachel Whipple, and her counselors, Sis-
ters Annie E. Neal and Ann Player, also by Sis-
ters C. C. Raleigh, Jane Macduff and Mary
Irvine, and by Elder E. Beesley.  The young
girls who have charge of the Association certain-
ly manage it in a very admirable manner, and are
deserving of great credit. 
	THE annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion at Big Cottonwood, was held at the ward
house on Friday, May 23rd, at eleven a.m., Mrs.
Ellen Sutherland presiding.  Singing, and prayer
by Bro. Mumford.  Singing.  Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved.  There were
about one hundred children present, about equal-
ly divided, boys and girls.  Programme of exer-
cises:	“Somebody’s Mother,” Master John
Quist; Dialogue, eight little girls; a song; Recita-
tion, “Twelve things to be avoided;"  seven girls
and boys reading in concert "Arthur's Prayer;”
Isabel McDonald song, "The Old Hat;"  Song
and chorus by half a dozen girls; Master Mc-
onald, recitation; Valeria Brinton, essay on
“Good Order;” Recitation Elizabeth Andrews,
and some other exercises, all creditably rendered,
completed the programme.  Remarks were made


by Sisters E. C. Clawson, L, A. Wells, Camilla
Cobb, E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells.  Sister
Emily Stevenson was nominated and unanimously
sustained as Assistant Counselor to Sister
Sutherland, and Luella Brinton and Valeria Brin-
ton as Assistant Secretaries.  They were also ad-
dressed by Isabella McGhie and Mary AcAllister,
also by Counselor J. C. Casto, Bro. Worthington,
Supt of the Sunday School, and Bro. Hanson,
Prest. of the Y. M. M. I. A. of that ward. The
benediction was pronounced by Master Francis
McDonald.  The meeting was followed by a 
Childrens' Fair, in an adjoining room, where a 
great variety of articles, made by the little people,
were on exhibition.  There was plain and fancy
sewing in various useful articles, as well as some
ornamental, crochet work. in baskets, tidies, cush-
ions, etc., wool and wax flowers, quilt and rugs,
baskets, and also cooking by the girls- bread,
butter and cakes, all displaying the skill and in-
genuity of these industrious and intelligent small
folks.  The little boys had on exhibition some ar-
ticles in wood work and a specimen of blacksmith-
ing; in all a pretty good showing.  Tables were
set in the hall, and about three hundred, in-
cluding the children, partook of a bounteous re-
past.  Master George McDonald asked the bless-
ing at the table.  The meeting and fair both
passed off satisfactorily, and Sister Sutherland
and her assistants in this good labor must feel
gratified with the degree of success they have 
achieved.

     THE annual meeting of the four districts of Mill
Creek was held on Tuesday, May 26th, commence-
ing at 10 a.m., at the ward meeting house, Mrs.
Mary McAllister, President, second district,
presiding in the forenoon.  After singing, prayer
was offered by Elder Wm. Hill; then singing.
Minutes read and approved.  Programme of
second district.  Questions and answers from the
children in concert; Dialogue, "Put yourself in
my place," by two boys; Recitation, by a young
girl, song by four Misses Bowden, "Then wake
again the songs of old ," very sweetly sung; Reci-
tation; then an essay on "Honesty," Annie
Bowden; very good; Organ Solo, by Luetta Corn-
well, very well rendered; Recitation, by Leslie
Bowden, five years old.  Miss Mary Belle White
was nominated and sustained as Secretary for
conjoint district meetings.  Remarks by Sister
E. C. Clawson, after which there were exercises
from the P. A. of the first district. Recitation,
Blanche Williams, a very little girl; Recitation,
Master John Bolton; Dialogue, by five girls; Reci-
tation, Elizabeth Cook; Recitation, Master Walter
Anderson; Dialogue, two little girls; Recitation,
Master Thomas Gunderson.  Remarks were
made by E. R. S. Smith and Bishop Hamilton.
The children sang the "Word of Wisdom."
Benediction by Bishop James Hamilton.  After-
noon session, at 2 p.m., Mrs. Francis Hanson, of
the third district, presiding.  After singing, prayer
and singing the programme was carried out as
follows:  Recitation, "A Christmas Eve Adven-
ture," by Basha Snedaker; Dialogue, three boys;
Song, two little girls, "I'd be  butterfly," very
beautifully rendered; Recitation, by a very little
girl; Dialogue, four young girls; Recitation, a 
young girl, then a song. after which the pro-
gramme of the fourth district was given, which
consisted of a recitation, by a little girl; Dialogue,
wo little girls; Recitation, a little girl; Song, two
little girls.  This concluded the programme for
 the day, followed by remarks from Sisters E. B.
Wells, L. A. Wells and E. C. Clawson, who gave 
the children two maxims to be remembered and
observed by them-- "Return good for evil," and
"It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong."
Sister E. R. S. S. then made some impressive re-
marks to the children, and Counselor Snedaker
followed with encouraging words.  Mrs. Ann
Morgan was chosen and sustained as Assistant
Counselor to Mrs. Francis Hanson of the third

[column 2]
district. During the day a report was read from
each district, showing the energy and labors of
the Association.  We must not fail to mention
Bro. Nathanial Bowden, who has taken very
great pains to instruct the children in singing, and
they are certainly indebted to him for progress and
harmony in this direction.  Meeting closed by
singing, "We want to see the Temple."  Benedic-
tion by Elder Jens Hansen.


