[THE PEBBLE AND THE ACORN.]

	In looking at the circumstances by which we
are surrounded to-day, I often think of the fable
of the pebble and the acorn, believing there is
quite a similarity in our case at the present time.
	You will remember the eloquent speech of the
pebble, saying, "I am a pebble, but whom art


thou, who comes rattling along from the rustling
bough?" None could tell of his birth, for he was
as old as the big round earth. The acorn, abashed
and mute at this rude rebuff, sank in the dust, and
in quietude lay thinking, of course, what her des-
tiny would be.
	In space of time a tiny sprout shoots forth, and
then a blade appeared, which formed a stem; it
grows to be a sturdy oak, which gives shelter to
the honorable pebble, whose age is so great, and a
kindred also of mother earth.
	After a space of time the tree blooms and bears
fruit; this also drops from its branches, and the
tree is again left bare. Still it thrives and grows
after meeting with such a loss, and shades the
honorable pebble. Time advances, and acorns
appear again; although the bloom is scattered to
the four winds, still the calyx holds the germ, so
that nothing is lost which is of worth to the fruit.
Viewing the subject in this light we see the hand
of an allwise Providence governing all His works,
and we readily understand the meaning of the
revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith,
saying, "The Lord is angry with none, excepting
those who will not acknowledge His hand in all
things."
	Thus we contemplate the designs and purposes
of an allwise Parent, whose decrees are all for the
good of His erring children, and we learn by ex-
perience how just and true He requires us to be.
	When in possession of His Holy Spirit we can
understand how the Lord blesses those who, like
the acorn, are humble and reflect and wait; they
will become acquainted with self and learn their
own abilities, and also learn that they have a des-
tiny to fill, after they learn this lesson perfectly,
which the pebble could never fill, although so hard
and inflexible; and again, the rock can fill a place
while the oak cannot. Why be proud? but remem-
ber that all are to fill their own sphere, as the
Bible teaches. There are vessels of honor and
vessels of dishonor. Let everything have its own
place and all will be useful in our Father's King-
dom.
	One thing is certain, great blessings await the
human family if they will listen and obey the voice
of the good Shepherd, who said to the Jews,
"How oft would I have gathered you together
as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings,
but ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto
you desolate."		M. E. K.
	July 1st, 1885.


