TO THE ILLUSTRIOUS DEPARTED, JUNE 1ST, 1885.

Thou unforgotten one!—the years roll on,
And waves of joy and sorrow beat around,
And still we have God's servants to direct,
To guide, to comfort and uphold the flock—
To steer and pilot thro the breakers strong,
That oft well nigh engulfed the noble ship—
But "Father's at the helm," so all is well.

Thro' all—while reason holds her regal seat,
And memory, as her Premier attends
And waits her bidding—thou wilt be remebered,
The light of other years, the wondrous charm
Of other days, when all was young within
Our souls, thou wert a magnate in the hand
Of God! raised by Him to do His bidding;
Thy name was heard tho' Europe's shrine—
A name made famous by the word sent forth,
That word, God given, made the mystic charm,
The prestige that thy presence threw around
Whatever circle thou didst concentrate.

"List'n," a voice once said, "if I be lifted up
I will draw all men unto me!" 'Twas this
Same voice transmitted thro' the one commissioned,
The "Shepherd's" voice that drew the honest hearts,
The unsophistocate, the innocent and good,
Emitted thro' the voice of BRIGHAM YOUNG!

And thousands flocked to that magnetic voice,
They heard, they listen'd and gladly they obey'd—
The ancient prophecy was realized,
That "in a day a nation should be born!"
As "doves to windows flock" they flock'd to him;
He fed them with the Word, the bread of life,
It knows instinctively the heavenly taste,
And though but a crub be dropp'd it rushes
Forth, o'er leaping all that would its course impede.
To grasp the morsel that will give it life.

The enameled pill that modern shepherds give,
Glossing it over with the name of Christ,
Starves, alas!  e'en while 'tis masticated,
But on the table spread in latter days
The voice of God makes rich the blessed feast,
The bread and wine is consecreated food,
Feeding both soul and body those who eat.

Thy work on earth is done! but all whose eye
Expansive is, can look around and see
Thy foot-prints, the ear of memory recall
Thy voice, the  "eye of mind" can see thy form
Thus, even to us, still sublunary,
Thou art not dead—that word is false.

From out our Lexicon we do eradicate
That word, so false, so meaningless, so sad.
We see thy tomb, but know thou art not there;
Thou, thy immortal self, wert never there;
The vacant niche awaiting thee, is thine,
With Joseph, Hyrum, Heber, and with those
Who, having left the earth, do congregate
In the grand empyrean of God!—
We feel e'en, there, thou dost remember us,
The gathered, the assembled flock of Christ,
Our Shepherd, King, Redeemer, Captain, Lord!

Our enemies to-day are mighty ones—
Through their malignant persecutions.
The dark and poisonous prisons
Hold incarcerate the honest and the good,
God's servants, in whose service youth was spent,
And even up to life's maturer age,
They've "borne the heat and burden of the day;"
The prayers of congregated Saints are heard,
Borne to the throne of grace by those once here;
We feel the electric chain is working still,
And whisp'rings, not of earth, inform our souls
We have a delegation in the court
Above, who know, and can present our case;
And thus, amid the din of persecution,

[Column 2]
Wounded, we are calm, bruis'd, but never broken;
Faithful to our God, our leaders and ourselves.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, June 1st, 1885.


