AUTOBIOGRAPHY
			OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
			Continued.
	On the fourth of July, 1838, the Saints as-
sembled in Far West to celebrate the day, and
I think the spot for the temple was that day
dedicated.  Our national flag, the stars and a
stripes, attached to the liberty-pole, floated 
gaily in the breeze.  All were happy and joy- 
ful, as none but Saints know how to be.
	Shortly after the Fourth a terrible storm
arose; the thunder and lightning were terrific;
the liberty pole was struck and shattered by a
bolt, foreshadowing coming events, as the se-
quel proved.
	Not long after this rumors came to Far
West, from different settlements of the Saints,
of threats, and depredations being committed
by small parties of Missourians.  There was
trouble in Davis County—a battle was fought
on Crooked River, and Brother David Patten,
one of the Twelve, and some others of the
brethren were killed.  Then came the news of
the terrible massacre at Haun’s Mill, and be-
fore we were hardly aware of it a large army
of the mob were marching towards Far West,
with an exterminating order from the Gove-
nor.  The brethren hastily got together wag-
ons, logs, boards, and whatever they could find
that would do, and threw up a breastwork to
protect themselves, in a measure, from the bul-
lets of the murderous mob.  The mob halted
when within about half a mile of Far West.
A white flag was sent out by the mob, and
were met by a party of our brethren, also
carrying a white flag.  The mob demanded
three persons to be brought out of the city,
then their design was to massacre the rest.
	The day following another flag was sent by,
the mob, and some of our brethren met them
and learned that they were commissioned by
the chief executive, and were authorized to
exterminate the Mormons en masse, and they
had three thousand troops under command to
carry these orders into effect.  Col. Hinkle
went out to meet the flag of truce, and secret-
ly made arrangements to deliver up the lead-
ers of the Church to be tried and punished; to
have the property of the Saints delivered over
to the mob to pay their expenses and all dam-
ages done them, and also arranged that the
Saints should leave the state, and their arms
be delivered up to the enemy.
	In the evening of the same day the first step
in this base treachery was taken.  Hinkle re-
presented to the Prophet that the officers of
the militia desired an interview with Him, in
the hope that a settlement might be brought
about without carrying out the Governor’s ex-,
terminating orders.


Brother Joseph and others complied with
the request, and were delivered into the hands
of the mob, as prisoners of war, by the treacher-
ous and cowardly George. M. Hinkle. The
brethren were put into a hollow square and
strongly guarded. The mob then set up a
most horrid, unearthly yell, and one might
well imagine that it came from the throats of
demons of the lower regions. It was a sound
long to be remembered, and one that no person
could desire to hear but once in their lives, es-
pecially under like circumstances.
	On the morning of the 1st of November the
ougle sounded for the brethren to assemble.
Every man went well armed, and was paraded
and delivered over to the mob.
	The brethren were surrounded and required
to surrender their arms, and were guarded all
day, while the soldiers went from house to
house, plundering, pillaging, destroying and
driving, in some instances, women and children
from their homes.
	Before the mob disbanded, after securing
the arms of the brethren, they rode through
the city, and passed so close to our house that
we could hear their remarks.
	A short time after this I was out doors, when
a party of the mob came up with their guns on
their shoulder, almost to our door, and shot a
two year old heifer. I felt no fear; for I had
got pretty well used to seeing mobocrats by
this time, but stood and see them skin and cut
it up and carry  it away.
	A court martial was held by the officers of
the mob and Joseph, and the brethren that
were with him, without having the privilege of
saying a word in their own defense, were sen-
tenced to be shot on Friday morning on the
public square in Far West, in the presence of
their families and friends. At this General
Doniphan objected, saying, he would have
nothing to do with such cold-blooded actions,
and he would withdraw his company from the
army. This probably saved the lives of the
prisoners, at that time, as the sentence was
changed, and they were taken to Independence,
Jackson Co.  Fifty-six more of the brethren
were taken prisoners by General Clark, among
whom was my father. They were collected
within a small circle on the public square,
surrounded by a strong guard, and there they
were compelled to sign a deed of trust, which
deed was designed to put their property into
the hands of a committee, to be disposed of to
pay all the debts which had been contracted
by any, and all that belonged to the Church.
Also to pay all damages the mob might have
sustained from any person whatever. And all
those who denied the faith were exonerated
from signing this deed of trust. They were
then marched and confined in Burk's tavern,
in Far West, Nov., 1838.
	General Clark came in and said to the
brethren there, that they were guilty of all
manner of crimes, and although they might
not be more guilty than others who were not
taken prisoners, yet he intended to make an
example of them. The nature and enormity
of their crimes were such that they were not
fit to live among a moral people, in moral so-
ciety. Therefore they should not be allowed
to live in the state; that it was a part of the
treaty made by General Lucas, that the Mor-
mons should leave the state and that was the
Governor's orders also. He said he would
permit them to stay until the weather became
warm, and if they were not off then he would
pledge himself that he would drive them out
of the state; and if he had to come again he
would show them no quarter.
	They were then driven to Richmond, Ray
Co., Missouri, like so many dumb animals, and
confined in Richmond jail. The weather was
cold, the ground was covered with mud and
slush, and when they camped for the night
they lay upon the ground, and some were
without a blanket to wrap around them to
protect them from the cold and frost. But I
will let my father tell his treatment at that
time, while a prisoner, in his own words, as he
wrote them in the form of a prayer.


