ODE TO JUNE.
O gentle, tender, rosy, blushing June,
	How fair thou art, how beautiful and bright,
And sweet the music of that wondrous tune
	That nature sings for thee both day and night— 
Sings ere the morning dawn lights up the day,
	When the lone-star its faithful vigil keeps:
And on, and on, through early morning grey
	While the tired world in peaceful silence sleeps.
Then, when the sun in splendor doth appear,.
	And golden light with blue and purple blends,
Myriads of birds in chorus, sweet and clear,
	Join nature’s anthem, which to heaven ascends;
And o’er the valleys fair, and on the heights;
	Where foot of man, perchance, has never trod,
There rests a glory; that the sunshine lights,
	Bearing the impress of the works of God.

Flow’rs of the garden, and of wood and field,
	Burst into beauty in their bright array,
A silent power o’er human hearts they wield,
	And light with joy the dark and lonely way.
Roses of June, a charm within them dwells,
	To shed their fragrance over all the land,
And this alone a subtle story tells,
	If we the mystery could understand.

O halcyon time, when June aud roses sweet
	Gladden the world for those who nature love,
For then her beauty seemeth most complete;
	The earth is fair, and heaven smiles above.
And all day long the zephyrs waft perfume
	Grateful as echoes of an old-time song;
While flowers of every kind spring into bloom,
	And birds and brooks sweet melody prolong.
E’en lovers voices; soft and low, are heard
	With all the tenderness and grace of youth,
Pouring forth rapture in each whisper’d word.
	Pledging their vows of constancy and truth.
These are the tributes of thy sunny hours,
	Yea, hearts made glad with all thy loveliness,
Birds, brooks and sunshine, tender words and flow’rs,
	Add much of joy to human happiness.
Not these alone, for in our hearts of hearts
	The June of love and faith and trust we keep,
Which confidence and hope in God imparts-
	A living fountain, pure and clear and deep.

As June's sweet harmonies our pulses thrill,
	And all our souls respond with freshness new,
So shall we to diviner music still,
	Pour forth those symphonies to nature true,
And though dark shadows cross  onward way,
	Or winter winds blow fierce and wild and strong,
That heav'nly music nature sings to-day
	Will lift our souls to God in rapturous song,

O joyful June! twin-sister thou of Jove,
	From realms enchanted comest thou each year,
O'er all the earth in sportive grace to rove,
	Waving thy fairy wand both far and near,
With which thon turnest one more golden page
	In the great volume of increasing years,
Wherein the history of every age,
	Since time began, till time shall cease, appears.

O June of life, and tenderness of you,
	What guerdon leavest thou of pleasant hours,
What precious treasures, or what gems of truth
	Are garner'd in the hearts of those rare flow'rs
Of love and friendship, that once bloomed for thee-
	Say, didst thou cherish for the coming time,
In hope and faith and loving constancy,
	These sacred flow'rs so heav'nly and sublime?
	June 25, 1885.						EMILE.


