A FEW FACTS.

	Every few days some one or two or more of the
brethren, men of position in the Church, are ar-
rested and brought before the United States Com-
missioner and bound over to appear at the next 
term of court, and in many instances whole fami-
lies are called up and questioned, and also placed
under bonds to appear as witnesses when the case
shall come up for hearing. This has been going
on for several months, and, during that time, some
have been tried by the courts, and sentenced, and
are suffering the penalty of imprisonment for
keeping a law which Congress has made a crime,
but neither the motive or the spirit which actuated
the person, can by any means be interpreted as 
evil, nor can the actual facts be considered sinful,
except under the proscriptive law made specially
for this people. Angus M. Cannon, President of this
Stake of Zion,Elders R. Clawson, A. M. Musser, J.
Watson, P. P. Pratt and Evans have all been tried
and sent to the Penitentiary from Salt Lake, and
from Ogden, F. A. Brown, Moroni Brown and
Job Pingree; each of these for living with and ac-
knowledging the wives given them in the holy
covenant of celestial marriage, solomnized by
men holding the authority to perform the cere-
mony.
	These men have all been exemplary in their
lives, and naught can be brought,against them as
honest and true men, only this, that believing im-
plicitly that God had commanded them, they have
obeyed this higher law, a law too high for the
comprehension of men, who are seeking only the
pleasures and riches of this world, or that which is
temporal. Indeed it cannot be expected that they
will understand in their present condition.
	We were very forcibly struck by the ruling of 
Judge Powers in the case of Job Pingree. These
are the men who talk so much of free agency and
liberty, and it would seem he tried to coerce Bro.
Pingree into saying he would not do certain things,
or actually force him to say he would give up a 
wife, or wives, with whom he had made the most
solemn covenants before God and angels that a
man can make. One cannot help thinking it were
better to die in prison than deny a principle he
knows to be from God. And all good men and
women, everywhere, will respect a man more who
will stand by his colors in the hour of peril, even
though it cost him his life, than one who could be
pursuaded to renounce a principle because he was
brought to a severe test. Surely the religion of
the Latter-day Saints is as good as that for which
the Saints of God in other ages have suffered and
died, and let it not be said of any Latter-day Saint
that he has not the courage of his convictions.
	The statements made in the court in the First
District by F. A. Brown and Moroni Brown of
Ogden must make an impression upon every
houest man and woman who will read them. Such
powerful testimonies cannot fail to have a potent
effect upon the young and lead them to reflect up-
on the principle and its practice, and upon the sa-
cred obligations of those who have embraced it,

[Column 2]

the purity of their motives, and the high and holy
aspirations that have influenced them to practi-
cally incorporate it in their lives. This persecu-
tion will arouse earnest thoughts and feelings in
regard to Mormonism at home and abroad, and
will create investigation and research into facts
and figures, that will increase the faith and
strength and courage of those who have been
born "Mormons," but thought little about it, and
among the honest everywhere, will produce a feel-
ing of sympathy and interest for those who are
persecuted on account of religious belief and
practice, but who are honest, upright, thrifty, in-
dustrious, temperate and God-fearing.
	Not only have men been immured in prisons,but
women also have had to suffer penalties for not
answering questions that were inconsistent and
improper to say the least. Our readers will re-
member the cases of Annie Gallifant,Belle Harris
and baby and of Nellie White. The more recent
cases were Lydia Spencer, Elizabeth Ann Starkey
and Lucy Devereux and baby. These women have
put themselves on record as true Latter-day Saints,
who knew for themselves what was right, and
were determined to remain steadfast to principle,
even though sent up for contempt. In view of
these facts we cannot but repeat what we have
often said before that women are as willing to
suffer for a principle as men are, and that true
women will maintain their integrity to the Gospel
and its principles,in spite of persuasion, opposition
and threats.


