		IMPROMPTU.

	On meeting Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood.

Hail lady! friend of human kind.
We greet you, heart and soul and mind!
We lay bright tributes at your feet—
Your advent here we warmly greet.

Lady, accept our hand and heart,
Your name to us doth love impart;
Friend of the oppress'd—we deem you one—
Then welcome to our mountain home.

Mrs. Lula Greene Richards read,
		A WELCOME.
To Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, on her visiting Salt Lake
City. Written in behalf of the
Ladies of Utah.

Not to a princess born, yet stranger guest,
	Could we a welcome so sincere extend,
As unto thee, thou champion of the oppress'd—
	We warmly greet thee as a kind, brave friend.

We've given hospitality to some
	Who smiled upon us, and they turned away,
And, when they might speak well of us, are dumb,
	But evil things they find enough to say.

Yet we've no fear of this in greeting you,
	And wish your stay with us might be prolonged;
For you have said good things, when you but knew
	We were a people vilified and wronged.

We're grateful that you come to us and pause,
	That we may hear your voice and see your face,
And tell you, that when you have plead our cause,
	We've blest your name before the throne of grace.

This fact may seem to you but little weight,
	Your inner soul it may, or may not touch;
But to th' true "Mormon" woman it is great,
	No worldy compensation counts so mnch.

And though, to-day, it seems that “Mormon.” prayer
	And faith holds naught in this world's large events,
They gain us grace to bear and to forebear,
	And help us to proceed with calm, cool sense.

Our God is with us; and, dear lady, know
	That in our heart-felt welcoming to you,
Whatever honor we can hope to show, 
	Whatever good we may delight to do,

[Column 2]
This prayer is best—God bless and make you wise,
	The truth, the right, the worthy to defend;
Your great reward be that which never dies,
	Of all things good; thrice welcome, brave, kind friend.

	Mrs. Lockwood replied briefly to the cordial
welcome extended to her, and said she had simply
done her duty in speaking in defense of the women
of Utah. Brief speeches of welcome were made
by Mrs. Phebe W. Woodruff, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee and Mrs. M. I. Horne; also by A.
Miner Esq., after which the conversation was
general, and an hour or two was spent very pleas-
antly.
	In the evening Mrs. Lockwood appeared on the
platform of the theatre, and was introduced to the
audience by the Hon. John T. Caine with a few
appropriate words, announcing, among other
notable events in her life, that she was the only
woman who had ever been nominated for Presi-
dent of the United States. The subject of her
lecture was, “Social and Political Life in Washing-
ton,” and it was given to an appreciative audience,
almost entirely “Mormon.” Without exception it
was the finest lecture we have ever heard given by
a woman. She seemed to have touched, in writing
it, every point pertaining to her subject, and made
each one effective.
	On Tuesday she went to Provo, where she
lectured in the evening. The following day to
Ogden, speaking there to a full house, and on
Thursday to Logan, returning to this city on Fri-
day, and spoke again in the theatre. Her lecture
was entitled, “Women of To-day,” which she
handled in a very able and interesting manner.
After the lecture was over, Hon. John T. Caine
announced that all who wished to be introduced to
Mrs. Lockwood might have that pleasure by com-
ing forward to the platform; quite a number of
ladies and gentlemen availed themselves of the
opportunity, and were presented to her by Mr.
Caine, who did the honors of the occasion very
handsomely. On Saturday morning Mrs. Lock-
wood left Salt Lake City for Evanston, where she
was expected to speak the same evening.
	We sincerely regret that Mrs. Lockwood had
not the time to remain here long enough to see and
hear a little more of the social and political life of
Utah and the “Mormons,” but she may come
again. As it is she has received favorable impres-
sions, and has been entertained by those who
would spare no pains to make her visit a pleasant
and agreeable one. In this city she was the
honored guest of F. S. Richards Esq., and of
Hon. John T. Caine. At Provo she was the guest
of Hon. W. N. Dusenberry, and in Ogden of
Apostle F. D. Richards, and in Logan she was
entertained at the home of Apostle Moses
Thatcher. 
	Of Mrs. Lockwood it may well be said she is a
woman among women; she is remarkable in many
respects. She is an indefatigable and untiring
worker for the elevation of her sex, and the good
of humanity.
	Mrs. Lockwood is famous enough to have drawn
a much larger audience, and certainly the young
ladies should have come out to see and hear her.
It is not only a mistake on their part, but they
have missed hearing a very distinguished woman
speak. Should Mrs. Lockwood ever visit Salt
Lake again, we hope she may have the house well
filled with young people. They are the ones who
ought certainly to have heard her.


