		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society of this Stake of Zion held
a quarterly conference in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly rooms on Friday, June 26th, commence-
ing at 10 a. m., and 2 p. m., Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding. A synopsis of proceedings will be
given in our next issue. Saturday June 27, the
Primary Conference of this stake was held in the
Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 a. m., Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Reports were re-
ceived from nearly all the wards in the stake, in-
terspersed with songs and recitations from the
several Associations. In the afternoon at 2 p. m.
the Y. L. M. I. A. of this stake, held conference
in the Assembly Hall, Miss Nellie Colebrook,
presiding.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society of the
16th Ward of this city, was held in the ward
meeting house in Monday, June 22nd, commence-

[Column 2]
ing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Diana Reid presiding. The
Bishop and his Counselors were present. After
the usual opening exercises, the minutes and re-
port were read, which were very satisfactory,
and the meeting was addressed by Sisters E.
Howard, E. B. Wells, B. W. Smith and M. I.
Horne. President Reid made a few closing re-
marks, and the meeting was dismissed with prayer
by the Bishop. A bounteous repast had been
prepared by the members of the Society, and
tables were spread in the hall, very handsomely
ornamented with a variety of flowers and
most delicious fruits of the season, at
which the guests were seated and waited
upon by the officers of the Society,and some of the
young ladies of the ward.
	THE first annual meeting of the Relief Society of
Granger, was held on Monday the 15th of June,
1885, at the school house, at 2 p. m.,Mrs Mary E.
Porter presiding. After singing, prayer was
offered by Bishop Dan McRae, and after singing
again, minutes of the organization were read and
a yearly report, which showed that the sisters had
been diligent and faithful in the discharge of their
several duties. The meeting was addressed by
Sisters B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells and E. H.
Woodmansee of Salt Lake City, and by Elder
Geo. B. Wallace, Bishop D. McRae and Presi-
dent Porter. A very good spirit prevailed in the
meeting, and the Bishop expressed his approval
of the sisters’ labors, and stated it was his inten-
tions, sometime in the near future, to have a
Young Ladies Association and a Primary organ-
ized. The benediction was pronounced by Coun-
selor A. Sorenson. The Sisters from the city
the Bishop and wife, Elder Geo. B. Walace
and wife, Elder Park and wife, dined at the
residence of M. B. Porter, and feasted upon
strawberries, and after the close of the meeting
partook of delicious ice cream, prepared by Sis-
ter Mary Gerber.
	BY courtesy of Mr. James Dwyer, we have re-
ceived the new work just recently issued, entitled
“The Fall of the Great Republic.” It is by Sir
Henry Standish Coverdale, and is indeed quite a
remarkable book. It is written in a very novel way,
and the most dreadful calamities are portrayed in
a literary style, calculated to hold the attention,
though one likes not the subject. It is very unlike
any other book we have ever seen. The author
evidently believes what he writes, and is thorough-
ly in earnest, though he tells things in his own pe-
culiar style. He begins with 1895, as though the
world had gone through all the important changes
which are afterwards graphically described. Se-
cret organizations, from dissatisfied conditions,
brought about through the conflict between capital
and labor, the hatred of the rich by the working
people, these and similar causes, growing and as-
summing an alarming phase, culminate in outbreak
and lawlessness, until there is a general outbreak
in the United States, commencing, according to
his prediction, in Chicago, on the 19th of April,
1887, when he describes a horrible carnival of
blood, rapine and incendiarism, which he further
depicts in detail. The book, in many points, is
similar to the prophecies of Joseph Smith the
Prophet; at any rate there is no doubt in the mind
of every true Latter-day Saint, that the troubles
are already beginning to develop that will bring
about alarming and terrifying consequences, that
will end in a most serious struggle, previous to the 
time of Christ’s coming to reign a thousand years
in the millennium of peace. The book is for sale
at James Dwyer’s, Main Street, price, 35 cents,
and will be mailed to any address, postage paid,
on receipt of price, either in cash or two cent
stamps. The book is worth a thorough perusal.
	ON Tuesday, June 30th, a social party convened,
by invitation of Sister Marinda Hyde, at the resi-
dence of her son, Alonzo, to celebrate the seven-
tieth anniversary of the birth of this most esti-


mable and venerable lady. Her birthday, how-
ever, occurred on Sunday, the 28th of June.
There was a delicious repast set for the ladies, at
six p.m., with delicacies to satisfy an Epicurean,
and the tables were handsomely ornamented with
flowers. After supper the ladies indulged in a
little speech making in honor of the happy occas-
ion, and to express the sentiments of love and
admiration they felt for this honored mother in
Israel. Sister Phebe Woodruff made the open-
ing speech, and was followed by Sisters H. T.
King, C. Horrocks, M. I. Horne and S. M. Kim-
ball. Sisters Hyde then made a few remarks in
response to the good feelings of the sisters, fol-
lowed by Sister Riter, B W. Smith, Julia Pack,
Sisters E. B. Wells, E. Howard and Julia C.
Howe. It was a pleasant and happy gathering of
congenial friends and acquaintances. Among the
guests assembled were Sisters Laura Miner and
Emily Chase, married daughters of Sister Hyde,
Sisters E. S. Taylor, R. M. Carrington, S.
A. Reese, Helen Mar Whitney, Lizzie R. Young,
Rachel R. Grant, Annie Ivins, Sister Adams
and several other dear friends and relatives. Sis-
ter Hyde was baptized into the Church in April,
1831, in Kirtland, where her father resided. She
is one of the Johnson family,notable in the early
history of the Church, and is also the widow of
the late Apostle Orson Hyde. Sister Hyde has
ever been known for good works, her labors of
love, her sweet charity and wise counsel to the
daughters of Zion. May she live to see as many
happy returns of the day as her heart desires. Her
posterity already number over forty, among them
eight great grandchildren.
	THE Lecture on Education given before the
Teacher’s Institute in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, by Bishop O. F. Whitney, on
Friday evening, June 9th, was a finished and pol-
ished work of its kind. It is decidedly the best lec-
ture on that subject given by any one of the young
people born and reared in Utah. It contains
much food for thought, as well as excellent mate-
rial to put in practise in our every day life. The
speaker’s enunciation was clear and distinct,
his voice well modulated, which adds much to the
interest of the listener, and his manner was with-
al well adapted to his subject, and pleasing to the
audience. He summed up a perfect education as
a full and uniform development of the mental,
the physical, the moral and the spiritual capabili-
ties of the faculties and powers given to man
and woman. He pointed out, and illustrated
clearly, the mistake made, the educating of the
mind to the neglect of the body, and made a
quotation from Byron, which is beautifully adapt-
ed to the illustration. He reasoned well and
eloquently upon the strong point the infidels
claim to make that religion and science are in
conflict, and brought powerful testimony to prove
that science and true religion could not be an-
tagonistic. It is a very great pity that the lecture
was not given in the theatre, or some large build-
ing, and well advertised beforehand, so that very
many more might have had the opportunity of
hearing him. It has, however, been published
in full in the Deseret News, and it should be read
by all those interested in the education and culti-
vation of the young. Although hearing and
reading are very different in effect, upon the mind
and character. To hear a lecture delivered with
the power, force and earnestness of the speaker
makes a far deeper and more lasting impression
upon most minds than to read it. Mr. Whitney’s
lecture would certainly bear reading carefully
after hearing it delivered.


