OLD FOLKS’ EXCURSION.

	It is now ten years since the first excursion of
the old people, on May 14th, 1875.  Each time it
has been a success, giving much happiness to
those whose life is necessarily more or less mo-
notonous.  It was a happy idea--the suggestion
of Brother C. R. Savage--to give the aged this
annual treat, and must afford considerable satis-
faction to those who first engaged in the affair, to
know how popular these excursions have become,
and how much the old people have enjoyed these
delelightful “outs.”
	Those who have contributed of their means to
help the committee make the excursions in every
way successful, will certainly feel doubly blest, and
more than repaid in the genuine enjoyment of
those who are decending the down hill of life.
	On Tuesday, June 23rd, by invitation of the
committee, we had the pleasure of joining the
party of veterans, who went by the Utah and Ne-
vada Railway to Garfield to spend the day.  There
were about 600 persons over seventy years of age,
and quite a number of others, making in all about
900.  The Sixth Ward silver band played some
good music at the depot as the train started.
The morning was delightfully cool after the re-
freshing shower on Monday, and the train arrived,
after about an hour's ride, at Garfield Station,
where tables and seats had been prepared under
the bowery to accomodate the party.  The Old
Folks' choir, led by W. H. Foster, sang some
pleasing songs, and Brother Dunbar played sever-
al tunes upon the bagpipes, which gave variety to
the enjoyment.
	There was much social conversation, and the
meeting of old friends and shaking hands was in
itself a great pleasure.  The picnic seemed very
plentiful; indeed all seemed not only to have an
abundance, but a variety, and cold and hot water,
tea and coffee were furnished by the committee, 
who spared no pains to make all the party feel at
home, and enjoy themselves.
	Some indulged in the luxury of a bath in the
salt water, but everybody seemed to participate in
the general good feeling that prevailed through-
out the entire day.
	About 11 o’clock the train from Tooele County
arrived with two hundred more, and carriages
and wagons brought about 400, mostly from
Tooele and Grantsville.  They came supplied
with everything good to entertain their party, and
plenty to spare; also some very beautiful flowers,
strawberries and cherries, which gave their tables
a handsome appearance, and were very inviting.
	At .2 p.m. the committee had all arranged to
open the meeting.  A few very old people were
seated on the stand; the oldest person was Mary
Bishop, from Manchester, England, who will be
ninety-nine on the 4th of September next.. The
next oldest was James Berghon, English, who will
be ninety-three on the 18th of next September.
The choir sang "Sweet By and Bye," and prayer
was offered by Elder George Goddard, after
which "Fleeting Years" was very sweetly ren-
dered by the choir.
	By this time the special train, which brought
the Presiding Bishop and his Counselors, had ar-
rived, and when the Bishops were seated upon
the stand, Brother Goddard, of the Old Folks
Committee, moved that Bishop W. B. Preston
succeed the late Bishop E. Hunter as chairman of
said committee.  The motion was seconded and
carried unanimously.
	Then came the distribution of prizes, which is
always  exciting time, and immensely interest-
ing.  Those over ninety, who wore white ribbon
bows, were served first, and of course received
the best; after that, the two oldest people from
Tooele and Grantsville; and we much not forget
to state that the brass band from Grantsville came
in their handsome uniform and furnished excellent
music for the day.  Mr. Radcliffe, the leader of
the band, was given a fine centennial watch, for
the musical services rendered the old folks.
Next, prizes were given to all those present who
had pulled handcarts across the plains; then to
the man who had the greatest number of living
children, and to the lady who had been longest a
widow; to Bishop Alexander McRae, who had
been in prison with the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Liberty Jail, Mo.; to Gretha Anderson, who had
walked the entire distance across the plains; to
the oldest man and woman from the Sandwich
Islands, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, France,
Germany, Switzerland, Australia and Canada; to
Brother and Sister Ringwood of this city, who
have lived together fifty-nine years; to the hand-
somest man over eighty, the prize being awarded
to Brother Lewis of this city, the old ladies ren-
dering the decision.  Prizes to all the blind; to
several women over seventy, who go out washing;
to the oldest bachelor and old maid present; to
Sister Booth of India, who resides in Beaver, and
who was not present. 
	The prizes consisted of rocking chairs, a trunk, 
hats, caps, bonnets, shoes, stockings, socks, dress
patterns, parasols, canes, tea coffee, wine, china
and glass sets, copper tea kettle, metal tea pots,
etc., etc.  Most of them were handsome and dur-
able articles.
	After the prizes were distributed, the old peo-
ple were treated to cakes, candy, oranges and
lemonade.
	At seven o'clock the party were all on board the
train, homeward bound, and all feeling happy and
joyful for the good time they had enjoyed together
during the day.  It was an interesting sight to see
so many of the aged, and to think that the Gospel
had brought most of them together, here in this
far off western land, and to contemplate the varie-
ty of experiences through which each one of these
had passed.
	God bless the old folks, and all those who
honor them and contribute to their welfare and
happiness.


[Column 1]
