OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.

	Oh, Lord look down in mercy upon Thy
people who are afflicted and oppressed.
	How long, O Lord, wilt Thou suffer the
enemy to oppress Thy Saints. Destruction
hath come upon us like a whirlwind, in the
which Thou hast verified thy words, for Thou
didst forewarn us that it should come, and be-
hold, Thy word is fulfilled. The enemy came
upon us to drive us from the State of Missouri,
or exterminate us. But Thou, O Lord, did
stay their hands from killing us, though num-
bers were massacred; and Thou didst send forth
uncommon severe frost and snow, and by that
means save us, as a people, from being driven
out at the time appointed. But Thou didst
suffer the enemy, unlawfully, to take Thy ser-
vant, together with scores of others, who drove
us like dumb asses from our homes, in a cold,
dreary and melancholy time. We were con-
fined in a large, open room, where the cold
northern blast penetrated freely. Our fires
were small, and our allowance for wood and
food scanty. They gave us not even a
blanket to lie upon. Our beds were the cold
floor.
	There, Thou didst suffer the wicked to tyran-
ize over us; yea, the vilest of the vile did
guard us and treat us like dogs; yet we bore
our oppressions without murmuring; but our
souls were vexed both night and day with
their filthy conversation, for they constantly
blasphemed Thy holy name.
	How long. O Lord, wilt Thou suffer them to
blaspheme Thy name? Wilt Thou not soon
cut them off and consign them their portion
among hypocrites and unbelievers? In the
midst of our oppressions we did call upon Thy
name, O Lord, and Thou didst hear us, and
deliver us in some degree from the hand of
oppression, yet the enemy doth still threaten
us and would fain destroy us from the face of
the earth, but we are in Thy hands, O Lord,
and we know that the enemy can go no farther
in oppressing us than Thou dost permit. O
Lord, deliver Thou us from our oppressors.
Send Thy judgments and destroy those who are
not willing to let Thy Saints have a resting
place upon Thy footstool. Save Thy people,
O Lord, save Thy people from oppression and
bondage, yea, redeem Thy Zion; in Thine own
time redeem it.
	How long, O Lord, shall the enemy be per-
mitted to wear out Thy Saints? Hasten, O
hasten the day when the Ancient of Days shall
sit, and power be given Thy Saints to take and
possess the kingdom, even forever and ever.
Amen.	[Signed]
		E. PARTRIDGE.
	Far West, Caldwell Co., Mo., Jan., 1839.

	The brethren were prohibited, by the mob,
from going out, or coming into the city, but
many of the families living out had gathered

[Column 2]

in for protection, which caused provisions to be
very scarce, and much suffering ensued. The
mob had taken cattle, pigs, poultry, and what-
ever they wanted for their army to eat while
they were camped outside of the city, for all
know that even a mob must eat to live, if they
have to rob women and children of their last
morsel to do it. I know how it was in our
family—mother had to boil wheat to eke out
the little corn meal that we had; flour we had
none, and I remember seeing her make some
pumpkin pies, using corn meal for the crust; I
suppose she thought the corn dodger and
pumpkin sauce would taste better to the child-
ren if it was made in the shape of, and called
a pie. Some were worse off than we were, for
they had nothing but parched corn to eat.
Well, these were some of the mobocratic days
of my childhood.
	Father was released from prison and returned
to Far West, but in consequence of trouble
being brought upon him by apostate brethren,
he was compelled to again flee from his family
and home. Mother, soon after, put what she
could of her effects into a wagon and, with
her family, started for—well, anywhere out of
the State of Missouri.
	We were set down on the banks of the
Mississippi River, opposite Quincy, and were
again houseless and homeless, wandering in the
cold and bleak winter weather, with scanty
food and clothing. We pitched our tents and
waited for an opportunity to cross the river.
There were several families of Saints there
when we arrived, and they were continually
coming, so the bank of the river was dotted
with tents, now the only home of the again
exiled Saints. The wagons bringing families
were unloaded and taken back for more of the
Saints. When we crossed the river it was
partly on the ice and partly in the ferry boat.
The shore on the Quincy side of the river was
lined with the inhabitants of that place, to
witness the crossing over of the Mormon out-
casts—even the exiled Saints in midwinter.
Perhaps many thought they were a strange
people, or some kind of animals; not human
beings like themselves, subject to sorrow and
pain, cold and hunger and distress.
	In all our wanderings and being driven, we
have had to go out in the cold winter months,
and the suffering of the people must have been
very great. Children could not sense the awful
reality of the situation as older ones did, on
whose shoulders the burden rested. I some-
times look back upon those scenes with horror,
and wonder how the Saints did continue to en-
dure, time after time, such heartless cruelties.
But many could not endure, and so found an
early grave.
	And now, in 1885, nearly all of the Saints
that were living then have passed away, and
the few that are living now are those that were
children then, and they are becoming ad-
vanced in years, and it will not be very long
and there will be none left living upon the
earth to bear witness against the horrid deeds
of the Missouri mob. But the record of their
wicked deeds will remain and condemn them;
they will yet have to foot the bill with inter-
est.
	After crossing the river, mother rented a
room in Quincy, and here father met us. We
remained but a short time in Quincy. Father
moved his family to Pittsfield, Pike County,
Illinois, where we remained until a place for
the gathering of the Saints was appointed, when
we moved to Commerce, afterwards Nauvoo.
Father secured a city lot, and pitched his tent
under a large elm tree.
	The place was very unhealthy, and nearly
everybody there was sick; so much so that it
was hard to find well ones enough to care for
the sick, or bury the dead. As we had not
been there long enough to be affected by the
climate, father sent his girls, that were old

[Column 3]

enough, among the sick to help take care of
them. I was at Bro. Ebenezer Robinson's; he
and his wife were both sick. I staid as long
as I could keep up. I went home sick, took
my bed, from which I was unable to rise for
several weeks. My sister Harriet preceeded
me home, and was occupying one side of the
bed, very sick. We lay in this condition until
one day Brothers Young and Kimball called
at our tent; they were just starting on a mission,
and they administered to us, when the fever
broke, and we were much better, but we did
not get our strength.
	After a few weeks, being neither sick nor
yet well, we were taken down with the shaking
ague, which continued with us, off and on, for
one year or more. As the tent was an uncom-
fortable place for sick folks, father rented a
room, in what was called the "upper store
house," built at the steam-boat landing, before
the Saints began to settle there. Several fami-
lies occupied other portions of the house. Bro.
Hyrum Smith's family had a room adjoining
ours.
	Father had the chills and fever, but he felt
so anxious to build a house for his family,
which had to be done mostly by his own labor,
that he felt he could hardly spare time to be
sick, so he would take quinine and break up
the chills for a week or two, so that he could
labor on his house; and when the chills re-
turned he would take more quinine and go to
work again; but he saw that it would take a
long time at this rate to get into his house, so
he concluded to build a stable for his cows and
move his family into that; but moving was the
last thing he ever did in this life. He died on
the 27th of May, 1840, in his forty-seventh
year. My sister Harriet died a few days be-
fore, in the store house, on the 16th of May,
1840, in her nineteenth year.
	I will here mention the kindness of Brother
and Sister William Law to our family in our
distressed condition. While my father lay
sick, my sister Eliza and I, and some of the
other children were sick also, and it was very
unpleasant for so many sick to be in one small
room. Brother and Sister Law took Eliza
and I home with them and showed us every
kindness. I felt as though I had almost got to
heaven, after all the years of suffering that we
had endured, and now to be in such a good
house, and to have a comfortable bed to lay
upon, with nourishing and palatable food, I
almost thought that it was too pleasant to be
true.
	After father's death Brother Law took our
whole family home and administered to our
wants, and with such good and kind care we
began to improve in health, and when we had
sufficiently regained our health we went back
into our little hut once more.
	When I think of the Laws, and what good
men they seemed to be, and realize the course
they have taken, my soul sorrows and mourns
over their fate. Can it be possible that such
kindness as they extended to my father's family
will be all lost?


“The Woman’s Silk Culture Association now
operates under the patronage of the United
States Government, a trust and honor well be-
stowed.”
  “The New York Press Club gave a recep-
tion to the Hon. H. B. Stanton, husband of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, last week, on the oc-
casion of his eightieth birthday.”
“ ‘Sweet Cicely is a new novel by ‘Josiah
Allen’s Wife’ (Marietta Holly). This is a con-
tinuation of the famous Josiah Allen’s Wife’s
series. A literary gentleman who has carefully
examined the story in manuscript, says: ‘In
my judgment this novel will prove the Uncle
Tom’s Cabin of the temperance reform.’ 12-
mo, cloth, two dollars.”


