R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			  -------
		 EAST HARRISVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   We have been called to part with one of our
young ladies, Sister Emma Taylor, daughter of
P. G. and Jane N. Taylor, who departed this
life on the 22nd of March after an illness of
only two days.  It has cast a gloom over the
ward, but the Lord’s will be done, and not
ours.
	The Relief Society hold their meetings every
two weeks; there is always a goodly number
present. Our worthy President and Counsel-
ors are trying to do the best they can, always
giving good counsel, and we enjoy the Spirit of
the Lord in our meetings to a very great ex-
tent.  Our Bishop, P. G. Taylor meets with us
very often aud gives us good counsel, and en-
courages the sisters in their good works.
	We have on hand, wheat, 275 bushels;
property, $14; cash, $15; cash out on interest,
$150; and have donated to the Ogden Taber-
nacle $14 in cash this year.
	This is my first attempt to address a few lines
to the Exponent. I have taken that valuable
little paper four years.  My husband joins
with me in reading it, and we enjoy it very
much; it reminds us of what our parents have
passed through in days that are past and gone,
as well as the troubles at the present time.
	Ever wishing the Exponent success, I re-
main,	 Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, Prest,
		MARY E. KEYES, Sec.
				--------
	HEBER, LUNA VALLEY, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   As I am a reader of your valuable little
paper, and have seen no communications from
this isolated settlement ,hence the liberty I take
to penning a few lines to you, concerning the
Primary Association, hoping you will give
them space in your paper.
	The Heber Ward Primary Association was
organized October 26th, 1884, by Bishop G.
C. Williams with Virginia Curtis, President;
Eveline Lee and Mary Swapp, Counselors;
Mary Williams, Secretary; Sarah Ellsworth,
Assistant Secretary; George Williams Treas-
urer, and thirty-two members enrolled; they
now number sixty-two.  The little ones have
made great progress in a short time. They
gave an entertainment the first day of May,
which consisted of crowning the May Queen,
songs, recitations, dialogues, etc.  All gave
such satisfaction that we cannot mention names.
In the afternoon the little folks went forth in
a dance and picnic.  All enjoyed themselves—
parents in seeing their little ones have pleasure.
A party was given at night for the adults, the
proceeds to go for the benefit of the Associa-
tion.  So, you see, we are trying to imitate the
settlements of our dearly loved Utah as much
as we can in our feeble way.  The health of
the people, in general, is good.
	Wishing for the success of the Exponent,
and all those who are trying to help forward
the great work, I remain, 
		     One of your sisters,
						      E. V. C.

