R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The ladies regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
May 30th, 1885, Mrs. E. S. Taylor presiding.
Minutes were read from the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
17th Ward.
	Remarks were made by Sister E. S. Taylor on
the spirit and peculiarity of the times, and testi-
monies were borne by Sisters Smith, Green, Dyer,
Watmough and other sisters in the congregation,
and remarks were made by Sisters M. E. Kimball
and Julia C. Howe.
	Counselor B. W. Smith made closing remarks,
in which she gave a sketch of her visit to the
penitentiary, and spoke upon other subjects of in-
terest.  Meeting adjourned.  Singing, Doxology.
Prayer by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Meeting held at the same time and place, Satur-
day, June 13th, Counselor S. M. Kimball presid-
ing.  Mrs. M. A. Wilcox was elected Secretary
pro tem.  Minutes of previous meeting were read,
and also minutes of Y. L. from 20th and 2nd
Wards, and P. A. from 21st Ward.  The meeting,
which was numerously attended, was then ad-
dressed by Sisters M. A. Freeze, L. W. Kimball,
P. W. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Mary Gerber, H. Risley, S. M. Kimball, H, T.
King, E. B. Wells and M. A. E. Watmohgh.
The subjects spoken upon were the signs of the
times, the necessity of being humble, faithful and
prayerful, officiating for the dead in temples, the
present crusade, the Deseret Hospital, the train-
ing of children and some items of business in
relation to the Relief Society.
	A caution was given to the officers of the Re-
lief Society in regard to agents for books and
other things, not to place the Society in any
way under obligations to them, and in purchas-
ing books and other things, or accepting any
agency for these things to take every precaution
to secure themselves against being imposed upon.
	The appointment for the Relief Society Confer-
ence of this Stake of Zion was given out to be 
held on Friday, June 26th, and the Primary June
27th, in the forenoon, at 10 a.m., and Y. L. M. I.
A. at 2 p.m. Singing, "Lord dismiss us," etc.
Prayer by Sister M. W. Wilcox.


[Column 1]
﻿	SKETCH OF THE F. R. SOCIETY.
	The Female Relief Society was organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illi-
nois, March 17th, 1842. Willard Richards and
John Taylor were also present on the occasion, Wil-
lard Richards acting as secretary pro tem.  Here
is a minute from the Prophet’s own history.
	March 17th. “I attended, by request, the F. R.
S., whose object is the relief of the poor, the des-
titute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exer-
cise of all benevolent purposes. Its organization
was completed this day, Mrs. Emma Smith,
President; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland, Counselors; Miss E. R.
Snow, Secretary; Miss Sarah Wheeler, Assistant
Secretary; Miss Elvira Cole, Treasurer. The
brethren then laid their hands on them and or-
dained them to their several offices.”  The
Prophet said, "You are now organized after the
pattern of the Church, and that whenever the
Church of Jesus Christ was fully organized upon
the earth this organization of the sisters existed.”
On another occasion, April 28th, 1842, he says, “I
met the members of the F. R. S.,and after presid-
ing at the admission of many new members, gave
a lecture on the Priesthood, showing how the
sisters would come in possession of the privileges,
gifts and blessings of the Priesthood, and that the
signs should follow them, such as healing the sick,
casting out devils, etc., and that they might attain,
unto these blessings by a virtuous life and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the command-
ments. This is a charitable institution, and ac-
cording to your nature. It is natural for females
to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You
are now placed in a situation where you can act
according to those sympathies God has placed in
your bosoms. If you live up to these privileges
how great and glorious will be your reward in the
celestial kingdom. If you live up to your privi-,
leges the angels cannot be restrained from being
your associates. Females, if they are pure and
innocent, can come into the presence of God, for
what is more pleasing to God than innocene. You
must be innocent or you cannot come up before
Him. If we would come before God we must
Weep ourselves pure as He is pure.”
	He spoke of some little foolish things being
circulated in the Society against some of the sis-
ters not doing right in laying on hands to heal the
sick; said that if the people had common sym-
pathies they would rejoice that the sick could be
healed.
	He continued his subject by quoting the com-
mission, given to the ancient apostles, in Mark
xvi, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gos-
pel to every creature. He that believeth and is
baptised shall be saved; and he that believeth not
shall be damned; and these signs shall follow
them that believe: In my name they shall cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they
shall take up serpents, and if they drink any dead-
ly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay
hands on the sick and they shall recover.”
	"No matter who believeth, these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils etc., should
follow all that believe, whether male or female,
and if the sisters should have faith to heal the
sick, let all hold their tongues.” He further re-
marked that there could be no devil in it if God
gave His sanction by healing, and there could be
no more sin in any female laying hands on and
praying for the sick than in wetting their face with
water.
	This was about two years before his martyrdom,
which sad event took place June 27th, 1844.
	In 1846 the Church left Nauvoo, consequently
the F. R. S. was not in operation until the time
it was reorganized in Salt Lake City by President
Brigham Young. He gave Sister. E. R. Snow a
mission to assist the bishops to organize a F. R.
S. in every ward in the city. Commencing at the
[Coumn 2]
15 Ward, Sarah M Kimball was made President,
with two Counselors, Secretary and Treasurer,
also a visiting committee, who were to go from
house to house to search out the poor and look
after their wants.
	The Society has extended its branches from
ward to ward of the city and from settlement to
settlement in the country, throughout the Terri-
tory, United States,Great Britain, and throughout
the world where there is a branch of the Church.
The funds of the Society are mostly donations.
Many of the branches of the Society have started
industries, from which they realize a moderate in-
come; besides stated business meetings, each
branch has set days on which to work for the
benefit of the poor.
	When the Society commenced its labors in
Salt Lake City the donations consisted of mate-
rial for patchwork quilts,rags for carpets,uncarded
wool, for socks and stockings, etc.  In some in-
stances the hair of animals was cleansed and
carded by hand, of course, as there were no card-
ing machines in the city at that time, spun and
knit into socks and mittens.
	As fast as may be the various branches are
building for themselves places of meeting, work-
shops. etc.  The first of these buildings was
erected in the 15th Ward. They commenced
their labors as above, their first capital stock be-
ng donations of pieces for quilts, carpet rags, etc.
By energy and perseverance they helped to sus-
tain their poor, and in a few years purchased land
and built on it a commodious house.
	The laying of the corner stone was performed
by the sisters, and was followed by appropriate
speech making on the part of the presiding officers
of the Society—Miss S. M. Kimball, Mrs. E. R.
Snow and others, each in their turn mounting the
corner stone for a rostrum, and each winning de-
served applause from the assembled throng.
	After the building was completed it was dedi-
cated by the First Presidency. Sister E. R.
Snow composed a hymn for the occasion. Since
its reorganization here the Relief Society had
gathered and disbursed over $100,000 eight years
ago. Probably this sum has doubled since that
time.
	The Relief Society in the 13th Ward, in which
I live, was organized April 18th, 1868, at the resi-
dence of Bishop E. D. Wooley, who was present
with Counselors Wm. S. Godbe and F. A.
Mitchell. After a few interesting remarks from
the Bishop with regard to the organization and the
duties of its members, he proceeded to set apart
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,as President of the society;
the Bishop himself ordained her to that office.
Mrs. Grant was then requested to choose her
Counselors, when she selected Mrs. Annie T.
Godbe for her First Counselor and Mrs. Margaret
Mitchell for her Second Counselor.  Mrs. Godbe
was ordained by her husband, Counselor Wm. S.
Godbe, and Mrs. Mitchell by her husband, Coun-
selor F.A. Mitchell.  It was then moved that Mrs.
E. H. Goddard act as Secretary, and Mrs. Anna
Musser was chosen as Treasurer. All were re-
ceived by unanimous vote. The following persons
were then appointed as teachers.  Mrs. Clarrissa
Scofield, Rosina Godbe, Martha Wells, Abbie
Rumel, Emily Young, Louisa Spencer, Agnes
Park, Mary Musser, Catherine Horrecks, Martha
Stringam, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe Maiben,
Elizabeth Maiben and Isabella Anderson.
	After a few encouraging and appropriate re-
marks from Sister E. R. Snow the meeting was
adjourned till April 30, 1868, to meet at Mrs.
Mary Godbe’s residence at 2 p.m. Counselor
Wm. S. Godbe acted as Secretary pro tem at the
organization.
	On May 3rd, 1871 Mrs. Mary-Musser was ap-
pointed Treasurer after, the decease of Mrs. Anna
L. Musser, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Assistant Sec-
retary
April, 1869, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was or-


[First column]
dained as First Counselor to Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant, Mrs. Annie T. Godbe having resigned her
position, and in January, 1873, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells was ordained as the Second Counselor in
the Relief Society in place of Mrs. Margaret
Mitchell, who had been called to accompany her
husband on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
Mrs. Relief C. Atwood was appointed Treasurer
in 1876, Mrs. Mary Musser resigning her position
on account of removing out of the ward.
	In Sept., 1883, Mrs. B. W. Smith removed to
another ward, and soon after resigned her posi-
tion as First Counselor to Mrs. R. R. Grant, who
then chose Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells to occupy the
position of First Counselor, and Mrs. Louisa
Spencer to fill the office of the Second Counselor.
	Soon after our settlement in this valley I heard
President Heber C. Kimball say the time would
come when the sisters of this Church would be
organized as well as the brethren.  Before the
decease of President Brigham Young the work of
organizing the branches of the Relief Society in
a Stake capacity, with President, two Counselors,
Secretary and Treasurer, was commenced by him,
﻿and since organizations of the Relief Society have
been made in each Stake of Zion, and when new
Stakes of Zion have been built up this organiza-
tion follows the other as soon as practicable.
	On June 19th, 1880, at a conference of the Re-
lief Society, held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
a central organization was formed, President
John Taylor officiating. He appointed Mrs.
Eliza R. Snow Smith to preside over all the or-
ganizations of the Relief Society in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the
world.  She chose for her Counselors Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
and for Secretary Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and for
Treasurer Mrs. M. Isabella Horne.
	In a meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, July 17th, 1880, President John
Taylor set apart and blessed the officers he had
appointed to preside over the Central Board of
Relief Society, thus effectually completing this
important organization.
	This Society in its several branches is auxil-
eary to the Priesthood in the various wards, and
works in harmony with the Bishops and acting
brethren of the ward.  If all are faithful and
true to their office and calling none of the poor
need suffer or want for the necessary comforts of
life, for the organization of the Church is so com-
plete and perfect in every part.
	We commenced our labors in the Society in the
Thirteenth Ward similar to that of other wards,
making quilts, rag carpets, buckskin gloves and
clothing of different kinds.  With these industries
and other sources, since April 18th, 1868, to
January 28th, 1885, we have gathered and dis-
bursed in our ward, in cash and sundries, $3,880.
30, and if we are all united we will soon have a
place to meet in of our own - a hall suitable for
the purpose.
	As a matter of record I would here state that in
1872, by the suggestion of our President, Eliza
R. Snow, and the approval of President Brigham
Young, the word Female prefixed to the name of
the Society, was dropped.  This was done by
vote in all the several branches of the organiza-
tion.
	In 1870 the Legislature of Utah gave to the
women of this Territory the right of suffrage.
	In 1872 the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was estab-
lished, the need of a woman's paper having been
agitated among the sisters for some time, by
means of which the women of Utah might repre-
sent themselves and tell their own story.  The
first number was issued June 1st, 1872, edited
by Miss Louisa L. Greene.  
	In establishing home industries of a public
character the sisters have labored earnestly and
diligently.  In 1874 the Deseret Silk Association
was organized, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent.

[Second column]
	Millinery stores, straw manufacture and co-op-
erative stores of this kind, and also for fancy arti-
cles, and home-manufactured goods have, from
time to time, been very successfully manipulated
by the sisters of the Relief Society.
	In 1876, at the time of the Centennial Exhibi-
tion in Philadelphia, a Woman's Fair was held in
the Old Constitution Building in this city, over
which Miss Eliza R. Snow presided, having
received an official appointment from the
Centennial Board in Philadelphia.  This fair
gave the women of Utah an excellent opportunity
of displaying their articles of handiwork of all
kinds and sorts imaginable, and it was visited by
thousands of people who called at Salt Lake in
traveling to and from the Centennial, as well as
many from foreign countries, whose route lay
across the continent.
	In October, 1876, President Young called upon
the sisters through the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to
lay up grain against a day of famine, and on the
11th of November following Mrs. E. B. Wells was
chosen President of the Grain Association.  At
the same meeting measures were taken to publish
a book called "The Women of Mormondom."
The Relief Society in the branches throughout
the Stakes of Zion have been engaged from year
to year ever since in the storing of wheat, and
many of them have built store-houses of their own,
in which to preserve it.
	Thousands of bushels have, since that time,
been stored away by the sisters, and they look up-
on it as one of the important missions given them
to perform.
	In May, 1882, the sisters formed an association
for the establishment of a hospital for the sick
and afflicted, and by unanimous vote Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith was chosen President.  The Deseret
Hospital was dedicated July 17th, 1882, President
John Taylor and other leading brethren officiat-
ing.
	The labors of the Women of Zion in an organ-
ized capacity are very effective for good, and are
of great benefit to the people, and here it might
be well also to mention that Young Ladies, Asso-
ciations, for mutual improvement, have been or-
ganized in all the Stakes of Zion in each ward,
commencing in 1867, by the advice and authority
of Brigham Young.  There are also what are
called Primary Associations for the children, un-
der the management of the sisters; these are also
organized in each bishop's ward, and are of great
benefit in teaching and instructing the little ones
in the principles of the Gospel, as well as impart-
ing to them the Spirit of the Lord in their young
and tender years.
	From this brief sketch of the Relief Society
and public labors of the women of the Latter-day
Saints, it is easy to see, judging from the fact that
a wide field of usefulness is open for the next
generation, that great results may be anticipated,
if we are wise, diligent and faithful in the perform-
ance of every duty, and in keeping the command-
ments of God.
						R. C. ATWOOD
[short line break]
	In connection with the article above we pub-
lish the following from the American Phrenologi-
cal Journal, New York issued February 1869.

