	MORMON WOMEN.

	Many of the Mormon women, as well as the
men, are passing through a trying time, and
were it not for their faith in the Gospel, and
its saving principles, it would seem that many
have almost more than they can bear.
	Mormon women, as a rule, (who are blessed
with a husband who is living in the line of his
duty, who is true to his God and his cove-
nans) love their husbands with the purest,
strongest love. Therefore, it would be folly to
think that they can see them forced from their
presence, and from their homes and innocent
children, for a period of months or years,with-
out so much as a chance for a farewell word,
to be locked behind prison bars, at wander as
an exile, encountering all kinds of discom-
forts and dangers, without acute suffering and
anguish? But this is what some of our sisters
have had to endure in the last few months.
Others have had to leave their homes and
friends and seek an asylum among strangers;
some at a time when home comforts were most
needed; in some instances mothers are separa-
ted from their little ones, who sorely need a
mother’s care.
	These are some of the trials inflicted on
these women right at the present time, now, in
the year of 1885; and who is responsible for
these things? Not the men who figured promi-
nently in the mobbing of the Saints, forty or
fifty years ago, in the early rise of the Church,
but those officious officials, who live and flour-

[Column 2]
ish now. Many have wondered how such out-
rages could be perpetrated in the States of
Missouri and Illinois, forty years ago, when lo!
here they are being enacted again right in the
blaze of our advanced civilization and en-
lightenment. Delicate women have been made
to suffer the most exquisite torture of mind.
Some have been incarcerated in prison, and
all for the sake of our religious convictions.
But do we feel to bemoan our fate? Not at
all; we feel to pass through what it is our lot
to suffer with a cheerful spirit, realizing that
though they may destroy the body, they have
no power over the soul, and if they can afford
to inflict this suffering upon us we can certainly
afford to suffer at their hands, for it is very
true that “There is no lane so long but it has
a turning," and no matter what we may suffer
through their usurpation of power, we can
truly pity them for their blindness and folly;
for “Having sown the wind they will surely
reap the whirlwind,” unless they speedily re-
pent and humble themselves before God, for it
is His cause and people whom they are fight-
ing, and we do know there is a just God, who
hears the cry of the widow and the fatherless,
who will take cognizance of the suffering and
anguish of those brave, true men who have
dared to obey His command, and remain firm
and true to their families, and in consequence
of which they have been cast into prison, or
become exiles from their once happy homes.
The suffering of those wives and innocent
children, who are thus deprived of their na-
tural protector,of his love and care, will not go
long unheeded.
	With all we have to pass through, I feel I
am safe in saying, there are none of us who
would, on any consideration, change places
with the wives of our persecutors. What
woman, possessing the spirit of the Gospel,
would part with a husband having the true
elements of a man engrafted in his nature, the
courage of a lion, mingled with gentleness and
love, even though she might be one of three or
four whom he honors, loves and protects, for
one of those vile, corrupt, cruel-hearted
creatures who bear the outward semblance of
men, but who are ravaging wolves, seeking
whom they may destroy. We would not ex-
change places for the wealth of the Indies.
	We feel capable of managing our family af-
fairs without any of their assistance, and I
fancy if they will turn their attention to their
own domestic matters they will find enough to
keep them busy.
	They give us the name of being ignorant,
low and degraded, but I think they will find
we have enough sense to shun and despise
those human vultures who seek our ruin.
	I pray God that we may ever prove true to
our religion, to our God and to our noble hus-
bands.	MARGUERITE.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending April 28th, 1885, as follows:
	Mary P. C. Hooper, New York, N. Y.,
Grated Shovel,
	Betsey A. Maxey, Knoxville, Ill., Car Coup-
ling.
	Lucinda Meekin, Cedar Town, Ga., Vehicle
Wheel-hub.
	Anna A. Wysong, Baltimore, Md., Ironing-
Board and Table.

	The following patents were issued to women
for the week ending May 5th, 1835.
	Eliza C. Atwood, Geneva, N. Y., Dustpan.
	Phoebe J. Cunningham, Amber, Ia, Flower-
stand.
	Ann M. Freeman, Kansas City, Mo., Dress-
cutting Rule.
	Mamie F. Frey, Indianapolis, Ind., Button
hook Holder for Shoes.
	Nellie S. Stowell, New York, N. Y., Sharpen
ing Tool.


