BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

     "Bro. Kimball called upon father to speak.
He arose and said:  'I suppose, as I am the old-
est person in the room, you may look upon me,
in some degree, as a father. I don't know
that I can say any more, in essence, than what
your Father Kimball has said. He has spoken
of several things, especially of faith, which, if
acted upon, will redound to your glory.
Brother Heber has spoken of the parable of
the watch--it is a good one, and if we keep
the watch wound up we cannot sin, for if a
man has the spirit of truth and righteousness
he cannot sin, and when he is possessed by the
opposite spirit he cannot do anything correct.
When we have a bad spirit, and call upon the
Lord, we will find that He is a great deal farther
off than we would imagine. Brother Heber
touched upon doing right--I believe that there
is no man in the whole circle of my acquaint-
ance, that intends to do better and work right-
eousness more than Bro. Kimball, nor one that
comes nearer to the point in so doing; there-
fore it behooves you to hold up his hands, and
as he advances in knowledge, so will you the
same; as his vessel is filled, he will pour it on
to your heads. God is no respecter of persons,
but He sets men on the earth to teach His peo-
ple, as masters are set to instruct little child-
ren. God will instruct His people from time to
time as they can bear knowledge, and when we
have fulfilled the things our messenger has
given us, another will come with fresh intelli-
gence. I have no doubt but what many of
you here will live to see the Ancient of Days
come--even old Father Adam.
     We are now in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times, and every ordinance or office
that has been practised in the church of form-
er days, will be revived in this dispensation,
even to the offering of sacrifice. Malachi
says, 'before the great and terrible day of the
Lord, I will send Elijah, the prophet, lest
there be not faith enough on the earth, and I
smite it with a curse.'
	'And for that reason was Joseph Smith sent
to turn the hearts of the fathers to the child-
ren, etc., to prepare them for the coming of
the Lord--and so He will continue to send us
intelligence by messengers, till at last, old
Father Adam shall at last appear to see his
children.
     We are too apt to judge our brethren unjust-
ly, and we should be very careful how we do
so, when we know that they are governed by
the Spirit of God. We should mind and keep
the helm of the ship in our hands, lest the
helm slip a little, a storm come on, and we lose
our latitude and longitude--but if we have
the spirit of the Lord we never shall get out
of our latitude and longitude. We should be
careful and keep the Spirit of God on our side,
for the path will grow brighter and brighter
until the perfect day.
     'Now, brethern, do you not think that it
would be a heaven on earth if there was per-
fect confidence among you--and this is heaven,
and all the heaven that we have will be that
which we make ourselves. I have sometimes
thought of the words of the Psalmist--'How
pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity,' etc. A two fold cord is stronger than
one: and take it in a family and see the neces-
sity, as well as the beauty, of union. What

[column 2]
shall I say more, brethern? I could sit down
and chat with you, I suppose, and answer al-
most any question on principle--I always rejoice
when I am able to throw light upon any mind
that is seeking intelligence.  Bro. Kimball
was observing that he had done the best he
could, and I verily believe it, under the cir-
cumstances. It is our duty to mind the ad-
monitions of the Spirit, lest we be shoaled on
the quicksands of evil. Now, I say, hearken
to the admonitions of your father, for his
teachings are good--and as for this dancing--
when we dance we should do it as much by
the spirit as we would pray. The Almighty
does not intend that a man will stay on his
knees twenty-four hours praying, but he is
willing that we should have our recreations,
but we must not get giddy, nor transcend the
bounds of reason and right, or we will get out
of the way, and have to fall back and hunt up
a position of right again. Peter sums up the
case in a few words--'add to your faith vir-
tue, and to your virtue knowledge, temperance,
and withal be patient, and last of all godliness
and brotherly kindness; and if ye observe
these things ye will not be barren nor unfruit-
ful in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.'
     'I know I have my faults as well as your-
selves, and my principal fault is impatience,
and when I preach I always hew to the line, if
the chips fly in my face. And now I feel to
bless you all in the name of Jesus Christ.'
     "Bro. Kimball arose and said: 'I have been
much edified by the conversation of Bro.
Whitney. We always had the same feelings
in common, and our views always met, and
our thoughts always flow in the same channel
--I don't know why it is so.
     'Don't you see that there should be temper-
ance in everything--dancing, eating and
drinking--now, I love to dance myself, but let
us learn to be subject to government in all
things. I am your head, your law giver and
king, and will be to all eternity, and I am re-
sponsible to my head and President, and you
are responsible to me your file leader.  I be-
lieve that some of my old progenitors, of
whom I have no knowledge, will appear and
tell me when the time shall come fore me to
rise up and administer in the ordinances for
them, and I shall receive a great deal of
knowledge from them, which I could not re-
ceive directly by revelation. Now, this idea
you never thought of, did you, boys? and I
want you to keep it secret within the walls of
your own breasts. I want to have power, when
I see my brother or sister afflicted, to tell death
to depart, and it shall depart. Every one has
the greatest obstacles to govern himself. I have
greater trouble to govern Bro. Heber, and put
self down than anything else. I always want
a clerk to attend my meetings, so that like to-
day we can have a record to look back upon
for our edification.
     'I never felt better in my mind, but my
body is ailing. I do delight in intelligence,
and delight to see an intelligent mind. I do
not know, what I know, unless by the utter-
ance of the Spirit; and if you wish to know
anything of me, put a paper in your pocket
and minute things down, that you may ask
me questions, and it will not impoverish me.
     Now, I feel to bless you in the name of the
Lord. I feel as if we have had a good time;
my feelings are good towards you all. Bishop
Whitney is as honest a man as there is this
side of heaven, and I want you to receive his
counsel as one of the Judges in Israel.'

     "Miss Helen Taylor, the step-daughter of
John Stuart Mill, and efficient member of the
London school board, has accepted a nomina-
tion to Parliament, and will make a canvass
for the seat."


