NOTES AND NEWS.
	“Elizabeth Fry is to have a monument'.”

	Mrs. James Bennett edits a woman suffrage
column in a newspaper of Richmond, Ky.

	“Sixteen women graduated this year from the
medical department of' the Iowa State Univer-
sity."

	"Miss Blanche Blanchard has excuted and
exhibited a fine crayon picture of Hon C. A.
Burke."

"Mrs. Warner, a sister of the late W. Brandt
Storer, has on exhibition at Doll & Richards'
a finely executed plaster basrelief of George
Eliot."

	“A California lady has discovered a process
for preserving the juices of citrous fruits with
their natural flavor and without fermenta-
tion”


"The Empress Eugenie is to witness the
marriage of Beatrice and Prince Henry of
Battenberg, by special invitation of the
Queen."
	"It was the son and namesake of Mr. Lin-
coln's old antagonist, Stephen A. Douglas, who
said in his speech on Memorial Day: 'God
never made a better man than Abraham Lin-
coln.' "
	"Silk culture will be a feature of summer
work at the Woman's Prison at Sherborn,
Mass., where the superintendent, Mrs. Ellen
Johnson, will devote particular attention to
it."
	"The bill requiring temperance, physiology,
and hygiene to be taught in the public schools
was passed in the Massachusetts House of Re-
presentatives last Thursday by a vote of 181
to 1. The women who have worked so faith-
fully for that excellent measure deserve great
credit for this unexpected triumph."
	"The Woman's National Press Association
was organized at New Orleans, May 13th, 1885.
Mrs. E. I. Nicholson, editor and proprieter of
the New Orleans Picayune, was elected presi-
dent; Mrs. Marian McBride, of the Boston
Post, secretary. Vice-presidents recently
elected are Mrs. Florence Adkinson, of the
Indianapolis Sentinel, Mrs. L. M. Pavy. of the
St. Louis Republican, Miss Mary McMullen, of
London, of the Anglo-American Times.

	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending May 19. as follows:
	Henrietta H. Dangerfield, Harrisburg, Va.,
Adjustable Reversible Foot-rest.
	Mary J. Holt, San Fancisco, Cal., Meat
and Provision Safe.
	Carrie F. Marsh, Detroit, Mich., Adjustable
Clothing Stiffener.
	Annie E. Sawyer, Charlestown, Mass., Skirt
Protector.


