UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Utah County met in
conference May 29th, 1885, President Mary
John presiding, with Counselor Emily G. Cluff.
Present, of the Priesthood, Apostles John
Henry Smith and F. M. Lyman; President A.
O. Smoot, Counselor . D. John and others.
Visitors from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. B.
Wells and Lucy W. Kimball. 
	Conference opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of former conference read and ap-
proved. The resignation of Sister Rhoda
Lyman, Second Counselor to President Mary
John, was read and accepted; a vote of thanks
was also given Sister Lyman for her services.
The presidents of the various branches of the
Relief Society throughout the county were
called upon to report the respective organiza-
tions over which they presided. All that were
present responded in a very satisfactory man-
ner, reporting, as a general thing,faith and good
works, and a desire to live humble and prayer-
ful, and remain faithful to the end, that they
might gain salvation in the world to come.
	Sister E. B. Wells made many comforting
and encouraging remarks to the sisters, ex-
horting them to faithfulness in every duty, es-
pecially in the training of their children, etc.
thought we need not be cast down, we have
plenty of bright days to look forward to, etc.
	Apostle John H. Smith spoke to the sisters
for a short time, when, after singing and
prayer, conference adjourned till two p.m.
	Afternoon session. Conference met per ad-
journment. Opened with singing and prayer.
President A. O. Smoot said he would now pro-
ceed to fill the vacancy caused by the resigna-
tion of Sister Rhoda Lyman, and as Sister
John had chosen Sister Marilla M. Daniels to be
her Second Counselor, he would call a vote to
that effect. The vote was then called and car-
ried unanimously. President Smoot spoke in
terms of approbation of the sisters of the Re-
lief Society, of their willingness at all times
to respond to all calls made upon them by the
Priesthood, etc.
	Counselors Cluff and Daniels spoke a few
words; also Sisters E. B. Wells and L. W.
Kimball, followed by Apostle F. M. Lyman,
with very instructive remarks. Altogether
our conference was a feast to all, and the Spirit
of God was with us.
	President John made the closing remarks,
endorsing all that had been said, and praying
the Lord to bless each and every one.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by F. M. Lyman.
		C. DANIELS, Secretary.

