MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	It may appear to others that it is none of
my business, as I do not live among the "Mor-
mons," but I sympathize with an honest and
industrious people, who are trying to establish
primitive Christianity, and who are being im-
posed upon and misrepresented by a few ad-
venturers, who have set up in business there
to fatten and grow rich on the honest toil of
the Mormons.
	This, I learn, is the case in your country.
This ought not to be so. The Mormons have
seventy-five per cent of the population, and
ought to control almost everything, even
though many of your best citizens are disfran-
chised, if they would act as a unit in other
matters—that is, never spend a dollar of their
money with any but their own people, establish
your own fashions and trade only with your own
people, and let no empty declaration of friend-
ship fool you, for words are mighty cheap. If
they have not incurred and brought on them-
selves the opposition of the world by uniting
with the Church and being in full harmony
with you, have nothing to do with them; let
them severely alone; don't patronize their
schools, nor places of amusement, nor attend
their churches, for if you are right they are
wrong, and gospel speculations ought not to
be encouraged by those who have the truth al-
ready.
	This may look selfish to some, but the law
of self-defense requires it in your case, for the
pretty goods and flattering talk your young 
people will see and hear at the stores of Baby-
lon will lead many in their ways, and this
weakens the Mormons and strengthens them;
and if this should continue in a few years
they will have the majority in numbers; and
then, backed by the Federal Government, as
they are, you would be driven away from your
homes and property, as your people were in
Missouri forty years ago; but if you could act
as a unit, and have no dealings with the enemy,
they would not be tempted to settle among
you, and it would help to drive the spies and
traitors out of your midst.	*	*	*
	In war times the most enlightened people
have hung spies and traitors; but I don't en-
courage hanging, for the Bible says, "Thou
shalt not kill." But don't visit your enemies
nor receive them in your social circles; the
public frown is very powerful, and it will, in
time, drive all but the dare-devil sort out of
your midst.
	JOHN M. RUSSELL.
Alabama.


