IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of deep sorrow that we record the
death of our dear friend and sister, Lucy Annie Johnson,
beloved wife of President W. D. Johnson Jun. She
passed to her eternal rest on that holiest of all days—
the Sabbath—at Kanab, at two o'clock a.m., April 26th,
1885.
	Sister Lucy A. was the daughter of Benjamin and
Sarah Salsbury, and was born November 2nd, 1850, in
Moringo, Wayne County, State of New York. She was
married to W. D. Johnson Jun. in Salt Lake City, Nov.
26th 1870. Soon after their marriage they settled at
Kanab. She was Counselor to the President of the Re-
lief Society for many years. At the organization of the
Primary Association, in the Kanab Stake of Zion, she
was chosen by Sister E. R. S. Smith, and sustained by
the people as President of the Stake, and over all the
ward associations.
	When the Kanab Stake Relief Society was reorganized
through the great love the sisters had for her, she was
sustained as President, although her great suffering
never permitted her to attend to these duties.
	Sister Lucy was a true and loving wife, and a help-
meet in every sense of the word. Our dear sister was
a most affectionate mother, and her wife-sisters almost
worshiped her. She has been a great sufferer for many 
years, but the immediate cause of her demise was
dropsy.
	During her last sickness her faith and endurance
were remarkable; yet, with all, she was submissive to
the will of her Heavenly Father. Even in her last
moments, when her heart yearned for the presence of
her much beloved husband, who was fleeing from his
persecutors, her prayer was, "Thy will, O Lord, be
done."
	At the funeral, which was held Sunday, the 26th, the
meeting House was filled to overflowing—every child
wishing to take a last look at their beloved President.
The speakers were Prest. E. D. Woolley, Elder J. A.
Little and Bishop Robinson. They paid her the highest
tribute that could be given to woman, by saying she
had been a pure, consistent woman in every phase of
life.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, The alwise Father has seen fit to remove our
dear sister, President Lucy Annie Johnson, from this
sphere of action to a more exalted one above, therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in
the Relief Society of the Kanab Ward, do deeply mourn
her loss, and that we cherish her memory and emulate
her many virtues. We can truly say her fallings "E'en
leaned to virtue's side." She manifested that true
charity which flows from a sense of duty and a hope in
God. 
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved husband and family in the loss of a loving wife,
mother and sister.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they be placed upon the
ward record.
	Farewell, dear sister, rest in peace, and may the
Lord grant that our future may be as bright and hope-
ful as thine. 	[Signed]
		HARRIET BUNTING,
		ARTEMACY STEWART,
		ELIZABETH ROBINSON,
