WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Gray Memorial at Cambridge.—A bust of
the poet Gray was recently unveiled in the
hall of Pembroke college, Cambridge, by Lord
Houghton, in the presence of a distinguished
company, and the occasion was rendered more
noteworthy from the fact that the Hon. James
Russell Lowell, the late American Minister,
made his farewell public speech prior to leav-
ing England. Amongst the ladies in the
gallery was Miss Mary Anderson. The bust
of Gray is in white marble, and is mounted
upon a pedestal of Pavonezza marble, on the
front of which is a beautiful relief represent-
ing the first stanza of “The Elegy.” Mr.
Lowell said he came to speak as the represen-
tative of certain of his countrymen and coun-
trywomen who liked to renew that affirmation
of the unity of the British race by giving
something better than words in memory of the
poet they loved. Gray had been called com-
mon-place, but that, he thought, was a compli-
ment. He was inclined to judge poets by their
lasting power. Gray not only pleased his
youth and age, but other people's youth and
age. He touched our human nature at a great
many periods and a great many levels. There
was commonplace in the “Elegy,” and also in
some phrases which had been in use for 3,000
years. As long as there were young men, as long
as there were middle-aged men, Gray would hold
his place, in the human mind. They would,
perhaps, before he sat down allow him to say
something about himself. This would be the
last occasion on which he would have the op-
portunity of addressing Englishmen in public.
He wished to express his most heartfelt grati-
tude for the kindness which had surrounded
him in his official and private life, and had
made it delightful. While he had come there
as a distant cousin they were sending him away
as something like a brother.


Patents have been issued as follows to women
inventors for the week ending June 16th,
1885:
	Eliza Bloom, New York, N. Y., Seal-lock.
	Camille D. Cuper, Paris, France, Skirt.
	Emma L. Maesel, New York, N. Y., Bas-
ket.
	Lilly F. Roberts, Kentucky Town, Texas,
Pocket.
	Lydia A. Rowe, Springfield, O., Pie and
Cake Rack.


