RICHMOND, CACHE CO.
	The sixth annual meeting of the Richmond
Primary Association was held in the new
meeting house, June 1st, 1885, at two p.m.
There were present Sisters Presendia L. Kim-

[Column 2]

ball and Margaret P. Young of Salt Lake
City; Adaline Barber and Martha Williams of
Smithfield, besides several other visitors; the
ward authorities, Sister Myra Merrill, Prest. of
the Relief Society, her Counselors and a great
many of the parents of the children.
	After the opening exercises the minutes of
the fifth annual meeting were read and ap-
proved; also the statistical and financial reports
of the past year.
	The officers for the ensuing year were pre-
sented by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore as follows:
Mary Allsop, President; Mary Monson and
Maggie W. Thompson, Counselors; Satie J.
Petty, Secretary; Jane Hyer, Assistant Secre-
tary; Byrdie Harrison, Treasurer; Libbie A.
Merrill, Organist. All were unanimously sus-
tained. The programme, consisting of songs,
recitations, addresses, etc., was very well ren-
dered.
	Jane Hyer, in behalf of the members of the
Association, presented Sister Mary Allsop with
a beautiful dress pattern, with materials ready
for making up, accompanied by the following
address:
	To our beloved President, Sister Mary Allsop.
	We, the members of the Primary Associa-
tion, take pleasure in expressing our love and
good will toward you on this occasion, for the
great interest you have taken in us, and request
you to accept this small present as a token of
our love and esteem. May the blessings of
peace, comfort and health attend you, are the
wishes of the members of this Association.
	Sister Allsop was taken entirely by sur-
prise, and responded with a brief address of
thanks.
	Sisters Barber, Kimball, Young and Wil
liams, Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore and Counsel-
or Hyer made short addresses, encouraging
the children to be diligent in their labors in
the Association.
	After closing exercises meeting adjourned
for one year.
	Financial and Statistical report for the
year beginning June first, 1884, and ending
June 1st, 1885. Officers, 7; members, 205;
total, 212; average attendance, 110; meetings
held, 49; cash in treasury from previous year,
$1.25; cash received from members during the
year, $8.15; cash received from Primary enter-
tainment, $64; total, $73.40. Disbursements.
To new meeting house, $53.25; expended for
Primary entertainment, 50; emigration fund,
$3; martyr's fund, $2; paid for cards, $4.75; to
Stake Presidency, 50; Primary hymn books
and writing materials, $1.15; total expended,
$65.15; cash on hand, $8.25; property on hand,
$5.		MAGGIE W. THOMPSON,
			Secretary pro. tem.


