OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.

	We, the undersigned committee, having full
power and authority to settle and adjust all
matters and differences existing between our
people or society and the inhabitants of Jack-
son County, upon honorable and constitutional
principles; therefore, if the said inhabitants
of Jackson County will not let us return to our
lands in peace, we are willing to propose, first-
ly, that twelve disinterested men, six to be
chosen by our people, and six by the inhabit-
ants of Jackson County, and these twelve men
shall say what the lands of those men are
worth in that county who cannot consent to
live with us,and they shall receive their money
for the same in one year from the time the
treaty is made,and none of our people shall en-
ter the county to reside till the money is paid.
The said twelve men shall have power, also,
to say what the damages shall be for the injur-
ies we have sustained in the destruction of
property, and in being driven from our possess-
ions, which amount of damages shall be de-
ducted from the amount for their lands. Our
object is peace, and an early answer will be ex-
pected.	[Signed]
		W. W. PHELPS,
		EDWARD PARTRIDGE,
		ISAAC MORLEY,
		JOHN CORRILL,
		JOHN WHITMER,
		A. S. GILRERT.
	The Prophet continues: "June 24th. This
night the cholera burst forth among us, and
about midnight it was manifest in its most
terrified form. Our ears were saluted with
cries and moanings and lamentations on every
hand; even those on guard fell to the earth
with their guns in their hands, so sudden and
powerful was the attack of this terrible dis-
ease.
	"At the commencement I attempted to lay
on hands for their recovery, but I quickly
learned, by painful experience, that when the
great Jehovah decrees destruction upon any
people, makes known His determination, man
must not attempt to stay His hand. The mo-
ment I attempted to rebuke the disease, that
moment I was attacked, and had I not desisted
I must have saved the life of my brother by
the sacrifice of my own, for when I rebuked
the disease it left him and seized me.
	"Early on the morning of the 25th the camp
was separated into small bands and dispersed
among the brethren living in the vicinity, and
I wrote and sent by express to Messrs Thorn-
ton, Donaphon and Atchison, as follows:
	RUSH CREEK, Clay Co., June 25th, 1834.
GENTLEMEN:
	Our company of men advanced yesterday
from their encampment beyond Fishing River,
to Rush Creek, where the tents are again
pitched. But feeling disposed to adopt every
pacific measure that can be done, without jeo-
pardizing our lives, to quiet the prejudices and
fears of some part of the citizens of this coun-
ty, we have concluded that our company shall
be immediately dispersed, and continue so, till
very effort for an adjustment of differences

[Column 2]

between us and the people of Jackson has been
made on our part, that would in any wise be
required of us by disinterested men of repub-
lican principles.
	I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
		JOSEPH SMITH JUN.
	N. B. You are now corresponding with the
Governor (as I am informed), will you do us
the favor to acquaint him of our efforts for a
compromise. This information we want con-
veyed to the Governor, inasmuch as his ears
are stifled with reports from Jackson of our
hostile intentions, etc.
	"I left Rush Creek the same day, in com-
pany with David Whitmer and two other
brethren, for the western part of Clay County.
While traveling we called at a house for a
drink of water. The woman of the house
shouted from the door that they had "no water
for Mormons," that they were afraid of the
cholera, etc. We turned and departed, ac-
cording to the commandment; and before the
week had passed the cholera entered that
house, and that woman and three others of
the family were dead
	"When the cholera made its appearance
Elder John Carter was the first man who
stepped forward to rebuke it, and upon this was
instantly seized, and became the first victim in
the camp. He died about six o'clock in the
afternoon, and Seth Hitchcock died in about
thirty minutes after. As it was impossible to
obtain coffins, the brethren rolled them in
blankets, carried them on a horse sled about
half a mile, and buried them in the bank of
a small stream, which empties into Rush Creek,
all of which was accomplished by dark. When
they had returned from the burial the brethren
united, covenanted and prayed, hoping the
disease would be staid, but in vain, for while
we were thus covenanting Eber Wilcox died,
and while some were digging the grave others
stood sentry with their fire arms, watching
their enemies.	*	*	*	*
	"The cholera continued its ravages about
four days, when an effectual remedy, for their
purging, vomiting and cramping was discovered,
viz., dipping the person afflicted in cold water,
or pouring it upon them. About sixty-eight
of the Saints suffered from this disease, of
which number thirteen died.	*	*
	"The last days of June I spent with my old
Jackson County friends in the western part of
Clay County. On the first of July I crossed
the Missouri River, in company with a few
friends, into Jackson County, to set my feet
once more on the 'goodly land,' and on the
second I went down near Liberty and visited
the brethren."	*	*	*	*
	The revelations and letters that the Jackson
County Saints received, must have been a
source of great comfort and consolation to
them in their afflictions, and when the Prophet
Joseph came with Zion's camp, I can imagine,
in some degree, how great their joy must have
been; not because of the prospect of being re-
stored to their homes, but because of the great
love manifested by their brethren, and, child
as I was, I partook of the joyful spirit of my
parents. Some of the brethren of Zion's camp
stopped at my father's and I particularly re-
member Dr. Darwin Richardson. When Bro.
Joseph returned to Kirtland father either went
with him, or soon after, and was absent several
months.
	How mother managed to live I cannot tell;
only the Lord did provide. The children con-
tinued to go to school in the log cabin, in the
Paupau Grave, having our pleasures and
troubles mixed, as a natural consequence of
school children, but children's troubles are
generally short lived, and ours did not hinder
us from having plenty of fun. We had some
sickness in our family while father was absent,
but our lives were spared through all our wan-
derings, until we came to Nauvoo; there death

[Column 3]

began to make inroads in our family. Some
of the brethren purchased land in Clay Co.
but the Saints had no intention of making a
permanent settlement in that place.
	The spirit of mobocracy continued to mani-
fest itself among the inhabitants of Clay Co.,
and the Saints began to flee from their persecu-
tors. They purchased land in Caldwell Coun-
ty, Missouri, and established a gathering place
for the scattered Saints.
	Father moved his family into a pieee of
timber, about three miles from the place where
Far West was afterwards located. Father and
the brethren that were with him built log huts
and prepared us as well as they could for the
coming winter. The timber in which we were
camped was mostly hickory, with some black
walnut, and hazle bushes were plentiful, and
all were loaded with nuts, and when the frost
came they dropped from the trees and lay so
thick on the ground all around us that the
children were kept pretty busy gathering them
up. We gathered several bushels, and feasted
on nuts though the winter, if with little else.
As father's eldest children were all girls, my
sister Harriet and I had to act the part of
boys and help him with his work,such as milk-
ing the cows and going to the prairie and assist
him in loading hay, and sometimes we would
carry the chain when he surveyed the land.
	After Far West was laid out father built
another house and we moved into the city.
The Saints from all parts of the world, where
the Gospel had been preached, began to gather
in, and the place was rapidly built up.
	Troubles in Kirtland multiplied, until the
Saints in that place had to flee to Missouri,and
the Saints in the west had the Prophet, for the
first time, residing in their midst, which they
esteemed as a very great blessing. The Saints
continued to take up land and settle in the sur-
rounding counties, and peace and prosperity
reigned in their midst.


