THE EDMUNDS BILL.

	To say that the Edmunds Bill has become a
law does not signify that it is a constitutional
law. He may just as well draft a bill making
it a penalty of fine and imprisonment to be-
lieve in the Bible, for every sane man knows
that the people of God practised polygamy,
and they were commanded so to do according
to the history of Abraham, and Jacob, who
served seven years for Rachel, the mother of
Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, which is
proof positive that God-sanctioned and blessed
this union of polygamous marriage. Has God
changed? Who has the authority to say He
has? Surely Mr. Edmunds has never read his
Bible, for it says He changeth not; and Jesus
says, "Judge not; with that judgment you
judge, you shall be judged." History repeats
itself; the same cause produces the same effect.
The imprisonment of such men as President
Cannon, and other righteous men with whom
we are well acquainted, and know them to be
the highest type of morality, walking in the
fear of God, with the greatest reverence for
the Constitution of our once free and happy
country, holding it as a sacred instrument,
given by inspiration, purchased with the noblest
blood of our veteran fathers. Can those who
signed the Declaration of Independence look
down and see that sacred, heaven-born boon
of freedom violated, trampled under foot, with-
out exerting all their influence, yes, all the
energies of their soul to save it, when it was
purchased at such a price? No; they may tear
it into shreds, they may burn it into ashes,
but they cannot destroy it. The same power
that organized and brought it forth can restore
the elements, bring them together again, raise
up mighty men filled with the spirit of the
patriots, whose prayers will ascend up to God
—give us liberty or death.
	Has this ceased to be a Republican Govern-
ment? Is this a land of liberty? Look with-
in the prison walls of Detroit, Salt Lake City
and Yuma, and you will find those there who
have never violated one single constitutional
law, without a shadow of evidence to convict
them. Shall we publish it to the world that
women, too, have been imprisoned for refusing
to answer illegal and insulting questions, such
as never were heard of before in any respect-
able court? They followed the example of our
Savior, when He was arraigned before the
judges, He opened not His mouth.
	If Mary, the mother of Christ, was here
they would imprison her, for 'tis nowhere re-
corded that she told who was the father of her
child, but there were many witnesses that said
He was the Son of God, although the angel of
the Lord appeared unto Joseph, unto whom
she was espoused, to justify her, and they fled
into the hilly country of Judea, yet we have
no account of her imprisonment.

[Column 2]

	In the days of our Savior, when the Apostle
Peter was imprisoned, we read that the disciples
prayed continually, and there came an angel
by night and delivered him out of prison; as
also in the case of Paul and Silas, the inter-
position of the Almighty delivered them. Up-
on reading the biographical sketch of Presi-
dent Cannon, and the defence of A. Milton
Musser, how forcibly we were reminded of the
noble and sublime defence made by that an-
cient and mighty apostle, when the governor
was led to exclaim, "Paul, thou almost per-
suadest me to be a Christian." What was the
answer? "Would to God thou wast, most
noble Festus, even such as I, excepting these
bonds." This great and mighty apostle, who
had persecuted the Saints, even unto death, had
seen a vision, heard a voice, and testified that
Jesus was the Christ. For this cause they
were persecuted, even unto death, in those days.
The same cause produces the same effect. Now,
to be a traitor to our country is considered
worthy of death; how much more so to be a
traitor to our God, who gives testimonies and
manifestations to make us witnesses of His
power and the plan of salvation.
	Now, we say unto our brethren who are in
prison, "Be of good cheer; the same spirit and
power that persecuted those ancient worthies, is
the power that is arraigned against you, and is
proof positive that you are engaged in the
same cause. There are ten thousand daily
prayers ascending up before the throne of God
for your deliverance, and well do we know
that God can deliver you, but suffers these
persecutions to fill up the cup of their ini-
quity."
	Some of the ladies are talking of getting up
a petition to the chief executive of the nation
to have the prisons built large enough for all
the religious world, as they all express a desire
to go to Abraham's bosom. We hope our
brethren who are in prison will appeal their
case to the courts on high, that the recording
angels may bear record of the proceedings and
sentence passed upon those innocent men that
God, angels and patriots may hear and know
and take action upon their case, that the cries
of the fatherless and the widow may come up
into the ears of the Lord against those that
have caused this sorrow ond oppression to come
upon the innocent. The religion of the Lord
Jesus is founded upon facts; it is no fable, and
this Government will have to account for the
persecution of the Latter-day Saints.
	The President of this Church is a living
witness to-day of the martyrdom of our Prophet
and Patriarch. He can testify that on the
night of the martyrdom the Prophet asked
him to sing these words:

	In prison I saw him next,—condemned
	To meet a traitor's doom at morn;
	The tide of lying tongues I stemmed,
	And honored him mid shame and scorn.

	My friendship's utmost zeal to try,
	He asked if I for him would die,
	The flesh was weaky, my blood ran chill,
	But the free spirit cried, "I will!"

	Then in a moment to my view,
	The stranger started from disguise,
	The tokens in his hands I knew,
	The Savior stood before mime eyes.

	He spake, and my poor name he named—
	"Of me thou hast hot been ashamed;
	These deeds shall thy memorial be;
	Fear not thou didst them unto me.

	President Taylor offered to die for the
Prophet. He stood between him and death in
fulfillment of the words he had sung but a few
hours before the massacre.
