	DRAPER, SALT LAKE CO, Apr. 19, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very quiet little place and its
name is not often seen in the EXPONENT,
but it is said "Let your light shine," there-
fore in behalf of my sisters; and also for
the encouragement of some, I have written
these few lines.  We hold our Retrench-
ment meetings once a week, and unless bad
weather prevents, they are well attended
by sisters who are striving to become unit-
ed.  We are thankful to our Heavenly
Father for the many blessings which we en-
joy, and for the privilege of thus meeting
together in an association, and we realize
that these societies are calculated to make
us stronger in the principles of our religion,
and more noble and worthy to become
mothers in Israel.
	We had been counseled to cease the
round dances, but as they had become the
favorite and almost universal dance, it ap-
peared at first, as though it would be a hard
matter to get the young to comply with the
request. But after being organized the sis-
ters immediately resolved to cease dancing
them.  The young men complied without
the least resistance, so there is no more
round dancing among us, and our parties
are not held later than ten o'clock in the
evening, and the smell of liquor has not
been known in our dances this winter,
which is one of the greatest improvements.
It is said that whatever may be the customs
or laws of any country, women always give
the tone to morals.  Therefore dear sisters
let us be guarded in our actions that we
may always wield a good influence. Let us
live our religion in every particular that we
may have courage to do right, power to re-
buke sickness and disease; and always have
the Spirit of God to combat with our ene-
mies.  We must not let the faults of others
weaken us in the faith, but let it be an in-
centive to live better lives ourselves. Our
Heavenly Father is a just God, and will not
let the ways of the wicked destroy the sal-
vation of the righteous.
	With a desire to be faithful to the end, I
am your Sister in the Gospel.
							J. A. S.


[Column 1]
