		TO YOUNG MEN.

	Young man, are you ambitious? Did you
ever have a desire to be greater, better and
wiser than you are? Or, are you completely
satisfied with yourself, and imagine (for in-
deed it is but mere imagination) that you
can be no better?
	If such an idea as this latter has entered
your mind, cast it from you and shun it as
a thing to be feared and despised, for, if
you are working to accomplish anything,
just so sure as you encourage this conceited
thought, just so sure will you come to a
stand-still. Do you know why? Listen—
when you allow yourself to be contented
with a few primary efforts, the success of
which may have flattered you into the be-
lief that you are a born genius, you be-
come blind to everything but self-love.
You survey yourself in a mirror which
shows but a part of you; you cannot see
your faults for you think you have none;
you can form no conjecture of a higher
grade of excellence than the one where
you now are, and, unless you do this, and
have a definite object to work to, a standard
ahead to claim your attention and incite
you to exertion, it is impossible for you to
advance; as well attempt to guide a vessel


across the ocean in a storm without the aid
of compass, rudder or sail.
	On the other hand, if you are striving to
make headway, and directing all your ef-
forts toward the encompassing of an hon-
orable ambition, though the prospect may
appear dark, and no light of encouragement
illumine the pathway you are pursuing, it
is at this very time that you are making
rapid advancement. Why? Because your
thoughts are not on yourself, but far ahead
resting upon the realization of the object to-
ward which you are surely making your way.
It is quite natural that this should appear
difficult, but never allow it to discourage
you. The obstacles that appal you for most
part are your imperfections (now plainly
visable) and a lack of faith in yourself.
These, and all others may be overcome, and
will diminish correspondingly to the
amount of confidence you place in your own
ability. Do not despair because you are
poor, nor heed those who despise your
humble position. These narrow souls
would be the first to lick your hand if you
were wealthy, even as a lap dog licks the
hand that feeds it—do not trust or notice
them. Cultivate the love and friendship of
those who are not to be influenced by the
changes of fortune. Who love you for
yourself; whether covered in rags, or clothed
in purple, and who remain, through sum-
mer and winter, in sunshine or in shadow,
TRUE TO THE CORE.
	Leave nothing to chance. Rather go to
it than wait for it to come to you. Be vir-
tuous, temperate and industrious.
	"Let God-like Reason, from her sovereign
throne, speak the commanding words I WILL
and it is done."
