	NEPHI CITY, Apr. 13, '76.
EDITOR EXPONEMT.
	The Young Ladies' Society here, meet
twice a month and spend the time in talk-
ing of the things concerning their religion.
	Many of the young ladies seem to be
deeply interested in the Association and
take pleasure in composing essays, and read-
ing selections from good books and papers.
	The Association has quite a supply of
braiding material on hand, and judging
from the improvement that is being made,
they will soon be able to manufacture their
own hats and bonnets.
	Being desirious of raising funds to pur-
chase books, several parties were given
during the winter, in which the counsel of
our much esteemed President Brigham
Young, with regard to dancing was strictly
observed.
	Yours with respect,
		L. L. FOOTE, Sec'y.
			S. HOYT, Assistant.

	WALES, SANPETE Co., April 8th, 76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Society for Young La-
dies' was organized in this place by Bishop
John Reese and his Counselors, March 29,
1876; the officers as follows:
	Maggie J. Reese, President,
	Martha Ann Reese,
	Hannah Freak
	Lizzie Reese, Sec'y.		Counselors.
	As our settlement is a small one, the So-
ciety was organized with ten members.
We hold our meetings regularly, and desire
to improve in everything pertaining to our
relations in life, socially, physically and re-
ligiously. We have already raised money
enough to subscribe for the EXPONENT for
one year. We hope to be visited during
the summer by some of the more experi-
enced sisters from Salt Lake City.
	Yours, &c.,
		M. J. REESE, Prest.

	TOOELE CITY, April 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Spirit and blessing of God our Fath-
er is with us in our labors and meetings to-
gether as a Relief Society, and although we
may be feeble at present, we realize that
wisdom and knowledge are requisite in
seeking those gifts and adornments that
are becoming to woman, and highly nec-
essary to those who have received the
Everlasting Gospel and have the privileges
we enjoy, of learning from inspired men
and women, the principles of exaltation.
	We highly prize the EXPONENT, for it is
full of gems of purest light; whoever will
read it candidly will certainly perceive
there is a different influence in Utah to what
there is in any other country, and that we
are really "a peculiar people." I hope the
rest may be said of us with as much truth
"zealous of good works." We are well
aware, however humble our labors may be,
they will result in good, if we work with a
pure motive.
	We are trying this season to raise means
to build a house, for there is quite a large
Retrenchment Society here, who require a
meeting-house as well as ourselves.
	Our President, Sister Meiklejohn, is most
untiring and energetic iu her labors, and
possesses the full confidence and love of the
sisters in this place.
	That we may do our part in helping roll
on this great work, and eventually be saved

