		USE GOOD ENGLISH.

	A great deal depends on early habit; and
correct language learned in early life is eas

[Column 2]
ily continued ever afterward. Whenever
young persons use a wrong word, let them
immediately select the right expression and
repeat it to themselves a number of times,
and in this way it will soon become easy
and natural. Without such repetition in
use they will certainly fail. Many things in
life depend on a good use of English; and
on the other hand, nothing will retard suc-
cessful progress in life sooner than bad
English, bad pronunciation, and slang words.
Edward Everett said that "to read the Eng-
lish language well, to write a neat, legible
hand and to be master of the first four rules
of arithmetic"—I call this a good education.
And if you add the ability to write pure
grammatical English, I regard it as an ex-
cellent education.
	Now, to correct errors and establish a
good practice the work must be taken in de-
tail. One thing must be done at a time.
One of the first steps then, is to use simple
language to express just what we want to
say. There are several words often improp-
erly used for many different meanings, and
in this way they loose their force. Take, for
example, the word fix—the strict meaning
of which is to make fast, to settle, but it is
improperly used in many other ways, as "I
fixed my hair, I fixed the wagon, I fixed
my gloves, I fixed the room," &c.; instead
of "I brushed my hair, I repaired the wag-
on, I sewed my gloves, I put my room in
order," &c.
	Another word used still more loosely and
widely, is, "nice." This properly means
over exact; punctilious; delicate; subtle.
But is often employed to denote all com-
mendable qualities. We often hear careless
speakers say "this apple is nice," instead of
delicious; she is a nice girl," instead of 
good or agreeable; a nice landscape," for a
lovely landscape; a nice cottage," instead of
a snug one; a nice man," instead of a geni-
al man; a nice mountain," instead of a
grand or lofty one; "a nice drink of water,"
for a refreshing one; "a nice story," instead
of an interesting one; "a nice smell," to a
flower, for a pleasant odor; and so on with-
out limit. Some persons look nice, walk
nice, talk nice, make a nice visit, write a
nice letter, live in a nice house, wear nice
clothes, make a nice present, &c.
	Again, the word "awful," which means
dreadful, fearful, sublime, is used as a gen-
eral adjective for nearly all purposes, both
good and bad, by those who cannot select a
separate and appropriate adjective for each
separate purpose; and we accordingly hear
of an awful nice day, an awful dull knife,
an awful good pear, an awful old hat, etc.,
etc.
	Another word, "got," is used profusely
by some speakers. Some of our readers
have perhap's heard the man's naration:—
"After I got your letter I got on horseback,
and when I got to Boston I got a carriage,
but I got wet before I got to the office, and
I got such a cold as I can't get rid of. I got
to the hotel and got my supper, and then I
got to bed, but it was long before I got to
to sleep. When I got up in the morning
and got my breakfast, I got to the cars, and
got home before night."
	To avoid all such inelegancies, or to cor-
rect them when they have become a habit,
repeat to yourself the correction, and con-
tinue to repeat it till it becomes ready and
familiar in use. In this way young persons
may acquire the habit of using the best
language, and the longer it is continued the
more easy and natural it will become. Al-
ways select the shortest and simplest words,
and those which convey distinctly the in-
tended meaning. All this will require at-
tention and pains, without which nothing
is ever accomplished.—Ex.


