WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ANNIE Whitney has sent to the Centen-
nial the statuettes of Roma and Charles
Sumner.
	THE widow of Frederick VII of Den-
mark, (the Countess Lanner) has bequeathed
all her vast estate valued at $4,000,000 to
support institutions for orphaned and de-
serted girls of Denmark; at Jagerspris,
in North Zealand, it is the intention to
erect the central building of the institution
first, and to make it sufficiently large to
provide suitably for the maintenance of
six or eight hundred children.
	MRS. Sarah E. Bonney, of Sterling, Mass.,


has sent to the Centennial Exhibition, two
cases of choice articles. One case contains
twenty-five birds of different varieties,
from the humming-bird to the owl, all shot
by herself, and mounted, after being pre-
pared for that purpose, upon an imitation
branch of laurel. The second case con-
tains a muff, boa, and hat, made of duck's
feathers selected and arranged, and put on
in the most delicate and tasteful manner.
Also several bird-fans, with the wings
spread and the full size of the breast and
head of the dove in the center of each fan.
	"BLACK Swan," the celebrated and ac-
complished vocalist, died suddenly in Phil-
adelphia on Friday morning Apr. 14. Dur-
ing the last few years she had not appeared
before the public, except to sing at concerts
for the benefit of charitable institutions.
She was born a slave and was refused a su-
perior musical education on account of her
color. However by her own gifts of genius
she won the patronage of many distin-
guished people and ladies of rank in Eng-
land and throughout Europe and sang
before many of the crowned heads, receiv-
ing almost unlimited adulation and numer-
ous elegant and costly presents. Her name
was Elizabeth Taylor Greenfield, and at
the time of her death she was sixty-eight
years old.
	"MLLE. Bettina De Rothschild, daughter
of Baron Alfonso, head of the Paris House,
marries one of her Vienna cousins." The
reception in honor of the contract being
signed, was given March 19th. A great
amount was then given away in charity, as
well as in munificient presents. The
wealthy fiancee gave to five poor young girls
suitable dowries. This distinguished young
lady, at sixteen passed an examination for
a teacher at the Hotel de Ville, and several
other young ladies of the most wealthy
families followed her example, which was
certainly a commendable one, as changes
in life and governments sometimes reduce
even the wealthiest persons to comparative
if not abject poverty.


