MORE ABOUT ECONOMY.

	At a special meeting recently held in Ogden
City, President Young in making remarks up-
on the needless expenditures of the women of
the Latter-day Saints, calculated that if he had
the surplus thus wasted, a temple might be
built every year. He also made a similar esti-
mate of the money unprofitably spent by the
brethren.
	When called to account for this lamentable
mis-use of property, surely many of the Latter-
day Saints will have great occasion to be more
ashamed of their foolish vanity than they are
of the economy they are sometimes forced to
use.
	It is an absurd and ridiculous weakness of
which some people are possessed, to desire to
appear richer than they are. But a really sen-
sible man or woman will not be ashamed of
any economy which it is necessary to practice.
In considering the remarks of the President on
the subject still farther, it is clearly apparent
that of right, those of this people who are pos-
sessed of the largest amount of worldly goods
have no more to spend in unnecessary display
than the poorest among them. He said em-
phatically that he, his brethren or his sisters
had no time or means to spend for nought.
	It would become every woman belonging to
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to examine her own life, and seek to dis-
cover whether she is spending time or means
for nought, or causing or encouraging others to
do so. No one need indulge the thought that
[--]cause her neighbors, who spend so much
more than she does, excuse themselves in liv-
ing on in careless ease and extravagance, that
it is useless for her to cultivate in herself and
in her household true economy, which is al-
ways in keeping with good taste.
	Every house keeper should be aware that it
is more to her credit and the comfort of those
she serves, that her tumblers are clear and free
from lint than that they should be elaborately
cut; that her knife handles are perfectly wiped
than of a costly material. And so of other
things. The enjoyment of a company at din-
ner depends much more on neatness and good
order than on expensive table furniture on a
few dishes well cooked than a great variety
badly served.
	If a young lady is blest with affectionate and
indulgent parents, she should be careful not to
influence them to incur expenses they can ill
afford, either in dress, furniture or entertain-
ments. She should understand that their feel-
ings are all on her side, and instead of appeal-
ing to them, consult their judgment and ex-
perience, and beg them not to grant her re-
quest unless they think it right and know they
can afford it. Even in cases where young peo-


ple think they are unnecessarily restricted they
are apt to be mistaken. The ambition of par-
ents for their children is generally as great as
that of children for themselves; and without a
full knowledge of their father's affairs they are
not capable of judging how much he can af-
ford to spend on their pleasures.
	Great wisdom, as well as much fortitude is
necessary to enable a person to practice true
economy in these days.


[Column 1]
