				CRITICISM.

			"O, breath of public praise,
		Short-liv'd and vain! oft gained without desert
		As often lost unmerited				HARVARD.

	It is much more easy to tear down than to
build up. Adapting this saying to the depart-
ment of literature, one can readily perceive
that it runs thus, it is far easier to criticise than
compose, and there are more critics than au-
thors; a[-]d as Sir Walter Scott said "there are
literary tinkers, who after the fashion of their
class, make two holes in patching one." It is
more easy to read a book than write one." But
to be popular is also to be unpopular; or as we
have often seen verified there is a class of per-
sons who are never comfortable except when
they are uncomfortable.
	If one would accomplish a fixed purpose in
whatever department one may select, it is well
to receive counsel, advice, suggestions, criti-
cisms even, and pleasantly too--profit by them,
applying them to practical use; but if one is
laboring earnestly with a definite idea in one's
own mind, do not let any of these hindrances
or helps (as the case may be) destroy the de-
velopment of the idea, or prevent the original
intention.

						"The noisy praise
		Of giddy crowds, is changeable as winds;
		Still vehement, and still without a cause;
		Servant to change and blowing in the tide
		Of swo[-]n success; but yeering with the ebb,
		It leaves the channel dry."				DRYDEN,

	People are very ready with counsel and criti-
cism, but one must use some discretion; no
doubt it is all well-meant, but one can even
have too much of a good thing. If we were to
heed all the criticisms etc., what would be the
result? It is difficult to define.
	One says our paper is too religious, another,
it is too monotonous; then we are told to let
politics alone--then polygamy-- "believe it,
live in it, if you wish, but do not write about it,
it is offensive." Pshaw! persons whose very
presence should be loathsome to virtuous people
may be received in society, may throng public
places of amusement and resort; but polygamy
is not a fitting subject for a woman's pen; it is
too indelicate. We must not speak of it, we
must not write about it; sincerity and convic-
tion are not sufficient pretexts; it is unpopular.
	The world were anxious heretofore to learn
whether women really believed in the prin-
ciples of plural-marriage and acted upon their
own free-agency, or whether they were kept in
bondage by the mere physical power of man.
And now when they have found voi[--] through
the medium of the press, and express their
opinions etc., the cry is, it is not in keeping
with this age of progression.
	A vast deal more might be said in this strain
but let this much suffice; "Ill-selected subjects
indelicate, weapons dull as lead." Never
mind, we are aware it is up-hill work, an inno-
vation upon the current system of morals; we
know this to be a HIGHLY RESPECTABLE AGE,
and we expect opposition, and many of our rea-
ders to condemn and criticise our "poor weak
hobbling lines," but we know the apostle said:
"There shall come in the last days, scoffers and
many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall
be increased."

[Column 2]
	Nevertheless, resolutely do we confess to our
candor and sincerity, and as we have tresspass-
ed in times past, we entreat your charity in
the future, to hear the whole budget of indi-
vidval confessions. Let any one tell truths of
themselves, and be consistent if they can.
Why then intrude such unrequired counsel?
We will leave the harvest of praise to those
who can cater to the public taste; but for us,
there is only frankness, sincerity and candor,
and a writer to succeed must possess some mor-
al courage, if not physical. And we have al-
ready become full aware that if we cannot win
applause, we can at least call forth criticism.


NOTICE.—By mutual consent and wish of
the citizens of Pine Kanyon, Tooele County,
near Tooele City, the name of their place has
been changed to Lakeview.


