			YE WILL SERVE.

	Would it not be well for us to stop a mo-
ment and consider this question? We
know we have the opposition of the world
to meet.
	I feel that the time has come for the sis-
ters in the Relief Societies to educate
themselves. Jesus said: "thou shalt love
the Lord thy God with all they heart." To
do this we will have to be prayerful and
humble before the Lord, and put on the
whole armor; we want knowledge, wisdom,
and understanding to cultivate the abilities
that God has endowed us with. We must try
and overcome this timidity which effects us,
exert ourselves to encourage one another, re-
frain from fault-finding, learn to be lenient
toward anothers' short-comings. We have
been slaves to FASHION, we must be so no
more. Let us be self-sustaining, and make
our own fashions; the Retrenchment So-
cieties were organized especially to set an
example and regulate the fashions in Zion.
Do we see it carried out as it should be? I
think not, not even in the Senior Associa-
tion. Our wants are few if we preserve our
tastes and habits simple, as they are by na-
ture. This is a day of choosing and we
must act upon our own agency and do the
choosing ourselves.
	Let us arouse and prepare for those things


that are coming upon us. We need a strong
determination to come out on the Lord's side,
we must be like the women of old, and adorn
ourselves with apparel made by our own
hands, and dispense with those superfluous
gew-gaws that only make us appear ridicu-
lous. Do not be ashamed to wear anything
made in Zion.
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated. When speculation and ex-
travagance are on the increase, women have
to be prepared for any fate; let us strive to
be honorable, and instead of pulling each
other down, let us strengthen and bless each
other. "Every weakness we overcome,
every temptation we gain victory over,
brings us nearer perfection. Then shrink
not at trials when we know they are sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path."
	I would say in conclusion, to all, old and
young, Reform! In dress, manners and de-
portment, and make ourselves agreeable
by adding comfort to those around us. We
must think deeply and think for ourselves.
Let our motto be onward, heedless of the
scorn of a jealous world. We have set our
mark high, let us not cease our exertions
until we have attained it.
