EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would give you a little of my
experience and some of my views about
the treatment of infants which is one of
great importance. I hear of so many little
children dying. The thought arises in my
mind what is the cause? I am led to think
it is a lack of wisdom in many cases on the
part of the mothers. They trust too much
to outside influences. I will tell my young
sisters the course I used to pursue when
my babies were sick. If I was alone with
them I used to lay my hands upon them and
with all the faith I had ask the Lord to re-
buke the Destroyer, and then I would kneel
down and ask my Heavenly Father to di-
rect my mind as to what course I should
take; and whatever came to my mind first,
however strange and simple it appeared, I
always acted upon it, and it never failed to
relieve my children. When our Heavenly
Father suffers the Destroyer to afflict our
children He knows best what will restore
them. I never administered any drugs or
spirits or soothing syrups in all my life. If
they were so sick that I had to lose my rest
I would ask the Lord to give me strength
and patience to bear with them. I would

[Column 2]
not allow any person to administer any-
thing to my child but myself, I think the
mother is, or should be the proper person to
administer to her own offspring. If she
will put her whole trust in God, she may al-
ways have faith; and if her child should be
taken from her for a wise purpose, she will
have the sweet consolation of having done
her duty, and that her child has gone to its
Father, pure and uncontaminated. I think
if our mothers would instill into the minds
of their daughters the necessity of attain-
ing and exercising faith in the ordinance of
the gospel, instead of using drugs and rely-
ing on doctors, it would be a strong bul-
wark against the power of the Destroyer.
Our infants have not knowledge enough to
have faith for themselves; therefore it is
the duty of parents to exercise it for them.
Every mother ought to study the nature of
her child, and be very careful what food she
takes when she is nursing it, she should
not gratify her own taste with anything
that will not agree with it, but should deny
herself. If the baby is not inclined to
sleep just when you want it, be patient and
do not give it anything that you do not
know the nature of; do not listen to anyone
that has not faith in the priesthood in case
of sickness. Let us seek to our Father in
heaven for wisdom, and he will not with-
hold it from us, if we are living our relig-
ion and in the line of our duty. My sis-
ters, into whose hands these few simple
lines may chance to fall, let me entreat of
you not to let them pass by unheeded.
When our children are taken from us, we
do not know the loss they may sustain.
Even if they sustain none, we do. I often
feel that the Lord is displeased with us for
neglecting our duties as we often do. We
trust too much to the arm of flesh. We are
told in the Bible, "they that know their
Master's will and do it not, shall be beaten
with many stripes." I thtnk it would give
me greater sorrow than to have my child-
ren taken away from me, If I knew I had
neglected any duty for them. The time to 
bless and comfort them is while they are
with you, it is too late when they are taken
away.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, March 8, 1876.


