SUPERFLUOUS WOMEN.

	In a recent lecture Mrs. Livermore
made the following pointed and sensible
remarks:
	All through the land, in homes and out-
side of them, I find these women, unwed-
ded, in the vulgar parlance of every-day
speech called "old maids," with a shrug of
the shoulder, and a slight dash of scorn, in
the finer language of sociologists and essay-
ists denominated "superfluous women."
They have been brave enough to elect to
walk through life alone, when some man
has asked them in marriage whom they
could have loved; with white lips they
have said "no," while their hearts have
said "yes," because duty demanded of
them the sacrifice of their own happiness.
Their lives have been stepping-stones for
the advancement of younger sisters; they
have earned the money to carry brothers
through college into professions; like the
Caryatides of architecture, they stand in
their places and uphold the roof over a de-
pendent household; they invert the or-
der of nature and become mothers to the
aged, childish, parents, fathers and moth-
ers, whose failing feet they guide gently
down the hill of life, and whose withered
hands they by and by fold beneath the
daisies; they carry words of cheer and a
world of comfort to households invaded by
trouble, sickness or death. The dusty years
stretch far behind them; beauty and come-
liness drop away from them, and they grow
faded and careworn; they become nobodies
to the hurrying, rushing, bustling world,
and by-and-by they will slip out into the
gloom—the shadows will veil them forever
from earthly sight—the great surprise of
joyful greeting will welcome them, and
they will thrill to the embrace of the heav-
enly Bridegroom.
	Ah, Stewart, who from your $100,000,000
of earthly treasures have given $1,000,000
to the working women in a beautiful home!
Ah, Peabody, whose funds were princely!
Ah, Vanderbilt and Drew, who have put
millions into the endowments of schools
and colleges—these poor women have giv-
en and are giving more than ye all. For
out of your abundance ye have given but
little, and these "superfluous women" have
given their all—themselves, with their lov-
ing hearts, with their possibilities of hap-
piness, with their dreams of the future!
Ah, four-starred Grant and Sherman, not so
heroic was your march through the fearful,
bristling wilderness, and from Atlanta to
the sea, as is the lonely passage of life made
by many an unmated, woman, except as her
celibate life serves to point a jest, or add
cynical pleasantry to a story. Ye were
stimulated by the cheers and prayers of a
nation, while the gaze of the world fol-
lowed you. But the path of these women
was through the hot shot of ridicule and sa-
tire.
	Let us give to women such training,
physically, industrially, intellectually, and
spiritually, that we shame the word "su-
perfluous," out of the vocabulary, as de-
scriptive of women.  And this will help
men, and elevate them, quite as much as
any special work which might be done for
them, and thus collective humanity will be
benefitted, and a higher civilization be pro-
moted, for

	The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink
	Together, dwarfed or god-like, bond orfree.—Ex.


BAD lu[-]k is simply a man with his hands
in his pockets and his pipe in his mouth,
looking on to see how it will come out.


