MISCELLANEOUS.

MARRIAGE.—In her evasive answer to the
Commons, in her reply to their petition to
her to marry, Queen Elizabeth employed an
energetic word, "Were I to tell you that I
do not mean to marry, I might say less than
I intend; and were I to tell you that I do
mean to marry, I might say more than is
proper for you to know, and therefore I give
you an answer, ANSWERLESS!"

	A GOOD story is told of a clergyman in
a Massachusetts town who forgot his notes
on a Sabbath morning, and as it was too late
to send for them, he said to his audience,
by way of apology, that this morning he
should have to depend upon the Lord for
what he might say, but that in the after-
noon he would come better prepared!

	RECENTLY an actor was married in Paris
whose name was M. Jaureguisilesbessadiere;
this reminds one of the princess who mar-
ried a Hungarian General, with a fright-
fully unpronounceable name; and when she
went out shopping she used to say in giving
her address, "I was (nee) born Princess of
Leon, but my married name I never could
learn it. Ask my servant he will tell you
what it is.


WE are apt to think this a pretty bad age
in which we live, but the age before it was
not altogether lovely. On the 8th of Octo-
ber, 1776, John Adams wrote to his wife in
Philadelphia: "The spirit of venality you
mention is the most dreadful and alarming
enemy America has to oppose. It is as ra-
pacious and insatiable as the grave. This
predominant avarice will ruin America, if
she is ever ruined. If God does not inter-
fere by His grace to control this universal
idolatry, to the mammon of unrighteousness,
we shall be given up to the chastisements
of His judgements. I am ashamed of the
age I live in."
	MR. Hamerton, in the Portfolio for March,
thus defines a lady: A lady is a woman who
clearly understands, and consistently practi-
ces, the refinements of a highly-civilized
existence; and the most real distinction be-
tween a lady and a woman who is not a
lady is, that one is more civilized than the
other, and more determined to preserve the
habits of high civilization, both in her per-
son and in those over whom she has au-
thority. These habits are not simply habits
of expense; it is cheaper to remain sober
than to get drunk, ann yet it is more lady-
like to be sober. It does not cost more
money to speak good English than bad, or
to be gentle than rude; yet a lady always,
from preference, speaks correctly and has
gentle manners.


[Column 1]
