HOME AFFAIRS.

	Several Reports from Societies, and other
correspondence are laid over for want of space.
We are compelled to repeat again, we must be
in possession of the real name of the corres-
pondent, before we can publish their articles.
	ON WEDNESDAY morning. April 19th, Presi-
pent Young with a small party, among whom
were several of the Twelve and some other
ladies and gentlemen, went on a special train
to Ogden, to be present at the dedication of
the Relief Society's new building. Arriving
at the new iron bridge across the Weber, most of
the party alighted and stood on the river bank
to get a good view of the bridge and see the
train cross and recross. Arriving in Ogden the
party immediately wended their way to the
building about to be dedicated, where were al-
ready assembled the President and officers of
the Relief and Retrenchment Societies; also
President F. D. Richards, Bishop Farr, Mayor
Herrick and others. The building is intended
not only to hold meetings, but to combine dif-
ferent departments of HOME INDUSTRIES for
women. The front is used as a store for straw
and other goods, the larger room at the back
for a work-room and for holding meetings. It
reflects great credit upon the sisters of Ogden;
both Relief and Retrenchment Societies we
understand having contributed towards its
erection and they anticipate clearing off all
encumbrances this year. The President of the
Relief Society expressly desired President
Young to preside over the meeting. After
singing President Young called upon Elder
Joseph F. Smith to offer the dedicatory prayer.
He then called upon W. C. Dunbar to sing "O
ye mountains high," &c., assisted by C. W.
Penrose. He then addressed the meeting,
speaking in the most commendable terms of
the efforts of the sisters in assisting to sustain
HOME INDUSTRIES, taking care of the sick,
practising economy, &c. His remarks were
concise, pithy and to the point, relating to the
practical lives of the Saints. He was followed
by each of the Twelve in succession, and Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, M. I. Horne
and Susan S. Young, each one bearing a faith-
ful testimony and expressed their sincere earn-
estness in the work of the "Last Days." After
meeting the party repaired to the residence of
Pres. F. D. Richards where a tasteful and
sumptuous repast was hurriedly partaken of,
and then went directly to the cars, arriving in
this city about half-past four, p. m. We wish
the good sisters of Ogden the most entire suc-
cess in carrying out their ideas for the promo-
tion of labor in all the departments of HOME
INDUSTRIES which come within Woman's
Sphere.


SPECIMENS OF fine Honiton and Cluny lace
consisting of black silk lace veils, white lace
collars, barbes, wide and narrow lace for trim-
mings, are now in my possession. These laces
are home productions, made by Mrs. L. W.
Crompton, Mrs. L. and P. Durant and Mrs. J.
Adams, of Morgan Co. This business is likely
to prove one of the most lucrative of our
HOME INDUSTRIES.
	I would also say I am agent for the book en-
titled "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists;"
of which book notice was made in WOMAN's
EXPONENT March. 15. Orders promptly filled
from Relief Societies, or private families
throughout the Territory.

	Address:	Mrs. E. Davis, 14th Ward,
							Salt Lake City.

