LETTERS.

		VIRGIN CITY, April 10th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are living in an isolated little pocket
in the mountains a long way from so called
civilization, and although we are deprived
of many of the advantages enjoyed in
large towns, still we are free from many of
the vices that those living in cities have to
contend with.  I often think there is noth-
ing to prevent us from living our religion.
Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion although there are but few active mem-
bers.  We are striving to do what we can
by our labor (for that is all we have to de-
pend upon) to aid in the upbuilding of the
kingdom of God.
	We had a Leap Year Party February 22d
for the benefit of the St. George Temple;
we cleared over expenses $26,50.  We have
but one poor family that has to be assisted,
but we can do much good and receive bless-
ings by attending the meetings.  There is
very much said about RETRENCHMENT
lately; as far as dress is concerned we have
but little to retrench from; we see but little
of the fashions unless we go from home, or
visitors come to see us.  I regret to say that
some of the prominent Retrenchment La-
dies have been dressed in a style scarcely
in keeping with the idea, and especially as
they are looked to as patterns of propriety
and consistency.  It seems that a woman
now-a-days to dress plain and neat without
superfluities, has to possess considerable
moral courage.  Why is it that among Lat-
ter-day Saints we look so much at the ap-
pearance?  How many good, moral, but
poor people are deprived of the pleasure to
be derived from attending social parties, be-
cause they will not dress beyond their
means?

[Column 2]
	I often think that the prophecies of Isa-
iah concerning the daughters of Zion are
being fulfilled as fast as possible.  How few
we see with a good head of hair.  The styles
in which it has been worn the last few
years, blown and tangled together, would
destroy the most beautiful hair.  God de-
signed it to be an ornament, and we should
not adorn ourselves with sea grass and oth-
er foreign follies.  My advice to young la-
dies is to do up their hair in a neat tidy
manner, with as few hair-pins and combs
as possible, don't let it be blown about and
broken up by the wind.  My hair is thick,
and has not been cut since I was a little
girl, and I never let it hang loose upon any
occasion.
	Peach and other trees are now in full
bloom, these with the green lucerne patch-
es interspersed, make our little town look
very pleasant, like a well stocked flower-
garden.  Last season we lost all our fruit
with the exception of grapes, by frost; we
are in hopes that it will be preserved this
season, as fruit is our main harvest.
	Wishing the welfare of Zion, I subscribe
myself your sister in the Covenant of Peace,
