[COLUMN 2]

ing you, sweet sisters, just as your spirits and
souls have appeared to me, FLOWERS. In old-
en times it was customary to use flowers for
letteres, to convey thoughts and feelings that
were too delicate for words. So I have follow-
ed in the footsteps of the ancients, and named
each of you a flower; and you must remember
that whenever I think of you, I shall associate
you with the pet name I have called you here.
I hope that each floweret in this bouquet will
be worthy to be transplanted in the garden of
Heaven.
	First we must have the rose. Queen of
flowers and most beautiful of all, our own dear
Zina, is our Rose. Next we must have some-
thing white, and so we will call our blue-eyed
Ida, the Apple-blossom, delicate and sweet.
Then Miss McLean, the Lily, pure and stately.
Then something bright next, our dark-haired
Louie, the scarlet geranium, brilliant and
beautiful. Annie the white camelia, Emily,
the fragrant Lilac, Emeline is the Oleander.
Now for variety, something unassuming yet
lovely and modest, with the most delicate per-
fume, the sweet English Violet, this repre-
sents May. After, a graceful, drooping,
white Fuschia, this we will call our dear sec-
retary. What is that flower that sends up
such a fragrant perfume, and is so modest
and retiring that you will have to search to
find its delicate blossoms? It is Flora, the
Mignonette. Close by we find the Queenly
Hyacinth; this is our Lute. Now for a bit of
rare Scotch Heather Bell, our Scotch lassie
Sarah. We have not named our Daisy yet;
this must be Elinor. I can scarcely decide
what to name our dark-eyed Ida, shall we call
her the Double Pink? Spicy, fragrant and
lovely. Her sisters are Honeysuckles. Belle,
Bessie, and Josephine are our Blue Bells. Our
lovely Georgie shall be the Pond-Lily, with its
wavy, velvety leaves. Nettie is the Pansy,
royal, purple eyed Pansy. Maime, is the
Orange Blossom, sweet and retiring. Fannie,
dear, sweet Fannie, is the Lily-of-the-valley.
Elvira, the Morning Glory. Georgie Clawson,
the Dahlia; Ruthie, our Japonica. Now we
must have some Verbenas, Lemon blossoms,
and Sweet-peas. These we will call Annie,
Maggie, Annie Smith, and our other Sarah.
There are a few more of the girls whose names
I do not know, but whose faces are perfectly
familiar; these we will call Hellotrope, Snow-
drops, and Forget-me-nots. What am I? you
will say, a bit of Green Fern to relieve the
brilliancy, and harmonize the coloring of love-
liness. Our dear President is the Golden Thread
that binds us together in love, harmony, and
unity; and the hand which has plucked us, and
which we hope will hold us through all time
and eternity is the Omnipotent hand of Provi-
dence.
	A.B.D.
S.L. City, April 20th, 1876.


