HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Croup.—A piece of lard as big as a
butternut, rubbed up with sugar; divided into
three parts and given at intervals of 20 minutes.—
B. C.
	Cure for Toothache.—Take a lump of lime as
large as a hickory nut, put it in a quart bottle of
water, and rinse the mouth with it frequently,—B.
C.
	For Sore Eyes.—Take two tablespoonfuls hon-
ey, teaspoonful salt, tincture of Balsam buds one
tablespoonful, teaspoonful gum pine. Make a paste
and put it over the eyes. A thin cloth to go on
the eyes first.—A Farmer's wife.
	To Cure White Swelling or-Scrofula.—Scrape
common [-]lder bark, bitter sweet mullen leaves—
equal parts. Boil together in a little water; then
put in a little golden seal. Stew all in fresh but-
ter and mutton tallow, equal parts, until well done.
Then strain and put back in pot, and put in bees-
wax and pine tar. Stew them all together. For
use, spread on a cloth and apply as a poultice.
	The Transfusion of Blood.—A Phila. corres-
pondent writes:—"I saw lately a letter written by
Charles Reade to a young lady medical student of
this city. She had written to him inquiring about
the case of transfusion of blood mentioned in his
novel, 'Griffith Gaunt.' He replied that the in-
stance was a real one, and gave the particulars of
the occurrence, also citing several authorities that
mentioned similar cases. He said that when
'Griffith Gaunt' first appeared he was assailed by
many members of the medical profession who did
not believe in the transfusion of blood, and accused
him of perverting the facts of science in his desire
to be sensational. He concluded by saying that
in defending his position he had become deeply in-
terested in the study of medicine, and desired his
correspondent, with whose professional aspirations
he had much sympathy, to keep him posted regard-
ing her researches on this particular subject, and
her general progress and success in her profession."
—Ex.
	Too Much Medicine.—Some one, writing on the
excessive use of medicine and the recuperating
power of Nature, says:—It would be utterly im-
possible to tell how many constitutions have been
impaired, how many digestions ruined, how many
complexions spoiled; and how many purses emptied,


through medicine. What is that you say—that a
stitch in time saves nine, and that the right medi-
cine quickly taken averts danger? Very likely.
I quite believe that. But in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred, where is the danger? And what is the
emergency of the case? Medicine is often the
precursor of after misery; and the poor constitu-
tion has to pay dearly for its medicinal fillip. The
wiser philosophy of the present day is gradually
delivering us from these potent perils. Nature has
a self-righting power within her; there is a kind
of vis-medicatrix in the physical frame. Treat
the body kindly; let as much pure air as possible
get to the lungs, and as much fresh water as possi-
ble be applied to the flesh, and as much healthy
exercise as duty permits be given to the muscles,
and early rising as circumstances allow be afforded
for the recruitment of the brain, and then medi-
cine will be a very avoidable affair.—Ex.


