=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

NUMBER 6.JUNE, 1 920 Latter-day I APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Saints Garments Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 20c extra to Canada or Mexico. These Approved Temple Garments are Knitted and made right here! our own UTAH FACTORY to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw It in the "Relief Society Magazine." a I Look for the APPROVED  No. 11 Light weight cotton $2.2S  Light weight, cotton bleached 92.50  00 Medium weight cotton 2.75 1 I 22 Medium weight cotton bleached 2.75 90 Heavy weight cotton 3.25 f  24 Heavy weight cotton bleached 8.7S  60 Extra white double, bleached mere 6.00  10 Medium weight -wool mixture 6.00  I 16 Heavy weight wool 6.00 1 I 18 Extra heavy wool 7.00  Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than  64-in., or 44-in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c  extra per suit, we make any size desired. §  Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of  shoulder down to inside of ankle. Orders for less than two garments not accepted. s  Infant Shirts — Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age.  MODEL I KNITTING Franklyn Christianson, Manager WORKS 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah  Phone Hy. 616  The way the demand for I Columbia Grafonolas is opening up there a likelihood of a shortage in January. The Columbia Patronize Neighborhood Grafonola is a Grocer real treat. Ask him for— I Tell us to send a Columbia  ROYAL BREAD I Grafonola to your home for a DAYS' FREE TRIAL. The bread that made his mother down $10 a month  I —a delicious loaf—  I light, appetizing, digestible  I Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE  A REAL self filling guaranteed to satisfy.  I "MAMMA Ask about it.  make a big pan of Doughnuts Write about it.  — let the kiddies eat them, and then ask them if good cooking can be accomplished with 64 Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah Extra Fine Table and preserving N. J. Duller, Proprietor SUGAR I Manufactured by the  I Utah-Idaho Sugar Company  State  CAFETERIA I READ I AND SODA FOUNTAIN "LoveBy and O. F. the Whitney Light"  $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  I BOOK STORE  Phone Was. 2444 ' 121 Main St. I The Book Store of Salt Lake City    I 44 East on South Temple Street Optical Company SALT LAKE'S LEADING OPTICIANS Established 25 Years Louis A. James Manager 11 EAST 2nd SOUTH (Walker Bank Bldg.) SALT LAKE CITY  Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints. 

CONTENTS JUNE, 1920 

Page

Just Trust Julia Farr 311
General Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 313
Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson 362
On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 366
Editorial 368
Child's Right to Happiness Ida Smoot Dusenberry 370

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main St.
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 6 Main St.
D. D. FELT CHEMICAL MFG. CO., Salt Lake City, Utah
GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East 2d South
KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, 64 Main St.
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson
ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City
S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City
STATE CAFETERIA, 121 Main St.
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East on South Temple
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City 

JUST TRUST. By Julia Farr. No matter how dark the way may seem, * There's a place for God's love to shine through. Your heart may be cold from life's sullen stream, — Then just strive your whole duty to do. And as you go on, just grope for the Right, Though the darkness your soul will dismay, No sorrow on earth is perpetual night, — God's love brings the Dawn of the Day. Though friends have deserted or have made you sad. Don't let bitter thoughts hold you long bound, For the future holds more than you ever have had, — Search for treasures;  they'll surely be found. The treasures of earth? No, they perish with men. But the pearls of great price are yours. And the light of God's love will lead you, — 'till then — You will find All on Eternity's shores. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII June, 1920 No. 6 General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The annual conference of the Relief Society was held Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3. 1920. The conferences consisted of four meetings and an evening entertainment. Two of the meetings for general and stake officers, were held on Friday in the Bishop's building, and on Saturday, two general sessions were held for all Relief Society workers in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. Between the two sessions for officers, a cafeteria luncheon was served to those in attendance, numbering 435. On Friday eve

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

the general boards. Miss Cameron urged Relief Society women to enlist in the Teacher Training classes. As long as we have class work in the Relief Society, we should make every effort to have our teachers as strong and capable as those in the other auxiliary organizations. Even if we cannot keep up with the best in these classes, we shall get great benefit from attendance. Mrs. Donette S. Kesler gave a most interesting and thorough report of the victory convention of the National American Women's Suffrage Association, and Congress of the League of Women Voters, held at the Congress hotel in Chicago. February 12 to 18. 1920. Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Mrs. Kesler represented the National Woman's Relief Society, as well as the Utah Suffrage  Association. One of the objects of our representation was that Utah might stand in her proper place as a suffrage state. 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REPORT OF THE N. A. W. S. A. HELD IN CHICAGO. Donette Kesler. The officers of the National American Woman's Suffrage Association, called the state auxiliaries, through their elected delegates, to meet in its fifty-first and final annual convention at Chicago, at the Congress hotel, February, 1920, from the 12th to 18th, inclusive. In the past, conventions have been held to disseminate the propaganda for a common cause, to cheer and encourage each other, to strengthen, organize, influence and to council as to ways and means of insuring further progress. This time they were called to rejoice that their struggle is over, their aim achieved, and the women of the nation about to enter into the enjoyment of their hard-earned political liberty. No longer necessary to fight for woman suffrage, the great work now is to prepare women to cast intelligent votes. To use, for the uplift of mankind, their power, brains and consciences. Women must be as independent in their party as men are in theirs, which is saying much. Women won't be welcome at the polls, but there is the place to go;  before going

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL. BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES. - - - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY - Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. 
Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth a Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily SI Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Donnette Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddington Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager...... JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah Vol. VII June, 1920 No. 6 High Prices The most popular topic of conversation is the high prices. We pay extravagant prices for everything we get, and we are all ready to scold about the cost of potatoes, sugar, flour and meat, dress goods and shoes. We don't seem to realize that when one man or one business raises prices everybody else follows suit. Indeed, that is the law of supply and demand. It is foolish to scold about it, the thing to do is to economize just the same as we would during hard times and then forget about it. The purchasing value of a dollar today is said to be thirty three cents, and when you estimate prices on all your staple articles you will decide that that is about right. Wages have risen almost with prices, and so everybody has money;  indeed, when prices are. high and money is cheap and plentiful everybody has work, everybody has money and practically every body spends it lavishly. That, too, is the law of supply and demand. When the financial crash comes, and Eastern financiers expect to see that conditions by next fall, prices will be lowered;  but when that time comes the prices of articles we have will not only be lowered, but stocks and bonds will fall in value, wages will fall, men will be out of work sooner or later, and we will have a period of hard times;  that also is part of the law of supply and demand. EDITORIAL 369 Some of the wise men in this Church do not expect much peace or real prosperity for some years to come, prophesying to the contrary. We are taught in the scriptures that we will have famine, pestilence, war and desolation. We have now a little breathing spell in which to get ready for some of these “Mow shall we get ready?'' of economy in the spending of our time and means. Old clothes are very fashionable just now — all over the country clubs have adopted overalls and wearing of cast-off clothing, as a protest against high prices. Those of us who are fortunate enough to possess good home-made suits and dresses can well afford to wear them now and be proud and grateful that we are so fortunate. We may trim our own hats. Many of the leading sisters just now are wearing home-trimmed hats and it is not unusual with some of us to go down to the ten cent store and get a little fresh trimming to trim up an old hat. Shoes are patched and worn honorably. We are rather ashamed to put on a new and extravagant dress or garment. We know how to do without much sugar, how to raise our own vegetables and to use substitutes for flour. We are perhaps the best equipped people to maintain ourselves along independent lines of any people on the earth. Let us not find fault with each other nor our business associates, for be sure we are all caught in the same net, and are all struggling together and raising prices together. Let us keep balanced, poised, and. above all. let us economize. If high prices can only bring L. D. S. women to habits of economy we will not regret present conditions. GUIDE LESSON SUGGESTIONS FOR JULY. It has been considered wise to present to our readers this month a detailed account of our late excellent Relief Society Conference. The addresses are given verbatim and as they cover all the work which we have been considering during the past season, it is suggested that we use them for our lessons. Our Relief Society members will enjoy these talks, and we suggest that they form the study part of your lessons for July, where meetings are held during that month. These talks may be read from the "Magazine" or given in lesson form, whichever is most acceptable to the various ward class leaders. We trust all will give them due consideration. In the genealogical department, we would suggest that you sisters unite with the Utah Genealogical representatives for a summer campaign in securing members for the Genealogical Society of Utah. A Child's Right to Happiness Ida Smoot Dusenberry, B. Ph. "What we act we are, and our lives are the revelations of our souls." It was September, and every part of nature seemed enticingly to call for admiration, bidding the awakening of a soul emotion the significance of which finds fulness only in the spirit co-mingling with the divine. With their hands filled with flowers in all their autumn perfection, the children were happily and proudly wending their way toward numerous school buildings. Being numbered among the expectant teachers, I spent the morning registering, and welcoming in my kindergarten, mothers and tiny little tots passing through their first and trying parental separation. The children endeavoring so hard to be brave, yet reluctantly and hesitatingly trusting themselves in a strange world among numerous, unknown, uninteresting human beings. Just as the clock pointed the hour of starting, a screaming at the outside door claimed my attention, and before I had time to cross the room, the door was hurriedly, almost fiercely, thrown open;  a child of four was violently pushed and landed screaming in the middle of the floor with the exclamation from a mother whose patience (let us hope) was the least of her virtues. "Take him, he's the meanest child in the world." Hesitating to add more fire to the flame my thoughts were numerous but words few. I remember making only one remark, "God didn't send him in this condition. I wonder who's responsible?" I asked that he be left in my care, and before the day was done I could see foundation for her unwise introduction. He was a beautiful physical figure, bound and tied in a warped deformed soul. Progress was slow, and at times my faith wavered, but I kept courage because experience and reason told me that wrapped in every fault lies concealed a germ of virtue. I knew no being had ever lived that did not carry with him a spark of the divine. Details of our first day's experience I shall omit. The child's whole attitude was one of fear and hatred. During the morning of the second day, with no warning, he raced from the room and ran down the path. I did not call him nor try to persuade him to return;  all I could do was to hope that he might reconsider, and if left alone, come back of his A CHILD'S RIGHT TO HAPPINESS 371 own free will, which he did, but only to accentuate his anger by throwing a brick through a large glass window that most mordaciously escaped injuring a dozen small children. During a conversational with the child's father, I made two requests, that whipping henceforth be omitted, and that the boy be sent to me the day following. When the time came, the father accompanied the child, and to my sorrow insisted that he apologize, I say sorrow, for there is nothing so conducive to hypocrisy as an act unaccompanied by a corresponding feeling. I am strictly opposed to forced apologies. For the lips to say what the heart fails to feel is a splendid harbinger of insincerity and deception. From this introduction and two years' close association with the boy, in this paper and others following, I send you the results of my observation. He knew nothing of the joy of real kindness and courtesy, because the information he had acquired had come to him through punishment rather than example. I have wondered how the mother would enjoy such an introduction to one she had never seen or known before. The child had a right to demand the same courteous consideration shown to grown persons. If the child talked to the mother in the same language and tone of voice imposed upon him, I can scarcely conceive results. Such a scene would never have happened had obedience been any part of his early life. This was only one exhibition of the results of inconsistent, unstable training. The mother had controlled according to her moods;  at one time she would strike, at another threaten, with no intention of doing what she said;  forbid one day, and sanction the next, passing hours between with talk, talk, talk, interspersed with fits of scolding, and all for the same offense. The result could be nothing other than loss of faith, gradually merging into a "don't of life. care" anarchistic spirit so detrimental to the progress We fail to inspire faith because we fail to deserve it. When you can win and hold a child's faith and confidence you have solved the problem of obedience, for if he trusts you he will obey you. Trust and faith come through requiring obedience only to consistent demands and by giving no arbitrary orders;  so in time he will come to know that your interference is not merely capricious and thoughtless but always results in advice for his own good. Obedience to law controls every part and phase of human life;  the child can be taught very early something of its universality. Every broken toy demonstrates the fact that 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE successful manipulation only functions according to the laws of its mechanism. Every phase of nature adds a silent sanction to its wisdom and truth. The stars in the heavens, the growth of the trees, the change of the seasons, all bear witness to the wisdom of this divine commandment. The parental offenses most frequent and detrimental to child growth and development are the thoughtless, capricious demands, often given for the sake of talking, for the parent seems to have no idea of being obeyed. First comes the demand which is repeated two or three times, then argumentation, justification, and explanation, each time in a louder tone of voice, then she threatens, and then she forgets it. The child continues uninterrupted, and the mother seems unconscious of having given an excellent lesson in indifference, disrespect and disobedience. But even in this there are glimmerings of providential light, for when interference is constant and ceaseless, if obedience was in the range of his physical and mental strength, which it is not, he would grow to be a weakling with no power of judgment or responsibility. Doing is the outcome of thinking and feeling, and when we force children to act in ways unrelated to their thoughts and feelings we are interfering with the orderly workings of the child's mind. Three-fourths of the things children are forbidden to do, are unessential;  and done, would bring no harm to anyone. The will does not thrive on what a child is prevented from doing, but on what a child actually does. What we need is fewer and wiser demands, more courteously and graciously given;  accompanied by a firm, unyielding decision of character, prompted solely by the conviction, "It is right," "It is just," and not because, "I want it." Obedience acquired under consistent direction is the bud from which loyalty, to both spiritual and material duties of life, will bloom. Fortunate is the child with such parental guidance, for it is the one road that leads to safety and happiness.  Relief Society Magazine Office has on hand the following  I bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, of  I which they will be glad to dispose at the prices  I quoted below:  IX 15 " " 1915, Cloth Bound @ 1.75  " " 1916, Leather Bound @ 2.00 - 3 " " 1918, Leather Bound @ 2.00  " 1919, Leather Bound  2.25 15c extra for postage  I All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine,  I Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah  "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream I Special attention given to parcel post candy orders  P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City   The UTAH Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and STATE NATIONAL Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. BANK The Melchizedek Priesthood The officers are  Quorums have adopted GOSPEL! always glad to DOCTRINE as a text for class meet customersstudy for the next two years. and discuss  It contains 700 pages, with a business plans f photogravure Frontispiece and with them. autograph of President Smith. Ouncers’ Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50  I Heber J. Grant, President  postpaid.  Charles W. Nibiey, Vice President f Get 15c. the “Gulde" to go with It.  William R Wallace, Vice President  Price Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cash  DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE IAlvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier  6 MAIN STREET  Samuel H. Keddington, Assistant Casl  UNDESIRABLE  HAIR GROWTH  I Can be removed permanently by using SUPER FULO I Something new and better D. D. FELT CHEMICAL MFG. CO. c xi than ordinary removers. Salt Lake City. Utah For the enclosed $1.00 please send SUPER FULO to Will not irritate or mark Name  I the skin. If unable to Street Citysecure from drug store, State?!.  11 write us Phone Hy. 60  I DICK I — TheEN Store SO Clean N' —S I j I For Fancy Groceries and Choice Meats One of our specialties-  I HAWAIIAN COFFEE  I Delicious - Try It  Three Phones Hy. 60 680 E. 2nd So.  ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM M, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH VOLUME VII $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c