FULFILMENT OF PROPHECY.

	I thought I would like to make a few remarks
through your valuable paper, for it seems as if all
the nations of the earth are arrayed against this
people; well it is what our Savior spoke of, He
said, "blessed are ye when people speak all
manner of evil of you;" So it is only fulfilling


the words of the Savior. We are told that we
have got to be a tried people, as gold seven times
purified through the fire. And another of the
ancient prophets has told us that the judgments
of the Lord have to commence at the house of
the Lord first; so we must look for it. The Lord
may let our enemies persecute us a little, and
when He sees they have done enough, He will
come out of his hiding place, and smite them as
with the besom of destruction; all the noise is
about our peculiar marital relations. Well they
must have something to fly at. I can say that
I am in that order of marriage and I thank my
heavenly Father that He ever gave me the priv-
ilege, to be counted worthy to embrace that
pure and holy principle; for I do know it is from
God, and I would not give it up for all the riches
in the world. My dear sisters, let us hold on to
that true and holy principle. I do not fear the
scoffs and frowns of a dark and benighted world.
I look for something more glorious and more
bright. As it is now, it was when the Jews
crucified our Savior,; He prayed for them, He
said, "Father forgive them for they know not
what they do," so we Latter-day Saints can pity
them for they know not what they do, when
they try to persecute this people.
	It looks as if the day was not far distant when
the prophecies of the Prophet Micah, will be ful-
filled, he states there in the 4 chapter 1st verse,
"But in the last days it shall come to pass that
the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be
established in the top of the mountains, and it
shall be exalted above the hills,and all people shall
flow unto it, and many nations shall come, and
say, come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
his paths, for the law shall go forth out of Zion,and
the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Well
my dear sisters, we are in the hands of the Lord
and so are they, if we are true to our religion
they cannot harm us; the Lord will take care of
his Saints. I pray God to bless all Israel.
