	HINTS ON MARRIAGE.

	This subject will never grow thread-bare by
frequent discussion, it ever holds a charm es-
pecially for the young. It is well to obtain a
correct understanding of every principle or
subject pertaining to our present and future
happiness, and the one I have chosen to discuss
is so important to our highest interest spirit-
ually, morally and phsyically,that there should
be no guess work about it; in this, only true
knowledge is safety. Ask any boy or girl what
they intend to do when they arrive at maturity,
and their truthful answer, unrestrained by false
teachings, would be, “I intend to marry and
have a home and family.” This natural desire
arises from a spark of the divinity implanted
in every breast and can only be, repressed by
the untiring efforts of that wily destroyer Sat-
an whose strongest forces are arrayed against
the unity and power of the family organization
and the increase of our species, more especially
where these conditions exist, under God’s direct
command and authority. Satan is exceedingly
jealous of power and he has, reigned supreme
for so many centuries that he does not intend
to resign his long usurped power without a long;
and fearful contest. But the love of home and
family is bequeathed to us by our heavenly
Parent, it is our lawful heritage and unless we
are successful in realizing pur rights in this re-
spect the heart can never be satisfied in time or
eternity.
	The dolls, playhouses and mimic attempts
at regulating household affairs in which every
little girl delights are but a representation of 
the ideal life of the wife and mother,whose deep
responsibilities should become a reality, and if 
woman fails to realize these cherished hopes
something is radically wrong. In proportion
as the power of evil increases, a disregard
for the sacred institution of marriage also in-
creases among the youth, and contempt for the
marriage obligations increase among the mar-
ried until this most sacred relationship will be 
overwhelmed by disunion and strife whose work
it is to tear asunder all family ties, leaving
broken bleeding hearts in their train, and only
among the despised Latter-day Saints will the 
true foundation of social harpiness and pros-
perity be found upon the earth; but in order to
realize this state, we must be guided by princi-
ples more perfect than those which have
wrought such dissolution. God has revealed a 
plan for establishing a new order of society
which will elevate and benefit all mankind who
embrace it. The nations that fight against it
are working out their own destruction, for their 
house is built upon the sand and one of the 
corner stones in the doomed structure is already
loosened through their disregard and dishonor
of the institution of marriage.
	The records of divorce have become truly 
alarming in all parts of the civilized world,
there must be a cause for every effect and 
“straw show which way the wind blows." Two
young people who are, or who imagine them-
selves to be truly in love, possessing.
		“Two souls with but a single thought
		Two hearts that beat as one.”
have not the slightest idea of a separation after
the law unites them. But is love all that is 
requisite to life long happiness? (and very few
indeed will acknowledge they marry without it)
Who is it that fill up the long list of divorces,
or, the still longer list of unhappy marriages?
It is those who, in the morning of life, looked
into the future with the fullest hopes resting 
secure in their ardent, and supposed undying
love, but as “Coming events cast their shadows
before,” so may we form a pretty correct opin-
ion of what the future will be, providing we are
guided by reason in connection with love, for,
“To be reasonable is to be happy.”
	Young Americans have conceived some very

[Column 2]
grand notions of freedom, and are liable to go
to extremes and consider lawful restraint, an
infringement upon their rights and such er-
roneous ideas will lead them to ignore the re-
straints and wise counsel which parents are so 
well qualified to administer after long and try-
ing years off experience, shadowed by many
heartaches caused by anxious and loving care 
for their children.
	But the most grievous of all mistakes is that 
of scorning or ridiculing the avise to ask God
for wisdom in this matter of such vital impor-
tance. The judgement of earthly parents
may prove fallible, confidence may rest secure
in Him who is the grand architect of our being,
and knows best, what can satisfy our soul’s
highest anticipations. Never, no never enter
into a marriage contract, however promising
and satisfactory it may appear, without first
seeking by earnest prayer and fasting if need
be a testimony from your Heavenly Father.
His love to the end can see while human love
and wisdom at best, is but short-sighted. Were 
all guided by this rule, would there be any oc-
casion for divorces? Love that is founded on
anything but intrinsic worth will never stand
the test of time and the vicissitudes of every
day life in this uncertain sphere, before which
all the romantic nonsense contained in novels
vanishes like pearly dew drops before the 
scorching sunbeams. Love though ever so 
strong and pure is not self supporting. It
must receivenourishment from other virtues,
prominent among them are chastity, honesty, 
intelligence and kindness; few if any natures 
are imbued with love sufficient to endure all
things purely for love’s sweet sake.
	However devotedly a girl loved a dishonest
man or one addicted to any evil habit, that 
love cannot save her from the natural conse-
quences of such things, but, on the contrary
only tends to intensify her anguish. The
man who is jealous and exacting as a lover,
will probably make a hard master and tyran-
ical husband. If he be shiftless and lazy, you
will, as his wife, have an excellent opportunity
to display your ability to support him and your
family.
	If the lover loafs arounf town, smokes chews
drinks even respectably (?) and swears, and
these things annoy you now, as a wife they will
wring you heart with misery unutterable, while 
your children will despite your good desires and 
influence, inherit traits of character to curse
themselves and others.
	“Be ye not unequally yoked together” religi-
ously for this is a fruitful source of unhappiness.
Accept no less virtue than you bestow, else con-
fidence the basis of all true harmony will be 
lacking. My young sisters, ever keep in mind
the fact that you will live to regret most heart-
ily the union with one who must steal you from
home and parents because he cannot honorably
claim you by reason of unquestioned merit.
	Young men be not satisfied with your sweer
heart’s parlor accomplishments. Were she 
always to remain in the parlor without an in-
terest outside of it mere accomplishments might
answer your purpose. But if it be a true wife,
mother and help-meet you seek, look deep into
the heart of her home-life, there you will find 
the true foundation upon which you are to con-
struct your future home of happiness. In all
things be honest, sincere and faithful and you
will not be compelled to exclaim as thousands
do to-day; “Oh! emptiness! Life what art thou
but a lie! Which I honored and greeted with
hopefulest trust.”
	But life may be devoted to the noble purprse
designed by our loving Creator, and we may at 
last feel satisfied with our labors here and the 
reward awaiting us beyond.
