EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A LOVELY bouquet of early Spring violets, the
gift of Mrs. Sarah Sears, (whom we most sin-
cerely thank.) are upon our table, the fragrance
of which fills the room. 

Fair violets! whose carly bloom
	Gladdens the weary heart;
Their beauty and their perfume
	Pleasure and joy impart.
They blossom lowly at our feet,
In modest grace and fragrance sweet.

	"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."—This little pam-
phet has been recently published in New York


City. The editor is a fair-minded, large-hearted
Gentile, an ex-United States official; one who
thinks, judging from his writings, Mormons have
rights, and who has taken pains to ascertain facts
and statistics, and he presents them to the people
in a candid, straight-forward manner. The
author enters somewhat into detail, and his
points are made clear, and proof given of cir-
cumstances as they actually exist. It is perhaps
at fairly written as any book could be by a non-
Mormon.

	"THE Goese of Ganderica" is a little work hu-
morously, written and quizzically satirical in
style. Some little boys might admire its inge-
nuity, without knowing its broad and compre-
hensive meaning and its relation to the "Mor-
mon Question" or the Utah problem. After all
there might be more in it than its size or ele-
gance of composition would indicate; but how
are we to know unless we read it? and

"As a little nonsense now and then,
Is relished by the best of men,"

the best thing to do is to buy the book and judge
for one's self. Ten cents is only a trifle, and it
may elucidate the Utah problem.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson has opened her office
in the Hardy building, upstairs, opposite Z. C.
M. I., where she will be pleased to see her friends
and patrons. Having devoted the past winter
to the practical study of the best methods of
treatment of Diseases of Women, and Diseases
of the Nose, Throat and Lungs, advocated and
practised by the most eminent surgeons and spe-
cialists in the Hospitals of New York, she is pre-
pared to give particular attention to these dis-
eases, and attend to all other matters pertaining
to her profession Sisters in the settlements de-
siring to study midwifery, in order to qualify
themselves to act in their respective localities,
can have an opportunity of doing so as soon as a
sufficient number are ready to form a class.


