SOCIETY IN THE EAST.

	Although I am not authorised to publish this
letter written to me by an old friend and play-
mate who is still living in the East,yet it shows
up life in "Christian" Monogamy in so true a
light that I can not refrain, though for her sake
the names are withheld.
						"March 5th. 1882.
"DEAR HELEN:
	"Your last letter bears the date Jan. 20th
1881 and is yet unanswered. I have had the
disposition to write you many times, but I am
a woman of cares and sorrow, and am possessed
of so little strength to do that I am compelled
to spend my hours waiting, "only waiting" for
rest, but in vain. I think of you often in these
days when the Polygamy problem is before the
people. What will result from it all, who can
tell ?
	"I think all these problems that come up help
to move the world. But dear me I see so
much to deplore in society here, that I oft feel
sick at heart, and ashamed of the perversity of
human nature. What the remedy is or should
be I am not competent to decide. But right
here there is plenty of "marital infidelity" and
accompanied with hypocrisy and lying to a
powerful extent. With me lying is "the sum
of all villainies." "Dare to be true, nothing can
need a lie, the fault that needs it most grows
two thereby."
	"Your son Orson said here that the only
argument against Polygamy was jealousy, and
believe me women suffer here more from that
cause. And it does seem to me that if monog-
amy marriage is or should be set aside for a rule,
and more liberty given in the social relations of
men and women, yet for those who have placed
themselves under vows of constancy each to the
other, that such should be true to their vows,
unless they get the consent of each other to
deviate therefrom.
	"I will give a little of our family trouble.
My brother married a girl in P——16 years
ago. For some six years there have been some
who have judged her to be false to him. He
has fought it bravely, and suffered much for
her sake, because he believed her innocent;
but the past few weeks here demonstrated be-
yond a doubt her wickedness, I say wickedness
for she has constantly avowed her innocence,
and has poured into my cars the story of her
wrongs, and she had such an air of injured in-
nocence and told her story so well, that I was
fooled, and I have never been called credulous,
but guess I have been. When the facts were
made known to me and I was obliged to yield,
I groaned and wept aloud. Such a long line
of hypocrisy and lying,sinks into insignificance
the adulterous connection. But say they, "the
lying always accompanies the adultery and is
always regarded the lesser crime." But, I
should be an honorable exception and would
shame the devil once, by owning the truth,
rather than lose my self-respect by lying.
Brother has a bill of divorce with the custody
of the children, two girls one thirteen and one
six, bright girls. There was no publicity given
to the affair as she did not contest, and he gave
her more money. Judge said it was a clear
case. She is in P——now and he is in
M.——*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	"I've been to church to-day,*	*	*	I hear
very little to satisfy, but think it better on the
whole than not to go out at all. Brother M—
was here this winter and read your letter; said
he did wish he could go to Utah. It will not
be strange if he does some time. I wish he
could meet Orson. When do you expect him
home?
	"I have received the papers you have sent,
and often see articles I wish you had; but you
are very well posted I see. It will not be very
strange if there is trouble here enough to dis-

[Column 2]
tract the nation from all thoughts of Polygamy.
This Conkling appointment seems too much of
a dose for Republicans. Men are treacherous
and selfish. Who can be trusted?	*	*	*
I have little faith in an overruling power and
am no spiritualist. I can easily understand
why you and I think so differently. My hope
is as good as the best. I entertain no fears."
	In her last letter before this she mentioned a
similar case in a respectable family there,whom
we were well acquainted with, though they
were not members of our church. Her parents
and my own were great friends and were
among the first who received this Gospel.
They were worth considerable property and
were among those who first became disaffected
and fell away. They joined the church called
Josephites some years ago and their daughter
who wrote this letter has seen so little of the
spirit of Christianity in them, or any other sect
professing it that she has lost all faith in an
overruling power. When a little girl she had
a severe attack of fever caused by taking cold
which left her a wretched invalid for life. We
have corresponded for years and in previous
letters she has made me acquainted with many
things, that prove to me how little happiness
there is enjoyed by those who have once pos-
sessed and then lost the light of this Gospel.
In the letter which she refers to I spoke most
plainly upon this subject and told her how
great and terrible would be the punishment of
parents who had led their children away from
the only true path, when they should meet them
before the Bar of God to give an account of
their deeds done here in the body, I told her
that she would then know (if not before) that
these things were true. I felt impressed to
speak these words though I did not know ex-
actly how she would receive them; and I con-
fess that I was surprised to hear that one of her
brothers after reading it had expressed such a
desire to come to Utah. But Latter-day
Saints can afford to be bold and fearless for
our weapon is truth and truth is mighty and will
prevail.					H. M. WHITNEY.


