CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	According to appointment and pursuant to a
joint resolution of the last Legislative Assembly
of Utah Territory, a Constitutional Convention
convened in the City Hall in this city on Mon-
day, April 10, at 12 m. A temporary organiza-
tion was formed, Daniel H. Wells, Chairman,
and Arthur Stayner, Secretary. Such business
as pertained to a temporary organization was
done, and a permanent organization effected.
President of the Convention, Joseph F. Smith;
Vice Presidents, L. E. Harrington and Edward
Dalton; Secretary, Arthur Stayner; Assistant
Secretaries, Junius F. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor
and Lyman Martineau; Chaplain, W. W. Cluff;
Sergeant at Arms, B. Y. Hampton; Messenger,
Milando Pratt. The Convention consists of
seventy-two delegates, sixty-nine gentlemen
and three ladies. Salt Lake County elected as
delegates twelve gentlemen and three ladies—
Mesdames E. B. Wells, S. M. Kimball and E.
Howard; also as alternate, Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
	On the second day it was decided that there
should be thirteen committees, to whom the
work should be assigned of reporting the several
articles which should be considered the ground
work of the proposed Constitution.
	The Articles are arranged in the following
manner: On Ordinance and Bill of Rights; On
Legislative Department; On Executive Depart-
ment;On Judiciary; On Municipal and other Cor-
porations; On Finance and State Debt; On Ed-
ucation; On Militia; On Taxation; On Impeach-
ment and Removal from Office; On Public In-
stitutions; On Boundaries; Miscellaneous Pro-
visions and Amendments; On Schedule and
Election Ordinance.
	It was decided by vote that the Chair should
appoint the several Committees.
	Third day the names of the Committees were
submitted and voted upon, and a Committee,
consisting of the Chairmen of the several Com-
mittees, was constituted a Committee on revi-
sion and consolidation, to which all reports
should be referred for compilation. It was also
decided by vote that several legal gentlemen,
members of the Convention, should be added to
this Committee, that there might be the best
legal talent at hand to aid in the work.
	On the fourth day some of the Committees
made a full report, and these were referred to
the Revision Committee, and others reported
progress.
	The fifth day all the remainder of the reports
were handed in and referred to the Committee
on Revision, and the Convention adjourned un-
til Wednesday, April 19, at two o'clock p. m.,
when it is expected the Compilation Committee
will make a final report to the Convention.


