WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN BOMBAY.

	A correspondent of the Boston Woman's
Journal writes:—
	Now that a special effort is being made to
secure municipal suffrage for women in Massa-
chusets, it may interest you to know that wo-
men in Bombay, British India, already have a
right to vote for municipal officers.
	Four years ago, my landlord, a well known
Parsee gentleman, was a candidate for member
of the municipal corporation, from the Mazagon
ward. He appealed to my friends to use their
influence to persuade me to vote for him, and
finally sent his agent to me with the necessary
papers and the blanks filled out with my name.
The agent assured me that I only needed to re-
gister my name at the Mazagon police station,
in order to become a legal voter.
	On the day of polling, one Parsee lady pre-
sented herself at the police station to vote for
this gentleman; and in the Girgaum ward one
Hindoo lady voted for the Hindoo candidate of
that ward.
	This was noticed in the daily papers, but
apparently did not attract much attention. At
that time any person, male or female, paying
taxes on property, whether as owner, trustee, or
agent, was entitled to vote for municipal of-
ficers. Since then the law has been changed,
making any person who pays a municipal tax
a legal voter.
	At the last election, one year ago, several
Parsee and Hindoo ladies, one Mussulman, and
one European lady, voted in their respective
wards. Considerable attention was attracted
to this by the daily papers, and a certain
amount of interest manifested itself, so it is
likely that when the next election comes
around, two years hence, a large number of
ladies will present themselves as voters.—Ex.


SUSAN B. Anthony appeared March 28, be-
fore the woman suffrage committee of the U. S.
Senate, and argued in favor of granting the
ballot to women.

	THERE is no reason, in our judgment, why
women should not be allowed all the rights and
privileges of citizenship. but at present the law
does not recognize them as such—Christian
Union.
	"THE Governor of Massachusetts has named
Mrs. Robert C. Winthrop a member of the
Advisory Board on State institutions for wo-
men; Mrs. Henry F. Durant is a Commissioner
on Prisons; Mrs. Anna B. Richardson a Trustee
of the State Industrial School."

	"The first magizine in this country conducted
solely by women was the Lowell Offering. It
originated in an "Improvement Circle" in one of
the churches in Lowell, Mass. Operators in the
Lowell mills were its first editors, from 1842 to
1849. Its first motto was;

The worm on the earth
May look up to the star.

The articles were all written by factory girls,
and printed as written. Miss Lucy Larcom
was one of its frequent contributors.
	"The whole Lowell factory community in
1840 was filled with the idea of self culture and
a better education." But when foreign-born
operatives came in, and labor was cheapened,
the whole tone of factory society was changed,
and the Offering had to be abandoned. But it
was a marked power for good while it lasted."


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
