SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.

	Conjoint Meeting held at the meeting house,
March 18th 1882, for the purpose of receiving


instructions from Sisters, Presendia Kimball
and Zina D. H. Young. President Hannah
Huntington presiding. Singing by the child-
ren, "Gather them into the fold." Sister Zina
said, I am well pleased to see so many smiling
faces before me, I have traveled a great dis-
tance since I saw you last, I saw a great many
fine looking children, they were dressed very
nice, but they were not clothed with the Spirit
of God, as these dear children are before me.
Those children do not know of the true and
living God as you do, nor do they enjoy his
blessings. I visited a blind assylum; in one
room I saw a number of young girls learning
to do fancy work, in another room were boys
busy studying their books which have raised
letters, they were all blind but apparently hap-
py. Now little children how thankful you all
ought to be, for your eye-sight. . Dear children
learn to be courteous and kind toward one an-
other, treat elderly people with great respect.
If you wish to become great men and women
and please your Heavenly Father, you must do
as near right as you can; do not use tobacco
tea or coffee. But above all honor and obey
your parents, and God will bless all of you.
As my sister and I are called away to Provo
our visit will be short with you to-day. But I
feel to say God bless you all.
	Sister Kimball addressed us on educating
our minds with the principles of the Gospel.
Boys I exhort you not to use tobacco, for the
word of God tells us, it is not for man; if you
want to be pure and white, drink neither tea
nor coffee. Children be kind and loving to-
ward all, especially the aged, you will then be
prepared to take our places, for we will soon
pass away. Be faithful and you will live to
see the coming of the Son of God, if you have
faith you will stand in that day and help to
build up his kingdom. Honor and obey your
parents, and teachers, that you may be pure
for the pure will be saved, when the wicked
shall be destroyed. God bless you all and
preserve you from harm and danger is my
prayer.
	Sister Zina then exhorted the children to be
industrious and learn to do all kinds of work,
that they might be useful men and women, said
be neat and orderly, in all you do for there is
order in the house of our heavenly Father. I
have a petticoat to show you that my grand-
mother spun, wove and made for my mother
when she was a baby, it is ninety-six years
old.
	Children if some of you are clothed better
than.others do not make fun or despise them,
but do all you can for their good. Love to do
good at all times. God bless you all.
	Brother Kelsey felt to endorse all the sisters
had said, Singing by the children "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Benediction by Wm.
H. Kelsey.	MARTHA J. REYNOLDS, Sec'y.


