TRUE CHARITY.

	Do not we read in holy writ that the Lord
is angry with none, excepting those who do
not acknowledge his hand in all things? This
may be done in many things, and we fre-
quently find it takes a little time patience and
experience to learn how to apply the rule to
ourselves. And now since we have confidence
that this is the word of the Lord, the question
arises how shall we acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in the Edmund's bill? When the
news came that the Edmund's bill was to be-
come a law, my first impressions were directed
to the passage we find written in Revelations
chapter 30, verse 19th. "As many as I love
I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore and
repent." I think these measures when put in
practice will arouse our zeal, and when we pre-
sent ourselves to our Father in heaven in
humility, He will bless and comfort all those


who trust in Him. Then we will acknowledge
his hand in this, as well as everything which
has transpired towards building up his king-
dom upon the earth. I well remember in my
youth when repeating my Sabbath School
lesson, how surprised I was, that the Lord
should ask us to love our neighbors as our-
selves, which was almost impossible; and again
the Savior said you must "love your enemies
bless them that curse you and pray for those
who persecute you, bless and curse not.;' I
could not help asking how He could require
such obedience as this; when He who created
us knew that with our dispositions and tem-
peraments this could never be accomplished.
It is impossible in our own strength to do this.
	But now I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when I have learned what the
gift of the Holy Ghost will do to educate
the human heart. When under that influence,
you will love all the creations of God our
Father, you will give every thing its proper
value, and also its proper place, you will have
fervent charity, even that which the Apostle
Paul spoke of, when he said, "though I give
all my goods to feed the poor and my body to
be burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." You will not hate your enemies but
pity their blindness. For they believe in the
Savior of the world, and yet will fight against
those principles which He has designed them
to obey, that they may be qualified to come in-
to his presence, and also bring a reign of peace
upon the earth; and do they object to this? Do
they prefer war and strife? It often looks
like this. I am satisfied they are as blind as
the Jews were when the Savior made his first
appearance upon the earth. I would most
earnestly pray that the scales may drop from
their eyes, as did St. Paul's, when Ananias
prayed for him. This will be the case too I
feel assured to say, of all those who are as
truly anxious as St. Paul was, to do the will
of God, our Father, and their Father too; for
we are all the children of one Father. Such
persons will rejoice in the light of the Gospel
for it is the true light, (as St. John says) which
lighteth every man which cometh into the
world. But on the contrary the light of the
world dazzles and blinds, and they also wish
to dazzle others. This seems to be their great
object.			MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS OF A GENTILE LADY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:—To the Mor-
mon women, all who have so kindly and po-
litely replied to me, I send greeting and good
will. I will not attempt to name them, fearing
one name might be overlooked and the person
seemingly slighted. Believing them all to be
trrithful, pure-hearted, intelligent, Christian
women, I accept their affirmations as to their
contentment, in the life they have chosen, or
accepted. The Mormon question is a very in-
teresting one to me, and when the Mormons say,
as one or two did in replying to me, that, “We
mind our own buisness, and only wish to be let
alone.” I hope they do not mean to say to me,
“Mrs. Scott please to mind your own business,
and ask no more questions.” I consider it the
business of every intelligent, rightminded wo-
man to ask questions about the Mormons and
every thing else, in this day of licentious-

[Column 2]
ness and corruption. A woman is to be des-
pised, who calmly sits down, folds her hands,
shuts her eyes and closes her ears to everything
beyond her own home circle. She can do
so, if she has no sons or daughters to go forth
into the world. But she dare not, if she reads
the daily papers and has a child growing up to
manhood or womanhood.
	I honestly own to you that I do not believe
in Mormonism but neither do I believe the half
of what is said against it; and wish sometimes
that I could “mind my own business and not
concern myself at all about it.” But am a sort
of restless bumble-bee, and reading so much in
the newspapers against it, stirs me up until I
want to stir up somebody else.
	I went to hear Ann Eliza lecture; my soul-
full of enthusiastic indignation against the
terrible set of people of whom I had read, and
from whom she had escaped. I heard her de-
liver the same lecture twice, and thought, as I
listened to her, “well, if I had escaped from
something so terrible as the papers say Mor-
monism is, I would not get up and speak a
piece, written and revised by Gentile friends.
I would tell something! I would stamp my
foot, and shake my fists at the audience, and
impress them with a sense of the terrible doings
of the wicked, depraved people from whom I
had escaped. Why two thirds of the women
in her audience could have told a sadder tale
of domestic misery than she related.
	Her lectures—first caused me to question the
truthfulness of the statements concerning the
wickedness and depravity of the Mormons.
Then I came across the Exponent, and read
in it, only of good works being done; no ac-
counts of murders, suicides or evil doings.  Its
pages were as pure as the heart of a little child;
the poetry in it, true poetry; fragrant with faith
in God, and love toward each other. More and
more I felt convinced that, those Mormons are
not all bad, and I determined to inquire into
the matter to see if these things were so.
	If you have no objections we will drop the
subject of polygamy for the present time, and
talk of other points of your belief. Is every
individual member of your church as full of
faith in God as yourself?
	The implicit religious faith you women seem
to have, will, I fear, never be given me. My
heart is full of unbelief skepticism, or Ingersol-
ism. Yet I sincerely wish to have faith.  But
questionings and bitterness overcome me when
I see the miseries of life, the sufferings of inno-
cent ones and the prosperity of the wicked.
	My very soul abhors the doctrine of future
rewards and punishments as preached.
	What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief on such
matters? Romania B. Pratt says in her letter,
to the EXPONENT, “that you have not made
yourselves well enough known, that there might
be safety in having a few sentinels stationed on
the towers afar off.” So perhaps it would help
both you and me, to talk of the real belief of
those terrible Mormons.
