APRIL CONFERENCE.

	The Annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints commenced
on Thursday, April sixth, at 10 o'clock a. m., in
the Tabernacle, in this city, President John Tay-
lor presiding. The Conference continued regu-


lar meetings twice a day, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
and closed on Sunday afternoon, April 9. The
attendance was very large, notwithstanding the
weather during a greater part of the time, was
very stormy and disagreeable. People from all
parts of the country came in to attend Confer-
ence, and the streets presented an unusually
busy appearance, even for Conference time.
	The instruction given by those who spoke to
the people during the entire four days, was cal-
culated to encourage the Saints to persevere in
well doing, and if possible endeavor to reach a
higher standard of excellence in the practice of
the principles of the holy religion which they
had embraced. The people were counseled to
fear God and keep his commandments, to remain
true and faithful to their integrity, and manifest
a spirit of peace and good will towards all man-
kind.
	There were present on the stand Presidents
John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith, Apostles
Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Moses
Thatcher, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith
and Coun. D. H. Wells, Presiding Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Patriarch John Smith, and some
of the Seven Presidents of Seventies, among
them Jacob Gates, of St. George. The Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were in their accus-
tomed places.
	The meeting on Sunday was perhaps as nu-
merously attended as any Conference of the
Church has ever been, the house being densely
packed, and many hundreds having to go away
who could not find seats nor comfortable stand-
ing room. The music and singing on each day
were excellent, the solos by Miss Laura Nebe-
ker and Miss Agnes Olsen exceedingly well ren-
dered. Prest. Taylor, occupied the time in the
afternoon, Sunday, and during the service the
people followed Prest. Taylor in three ringing
Hosannas and Glory to God and the Lamb for
ever and ever. Amen. It was a time long to
be remembered by all present.
	Sunday evening a meeting of the Y. M. M. I.
A. was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall;
the Y. L. M. I. A. was also represented. Prest.
W. Woodruff presided. Several of the Stake
Superintendents from the different counties re-
ported the condition of the Young Men's Asso-
ciations in their respective localities. Sister
Nancy A. Clark represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Davis Stake, Sister Cluff the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Utah Stake, Miss Mattie Horne, of the Cen-
tral organization, represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake. Elmina S. Taylor, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
made a few interesting remarks upon the bene-
fit of these organizations. Prest. Joseph F.
Smith spoke a short time, alluding to the sub-
ject of buying from our friends, and so forth.
	Elder Junius F. Wells urged the necessity of
a uniform system of roll books for the use of the
Associations.
	The meeting was a very business like and satis-
tactory one. Reports show that the Associations
are in excellent condition of progress.


