NOT A CITIZEN BUT A WOMAN.

	I see by the latest news from the Capital
that senators and representatives have even re-
sorted to the most palpable falsehoods in order to
deprive Mr. Cannon of his seat in Congress, now
as for the misrepresentations of priests and peo-
ple who make a business of lying for money, we
could not waste time and paper in refuting their
many false statements relative to Mormon peo-
ple; but when a man representing a whole state,
elected to Congress by his constituents will get
up before the eyes of all nations and misrepre-
sent a people because it is popular, when that
people can prove that those false statements
made and published to the world are based upon
prejudice and misrepresentation, I think it is
time the sons and daughters of the patriot
fathers were investigating such matters. But,
says the lordly senator who are you, what do
you know about Mr. Cannon?
	I am a daughter of the Veteran Fathers! the
blood of freedom courses through my veins; I
am a legal heir to all the rights guaranteed by
the Constitution of our once free and happy
country, therefore I am not afraid to speak when
I see those sacred rights trampled upon by un-
principled representatives and let those who
are ignorant of the facts, know that "He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it" is what
the wise man Solomon calls a fool. My Brother
Thomas L. Greer who was wounded in the war
with Mexico and never received his pension be-
cause of his identity with the Mormon Church,
(which is the true Church of Christ) received

[Column 2]
from the officers of the War department in
Washington a copy of the honorable discharge
of our grandfather John Greer, who fought for
the liberty we claimed in the days of the im-
mortal Washington.
	The writer of this article, lived neighbor to
Mr. Cannon for twenty-five years, and testifies
that he is an honorable man, a man that walks
uprightly before God, and if she had ten votes
would rather give them to sustain him than to
give one to elect a man to that high and sacred
responsibility who had no regard for honor nor
for virtue; who can be bought and sold for hire,
who seeks to blind the eyes of his constituents,
and persecute the innocent and oppressed for
the sake of popularity, when he knows it is
wrong. The Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith,
said if the United States Government consented
to the shedding of his blood and mobbing and
driving the Saints from Missouri that they would
have mobs to their hearts content. They have
done this, and since he was martyred, there has
not only been a devastating war, causing untold
sorrow to human hearts, commencing at South
Carolina according to his prediction, but two
Presidents have been martyred a thing never
known before, in the history of the American
Nation until the administrators of the Govern-
ment refused to protect the people called Mor-
mons in their Constitutional rights. Now let
these law-makers deny Mr. Cannon his seat in
Congress for no other cause but his religious be-
lief: then down, down goes the government.
God withdraws his aid, and they cannot hold to-
gether because the principles of dissolution are
planted in the heart of the Nation. I venture
to say if Gen. Washington should appear in the
Halls of Congress to-day and say, let him that
is without fault cast the first stone at Delegate
Cannon, he would be left alone to maintain that
most sacred and heaven-born instrument the
Constitution or Declaration of Independence. If
such a bill as that of Senator Edmund's becomes
a law to disfranchise the citizens of Utah
we would say take down the standard of liberty
no longer call this a Republican Government, fold
up the flag of our beloved country that so proudly
waved over the land and sea to beckon all
nations to come to the "land of the free," and
let that sacred emblem, the Goddess of Liberty,
hide or bow her head in shame and bathe her
cheeks in tears for the unjust administration of
her country's laws, and the cruelty of its wrongs.
				E PLURIBUS UNUM.
	Arizona.


