SNOWFLAKE ARIZONA.

	The first Quarterly Conference of the East
Arizona Stake, of the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Associations, was held at
Snowflake Sep. 23rd, 1881. President Wil-
mirth East presiding. On the stand were Pres-
ident Jesse N. Smith, Bp. John Hunt, Jesse N.
Perkins, Br. Fitchen, and others. W. East
gave quite an interesting report of her visit
throughout the Stake, in the interest of the R.
S. and Primary organizations; spoke of the
death of Counselor Kartchner, and gave many
testimonies of her faithfulness as a Counselor,
not only the R. S. of this place, but also in
Pangnitch; and at President Smith's sugges-
tion the vacancy was filled by Mrs. Ellen Lar-
sen.
	Sister Elizebeth Hawkins Prest. of the P. A.
said, the most important duty was, the training
of our children, teaching them to pray, and to
get up and bear their testimony while they
were young.
	President Smith also made some very en-
couraging remarks, acknowledging the labors
of the sisters, and was pleased to have these
Stake organizations effected. He then set
apart the presiding board of the P. A., which
had previously been unanimously sustained, at
the Quarterly Conference June 26th. Reports
of all the Associations were encouraging, the
Stake and local officers were presented and
sustained.
	Conference adjourned to the 23rd, of Dec., to
meet at this place.
	Minutes of the second Quarterly Conference
of Eastern Arizona Stake, of the R. S. and Y.
L. M. I. A., and Primary held at Snowflake
Dec. 23rd 1881. W. East presiding.
	Minuets of previous Conference read and ac-
cepted. The organiztions of this Stake, nine
branches of Relief Society, five Y. L. M. I. and
Primary Associations, were doing well. W.
East said: the duty of officers is to lead out and
set an example before the organizations that
they may be awake to their duties. If the sis-
ters will step forth and fill their positions, God
will help them; don't say that you are not
qualified, God will qualify you,
	Apostle E. Snow said, when the brethren are
called by the Priesthood to fill positions, if they
neglect to magnify their calling, and seek the
Lord for the spirit of their office, that spirit
will rest upon another;" and this will apply to
you my sisters, History fails to give an ac-
count of the organization of women, until re-
vealed in this dispensation by Joseph Smith.
Of a truth we can sing "We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet." Counselor Ruth Rogers was
called upon to give a verbal report, said, she
had attended most of the meetings; had counted
as many as fifty-six at the P. A., and thought
the President and Counselors of this Ward de-
served praise. Hoped there was not a family
that did not teach their children to pray. The
first principle that we should teach them
was, that they have a Father in Heaven; that
will hear and answer their prayers. Stake
Pres. of the Y. L. Ida Hunt, desired to have
the spirit of her calling, judging from the re-
ports the Associations were in a flourishing con-
dition; was glad they had never refused when
called upon. The officers of the different or-

[Column 2]
ganizations were sustained. Adjourned until
2 P. M.
	Afternoon session commenced by the usual
services of singing and prayer, after which W.
East said, there was one item she wished to pre-
sent before the conference, that was sending for
the "Questions and Answers," published by
Sister E. R. Snow Smith, in the interest of the
Primary organizations. Ida Hunt then read
from the EXPONENT the financial and statistical
report read at the October conference of 1881,
showing what had been accomplished by the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	W. East continued, you can see by this re-
port what can be done by the sisters; thanked
the brethren for having assisted in the erection
of the Society Hall, the first one built by the
Relief Society in Arizona.
	President Smith said; I realize from the re-
port that has been read, that the R. S. is be-
coming a power in the land; must confess that
the statistics were a little suprising, felt that
the R. S., were in good hands; desired the
brethren and sisters that could, would write
for the Instructor: appealed to the sisters to
assist in establishing a system of refinement
and good manners especially in the ball-room,
was opposed to round dancing and hoped they
would not indulge in it. Sister East recom-
mended that we sustain the counsel given by
Prest. Smith. Conference adjourned to meet
at St. John's March 24th, 1882.
	A general invitation was then given to meet
at the Society Hall in the evening at 7 o'clock,
to celebrate the Prophet's birthday. The
house was well filled; after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, President Jesse N.
Smith, made a few interesting remarks, then
called for those who knew the Prophet while
living, among whom were S. H. Rogers, Bp.
Nobles, Bp. Owens, John Oakly, Nathan Ten-
ny, and others who are living witnesses and
who testified to the divinity of his mission, and
the great work that had been accomplished
through his instrumentality and of the bless-
ings we enjoyed through obedience to the same.
Wilmirth East, President; Lorana P. Rogers,
Sec'y. P. A. Eastren Arizona.


[Column 1]
