THE RIGHT TO ASSEMBLE.

	It is a fact very generally conceded that the
Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people. The
events which have transpired from time to time
in the history of the Church from its very com-
mencement, have also been of a peculiar charac-
ter. There is little need to recapitulate the try-
ing scenes through which this people have been
called to pass. Our readers and this great gov-
ernment are familiar with a generality of the
facts, and know how manfully the Saints have
struggled against accumulated difficulties of the
most aggravating kind. Congress has seen fit
to heed the popular clamor, and has passed pros-
criptive laws against this peculiar people, who
had thought themselves far enough away from
the great centres of civilization to live their pe-
culiar religion, and abide in peace and safety
"under their own vine and fig tree," having
periled their lives to find an asylum in the wil-
derness, and wrested the land from barrenness
and made it fruitful and desirable for the habita-
tions of men, and "for life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness," which they considered their
inalienable right as American citzens.
	The present peculiar position of this people
seems to demand the most careful and earnest
thought of every individual, and the best
and most intelligent expression of the same
in the most impressive manner, to represent
the whole body of the people. The Consti-
tution of the United States guarantees to all, the
right peaceably to assemble and petition the
government for redress of frievances; it also
gives to the people of all Territories the right to
f[-]ame a Constitution and apply for admission into
the Union of States. The very best method of
getting an expression of the sentiments of
a whole people is by means of a Convention.
The people in the several counties elect their
own delegate[-], those whom they desire to have
represent them, and those whom they consider
capable of doing so, with due reference to judg-
ment and ability.
	THe enemies of this people have spoken long
and loud, by means of the pulpit and the press.
Congress has hearkened and heard, and in an-
swer to thier pressing and overwhelming torrent
of entreaty, has decided to enforce such legis-
lation as seems to a free born citizen unjust and
oppressive.	In view of this, and of positive
knowledge of the numerical strength of Utah to
admit of its becoming a State, is it anything
strange or wonderful that the people should look
upon it as their right to meet in convention and
frame a Constitution, with a view that Con-
gress may give the matter due consideration
when the facts are presented before them? And
even though admission were denied, the people
will have the satis[-]action of knowing that the
effort has been made, and it will stand forever to
their credit. It is the privilege of all people to
xercise their rights in harmony with the laws


of the country in which they reside, and there
are no people under the sun more loyal to the
Constitution of their country, none who adore
with greater reverence the stars and stripes, than
the Latter-day Saints. And they have no need
to fear. God is at the helm, and there are still
many honorable and wise men in the land, who
desire to see the laws of the country righteously
administered, and who will not sanction oppres-
sion, and injustice to the weak and defenceless.
This people, as well, as this great nation, are in
the hands of Him who notes even the fall of the
sparrow.


