THE FIERY DRAGON.

	A lowly child of heavenly birth smiled in
its innocence and purity. Truth dwelt in its
heart and many loved it: but as it grew and
increased in strength and power, the majority
hated it; and sent a fiery red dragon to destroy
it. Angels guarded it, and God Himself had
foretold it should not be destroyed. In vain
the fiery dragon tried to swallow the child, for
every attempt was foiled, and the object of his
wrath fled to the borders of civilization, hoping
to secure a safe retreat. For awhile the serene
maiden Peace waited upon it, but the dragon
followed, drove Peace away and tried again to
swallow her precious charge. God and his
angels came to the rescue. Once more the
bloody monster was baffled. The child fled to
the margin of a wide and placid river, and
found a resting place. Peace came again with
her blessings, and prosperity attended her foot-
steps. The growth of the child was fast. Not
many years passed away ere his bitter enemies
sought to put him to death. With cries of
treason they sent the Dragon to find him.
Again the child of truth was sought and rushed
upon fercely—his friends murdered and again
he fled; fled to the fastnesses of the mountains,
where none but Indians roamed the desolate
hills—the wolf sought his prey, and the
parched earth called for water. Under the
guidance of his hand gardens and farms, vil-
lages, and towns, cities and hamlets sprung up
as if by magic. The Indians became more
cizilized, flowers lifted up their heads and
breathed delicious perfume. Industries of
every description were fostered and the moun-
tains rang with the echoes of joy. Peace
settled with him. The very atmosphere told of
her presence. Grown to manhood was the
child, lovely as ever, wise and strong. His en-
emies are maddened and with cries of furious
rage send their messenger the dragon to swallow
him up. The throat of the dragon is too small.
He will choke himself before he can accomplish
the deed, and persecution will be glad to hide
himself in dismay. While the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints will continue to in-
crease in strength and power. The heaven
above is blessing it; invisible angels are around
it, the Lord himself smiles upon it, and what
is there to fear?		EMILY B. SPENCER.


