UTAH STAKE PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Primary Conference held in
Provo March 2nd, 1882. Meeting called to
order by President Zina Y. Williams, singing
by the children, and prayer offered by Anna
K. Smoot. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were then read and approved. After
which the President expressed her delight in
seeing so many laboring for the advancement
of the children; and instructed the Presidents
how to report.
	Verbal reports were received from teh follow-
ing: Mary Farrer, First Ward, Provo, Sarah
Goodman Second Second Ward, Hester Beebee, Third
Ward, Mrs. Snyder, Fonrth Ward; Hannah
Huntington, Fifth Ward, Springville, Sister
Williams, First Ward Springville; Sister Fraser,
Santaquin; Sister Felt, Pleasant Grove; Sister Davis,
Lehi; Sister Booth, Alpine: Sister Wilcox,
Cedar Fort; Sister Snyder, Fairfield.
	The President had been well pleased in hear-
ing as favorable reports from the various so-
cieties.
	The meeting was then given over to Sister
Louie Felt, who desired to hear from the child-
ren. Questions from the Bible Questions and
Answers were answered by the children of the
First Ward, Provo; a song from Miss Jones,
Second Ward, and recitations from Emma
Johnson, Lydia Wilson, Ervin Pratt and By-
ron Doolin Third Ward; Lizzie Chesly, of the
Fourth Ward answered questions from the Bible
Catechism. President Louie Felt related in-
stances where children had exercised great

[Column 2]
faith in God; and had aided missionaries by
their prayers and pocket money, claiming the
blessings of God for so doing. Prayed that
their Heavenly Father would bless them and
keep their minds pure from evil influences.
Hoped they would never forget to pray.
	Sister Mary Freeze spoke of the injurious
effect of tea and coffee. Wished the children
to obey their parents, presidents and teachers,
that they might learn principles of mortality
and virtue.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor had been exceed-
ingly well pleased in seeing the bright children
and hearing the songs, recitations and ques-
tions answered. Prayed God to bless the
children; and their President, Zina Y. Wil-
liams as well as those who were laboring in dif-
ferent parts of the County. Asked them to
remember the instructions given.
	Singing, "Joseph's First Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Presendia Kimball.
			SARAH E. CLUFF, Stake Sec'y

