BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Mother!—That name is so universal, that
the glory the grandeur and the mighty respon-
sibility of that sacred name is often forgotten!
It is a name next only to that of God!
	In the ritual of the Church of England in
the baptism of infants they have sponsors,
who are called god-fathers, and god-
mothers; and since I have seen a greater light
and comprehend a more perfect order I have
often pondered on those beautiful titles, and
felt there was a truth, and a principle in them,
not understood by those who used them; but
the sponsorship is a noble provision, and in
many instances, such have taken upon them-
selves to literally fulfill it to children be-
reaved of their parents. But the mother, and
her duties fill my thoughts at the present mo-
ment, and let it be borne in mind that I am not,
writing theoretically—but that which I gained
in a deep and practical school, commencing
when only eighteen years of age; I advance
nothing at any time, but what I know to be
verily true!
	The mission of the mother to bear—and still
more to rear children, is to those who realize
the responsibility, an almost overwhelming
novitiate and none can effectually accomplish
it, unless they seek for strength and ability
from the Father—God: To rear children that
shall be a blessing to themselves and all that
they are associated with, is indeed a mighty
achievement! Education must begin with the
mother; even in the ante-natal stage; yes I
believe this to be a most important school fo-


the unborn infant to pass through, and it will
exhibit its training from the earliest stages of
its, earth-life. It is astonishing what a creature,
of habit wc can make of an infant; if the
mother is regular and wise in her habits, the
tiny creature becomes the same, if a healthy
child; if she is the oposite of this, the child be-
comes restless and irritable. When only a few
months old, it will understand the tones of its
mother’s voice, and even the expression of her
face! If she is unhappy or irritable, or easily
excited, her child will become the same; if she
is happy and lively, the child will instantly
partake of the same blessed influence. In this
way commences the education of children; a
mother should constantly remember the end
from the beginning, and hence make a point
of never giving a child any thing it ought not
to have, merely to please it, or to keep it quiet,
Children are very easily pleased, if their tastes
are not early vitiated—how often we see hap-
piness destroyed through life by this early per-
version; a little child is just as pleased with a
rag-doll, nicely "fixed up" as with an expensive
one. Feeding and clothing children properly
would alone fill many sheets—health is often
deseroyed by want of wisdom in these matters,
in fact rearing children is a mighty volume that
we write in them for time, and probably for
eternity; a well educated young person, is a bless-
ing to the world!—let mothers work for etern-
ity in rearing their children, and, not bestrew
their young days with the gew-gaws of the age,
its fashions, and its nonsense, and their present
life will publish the fact. The heart, the brain,
the affection, the disposition, all must be cul-
tivated to form a character. Never buy the
good conduct of a child. It is a bad principle
to say if you will be good, or do this, or that, I
will give you a present—a new dress or some
other gift. Teach them that goodness and
obedience bring their own reward; offering
rewards is bribery and inculcates in
then a grasping craving, and imperative nat-
ure; and as they grow up they become
imperious; yet, let there be times for re-
warding; when a child has been good, and
obedient or helping mother nicely not expect-
ing reward, then let it come forth with loving
and approving words; then it will have a ben-
eficial influence, but never as wages, no never!
When a child says I will do so and so if you
will give me what I want, then is the moment
to teach it, that to be what God loves; we must
work on principle and assure them the reward
will come, certainly from our own conscience,
if in no other way, and that is the sweetest of
all rewards. for without it all others are taste-
less. Teach them to despise being either
bought or sold, and their good actions ever ac-
knowledged in a suitable way that shall edify,
and instruct or comfort and engender self-re-
spect . Kind and encouraging words to a well
trained child, are more beneficial than any
present. Rewards are proper for all—but the
way in which they are offered enhances the
gift, or may have an injurious effect. The
jewel if ever so costly, requires taste and tact
in the setting, or the intrinsic worth is not re-
alized. Dear mothers; young mothers, study
how to educate your children in the sweet
school Home, and in the future, you will reap
a rich reward, that will shed a mighty blessing
over the evening of your days, and will give a
peace and a satisfaction that no one can
take away. Hints are all I can at present
offer.


