RIVERDALE.

	The Relief Society of Riverdale met at the
residence of Brother W. G. Childs according
to an appointment to hold meeting at 10
o'clock A. M. Bishop Sanford Bingham,
Counselor Wm. Stimpson and several of the
brethren were present. Meeting called to or-
der by President M. A. Bingham. Singing
"Come let us anew," prayer by Bro. Hunter,
singing "Oh say what is truth." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved, also our
yearly report. The district was then reported
the majority of the people feeling well, some
sickness among the children. President M.
A. Bingham, Counselors Edna Stimpson and
Nancy Bybee; each spoke of the goodness of
God to us, gave us good counsel and words of
encouragement to all present.
	Bishop S. Bingham exhorted the Sisters to
be united, to be faithful, to the work they were
engaged in, be careful to instruct their child-
ren in the right way, and not speak against any
principles that had been revealed through the
servants of God, bore testimony to the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage, said it was a true
principle from the Lord. Bro. Hunter, Coun-
selor Wm. Stimpson and Bro. Dye, all felt well
in meeting with the sisters; bore testimony to
the truth of this being the work of God we are
engaged in, said Celestial Marriage, and all the
principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph were
from our Heavenly Father. Advised the sis-
ters to be united and persevere in doing good.
	Sister Hansen, of Plain City, spoke of her
experience in this Church in a very intersting
manner, also in a kindly and sympathetic way
towards our young folks, believed they would
stand true to the faith of their parents. Meet-
ing closed by singing "Oh My Father"
Benediction by Bishop S. Bingham.
	After meeting a bountiful supper was partak-
en of by over 30 elderly bretheren and sisters
and some young people, and children. A so-
cial chat followed and some songs to enliven
the time, all present feeling we had an extra
good time, hoping that we would through the
blessing of God be able to have many more
such parties. We have some good sisters in
Riverdale, our worthy President her Coun-
selors, Secretary and Treasurer, are all good
women who try to do their duty, attend to the
sick, and the wants of the poor. We unitedly
pray for the welfare of Zion, the EXPONENT, is
a welcome visitor in this our little settlement.
