THAT WONDERFUL BILL.

	So the deed is done, the Edmund's bill has
received the royal signature. And our doom
is sealed, so say our enemies. A bill to disfran-
chise the most loyal people upon the face of the
earth, whose only crime is, that they exercise
the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and
worship God as they have been commanded to
by revelation from heaven, and what have
the champions of this bill accomplished by this
move? In my humble opinion simply made
themselves, a hiss and a by-word throughout
all generations to come. The names of those
who voted for this infamous bill, will I believe
yet be classed with such men as Benedict Ar-
nold and those who have proved themselves
traitors to their country, and to those institu-
tions which have been bequeathed to us as a rich
legacy by the founders of American Independ-
ence. I was reading in the New York Herald,
a few days since, an extract from a manuscript
purporting to be written by a Mrs. Paddock,
on Polygamy, from actual experience (it said
among the Mormons) It contained the most
atrocious falsehoods I have ever seen in print.
About men in plural marriage whipping their
wives for trifling causes, and of one who
chained his wife down to the garret floor, and
kept her on bread and water diet for a number
of days, and many more of a like character.
And these are the wild-cat stories that are

[Column 2]
readily believed and acted upon by our wonder-
ful wise legislators. It is so perfectly ridicul-
ous, that it would be hardly worth a passing
notice, were it not for the momentous results
that are brought about from these very sources.
But it is only another drop in the cup of in-
iquity which seemingly was already filled to
overflowing.
	Now I have had a very good opportunity of
learning something of the practical working of
this system, I have had an actual experience in
it for the last 28 years. And have been inti-
mately acquainted with a great many families
where the plural order of marriage was prac-
ticed, and I have never seen or heard of any of
these occurances mentioned by this woman
writer. On the contrary there is more hap-
piness in a well regulated patriarchal family,
where all have a proper regard for each other's
rights. There is a source of joy and happiness
and satisfaction, in the certainty that we are
obeying direct commands from heaven; that
nothing else can give. And when the Congress
of the Nation go so far in their head-strong
zeal as to make plurality of wives a target, it
shows their folly and ignorance of the motives
that prompt us: they perhaps judge us from
their own standard of morals. They do not
seem to understand that they are measuring
arms with the Almighty God of heaven. The
Lord has commanded and we have obeyed.
And if we stand firmly and nobly to the prin-
ciples we have espoused, what power can move
us? As long as the Lord is on our side al-
though the whole world should be arrayed
against us, there is no cause for fear, for his
promises fail not. If we are true to our God
and our religion, and do our part, He
will certainly do his. Satan is getting despar-
ate for he knows his time is short, and the time
is near when He will reign whose right it is to
reign. Wickedness and corruption are spread-
ing with lightning rapidity, over the face of
the civilized world. And Utah is like the
oasis in the desert it is the only spot to be found
upon the earth where the people recognize the
right of the God of heaven to reveal his holy
will for the government of his people upon the
earth. All honor to those few honorable men
in Congress who had the loyalty and patri-
otism to stand up in the face of powerful opposi-
tion and advocate constitutional rights even for
the poor despised Mormons; their names will
be held in honorable remembrance by our
people throughout all time, for striving to oppose
a bill that was striking at the very root of Con-
stitional liberty.
	Have we not suffered enough in being driven
from our homes into the desert, that they must
still follow us and hunt us down as they do wild
savage beasts, who are not fit to dwell upon
this beautiful earth. Have we not a right to
the air we breathe? Or do they envy us that?
Let us stand firm and unflinching to the cause
we have espoused, for we do know that the
Everlasting Gospel has been again restored to
earth, from the heavens, and although the
wicked may rage and struggle to overthrow
this work, their plans will-be thwarted, and the
arm paralysed that fights against the people of
God. Our course is onward and upward, and
no power on earth can prevail against us if we
are faithful and trust in Him, who is mighty to
save, and Who will ere long come out in his
mighty wrath, against all those who raise their
puny arms to stay the progress of his work.
They will be crushed by the little stone; cut
out of the mountain without hands, which is
destined to roll until it shall fill the whole
earth, and all those who fight against God
will be, as the dream of a night vision, they
will all disappear before the radiant light and
glory of God.					SARAH M.


THE married woman's property bill has passed
two readings in the House of Lords, England.


