					W. H. BEARD.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
	WE now drove to the Cathedral Santa Maria
del Fiore, it is of great extent and magnifi-
cence, the exterior is incrusted with prec-
ious marbles and filled with beautiful
sculpture, the northern porch is especially
fine, also the Southern door nearest the
apse with a garland of fig leaf by Pietro di
Giovanni, within it is paved with marble.
Behind the high altar is a Pieta unfinished,
and the inscription says the last work of
Michael Angelo executed in 1555, when he
was in his eighty-first year. The Crucifix
over the altar is by Bennedetto da Majano,
beneath the central altar of the apse is the
famous Shrine of San Zenobia, by Ghiberti,
1440. We now went inside the “Baptistery

[Column 2]
of my gracious St. John,” Dante—once
the Cathedral, its date is uncertain, it is
believed to have been once a temple of Mars,
the interior is dark. It is surrounded by
sixteen columns of which one is of white
marble and fifteen of gray granite. The
marble believed to be the column on which
the statue of Mars stood, near Ponte Vec-
chio. The Cupola is covered with Mosaics,
the high altar has a beautiful frontal of sil-
ver repousse’ work. The old font 1128
was a large basin for immersion, surrounded
by smaller basins; in the present one all
the children born in Florence are baptized.
The beautiful tomb of Pope John XXIII is
by Donatello.
	This afternoon we take the train for
Bologna, only a short journey—the rail-
way crosses the valley of the Arno, the
plains of Lambardy and the Appenines.
There are forty-five tunnels, ten of which
are more than a mile long, with galleries,
bridges, viaducts and embankments, the
scenery is very beautiful, one of the most
interesting places en route was Pistoja,
famous for its iron works, here the pistol
was invented. Soon we arrive at Bologna,
Hotel d’ Italie, the proprietor always wel-
comes us, and always comes to wish us
good bye and bon voyage—it is a pleasant
custom.
	Bologna City is the capital of the prov-
ince of Bologna, situated in a fertile plain
near the northern foot of the Appenines,
eighty miles of rail north of Florence. A
handsome city, the paved streets are lined
with varied colonnades which afford shelter
from sun and rain. The palaces of the
nobility are fine, it has 74 churches, they
are beautiful and richly furnished with
paintings by the old Masters. The church
of San Stefano, one of the oldest in Italy,
contains Greek frescoes of the 12th century;
the church of San Petronio is a fine speci-
men of the Italian Gothic style, adorned
with masterpieces of painters and sculptors;
the church of San Dommica has sculptures
of M. Angelo, and paintings by Guido, L
Caracci and Colorma; those with the Cathe-
dral, rich in works of art, were all we had
time to visit. A most curious custom is
burying some of their holy people in a
sarcophagus standing on pillars in front of
their churches.
	We now drove about the city, the fountains
are most curious, and in a square near the
centre of the city are the Leaning Towers,
the Torre Asinelli, built in 1110, is Ferne
Say, 256 feet high, others 320 feet and leans
4 feet; the Torre Garisendi is 163 feet high
and leans 10 feet. They were designed so
and are not wonderful like that of Pisa.
	We now drove outside the walls, about
three miles is the pilgrimage church, La
Madonna di S. Luca, built in 1731, named
from the picture of the Virgin said to have
been painted by St. Luke. A most inter-
esting place was the Campo Santo, the
building is an old Monastery, 14th century,
devoted to its present use in 1801 on the
site of the Etruscan burial ground. You
can be buried here for one hundred dollars,
they come in the night, you are not made
sad by the sight of a hearse in this city, nor
do your family go with you; so the Priest
told us who showed us the monuments.
	Bologna is the native place of many emin-
ent painters, Guido, the three Caracci, and
of Pope Benedict XIV. The city was taken
by Charlemagne in 800 A. D., and was the
capital of the most powerful Italian repub-
lic from 1118 to 1274.
							KIM.


