LADIES' SEMI-MONTALY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet- 
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Nov. 28, 1896, President M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Singing “O,
happy souls who pray;” prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe; singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion;” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne felt it was good to meet
together and speak of the goodness of the
Lord, one to another. “We must be contin-
ually on the watch-tower, guard our speech
for Satan took advantage of our words, not
our thoughts, we should have good in our
hearts ‘for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh,’ we should seek
to have the Spirit of the Lord always.”
Spoke on faith, repentance and baptism,
said when she thought of the privileges we
enjoyed she felt we are truly a blessed
people, related a vision of Brother Wood-
ruff’s wherein he saw Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and seeing them in such a burry,
being very busy, he asked why this was.
They told him this was the last dispensa-
tion and they were getting ready for the
resurrection. Said we should use very great
wisdom in asking the Lord for spiritual
gifts especially the gift of tongues, thought
if God had a gift for us it was for a special
purpose and he would give it to us. Re-
fered to President Woodruff’s sermon on 
this subject and urged the sisters to live
their religion and prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Sister Leaker testified to God’s goodness
to her and felt to coincide with everything
said by President Horne, spoke of her Tem-
ple work; felt to praise the Lord. Sisters
Morris and Julia Samson bore faithful testi-
monies. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Mary Ann Hyde in her re-
marks refered to the recent death of Sister
Helen Mar Whitney, also many other dear
friends who had passed away, spoke on
faith and told of a blessing given her by one
of these sisters in which she was told she
should have great faith. This had been
literally fulfilled, she and three young 
children had been healed by faith, urged
the mothers to watch carefully, made some
beautiful and encouraging remarks and
prayed the Lord to bless us, also warned
the sisters to be wise in asking for the gift 
of tongues. 
	President Horne related how she receiv-
ed the gift of tongues, also spoke of her
youngest daughter having this gift but that
they both came unsought. Refered to Sis-
ter Hyde who had this gift but always used
it in wisdom and by the Spirit of the Lord,
spoke strongly on this subject. Sister Zina
Hyde spoke on this subject.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown related an in- 
stance of the gift of speaking in tongues,
knew the Spirit of the Lord was the great- 
est comfort and blessing to her, alluded to
the goodness of the Lord and how His hand 
had been over her all the time for good, 
bore her testimony. 
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
truth of what had been said in regard to
the gift of tongues, related an instance of 
engaging in prayer with her little family
and how she then and there received the
gift, felt this was a comforting gift; “there
is a book of remembrance kept and when the
sisters testify of the goodness of God this 
is recorded. President Horne made a few

[Column 2]
closing remarks and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing “Satan’s power long has florish-
ed;” benediction by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA Y. HYDE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of R lief Society Conference of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held in the
Paris 1st ward meeting house, Sunday,
Nov. 29, 1896. Opened by singing “ O,
God our help in ages past;” prayer by
Bishop Price; continued by singing
“When earth in bondage;” sacrament
was then administered under the hands of
the Paris 1st ward Bishopric. Sacramental
hymn “Ye children of the Lord.” Presi-
dent Julia Lindsay presiding, also before
receiving reports she offered a few timely re-
marks.
	Paris 1st ward represented favorably by
President Margaret Inness; Paris 2nd ward
represented by President Ashley; Bloom-
ington ward represented by Counselor L. M.
Hart, who afterwards said how she thought
we should all be truly sincere in our
religious duties, also related many beauti-
ful items of her experience while passing
through the Temple, told how her noble
and beautiful mother taught her to be
economical, neat and tidy, said it was
necessary and right for young ladies to be
careful in taking good counsel from their
loving mother and put aside ca elessness.
learn to make good bread, and mend their
clothing and shoes if necessary and prepare
for future usefulness. Also said how care-
ful young ladies should be in choosing hus-
bands, and not be too hasty to wed, said
how she looked forward for things she has
been deprived of in this life, that she can re-
ceive in the life to come if she is faithful,
advised the sisters never to speak indiffer-
ently of the Priesthood before their child-
ren or they will regret it all their lives, also
wished us to be liberal with our means and
cultivate charity, and help those who are
in need and try to be Saints in very deed.
	Sister Bagley reported the Montpelier
ward as being in a very fair condition, said
although Montpelier has had a bad name
and that people cannot possibly be Saints
that live there, yet they have a good Relief
Society and many of the sisters are very
liberal when called upon to aid the needy.
Also said how careful a mother should be
to cultivate the spirit of the Gospel and
prepare our families to understand the duties
required of them when about to start in
life for themselves, so as to have our child-
ren worthy members in the kingdom of God.
If we are members of the Relief Society we
will be able to get rid of false ideas, we will
also become better wives and mothers than
we would otherwise. How necessary it is
for us to be kind and thoughtful to the
orphan and help cheer those who are in
distress and downcast We should also
respect old age, and try to assist in sickness
Thanked our Heavenly Father for the
privilege of living in this last age and dis-
pensation, exhorted the young people to
respect their religion and live a good and
true life.
	President Lindsay said if we only put in
practice what we already have heard, we
would accomplish something great. Al-
ways had taken comfort to know that her
anchor of courage has been that she had a
standing in the Church and Kingdom of
God, always felt comforted when having

[Column 2]
prayed to our Heavenly Father and had
things brought to her mind that she had
not thought of before, many times when in
need of the same, also has been able to
overcome that fear or timidity that comes
upon us when we are called upon to speak
to the Saints, desired to live to do good,
although at times she had wondered what
good it was to live now her husband had
passed away and her family all raised.
Related her experience in her Temple
work, told how worried she was about her
work on account of some of the members of
her family not being able to go through
the Temple to work for dead relatives not
having time etc., said how the Lord
miraculously answered her prayers with re-
gard to getting her great genealogy, 1438
having been baptized for already and some
few endowed for. It was astonishing how
much baptizing her nephew got through in
a day, 300 baptisms. By the help of Sister
Spencer has been able to accomplish so
much genealogical work, felt how good it
was to be under the influence of the Holy
Spirit and feel the presence of the heavenly
beings, after having worked one day in the
Temple, felt repaid for all her life’s suffer-
ings and trials, would not change her posi-
tion in plural marriage for anything or on
any account. Be very careful how we
speak of the Lord's anointed because it is
not our duty to criticise their actions, but
be Saints in very deed. Never knew dur-
ing her experience in this Church such a
spirit of fault-finding as there is today.
	Our Relief Society is organized in all its
branches in order to exercise our charita-
table feelings to all who are in need, Mor-
mon or Gentile, and we believe that in the
near future we will be called upon to help
and assist many who are not of our faith,
asked the Lord to help us to remain firm
and steadfast, and reminded us that after
we become members of the Relief Society
we take upon ourselves great responsibili-
ties.
	President James Hart had enjoyed the re-
marks that had been made, felt to com-
mend the valuable instruction that had
been given, could not empahsize too much
the useful and timely remarks that had
been made in regard to respecting the
Priesthood etc. We are to much given to
say “I can’t do this, and I can’t do the
other, ” we should be willing to say“ I can
do all things through Christ’s strengthen-
ing my labors.” There are many things
required of us in the various stages of life;
we can do all things required of us through
asking the Lord’s assistance, rejoiced in
the great good our worthy sisters were
doing, and felt proud of being numbered
with the Latter-day Saints, said we should
be ready at all times to forsake everything
for the Gospel’s sake. We are privileged
to be heirs to the Priesthood, prayed that
the spirit of this meeting would go out to
all other wards in this Stake, and may the
Lord’s choicest blessings rest upon us all.
	Conference was adjourned for six months;
choir sang “Onward Christian Soldiers;”
benediction by President William Rich.
		LOUISA TUELLER, Acting Sec.


