EDITORIAL NOTES
	MISS S. J. Curns of Baltimore and Miss
Nellie Colburn of Kansas, two young wo-
men traveling, and taking in the sights,
called with letters of introduction. They are
interested in all that has been done in Utah
to build up the country, and especially wo-
man’s advancement.
	WE have had recently a very pleasan 
visit from Mr. and Mrs. Morton Lindley of
California, people of education and refine-
ment and entirely without prejudice against
our people; Mr. Lindley is interested in
mining operations and they spent three
weeks in Mercur, and took in the places of
interest in the City. Mrs. Lindley is a
literary woman, has published one book of
fiction and has been employed quite a few
years in heavy literary work on law books,
Thompson’s Law Review; was also proof
reader and so on at one time with. Bancroft
when he was preparing his history, Mrs.
Lindley had called on me before her mar-
riage, with her mother in 1892 when the
office was opposite, the Templeton behind
the old wall.
	THE play given under the auspices of
the Old Folks Committee in the Theatre on
Tuesday Dec. 15, was very enjoyable.
The Old Homestead is a very attractive
piece and the company deserve hearty com-
mendation for their generosity to the aged,
the widows and orphans. This custom of
remembering the old folks is a very praise-
worthy one and should be an example to
the young people for however young and
charming now the day will come when only
the beauty of the soul remains. The Thea-
tre was crowded and it is certain that there
were many who thoroughly appreciated the
performance. God bless the old folks, the
widows and orphans and may they have
many more such blessed opportunities. And
may those who waited upon them and con-
tributed to their comfort also receive the re-
ward that always follows a generous action.
	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL President of
the Relief Society in the 15th ward in this city
made a widow’s party in the afternoon of
Nov. 19 ult. The spacious hall was well
filled mostly with women, the Bishop of the
ward, Elias Morris, and the President of
the Stake, Angus M. Cannon and a few
other brethren were present barely a sprink-
ling. After singing and prayer Sister
Kimball made a neat little speech and then


Bishop Morris addressed the sisters followed
by Sister M. Isabella Horne, Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, all veter-
ans in the Church and in the cause of
charitable work. Brother Lovesay, recent-
ly from England, sang a humorous song
and Sister E. B. Wells spoke a short time,
followed by a returned Missionary and then
President Angus M. Cannon spoke to the
Relief Society. After singing the Doxolo-
gy the benediction being pronounced, re-
freshments were served to all, and conver-
sation became general, the delicate elderly
ladies were taken to and from the party in
carriages. This practice of entertaining
the lonely widows of the ward is very com-
mendable and we would humbly suggest to
others “Go thou and do likewise.”


