SCANDAL.

	PERSONS who always take the oppor-
tunity to burlesque the mistakes of another,
are liable to disfigure their own physiog-
nomy permanently, as one that always
frowns wear, on their brow wrinkles. In
making pictures a good artist will favor the
posing of them with proper light and shade,
that when his work is completed he can
realize to the fullest extent, an enjoyment of
the Golden Rule, “Do to others as you
would have them do unto you.”
	Gossip is something like many sides to
a picture. To more clearly illustrate my
idea; suppose you place several minors in
a room in a circular position, and the indi-
vidual who is to be pictured to him or her-
self in standing in front of one will see the
different individuals in the several mirrors,
and will be astonished to know that they
are the identical and same individual in the
several mirrors, that is facing the one mir-
ror, and are so unlike the face view. Then
how unjust (and to the disadvantage of the
original) it would be to represent the back
or side pictures, as a perfect and front view,
which is the side of a person that the be-
holder obtains varied expressions, that are
not obtained or conveyed in the other repre-


sentations. Again life has its different
phases. The child is admired because of
its perfection of feature in its innocence,
though ignorant. Prime of life is appreciat-
ed because of its usefulness; old age is ap-
preciated because of its experience and
knowledge.
	“Man know thyself.” The acts of an
individual are an open expression of the
educated will. The child may be naturally
morose but it has forgotten its temper if
associated with its opposite. ‘‘Bad manners
corrupt good morals.” Children learn
in their childhood plays, to both build
up and tear down; but the individual of
maturity of mind and body, build a better
castle prior to tearing down the old one.
	Christmas will soon be here. Why not
feed the child’s heart and mind with proper
reading instead of the ridiculous caricatures
which are a detriment to the circulators as
well as a disgrace to the makers. Can it be
possible that any parent is so lost to the
duty to children, neighbors and friends as
to encourage the purchasing of anything
that is so exaggerated as to lose all sem-
blance of truth? If any disease is not
fostered by what it feeds on, it will die
naturally of itself. Burlesque and ridicule
will never elevate an individual; one that
is given to such propensities, as a remedy I
wonld suggest a daily reading of Jesus’
Sermon on the Mount. Again health knows
no pain, but what of sickness? The indi-
vidual is not the same in body nor mind— 
neither the same in poverty, as in wealth.
What of God’s laws? Perfection; just so
far when applied to the individual as they
have attained to it. In order to measure
arms with the Almighty, one would be
necessitated to stand upon the same exalted
pedestal of intelligence and power. O,
how futile is man!
