TITIAN AS STATE ARTIST.

	IN giving an account of the paintings of
so great a master, it is only possible to 
speak of the most celebrated ones. In fol-
lowing Titian “the Prince of Colorists’’
into Padua, we find there, as well as else-
where, the proof of the great things that
have been said of him. In 1511 he went
to Padua, the center of Italian art and in
tellectual development, where he did some
Palace, and a great deal of Church Fresco-
ing, a work he always disliked.
	His best decorative work was done on the
Convent of St. Anthony and consisted of
descriptive scenes and incidents in the life
of that Saint.  One of the best Frescoes
painted at Padua was “The Triumph of 
Faith,” of which one of the critics of the
day said: “It is a Masterpiece and worthy
a Christian painter.” “The Three
Miracles,” of St Anthony was his best work
done at that time. While they were not
considered historical works they were noted
for their magnificently drawn figures, poet-
ical beauty and a glowing perfection of
color.
	Titian having been in Padua about six
months returned to Venice in the early
spring. At this time he was invited to
Rome by Pope Leo X., an invitation he
refused because of his higher ambition as
well as his love of more congenial society.
In 1513 Titian desiring fame more than
fortune, petitioned “State Council of Ten”
that he be allowed to paint in the Hall of
the Council leaving all financial matters to
the discretion of the Council, a proposition
the authorities were not slow in accepting.
Thus Titian became State Painter but on
account of the many delays caused by his
professional enemies, who were envirous of
the favors shown him, he did not finish
any of his first paintings for several years.
In 1516 Titian went to Favara and visited
with and painted the portrait of the Duke
Alfonso I., which was admired by Michael
Angelo and is now in the Gallery at
Madrid.  He also painted the portrait of
the Duchess, Alfonso’s first wife, who was
none other than the famous Lucrezia Bor-
gia. Titian was employed by this Prince
more than two years at this time, and paint-
ed some very fine pictures some of which
seem to embrace all the characteristics of
this great artist. In one of these paintings
there is shown over sixty figures in as
many different attitudes. It is said that
one of the great artists shed tears when
this painting was carried away from Italy.
Alfonso did not only pay Titian generously
for his paintings but bestowed on him all
the honors he would have shown a great
nobleman of a rank superior to his own.
After this Titian painted many pictures
that became celebrated. Two of the most
noted ones were “The Assumption of the
Virgin” and “The Martyrdom of St. Peter
Martin.” At this time Titian was filling
several important commissions for others.
Because of this the Venetian Government
became very angry at the artist and threat-


[Column 1]
ened to relieve him of his state duties, if he
did not devote all his time and talents to
the paintings wanted for the Doge Palace.
	Titian had five assistants, yet he could
scarcely fill the orders for paintings as they
came in, and through many of them ran a
thread of the love he still cherished for the
poetical scenes of his childhood. At this
time Titian painted a great many Court por-
traits and one of himself. That was called
by all his people “The precious gift of our
relative Titian.” In 1521 Alfonso invited
Titian to spend Christmas with him and
visit the Pope at Rome; he again refused
the Royal invitation, returning to his belov-
ed Venice, ‘‘the Home of all Artists.”
When asked why he did not accept the
invitation to visit the Pope he replied, ‘‘he
was tired of Courts and Princes,” but he
must have formed a liking for high life
while at Court for upon returning to Venice
he purchased a fine house and ‘‘lived
splendidly;” yet the possession of great
wealth and loss of companions did not pre-
vent his continuous painting, for it was in
these, the most brilliant years of his life,
in that Venetian studio, he painted some of
his best pictures, many of which occupy
prominent places in the great art galleries
of the world. Titian’s reputation had by
this time spread throughout all Europe, so
that some of the Kings beseeched the Vene-
tian Government to allow him to paint their
portraits. In 1523 he was permitted to
paint the portrait of the King of France,
and the letter of introduction he bore to the
King from the State Council of Ten ran
thus in part: "This is Titian, most excel
lent in art, but modest and gentle withal.”
	Then followed another long visit to the
Duke Alfonso where he painted several of
his finest Festive pictures. Then back to
the Council where in the latter part of 1523
he painted ‘‘The Entombment of Christ”
and the ‘‘Glorious Madonna.” that caused
Pardone, his most bitter enemy, to give ex-
pression to his admiration of this great
work.
	Titian’s favorite style of painting the
Madonna was as a true, loving, motherly
woman, getting the idea from the mother
of his own children whom he loved so well.
Titian finished “The Martyrdom of St.
Peter Martyn,” in 1529 after two years
work. For this great painting Titian re-
ceived the reward offered by the Brother-
hood of St. Peter. We next find Titian in
the winter of 1529 and 30 at Bologna ming-
ling in the festivities surrounding the
grand ceremony of crowning Charles V. by
Pope Clement VII. Though Titian was
tired of Court life his artistic pulse must
have quickened at the sight of the com-
bined splendor of this ceremony, and the
brilliantly arrayed company of statesmen,
soldiers and scholars with their retinue
from all Germany and Italy. The first
portrait he painted on this occasion was
that of Pope Clement, which is now in the
Bridgewater Gallery, London. The next
one was of Charles V. who was so well
pleased that he became the firm friend and
patron of the artist. This portrait became
celebrated and is now in the Royal Gallery
at Madrid.
	There was so much Royal praise and 
favor bestowed on Titian at this time that
he returned to Venice laden with honors
and rewards, envied of his artistic powers
by all. In 1532 Charles V. rode into Italy
to receive the homage of her Princes. The
Emperor himself was an enthusiastic col-

[Column 2]
lector of art treasures, and after having
seen some of Titian’s work, he sent off at
once a pressing invitation for Titian to
come to him, which invitation that inde-
pendent artist heeded not, except through
his relation to the Court, till 1533 when he
again painted the Emperor. In May of the
same year, Titian was made Count of the
Empire, and Superintendant of the collec-
tion of Art Treasures. In 1537 Titian
painted the portraits of twelve Roman
Emperors. All of these paintings became
celebrated. In the latter part of 1537 Titian
had some financial trouble with the State
Council of Ten, and was nearly losing his
position as State Artist, through the treachery
of his enemy Pardone; but he regained
the favor of the Council by painting one of
his best works. In 1539 ‘‘The Presenta-
tion in the Temple,” now in the Venetian
Gallery, was Titian’s next important and
most gorgeous work.
	In 1542 Titian painted the portrait of
Pope Paul III., that gained for him the
name of “The Character Painter.” This
picture was said to look so natural that it
was almost “life itself.” Sometime after
this he returned to his Mountain Studio
where he painted the “Ecce Homo” of
1543 for which the Royal owner refused
thirty-five thousand dollars. In 1544 there
was several copies made of the portrait of
the Empress, the beloved wife of Charles
V. that was painted by Titian when the
lady was only twenty-five years of age; one
copy was presented to the Emperor, and
was the dearest treasure of his heart. Titian
up to this time having served his State
about 31 years, finds himself just in the
prime of his wonderful manhood, at about
the age of sixty-two, with eye and hand
and creative abilities as clear and strong as
they were in his youth.
A DESCRIPTION OF SOME OF TITIAN’S FA-
MOUS PAINTINGS.
“THE CHRIST OF THE TRIBUTE MONEY.”
	Titian made this painting to prove to the
critics that he had the finest artistic touch
as well as the greatest power. It is said
that the most delicate veins are discernable,
and that each hair in the ringlets on Christ’s
shoulders can be counted. This is claimed
as the most perfect easel picture Venice
ever produced
“THE NOLI ME TANGERE.”
	This is now in the National Gallery and
shows perhaps more clearly than any other
the true spiritual thoughts Titian had of
Christ, when he painted this picture of
Christ turning from the Magdalen. This
painting is noticed for its tranquility and
its poetical beauty.
“THE VIRGIN’S REST,”
	Is a sunset scene, showing the Virgin
and Child in company with St. John and
St. Catharine, and is celebrated for its
heavenly pathos and solemn grandeur and
is now in the National Gallery.
“THE DUKE ALFONSO,”
	Is the famous portrait of the Duke
Alfonso De Estes, so much admired by
Michael Angelo and was painted by Titian
at the same time he painted Alfonso’s first
wife’s, Lucrezia Borgia.
“THE ANNUNCIATION,” 
Was painted before 1519, and is noted
for the light that shines from the face of the

[Column 3]
archangel as the Divine, message is deliver-
ed to the Virgin.
“THE ASSUMPTION OF THE VIRGIN,”
	Is one of Titian’s masterpieces, and the
best single oil painting in the world, ex-
cept perhaps one on the same subject by
Raphael. It is this painting that caused
the beholder to say “It reminds me of
music.” Though darkened and faded it
is still the pride of the Venetian Gallery.
“THE ENTOMBMENT OF CHRIST.”
	Was painted in the Autumn of 1523. In
the painting are seen the figures of Nicode-
mus and Joseph bearing the body of the
Savior to the tomb. This painting is
famous for its wonderful lights and shadows.
“THE MADONNA DI CASA PESARA.”
	Some of the characters in this painting
are St. Peter, St. Athony, St. Thomas and a
Knight bearing the Jeweled staff of the
Church. It waspainted in 1526 and is now
in one of the greatest churches of Venice.
“THE MAYTYRDOM OF ST. PETER MARTIN.”
	This painting combines all of Titian’s
best talents in the artistic line, and is one
of the most wonderful pictures in the world.
It was painted for, and won the prize offer-
ed by the Brotherhood of St. Peter. The
Venetian Government so loved this paint-
ing that they ordered any one put to death
who dared remove it from its resting place.
Upon beholding this picture the beholder
was said to feel as if the air were darkened
with grief; it was burned in 1867.
“THE MADONNA DEL CONIGLIO.”
	This varies somewhat from the usual
style of Madonna's; instead of presenting
a grave or sad appearance, it shows the
Madonna sitting on the green grass fond-
ling a pet white rabbit. It is now in the
Louvre at Paris, the greatest Art Gallery
in the world.
“THE ECCE HOMO.”
	To give the necessary amount of solitude
to paint so sad a picture as this, Titian re-
tired to his mountain studio and there in
1543 he painted the finest Ecce Homo ever
given to the world of art; it was said to
be as good if not better than the one paint-
ed by Correggio. For this picture the roy-
al owner refused forty-five thousand dollars.
“THE PORTRAIT OF THE EMPRESS.”
	This was painted when the lady was
only twenty-five years of age. She was
then the beloved wife of Charles V., and
when upon his death bed his last wish was
“one last look at his wife, the Empress.”
					(Mrs.) L. S. D.


