SPICELAND, IND., Nov. 30, 1896.
	I acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the
Deseret Evening News of the 16 inst, con-
taining a well prepared sketch of the death
and life history of my esteemed and valued
friend, Mrs. H. M. Whitney. You may
be assured that I read this touching tribute
to the memory of my deceased friend with
feelings of inexpressible sorrow—not be-
cause I think she is not enjoying that rest
and peace that characterizes all our loved,
honored dead who have nobly and truly
filled their mission in life—not because I
entertain the idea that her present state is 
not better than when she lived, and hoped
and loved amid the changing scenes of
earth; but for the reason that we will
 never again be privileged to see her kind
face, or listen to her words of wisdom that
were always freely given in the interest of
justice and truth.
	In some respects I regard Mrs. Whitney
as a remarkable woman, a woman who has

[Column 2]
but few peers in moral and intellectual
worth. The large circle of friends she had
about her who had learned to love and
value her for her many worthy elements of
character, will, I am sure, revere the
memory, and strive to emulate the good 
deeds of the dear one who is now sleeping
in her windowless palace of rest.” Helen
Whitney has forded the “silent river”—
gone from among the scenes of a busy
world, but the good acts, the kind words
and the generous deeds recorded in her life
history will, in the course of time, become
jewels for all true womanhood. We will
all say of the deceased "gone but not for-
gotten.”
	During my travels in the distant west
sometime in the early spring of 1884, I
passed a brief interval in your famous
city enjoying the beautiful historic scenery
in and around the great Mormon metropo-
lis. I remember one bright morning I call-
ed at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Whitney,
told them I was a stranger seeking infor-
mation regarding the strange and peculiar
sect of which they were worthy representa-
tives. It is needless to say I received
a kindly greeting, I was warmly welcomed
to the hospitable home of these generous
people, and during my stay I had the
pleasure of a long conversation with the de-
ceased. Our discussion embraced many of
the leading topics, among which was the
“Mormon question.” I found my friend
familiar with the history of her church,
thoroughly conversant with every feature
of the “Mormon faith,” and fully conscious
of her duties as an advocate of that faith.
	The result of this interview was a warm
and lasting friendship that continued to
ripen with twelve eventful years of corres-
pondence. I have many letters of the de-
ceased that are highly prized for the broad
and liberal ideas they contain, and I have
had several of these friendly communica-
tions published through the Eastern press,
which received high editorial comment.
I trust the earnest life work of our dear one
will be a source of inspiration to those
who have had the privilege of familiarizing
themselves with it, and to the relatives I
take this method to extend my sympathy
and condolence in their hours of sorrow.
	Now I wish to thank you for thus re-
membering me by sending me your pen
picture of our mutual friend’s death, and
let me express a hope that some time in the
future I may visit your famed city, and
give you the grasp of a friendly hand. 
			With great respect,
				I am yours etc,,
