OBITUARY.
MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
    MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
	Mary Ann Bainbridge Hazen of Brighton
ward, Salt Lake City who died on the 27th day of
November, 1896, of typhoid fever, after an illness
of several weeks, was the daughter of Samuel
Bainbridge and Elizabeth Allan and was born
Nov. 28, 1830, in New Castle on Tyne, England.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native city,
being baptized by Elder Robert Gillies in 1852,
and became the wife of Robert Hazen August 29,
853, they being married by Elder Thomas
Squires
	She emigrated to America accompanied by her
husband and an infant daughter and her aged
mother, leaving Newcastle for Liverpool on the
28th of March, 1855, sailing from there on the 31st
of that month in the ship Juventa, to Philadelphia,
arriving May 15th, sojourning in Pennsylvania
and in Bellville, Illinois where her mother died.
	In March 1859 she with her husband and child
left that town and took passage on a steamer
from St. Louis to Florence, and left Florence for
Salt Lake City on July 1859 in Feramorz Little's
company, arriving in the valley Sep. 10, and
locating two days later across the Jordan river
where her home has been continuously until her
demise.
	She was the mother of seven children, two sons
and five daughters, four daughters having pre-
ceded her to the Spirit World.
	On Oct 16,1896 her younger son who is now
laboring in Indian Territory, Mission, took leave
of his mother on her bed of sickness from which
she never arose, but sent a message to him with
her blessing and hoped he would fill a good mis-
sion. She also leaves 16 grandchildren.
	Sister Hazen was an earnest, quiet, humble and
unassuming worker in the Church, ever cheerful,
kind and very hopeful but never complaining.
The children will miss Grandma Hazen, as she
was called.
	She filled honorably the position of President
over the Relief Society of Brighton ward for 21
years, having been appointed Sep. 2 1875. She
also acted in the capacity of a Sunday school
teacher for many years.
	She died surrounded by her sorrowing kindred
and kind friends, and filled with the hope of a
glorious resurrection and exaltation and eternal
life.
                                     ROBERT HAZEN.
    P. S. Sister Hazen was charitable, merciful
and tender-hearted, a true friend and she was
gifted with an exceptionally fine voice in singing ;
she loved her religion and was faithful to the
meetings; she dearly loved the EXPONENT.
								EDITOR.
			RESOLUTIONS.
    RESOLUTIONS of respect to our departed Presi-
dent Maty Ann Hazen, adopted by the remaining
officers and members of the Relief Society of
Brighton ward of Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	WHEREAS, An alwise Providence has called
from our midst to a brighter sphere our beloved
President and co-laborer in the Relief Society of
Brighton ward, be it,
	RESOLVED That in the demise of our sister we
have lost an unassuming, humble and willing
worker, also
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory from
the fact that God and her religion were foremost
of any worldly aims; that we do esteem her
faithful labors and devotion to the Gospel as


worthy of emulation by every member of our
society; further
	RESOLVED, That we sincerly sympathize wlth
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother, sincere
friend and true Latter-day Saint; again
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions and obituary
be placed upon the records of the Relief Society
of Brighton ward, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and one to each member of the
family.
			OTTILIE M. SCHENFELD.
			LYDIA J. BROWN, 
						Counselors.
