CHRISTMAS IN THE LONG AGO.

	SEATED around a wide open fireplace
where the great logs of wood burned cheer-
fully, and the tile hearth was bright and
shining, the strong brass fire-dogs flashing


[Column 1]
in the reflection of the blaze, and all things
else correspondingly neat and cosy, were a
family party in the comfortable sittingroom,
mother and children, all busy at the
evening task, making ready for the coming
Christmas.
	“Another lonely Christmas mamma
without father, how blue we shall all be,
and what a cheerless dinner even though
we all try to keep up appearances; wouldn’t
it be better to go to grandfather’s old place
in the country instead of staying here wait-
ing for the ship to come in when it has
been so long due, and we’ve had no news
of her?” said the eldest daughter Clara,
opening the evening’s conversation. Before
the mother could reply John looking up
from his book in the corner exclaimed,
“ Yes mamma let us go to the old home-
stead in the country, I’ve not been there
since I was a child, and it would be jolly
to trudge around there once again climbing
the stiles, and going through the hedges
hunting the lost turkeys and other farm
fowls; and the great barn was a fine place
for us to hide in when we were boys, do
you remember Frank, the fun we had there
the last time we paid a visit? When father
was home from the Mediterranean and
had'nt seen his old home for many years,
not since we were born anyway, imagine if
we were to do that what would mamma
say?
	“Evidently mamma is not going to get
a chance to answer any of your queries, but
if permitted to speak, mamma will say, that
if your father does not come to-night, and
we hear no news of him, or the ship, we
will go to Hillside and spend Christmas.” 
	"Good, good,” said the three boys all
in one breath; and Clara and Edith joined
in with "delightful, glorious!” "It is
stupid here,” said golden haired Edith,
"and I'm so anxious to see the country
again, even if there should be some snow
it would be the merrier, we might meet
some of those ‘honest country lads,’ grand-
pa always talks to us about with more vir-
tues than manners, not like the city-bred
fellows who pride themselves on their
broadcloth and fine style, so he thinks.”
	"Grandpa is right though girs, he
knows the world pretty well and the men
that make it,” said John. “ No donbt of
it," Edith replied “but who would want
to marry one of them, why we could never
think of having one for a husband, think of
a life time of it, settling down for year in
and year out with such a fellow, and no
amusements, nowhere to go.”
	"We will not discuss marriage just
now,” said Clara interupting, “you are not
out of your teens, but say Edith wouldn’t
it be better to have your husband home
tending the farm, and feeding the stock in
the winter time, than out on the high seas,
exposed to dangers, and never see him at
all, year in and year out, as you say, not
even at Christmas.” 
	“Don’t girls, don’t talk so, you make
everything so real, we’ll go to your grand-
pa’s and try to drive away dull care for a
day or two during holiday week, and may-
be there’ll be news of the ship Goodspeed
by that time,” said the mother pathetically.
	“Well one thing certain I’ll never go to
sea and leave my wife and children, if I
ever have them,” said John, “nor I
either,” echoed Frank, “nor me,” repeat-
ed Fred the youngest.
	“Perhaps you wont all be delighted
when father comes home after this long

[Column 2]
voyage and brings us all presents, then
you’ll sing another tune, and say how you
love the sea, and the ships, and what a
good thing it is to have a father who goes
sailing all around Cape Horn and Cape
Good Hope and all the other Capes, and
brings you home a jolly lot of curios and
things,” said Clara deprecatingly.
	But just then the front door bell rang out
loud and clear, and the mother anxious
with long waiting and hope defered, turned
deathly pale and almost fainted, while John
a stalwart boy of seventeen, sprang with a
bound into the hall, throwing wide open
the door and rushing into his father’s arms
buried his face in the great shaggy fur
coat, and by this time all were being kissed
and made glad, the seaman’s great coat was
cast aside, and the bronze face and shaggy
gray beard of Captain Tremont were visi-
ble; Fred climbed on his knee and began
thrusting his hands into his father’s capa-
cious pockets (of which there were many)
and while Clara went to see after supper and
the boys and Edith all talked at once, Mrs.
Tremont sat silent, too glad and too much
overcome to find utterance in words. By
and by supper over and the boys gone up
stairs to bed, Captain Tremont grew talka-
tive. “What had you planned for Christ-
mas, mother did you include me? We’ve
had some rough seas this trip, I’ve never
seen more storms, I knew how hard it
would be for you wife, with me away and
all these big boys and girls to look after,
and not much means, and a man don’t
know when he comes home after a long
voyage what he’s coming home to, we can’t
get much news on these long voyages you
know, when we come into port, we’re often
disappointed about letters, and sometimes 
there’s bad news and we dread getting
any, when we see one of the crew shocked
by the news he gets—and then when we’re
near home we hardly dare ask after our
own;—you’re nervous and pale wife, but if
you had seen me shake when I got out of
the coach up at Field’s-inn, you would not
have believed it was the same man that had
just come from port, and bade his men good
bye,—but never mind now I know all’s
well at home, how good that sounds when
a man’s been away nigh on to four years.”
	“We don’t care for Christmas now father,
this is good enough for us, the best Christ-
mas we could have is to see you well and
have you here with us, mamma thinks so
I’m sure, and Edith and myself will try to
make you as happy as though you were young
lovers again.” “And wont you want
anything else, what about Santa Claus,
does he come round nowadays when your
old father is not at home?” “O yes, you
remember the boxes we had last year all
the way from Spain, and they came a few
days ahead of Christmas, but we waited
until Christmas eve and we were so jolly,
the boys and all, even Polly and Tim.”
	“Well girls I’ve brought more presents
home than I could send, and one too big
for a box, that I hope you’ll like,” with a
knowing look at his demure wife.—“O,
father what is it a Kangaroo?” said Edith,
“What nonsense,,' replied Clara “of
course it is a native of some of those islands
his man Friday, undoubtedly.”
	“You shall see tomorrow I had to leave
it at the inn, because I didn’t know wheth-
er I should frighten you all with my shaggy
coat and unkempt beard; but as you kept
your wits pretty well at the surprise, for
you evidently did not expect me, I’ll ven-

[Column 3]
ture to bring the biggest Christmas box
tomorrow, let me see, this is the 23rd of Dec-
ember, and at evening we ought to be
at Hillside, what will your dear old grand-
pa say to a rough seafaring man like your
father.”
	“But hadn’t we better stay here now
you’ve come, and not go out in the cold,
you must be weary father after such a long
voyage and severe storms on the ocean.”
	“No wife, I think we’ll go, we might as
well all be happy together and father would
be glad to know I’m safe on land once
more; aye, but it does give one a queer
sensation, I fancy I feel the ship rolling,
and I’m swaying back and forth, yes we’ll
go by all means it’s only about ten miles
drive, and with a good team and if the
roads are not very rough, we’ll get there in
good time, its a roomy old house and Aunt
Bettie’ll make us all welcome.”
	The girls retired and Captain Tremont
and his patient, loving wife who had been
separated so many years from each other,
sat and talked until the fire went out, and
then the half had not been told of happen-
ings, and hopes and fears for each other
and their loved ones ; but “tired nature”
must have rest, and “balmy sleep” comes
to the relief of all ; what a boon to mortals
given.
	In the morning boxes were opened and
gifts distributed only a few reserved for
Santa Claus, but the great wonder too big to
put in a box had not arrived, and the fam-
ily were all guessing and asking numberless
questions; but the greatest surprise was
reserved for Hillside farm. 
	The ride was pleasant for the day was
very fine and the happy party thoroughly
enjoyed each other’s society. On their
arrival which was entirely unexpected (ex-
cept as the grandfather declared he had a
presentiment) a sumptuous repast was serv-
ed and the old home was decorated with
holly and evergreen, according to the time-
honored custom of Christmas eve. Aunt
Bettie the housekeeper was never without
Christmas preparations in the way of lux-
uries, and the boys found the barn as delight-
ful as in the days of hide and seek games.
The one subject that provoked discussion
was the Christmas box, which did not get
there, as the boys and girls had anticipated.
Supper over the family gathered into the
great sittingroom, full of memories for Cap-
tain Tremont and as he spoke of the familiar
articles and appearance of the room, and of
his mother’s “old arm chair,” father and
son so long parted, could not keep back the
tears of affection; how wonderfully these
thoughts rush in upon us at such times!
Fancy conjures up the visions of the past
and the very faces of those so near and dear
seem to shine out in the unreal picture.
	Edith breaks in upon the reverie which
followed the pathetic scene between father
and son, and turned the tide into one of
query aud chatter about the Christmas gift
too big to pack in a box. The guessing
was kept up for an hour or more, until fin-
ally the Captain’s father grown weary of
the nonsense, inquired about the ship and
the voyage from which his son had just re-
turned, and Mrs. Tremont interrupting,
asked her husband to tell some of his expe-
riences; she knew very well this would si-
lence further conjecture about the mysteri- 
ous Christmas present. While thrilling
stories of narrow escapes and terrible storms
at sea were being told in a graphic manner,
and the children were listening as if a spell
were upon them, Mrs. Tremont and Aunt


Bettie busied themselves in adjoining rooms
with Santa Claus in real earnest, for Mrs.
Tremont was in the secret and had received
her instruction.
	Finally when all was ready, and the sig-
nal given to the Captain, the doors were
thrown open and in walked a man as large
and heavy as the Captain himself, loaded
with baskets and boxes, his face hidden be-
neath a hat seemingly of snow, and a beard
long and dark partly concealed by a snowy
muffler; he was decorated with bells that
tinkled as he strode into the centre of the
room and began to set down his bundles.
	“ O, he’s a real Santa Claus,” exclaimed
little Frank, while the girls held their breath
lest he should vanish away, and matter of
fact John declared, he was his father’s man
Friday. But the old fellow did not speak
nor offer to explain, and graudpa who was
not in the confidence of the knowing ones,
asserted it was one of the country lads play-
ing a joke on them.
	“ Will you be seated and tell us your
errand here?” said the Captain as if he was
not aware of the stranger’s coming. ‘‘If
you please good sir I will deliver my mes-
sage and then depart if you permit me,”
said the stranger in a voice so deep-toned
and touching, that all started in amazement
for they knew instantly by his tones he was
a gentleman born and bred.
	Captain Tremont and his wife took the
various packages and bundles and handing
them to the members of the family who
trembling held them unopened, as though
afraid of the contents, and the Captain step-
ping up to the strange man said familiarly,
“It is midnight, remove your hat and coat,
let me introduce you," but the village
Church bells near the farn pealed out the
midnight mass, and silence reigned except
for the music of the bells; meantime the
girls awake to consciousness of the presence
of company, for quite a little gathering had
assembled noiselessly, and standing in the
centre of the group, Captain Tremont intro-
duced to the astonished girls, and to their
country cousins and friends, Mr. Mon-
tague alias Santa Claus. Then the pack-
ages were opened, and every one had some-
thing from a foreign port, but the interest
all centered upon the stranger, and all sorts
of guessing was indulged in among the
curious young people. Dancing and other
festivities, including kissing under the mis-
tletoe, were kept up till nearly daybreak,
but the stranger was quiet and reticent and
the disappointed crowd were compelled to
retire for rest, no wiser than they came con-
cerhing Mr. Montague.
	“Christmas however shall not pass,”
said Edith to her sister after they were safe
in their bedroom, ‘‘without my unsolving
this mystery. Why has father brought
this man here? Is he to remain at our
house or go to sea again when the ship
sails?" Clara was as puzzled as her sister,
and only replied by asking more questions.
	“Are you favorably impressed with him
Edith? Would you like him to stay? Or
do you prefer one of your country cousins,
or one of grandpa’s honest lads?” This and
much more in the same strain passed be-
tween the sisters until sleep visited them,
and when morning dawned, refreshed and
exuberant in spirits, they sought the break-
fast room with the gay greetings of youth
and innocence, Mr. Montague was there and
several of the guests, young men and maid-
ens; but the great attraction for all was the
stranger who had been so mysteriously in-
troduced into the house.
	Edith succeeded before dinner in catching
her father alone in the hall and plying him
with questions which he evaded but prom-
sed to enlighten them later on when he
had a good opportunity.
	After dinner Christmas day Captain Tre-
mont told the story of Fred Montague. A
terrific storm of wind and hail caught the
ship near the Baltic sea, and not being able
to see, when night came on the darkness
was so dense the Goodspeed collided with
the Friendly, which had only recently sailed
out of port; both vessels were injured, but
the Friendly seriously, so that she had to
be abandoned, the men on board took to
the boats, and as the sea continued high,
and the storm did not abate nearly all per-
shed. . Mr. Montague managed to sight
the ship Goodspeed, and when the pilot
discovered the boat like a speck, measures
were taken to find whether it was empty;
finding it contained a human being the
kind-hearted sailors brought him more dead
than alive on board. He revived under
the tender care of the ship doctor, and feel-
ing he owed his life to the crew he made
himself useful in every way possible. The
first mate was takeu ill and Mr. Montague
took his place and succeeded so well, with
the help of other men, that he continued
with the vessel, and when Capt. Tremont
finding a chance to send him home on a
ship they met bound for France, he refused
to go, saying he would stand by the ship
until she came into the British port. It
was quite evident a strong attachment had
sprung up between the two men, and Mr.
Montague determined to abide with the
Captain.
	The visit to Hillside farm was prolonged
and the merry party of young people did
not fail to enjoy the time in a round of gay
festivities. The preferences among the
young people came to be quite noticable be-
fore the holiday week was over, and the
anxious mother saw how interested Edith
and Fred were in each other, and mentioned
to the Captain what she observed. ‘‘It is
all right,” said he, “I informed myself of
his parentage and character before bringing
him home as a Christmas present. Noth-
ing would suit me better than to say yes,
when I am asked.” “Then suppose I
should tell you Clara is enamored of one of
her numerous country cousins?” “I should
not be displeased wife—we have not for-
gotten how easy it was for us to fall in love,
but two engagements Christmas week and
so soon after my return is not very flatter-
ing to the father, and it really is more
than we bargained for, however we must
make the best of it and it wont be very
hard work, two reputable young men in
the family will be an acquisition to be
proud of. I suppose its all owing to the
mistletoe and its powerful influence, we
must lay it to something you know."
“Its human nature I should judge,” said
his wife, “considering men and women
have been falling in love ever since the
creation in the Garden of Eden.”
	The dear old grandfather heard the en-
gagements announced before Captain Tre-
mont took his family back to the city, and
gave them his blessing and invited them to
come and celebrate their double wedding
the next Christmas.
	And so the Christmas looked forward to
gloomily by these two young girls brought
them many blessings, gifts from afar, corals
from the South sea islands, shawls from
India and fans of ivory fit for a Duchess,
besides bringing their father safe home,
and best of all perhaps, a sweetheart. And
so it often happens in real life the unexpect-
ed happens. Love begets love it is said and
so out of the love of doing good to others
and promoting happiness at Christmas time
that intense soul-love is sometimes born or
created that unites two happy hearts in a
mutual bond of blessing that lasts forever.
In this iustance. Clara married the honest
country lad whom Edith described as being
always at home year in and year out, and
Edith the sailor who stayed away year in
and year out, and both were satisfied, and
although this story is only a simple sketch
out of real life it is founded on facts, and
“truth is stranger than fiction.”


