CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	[HERE is a specimen of porcelain made
in Syracuse, N. Y., called Flowing blue,
to me much handsomer than Delft.]
	[Here is another made in East Liverpool;
this is called the Lotus ware, as fine as the
finest French ware.] 
	[Here is a specimen of Beleek made by
the Ceramic Art Co., Trenton, N. Y. It is
as fine as any Irish Beleek that was ever
made. There are many other factories that
make as fine goods as these, so we need not
cross the Atlantic to find the beautiful por-
celain.]
	That there is a brilliant future in store
for the Ceramic art of America may be in-
ferred from the rapid stride forward it has
made. With a limitless wealth of material,
gifted with enterprise, originality and taste,
the American artist can look forward to
taking his place with the best the world
has produced. 
	There are many obstacles in the way,
however, with a heavy protective tariff
our manufacturer is barely able to compete
with the foreign cheap labor producer.
The import duty does not cover the greater
expense of working in this country.
Statistics show that in labor and material
the American manufacturer labors under
the disadvantage of about 100 per cent. In
works of art the disadvantage is vastly in-
creased. The makers of the tariff make a
distinction of only 10 per cent between

[Column 2]
white granite and decorated porcelain; a
difference of 5 per cent is drawn between
decorated and undecorated porcelain. Art
work is benefited to the extent of ⅛th. more
than plain goods. Art is less protected
than workmanship, since the cost of skilled
and unskilled labor is greater here than in
Europe. Consequently there is little to in-
duce manufacturers to turn out art unless
some profit can be drawn from the reputa-
tion it brings. I do not intend to discuss
the question of protection versus free trade,
I only speak of the tariff to show the diffi-
culty of building up something worthy to
be called American art. To illustrate.—A
porcelain plate was made at Greenpoint,
N.Y., on a challenge. It was a copy of a
plate in the possession of Mr. George Luck
by whom it was purchased at the sale of the
effects of Louis Phillippe. The plate was
from Sevres, decorated chiefly in gold.
The Greenpoint copy was made to test the
question whether American decoration
might not in time be made to equal the
Sevres. Those who saw both had great
difficulty in distinguishing the original from
the copy made and many could not do
so without examining the ware. The
challenge was fully met, and should it
be asked why such work could not be done
here continually, the reply is, the state of
the market so far as the demand for Ameri-
can art is concerned, is such that prices will
barely cover the cost of production. Presi-
dent Smith at the convention of Potters
Association, says foreign clays can be put
down cheaper in New York than Penn.
clays by 15 per cent. Expense is not the
only drawback. It is a fact that while 
native manufacturers advance and find
ready reception, native art must force its
way to recognition; its first honors must
be won abroad; it must bear a foriegn
stamp to be accepted in the home of its
birth.
	This is so good a market that foreign
artists send their works here, sure of a wel-
come. Competition by an American
though a superior is difficult.
	A foreign artist comes branded as a gen.
ius and home critics hesitate to give a ver-
dict in favor of their own countryman; they
lack confidence in their own judgment and
prefer to take another’s opinion than give
their own. On one side is the work of one
who has won praise in Europe; on the
other that of one who makes an appeal to
their own judgment. Under such condi-
tions the American artist is discouraged.
	French art is to a Frenchman the finest
in the world; Englishmen support English
art because it is their own. They are satis-
fied with it if all the world wonder at the
thing they cherish; it is good to them and
that is enough. American art may be
good, equal to the best, but it is American.
Receiving no notice the artist loses the
benefit of criticism and concludes that his
own people complement themselves by be-
lieving that no work of art can be produced
among them.
	This may seem overdrawn but facts are
eloquent. It has been said Americans take
pride in their manufactures; that of pottery
is an exception. Almost everywhere
granite ware can be seen bearing as mark
the royal arms of England and with the
mottoes in full Uni soit qui mal y pense,
which in this case seems to be very appro-
priate. The ware may have been made in
Trenton or anywhere else in America, but
the dealer will not buy it without the

[Column 3]
English mark. It is a strange mark for an
American potter, and a sad and shameful
comment on American flunkeyism.
	Inquiry brings out the fact that their
customers look for the English mark and
finding it buy; thus there is no question of
superiority but simply of a name. In the
matter of porcelain, that made in this
country is sold every day for French, Ger-
man and English. No objection is made
to the finish, durability or decoration, but
its parentage must be concealed in order to
sell it. Art grows slowly, especially in a
country so largely commercial as America,
so when it does make its appearance it
should be treated with respect to hasten its
growth; America is in this respect an ex-
ception to the nations of the earth.
	In France, Germany, Prusia, Russia, Italy
China and England the Ceramic art receiv-
ed the support of Government and w[-]althy
patrons. In America such support is
neither given nor required, only apprecia-
tion is desired. In a Republic the people
are the rulers and patrons. Prejudice in
art is the end of criticism; prejudice in
commerce is suicidal. The materials for
making every kind of ware are found in
this country. As early as 1766 American
clays were taken to England, and the great
Wedgewood at that time, more than a hun-
dred years ago, expressed fears for the
earthern wares of England, because of some
“new pot makers,” as he expressed it, in
South Carolina. It is to say the least
amusing to think that after one hundred
years of pottery we still patronize
Europe.
	The greatest progress in making porce-
lain in America has been made since 1860,
and now there are more than one thousand
potteries in the United States. The capital
invested by the forty firms of the American
Potters Association is $4.000,000. One of
the oldest firms the Robertsons, have mas-
tered the secret of the Howland process of
applying colors upon unbaked clay and
have produced some fine specimens.
	Thus it will be seen that we neither lack
material or ability to cope with the best
foreign productions, all that is necessary is
for the people of this country to divert
themselves of the idea that a foreign stamp
is necessary to make a thing good, and
wear the mantle of their Americanism as
proudly and as independently as a Roman
wears his toga.
	In this brief paper upon Ceramics much
has been omitted that would be interesting
to the students of porcelain, but I could
only touch upon different points that have
led us down through the centuries, from
the sun-dried bricks of Egypt to the beauti-
ful porcelain of Greenpoint, N. Y.
						S. L. M.


