Literature (Third Week in October)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
LESSON I
"Books without the knowledge of life are useless, for what should books teach us but the art of living." ?Dr. Samuel Johnson.
IN the "Book of Literature," Man, the author, has recorded his experiences in the pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful in Life. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for man to attain his highest development. History has recorded the material facts of human progress; discovery, conquest, expansion, dominion. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for Happiness.
Life and Literature.
THE world in which man found himself was a world of mystery. The external world, the world of Nature, was his first problem. He must live; nutrition and security he must have. The inner world, the world of Self, of appetites, passions, emotions, impulses, provided never-ending conflicts. Then there were the universal mysteries, Life and Death. Man learned first to conquer; then to understand.
In the conquest of the external world, man became a hero. During the dawn of civilization, Man recorded in his "Book of Literature" his heroic experiences. As the ages passed, man sought to understand. Now he dealt in ideas. He made for himself simple explanations of the mysteries that baffled him. These explanations were made in human terms; thus to him, day came when Apollo drove the chariot of the sun across the sky, and when one day the strange phenomenon of an eclipse of the sun occurred, it was because Apollo had allowed his inexperienced son to drive the chariot. These beautiful story-explanations were recorded as myths.
Later the mind of man became dissatisfied with the primitive explanations; his desire for that which is true grew apace. Man's quest for truth has provided the world with that body of information known as scientific fact with all its utilitarian values.
Gradually, there arose in man a new need. He was surrounded by Good and Evil; he became aware of the constructive and destructive forces at work in the world. This was a spiritual need; he needed to know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality. But most of all he needed an ethical code for his guidance. Out of the early spiritual experiences of man grew the beginnings of the systems of philosophy and ethics which have been refining factors of civilization.
Similarly, man became aware of Beauty. He saw that harmony was beautiful; he felt it also. The desire came first to represent that which was beautiful; later, man desired to create that which was beautiful. This was the origin of Art.
For centuries Man's "Book of Literature" existed in oral form. Out of his desire for a permanent record, the art of writing grew. Only a few of the civilizations that rose, flourished, and died when the world was young enshrined their heroism and their wisdom in the permanent form of literature. Don Marquis, one of today's singers, gives a reason for the oblivion of the others:
"By Tigris o'er the streams of Ind, Ere Colchis rose, or Babylon, Forgotten empires dreamed or sinned, Setting tall towns against the dawn.
They built with gold and bronze and brawn, The inner Vision still denied, Their conquests?Ask oblivion, 'They had no poet, and they died.'"
The Making of Literature.
LITERATURE is an art of expression. Life-experience is the material out of which all great literature is made. It may be made of the experience of a single individual, as Shelley's "Ode to a Skylark;" it may be made of the experience of a nation, as Homer's "Iliad;" it may be made of the experience of a religion, as Milton's "Paradise Lost." As such expression literature becomes the foremost of the great humanities. Also, as such, it is a record, a criticism, a prophecy. As a record it presents life as it appears; as a criticism of life it is an explanation and an interpretation; as a prophecy of life "it reveals the hidden loveliness of the world, it points out the ideal that is ever seeking to push through the husks of things to reveal the inner spiritual reality."
The art of expression is not an accident; the makers of literature have striven first, to follow the Sophoclean example "to see life steadily and see it whole," then, to attain a beauty of form and expression: The Greek genius, zest for life, keen power of analysis, thirst for knowledge, splendid originality, vigorous imagination, fondness for beauty, when applied to literature yielded a product which has remained unexcelled through the ages. Aristotle, at the close of the creative epoch of Greek life, looked at the literary product of his race and recorded the principles which had made for perfection. This first literary lawmaker in the "Poetics" gave to makers of literature the doctrine of art?a work of art is a likeness of the original, or a reproduction as it appears to the individual, or an expression of the universal element in human life, or an idealized representation of human life.
Latin literature followed the classic tradition established by the Greeks. Horace, the great Latin satirist, added the principle that literature was "to instruct and to delight." Longinus (lon ji nus) in the third century, evolved the principle of sublimity "to lift one out of oneself."
The classic pattern of literature lay hidden during the Dark Ages. Early Christian influence in Europe stifled any freedom of expression with its "other worldliness" and its censorial attitude. Medieval Europe recorded its romance in ballad and story through its troubadors and minstrels.
Then came the re-discovery of the Greek and Latin classics. The invention of printing, the Reformation, the discovery of the New World marked the passing of the old order of things and ushered in an intellectual new-birth. The great literary product of the Elizabethan Age was the result in England. In France also there was a period of great literary productivity. The French sought to follow slavishly the classic tradition, allowing no liberality. They denounced the Elizabethans; Shakespeare for too much romance, Sir Philip Sydney for claiming for the poet "that he may teach, that he may delight, that he may move," Dryden for his theory that literature was an organic force which develops with the nation and the age. The battle of the chief makers of literature raged for almost a century. Freedom came with a new school of writers, Lessing and Goethe in Germany, Coleridge and Wordsworth in England. Poetry now became "the blossom and the fragrance of all human knowledge, human thoughts, human passions, emotions, language."
The last century produced two great literary guides, Matthew Arnold and Sainte-Beuve (sant buv). Matthew Arnold, the English poet and critic, wrote that "Poetry is a criticism of life?The true end of art, and of poetry especially is, like religion to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Sainte-Beuve, the greatest of French critics, claimed that a true classic "enriches the human mind, discovers some great truth, reveals some eternal passion?in no matter what literary form only provided it be broad and great, refined and sensible, sane and beautiful in itself." So spoke Homer to the human race as he told an epic story, so also did Sophocles in dramas revealing the victoriousness of life, so also did Shakespeare in the delineation of human character.
As a revolt against the moral values of literature supported by the writings and teachings of the great critics, Arnold and Sainte-Beuve, there arose a new claim, that of "Art for Art's Sake." This conflict continues.
Today a comparatively new literary form is creating much consternation with its growing pains, fiction, that form into which experience is cast by means of the imagination. The present age is a "Battle of Books." Commercialism and fashion are the literary rulers. It is a new age, the industrial age. Life has new materials, wealth, luxury, and power with hunger, injustice, and reaction stalking alongside. The makers of literature in the present age have difficult tasks. The man of today will be heroic, what beautiful, what moral? Fiction, in the throes of the struggle with commercialism, is in the refining stage. Less hampered than the fiction makers, the poets are singing bravely and well. Through revolt and struggle a new humanism is molding literature, a democratic humanism.
For obvious reasons the ordinary reader needs guidance. Literary counsel is not far to seek, and there is an abundance of it. Fashion and counsel should not be confused. Counsel follows the traditional path, the way of the makers of great books; fashion follows the path of popularity. Emerson in discussing the value of literary counsel states: "Nothing is more important for the reader who loves literature than to become intimately acquainted with its great makers; for they alone can guide him in his judgments, can teach him to distinguish merit, and can enable him to estimate literary values for himself."
To be wise in the ways of the makers of literature "helps the ear to listen when the horns of Elfland blow."
The Enjoyment of Literature.
THE world of the reader is a wonderful world. He can sail the seas with Ulysses, explore the depths and the highest heaven with Dante, listen to the sweet songs of Sappho and Shelley, learn wisdom from Socrates and Emerson, and laugh with Sam Weller and Tom Sawyer. The reader's friends, as his adventures, are legion. From all ages and climes they gather at his bidding; Joseph the dreamer, Andromache, Hamlet, Dr. Johnson and Boswell will be among them.
"Books of Power," "Best Sellers of the Ages," "Much Loved Books" are some of the names given to the great masterpieces of Literature. It has been said that one who has read the Hebrew prophets, the Greek dramatists, and Shakespeare has a view of the greatness of life necessary for true enjoyment.
"Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good, Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." ?Wordsworth.
Sohrab and Rustum?Matthew Arnold.
The Poet's Way.
THE source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways; to Wordsworth, it was the "spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to "AE" it was "the King in His beauty," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes on life he finds the hidden message that is waiting its spiritual expression. Many of the great masters of literature have used the classic pattern to carry their inspiration to mankind.
The Poet. Matthew Arnold.
SINCE the Golden Age of Greece there has been no sincerer admirer and student of the classic tradition than the English poet, Matthew Arnold. His activity as a poet belongs to the earlier part of his life. In addition to "Sohrab and Rustum" his best poetical works include a beautiful version of the medieval legend of "Tristram and Iseult" and "Rugby Chapel," a tribute to his father, the renowned headmaster of Rugby. In 1851 he became the government inspector of schools in Great Britain, which position he held for thirty-five years. In later life he became a leading apostle of culture, through the lectures and essays embodying his ideals. Because of the nature and quality of his writings, Matthew Arnold holds a high place among the great masters of literature.
The Poem.
"SOHRAB AND RUSTUM" is a noble poem. With a sustained grandeur of style, a simplicity of language, and a wealth of graphic detail the author tells a poignantly tragic story. From the echoes of the mist-land of ancient Persia came the story. The poet Firdusi (f?r dou's?) (born 935 A. D.) recorded the story as part of the epic poem "Shah Nameh" (shah na ma), the Persian "Book of Kings." Firdusi was commanded by his king to gather the chronicles of Persia from the earliest heroic times, 3600 B. C., and weave them into a poem so that:
"No tide Shall wash away what men Unborn shall read o'er ocean wide."
Arnold took from the poem the tragic story of the great national hero, Rustum (rtis'ttm), who unwittingly slays his own son, Sohrab. Love of family is the human note in the story. Sohrab seeks to be worthy of his renowned father; Rustum longs for a valiant warrior son. Over the story hangs the mist of Oriental fate; "Fate always gets where it will." The land of the Persians is being overrun by the Tartars, and in "the carnage wide blood flowed like water." In their great distress the Persians implored their great leader, Zal, the greatest warrior the world had ever known, to come to their aid. The ancient warrior sent his son, Rustum, to fight in his stead. Rustum had just taken as his bride the beautiful princess, Tamineh (ta min'ah). Rustum went when called by his father to fight for his king. In due time the lovely Tamineh gave birth to a beautiful boy whom she called Sohrab (sunshine), but fearing lest Rustum should take him away and train him as a warrior, she sent word to him that she had given birth to a daughter. Rustum was kept so busy with the wars that he never once visited his wife while his son was growing up. For a long time Tamineh jealously guarded the secret of Sohrab's birth. But when she could no longer keep him from going forth to battle, she told him her story:
"Listen, my child, and you shall hear Of the wondrous love of a maiden dear For a mighty warrior, the pride of his day Who loved, and married, and rode away, For this is the romance of Rustum." ?"Shah Nameh."
The lad, who had always cherished a romantic admiration for Rustum, was overjoyed to learn of his origin. Sohrab joined Afrasiab, the chief of the Tartars, to further a plan to overthrow the Persian king and to place Rustum on the throne. The war raged on giving the young warrior many adventures. Sohrab, anxious for an opportunity to distinguish himself, challenged the Persians to a single combat:
"Come then, hear now, and grant me what I ask. Let the two armies rest today; but I Will challenge forth the bravest Persian lords To meet me, man to man; if I prevail, Rustum will surely hear it; if I fall? Old man, the dead need no one, claim no kin. Dim is the rumor of a common fight, Where host meets host, and many names are sunk; But of a single combat fame speaks clear."
Peran-Wisa, the old Tartar general, pleaded with the restless youth:
"But, if this one desire indeed rules all, To seek out Rustum?seek him not through fight! Seek him in peace, and carry to his arms O Sohrab, carry an unwounded son!"
The pleading was in vain, so Peran Wisa took the challenge to the Persian camp. None of the Persians would volunteer to meet Sohrab, so they appealed to Rustum. At first he refused to be moved by Sohrab's vaunts. Later, however, he is moved to action, and agrees to fight unknown and in plain arms. Sohrab came forth, came seeking Rustum. The old warrior wondered as he eyed the adventurous youth:
"Who was he For very young he seemed, tenderly reared Like some young cypress, tall, and dark, and straight, Which in a queen's secluded garden throws Its slight dark shadow on the moonlit turf, By midnight, to a bubbling fountain's sound? So slender Sohrab seemed, so softly reared. And a deep pity entered Rustum's soul As he beheld him coming;.... 'O Sohrab, wherefore wilt thou rush on death?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Be governed; quit the Tartar host, and come To Iran, and be as my son to me, And fight beneath my banner till I die! There are no youths in Iran brave as thou. So he spake, mildly;'"
Sohrab was strangely moved, and, running to meet him, begged to know his name, for he had premonition that this was Rustum. Notwithstanding Sohrab's eager inquiries, Rustum refused to divulge his name:
"And then he turned and sternly spake aloud? 'Rise! Wherefore dost thou vainly question thus Of Rustum? I am here whom thou hast called By challenge forth; make good thy vaunt or yield! Is it with Rustum only thou wouldst fight?"
For three consecutive days father and son fought. Several times the son proposed that they sheathe their swords, for his heart continued to be attracted to his opponent, who, fighting down similar emotions, always taunted his antagonist into renewing the fight. On the fifth day Rustum, forgetting everything in the excitement of the moment, met his foe with his usual war cry, "Rustum, Rustum." Sohrab, hearing the shout, stood bewildered, and instead of meeting the onslaught, he sank beneath his father's blow:
"For that beloved name unnerved my arm,? That name, and something, I confess, in thee, Which troubles all my heart, and made my shield Fall; and thy spear transfixed an unarmed foe. The mighty Rustum shall avenge my death! My father, whom I seek through all the world, He shall avenge my death, and punish thee!"
On hearing these words, Rustum anxiously demanded explanations, only to learn that he had mortally wounded his own son. The father would gladly have died with his son in his anguish but Sohrab pleaded:
"Desire not that, my father! Thou must live. For some are born to do great deed, and live, As some are born to be obscured, and die."
And "Awe fell on both the hosts, When they saw Rustum's grief."
The poem is more than an episode, it is a perfect illustration of what Matthew Arnold meant by his claim that literature "is a criticism of life."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials.
1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 1-3.....................Macy
2. The Outline of Literature.......................Drinkwater
3. What Literature Can Do for Me...................Smith
4. The Appreciation of Literature.................Woodberry
5. Sohrab and Rustum...........................Arnold
B. Program.
1. Music. Poems set to music?The poems of Robert Burns.
2. Discussion. A. The Making of Books. B. The Making of Literature.
3. Reading. A. Passages from "Sohrab and Rustum." B. Lines 515-890 to conclude the narrative.
C. Method. The lesson is planned as an introductory lesson for the entire course. It is necessary that the argument be given careful consideration. The aim of the lesson is the