Lesson Department]

Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
OBEDIENCE TO LAW THE BASIS OF REWARD
LESSON X
1. Sectarian Conception of Grace. The grace of God as conceived and taught by numerous sectarian organizations is the unmerited love and favor of Deity, especially as shown in the salvation freely provided for mankind. In a word, the doctrine teaches that Deity extends salvation to whomsoever he chooses, irrespective of their works or deserts. Accordingly, the earthly deeds of God's children are not determining factors in the condition of future life. In still other words, rewards of eternal life are not given on the basis of merit, but rather as the result of Divine will. Nor is this interpretation entirely without scriptural support; that is in isolated passages. For example: In his epistle to the saints at Ephesus, Paul the apostle declares, "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2:8, 9.) Paul conveys essentially the same thought in his second letter to the saints at Corinth, as follows, which are the words of Christ to him: "My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness." (II Corinthians 12:9.) According to the point of view set out at the beginning of this paragraph, the scriptures just quoted are interpreted to mean that the grace of God is sufficient unto salvation irrespective of the deeds of those upon whom it falls.
2. An Application of this Point of View. The writer of this lesson at one time lived in the same neighborhood as an old woman who raised and sold flowers for a living. She loved her flowers; they were almost a part of her, and she was generous in giving them to her friends. I have seen her repeatedly pass my home, knee-deep in snow, with her arms filled with flowers as a gift to a sympathizing friend. In course of time she died. She had not been a member of any church; indeed, it is doubtful that she had even formally acknowledged faith in the saving grace of God. A simple funeral service was arranged at the home and a sectarian minister was invited to officiate. Among other things, he voiced his regret that the woman had not confessed belief in Christ, and expressed fear that because of this any reward for her in the future was gravely uncertain.
3. At about the same time a rollicking school boy of fourteen years returned to his home, in the same neighborhood, for his noon-day luncheon. His mother, a widow, was a school teacher and hence was away from home. The boy opened the front door and went through a long hall to the kitchen, where, greatly to his surprise, he found a thief ransacking the house. The boy ran toward the front door, and while doing so the thief shot him in the back. The momentum of the boy's body carried him through the front door, across the porch, and on to the lawn, where he died before being able to tell what had happened. In course of time, the murderer was apprehended, tried, and adjudged guilty. On the day set for his execution he called in his spiritual adviser and confessed guilt. Whereupon he was assured that all was well with his soul.
4. It is needless to say that circumstances such as these are an offense to good judgment. It is everything but reasonable to assume that Deity would consign the old woman to everlasting punishment, and the murderer to eternal bliss. Such a thing would be abhorrent even to the basest of human beings. It is little wonder, therefore, that sectarianism is unattractive to many people who believe in the justice of God and who therefore deny themselves the advantage of church affiliation, which otherwise they would choose to accept. Christianity, alas, has suffered much because of man's inability properly to interpret it.
5. Necessity of Good Works. It is difficult to understand why the doctrine of unmerited rewards is acceptable to any believer in Christ, unless it is because of the widespread desire among men to obtain something for nothing, since the doctrine is unfair to both God and man. Even Paul's statement to the Ephesians, upon which the "grace" conception of salvation is largely based, does not teach the futility of good works. Indeed, quite to the contrary. After declaring himself with respect to the potency of grace (Ephesians 2:8, 9) he emphatically states that men are the workmanship of God "created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them." (Ephesians 2:10.) This point alone makes the truth perfectly clear that good works are basic to the grace of God and indispensable to those who receive Divine favor.
6. Listen further, however, to the words of this same Paul to his beloved Titus, whom he describes as his "own son after the common faith:" "This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men." (Titus 3:8.) To the Romans Paul declared that "the judgment of God is according to truth," and that he "will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life: but unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath." (Romans 2:6-8.)
7. James, a disciple of Christ, was even more emphatic. To the scattered tribes of Israel he said: "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." (James 1:22.) Again: "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. * * * Wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? * * * For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." (James 2:14-26.) The unmistakable words of the apostle John are well known to all: "He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby we know that we are in him." (I John 2:4, 5.) The same disciple further declares: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (Revelation 20:12.)
8. By Grace Are Ye Saved. On the other hand, perhaps no one would defend the idea that man, unaided by divine power, is able to save himself in the kingdom of God, irrespective of the character of his works. In other words, man alone is wholly impotent to bring himself back into the presence of the Father. Such being the case, it is evident that the necessary help must be freely extended to him from on high. Moreover, it will hardly be argued that Deity is under any obligation whatsoever to give this help. It is evident, therefore, that salvation is a free gift from God to man. Men are thus truly and literally saved by the grace of God, not by their works lest they should boast.
9. But let us hasten to another viewpoint. An illustration may assist to better understanding. In many of the larger educational institutions of the world, so-called fellowships and scholarships have been established for the assistance of deserving students. The purpose behind the launching of these benefits is wholly philanthropic. The founder is under no obligation to those for whom he thus provides; his offering is a free gift. But it being a free gift, the donor is likewise free to name the conditions under which the benefits shall be allowed. High scholastic standing, good moral character, physical fitness, dependability, industry, etc., are usually placed foremost among the stipulated requirements. These rewards are everywhere known to be free gifts from the founder, and it is also known that they cannot be obtained without making the necessary preparation.
10. It need scarcely be said that these coveted scholarships are never awarded to indifferent or unprepared students, but only to those who have equipped themselves to properly benefit by the gift. It cannot be said that even the worthy student has earned the reward, since the donor is in no way obligated to offer it. The benefit is thus a free gift to those who prepare themselves to meet the stipulations.
11. So it is with the blessings of God. Deity is not obligated to save men in his kingdom. Conversely, men have no ability of their own to reach it. Deity, on the other hand, has offered the gift of salvation to all of those who properly prepare themselves. Salvation is thus a free gift from God; it is by his grace that men are saved. But Deity, like the donor of educational scholarships, extends the reward only to those who meet his requirements.
12. Futility of Unmerited Rewards. The uselessness of unmerited rewards should be apparent without comment. No advantage could accrue, for example, to the indifferent and failing student by giving him a scholarship to an educational institution for which he had made no preparation, since the advanced facilities thus offered would have no meaning for him. Likewise, it would be futile to send a man to heaven who had not made requisite preparation; a murderer, for example, would be ill at ease in the presence of the Master. People are able to enjoy only those things for which they are prepared. This matter is made exceptionally clear in the following statement of the Lord relating to the future condition of men's spirits: "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore, he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. & C. 88:22-24.)
13. Obedience a Basic Requirement. Perhaps the most pertinent instruction ever given by Deity to man relative to the necessity of obedience is the following: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. & C. 130:21, 22.) This information was given April 2, 1843, at Ramus, Illinois,