RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in slightly different language, as follows: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C. 132:5.).
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what sense are men actually saved by the grace of God and not by their own works? Is salvation a gift from God? Why?
2. Why is the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards contrary to the wisdom and justice of God?
3. Why is it possible for man to enjoy only those things for which he has made preparation?
4. Why are good works a pre-requisite to salvation? Why would it be impossible for a hardened sinner to enjoy the presence of God?
5. Why do good works prepare one for the enjoyment of God's blessings? Why is it that laggards do not enjoy, say, the reading of good books?
Teachers' Topic
THE GREAT OBJECTIVE OF LIFE
The great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and to become like God.
Scriptural Text: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." Abraham 3:25-26.
"Man is that he might have joy." 2 Nephi 2:25.
References: Moses 1:38-39; Matt. 5:48, 6:33; Rev. 21:7.
The pre-existent state was one of preparation and proving for the second estate, to see if the spirits of men would be worthy of this earth-life, or mortality. Spirits were unable to obtain an exaltation without bodies of flesh and bones and the experiences of mortality. The earth-life is of two-fold nature (a) That spirits who kept their first estate might be clothed with tabernacles of flesh and bones in preparation for the resurrection and immortality and eternal life; (b) That all who receive bodies might in this life be proved and found worthy or otherwise.
Our worthiness brings a fulness of joy. Discuss what a fulness of joy means. The great battle of life is the pursuit of happiness, and we should have joy in this life as well as the life to come. Brigham Young said: "Our work is a work of the present. The salvation we are seeking is for the present and sought correctly, it can be obtained, and be continually enjoyed. I am decidedly in favor of practical religion of everyday useful life, and if I today attend to what devolves upon me to do, and then do that which presents itself tomorrow, and so on, when eternity comes I will be prepared to enter in the things of eternity."
Our joy now and in life to come is dependent on progression made here. "Progression is the successfully meeting problems of this life day by day, a harmonious development of all our powers."
We should be thoroughly impressed with the fact that character building is the most important business of this mortal life, for true character brings to the individual joy now, and helps to bring a fulness of joy in the life to come. "Be ye therefore perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect." This is the goal we are seeking.