[Vol18 | September 1931 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Notes Field]
Sister Elizabeth Wallis, in company with her husband, Bishop James H. Wallis, who was called to be Patriarch of the European Mission, left in May for her new field.

We will truly miss our co-worker, for she has given loving and untiring service in our stake, and we wish her much joy and success in her new labor." Grant Stake: HE custom of the Grant Stake Societies to put on a stake enterprise each season, was sucessfully carried out this year by the production of the pageant given on the evenings of March 17 and 18, in commemoration of the 89th anniversary of the Relief Society organization.

"Inasmuch as the Relief Society was studying the Book of Mormon, President Winnifred B. Daynes felt it would be appropriate to depict in pageantry the ancient inhabitants of our country as told in the Nephite records.

Professor E. H. Eastmond had given successful presentations of "Voices from the Dust," which he had arranged.

This suited our needs, so was therefore chosen by the board members.

Songs, scenes and incidents correlating with the above work were introduced by the stake director, Mrs. Dott White, which added color and action.

Characters worthy of the parts were selected from all the wards in the stake, including Bishops, High Councilmen, and faithful Relief Society workers.

The eight Nephite prophets and fone Lamanite seer stepped out of the book of Mormon, each preceded by an allegorical character, paving the way for the message these propnets gave.

And the Spirit of Restoration introduced the Latter-day prophet— Joseph Smith.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD "The music, under the leadership of the Relief Society chorister, Mrs. Ida Horne White, was very effective, and the singers were all well trained, including the 60 children who represented the stars of the morning.

There were 180 who participated in the production.

The scenery was well chosen, the costumes of the ancient leaders and the lighting effects blended into the spirit of the occasion, making an interesting and beautiful rendition from beginning to end.

"Assisting the director was Mrs. Jennie Chamberlain; the board members also gave willing and untiring service and cooperation, which is the big factor in the success of the Grant Stake Relief Society.

"It is estimated that 5,000 people enjoyed this performance, and the respectful, appreciative audience contributed much to the success of this pleasing entertainment." Logan Stake: N the evening of June 5, 1931, the Logan stake Relief Society celebrated its eleventh anniversary by entertaining all ward officers and teachers of the Relief Society in the stake.

This event was held in the Logan 2nd Ward Amusement Hall.

There were over 300 present.

Refreshments were served.

A one-act play, "Sewing for the Heathens," was successfully presented by the members of the Logan Second Ward Relief Society.

A trio, "Sing to the Lord," words written by Margaret Watson, Logan 11th ward, music composed by Lillie D. Meacham, Stake Board organist, was sung by members of the Logan llth ward Relief Society.

The Logan lst ward chorus sang several selections.

A sketch representing what has been done in the past, what is being done during the present time, and what we hope to accomplish in the future, was presented in 525 tableau form, by members of the stake board.

This sketch was written and directed by Irene Naisbitt of the Logan llth ward.

It was read by Mrs. Naisbitt as each tableau was shown.

Everyone who saw it was very much impressed.

A booklet, which the members of the Stake Board compiled as a souvenir, was presented to those who attended the entertainment.

The invitation which was sent out to each one was in the form of a clever miniature apron in blue, stitched with gold, the Relief Society colors.

In the pocket of the apron was the following invitation: This little apron is sent to you, On it a pocket you'll find.

An invitation it carries, true blue, Requesting that you with us dine.

For truly our Anniversary Day In program and fun we'll observe, Refreshments are free, surprises, but stay, The secret we must reserve.

Now measure your waist 'round inch by inch And when the total you've found For each little inch a penny cinch Safe and snug in the pocket round.

And your pennies shall purchase a prize for you, Of joy and remembrance quite rare.

A treasure you'll value as others will do— A gift of the years you shall share.

The proceeds were used to cover the expense of publishing the booklet.

Every ward complied with the instructions of the General Board and planted a Norway Maple tree on their respective ward grounds, but inasmuch as there was no room on the Tabernacle grounds for any more trees, and on the Temple grounds were as many Norway Maples as they wished to have, our Stake Presidency suggested that we substitute another tree.

Hence the reason for planting a Mountain Ash, as requested by President Shepherd.
