Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1906					No. 5


CONTENTS.
A Trip to England..............................................	33
R. S. Los Angeles, California............................	34
Notes..................................................................	34
Mystifications....................................................	35
Federal Suffrage Bill, H. R. 5360......................	37
In Memoriam.....................................................	38
Obituary.............................................................	38
Relief Society Reports—Snowflake—Taylor—
	Alpine........................................................	39
Notes and News.................................................	40
Editorial:—Thanksgiving Day—Unveiling of
	Bronze Tablet............................................	36
	A Chronicle of The Relief Society............	37
	Agnes Cross Douglass..............................	37
Poetry—Joseph Smith, the Nineteenth Century
	Prophet...............................Nellie Becroft	33
	Let Something Good be Said...................
		.................... James Whitcomb Riley	35
	Farewell............................. Ellis R. Shipp	35
	Autumn........................... Louise Coulson	35


[Column 1]
JOSEPH SMITH, THE NINETEENTH CEN-
			TURY PROPHET.

Ere earth was formed for man’s abode, our Proph-
	et Joseph, honored Seer,
Stood ’mong the great and noble ones, of heaven’s
	mighty hosts, a peer;
God, seeing all their excellence, their truth, their
	valor and their worth,
Said, “these will I my rulers make,” as they shall 
	sojourn on the earth.
As epochs, dispensations passed, these noble ones,
	by heaven decreed,
Each came, allotted part fulfilled, at time and
	place as God had need.
Joseph, reserved till latter days, a great and
	mighty work was given,
Gathering, restoring keys and powers, ere Christ
	shall reign on earth as heaven.
As gushing rivulet and stream, in swift and ever
	onward sweep,
At length are merged in ocean wave and swell the
	waters of the deep,
So dispensations merge and blend, in one sublime,
	harmonious whole,
And Joseph stands aye more than peer, as ages,
	cycles o’er him roll.

At nineteenth century’s dawn he came, this Pro-
	phet babe, from heaven sent forth,
Hfs destiny how great and grand! his mission to
	illumine earth—
Long had the world in error lain, no voice from
	God, no gospel plan—
Gross darkness brooded over all, the heavens
	were brass to fallen man.
But lo! a faint light hovered, gleamed, o’er the
	boy prophet as he grew,
And yet a youth—Father and Son, in glory burst
	through azure blue,
And Father said, “This is my Son, hear Him,” in
	everything He says,
For man has strayed and mighty work must needs
	be done in latter days.
Angels as tutors now were sent, his great work
	fitting him to do;
The Priesthood they again restored, with gifts and
	blessings old and new. 
Grandly equipped, by heaven, he rose with pow-
	er confronted all the world,
Denounced their creeds and theories, the while
	Truth’s standard he unfurled.
How Satan raged! and Joseph’s name was had
	by men “for good and ill,”
But Christ who calmed that storm at sea, said now
	to Joseph, “Peace, be still,”
And thus mid all the scoffs and jeers a cold and
	cruel world could give,
He stood majestic, facing right, and taught men
	how to righteous live.

Communication was restored, just as of old, ’twixt
	earth and heaven,
Man felt the all-awakening force, though knew he
	not from whence ’twas given,
Yet he achieved, he wrought, he soared, he
	boasted, O thou puny man!
The rapid, giant strides you’ve made were but to
	aid the gospel plan.

[Column 2]
Forgetting not his mother’s sex, for womanhood
	he turned the key;
Unfettered she arose and grasped the scope of her
	grand destiny;
O daughters all of mother Eve! O womankind
	where’er you be!
Know this: the Prophet Joseph Smith this era
	brought to you and me.
Through him was every key restored, not one
	small thing was left undone,
He lived in deeds far more than years for soon to
	him came setting sun;
But life and labors were complete, finished was
	his great work on earth,
The dead awaited his approach, so death was but
	another birth.
Then sing all ye angelic hosts! rejoice ye saints
	throughout the earth!
And celebrate as fit each year the day of his aus-
	picious birth,
Then sing ye saints of latter days and take ye up
	the sweet refrain,
Our martyred Prophet lives again and will with
	God forever reign.
Ye nations, peoples, far and near, who gaze with
	awe on what ye see,
Our nineteenth century Prophet turned the twen-
	tieth century’s wondrous key.
And yet, 'mid light and knowledge rife, destruc-
	tion spreads her sable pall
Because of greed, of lust, of wrong, God’s hand is
	writing on the wall.
					NELLIA BECROFT.


[Column 1]
		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
	Desirous of obtaining genealogy, and
needing a vacation, as we were somewhat
run down in health, my husband and I
came to the conclusion that we would
take a trip to the old country, conse-
quently we left Bingham Co., Idaho, in
May, for Salt Lake City, visiting also
Taylorsville and Provo, on the way, to
have a look at old friends. Afterwards we
boarded a Pullman car from Salt Lake on
the 27th of the month. It was very pleas-
sant traveling, as we could lie down at
night at our ease, and scarcely knew that
we were traveling. Next day was Sun-
day, and at ten a. m. we were seven hun-
dred miles from Ogden. No wonder they
call this train a flyer the way it sped
along, the pouring rain being no obstacle.
At 5:15 p. m. we were in Iowa, and at
daylight next morning in the State of
Illinois. Just as we got through break-
fast we learned that we were in Chicago.
We checked our luggage for Boston, and
very soon were in the State of Indiana,
then in Ohio, and soon we were passing
lots of oil wells and timberland.
	May 30, we changed cars at Buffalo en-
joyed some beautiful scenery; before the
day passed, we became acquainted with
two ladies who were going to Europe.
After passing Mohawk river, we were not
far from Boston.
	Arriving at Boston on the same day,
near dark, we found that one of these
ladies was going to Liverpool, and in-
tended getting in the same boat with us.
This fact seemed to please both parties.
This lady, I believe, said she was a pro-
fessional nurse, had worked in some of
the best families in Salt Lake City, was
acquainted with quite a number of our
people, said she could not have been bet-
ter treated than she had been by the
Latter-day Saints.

[Column 2]
	While at the hotel in Boston. we be-
came acquainted with three Elders. One
was Brother Smith, from Cottonwood,
the other was Brother Moench, from
Ogden, and the other was Brother Ken-
intson. We were introduced to a Sister
Neilson, from Ammon, Idaho, not far
from our home, but up to this time unac-
quainted she was going in the same
steamer, on her way to Denmark to join
her husband, who was there filling a mis-
sion.
	We got on board the vessel, “The Re-
public,” just before meal time. We were
told to select our seat, all of them being
numbered, and to keep the same seats
while on the voyage. So we “Mormons,”
as the term goes, sat together enjoying
ourselves with others who asked to be in
our party on board. Different counten-
ances bespoke of a variety of thought and
feelings, some looked sorrowful, having
just parted with their loved ones, while
others, their countenances beamed with
delight at the thoughts of the vacation
and rest they were about to realize; oth-
ers appeared fearful of getting seasick; as
I was always under the impression that
there are more passengers sick on the first
day than any other time, or later on I
asked the stewardess if it were so. She
answered in the negative; said when the
ship was right out in the ocean we feel
the motion of the vessel more, conse-
quently there were more sick about the
fourth day. Then some have their appe-
tites sharpened by the sea breeze and do
not restrain, therefore they get a little
bilious about that time.
	On the morning of the second day we
felt a little unsteady on first getting up,
but decided to eat nothing but a lemon,
and hurry on deck to get all the fresh air
obtainable, which was plenty. We even
forgot that there was anything like sea-
sickness. However, most of the passen-
gers were enjoying themselves. and soon
passing the time reading, conversing and
writing, also promenading the vessel and
some singing as they walked the deck.
	Some of our Elders commenced lend-
ing literature. Two ladies were very
much interested in the Articles of Faith,
said there was some grand reading in
those books.
	After a few days, when it became gen-
erally known that there were “Mormons”
on board, one man who was getting quite
popular called out, “Who wants to go to
Utah to join the ‘Mormons?’” When
he found, however, that this attempt at,
ridicule was not appreciated, he did not
seem to care to try it again. One of the
Scotch ladies before mentioned said to
this man. “Well, if these young men are
‘Mormons,’ their behavior is excellent. I
have been watching; they do not sit up in
the long hours of the night singing hideous
songs, under the influence of liquor, as
some are doing. If my berth were near
the dining rooms I should certainly com-
plain of some of them.”
	The fifth day out, all having recovered
and appearing well, some of the most
energetic on board, began to look around


[Column 1]
for musical and other talent for the pur-
pose of getting up a concert on the night
of the 6th, which proved quite a success,
realizing quite a sum, which went to the
fund for assisting sailors’ widows aud
orphan chileren.
	On the morning of the ninth day very
early, before daylight, a great many were
bustling about; some were rearranging
their luggage, as they were to land at
Queenstown. All were early on deck to
look at the land scenery, which was
grand. Next day all were up again extra
early. This was the tenth day, and we
were near our destination. Ten o’clock
a. m. we landed at Liverpool, and then
we realized how far we were from
home. While at the depot we were met
by two Elders, Elders Thomas and Fair-
banks, who kindly helped us with our
luggage. These two brothers were filling
a mission in Liverpool. They guided us
to a hotel called Thomas’ hotel, man-
aged by a Mrs. Hiles, a very lady-like
woman with whom I conversed a number
of times on the principles that brought us
so far from home.
	Well, we are in Liverpool now, and
this is Sunday, so away we go to hunt up
No. 10, Holly Road, to meet with a little
band of Saints who are the salt of the
earth, differing from the masses all around
them; and very likely most much mis-
understood. After the afternoon meeting
an Elder took us to a lovely park close
by, where the green grass, the flowers and
the variety of ferns reminded me of the
place of my childhood, the little Guernsey
Island. At the next meeting we were in-
troduced to Sister Price and Brother and
Sister Hughes and others.
	Leaving Liverpool next morning we
took the train to Cardiff, Wales, and
then to Llantrissant, ten miles from Car-
diff, and stopping there one day and night
we received the inspiration that we were
close to the Miskin manor and Miskin vil-
lage; this we were anxious to see, as the
Miskin family are naturally proud of this
ancient place, which is very picturesque,
situated so that it commands a lovely
view of the surrounding country. Just as
we entered the gate we met a son of the
present owner and occupant, Judge Gwil-
ym Williams, this son of his honor the
judge, politely showed us through the
house and grounds and exhibited many
curiosities, rare shrubs and trees, some of
which had been transplanted from India,
also some of the heads and horns of ani-
mals he had killed while hunting in In-
dia; he then allowed us to walk around
the gardens, and pointed out a bathing
place where the Romans used to bathe.
	After  partaking of lunch with part of
the family, the lady, who was the mother
of this young man, and evidently a church
worker, interested us in her work and
told us how much had been realized by a
church fair. I wish I remembered the
amount, but it was hundreds of pounds
they had received from a church fair that
had been held on these grounds. The
funds were to be used for erecting a
church in the near future, to be built near
by on land donated by her or the family.
This lady’s son expressed the wish and
anticipation of going to the Rocky Moun-
tain region, and we hope, when he does,
he will meet with the same courtesy and
frendliness that he showed us, and I do
not doubt for a moment but that he will.
	After this delightful time we were

[Column 2]
driven to the station and had only a few
moments to wait for the train going to
Weymouth, where we again took boat
for my native island of Guernsey, which
I had left in 1840, for Newark, New Jer-
sey, where I lived two years before I was
married, and I might add here, that at
that time the restored and complete gos-
pel was unknown to either of us.
	Now on the little Guernsey island again
and this is the 15th of June. After taking
the train (not a buss as formerly) we ar-
rived at the seaport and parish of St.
Sampson’s. We found Mr. Stranger’s
sister, who took us through the house
owned by my dear father and the house
where I was born. Opposite is the Wes-
leyan Methodist chapel and Sunday
school building, also, where I had taught
after my father had left the church of
England. This lady conversed with us
for some time, then took us to some
friends, the Dorey’s, and others; then we
took a run down to see the dear old
church where I had been christened while
in infancy. This church was built in 1111,
the inside has been renovated, but the
outside is the same as built at that an-
cient date. The few that knew my dear
father were pleased to see us, and when
asked if they remembered him, exclaimed,
“I seem to see his dear, cheerful face
now while I am speaking,” proving to us
that he was not forgotten. His remains
now lie in the cemetery of St. John, Kan-
sas, the place where we embraced the
Gospel. When my father visited my only
sister in New Jersey, she reluctantly al-
lowed him to come and see us, then old
and feeble, but as it was his great desire
to see me and spend  his last days with
us, she parted with him, but it was only
for a short time he stayed with us, as a
few weeks afterwards he had a paralytic
stroke, from which he never recovered,
liying but a short time, closing his eyes,
he again took another journey to the
great beyond, in the year 1888. He had
filled his mission, having been as a father
and mother most of the time to his moth-
erless children. Well, I must not dwell
too long on these sacred spots, so we will
wish good-bye to little Guernsey.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. LOS ANGELES, CAL.
	Yesterday was a “Red Letter Day” for
us in the Los Angeles branch, for in reor-
ganizing the Relief Society an opportuni-
ty was afforded us of showing our appre-
ciation for the labors and regard for the
sterling qualities and character of Sister
Eliza Woollacott who has been our Presi-
dent for nine and one-half years, ever
since the Relief Society was organized
here. She is in her seventy-sixth year
and of late has not been feeling adequate
to the task of presiding and attending to
the various duties of the Relief Society,
and so requested the Branch and Mission
Presidency to release her and let some-
one of younger years assume the
duties of the office she has so long and
faithfully filled. The presiding brethren
were loth to part with her services, but
met with the society yesterday when Mrs.
Woollacott was honorably released with
her Counselors, Sisters Harriet Rand and
Freda Hedberg, and the following named
sisters sustained as the Presidency of the
Los Angeles Relief Society, i. e., Margaret


Jacobson, Freda Hedberg and Isabelle
Anderson, with Lura Lorbeer secretary
and treasurer, and Jennie Riggs assistant
secretary and treasurer.
	Appropriate and feeling remarks were
made by Prest. Joseph E. Robinson and
Prest. H. C. Jacobson, each of whom
bore testimony to the integrity, generosi-
ty and faithfulness of Sister Woollacott
and how they had regarded her as the
“Mother of the Los Angeles Branch” for
her importunities with the Presidency of
the Church were largely responsible for
bringing the Elders to this city, and
her home was where the first L. D. S.
meetings were held and afterwards the
“Woollacott Hall” was tendered to the
Saints, free of charge, by one of her sons,
where we met for several years. Several
of the sisters followed in a similar vein
expressing their love for the sisters re-
leased and for the incoming officers as
well. Sister Woollacott gave us her tes-
timony and blessing as also did Sister
Jacobson, her most worthy successor.
	In the evening we met at the residence
of Prest. Jacobson where a banquet was
tendered Sister Woollacott and her Coun-
selors by the Relief Society, and some
forty sat down to the sumptuous repast
prepared by clever and loving hands. The
decorations were red and green, carna-
tions and smilax. Songs, sentiments and
recitations made a pleasant program, and
after the dinner was served, Prest. Joseph
E. Robinson, in behalf of the society,
presented Sister Woollacott with a beauti-
ful silver basin fittingly engraved and of
much beauty. Our dear sister was so
overcome with the eulogy paid her and
the beautiful present that she could not
express her feelings for grateful tears.
We will remember it long and treasure it
in our hearts as one of the occasions
when our Heavenly Father poured out
His Spirit in such abundance and sweet-
ness that our faith is renewed and our
courage built up, and we are determined
to keep pace with our more favored sis-
ters in the Wards and Stakes of Zion and
be prepared with them for the coming of
the Bridegroom.
	Nov. 22, 1906.		M. A. R.


NOTES.
	Mrs. Margaret Bottome, President of
the International order of King’s Daugh-
ters, died last week at her home in New
York City, in her 79th year. The first
circle of King’s Daughters was organized
at her house in 1886. The society now
numbers its members by hundreds of
thousands, and carries on a great variety
of benevolent work, Mrs. Bottome’s
maiden name was McDonald. She was
educated at Professor Greenleaf’s school
in Brooklyn, N. Y., where her early life
was passed and where she married the
Rev. Dr. Frank Bottome of the Meth-
odist Church. She was at one time asso-
ciate editor of the Ladies’ Home Journal.
Besides copious contributions to the relig-
ious press, she was the author of “A Sun-
shine Trip to the Orient,” “Death and
Life,” “Seven Questions after Easter”
and “Crumbs from the King’s Table.”
She was in demand as a lecturer, and for
25 years had conducted Bible talks. She
was also connected with the women’s
branch of the International Medical Mis-
sion. She leaves three sons, two of them
ministers and one a lawyer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LET SOMETHING GOOD BE SAID.
When over the fair fame of friend, or of foe
	The shadow of disgrace shall fall, instead
Of words of blame, or proof of thus and so,
	Let something good be said.
Forget not that no fellow being yet
	May fall so low, but love may lift his head;
Even the cheek of shame with tears is wet,
	If something good be said.
No generous heart may vainly turn aside
	In ways of sympathy; no soul so dead
But may awaken strong and glorified,
	If something good be said.
And so I charge you, by the thorny crown
	And by the cross on which the Savior bled,
And by your own soul’s hope of fair renown,
	Let something good be said.
				JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.


AUTUMN.
The day is dark, and dank and cold.
The eves are gathering the moss and mold.
The vines and leaves have changed to gold,
The dying year is nearly one year old.

And yet there’s cheer within my heart,
Though friends may come and friends depart,
The future brings sweet thoughts apart
Of what life holds within my heart.

Good bye, old year, no, stay, I hear
The echo of a voice so sweet, so dear,
You brought me only love and cheer,
I am loth to lot you go, kind year.

I kiss thy face, so sweet, so fair,
Most beautiful face, though ag’d with care,
And my heart goes out with thee in prayer.
May we meet again, some place, somewhere.
					LOUISE COULSON,
Salt Lake City, Utah.


AUTUMN.
The day is dark, and dank and cold.
The eves are gathering the moss and mold.
The vines and leaves have changed to gold,
The dying year is nearly one year old.

And yet there’s cheer within my heart,
Though friends may come and friends depart, 
The future brings sweet thoughts apart
Of what life holds within my heart.

Good bye, old year, no, stay, I hear
The echo of a voice so sweet, so dear,
You brought me only love and cheer,
1 am loth to lot you go, kind year.

I kiss thy face, so sweet, so fair.
Most beautiful face, though ag’d with care,
And my heart goes out with thee in prayer.
May we meet again, some place, somewhere.
					LOUISE COUSON,
Salt Lake City, Utah.


[Column 1]
		MYSTIFICATIONS.
	A thoroughly typical Scottish gentle-
woman of literary tastes was Miss Stirling
Grahame. This collateral descendant of
Claverhouse was still a young woman
when she delighted and puzzled society
in Scotland with her wonderful imperson-
ations of an old lady. Later in life she
wrote her recollections of these exploits
and made them public property, under
the name of “Mystifications.” “This en-
tertaining, curious and wonderful little
quarto” then actually recorded scenes
that took place when Sir Walter domin-
ated Scotland, England and France, and
Edinburgh was full of cultured, large-
minded, flesh-and-blood society. Lord
Jeffrey, Lord Cockburn, Lord Gillies, were
three jewels, fit to make any circle
shine far and wide. Of the women, Mrs.
Poyser might have truly said “They were
made to match the men,” and yet to bor-
row from Dr. John Brown, “as distinct in
character each from the other, as were
the men—or as is a beech from a birch, a

[Column 2]
lily from a rose.” Before such on-lookers
as these Miss Stirling-Grahame “mysti-
fied” one celebrity after another, by her
personations of Lady Pitlyal, Mrs. Mac-
Allister, Lady Catharine Howard, Mrs.
Ramsay Speldin, Mrs. Arbuthnot of Bal-
wylie. Miss Stirling-Grahame’s plan of
action was to arrive in the middle of an
evening gathering in the dress of an old
lady of a previous time. She would sus-
tain for some hours the character she per-
sonated, and make the most absurd and
eccentric statements about herself and
her family. Later in life when her own
presence was not so remarkable, the
effect of a mystification was electrical.
She actually became the old lady, and
“jest, quick retort, whimsical fancy, the
wildest nonsense, flowed from her lips
with a freedom and truth to nature which
appeared to be impossible in her own per-
sonality.” Be it remembered also that
those who were deceived by these mysti-
fications were no stranger to such devices.
Seventy years ago it was one of the favor-
ite amusements of young girls to dress
up and maintain the character of an older
woman throughout an evening. Miss Stirl-
ing Grahame’s “Mystifications” is the only
considerable record we have of such
pranks. With the “Mystifications” are
published some studies of “worthies,”
one a dog, which are full of spiritual de-
lineation. The most beautiful is “Miss
Menie Trotter,” a prose poem, which the
most superficial and callous could not
scorn.
	The charm of Miss Stirling-Grahame’s
style lies in its naturalness, its veracity,
and its lack of small-mindedness. Its wit
and humor are principally found in the
record of her own sayings. The favorite
example of her wit is her epigram on
cold, wet soil, in which she says, “It
greets a-winter and girns a summer.”
Truly Scottish humor is to be found in the
episode which she professes to recall of
one laird’s refusing to give his youngest
daughter to a suitor, telling him to “tak’
them as God had gi’en them to him, or
want.” With the exception of a trans-
lation of a French treatise on bees,
“Mystifications” was Miss Stirling-
Grahame’s sole contribution to literature.
Though her influence on literature has
been as nothing, the memory of her per-
sonality lives even yet with those who
knew her breezy, benevolent, straightfor-
ward character. Duntrune, her much
loved home, was so situated as to com-
mand both Highlands and Lowlands, and
she herself joined the poetry and wit of the
Highlander to the shrewdness and humor
of the Lowlander. Having outlived most
of the brilliant friends of her youth and
mindle-age, she died in 1877, in the
ninety-eighth year of her age.
	Of a very different type of Scotswoman
was Mrs. Oliphant. The thought of
bandying jests with Sir Walter and Lord
Jeffrey would have made Mrs. Oliphant
shake with fear, and the meetings with
Southey, Sir David Brewster and John
Wilson. which delighted Mrs. Grant,
would have had no charm for Mrs. Oli-
phant, who detested intellectualism.
Early widowed, she had to use the pen,
which had once been a pleasing play-
thing, as a tool to provide sordid bread
and butter for herself and her two boys.
Stern necessity transformed the author of
pretty promising stories into the profes-
sional book-maker, turning out her annual

[Column 3]
quota of so many thousand words. She
had perforce to produce quantity, quality
must be an accident. After long years of
increasing literary activity, Mrs. Oliphant
had still to feel the sting of the critics
whose honesty could not allow them to
praise aught save her industry. She her-
self knew well that lack of fallow times
had prevented the harvest from being
as rich as it should have been, but house-
hold expenses, school and college bills,
would not wait whilst the bread-winner
took time to produce an “Adam Bede,”
or an “Aurora Leigh.”
	Mrs. Oliphant’s fatal gift of versatility,
joined to the ever-present need to keep
things going, have been the causes which
have deprived her of a lasting reputation.
Her pen was so facile that she is said to
have offered to write a whole number of
Blackwood’s Magazine herself. To write
was as easy as to smile, and the pen
which was at ease with the glories of the
Paradiso and the intricacies of Irvingism,
could also discourse of Alphonse Daudet
and Boating on the Thames. When
Mrs. Oliphant wrote “Katie Stewart,”
specialising even in literature was not a
moral obligation; when she finished her
“Annals of a Publishing House,” the era
had arrived when he or she who special-
ises not is lost.
	Had the bread-and-butter problem not
existed, it is possible Mrs. Oliphant might
have had a high place among novel writ-
ers of the second class. With her imagi-
native works we are not concerned here,
but much of Mrs. Oliphant’s best writing
is to be found in works which are not fic-
tion. The informal series of books of
which “The Makers of Florence” and
“Royal Edniburgh” are good examples,
have much graceful literary writing in
them. They are not deep, their readers
must supplement their information by a
study of more accurate authorities, but
such parts as the opening chapters of the
“Makers of Modern Rome” are gems that
one would not give for a wilderness of
dry-as-dust facts. Mrs, Oliphant’s own
particular gift of sympathy had the happy
result of making her a successful biogra-
pher, and she had the satisfaction of mak-
ing popular the lives of such widely dif-
ferent men as Edward Irving, Laurence
Oliphant and Principal Tulloch.
	Mrs. Oliphant’s worth to the generation
which comes after her lies probably, not
in her charm as a novelist, not in her fac-
ility as a biographer, not in her weight as
an historian, not in her beauty of vision
as an expounder of the ways of the Un-
seen. but in her example to women who,
like herself, may be left with a moderate
talent as the only means of carrying on
the battle of life. The story of her own
life has more interest in it than any novel
Mrs. Oliphant wrote. The early life in
London with the shadow of coming
trouble; the removal to Italy and the
death there of the suffering husband; the
pathetic loss of every “woman child;” the
return to Edinburgh. and the kindly help
of the Blackwood family; the permanent
settlement at Windsor, and the Herculean
efforts to keep the ill-fated sons at Eton
and Oxford; the adoption of her nieces
and the care of her helpless brother; the
haven of happy holidays in her native
land and across the channel; all make up
a history with more of sorrow happiness
and trial than might be found in the log
of one who had roamed half the world.
		—English Woman’s Review.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		NOVEMBER, 1906


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
	There never has been a time when
there was greater cause for rejoicing
among this people than now. The bounti-
ful harvests of fields and orchards should
fill every soul with gratitude and praise
to Him who rules on high, who watches
over all, and pours out blessings in such
rich abundance. Not only is this goodly
land filled with earthly comforts and lux-
uries, but there are blessings of a spirit-
ual nature such as were never before en-
joyed by any people of which we have
knowledge in ancient or modern history.
The blessings of temples wherein those
who are prepared may go and minister
for their ancestry.
	Four of these sacred edifices have
been erected to the name of the Most
High, since a few poor pilgrims came
with scant provisions and belongings, to
settle these valleys: to find peace and se-
curity from their oppressors. This little
handful of people have made a record in
this region such as history has not record-
ed hitherto. The Latter-day Saints
count the blessings they have received in
temples above all earthly riches, and yet
perhaps they are not as mindful of them
as they should be.
	Our Father in heaven is merciful and
long-suffering with His people, but it is
the duty, and should be esteemed a priv-
lege and pleasure, to acknowledge His
goodness and favors in the most humble
manner every day and hour in the heart,
and in prayer and intercession to Him
who holds the “keys of the universe,”
that these great blessings may not be
taken from us, but that this people, who
have found favor with the Lord, may
live in such a way that He will continue to
acknowledge and bless them, and multi-
ply them, that they may accomplish the
work He has set His hand to perform in
these last days.
	Meantime happiness, as far as possible,
should pervade the hearts and peace
abide in the homes of the Saints, that the
Holy Spirit may be the guide at all times
of those who are partakers of such mani-
fold blessings.
	It is right and proper to set apart days
for special thanksgiving and to observe
them as such. It is good for men and
women to cease toiling for a day, even if
it is only a change. Activity is good in
any legitimate direction, and pleasant
diversion for the mind and body in mod-
eration is beneficial; and rational enjoy-

[Column 2]
ment for elderly people, as well as chil-
dren and young folks, brightens life and
exhilarates the mind; social intercourse
such as is usually promoted on these oc-
casions, when one sits down to a Thanks-
giving dinner, and the conversation is en-
livening, often produces a pleasurable,
lasting effect, as well as that of the time
being. One remembers people met at
table long afterwards, and incidents that
transpired. Such dinners are recalled oft-
times, not because of the feast of
good things, nearly as much as the good-
fellowship. or story-telling, or song-sing-
ing and music indulged in as informal
after-dinner pastimes.
	Thanksgiving in New England in the
nineteenth century was the one day
looked forward to, when all the family,
with cousins, aunts, and other relatives
and invited friends gathered; and the
most sumptuous dinner possible was
bountifully served. In those days none
of the old-fashioned families observed
Christmas, and the exchange of gifts was
for New Year’s Day—the only regular gift
day; now peeple are so profuse with gifts
that it is the other extreme.
	Thanksgiving this year finds this people
in the enjoyment of so many choice gifts
and blessings that we can scarcely count
them; but should with due reverence try
to appreciate the prosperity that has
come, and so live as to beworthy, if
possible, of a continuation of years of
prosperity in which to build up Zion, and
to use the means with which the Lord
blesses His people, that Zion may indeed
be glorious and accepted of the Lord;
and that this chosen gathering place may
be preserved when death and destruction
encompass the land.


[Column 1]
UNVEILING OF BRONZE TABLET.
	The Congregational Club of Boston,
Mass. have presented to the oldest Re-
formed Church in Holland a bronze tablet
inscribed as a memorial in recording his-
tory in artistic symbol.
	First is set forth the “seal of the Re-
formed Church of Delfshaven with the
correct topography as it was in the 16th
century with waterway, quays and haven.”
Within the encircling motto we read first
in Hebrew letters mystic consonant, and
unseen words the pre-ancient covenant
name,
			JEHOVAH.
	Then in Dutch speech the motto and
confession of faith, rendered into English.
		“The Haven of salvation Above
			with God in Zion.”
	Below this they explain “the true words
accepted by us all, and binding us every
one in unity of loyalty to a common Sa-
vior, revealer of Jehovah and of our
Father,”
		“ONE IN CHRIST.”
	Next confronting each other across
friendly space are the arms of the State
of Massachusetts, with the figure of the
Algonquin Indian, oldest inhabitant of the
Western world, and the town arms of
Delfshaven, once the port of Delft, and a
common community by itself, but now
part of Rotterdam, seventh shipping port
of the world; with its green and gold her-
rings, and wheat, emblems of agriculture
and of the fisheries. These tell the eye
how the men by the Maas won their food
from the sea as well as from the land.

[Column 2]
	Then follows the text from the Ameri-
can Book of Genesis Bradford’s testimony
to Dutch hospitality. His words bind our
hearts and our consciences to this day.
	Then the inscription giving the name
of the donors also paying honor to the
Pilgrim Fathers. “It records a fact of
history which meant one of the decisive
events of the world.”
	The Tulip Holland’s typical flower en-
graved belowin one corner and in anti-
phonal association making harmony the
Trailing Arbutus the May Flower, “which
in their new home greeted the Pilgrims
with life, beauty and perfume, after the
frosts of winter. Its glossy leaves, waxen
petals and sweet odor cheered their spirits
and touched their imaginations, while it
seemed to waft welcome.” Then follows
—“The inscription July 22, A. D. 1620.”

	The Pilgrim Fathers Began Their
		Voyage To New England.
	Obliged by their good and courteous
		entreaty 
	Which we have found in your
		country
	We and our children are bound to
		be thankful.

Governor William Bradford to the Dutch
	in Manhattan March 19, 1827.
In Token of enduring gratitude and in
Christian Brotherhood, the Boston Con-
gregational Club rear this memorial.
		JULY 1906.
This finishes the engraving of the Tablet.
	“The Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers”
was the first hymn in the exercises and
the “Star Spangled Banner” the last. The
prayer was a very appropriate and sug-
gestive one and closes with the Lord’s
prayer—Amen” and then the words
	“Let all the people say Amen”
	Praise ye the Lord
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from
everlasting to everlasting. Psalms cvi. 18.”
	This address with the picture of the
Tablet, the Delfshaven Reformed Church,
as it is to day, also the picture of those
who left Holland at that time, and their
names each one numbered, thirty four in
all, the picture of the first meeting for
public worship in North America Sunday,
January 21, 1621, all these are included
in the pamphlet issued in English and
Dutch which we have recently received
from Sister Emily Wells Grant.
	The address which is partly historical
was delivered by William Elliot Griffis
D. D. L. H. D. September 28, 1906 at the
unveiling of the tablet.
	The Pilgrim fathers and mothers who
sailed from Holland for England on that
ever memorable day. were joined by those
from London and Southampton numbering
altogether one hundred and one persons
who sailed on the single ship Mayflower
on the Atlantic leaving England in July
1620, and arriving at Plymouth Rock De-
cember 20, 1620.
	We are very grateful to Sister Grant
for sending this interesting pamphlet, and
glad to know that Boston men recognize
Holland’s magnanimity in receiving these
Pilgrim fathers and mothers, who were
the means with others equally brave and
heroic under Divine Providence in open-
ing the way to this goodly land of America,
where millions of people from many lands
have been partakers of religious freedom
and liberty accorded to all under the Con-
stitution of these United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			37


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				III.
	There was at Favorsham, Kent, Eng-
land a branch of the Relief Society or-
ganized at an early date, we have not the
positive date unfortunately, or we would
give it here but we have a notice of its
holding a semi Annual Conference on
March 21, 1881—in which it is stated much
of the time was occupied with reports, a
synopsis of which was sent to the London
Conference. The President’s name is
given, Sister Ann Cornford. This Relief
Society Conference was held in the after-
noon and at the close of the meeting a
social tea provided by the President and
her Counselors was enjoyed, and in the
evening the Relief Society held a joint
session with the priesthood of the Favors-
ham branch. This Society numbered
twenty members and they visited among
the Saints. This report is from a letter of
Elder Edward King’s who was at that
time laboring there, as was also Elder
Joseph A. Jennings.
	Auckland, New Zealand, Relief Society
was organized by Elder George Batt, De-
cember 22, 1880, Sister Isabel Lucy ap-
pointed President; Sisters Day and Fox,
Counselors; Sister Williams, Secretary;
Sister Miles, Treasurer. June 9, 1881, the
President and her Counselors left New
Zealand for Zion and Sister Hannah Cox
was elected President by unanimous vote
of the members. This Society was in a
flourishing condition in 1881, at the date
of the letter received, and much means
had been donated and earned by sewing.
Meetings were held semi-monthly.
	The first Relief Society in the Swiss and
German Mission was in Berne Switzer-
land by Elder P. F. Goss, June 30, 1882.
At the time of the visit of Sister Annie
Wells Cannon in 1883, she wrote concern-
ing this Society of Berne, and others, she
says: Notwithstanding that it has lost
many members through the emigration it
still has a membership of 39. Regular
meetings are held every fort-night, in one
meeting the sisters speak and bear testi-
mony, and in the other report the districts
to which they have been assigned. In
addition to these meetings, work meetings
are held occasionally. The last report
dated January 15, 1884, stated that the
cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
that they had an outlay during the preced-
ing six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers
were Rosina Steiner, President; Magda-
lene Meyer and Maria Schneider, Counse-
lors; Sophia Kindlisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was
organized by Elder Alvis Boner, the 5th
of February, 1883, though a very small
Society it has been a very industrious and
active one. In the one year it has held
36 meetings, most of them work meetings.
Sister Barga Haage the energetic Presi-
dent has been untiring in her endeavors,
and much good has been done by this
little Society though only numbering
seven members. They started with a
working capital of Frs. 4.63, which they
have increased nine fold. They have as-
sisted some of their emigrating sisters
and purchased many useful Xmas gifts for
the needy children of the branch of the
Church in that place.
	The Relief Society of Scherll was or-
ganized September 24, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. There are now eleven members.
Elizabeth Michel, President; Eliza Kohler

[Column 2]
and Kathrine Michel, Counselors; and
Anna Eliza Michel, Secretary. The mem-
bers express themselves much improved
strengthened and encouraged by these
meetings and better able to help each
other in different ways.
	The Relief Society of Linach was or-
ganized on February 3, 1884, by Elder
Avis Bauer. There are ten members;
Barbara Naef, President; Maria Fretz
and Babette Fischer, Counselors; and
Rosina Baahardt, Secretary. The annual
Conference of the Swiss and German Mis-
sion was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December 1883. The last even-
ing of the Conference, Dec. 24th, the
Relief Society held a meeting. Eleven
Elders and one sister from Utah were
present (Sister Annie Wells Cannon) and
a large attendance of Saints besides many
strangers. Sister Rosina Steiner presided
with ease and coolness. Good and inter-
esting testimonies were borne, and en-
couragement offered to the sisters in the
work in their different languages, English,
French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects, that might be called
many more languages.
	They were delighted with the things
told them by Sister Cannon about the
work of the Relief Society in Zion and
especially pleased when told a Hospital
had been founded under the auspices of
the Society here in Utah.
	Sister Cannon wrote, those engaged in
the Society work have discovered the
great benefit of the organization in times
of sickness and need, that they are of
much help to each other and to the breth-
ren and that the Society is a great sup-
port to the branch of the Church to which
it belongs.
	While Sister Cannon was in Europe on
the Continent, she prepared a sort of
Epistle, “To the Relief Society of the
Swiss and German Mission” which was
published in the “Stern.” This Epistle
set forth the work of women in the
Church, the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, and in
fact gave a sketch of the Society up to
that time mentioning the General Officers
and certain departments of the work,
storing grain, the Woman’s Exponent,
sericulture, the Deseret Hospital the en-
couraging of young women in the study
of medicine as a profession, and many
other things incidentally. The epistle
was highly approved by Sister Eliza R.
Snow then General President of the So-
ciety, who commended it and wished it
published, in the Woman’s Exponent
here in Utah, which was accordingly done
by her request.
	It is only just to add that at the time
Sister Cannon visited these organizations
abroad, she was only a very young woman
twenty three years of age.


AGNES CROSS DOUGLAS.
	A word in remembrance of Sister Doug-
las from one of the many sisters who
knew her intimately and had often par-
taken of her boundless hospitality in her
own home. 
    Sister Douglas, who has so recently left
us to enter upon another sphere of action
was in the early days of the sisters travel-
ing and organizing in wards, etc., very
active and helpful. She was closely asso-
ciated with Sister Eliza R. Snow, and


Sister Margaret T. Smoot, (Ma Smoot)
and was a very dear friend and sort of 
comrade of Sister Elizabeth Howard.
She was a woman of dignified appear-
ance and had a good influence with her
associates and coworkers; she was well-
versed in the scriptures, full of faith and
integrity to the Gospel, and of a decided-
ly spiritual temperament. When near-
ing the close of her earthly life she be-
held a glorious vision, that seemed to 
her who was then so near the boundary
where only the “veil” separates us from
the other shore, intensely real. There
is no doubt in the minds of those who
were by her bedside at the time that
her mother appeared and called her, for 
she answered her audibly, the vision of
a dear, departed daughter was also visi-
ble to her, and the atmosphere of the 
vision in the room testified to the family
surrounding her bed that her escort was
there ready to accompany her to the
“land of pure delight.”
	As one by one these veteran sisters pass
away it recalls the fact that but few re-
main, who wrought with Sister Eliza and
Aunt Zina in the commencement of
woman’s organisations; very recently Sis-
ter Rebecca Atwood Wareham of Manti,
has joined the innumerable oompany of
those who have been among the early
workers, there are but few left now
of those who helped establish woman’s
work in the Church, here and there one
afar off in some stake of Zion, and here
we have our beloved General President of
the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith
and in Ogden we have Sister Jane S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society
of Weber Stake. We should not forget
to do honor to those who have served so
long and fathfully while they are still 
with us and laboring diligently, actively
planning for the betterment of the Soci-
ety at large, that has now become so
great and numerous.


FEDERAL SUFFRAGE BILL H. R. 5360.

	A bill to protect the rights of women
citizens of the United States to register
and vote for members of the House of
Representatives:
	Whereas, the right to choose members
of the House of Representatives is vested
by the Constitution in the people of the
states without distinction of sex, but for
want of proper legislation has hitherto
been restricted to one-half of the people.
For the purpose, therefore, of correcting
this error and of giving effect to the Con-
stitution,
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, that
women who are citizens of the United
States, who possess such qualifications of
age, residence, property or education as
may be required of men to make them ler
gal voters in the several states shall be
eligible to register and vote in all states
of the Union at all elections for members
of the House of Representatives.

WANTED—20,000 NAMES.

	We want the signatures of 20,000 adult
citizens which we can use in support of
the Federal Suffrage Bill giving women
the right to vote for members of the
House of Representatives. Every reader
can get some names. The form given
below enables the names to be used for


any woman suffrage measure in Congress,
and it is a continuous petition, that can
be used as long as needed.
	Use this form. Cut this out or copy
on sheet of paper, lined down the middle,
with names on one side and addresses,
with street and’number, on the other.
	PETITIONERS FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	We, the undersigned adult citizens of
the United States, hereby authorize Ihe
Federal Women’s Equality Association
to affix our signatures to any memorial or
petition that may be presented to Con-
gress on behalf of woman suffrage.
	Persons who wish to aid this work may
become members of the Federal Wo-
man’s Equality Association by paying $1.
A ticket will be sent with the autographs
of Isabella Beecher Hooker, the honorary
president; of Belva A. Lockwood, the
president,and of Rev. Olympia Brown,the
vice-president. Of all the splendid galaxy
of pioneer workers these alone remain
who'were active in early days and have
kept up active and official relation to the
work ever since. Their autographs will
be a priceless possession in any family.
Life memberships are $25.00, and contri-
butions of any size will be welcomed and
duly acknowledged.— Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Agnes Cross Douglass, the subject of this sketch,
was born on April 6, 1818, in the parish of Carro-
way, County Antrim, Ireland.
	She was the daughter of John Cross and Margar-
et McCune Cross. She resided with her parents un-
til she was sixteen years of age when her mother
died leaving to her entire charge the care of seven
children, the youngest at that time being only
eleven months old.
	Her father, becoming dissatisfied, left Ireland
and went to Scotland, the family soon following
after, and they made their home at Campsie, near
Glasgow. It was here that she heard and embraced
the Gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints.
She was baptised by Elder David Wilkie on March
30, 1842, and was married Oct. 14 in the same year
to William Douglass. Soon after they moved to
Belfast, Ireland, where they made their home un-
til the year 1844. They emigrated to America,
crossing the sea in the good ship Norfolk, from 
Liverpool by way of New Orleans, coming up the
Mississippi river by steamboat to St. Louis, where 
they arrived in December, 1844.
	The following spring they left St. Louis and
went to Nauvoo, and there built a house and
passed through the stirring scenes of that trying
time, their house being riddled by bullets from the
guns of the mob.
	By the counsel of Elder Orson Hyde, on the 6th
of April, 1846, the family returned to St. Louis
and remained in that city until March 10, 1848.
	On that date they left St. Louis by ox team
bound for the west and traveled from there to 
Winter Quarters near to where the city of Omaha
now stands.
	On May 17, 1848, the family started from Win-
ter Quarters for Salt Lake Valley in Brigham
Young's company, Lorenzo Snow being captain
of the one hundred wagons and Thomas McClel-
land being captain of the ten in which Brother
and Sister Douglass traveled.
	The journey across the plains was a tedious one
as they  had to make roads and build bridges along 
the route.
	The company arrived in Salt Lake Valley Sept.
23, 1848. In 1849 the family built a house in the
First Ward, in Salt Lake City, Sister Douglass as-
sisting in its erection. The house in question still
stands, a monument of the untiring energies of
its builders.
	In the spring of 1858 the family in company
with others left Salt Lake City and located in Pay-
son, and the family from that date have been
closely identified with the business enterprises of 
Payson.
	Sister Douglass has always been an energetic
church worker, and while a resident in the First
Ward, Salt Lake City, she was chosen first coun-
selor to Sister Lydia Knight. president of the (Fe-
male) Relief Society of that ward.
	Her record in Payson has been on the same ac-

[Column 2]
tive lines, and on the organization of the Payson
Relief Society she was chosen first counselor to
Sister Jane Simons, its president; associated with
her were Sister Mary Moore, Clarissa Moore and
Mary Ann Hardy, all of whom performed active
work in ministering to the sick, bringing aid to
the needy. and performing the last sad rites to the
silent dead.
	Sister Douglass was a wise counselor, her ex-
perience qualifying her for that position, under-
standing human nature in all its forms. Her judg-
ment was formed on safe lines, and never doubt-
ing the divinity of the work she had embraced in 
her early you[-]h she was true and faithful to the 
end of her mortal life.
	Surrounded by loving children, and here let it
be added, by the spirit of one of her departed
children, who was waiting to pilot her to her
heavenly home, she succumbed to the pains of
mortality, departing this life Sept. 5, 1906, aged
88 years and 5 months.
	She was the mother of eight children, four of
whom, including her husband, preceded her to the
spirit world. The four remaining children 
are married and reside in Payson, as follows: Samuel
Douglass, Joseph S. Douglass, Mrs Hyrum Lem-
mon, Mrs. M. D. Dixon. Thirty-five grandchil-
dren and thirty-five great-grandchildren are left
to mourn the departure of the deceased.
	Sister Douglas could truly say as was said by
one of old.
	“I have fought the good fight. I have finished
my course, I have kept the faith; henceforth there
is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which
the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
that day, and not to me only, but unto all them
also that love His appearing.”
	The funeral services were held Friday after-
noon, Sept. 7th, in the Second Ward meeting-
house, and the body interred in the beautiful family
burial spot in the Payson City cemetary.—Com.


OBITUARY.
	To the memory of our beloved sister. Olive
W[-]olley Kimball, who departed this life October
18, 1906, at the L. D. S. Hospital, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
	The sad news was received at Thatcher, Arizona,
(her home) October 19, and cast a gloom over the
entire community. President Andrew Kimball
arrived home with his wife’s remains on Wednes-
day, October 24, and the funeral services were
held the following Sunday.
				RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has called from our midst our beloved sis-
ter; and
	Whereas our intimate association with her in the
performance of her duties as first counselor in the
St. Joseph Stske Relief Society, thus it is emin-
ently befitting that we record our appreciation of
her labors, as she had through her kind and gen-
tle disposition endeared herself to all the sisters of
this stake.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake,
that we mourn the loss of our dear sister, that we
appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set for us to follow, but we are
comforted with the thought, that if worthy we will
meet and enjoy her society again.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved family
our sincere sympathy and pray God that His com-
forting influence may be with them in their great
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family of the deceased, and be
placed on our records, and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Why do we mourn that she has left us?
		We should only say well done!
	She was true to her probation,
		And a place in heaven has won.
	’Tis true her parting bas bereft us,
		But her virtues we recall—
	She was candid, firm and valiant,
		And a loving friend to all.
	She has gathered with her kindred,
		But her work will never cease.
	She will love the truth in heaven,
		And impart her works of peace.
	While she mingles with the angels.
		Yet her choicest blessings fall.
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones.
		Yes, she blesses one and all.
					ELIZABETH W. LAYTON,
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE W. KIMBALL,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Ellen Bullock Adamson died at her home
in Pleasant Grove, Nov. 4th. 1906. She was the
daughter of Alexander and Emily C. Bullock;
born in Salt Lake City. October 8th, 1862; leaves
a husband and nine children, the youngest three
weeks old.
	Impressive services were held in Clark’s Hall
on the 7th inst., where a large congregation of sor-
rowing relatives and friends assembled. The
floral tributes were beautiful and appropriate. In-
structive and consoling remarks were made by the
speakers, Brother J. C. Thorne, J. D Wadley.
Sisters Sine Chipman, and Annie C. Hindley, of
the Relief Society Stake Presidency, brother
J. L. Brown, of Provo, President James Clarke,
and Bishop S. L. Swenson.
	The following resolutions of respect were
adopted by the Pleasant Grove Relief Society, of
which she was the assistant secretary for many
years, and for three years the secretary.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our beloved sister, Ellen B. Adam-
son,
	Resolved, that we deeply mourn the absence of
an active and faithful member of the society one
who was ever ready and willing to do her part
with especial promptness and regularity. She
was a devoted wife and mother, and a fervent
Latter-day Saint, loved and respected by all her
associates.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to the parents, the bereaved husband and mother-
less children and ask God to bless them and cause
them to feel that he is their friend and that their
sorrow is not greater than they can bear.
	Resolved that these resotutions be entered in our
minutes, a copy presented to the bereaved family
and one forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication. 
				LOUISA HALLIDAY, President.
				ROSE B. HAYES, Sec. pro. tem.


ISABEL SMITH KNIGHT.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Alwise and Eternal Father in His
infinite wisdom has called our beloved Sister, Isa-
bel Smith Knight, from our midst; and
	Whereas, Sister Knight has been closely con-
nected with the Relief Society of the Taylor Stake
since its organization, as counselor in the Ray-
mord ward, and for the past three years as assist-
ant stake secretary.
	We, the stake officers, representing all the
branches of the Relief Society of the Tay-
lor Stake, desire to express our appreci-
ation of her integrity and worth as a faithful
daughter of Israel, and wish to extend our sincere
sympathy to the members of her family in their
sad bereavement.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our sym-
pathy to her mother, her husband and children;
be it further—
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
the records of the Relief Society of this stake, and
that a copy be presented to the bereaved families,
and also to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	Hannah M. Russell, President; Elizabeth S.
Hardy, Kate L. Paxman, Counselors Gertrnde
W. Cannon, Secretary.


OBITUARY.
	At Hinckley, Millard County, August 11th, 1906
there passed from earth one of our Father’s choice
spirits, Clarinda J. Stout, wife of Hosea F. Stout.
She has been a great sufferer for some time, from
what finally proved to be cancer of the stomach.
	Sister Clarinda was first counselor in our Relief
Society for five years, and has faithfully done her
duty in this office, responding cheerfully to every
call
	We, her co-workers, miss her cheerful voice and
smile, yet we feel it is well with her and
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father in
His great wisdom to call unto Himself our dear
sister. 
	Be it therefore resolved, that while we, as of-
ficers and members of this Relief Society deplore
her loss, we yet bow in humble submission to the
will of our Father and we recognize in her de-
parture the loss of a faithful and energetic worker
in our society, a devoted wife and mother, and a
true Latter-day Saint. We also recognize in her


faithful labors an example worthy of emulation by
all.
	Resolved, that we, her sisters, sincerely sympa-
thize with her bereaved husband, Hosea F. Stout,
and her family.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed on
our records, and that they be published in the
Woman’s Exponent also that a copy be sent to
the family of our dear sister and friend.
	True and tender, self-denying,
		One of truth’s disciples brave—
	Let her sleep, she needs to slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave,
	Shall we mourn for one who’s left us?
		Yes, our tears we needs must blend
	Love’s our offering, this we owe thee,
		Faithful mother—faithful friend.
	President Naomi R. Theobald; Catherine A.
A1lred, Pheobe Meacham, Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			SNOWFLAKE.
	Our Relief Society Conference is just
over, and we trust the work has received
an impetus which will help it to roll
along more smoothly than ever before.
	Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
J. Cannon, of the General Board were
the chief attractions of the day and spoke
refreshingly on Relief Society work, giv-
ing timely and good advice to mothers
and explaining in detail the duties of
officers and members. The subject of
storing up grain was touched upon and
our greatest mission, the saving of souls,
was made a specialty.
	Reports of a part of the ward organiza-
tions were given by their respective presi-
dents and representatives. All spoke en-
couragingly of the attendance and the
good spirit among the sisters.
	In connection with various other speak-
ers, our esteemed ex-president, Emma
Smith, helped to make the occasion a
success by her motherly and wise coun-
sel.
	President Smith D. Rogers was present
at the afternoon session and spoke a
short time on the good the auxiliary or-
ganizations had done.
	The stake report showed an addition of
one new society to our ranks. It was or-
ganized at Woodland Sep. 10, 1906, by
President Mary J. R. West. The follow-
ing officers were sustained: Mary E.
Bradshaw, president; Thressa F. Johnson,
Julia E. West, counselors; Rettie Hansen
secretary and treasurer.
	President West expressed her gratitude
for the visit of the sisters and reported
the success of our missionary effort as
very gratifying. The sisters have taken
pleasure in visiting each other’s Relief
Society organizations, and thus far have
been kindly received.
	An entertainment in honor of Sisters
Woodruff and Cannon had been planned
for the evening, but as they were very
tired it was given up.
	We are doing as well as usual in our
work and endeavoring to do better still.
The sisters are liberal in their donations
and a spirit of love and union character-
izes all the society throughout the stake.
	Trusting the Lord will bless you abund-
antly, I remain sincerecly yours.
	DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Secretary.
			UINTAH.
	Minutes of 40th Relief Society confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Glines Ward, August 30, 1906, President

[Column 2]
Sarah M. Colton presiding. After the
regular exercises of singing and prayer,
roll call and reading of minutes, President
Sarah M. Colton reported the stake in
good condition. Essay from Glines Re-
lief Society read by Sister Emily Ratty,
written by Sister Annie Snider, entitled
“Progress of women.”
	Reports given from the following sis-
ters: Edna Cole reported Mountain Dell;
Sister Phebe Histop reported Maeser;
Sister Mary O’Neil reported Glines. Each
reported the respective society in good
condition. Lecture by Sister Almeda
Perre, subject, “Mother and Home In-
fluence.” Sister Emma Roberts reported
Naples. Sister Hannah Odekirk reported
Vernal. Each reported the respective
society in fair condition. Sister Nancy
A. Colton spoke a short time, referred to
the 25th chapter of Matthew, and then
spoke upon the chapter. Sister Rhoda
Goodrich spoke of the reward we will
have for our labors, also of progression
and charity. After singing and benedic-
tion, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Amelia Orser reported Jen-
son society in good condition. Instru-
mental music from Vernal Relief Society.
Sister Esther Carroll spoke on faith and
tithing and urged each and every one to
live up to the same. Sister Nancy A.
Colton spoke on faith, also spoke of the
company our children should keep, said
mothers should try and make home the
happiest place on earth. She referred to
Sunday School, what a blessing it was.
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.
	Brother Reuben S. Collett spoke of
our spreading sunshine or gloom where-
ever we go, said when we have the spirit
to teach we should teach, realized moth-
ers had a great mission, referred to the
morals of young people and of the influ-
ence mothers have over their children.
	Elder William Smart, president of
Uintah Stake spoke of punctuality, would
have been pleased to have met with the
sisters this morning, but it was impos-
sible to do so; he encouraged the sisters
in their work; said “work is the only way
of progression and if each one will work
in her place it will make the load easy for
all. If we neglect our duties we do not
reap the fruits we should.” Many good
things were said by each speaker.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to meet in Naples ward. Singing, “O
Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Presi-
dent William Smart.
		PHEBE ANN MERKLEY, Sec.
		TAYLOR STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Taylor Stake
convened in conference at Raymond, May
22, 1906, at 10 a. m.
	President Hannah M. Russell presided.
After the usual opening exersises, Sister
Annie Wells Cannon of Salt Lake City, a
member of the General Board, addressed
those present; said there are fifty-five
stakes to visit and it takes a number of
sisters to do that work. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells sent their love to the Relief
Society workers in Canada, and said they
would love to visit you, but it is too far
away.
	The Relief Society has grown from a
membership of eighteen to more than

[Column 3]
thirty-five thousand. Spoke of the order
in which everything is done by this soci-
ety. Gave instructions upon the storing
of grain, and also the nurses’class con-
ducted in Salt Lake. Desired more
nurses to take this course.
	Counselor Kate E. Paxman made a few
remarks upon Relief Society work. A
solo was rendered by Sister Nellie Ben-
nett of Stirling. Reports from all of the
wards were given, showing that they are
accomplishing much good.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. by
singing and prayer.
	At the close of the morning session an
officers, (stake and ward) meeting was
held, where special instructions were
given by Sisters Annie W. Cannon, Hannah
M. Russel; and Miriam Y. Hardy, also a
missionary from Salt Lake.
	Afternoon session, President Hannah
M. Russell presided. The usual opening
exercises were conducted. Sister Russel
reported the work and conditions of the
Taylor Stake. Expressed her pleasure in
having President Anthon H. Lund and
Apostle J. H. Smith and Stake
President H. S. Allen present. A solo
was rendered by a member of Raymond
ward. A lecture, “What the Gospel has
done for Woman,” was given by Sister
Alice Magrath. Sister Mariam Y. Hardy
one of the visitors from Salt Lake, was
pleased to be among the people of this
country. Said the chief work of the Re-
lief Society is to look after the sick and
those in need, and comfort those who are
in need of spiritual as well as physical
aid. Advised mothers to make home
pleasant, and not scold too much. Parents
should set a good example before their
children.
	A song was sung by Sister Augusta
Erickson of Stirling.
	Apostle John Henry Smith adressed the
congregation and among other things said
that he had been a student of history and
nowhere in the world do they give such
instructions in morality as are given in
the Chur[-]h of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of Relief Society work,
and said we will be judged according to
the way we look after those who need
our help.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon advised those
present to listen to the counsel of Brother
Lund and teach children by example.
	President H. S. Allen also made a few
remarks upon the rearing of children.
	A duet, “God be with us until we meet
again,” was s[-]ng by sisters from Ray-
mond.
	President Hannah M. Russell thanked
all who had assisted in making the con-
ference a success. Conference adjourned
for three months, after singing and bene-
diction.
			GERTRUDE W. CANNON,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE.
	The general quarterly conference of
Alpine stake was held at American Fork,
October 19, 1906, President Rebecca
Standring presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few remarks of wel-
come. Said “it would be well to review
our work since the organization of the
stake, and see how much we have ad-
vanced. Let us wake up and see what
progress we can make. God has promised


[Column 1]
to help us, and His power shall preserve
this work. It is too late for our enemies
to enact such scenes as the people passed
through in early days.” Prayed for a
blessing on all that may be said or done
this day.
	The presidents of wards gave their re-
ports in their usual spirited manner,
showing that the wards were in a good,
healthy condition and the sisters alive in
their duties.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, of the
General Society, addressed the meeting.
“We enjoy a good spirit when we meet
in a beautiful room like this. We are
teaching more every day by what we are
than by what we say. Many are starving
for kind words and sympathy. The Lord
sends the sunshine and the good things
of the earth to all, then let us appreciate
our blessings, even the grandeur of the
mountains and of the beautiful sunset.
Let us see the goodness of God in our
abundant blessings of field and meadow,
of garden and orchard. The Lord has
promised to take care of His people.
When trouble comes we want to push
forward and ask ourselves, Will I stand—
will I support the authorities?” The
speaker had associated with the author-
ities, and had seen the purity of heart and
the beauties of their character. Spoke
of the training of children. It should
begin with their earliest years, when they
are quite small. “Often mothers think
they can break the stubborn will, but you
might as well think of breaking their
backs. Keep your child from evil sights
and sounds, and do not put pictures on
your walls that will lead to evil in the
minds of your children to bring forth fruit
in after years.”
	Singing, “’Mid scenes of confusion and
creature complaint.”
	Sister Clayton. of Provo, said the train-
ing of children should commence at their
birth. “If they are neglected in those
early days they are almost sure to go
astray when they grow older. The little
spirits are hard to control, but we cannot
treat them with harshness. Life is too
short for mothers to get cross. The con-
trol of the child is left often entirely to
the mother, the fathers shirk the respon-
sibility, and God will judge them for this
neglect. We should thank God for trials,
for it keeps us in the line of our duty.
The path may be thorny, but it is
straight.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had
been pleased with the reports and the
remarks made. The teaching was
excellent, and should be of lasting
benefit to all. We should appreciate our
conditions and acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all our circumstances in
life and be satisfied.
	President A. J. Evans made a few re-
marks. His heart was in the cause, and
he felt the sisters were doing their duty,
and prayed God to bless them in their la-
bors.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned until 2 o’clock.

[Column 2]
		Afternoon session.
	After the opening exercises, more re-
ports were given by the presidents of
wards, showing unity and a desire to do
their duty.
	An address was given by stake mission-
ary Sina Chipman on “The use of theol-
ogy to Relief Society workers.”
	Song, “I need Thee every hour,” by
Sister Prudence Storrs.
	Extracts from Pres. James H. Clark’s
address: This Church in its simplicity is
wonderful. It reaches to the inmost
soul of man and woman. You have re-
ceived inspiration and instruction today
that is priceless. Teach your children to
be sincere in their prayers, and make it
a habit to go to the Lord for His protec-
tion and guidance. Spoke of Religion
Classes being neglected, the children in-
dulge in too much pleasure. The Prim-
ary Association is neglected, and we have
no more diligent teachers than our Prim-
ary workers. The Lord is fully guiding
the destiny of this people. His care and
protection are over His Prophet and our
leaders, and this work will go on triumph-
ant to the end.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley bore testi-
mony to the Holy Spirit. Let us take
time to serve the Lord, and not separate
in the morning until we have called our
family together and committed them to
the care of the Lord. The mother can
attend to this duty when the father is
called away to his daily labor. Let us
uphold and sustain our Prophet and those
in authority over us, for it is by prophecy
and revelation that we were organized.
	Sister Bennett, of Provo, bore testi-
mony that the Spirit of the Lord was
here today, and could fancy that the an-
gels were among us. Urged the young
mothers to come forward and join the
Relief Society and make their name and
influence felt for good,
	President Standring made closing re-
marks. Had taken pleasure and satisfac-
tion in the influence of the spirit that
had prevailed in the conference. Felt
to bless the sisters and their families, and
urged them to let it be “the kingdom of
God or nothing.” May God bless you all.
Amen.
	After singing and prayer, conference
was adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
		DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
		LADIES’ SPECIALIST
			TEACHER OF
		Obstetrics and Nursing
ROOM 417 TEMPLETON BUILDING
Phone 4372 y		-	-	Salt Lake City


Mrs. William Grey, the founder of the
Maria Grey Training College for Women,
at Brondesbury, England, has lately
died, aged ninety. Woman and Progress
(London) says: “Mrs. Grey was one of
the earliest advocates of the higher edu-
cation of women, and took a prominent
part in founding the National Union for
Improving the Education of Women, an
organization out of which the Girl’s Pub-
lic Day School Company developed.
Mrs. Grey was also a well known sup-
porter of the women’s suffrage move-
ment.”


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Nora Stanton Blatch, grand-
daughter of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, has
been appointed a member of the New
York City staff of civil engineers in charge
of the $161,000,000 Catskill water supply
system.
	Miss Florence Nightingale, who lately
entered on her eighty-seventh year, re-
ceived scores of congratulations on her
birthday. She is feeble physically, but
bright in mind, and she still interests her-
self in the Nightingale Nurses’ Training
Home. It is not generally known that
Miss Nightingale in her youth had a great
wish to study medicine, a profession then
closed to women. When Elizabeth Black-
well was pursuing her medical studies in
London, Miss Nightingale used often to
come and sit with her in her stuffy little
bedroom, and talk over their common
aspirations for woman’s welfare Miss
Nightingale has been a life-long advocate
of suffrage for women. When asked her
reasons, she answered, “I have no rea-
sons, It seems to me almost self-evident,
an axiom, that every householder and
taxpayer should have a voice in the ex-
penditure of the money we pay, includ-
ing, as this does, interests the most vital
to a human being.”
	The ministers of at least thirty churches
in Philadelphia on the Sunday before
election implored their flocks to vote for
the reform candidates. But, as two thirds
of the members of their flocks were wom-
en without votes, the anti-reform candi-
dates were elected.
	A “Birthday Calendar of Suffrage Wo-
men” has been prepared by Jane A. Stew-
art. It is “perpetual,” i. e., by an in-
genious arrangement, the dates can be
made to fit any year, simply by shifting
a little slip.
	It is enriched with portraits of Lucre-
tia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Liver-
more, Frances Willard, and Mrs. Lillian
M. N. Stevens, and gives the dates of the
birthdays of a great number of famous
women. In this particular it would be a
special help to suffrage clubs that would
like to commemorate some distinguished
woman at each meeting. There are
many well-chosen quotations in favor of
equal suffrage. Those on the first page
are from Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and
President M. Cary Thomas of Bryn Mawr.
	The calendar would make an excellent
Christmas present. It may be ordered
from the Woman’s Journal office, Boston,
Mass. Price, 30 cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
