
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JUNE, 1906						No. 1


CONTENTS.
Passing Thoughts......... Annie Wells Cannon	1
Woman’s Voice...................... B. S. Goodwin	2
Relief Society Reports—Box Elder Stake......	2
In Memoriam..................................................	3
Memorial Services........... Annie Maria Allen	3
General Relief Society Conference................	3
Mothers’ Work................................................	7
Relief Society Reports — Maricopa Stake —
	Tooele Stake............................................	8
Underground Water of the Valleys of Utah
	Lake and Jordan River, Utah...................	8
Editorial—Prosperity and Progress—Visits of
	Missionaries.............................................	4
	Daughters of the Revolution....................	5
Poetry—A Rondeau............................ E. B.W.	1
	The Awakening...........Grace Ingles Frost	3
	Homeless............. Maud Ellen Baggarley	3


A RONDEAU.
When May-time comes, and lilacs are in bloom,
And blue-eyed violets waft their sweet perfume,
And lilies nod along the limpid stream,
Then poets wander in an idle dream,
And weave bright fancies in kind Nature’s loom,
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes the apple blossoms sweet,
Pale pink and white are flut’ring at our feet;
The song-bird building high its pretty nest
In swaying tree-top coo's its mate to res[-];
Fond lovers too, think then their bliss complete,
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes young life is all aglow,
True lovers whisper secrets soft and low,
They hie away to s[-]me secluded nook
Their voices mingling with the murm’ring brook
And plight their faith. Ah, me. ’tis ever so!
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes I sit in moonlight’s glow,
And watch the flitting shadows come and go;
I see the mists of beauty fade away
From the far bills where silv’ry moonbeams stray
Among the pines that sing so soft and low
When May-time comes.

When May-time comes one mem’ry ever dear,
Float’s o’er my soul its music soft and clear,
Thrilling my pulses e’en to finger tips,
While tender words are trembling on my lips
And visions of the loved and lost are near
When May-time comes.
E. B. W.
May 16, 1906.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	Yes, we went to Calder’s Park—the
daughters of the Pioneers and their friends
—and it was a great day. Full of present
enjoyment and rich in reminiscences.
	A right loyal little band are the daugh-
ters, and they love to recall the great work
of their fathers and mothers in building
up this Western empire; they love to honor
those, who yet are with us, who made that
memorable journey across the plains and
who toiled in the early days as only pion-
eers can toil whether men or women, in
the breaking up of new soil, the early
planting and building, the making their
own soap, candles, rush lights, clothing,

[Column 2]
the living in log cabins with mud roofs,
the very fighting with the elements for a
mere existence, and yet who never com-
plained but with prayer and song praised
the great Giver and with cheerful hearts
still toiled bravely on; to honor those,
who are left and the memory of those
gone before, The daughters of the Pioneers
exist in an organized way and some times
have occasions rich in reminiscent ex-
pression. Such was the day at Calder’s.
The girls appeared in old fashioned cost-
umes, some of them, in dresses their
mothers wore, others copied from old
miniatures with old fashioned laces and
jewelry for decoration and they looked
perfect pictures of the long ago. It did
not seem long, though in fact ’t was more
than two hours we stood listening to the
dear old hymns of “Babylon O Babylon
we bid thee Farewell,” “Hard Times
Come Again no More” and “Come Come
ye Saints” sung by some of the sweetest
of Zion’s singers and the stories of “How
one Woman Crossed the Plains”, “Early
Industries” “Pioneer Education” “Early
Theatricals” as told by President Smith,
Governor Cutler, Bishop Whitney and
Miss Adams. ’Twas all so good, so true,
and brought to our minds so many me-
mories of the past. And what a setting
—a perfect day at Calder’s Park. You
know any amount of money does’nt
change Calder’s much. It still lies at the
foot of the Wasatch Hills. The same
cool, dangerous spring feeds the lakes
where we love to boat ride, and the same
old apple trees are there, which afforded
us shelter twenty years ago. Modern
amusements of course make some changes,
we dance the two step now in a pavilion,
where once we danced the schottische in a
bowery. The boys play bass ball on a
chalked diamond, where town ball across
a line was the old form. The girls play
basket ball and Tennis where Copenhagen
and croquet used to reign, and our hearts
go in our mouths and we close our eyes
and stop breathing, while the young folks
dash into the water down a shoot the
chute, while the old fashioned swing or
moonlight boat ride used to be sufficient-
ly exciting. But its still the same old place
where for over thirty years the schools
and Sunday Schools have held excursions
and the dancing and the picnic and the
boat rides and the meeting of friends
brings the past into the present and
though time has streaked our hair with
gray and our faces lined, our hearts seem
young when friend meets friend on such
a day.
	There were tears in many eyes when
President Smith related the brave journey
of his mother with her family of little chil-
dren, bereft as they were by the cruel
savagery of a mob, of the father and pro-
tector, but mingled with the tears was ad-
miration for such undaunted courage.
There was smiles and laughter as Bishop
Whitney so delightfully related his early
school experiences for many were in the
audience, who also recalled Bro. Peck and
Dr. Doremus and other pedagogues of the
“Village School.”

[Column 3]
	Much interest was felt in the early at-
tempts at home manufacture as told by
Governor Cutler and many smacked their
lips at the remembrance of Bro. Goddards
cider.
	With great expectation we greeted our
old favorite Asenath Adams, waiting for
what we knew she could give us a rare
treat of early theatricals, but great, also
was our disappointment for with brief
mention of our old historic theatre and
the men and women who played there,
who by the way some were present, Hi-
ram and Margaret Clawson, Phil Margetts
Nellie Colebrook, and many asked where
is John T. Caine and David McKenzie,
gave us a long talk on Patriotism and a
promise if “we do right” Utah may yet
be a great state.” Well all this is good
enough but quite superfluous to the daught-
ers of the Pionrees for it is our very loyalty
that has caused us to exist and our pa-
triotism is beyond a question. So we ask-
ed Miss Adams because we are loyal to
her as a Utah woman to give us personal
reminiscences of the early drama in Salt
Lake. What a field for a fine talk. The
dear old theatre, built long before the
railroad, on whose boards the greatest
men and women of Thespian Art have
trod. Could’nt she remember the wonder-
ful presentations there given of Shake-
speare’s plays, when John McCullough and
Edwin Adams and Paunceforte assisted by
our own stock company, she herself the
star educated in young Utah the taste for
the classic drama. How refreshing would
have been a description of the presen-
tation of Macbeth when the daughters of
President Young and Squire Wells and
other “society girls” togged themselves
up for witches and under the training of
Prof. Careless, sang the original Music of
that great play, when Brother Geo. Teas-
dale as Hecate descended from the clouds
in a mist of blue gauze and Phil Mar-
getts, Harry Bowring, and John C.
Graham stirred the boiling cauldron as
the three witches of Endor. ‘T would
doubtless be a pleasant reminder of old
times to recall Edwin Adams’ finished
portrayal of Hamlet, with Nellie Cole-
brook as Ophelia, or the notable Rip
Van Winkle of Joseph Jefferson, not for-
getting that later, in company with Mrs.
John Drew, we saw him in his great part
of Bob Acres to her Mrs. Malaprop, in
Sheridan’s fine old play “The Rivals.”
	Would it be out of place to recall East
Lynne and Uncle Tom’s Cabin, where
little Edith Clawson first gave promise of
histrionic art in the touching part of Eva,
and “The Octoroon,” where John T.
Caine’s Indian, David McKenzie’s Mc-
Closky and the Yankee of John C. Gra-
ham, were so well portrayed as never to
be forgotten.
	A little reminder of the old “Green
Room,” where actors and actresses meet
in a social way between the acts. How
many scenes of personal encounter its
walls could tell of, if only walls had tongues
as well as ears.
	In e[-]ery profession there are ups and
downs and the theatrical doubtless has


more of these, especially the “downs”
than any other. No one escapes it, and
it once happened when Miss Adams her-
self felt especially down, in Salt Lake, a
fine presentation of the two Orphans was
given for her benefit by some amateur
talent. It was then that Keetie Heywood
Orson Whitney, John Spencer, H. M.
Wells, Lottie Claridge and other young
people came to the front in her support,
and out of this presentation probably
grew that delightful company known as
the “Home Dramatic Club.” Well these
are just two or three out of the hundreds
of reminiscences we might haye heard of
early theatricals.
	Memory takes me back and I well re-
member as a little girl, sitting entranced
with Miss Adams’ sweet voice and grace-
ful acting. The old theatre is the same,
and even now it is the best playhouse in
the West, and we wish she had not for-
gotten.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE
	I have just been reading the May number
of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and enjoyed
it, it is full of good things; the piece
written by Louisa Gray on the “Life of
the deceased Jane M. Baxter”—interest-
ed me very much; we traveled together by
sea and land, we cooked our scones over
the same fire, and we slept in the same
tent, and part of the time pulled the same
hand cart; and when I read it, it brought
back incidents of that memorable journey
that I almost had forgotten. I remember
well the incident of “the candle” I have
heard my mother and Sister Baxter talk
it over with thankfulness that it lasted
while he lived, her dying husband.
	My mother sat with her and the silent
dead until the grey dawn of the Morning.
Well “blessed are the dead that die in
the Lord for they shall find rest.”
	We had a very enjoyable time at our
last Relief Society Conference in Beaver.
Sisters’ Caine and Dusenberry gave us
many good instructions, I enclose a piece
of poetry that I composed on the Fiftieth
Anniversary of our leaving Scotland.
	I wrote it thinking it might be interest-
ing to my children or grand children when
I have passed away and others may like
to read it.
					B. S. GOODWIN.
	Beaver, Utah.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake, convened in the Tabernacle
Brigham City, June 12th, 1906. On the
stand besides the Stake Relief Society
Officers were Counselor Annie T. Hyde
and Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the
General Board, and Elder W. C. Horsley
of Stake Presidency. President Susannah
P. Booth presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Booth made an address of welcome
in which she said it was our duty to go to
our meetings and receive spiritual food,
if we put our trust in the Lord, he will
help us, and bless us in our labors, spoke
on punctuality, hoped the spirit of the
Lord would be with us in our conference,

[Column 2]
and that we would have a time of rejoice-
ing together.
	Lydia E. Watkins, President of Beaver
Ward Ass’n. reported they had no poor,
but were able to do some good. Urania
C. Nelson, President of Thatcher Ass’n:
reported they had not been able to hold
meetings regular, on account of sickness,
their teachers visit regularly. Sister Julia
P. M. Farnsworth said this was the first time
she had visited Brigham City in the cap-
acity of a society worker, but knew from
reports we were a prosperous and energ-
etic people; said there were more ways
than one, to aid and assist one another,
thought there were not another set of
women any where who had the freedom
and privileges of the women of Utah,
made many other good remarks.
	The congregation sang, Glorious things
are sung of Zion,
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said she felt
blessed this morning in being one with
the sisters, said it was woman’s sphere on
earth, to raise a posterity, and if we love
the Lord and put our trust in Him he will
help us, felt we were entitled to the bless-
ings of the Lord to direct us and we have
to make ourselves as one with our chil-
dren, and teach them the principles of
the gospel, spoke on patience and prayer
in the home, alluded to the giving of Sun-
day eggs, and the amount which had been
made through saving them. Urged the
holding of Board and Officers Meetings,
spoke on the Mothers’ work, we want
every young mother’s name enrolled, gave
good advice in regard to getting an at-
tendance, and making our meetings a suc-
cess, we should have love and charity one
to another, dwelt up on marriage and our
children marrying outside our Church,
said we should teach our children to marry
in the temple, also talk to them to hold
all things sacred, felt we should encourage
our children in marriage, and to put all
the care and protection around them that
we could, and we should put our trust in
God, and get all the help we could from
Him in helping us guide our children.
	President Booth made a few closing
remarks. Meeting adjurned until 2 p.m.
Singing and Benediction.
	2 P.m. Meeting opened with usual
exercises. President Booth reported a
letter from Stone Ass’n. they were increas-
ing in numbers, and doing nicely in their
mothers work, she was pleased also to see
so many present this afternoon, felt the
Relief Society work was a grand work,
and she had a great desire to do all she
could to assist in the advancement of the
same, spoke on the resignation of Sister
Peters, who had been released on account
of poor health, said she had labored over
40 years with the sisters in different cap-
acaties, and had always had love and un-
ity in her labors.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters was as much
interested as ever in the Relief Society
work, but felt on account of her health it,
was better for her to give up her position,
she often wondered if it was for a purpose
she was so afflicted, but was willing to
stand it, if it would keep her in the faith,
said Sister Harding was all right in the
place she was in, asked the Lord to bless
us, that we may be faithful and press on
in the good work.
	Counselor Mary Harding felt she was
not worthy to fill this position, but knew
this was the work of the Lord, and was
willing to do all the good that she could,

[Column 3]
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Julia Bingham President of Garland
Ass’n. reported they had some sickness
and some poor. Sophie Larsen of East
Garland Ass’n. felt considering the short
time they had been organized, they were
doing very nicely.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madson hoped
she would be able to remember some little
points that were good that she heard to
day; spoke on surprise parties, felt we
ought not to encourage so many of them,
let us show one another that we love to
go about doing good, let us be faithful
and not confidence breakers, but do one
another all the good that we can.
	Sister Emeline Watkins rendered a solo,
“I love to hear my Savior’s voice.”
	Counselor A. T. Hyde knew the Relief
Society was always looking after the sick,
dead or dying, but felt we also needed
spiritual development, suggested our visit-
ing with the Young Ladies and Primaries
and giving them our encouragement,
spoke on the gathering of wheat, read a
piece from pamphlet, and the letter from
President Joseph F. Smith, spoke on the
mothers work, and urged the sisters to
take interest in it, also wished the sisters
to take interest in the Nurses Classes, as
they were anxious to have Nurses who
understand the uses of herbs and all other
things regarding health, spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, and made many other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Juilia P. M. Farnsworth, said you
must have a very good President and
Bishops to have such a good Relief Society,
gave the message sent by Sisters B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells, spoke on the
Hymn that we sang which had been com-
posed for the women of Zion, and on the
question of our marriage duties and of the
spirit which was getting in amongst the
people of not wanting to raise families,
spoke also of Nurses, urged the sending
of some of our sisters to these classes.
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl spoke
of the fidelity of Sister Booth and her
great interest in the work, felt to regret
Sister Peters having to give up her posi-
tion but realized it was all for the best,
and that Sister Harding would be as able
as Sister Peters, spoke on the Mothers
going out more with the Young Ladies
felt it was very important for them to be
interested in the amusements of their sons
and daughters, he was proud of the Relief
Society of this stake and pleased with the
work of the Mothers.
	President Booth felt to thank all for
their presence here to day and also to
thank the visiting sisters for their good
instruction, Conference then adjourned
sine die after Singing and Benediction.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
					Asst. Secretary.


Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, of Los
Angeles, is publishiag a book, entitled,
“The Mother of Clubs.” It is described
as a remarkable record of achievement in
that direction. Her friend Mrs. Ruddy.
says: “In her eighty-seventh year, with
mind still active, eager and alert, Ma-
dame Severance is a center of light for
those who are in sympathy with the
broadest humanitarian impulses, who love
the loftiest literature, and who believe in
the highest life.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE AWAKENING.
	GRACE INGLES FROST.
All nature hath awakened
	From the long winter’s sleep
The leaden clouds have vanished,
	The skies no longer weep;
The long, gray days are over,
	And trees that then were bare,
Are laden now with blossoms
	Whose fragrance fills the air.
Gay silver-throa'ed birdlings
	Are with us once again,
They sing from morn ’til evening
	Their thankful, joyous strain.
The bullfrogs in the marsh s
	Croak, croak their songs by night,
Where ignis fatuus dances
	Fantastically and bright;
And stars in azure setting
	Are twinkling up above.
While Luna’s beams are bathing
	The land with light of love.
The earth is full of beauty—
Behold it and rejoice;
From man and mankind only
	Is heard the sorrowing vo ce.


HOMELESS
	MAUD ELLEN BAGGARLEY.
Homeless and lonely, through earth’s darkness
	groping,
The cares of existence e’er hiding the way;
Some moments forgetting the love of our Father,
And oftentimes even too tired to pray.
The blessings of home to its is a phantom,
Ambition’s Laurel is to be our life’s prize:
And though many who seek will only find sorrow,
We shall still hope on, for hope never dies.
We may walk, with sad hearts, through bright
	faces,
Through highways of “Vanity Fair,”
And mirth that is hollow will answer heart’s
	pleading,
Soul rest, you will never find there!
The world will laugh at your suffering,
Or frown when you do your best;
For behind its gay mask the world’s eyes are
	cruel,
And ’tis most in earnest when it seems most in
	jest.
For home, some can never be thankful
Till they tire of the world s useless din;
Ah, home is not a mere place of shelter,
Nor the Laurel the best crown to win!
Oh, you who have homes filled with bright, pleas-
	ant faces.
For the sake of life’s happiness ne’er leave them
	to roam.
For Fortune’s pathway’s thorniest places
Look bright from the clear, sunny windows of
	home.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ALMIRA J. MERRILL.
	Mrs. Almira J. Merrill, wife of the late Apostle
M. W. Merrill, died at Richmond, Cache County,
Utah, Sunday, April 8, 1906, a[-]ter an illness ex-
tending over some years. Sister Merrill was the
daughter of Frederick and Elizabeth Pond Bain-
bridge, and was born in Salt Lake City, August 29,
1849. The summer prec[-]ding her birth her father
went to California in search of gold and never re-
turned Later her mother marr[-]e[-] Beason Lewis
In 1860 they moved to Cache Valley, locating in
Richmond, where they have since resided. While
in her girlhood Almira became the wife of Marrin-
er Wood Merrill. As she was only in her 57 h
year it is thought that the death of her husband,
which occurred February 6, 1906, hastened her
death. She passed through all the trying scenes
incident to pioneer life in Cache Valley She was
one of the pioneer school teachers of the county
and with her mother taught the first school in
Richmond.
	She was always an active Church worker in the
various ward organizations. She was chosen
president of the Richmond Relief Society June 15,
1879, and ably presided over it for twenty-two

[Column 2]
years, having to resign on account of failing
health For seventeen years she was afflicted
with gall stones, and many times when an attack
came on she was confined to her bed for weeks.
She endured her pain and suffering without com-
plaint, and even felt hopeful a[-]d cheerful. About
five months ago other complications set in, and all
that loving hands and skillful nursing could do
was of no avail, her noble spirit taking its flight
to j[-]in her loved ones on the other side.
	She was the mother of twelve children, eight
sons and four daughters Her children are: Chas.
E and Mrs. Libbie A. Hendricks, of Richmond;
Dr. Heber K, of Logan; Prof. Alber[-] M. of Ash-
ley, Idaho, principal of Cassia Stake A[-]ademy
Prof Lewis A, of Salt Lake, editor of the “Des-
eret Farmer; 'Lorin A., of Logan, recorder in the
Logan Temp[-]e Prof. Fred. W., principal of the
Nephi High School; Mrs. Jos. P Sharp, who de-
parted th s life about sixteen months before her
mother; Dr. Preston R., of Salt Lake; Leon E,
now on a mission to the Northern States, Alvaret-
ta and Orella, unmarried daughters, the youngest
seventeen years of age; also she had 37 grand-
children.
	Sister Merrill was of a highly intellectual na-
ture a[-]d took great interest in educational mat-
ters. She was cultured and refined, a great read-
er, and was alwa[-]s posted on all the current events
of the day,
	She possessed a wonderful influen[-]e for good
over her children, and always taught them the
principles of the Gospel of which she was a firm
believer. Her son Leon, who recently went on a
mission, did so at her special request as her illness
bade fair to be a lingering one, and there was a
hope for her [-]ecovery. She loved her children
tenderly and they in return were very devoted to
her. She was a faithf l and loving wife, a friend
to [-]he poor and needy. Her funeral was held
Wednesday, April 11, and was very largely at-
tended, friends coming from all over Utah and
Idaho to pay their last respects to their loved
friend and sister It was beautiful to hear the sons
of the other wives of Apostle Merrill testify to her
goodness of heart, her loving kindness, and the
wise counsel of “Aunt Myra,” as she was lovingly
called by the family. They all bore testimony
that she was one of the noblest women of the
earth.
	The casket was literal[-]y buried in flowers, many
designs coming from a long distance. She has
gone to join her noble husband, her daughter Em-
ma, her mother, and a host of others in that beau-
tiful home of rest and peace.
MAGGiE T MERRILL,
LrZZIE DOTY.
RESOLUTIONS.
	At the first Relief Society meeting held after
her death the following resolutions were read and
adopted:
	Resolutions of respect in memory of Sister Al-
mira J. Merrill, who departed this life April 8,
1906.
	We, the officers and members of the Richmond
Relief Society, feel in the loss o[-] our dear friend
and ex-president, that a good and faithful member
has been called to a happier home, where she will
be wel[-]omed as we know she was always wel-
comed in our circles here.
	For we can truly say she was a friend to the
poor and needy, and had a cheerful word to give
them by way of encouragement as well as assist-
ance.
	Much could be said in praise of her good works
and her wise counsel. We feel that her mis ion
on earth was fulfilled and she was wanted on the
other side; that she was prepared to j[-]in her loved
ones who had gone to that glorious mansion pre-
pared for the just.
	Whereas, we, the members of the Relief Society
sympathize with the bereaved family.—May her
sons and daughters be comforted in the assurance
that their mother [-]s not dead, but gone to con-
tinue her labors in a far better world. May we
cherish her memory and strive to emulate her no-
ble example.
	Be it resolved that we read a sketch of her life
and these resolutions in Relief Soc[-]ety meeting;
that a copy be entered on Relief Society record,
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and a copy be sent to the bereaved family.

	The following was written in the “Oakley
Eagle.” edited by Albert M. Merrill, one of Aunt
Myra’s sons:
OUR MOTHER.
	We were called to mourn, last week, the lo[-]s of
our dear mother, in our estimation the dearest,
swee[-]est, best woman that ever graced the earth.
For fifty-six years and more she fought the stren-

[Column 3]
uous battle of life, coming out victorious in every
contest, but has now succumbed te the grim reap-
er, and has gone to the land where she shall be
forever free from sorrow, pain and ache which
racked her body here.
	We accept the opinion of all who knew her, that
she was indeed one of earth’s noble women. She
was the embodiment of goodness itself, and will
forever remain our ideal of true and beautiful
womanhood. When very young she entered that
order of marriage which is so despised by the
world, but to which she was so sincerely, devoted-
ly converted, and which did for her what nothing
else could do: crushed every selfish, sensuous,
worldly tendency, and which developed to highest
excellence every virtue that belongs to wife and
[-]otherhood.
	She bore and reared practically twelve robust
children, the youngest at her demise being seven-
teen years of age. She loved her children ten-
derly, and her love has been to some extent re-
quited, for she has ever enjo[-]ed the supreme con-
fidence and almost reverential devotion of her
sons and daughters. She cared little for the
things of this earth, save as thev contributed to
things eternal. She was highly intellectual, and
alwas took a lively interest in things that tend to
soul development. She was a faithful and loving
wife, unselfishly devoted to her husband’s interest
and welfare. For her husband, her children, her
friends and acquaintances, indeed, for all of God’s
children she lived, and in the Lord she [-]as died.
To Him we reluctantly, sorrowfully commend her
spirit, and may He grant that she shall still have
her loving, protecting guardianship over us


MEMORIAL SERVICE.

	Meetings were held in honor of Sister
Elizabeth Stevenson, a member of the
General Board of Relief Society, by the
Relief Society branches of Emery
Stake, May 7, 1906. The memorial meet-
ing held at Castle Dale, May 7, 1906.
Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Prayer by Carrie O. Larsen.
Singing, “Sister, thou wast mild and
lovely.” Reading items of the life, death
and funeral of Sister Elizabeth Steven-
son, by Stake Secretary Annie Maria Al-
len. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Stake President Mary A. Sorensen
spoke feelingly of the noble character of
our dear sister, of her strong faith and
fidelity to the Gospel, of her great desire
to talk to the sisters, and referred to in-
structions given to the sisters of this
stake by this dear sister on former visits,
as being instructions from a woman of
God, the same would never be forgotten.
	Solo, “Shall we gather at the river,”by
Lucy Seely.
	Sister Clarissa Jane Seely, of Mount
Pleasant, said she had been acquainted
with Sister Stevenson since the year 1858,
and knew her to be a faithful woman who
always tried to do right, to live uprightly
before the Lord; hoped that when she
passed from this stage of action she
might die in the harness as Sister Steven-
son had done,
	Prest. Mary J. Seely thanked the sisters
for their hearty response and for the
beautiful po ted plants and cut flowers
which they had furnished on this acca-
sion for decoration.
	Singing, “Thou dost not weep to weep
alone.” Benediction by Annie J. King.
		ANNIE MARIA ALLEN,
					Stake R. S. Sec.


Mrs. Frances C. Monken, of East St.
Louis, III., who is ninety-three years old,
is well and strong. She reads and writes
without glasses and plays on the piano.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.		-		JUNE 1906


[Column 1]
	PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS.
	Whatever may be said in regard to the
times in which we are now living or com-
plaints made, the new century and the
larger half of the nineteenth century,
certainly all must acknowledge these days
as a period of prosperity almost, if not
quite unequaled in the history of nations.
	To be sure there are great disasters and
calamities, and accidents innumerable,
causing much sorrow and anxiety, yet
aside from all that, and notwithstanding
the pessimistic views of a few would-be
wiseacres, there was never anything, we
can read, or hear of like the times of pro-
gress and prosperity of the actual pres-
ent.
	Turning our attention backward to the
early part of the nineteenth century, it
sets one’s head whirling almost, to con-
template the enormous changes in every
phase of living since that time. Were
the young folks of today to have the his-
tory of the past open to them, say even
fifty or sixty years ago, it would be diffi-
cult for them to imagine how their fore-
fathers and mothers lived, even those in
comparatively comfortable circumstances.
The hardest working classes at the pres-
ent time, with notably few exceptions,
are really better provided with the com-
forts and conveniences of housekeeping
and out-door working machinery, and in
many other respects, than those of what
would then be termed, “people in easy
circumstances.”
	It is scarcely possible to estimate in any
sense, how superior in all ways now are
the advantages of the homes and sur-
roundings in the domestic life of Ameri-
cans, and in fact one might say of all
English-speaking families, in eyery tem-
poral particular.
	It is true also that even those who have
seen what is called “hard times,” do not
fully appreciate the vast difference be-
tween then and now, and in many, per-
haps the greater number of instances,
fail to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in causing these things to come to pass,
that have wrought such miracles, as it
were in the new civilization. There are
many who go on murmuring, though
they are surrounded with comforts, some-
times even luxuries,. It seems strange
that people can be so dissatisfied with
comparatively prosperous conditions, and
are continually reaching out and aspiring
after more and more.
	In worldly matters the majority of peo-

[Column 2]
ple have what would formerly, and not
so very long ago either, been considered
wealth, or at any rate what would make
for comfortable living. The old story of
the man who wanted riches, and declared
to his wife that he was determined to be
rich, is a good comparison; she didn’t want
riches, only to be comfortable, the man
got rich, but his wife was never comfort-
able. No matter how grasping people
may be they can’t get the moon; but
they have in this day got the fulness of
the earth, so to speak.
	Man with his great endowments, of
strength and activity of mind and body,
with ingenuity, skill and achievements,
has by the blessing of the Lord, brought
such prosperity, and such remarkable pro-
gress has been attained along so many
lines of improvement by land and by sea,
that one is filled with admiration at what
has already come to pass, and wonders
what giant schemes are to be launched
forth to astonish the inhabitants of this
little globe, and for the betterment of the
conditions of life and advancement of the
interests of the world of nations and peo-
ples.
	Amazement and awe, are the only words
one can use, for it is impossible to de-
scribe in fitting language what has been
accomplished in the rapid strides made
in all the material works of mankind dur-
ing the last half century, or a little more.
	The great products of the world are
brought to one’s very doors; the gigantic
achievements in the naval, commercial,
agricultural and architectural movements
on a scientific basis are of mammoth
proportions, and indeed are too appalling
to sum up in one’s own mind.
	Sometimes in speaking of these things
one is met by the exclamation, “What
about the pyramids?” Yes, the pyramids
are doubtless one of the greatest achieve-
ments of mankind, but they took a whole
nation of people to build them, and cen-
turies of time; whereas the new inven-
tions and vast modern enterprises of
our own time have only covered a century
or little more, that is, all the greater ones.
It has not been the work of a combined
nation, but the great brain and handwork
of a few stalwarts to conceive, and a host
of skilled artisans to carry out and exe-
cute the plans, rudely thought out at
first perhaps, and developed as they ma-
tured in the mind, and in form after-
wards.
	Along intellectual, educational, artistic,
and musical advancement the pace has
been kept up in proportion to the ma-
terial and industrial growth, and again
one may say, we have no book of recent
times like the Bible, nor have we a poet
like Shakespeare, or even Milton, nor a
Raphael, or Rembrandt, Titian, or Michael
Angelo. But there are always conondrums
to be solved, and the people who ask these
puzzling questions are the ones who
should answer them for the benefit of
others.
	The human race is not going backward
but forward at a tremendous rate, and
the one thing lacking in the present age,
more than aught else is spiritual progress
to equal the mental and material. 
	There are however, some hopeful signs
of tendencies and aspirations towards
higher ideals, and permanent footholds
for greater faith in God and the spread of
everlasting truth; the words of the Savior

[Column 3]
who taught great fundamental truths in
simplicity, as He walked and talked with
His disciples in and around Galilee, are
being promulgated, and if even in a small
degree the tiny seed is scattered, it will
in due time yield precious fruit.
	The Lord has spoken from the heavens
in this day of greater progress and en-
lightenment, even as He did in times of
old to His prophets; and because of this
greater dispensation, the fulness of times,
these great manifestations of genius and
of resource have come to pass, in fulfill-
ment of the words of men who spoke by
the gift and power of the Holy Ghost
through inspiration from on high. 
	The movement of many in the interest
of peace and arbitration, is one of the
best indications of the great changes to-
wards universal peace, and assuredly
there are silent forces working for the
betterment of the world. The Lord has
set His hand to accomplish the greatest
miracle and wonder of the latter-days.
Therefore those who have understanding
and whose minds are open to receive and
to discern the truth that is being pro-
claimed, and will eventually be carried
to all nations, may expect to see greater
things than in any other age of the world,
and although men marvel at what is now
taking place in the material world, if
they search the Scriptures they will find
that much more must come to pass, and
that a greater awakening to the truth as
taught by the Savior of the world is near
at hand, and it behooves those who have
knowledge of the fulfillment of prophecy
to walk in the light, and to keep their
lamps trimmed and burning; and in all
humility teach the simple lessons of faith,
repentance and baptism for remission of
sins, and by examples of purity, devotion
and integrity, emphasize their teachings,
consecrating time and talents to the up-
building of Zion.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited this year by misionaries
sent from the General Board, appointed
by President Bathsheba W. Smith are:—
Utah, April 20, at Provo, Utah, Sisters
Annie Wells Cannon and Rebecca E.
Little, Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbury
was also one of the speakers at the con-
ference.
	Emery, April 24, at Emery, Utah, Sis-
ters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Hattie
B. Harker. Sister Stevenson was too ill
to attend the conference but Sister Hark-
er filled the appointment.
	Beaver, May 11, at Beaver, Utah,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and
Sister Margaret A. Caine.
	Benson, May 12, at Lewiston, Utah,
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L.
Smith and Priscilla Smith, the last named
joined them at Logan, where she was
attending college.
	Millard, May 18, at Deseret, Utah,
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Cache, May 18, at Logan, Utah, Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde and Sister Susan
Grant.
	Taylor, May 18, at Stirling, Canada,
Sisters Annie Wells Cannon and Miriam
Young Hardy.
	Hyrum, May 19, at Hyrum, Utah,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Sister
Susan Grant.


Alberta, May 25, at Cardston, Canada,
Sisters Annie Wells Cannon and Miriam
Young Hardy.
	North Sanpete, May 26, at Fairview,
Utah, Sisters Rebecca E. Little and Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox.
	South Sanpete, May 28, at Manti, Utah
Rebecca E. Little and Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox.
	Jordan, May 28, East Jordan, Utah,
Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Hattie
B. Harker.
	Bannock, May 31, Soda Springs, Idaho
Sisters Carrie S. Thomas and Hattie B,
Harker.
	Liberty, June 1, 2nd Ward, Salt Lake
City, Sisters Emily S. Richards and Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp.
	Uintah, June 1, at Maeser, Utah, Sis-
ters Clarissa S. Williams and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Woodruff, June 6, at Randolph, Utah,
Sisters Susan Grant, and Sarah Jenne
Cannon.
	Box Elder, June 12, at Brigham City,
Utah, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and
Sister Julja P. M, Farnsworth. 
	Onieda, June 13, at Preston, Idaho,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth.
	Wasatch, June 15, Heber City, Utah,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Zina Young Card.
	Summit, June 17, at Coalville, Utah,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Alice Mer-
ill Horne.
	Cassia, June 22, at Oakley, Idaho, Sis-
ters Susan Grant and Priscilla Smith.
	Sevier, June 22, at Richfield, Utah,
Sisters Clarissa Smith Williams and
Phoebe Young Beatie.
	Bear Lake, June 24, Paris, Idaho, Sis-
ters Margaret A. Caine and Hattie B.
Harker.
	Star Valley, June 27, Afton, Wyoming,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine, and Hattie B.
Harker.
	Malad, June 29, Malad, Idaho, Sisters
Ellis R. Shipp and Rebecca E. Little.
	Pocatello, June 30, at Rockland, Idaho,
Sisters Margaret A. Caine and Hattie B.
Harker.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution celebrated in a patriotic
manner the anniversary of the Battle of
Lexington, April 19, at the headquarters in
the Templeton Building in this city, with
sentiments and speeches. The decora-
tions were in the Society colors, also
flowers and vases, stars and stripes being
conspicuously displayed. The Regent,
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon, presided with
dignity and grace. There were a few
invited guests present who took part in
the proceedings.
	The 16th of May the members of the
Society were the guests of the Regent and
the Corresponding Secretary, and were
entertained at the residence of Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey Corresponding Sec-
retary. The elegant new home was dec-
orated in the Society colors and beauti-
fully draped, and a display of flags large
and small and vases of wild flowers, buff
and blue were scattered about the rooms
giving it quite an artistic, floral appear-
ance. The Regent gave the report of
her year’s work which was very interest-
ingly written and perfectly given and


elicited considerable praise. Although
the day was very unfavorable and kept a
good share of the members away, yet it
was an enjoyable afternoon and when
the guests assembled in the dining room,
the dainty manner in which the viands
were decorated in colors was indeed a
happy surprise, and evinced the most
delicate ingenuity on the part of the
hostesses. The daintiness, the color
scheme, the ribbons and appurtenances,
did not detract from the flavor or deli-
ciousness of the various dishes prepared
by these graduates of the Boston Cook-
ing School, and all enjoyed the luncheon
and were bountifully served. It was a
very happy day and will long be remem-
bered by those who attended. Much
regret was expressed for the absent mem-
bers.
	The annual meeting and election of
officers was held on June 12, 1906, in the
Society Room, the Regent, Mrs. M.A H.
Cannon, presiding. Minutes of the an-
nual meeting in June, 1905, were read
and approved, and brief reports were
given by all the officers present, and the
Treasurer’s report, which was written,
and very complete, was read by the Sec-
retary in the absence of the Treasurer.
The election of officers followed and re-
sulted in the following officers for the
ensuing year. Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R.
Webber, First Vice Regent, Mr Alice
M. Horne, Second Vice Regent, Mrs.
Diana F. Rich; Recording Secretary Mrs.
Isabel M. W. Sears, Assistant Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Emily Y. Clawson, Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Clarice Y.
Spencer, Treasurer, Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beatie, Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall, Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah F.
Smith. This completed the business of
the day,and the next annual meeting will
be held in June, 1907. The regular
monthly meetings will commence again,
September 16, allowing three months
summer vacation.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
ble Hall, Thursday, April 5, 1906, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Prof. Charles Kent
rendered as a solo the beautiful hymn,
“I know that my Redeemer lives,” Mrs.
Kent accompanying him upon the organ.
The effect of the singing was very uplift-
ing. Prayer was offered by Sister Susan
Grant. Congregation sang, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation,” etc.
Sister Annie Wells Cannon, secretary
pro tem, called the roll of General Offic-
ers and Presidents of Stakes. There was
an excellent representation from the sev-
eral stakes and a very large congregation
for a morning session.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith wel-
comed the congregation in a few words of
encouragement and greeting, and signified
her wish that the Presidents of Stakes
report, as there were many present, and
called upon those from a distance. Snow-
flake was reported by Sister Jeannette
M. Smith, treasurer. The settlements in
that stake are scattered, considerable dis-
tance to travel, the presidency visit all
the wards regularly, the average attend-
ance at meetings is very good. There

[Column 2]
are many lovely little homes in Snow-
flake; the sisters have no particular way
to get means to help those who travel
around, but a little troop of young folks
gave some home dramatic performances
and gave the Relief Society sisters fifty
dollars; the society own a carriage, but
have to hire horses when they travel, rec-
ently they raised means and bought a
cow and gave to a poor family that they
had to provide for. They have one visit
a year from the General Board, whichi s
much appreciated. The speaker felti t
was a great privilege to be here, though
she had to come a long distance to attend
the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey reported
Bear Lake Stake, she had presided there
now many years, and felt glad to be able
to come to the conference, and report the
sisters were improving in every way;
spoke of the temporal conditions, and of
her enjoyment in visiting among the sis-
ters and holding district conferences, she
was proud to represent the stake; thought
the Relief Society the grandest organiza-
tion in the world, worth all the efforts we
could possibly make for its onward pro-
gress.
	Alberta Stake was reported by Sister
Rhoda Hinman as heing in a very pros-
perous condition, quite an increase in
members, and it covered a great deal of
ground, 200 miles a[-]ound, they visited
once a year, and the nearer branches
twice a year; she felt the sisters were do-
ing well.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, a mem-
ber of the General Board, was delighted
to see such a fine attendance at a morn-
ing session; spoke of our living in a great
and important age when everything
seems advancing rapidly, education, art
and the sciences, and in the midst of it
all there are many more cares and anx-
ieties in regard to our children; there is
greater responsibilities for the mothers
because with the growth of knowledge
and intelligence, the mothers must keep
abreast of the times to be able to discuss
various subjects and enter into all the
topics of the day and the hour. Truth is
ever onward; but above all let us be true
to ourselves then we can help others;
Sister Farnsworth alluded to the sisters
who had done so much for the great work
in which we are engaged, she appreciated
what they had accomplished for those
younger women who are now coming into
the ranks, her remarks, though brief,
were very excellent.
	Counselor Rose Hammond spoke for
Tooele Stake. everything was in good
working order, they had a good amount
of wheat, three very comfortable Relief
Society meeting houses; they had recently
undertaken the mothers work, had not
visited much during the winter, but in-
tended to now the spring had come.
	Counselor Ellen Thueson of Sevier
Stake, was very happy to be in our midst.
she felt paid for coming, just to hear the
opening hymn, it was so beautiful; in 
their stake they visited all around once a
year; she told us of the financial condi-
tion, and how much wheat they had gath-
ered last fall, felt they had made quite a
success of the mothers’ work, thought the
sisters were doing the very best they
could in all directions.
	President B. W. Smith addressed the
sisters for a few minutes, referring to her
desire to know of the mothers’ work;


[Column 1]
said she was glad it had been mentioned,
she was anxious it should be carried
on right, under the direction of the presi-
dent of the society and not make it a
separate affair.
	President Bathsheba B. Grundy of
Wayne Stake appreciated the privilege
of being present, she had a hard trip to
reach here, but felt repaid already with
what she had heard; felt in Wayne Stake
there was a good band of noble sisters
working in unison; they had mothers’
work in testimony meetings, we have
four Relief Society halls and five granar-
ies, we are doing our best to store grain,
hoped to be able to do her duty in the
position to which she had been called.
	Sister Hannah H. Romney, from Dub-
lan, Mexico, reported conditions in that
country, felt the people were prosper-
ous and progressing, the mothers’ work
was getting along very nicely in the Re-
lief Society, she thought the elder sisters
should encourage the young women to
come to these meetings; their teachers
down there never fail to visit all around
once a month, and carry a very good
spirit into the homes.
	Woodruff Stake was reported by Pearl
M. Brough, secretary, she felt proud to
represent the stake, scattered over six
hundred miles, and no railroad, it was
hard to visit, but always enjoyable; she
told of the financial condition and said
they had expended a great deal to help
the sufferers in mine explosions and other
accidents. Mothers’ work was doing
well in that stake, her report was quite
interesting.
	President Eliza J. Dixon of Nebo Stake
spoke of conditions in their locality being
different to many others, as a part of the
stake was in mining districts, and not
agriculture like those reported, consequent-
ly raised no grain, had some cash to buy
wheat with, and in the past some wheat
had been disposed of to build good gran-
naries; “there are nine granaries in our
stake and four Relief Society halls, we
visit three times a year, in every ward
we hold quarterly conferences in differ-
ent parts of the stake; have very good
officer’s meetings, once a month; our
Society meetings are held twice a month,
we are doing all we can for advancement,
studying theology and also have mothers’
work in the testimony meetings; we are
getting more new members in some of
the wards the young sisters are taking
an active part.”
	Secretary pro tem, Sister A. W. Can-
non, read a letter from the First Presi-
dency about the storing of grain by the
sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke a
few minutes, she felt more than pleased
to see the house so well filled, it showed
that the Relief Society was growing, she
had been a member of the Society since
1843, it was not always so large as it is
now, she believed all the sisters of the
Relief Society were doing a good work,
we all feel at times that we cannot get
around, but she thought we ought to do
all we could for those who are cast down,
we feel happy when we do these works of
charity, this was the Savior’s teaching,
and we will be blest in doing this good
work, there is a blessing that follows, “I
have many times gone into homes where
things were not pleasant, but when I left
I felt there was a good spirit there, it was
the Spirit of the Lord that came with

[Column 2]
the humble effort made to do good to
those in need of encouragement. I can-
not go among the people as much as I
desire to, because there is not time
enough, but I am glad to do what I can,
and thankful to be here today, and I
hope we will all be able to go home
safely, let us do all we can, it cannot be
too much, there is so much to be done,
let us above all love one another, and
love our neighbors, and we will be blest
if we strive to do these things.”
	Summit Stake reported by the Presi-
dent, Celestia Y. Pack, who was glad to
be in this large assembly of Saints, her
stake was quite a large one, some of the
branches were in mining camps, they all
held meetings uniform; sewing and testi-
mony, also Stake board and officers’
meetings once a month, we hold these in
different parts of the Stake, in connection
with the Priesthood meetings; we have
six granaries in our Stake, and a large
amount of real estate, we visit all around
once a year, our board visits once a
month, our missionaries visit from one
ward to another once a month, one con-
ference during the year where we have
visitors from the General Board. We
have enjoyed the mothers work, have
had lectures that might be read any-
where, we have brought some young sis-
ters in through the mothers’ work.
	President B. W. Smith adjourned the
Conference until 2 p. m. and announced
an evening session at 7:30, congregation
standing sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing,” and the benediction was given
by President Emma S. Woodruff.

	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President B. W. Smith presiding. Prof.
Thomas and members of the Temple
choir furnished the music, congregation
joined them in singing “O, say what is
truth, etc. Prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Penrose. The Temple quartette rendered
very beautifully, “Pray, sweet to my
soul.” President B. W. Smith was grati-
fied to see such a grand audience, she
had always been taught that the Relief
Society was the grandest auxiliary organ-
ization in the Church, and believed it,
thought we were doing pretty well as a
society, and expressed her belief in union
and love among the sisters; if there is any
feeling, ask forgiveness, and if there is a
proper spirit manifest it will do good. We
must try to live our religion and do all
the good we can, both for the living, the
dying and the dead. I don’t believe in
long speeches, and there are many here
to speak, and some have come from very
long distances and there is not much
time; the reports are to be limited to a
few minutes, I pray the Lord to bless all
this congregation and I bless you for
coming and may we have a good time
this afternoon, and the Spirit of the Lord
be with us.
	President Andrew Kimball from St.
Joseph Stake, reported the Relief Soci-
ety of that Stake in the absence of
President Elizabeth Layton, he spoke
very highly of Sister Layton and her
Counselors, as being united and diligent
in their work for the good of the sisters,
they have the opportunity of holding a
Conference every Priesthood day. They
have two Conferences, in June and De-
cember, and they do appreciate the visits
of the sisters from here very much. In
the wards the organizations are well

[Column 3]
posted and are the greatest helps to the
Bishops; they are not able to store wheat
in that warm climate, the weevils get into
it right away; the sisters have been great
benefactors to the community by loaning
the grain to the farmers, and thousands
of bushels of grain have been raised by
means of their kindness in lending the
grain for seed. Some time ago, during
the Spanish war, some of the boys were
not well provided for, and were getting
scurvy through lack of proper food. I
was written to, to know if the Relief Soci-
ety could help them, and our Relief Soci-
ety in Arizona fitted up a great many
boxes of bedding and good food and also
put in some money and we forwarded it
to the proper authorities to be distributed
to them, and much suffering was saved
through their charitable efforts at that
time. President Kimball said much in
praise of the Society in that locality and his
words were admirably suited to the occa-
sion.
	President Mary E. Schofield spoke of
Union Stake, where she presides, with
considerable pride and good feeling, felt
as it was a young Stake, the activity of
the sisters was deserving of recognition.
She and her associates visit in the valley
twice a year, and those branches that are
farther away, once a year. We have
some wheat and some money to buy
more, but have no granary as yet; we are
endeavoring to do the best we can in
taking care of it. We are doing well in
mothers’ work, using the outline formu-
lated by Union Stake. The Stake is
building a large tabernacle and some of
the wards are helping in this, we have but
few poor, but have assisted a number who
are helped by the Stake Presidency.
	President Isabelle E. Robinson of Mil-
lard Stake was pleased to mingle her
voice with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety, this grand organization, she had ad-
vocated a good fellowship meeting, felt
that would be a good place to drop every
enemity and get into harmony with one
another. Sister Robinson spoke of the
temporal condition of the Society, but
mentioned also the mothers’ work and
the Book of Mormon study; they have
five halls for meeting purposes, and five
granaries.
	Cassia Stake reported by Counselor
Alice Sessions; thought all the branches
were doing fairly well, of the ten wards
nearly all had granaries, a good attend-
ance of members at the Conferences.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was introduced
to speak upon Utah goods, said she had
taken hold of this movement to get home
manufactured goods upon the market,
stated that our market was flooded with
imported goods. After speaking earnest-
ly for two or three minutes on the subject
Sister Alder announced a meeting to be
held in Barratt Hall at the close of the
afternoon meeting and invited all present
to attend and hear this matter fully dis-
cussed upon its merits.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Clara B. Colby recently completed
a trip in behalf of the suffrage amend-
ment that covered twenty-four days in
eastern Oregon. She addressed twenty-
two meetings, rode eight hundred miles
by rail and two hundred by stage, visited
mining towns, distributed literature and
made friends and converts wherever she
went.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	  MOTHERS’ WORK
	SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
			    1
			Prayer.
“Prayer is the simplest form of speech
	That infant lips can try;
Prayer the sublimest strains that reach
	The majesty on high.”
	(a) Teach children to pray as soon as
they are old enough to talk. Mat. 7: 7—
8.; Doc. & Cov. sec. 103: 36.
				2.
			Obedience.
	(a) Necessity of obedience.
	(b) Blessings that attend obedient peo-
ple. I Nephi 3: 6, 7; 4: 24.
	(c) Sorrows that attend the disobedient.
I Samuel 15: 22; Improvement Era vol. 5,
page 410.
	(d) Willing obedience the most accept-
able to our Heavenly Father. 
				3
			Character.
	“Dare to have a character of thine
own, and let it be an honor to thy name.”
	(a) Choose good companions and read
good books.
	(b) Guard our thoughts as well as
words and actions.
	(c) Have pure desires as well as noble
aims.
	(d) “There is no excellence without
labor.”
	(e) “The basis of intellectual knowledge
is to know, the basis of moral cul-
ture is the desire to do right.”
	“How long we live, not years but ac-
tions tell.”
			    4
		  Mothers’ Talk.
	(a) Mothers should have the confidence
of their children.
	(b) Children should be taught the sa-
credness of life’s mission.
	(c) Self sacrifice.
	(d) Importance of cleanliness.
	(e) Plenty of sleep and pure air neces-
sary.
	(f) Good seeds bring forth good fruits.
	(g) Anything worth doing is worth do-
ing well.
	 “So close is glory to our dust,
		So near is God to man,
	When duty whispers low, ‘Thou must,”
		The youth replies, “I can.”
			    5
		    Associates.
	“An author is known by his writings, a
mother by her daughter, a fool by his
words, and all men by their companions.’’
	(a( We are creatures of imitation.
	(b) Better be alone than in bad com-
pany.
	(c) More of our education is received
by example than by precept. I Cor. 5:
9—13.
			    6
			Idleness.
    “Defer not till tomorrow to be wise.
    Tomorrow’s sun may never rise.”

[Column 2]
	(a) The idler shall not eat the bread of
the laborer. Doc. & Cov. sec. 42: 42.
	(b) No place in the Church for the
idler. Doc. & Cov. 75: 28, 29.
	(c) Teach young children how to work.
Doc. & Cov. sec. 68: 30, 31.
	(d) The idler shall suffer hunger. Prov.
19: 15.
	Committee—Adeline H. Savage, Mary
A. Gardner, Sarah Eagar.
		TOOELE STAKE.
			Lecture 1.
	    Our Boys and Our Girls.
	(a)	What shall they be taught and who
shall teach it.
	(b) Ignorance is not innocence.
	(c) The results of foolish modesty.
	(d) At what age should a boy or girl be
ready to share father’s and mother’s
work?
	(e) What would be the effect upon the
boy or girl, morally, physically and men-
tally by being allowed to go into society
too young?
	(f) How to retain the confidence of the
boy or girl as they grow up to manhood
and womanhood.
	(g) Parents should look well to the
company their boys and girls keep, for
therein lies the key to their success or
failure.
			Lecture 2.
		Purity of Thought.
	(a) From the abundance of the heart
the mouth speaketh.
	(b) Are not our minds and characters
made in a great measure by our thoughts.
	(c) Encourage pure conversation in the
home.
	(d) What is the result of impure con-
versation among our boys and girls.
	(e) To have pure thoughts, keep mind
employed in pure studies.
	(f) Can the Spirit of God dwell with
with those who encourage impure
thoughts and conversations?
			Lecture 3.
		Rights of Children.
	(a) We must not only be ready to talk
to and advise children, but also be ready
to listen while they talk.
	(b) The talk we have now with our
children truly “heart to heart” talk will
help them as the years go by to decide
for right and truth.
	(c) Children’s rights should not inter-
fere with the rights of others, and the
sooner they learn that most important
lesson, the better parents and citizens
will they in turn become.
	(d) One fault of parents is, that they
too often exact blind obedience from
their children.
	(e) A boy or girl in knowing the law
and obeying it, becomes a free moral
agent whom even God would not restrict.
	(f) Should we not respect the rights of
our children in public gatherings, that
when they arrive early and get a good
seat, should they be crowded out to make
room for some one who arrives there
late?
	(This might be modified.)
			Lecture 4.
		Partiality in the Home.
	(a) A simple hour of justice is worth
several years of prayer. 

[Column 3]
	(b) Justice knows no law but equity. 
	(c) No mother should ever speak in
her children’s presence of the ‘‘awkward
age,” thereby increasing the self-con-
sciousness of that period.
	(d) Necessity of parents being impar-
tial in the family circle.
	(e) Many children become discouraged
and fall by the wayside because their pa-
rents are manifestly partial in the be-
stowal of their love and encouragement.
	(f) God help our parents to all live aright,
	And may our homes all love and
		truth unfold,
	(g) Since life for us no loftier aim can
	hold
       Than leading little children to the
	right.
			Lecture 5.
		    Moral Training.
	(a) The object of moral and religious
training isto enable the child to recognize
the divine laws and learn to obey them.
	(b) Intellectual and moral training re-
quire personal and individual effort on
the part of each mother, which she often
fails to meet.
	(c) Be your children’s companion
yourself.
	(d) A truly religious person will be a
truly moral person.
	(e) The mother is the child’s first
teacher, and must teach her children
daily lessons in morality, patience, indus-
try and truthfulness.
	(f) Fortunate are the children whose
training and environments are such as to
establish habits of all the virtues. We
are trained in habits of morality, rever-
ence. honesty and courtesy,
	(h) The children of today are the so-
ciety, the church, and the nation of to-
morrow.
			Lecture 6.
			 Loyalty.
	(a) What is more beautiful than loyal-
ty in the home, where parents and chil-
dren enjoy each other’s society.
	(b) Parents must work,together and in
perfect harmony if true loyalty is to be
established in the home.
	(c) How can we create an atmosphere
of love and kindness in our home that
will be felt by all.
	(d) The necessity of children being
loyal to their parents and each other.
	(e) Honoring the priesthood of God
and those in authority over them.
	(f) The lives of our prophets and other
great men are examples of loyalty in
every sense of the word.
	(g) This above all to thine self be true,
thou canst not then be false to any one.
	Alice R. Woolley, President; Rose
Hammond and Maggie Anderson, Coun-
selors; Mary E. Halladay, Secretary.


Madame Curie, the discoverer with her
husband of radium, has been appointed
to the chair of the new professorship in
the Sorbonne, Paris, founded for her
husband. The minister of public in-
struction has ratified the choice of the
faculty, and “congratulates himself on
being the first Democratic minister of ed-
ucation to appoint a woman to what is,
in some ways, the most distinguished
chair in the Sorbonne.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in R. S. Hall,
Mesa, March 1, 1906, President Me-
lissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by the
usual exercises.
	Prest. Hunsaker made opening remarks,
felt pleased to see such a good attend-
ance.
	Reports were given from Mesa, Alma
and Pine wards. Much charity in dona-
tions, helping the poor, the sick, and those
who need comfort and consolation were
given in the last quarter. Mothers’ work;
Doctrine and Covenants lectures were
given in each testimony meeting; teach-
ers were punctual as a rule. The holding
of officers’ meetings had met with approv-
al; good instructions were given. The
Relief Society sisters were likened as
minute men to be ready aud willing when
duty calls. This organization was given
through revelation to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, this being the first organization
for women. They were to be minister-
ing angels to the poor, the sick and those
who were bowed down with grief, and in
preparing our loved ones for burial.
	Timely instructions were given by the
R.S. presidency and other sister speakers.
We should be careful not to speak slight-
ingly of another’s character, but have
charity for one another. That we should
be as wise as serpents and as harmless as
doves. The watchcare of our youth should
be considered.
	Closed by singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Benediction by
Counselor Isaac Dana.
			A. E. FULLER, Secretary.
		TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Toele Stake Relief So-
ciety Conference, held in Tooele City,
May 17, 1906. President Alice R.
Woolley presiding; present, President
Alice R. Wooley, Sisters Rose Hammond
Maggie Anderson, Bryan Nelson, and
Mary E. Halladay. Conference opened
with the usual exercises. President Alice
R. Woolley addressed the sisters; said
how sorry she was that our missionary
sisters were not present, she felt they
must have missed the train. She knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired when
he organized the Relief Society. The
sisters should study the Gospel. The
sisters do not aspire to be preachers but
they should be workers; we were sur-
rounded by the blessings and comforts of
life. Not one soul that belonged to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was destroyed in the San Francisco
disaster.
	Sister McBride reported the Tooele
Ward. Ten or fifteen new members had
joined the society; they had over 500
bushels of grain, and were going to build
a new granary. The teachers do good
work, they took for their subject, “Do-
mestic Science at Home,” in mother’s
work.

[Column 2]
	Sister Rose Hammond reported Grants-
ville; they had been blessed with means
to help the sick and poor; referred to the
sadness of Sister Tilly Johnson’s death,
they have about 600 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Shields reported Lake View.
They had enrolled most of the married
women in the ward, have 160 bushels of
wheat in the granary and quilts and ma-
terial to work with.
	Sister Louie Lee reported Mercur; they
help the poor, have plenty to work with.
Sisters Richards, Vowels and Lindburg,
rendered a musical selection.
	Sister Bryan spoke on the R. S. work;
said it was a rest to go to meeting. If
we do our duty we have no time to be-
long to any society outside of the Church.
We should not find fault with each other
we are all God’s children.
	Sister Nelson said we should meet to-
gether with pure hearts. Prayer makes
us acquainted with our Heavenly Father.
Our meetings are food for our bodies and
rest for our souls.
	Sister Maggie Anderson: “The Lord
will bless those who do the best they can
in his work. We should encourage the
presence of our guardian angels to guide
us aright. Sister Woolley said she had
heard from the sisters that were to have
attended the conference today, they had
missed the train. Conference then ad-
journed to meet at 2 p. m., after singing
and benediction.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Sister Alice R. Woolley presiding;
singing, prayer, and so forth. Sister Al-
strom reported the St. John society; said
they were united in their work.
	Sister Drouby reported Batesville.
	Sister Mary A. Atkins said it was pleas-
ant to meet with so many sisters; the
Lord would answer prayer if asked in the
right spirit. The sisters have a great res-
ponsibility on their shoulders. Sister
Bowen said she would rather listen than
speak. Prayed that no accident might
happen those that had come from a dis-
tance in returning home. Sister Lee said
it was a great pleasure to meet at Con-
ference, and a benefit to belong to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Naomi Gillette said we came
here for rest both bodily and spiritually.
We shall be judged by our Heavenly
Father and not by each other.
	Sister Drouby then sang a solo entitled
“The Garden of Eden.” Sister Spend-
love said her mother heard the Prophet
Joseph Smith speak and he spoke with
terrible power.
	A recitation was then given by Sister
Jones of Mercur, President Alice R.
Woolley then presented the names of the
General Board and the Stake Board and
they were unanimously sustained. Sister
Woolley said she was gratified with the
interest exhibited in the Relief Society
work, aad the great amount of work that
was being done. Knew that all the sis-
ters were not converted to the Relief

[Column 3]
Society work, we should act as mission
aries, She also spoke on the mother’s
work, and the blessings of motherhood.
We will be tested and tried; we should
be careful about speaking against the
authorities of the Church; we should
have the confidence of our children. In
unity there is strength.
	Singing, and after the benediction con-
ference closed until Oct. 11, 1906.
			MARY E. HALLADAY,
						Secretary.


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


UNDERGROUND WATERS OF THE VAL-
LEYS OF UTAH LAKE AND JORDAN
		RIVER, UTAH.
	A paper of value to every one interest-
ed in the use of underground waters in
the valleys of Utah Lake and Jordan
River has just been issued by the United
States Geological Survey as Water Supply
and Irrigation Paper No. 157. A brief
description of the topography, geology,
climatic conditions and surface streams is
followed by a discussion of the source,
distribution, manner of occurrence, and
quality of underground water. After the
general discussion the underground water
condition, in the most important areas are
described in detail.
	This report, which may be obtained on
application to the Director of the United
States Geological Survey, Washington,
D. C., contains also representative well
records and data concerning a large num-
ber of typical wells. These data include
diameter and depth of the well, height to
which water rises and the yield in gallons
per minute. The depths to water and the
areas in which flowing wells are obtained
are shown on the maps. A portion of the
paper of special interest to irrigators is
that devoted to the discussion of the
manner of determinining the yield of
wells. A table gives the yield in gallons
per minute of wells of various diameter
and size of jet.


The house of Lords has passed the
colonial marriages bill, which is to legal-
ize in the United Kingdom marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister legally contracted
anywhere in the British possessions. Such
marriages are legal in every country ex-
cept in the United Kingdom. For more
than fifty years efforts have been made
annually in Parliament to make marriage
with a deceased wifes sister legal, but
they have always been defeated in the
House of Commons or the House of
Lords.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
