Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY, 1906						No. 2


CONTENTS.
Passing Thoughts............ Annie Wells Cannon	9
General Relief Society Conference..................
	................................ Annie Wells Cannon	10
Mothers’ Work..................................................	11
International Council Notes, Mrs. I. H. Harper	11
In Memoriam....................................................	11
Relief Society Reports—Weber Stake..............	15
	Uintah Stake..............................................	16
Editorial—Ed. Notes—A Chronicle of the Re-
	lief Society—Visits of Missionaries.........	12
Poetry—The Story of the Cross........................
	........................................... Lydia D. Alder	9
	Edna’s Song—Maud Ellen Baggarley.......	11
	Pilgrims, 1847—Grace Ingles Frost..........	11


[Column 1]
THE STORY OF THE CROSS.
Across the Mediterranean
	We sail so far away,
To Palestine the ancient,
	In story famed alway.
’Twas there that Christ the lowly
	Once walked and talked with men.
My soul is filled with reverence
	To be where He was then.
I dwelt not there, when He did;
	His smile I could not see,
Nor in the fair Jerusalem
	Know of His agony;
But I believe His mission—
	That He was Christ—a God;
That He came down from heaven,
	With sinful mortals trod.
The Spirit beareth witness—
	’Twas sent when He was gone,
That all the world might know Him—
	This was the Christian dawn.
He was alone in suffering—
	Its depths not one could know,
Nor understand its meaning,
	Nor why His blood must flow.
The minds of men are dark’ned,
	They grope in shadows blind,
They hear the words He utters,
	His voice is wondrous kind,
Yet comes to them no meaning,
	His words are words alone—
That He the world would overcome,
	For all His blood atone.
And so He walked by Galilee,
	And teaches on the shore,
Or sails away in silence
	When they can bear no more;
Appeals to Him their weakness,
	And yearns His heart o’er them.
And with the Father He doth plead
	For loved Jerusalem,
He knows that He must suffer,
	That in Gethsemane
He will be left in darkness,
	And greatest agony,
The tenderness for others
	Is born ’mid pain and tears;
’Tis infinite, eternal,
	Outlasting all the years.
’Twas then, e’en prostrate lying,
	The flesh He overcame;
The apostles ’round are sleeping—
	He groans amid His pain.
The winepress He is treading,
	The wrath of God on Him;
Alone He is enduring
	The mighty weight of sin.

[Column 2]
The path is clear before Him,
	He must for sin atone;
His prayer for strength ascended,
	E’en to Jehovah’s throne.
Against the sky now dark’ning
	A cross, with arms stretched wide.
Hung on it, blood down pouring,
	The world’s Redeemer died.
His eyes, with death-film gath’ring,
	Cohorts of angels saw;
E’en then He might have weak’ned,
	And ne’er fulfilled the law.
But, no. to death He suffered,
	All men from death to free,
That they might be in glory
	With Him eternally.
This tragedy enacted
	Is writ in words of blood,
The storms of time defying,
	It has all things withstood.
E’en now it draws around it
	The gaze of all the world;
To pagan and to heathen
	Christ’s banner is unfurled.
Then His ascent to heaven—
	His witnesses were there—
And there, dense clouds enshrouding,
	He disappears in air,
They mutely stand around Him
	As He begins to rise;
In awe-imposing silence
	He mounts into the skies.
Then angels tell the story;
	“Ye men of Galilee.
	Why gaze ye up to heaven,
	Messiah still to see?
Lo, He likewise descending,
	Again to earth will come,
In majesty and splendor—
	Some time come to His own.”
This is the Mount of Olives,
	Earth pressed oft by His feet,
And these the scenes surrounding,
	The last His eyes to meet.
His earthly course is finished,
	The vict’ry He has won;
All things in earth and heaven
	Are subject to the Son.
Oh, is my heart, so burdened,
	Acceptable to Him?
Thou knowest, Lord, I love Thee,—
	Oh, purge me from all sin!
I would be Thine forever,
	I ne’er would stray from Thee—
I would be Thine forever,
	Forever with Thee be!
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
On the Mediterranean steamer “Orinoque,”
	April, 1905.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	RELIEF SOCIETY OUTING.—The four
Stakes, Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and
Ensign, joined in an outing to Saltair,
on the 19th instant, and the day was one
long to be remembered. As characteris-
tic of the Relief Society many of the
wards bought tickets and prepared lunch
for their poor and their aged, and the
long tables decorated with flowers and
laden with delicate and delicious viands,
looked very tempting indeed. Our gener-
al president, dear Aunt Bathsheba, Coun-
selor Ida S. Dusenberry, and general
treasurer Sister Williams, were guests of
the 17th Ward, while the general secre-
tary, Sister E. B. Wells, was the guest of
the 18th Ward.
	During the afternoon, and while the

[Column 2]
dinner was progressing, the Saltair band
came down stairs and played in the lower
pavilion. There was a splendid crowd,
and the day was most enjoyable. These
annual outings of the sisters are occa-
sions when without formality they can
join in one common pleasure, and the dif-
ferent societies become acquainted with
each other. We hope each year there
will be an increase in numbers and more
enjoyment.

	LECTURES.—Salt Lake has not been
considered a good lecture town. The
people throng to the play, light opera and
the resorts; are great lovers of music, but
rather taboo the lecturer. In a city
where so many fine literary clubs exist
and a splendid State University, not to
mention other fine institutions of learn-
ing are situated, it seems strange indeed
that Salt Lake should have such a name;
but recently through the lecture bureau
of the M. I. A. and the Summer School,
we are advancing somewhat in that re-
spect, and the people are beginning to
educate a taste for fine talk. Time was
when great speakers like Henry Ward
Beecher, Henry Watterson, General Lew
Wallace and others have given some of
their most brilliant talks to almost empty
houses, and even now we doubt if the
famed talkers of today chose the theatre
for a platform if the audience would be
what it should.
	An evening with some fine lecturer is
always profitable and pleasant, and the
work of the lecture bureau is certainly
commendable both from an entertaining
and educational standpoint.
	Recently Dr. Hughes, the famous ed-
ucator of Toronto, Canada, delighted the
teachers and friends of the University
Summer School with some of the finest
lectures we have heard, full of good
thought, and giving rich and fruitful ideas
to the parent and the teacher and delight-
ful for any one. The story telling lec-
tures of Miss Sara C. Bryant were also
amusing and helpful, and the public are
surely better by cultivating a taste for fine
lectures.

	CANYONS AND RESORTS.—In the midst
of summer, when the air in town is so
oppressive, and the sun heats the pave-
ments until the feet blister with walking
on them, and besides the year’s work
makes one long for change and rest, it is
delightful to be so situated that a short
ride by car or team can take one into the
most beautiful refreshing places.
	Near Salt Lake we have many such
places, and every day hundreds of people
avail themselves of them. Every after-
noon the cars are simply packed, carry-
ing the crowds laden with lunch boxes to
Saltair, the Lagoon and Calder’s Park,
while coach loads are frequently seen
seeking the more quiet resorts in the
canyons, Brighton, Wasatch, the Arm
Chair and City Creek. There is life and
health and pleasure lurking in all these
places, and they are a blessing to us if we


enjoy them properly, but there is also
danger if we allow an excess of pleasure.
Especially should the young folks guard
against anything that would lead to their
injury; for instance, excess in dancing,
very late trains and going off without
proper chaperonage. Loud laughter and
rudeness are too often evident among our
young people during their pleasure trips,
and while a pure enjoyment of life and
all good things is to be sought after, a
proper regard for the proprieties is to be
admired in every one.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
			(CONCLUDED.)

	Sister Hattie Blair of New York City
reported the Relief Seciety as not very
flourishing; some members have emigrat-
ed to Utah, and the members lived so
far apart it was difficult and expensive to
get together often. In Brooklyn the Re-
lief Society were studying Gospel books;
they have a number of young women in
that society, but as they are employed in
work they cannot always attend the
meetings; the sisters there would like to
have visitors from Utah sent to them.
	Sister Cannon, secretary pro tem., read
two communications from the First Presi-
dency, one treating on the storing of
grain and the other the “Word of Wis-
dom.”
	The Temple Quartette sang “Will there
be any stars in my crown?”
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. First thanked the singers for
their lovely music; said her heart was
filled with joy to see such a large audi-
ence; she only wanted to say a few words,
as she preferred to give the time to those
who had come a long distance; she had
been pleased with Brother Kimball’s re-
marks about the soldier boys; she never
saw the soldiers but what her heart ached,
and she knew it would always be a work
of credit to the Relief Society that they
had made this free donation to the sol-
diers in need.
	The speaker urged the parents to take
care of their daughters and keep them
safe from evil company, and not allow
them to associate with those not of our
faith, as marrying with them would only
bring unhappiness to their homes, and
the same with the boys; we want our
children to do right; prayed the Lord to
bless and help us to serve Him, and bless
our conference.
	President Martha Keeler of Utah Stake
appreciated the privilege of reporting the
stake; they had many good faithful sis-
ters; at the close of the past year they
had the misfortune of losing their presi-
dent, Sister Mary John; spoke of the pio-
neers, new buildings, new wards organ-
ized; said since the new officers had
been installed they had visited the entire
stake. In Provo City the Relief Society 
had four halls and four granaries. They
had over 4,000 bushels of wheat stored
and nearly four hundred dollars to buy
wheat; she felt the spirit of gathering
wheat was beautiful. They had taken
up the Mothers’ work systematically and
were also studying the Doctrine and
Covenants, and in that stake they were
especially interested in the nurse work.

[Column 2]
Sister Emma A. Empey, superinten-
dent of nurses, spoke very interestingly
of the nurse work, and alluded with a
great degree of pride to the class gradu-
ated last June under Dr. Roberts;
thought they were all doing good work.
Sister Empey explained that while she
was willing to do all she could for the
nurses here, as superintendent, yet she
felt that those who came from other lo-
calities had better go back and give the
benefit of their training to those who
sent them; she hoped the presidents
would encourage the girls to come to the
class this fall; she felt her own work was
confined to Salt Lake City; she knew of
no branch of Relief Society better than
nursing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts thought it
seemed strange that we could forget as
the years went by why things happened.
“It has seemed to be forgotten how the
nurse work originated. The scheme was
devised that the poor were to be taken as
good care of as the rich.” The Doctor
then explained the conditions, and said
the new class would begin next Septem-
ber the sisters would learn about it
through the EXPONENT; urged the sisters
to send intelligent women; felt the best
that could be done for them was to get
them good homes here while they were
pursuing their studies; she was interested
in that, and Sister Beatie had rendered
good assistance in this matter; she knew
it was a beautiful thing to know how to
care for our bodies, but she wanted to live
long enough to get out of the training of
nurses, for she realized that spiritual
training and Gospel study was higher; we
should not be content with what our pa-
rents know, but study more, be better
managers and have more time to study
our religion.
	President Rebecca Standring of Alpine
Stake was thankful to meet in Relief So-
ciety conference; her mind reverted to
1842, when there were only eighteen
members, and look at our great numbers
now; she had labored nearly forty-five
years in the Society; was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake in good condition;
officers hold meetings once a month, and
three or four wards hold conjoint meet-
ings once in three months, thus creating
a spirit of union; she felt satisfied they
were doing well in Mothers’ work; was
proud of the sisters in Alpine Stake.
	Notice was given of the evening meet-
ing at 7:30, and the Temple Quartette
sang, “Send us the sunlight.” dismissed
with prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Can-
non.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
				Secretary pro tem.


MOTHERS' WORK.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
Lecture I.—Honor to the aged.
	(a) Duties of children to parents. (b)
Social obligations to the old. (c) Grey
hairs a sermon.
Lecture 2.—Veneration for sacred
things.
	(a) Proper conduct in houses of wor-
ship. (b) Respect for the Sabbath, (c).
Veneration for sacred ordinances.
Lecture 3.—Purity of thought.


(a) Impure thoughts precede impure ac-
tions. (b) To the pure in heart all things
are pure. (c) How to gain pure thoughts
Lecture 4.—Sacredness of covenants.
	(a) Value of a promise. (b) When a
promise may be legitimately broken. (c)
What should be as sacred as a vow.
Lecture 5.—Pride.
	(a) Pride rightly controlled is one of
the grandest attributes of the human
mind. (b) True pride to be cultivated.
(c) False pride to be shunned. (d) True
pride the keynote of all noble aspira-
tions.
Lecture 6.—Cheerfulness.
	(a) Cheerfulness smooths the way of
life’s weary travels. (b) Brings sunshine
however dark the day. (c) How to make
home cheerful.
Lecture 7.—Kindness.
	(a) Power of kindness. (b) All crea-
tures susceptible to kindness. (c) Kind-
ness misapplied.
Lecture 8.—True nobility.
	(a) How to be truly noble. (b) The
Savior the grandest type of true nobility.
(c) Illustrate by sketch of noble life.
Lecture 9.—Slander.
	(a) Persons who willfully vilify their
neighbors are guilty of serious crime,
often causing the downfall of the innocent
and unsuspecting. (b) Define slander.
(c) How to avoid the habit of slander.
Lecture 10.—Idleness.
	(a) The root of all evil. (b) Cause and
effect. (c) How to prevent idleness.
Lecture 11.—Proper respect for others'
rights.
	(a) Application of the Golden Rule.
(b) Courtesy due from one to the other.
(b) In helping others to stand you insure
your own standing.
Lecture 12.—Evils to be avoided.
	(a) To sustain by uplifted hand the au-
thorities of the Church, stake, ward or as-
sociation, then use your influence against
them. (b) Unkind criticism. (c) Imputing
evil to actions not understood.
ELIZABETH C. PIGGOTT,
LOUISA A. COLE,
MARGARET MORGAN,
Committee.


Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt of Brooklyn
Borough, New York, who will be 106 years
old next month, is making her annual tour
of Connecticut. The trip is being made
in an automobile, which travels by easy
stages from one town to another. Hither-
to the annual tour which Mrs. Hunt in-
sists on making each year has been ac-
complished mostly by train.—Ex.


Relief Society reports already set but
left over for want of space are Liberty,
Alpine and Bear Lake Stakes, also
Woman’s Voice from Parowan, these will
be used in the August number, which will
soon be issued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDNA'S SONG.
MAUD ELLEN BAGGARLEY.
Night shadows have hidden the town,
And the lights of heaven shine;
While adown the river of dreams
Thou art drifting, child of mine;

That beautiful river of dreams
Floweth on through peaceful vales,
’Neath cloudless skies, where flowers bloom
And fairies tell wond'rous tales.

Dost find the country of thy dreams
More suited to baby feet?
Are they kind, the dream-folks there,
To little ones small and sweet?

Wilt thon return to mother soon,
O child, with thine eyes of blue?
Or is she a part of a dream,
And this world a dream-land, too?
Salt Lake City, June 12, 1906.


PILGRIMS, 1847.
GRACE INGLES FRO[-]T.

In the shadows of the Wasatch,
	Those mountains rugged and grand,
Standing like mighty sentineis
	Guarding the arid land,
A little band of pilgrims,
	With feet so weary and torn,
Stood gazing upon a salt sea waste
	At the dawn of a summer morn.

They had traveled many toilsome miles,
	This weary pilgrim band,
In search of an unsettled country,
	Some peaceful, better land.
They left on the cheerless prairies
	Their footprints of blood on the sod,
That they might have a haven of rest,
	With freedom to worship God.

And those unfaltering hearts courageous
	Gave thanks when their prophet and seer
Said, as he looked on the valley,
	“We will make our new home here;
In these vales where only the redmen dwell,
	We will build up Zion, and all will be well!”

Have his words proved true?
	Look at this valley’s fertile lands!
	What has become of the saline sands?
The wilderness smiling most fruitful has grown,
And the desert like unto the rose has become.

All praise give to God and that pilgrim band
Which left Illinois in search of a land
Where man may worship as God has decreed!
’Twas those faithful people who sowed the first
	seed,
The seed of religion as well as of grain,
And the ground for their sake so fruitful became,
That we are now reaping in after years
The fruits of those seeds sown in faith, love, and
	tears.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES.

MRS. IDA H. HARPER.
	There is no agency so effective for tak-
ing the bumptiousness out of the Ameri-
can woman as the International Council
of Women. This might apply to those of
other countries also, but their egotism is
not of so colossal proportions. It is a
good thing from every point of view for
the women of Australia, for intance, to
counsel for a week with those of Austria,
the women of Canada with those of Swe-
den. These four countries are ably rep-
resented here, as are New Zealand, Hun-
gary, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Nor-
way, Belgium, Holland and Great Britain.
Of the twenty countries belonging to the
Council, the only ones which are not rep-
resented are Denmark and Argentina.
	During the past year officers of the
Council have visited Greece, Turkey and

[Column 2]
Portugal with the object of assisting the
women there to form National Councils.
The wife of the Chinese ambassador to
Great Britain has presented the matter to
the Empress of China, and Lady Aberdeen,
international president, has asked the
Empress, through Sir Ernest Satow,
British ambassador to China, if some Chi-
nese lady residing in Europe may be ap-
pointed as vice-president for China. The
Empress has authorized the Chinese am-
bassador to call upon Lady Aberdeen and
inform her that this would be done. So
out of all this tangle of official red tape
there may emerge an affiliation of Chi-
nese women with the International Coun-
cil. Through the kindness of His Excel-
lency Viscount Hayashi and Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Stead, sojourning in Japan, the
question has been presented to many
prominent ladies in that country, and a
Japanese Council of Women is likely soon
to be added to the long list.
AMERICANS LET DOWN.
	In the beginning, American women hon-
estly believed that they were the ablest
in the world in every respect; that Ameri-
can men were the most just and liberal
in the world; that the United States
granted more freedom to women than any
country in the world. To the present
meeting came the women of Finland,
radiant with the victory of having gained
the full suffrage on exactly equal terms
with the men and the right to sit in Parlia-
ment, although their first Woman Suffrage
Association was formed less than two
years ago. The women of Australia and
New Zealand have had the full vote for
many years, and the former the right to
sit in Parliament. The women of Great
Britain. Sweden and Norway have every
form of the franchise except that for
members of Parliament, and the pros-
pects are encouraging for obtaining that
in the near future. Woman suffrage is a
government measure in Holland. It looks
as if the women of all the more progres-
sive countries would be enfranchised be-
fore those of the United States, and we
can no longer exploit the freedom and
liberality of our country at these interna-
tional meetings.
HONORS FROM THE CITY.
	During the Berlin congress, two years
ago, much prominence was given to the
recognition it received from the munici-
pality, the city appropriating 10,000
marks ($2,500) for a reception and ban-
quet to the delegates, and the entire body
of aldermen receiving them in state. This
action has been in a measure outdone by
the Municipal Council of Paris, which ap-
propriated 5,000 francs ($1,000) to be ex-
pended by the local committee of the
French National Council of Women on
this international meeting. The munici-
pal government did not stop with this, but
gave an afternoon reception for the dele-
gates in the magnificent Hotel de Ville-
After they were assembled in the hand-
some salon, the entire board of city fath-
ers came in and stood at attention before
them, while several of their number de-
livered addresses of welcome and sympa-
thetic encouragement. Then all were in-
vited to partake of the collation spread
on a long table in one end of the room
and served by immaculately-clad waiters.
	All the large theaters here, which are

[Column 3]
under national control, placed boxes at
the disposition of the council committee,
and delegates were entertained on Satur-
day evening with opera and drama which
lasted well into Sunday morning.
SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
	At the last intermational executive,
which was held in London, a resolution
was adopted that henceforth there should
be less in the way of social entertain-
ment, as this consumed time which ought
to be given to work. French hospitality,
however, has been superior to official re-
solves, and every day the delegates have
been entertained at beautifully appointed
luncheons of seven or eight courses.
Among the hostesses have been Madame
Jules Siegfried, wife of the cabinet min-
ster and Senator and Madame Alphen-
Salvador, founder of one of the large city
hospitals. A pleasant feature of these
luncheons has been that in every instance
the men of the family, husband and sons,
have been present to welcome the guests.
	The university women joined with the
Society for Political Equality—rather a
unique combination—to give an afternoon
tea for the delegates, at which many
clever speeches were made. All seemed
to be united in the demand for the higher
education and the right of suffrage. The
former is offered to women on the same
terms as men in the Sorbonne.
AMERICAN DELEGATES.
	Delegates to these meetings are limited
to the International Council officers, presi-
dents of National Councils and chairmen
of standing committees. Those from the
United States should have been Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, president of the Na-
tional Council; Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
chairman of the committee on suffrage
and the rights of citizenship, and Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, honorary president
and chairman of the committee on peace
and arbitration. All were unable to come,
and their proxies are Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and
the present writer. Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of Mary Jane Wheelan who de-
parted this life, September 23rd, 1905.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His in-
finite wisdom, called from our midst our beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary Jane Wheelan, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
and the faithful discharge of her duties in this
society makes it eminently befitting that we record
our appreciation of her, and feel comforted in the
assurance that, if worthy, we will meet and enjoy
her society again,
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God that His comforting
influen[-]e may be with them, and lead their hearts
to acknowledge His goodne[-]s even in their sore
bereavement.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Third ward Relief
Society that we mourn our loss and that we appre-
ciate the purity of her life and the worthy example
she has set us to follow. Be it further 
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased: be placed on
the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the EXPONENT and our local paper for publication.
		Gone to a peaceful, happy rest,
		Free from life’s grief and pain,
		Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
		Our loss is her infinite gain.
	Mary E. Abel, Ann E. Clayson, Carrie Daniels.
	in behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-		JULY, 1906


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith has ap-
pointed a committee some time since to
examine lectures that have been given by
the sisters in connection with the Moth-
ers’ work in order to have them published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, or to be ex-
changed in the Society, wherever wanted.
This idea is for helpfulness for each other
in the work, a sort of reciprocity. This
committee of ladies is a very competent
one, and will be conscientious in consid-
ering the manuscripts entrusted to it, and
consists of Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs.
Rebecca E. Little, Mrs. Elizabeth L. Wil-
cox. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas is chairman,
and those who have lectures to circulate
or to have considered with a view to
benefit others will please send the manu-
script to Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, No. 137
N. West Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	The Relief Society Nurses Class will
begin this year September 17th, and con-
tinue eight months. It will be taught at
the L. D. S. University by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts. There will also be a course
of lectures on practical cooking; mem-
bers of the nurse class will be allowed to
attend the lectures given at the L. D. S.
University on theology, hygiene and do-
mestic science, Charges for tuition, $10,
always in advance. Anyone desiring to
take the course and not wishing to sign
the contract for seventy-five days charity
work may do so on payment of $50
tuition fee. For further information ap-
ply to Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N. West Tem-
ple, or Dr. M. C. Roberts, 79 C. Street,
Salt Lake City. Circulars with full in-
formation are already issued to all Presi-
dents of the Relief Society. 
	The reception given by the Directors of
Calder’s Park to the First Presidency of
the Church on Friday, July 13th, and
which included Dr. James T. Hughes of
Toronto, Canada, the famous educator,
was indeed a “red letter day” for all
those who were honored with an invita-
tion on that happy occasion: The guests
felt themselves highly honored by the
feast at table, as well as the fine exercises
of music and song, and the graceful and
appropriate speeches from the platform
in the dancing hall. The day was perfect,
and when the tables were spread under
the beautiful trees in the park the real
feast began, for in addition to conversa-
tion there were some of the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful short talks, and a response from
the brilliant Dr. Hughes, such as one sel-
dom hears from strangers sojourning
among us, even when partaking of our
hospitality and the freedom of our beauti-
ful city. Dr. Hughes had listened atten-
tatively to President Joseph F. Smith,
who spoke from the platform in the af-
ternoon in his strong and forceful way of
our mountain home, and its settlement
and his crossing the plains in his boyhood
days, and the Dr. must have been deeply
touched by the ingenuousness of soul
that characterized the pathetic reminis-
censes. Apostle O. F. Whitney gave a 
little impromptu talk in his most genial
style on education in the early days, and 
altogether Dr. Hughes must have been
strongly impressed with the earnestness
and devotion of those with whom he
came in contact. The evening was
charming, the sunset on the water, its re-
flection on the lake and mountains be-
yond, the moonlight afterwards, and the
launches and skiffs, with the men and
women, young and old, who mingled in
the pleasures, the well kept grounds af-
forded, formed a delightful part of the
program of the day.


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
I.
	The spirit of fraternity, and of love for
one another began in the Latter-day
Saint Church in the days of Kirtland,
about the time the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his wife Emma came to that historic
town in February, 1831. This fact might
be demonstrated by many little incidents
that transpired in those early days among
the sisters, and possibly will be when a
complete history of the Society which
was afterwards organized is written. How-
ever, for the present, after pointing out
the spirit of sisterly love and charity that
existed prior to the establishment of this
grand and flourishing organization, it is
only the design of the writer to give a few
facts chronologically.
	The Relief Society proper was organized
by the Prophet Joseph Smith at a meet-
ing held in the Lodge Room, in Nauvoo,
Illinois, where the Saints settled after
leaving Missouri. The Temple was con-
templated and the people were preparing
to build. Some few sisters were very
anxious to assist in this great undertak-
ing in some systematic way, and talked
the matter over; finally the subject was
presented to President Joseph Smith,
who told them to meet together and he
would organize a society suitable for be-
nevolent purposes. The spirit of the
work was in the hearts of these good,
God fearing women, and those who knew
of the project came together as des-
ignated. There were only eighteen
sisters present and they nominated their
own officers and elected Emma Smith
President, Sarah M. Cleveland and Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Counselors; Eliza R.
Snow, Secretary; Phebe Ann Wheeler,
Assistant Secretary; and Elvira S. Coules,
Treasurer. The President was the wife
of the President Joseph Smith, and she
was designated “The Elect Lady” by
revelation given some years previous, and
was then ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures. Her nomination and election by
the sisters in that remarkable meeting of

[Column 2]
women, in that early time shows they
“builded better than they knew.” Looking
back it is wonderful to contemplate, yet we
who know so much of the Prophet Joseph
cannot but believe that he foresaw what
the future of this important Society would
be. Emma Smith’s was the first ordina-
tion to this calling of any woman, and
took place many years before any of the
churches extant had ordained women
ministers. (Their names are all given in
the minutes of that meeting.) Only one
of all that number is living at the present
time, our honored and beloved President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. How emi-
nently appropriate that she should occu-
py the position of “Elect Lady” in this
ripe hour of the Society when it has at-
tained such permanency, and celebrity
throughout the world. Identified with it
as she has been from the very commence-
ment, and through the entire sixty-four
years and more, promoting in every pos-
sible way its best interests; she stands to-
day a living witness of its growth and de-
velopment through all the various stages
of its onward progress, and has always
been foremost in any great enterprise for
the women of Zion.
	From the little handful of sisters who
met on that ever memorable day, March
17, 1842, in the next two years the increase
in membership reached nearly 2,000, and
the amount of charity work was some-
thing marvelous for those early times
when womens’ organizations were un-
known. Strange indeed that these young
sisters—for they were all under forty
years, except one—should have asked for
organization, and given the Society
a name, the Relief Society, that has re-
mained with it, acceptable to all those
who have come into the ranks since; even
with the newer ideas and modern ad-
vancement among womankind; doubtless
the name will be held in honorable repute
while there are works of charity to be
done for suffering humanity, and while
there is need of kindly ministrations.
	The Relief Society could not operate
as an organized body of workers when the
people were scattered hither and thither,
at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
but the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
brought away the records, which was an
important part of the Society, and served
a legitimate purpose in reopening the
work after the Saints had gathered here
in these mountain vales.
	President Brigham Young following in
the footsteps of his predecessor, called
upon the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
in the year 1855, to go forth and assist
the Bishops of the various wards, (that
had been organized under his direction)
in organizing a Relief Society in each
ward. He suggested that she take as
her assistant Sister Zina D. Young.
	Previous to this there had been some
temporary organizations and charitable
work had been done necessary to the con-
ditions of the people living where the na-
tive Indians came freely among them, it
was positively necessary to provide some
clothing for them, as well as food. Much
of this was done by the sisters in these
temporary associations. To be sure there
was much to be done for neighbors and
friends, but little to handle in the way of
means until a few years had elapsed;
then came the time when permanent soci-
eties were provided as mentioned, and
Sister Eliza R. and Sister Zina D. went


[Column 1]
from ward to ward helping the Bishops
to organize as indicated. From that time
onward the Society continued to grow
although there was no linking together
into one great whole until some years
later. In these earlier temporary socie-
ties she who stands at the head now was
diligent and faithful.
	It is not the purpose of this article to
tell the story, only to give a few pertinent
facts in relation to a society, that has
taken a very foremost place, not only as
an auxiliary in the Church of Latter-day
Saints, but it is known in the world outside,
among those not of our faith, as one of
the most flourishing organizations of wo-
men banded together for the higher ad-
vancement and permanent growth of all
that tends to the betterment and uplift-
ing of women; and of life itself in its de-
velopment religiously, socially, mentally,
morally, and physically.
	The Relief Society is not alone a charit-
able institution, but stands for all that
will tend to bless and elevate home life,
the community and the great common-
wealth; in short, the universal brother-
hood and sisterhood of the world. The
spirit of the work permeates the soul of
those actively engaged in the performance
of its duties and responsibilities. But it
is not the object of the writer to elabor-
ate, but to chronicle events in their order
as relating to the grand achievements so
far as it has progressed until the present
period of its status.
	As towns and settlements grew under
the direction of President Brigham Young,
and those associated with him in settling
and colonizing Utah, and the surrounding
territory, there was in every ward one of
these societies of sisters, each with its
perfect equipment of officers and teach-
ers, such helps as were necessary to take
care of all those who needed assistance
of whatever name or nature, and the
local society and the Bishop of the ward
and brethren associated with him worked
in unison and harmony in building up the
ward and looking after the public inter-
ests. Meetings were held by the sisters
regularly, weekly or semi-monthly accord-
ing to the conditions of the people and
the surroundings in the respective so-
ciety. Finally there came a time when
President Young thought best to solidify
the wards into stakes consisting of a num-
ber of ecclesiastical wards convenient to
group together, and appointed a president
and two counselors to preside over each
stake.
	This same theory was afterwards put in
practice with the organizations known in
each ward as the Relief Society, President
Brigham Young himself leading out in
this direction.
	On the 19th of July, 1877, Sister Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden City, who had
been for some time presiding over the
wards within the city, and had been suc-
cessful in promoting several kinds of
employment for women and girls, invited
President Brigham Young to come up
and attend a meeting in Ogden City, and
to bring with him those he wished to ac-
company him; meantime Sister Richards
had invited the sisters and brethren of
the county from far and near to attend
the meeting, little anticipating what
would transpire; President Young, his
Counselor, President D. H. Wells, and
some of the Apostles, Sister Eliza R.

[Column 2]
Snow and the writer of this article also
being of the number, went up on the
morning train, and were present when
President Brigham Young called and ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards to pre-
side over all the womens’ organizations in
Weber Stake of Zion. This was the com-
mencement of the consolidating of the
various branches of the Relief Society
into a stake organization.
	After some months President Jane S.
Richards chose her counselors, Mrs. Hat-
tie C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick,
and Mrs. Amelia M. Frodsham, secretary.
This constituted the Presidency of the
Relief Society of the Weber Stake.
	The second organization of a Relief
Society in a stake capacity was Salt Lake,
December 22, 1877. Notice having been
duly given President John Taylor and
some of the Apostles were invited to the
meeting, but were detained by business.
Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter and
Elder A. Milton Musser attended. Miss
Eliza R. Snow was elected chairman of
the meeting, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, secre-
tary, Miss Amy Adams assistant secretary.
The chairman explained the object of the
meeting and stated that President Brig-
ham Young had inaugurated a movement
previous to his death which she consid-
ered it proper to carry out. The meet-
ing was conducted strictly in accordance
with parliamentary usage. Mrs. Mary
Isabella Horne was elected President of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood, counselors,
and Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, secretary
Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox cor. secy.; at a
subsequent meeting Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith was elected treasurer.
	Very soon after, at a meeting purposely
called at Farmington, Thursday, April 3,
1878, the branches of the Relief Society
of Davis County were grouped together
in a stake organization, Mrs. Sarah I.
Holmes was elected pres[-]dent, Mrs. Mary
S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark counselors,
and Miss Minerva Richards secretary.
	On April 21, 1878, at the Nephi meet-
ing house (Sunday), President George
Teasdale officiating, Apostle Erastus
Snow and Jacob G. Bigler being present,
the Juab Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized. The officers were Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough president, Mrs. Elizabeth
Kendall and Mrs. Jane Picton counselors,
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth secretary, and Mrs.
Amy L. Bigler cor. sec’y.
	Box Elder Stake Relief Society was
organized at Brigham City, May 14, 1878
(Sunday). Bishop John Welch of that
place presented the names of the officers
who had been previously selected, they
were unanimously sustained: Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow president, Mrs. Susannah
P. Booth and Mrs. Mary Stark counsel-
ors, Mrs. Mary E. Snow secretary, and
Mrs. Emilia D. Madsen cor. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of Kanab Stake was
organized June 9, 1878 (Friday), by Pres-
ident L. John Nuttall. Officers—Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall president, Mrs. Harriet
D. Bunting and Lucy R. Johnson coun-
selors. Mrs. Mary E. Little secretary, Mrs
L. A. Johnson asst. secy., Mrs. E H. D.
Solomon treasurer.
	The Relief Society of Morgan Stake
was organized July 20, 1878 (Sunday),
President Willard G. Smith officiating.
Officers elected were Lydia Rich presi-
dent, Ann Fry and Martha Tonks coun-

[Column 3]
selors, H. Cordelia Smith secretary and
Sarah A. Rawle cor. sec’y.
	Tooele Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 20. 1878 (Friday), by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hunter president, Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg
and Mrs. Agnes Rich counselors, Mrs.
Mary A. House secretary and Mrs. Ann
Tate cor. sec’y.
	Utah Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 27, 1878 (Friday), by
President A. O. Smoot in Provo at the
meeting house. Sister Eliza R. Snow
was elected president of the meeting and
Albert Jones secretary. President Smoot
stated the object of the meeting and as-
sisted in the selection of the officers.
Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot president, Mrs.
Mary John and Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff
counselors, Mrs. Caroline Daniels secre-
tary, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball asst. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of St. George Stake
organized at St. George September 13,
1878 (Friday), by Apostle Erastus Snow.
Officers, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow presi-
dent, Mrs. Anna S. Iyins and Mrs. Han-
nah H. Romney counselors, Mrs. Eliza S.
Calkins secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth P.
Bentley asst. sec’y.
	Summit Stake Relief Society organiza-
tion was effected October 25, 1878 (Sat-
urday), Apostle Franklin D. Richards
and President W. W. Cluff officiating
The officers sustained were Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards president, Mrs. Ann Cluff
and Mrs. Mary W. Reynolds counselors,
Mrs. Jane S. Boydon secretary.
	Millard Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized January 28, 1879, by President Ira
N. Hinckley, at a mass meeting held at
Fillmore (Tuesday). The officers sus-
tained were Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt presi-
dent, Delilah K. Olsen and Sarah L. Par-
tridge counselors, D. K. Olson secretary.
	Bear Lake Stake Relief Society was
organized April 17, 1879 (Friday), at
Paris, Idaho, by Apostle Charles C. Rich.
Mrs. Julia P. Lindsay was elected presi-
dent, Mrs. Elizabeth Collings and Mrs,
Maria Rich counselors, Mrs. Alice M.
Rich secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Pug-
mire Assn’t secretary.
	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake
was organized at Manti May 19, 1879
(Tuesday), by President Canute Peter-
son, the officers having been previously
appointed at a stake conference. Mrs.
Mary Ann P. Hyde president, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Allred and Mrs. Annie U. Larsen
counselors, Mrs. Fanny Kofford cor.
secy.
	The Relief Society of Sevier Stake was
organized at Richfield June 16, 1879
(Tuesday), by President R. K. Thurber,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Isabella M.
Horne. Mrs. Elizabeth Bean president,
Mrs. Jane Spencer and Mrs. Thirza M.
Thurber counselors, Mrs. Catherine Hunt
secretary.
	Wasatch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized at Heber City September 3, 1879
(Wednesday), by President Abram Hatch,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells. The meeting was held in the
Heber City meeting house. Mrs. Emma
Brown was elected president, Mrs. Sarah
Alexander and Mrs. Mary Daybell coun-
selors, Mrs. Mary Bronson secretary.
	Parowan Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized September 28, 1879 (Sunday), at
the stake conference, President Henry
Lunt and Bishop Arthur officiating. Offic-
ers were Ellen W. Lunt president,


Mary Ann Lunt and Huldah D. Mitchell
counselors, Sarah Chatterley secretary
and Jane Mackelprag cor. secy.
    Panguitch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized February 3, 1880, Apostle Eras-
tus Snow and President James Henrie
officiating. Officers elected were Mrs.
Barbara Myers president, Mrs. Sarah P.
Crosby secretary.
    Beaver Stake Relief Society organized
by President John R. Murdock. Mrs.
Lucinda Hand president, Mrs. Flora S.
Shipp secretary. 
    June 28, 1880, the Eastern Arizona
Stake was organized, with Mrs. Willmirth
East president, Mrs. Emma S. Smith and
Lois R. Hunt counselors, Ida F. Hunt,
secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited by missionaries from the
General Board of the Relief Society in
July of this year: Pioneer, Friday, July
13, in Pioneer Stake Hall, S. L. City, Sis-
ters Julia P. M. Farnsworth and Elizabeth
S. Wilcox.
	Ensign Stake, Friday, July 13, Eleventh
Ward meeting house, S. L. City, Sisters
Alice M. Horne and Rebecca E. Little,
who is also counselor to the president of
that Stake.
	Wayne Stake, Saturday, July 14, at
Loa, Sisters Ellis R. Shipp, and Priscilla
Smith.
	Alpine, July 20, Pleasant Grove, at new
meeting house. General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and General Secretary
Emmeline B. Wells. 
	Nebo, Friday, July 20, at Payson,
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde, and Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	Blackfoot, Friday, July 20, at Basalt,
Idaho, Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sister Phebe Young Beatie;
	Teton, Thursday, July 26, at Driggs,
Idaho, Sister Priscilla Smith and Claire
Little Clawson.
	Davis, Friday, July 27, at Farmington
meeting house, General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith, General Secretary Em-
meline B. Wells and Sister Priscilla P.
Jennings.
	Fremont, Monday, July 30, Rexburg,
Idaho meeting house, Sisters Priscilla
Smith and Claire Little Clawson.
	San Juan, Thurscay, July 31, at Man-
cas, Colorada, meeting house, Counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister Annie
Wells Cannon.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	I send you a brief sketch of the life of Sister
Elizabeth Brook Fox, who passed away April 9,
1906:
	Sister Fox was born at Leeds, Yorkshire, Eng-
land, January 5, 1825; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
March, 1851. On April 23, 1861, she sailed for
America in the ship Underwriter; she arrived at
Florence June 2nd, and at Salt Lake City on Sep-
tember 12, 1861; she then moved to Lehi, where
she married Elder Charles W. Fox, February,
1862. In November she with her husband moved
to Franklin.
	June 2nd, 1874, Sister Fox was set apart as pres-
ident of the Franklin Relief Society and served
in that capacity for ten years.
	When the Oneida Stake was organizsd she was
set apart as Stake President of the Relief Society;
she labored faithfully in that office for 16 years,
when failing health compelled her resignation.
	During the time she was president she and her
counselors, Sisters Mary Hawks nnd Anne Hale,

[Column 2]
traveled many miles visiting the branches in the
stake which at that time was a very large one.
	She was of a mild and loving disposition; her life
was full of good works and her many virtues en-
deared her to all who knew her.
	She was a noble woman and and the fruits of
her labors can be seen throughout the Oneida
Stake.
	Sister Fox was the mother of t[-]o children, one
son and one daughter, 17 grandchildren and 10
great grandchi dr[-]n.
	The funeral services were held Wednesday,
April 11 under the direction of Counselor Thomas
Durant. The remains were conveyed in a hearse
from the residence of her daughter, Mrs. L. L.
Hatch, to the me[-]ting-house, followed by the
family and members of the Relief Society, under
the direction of the president, Sister Annie
Challis.
	Services opened by the choir singing, "O my
Father;" prayer by I. B. Nash singing, "O grave,
where is thy victory?" Speakers were L. H. Hatch
of Logan and H. E. Hatch; solo by I. B. Nash,
"Shall we meet beyond the river?" speakers were
C. Go sland, President Geo. C. Parkinson, S R,
Parkinson and Thomas Durrant, all addressed
words of consolation to the bereaved family. Ben-
ediction by E. Buckley,
	The floral offerings were numerous and beauti-
ful. The grave was dedicated by L. H. Hatch,
ANNIE CHALLIS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Franklin Relief Society,
	That we mourn the loss of our honored presi-
dent; but that we appreciate the goodness of her
life and the worthy example she has set us to fol-
low.
	Resolved that we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss, is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved that a copy of these reso-
lutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety and also published in the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.
PRESIDENT ANNIE CHALLIS.
Franklin, Idaho.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Mary I. Loveland of Deweyville,
Utah, who departed this life January 12th, 1906.
Deceased was born March 27th, 1861, she was the
daughter of Miles V. and Margaret M. Gardener,
and wife of Orson C Loveland. The deceased
was the mother of 10 children 9 girls and one boy.
	The officers of the Deweyville R. S. offer the
following resolutions:
	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and colabor-
er has by the hand of divine providence been re-
moved fr m our midst, and has, we feel confident-
ly assured gone to a better world, we her sisters,
who know of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express our tender
sympathy for the bereaved family and to acknowl-
edge her labors and ministrations of kindness as a
member of the R. S., and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word. There-
fore be it
	Resolved we do humbly testify that charity and
humility were leading traits of her character, and
that she was a loving wife and mother; and be
it,
	Resolved that we, the sisters of the society of
which she was a member so long, may follow her
noble example of diligence and faithfulness,
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our ward record, also to be printed in the Woman's
Exponent, and copies sent to the family.
	Hannah E. Loveland, President; Martha M.
Lish, Sec.; Bashua A. Chapman, Asst. Sec.
	In behalf of the Deweyville R. S.
SISTER ANNA M FOLKMAN.
	Sister Folkman passed away from this sphere of
action, March 26, 1906, after six weeks illne[-]s.
She was 84 years old the 5th of last February She
died as she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint;
beloved by all who knew her, surrounded by her
husband and family and kind and loving friends,
her last words being "Be united." Until her last
sickness she was able to do her own work and take
care of her husband.
	Sister Anna Maria Peterson, was the daughter
of Jence C. and Anna C. Peterson, was born Feb.
5, 1852, in the city of Rands, Jydlund, Denmark;
her mother died when she was five years old and
when she was 12 her father died, she had one
brother younger than herself; they were then left
to themselves. She passed through many hard
trials, and much severe sickness. She was mar-
ried to J. G. Folkman, in the spring of April 26,

[Column 3]
1848, was converted to the Gospel after having
heard it preached three times. She with her hus-
band was baptized Dec. 5, 1851. Emigrated in
1853, came to New Orleans in a sailing vessel, then
up the Mississippi to St. Louis She had cholera
twice and was healed each time by the power of
the priesthood. Came across the plains with ox
teams and walked the entire way, arrived in Salt
Lake City Oct. [-], 1854. Brother and Sister [-]olk-
man first settled in Lehi, from there went to Plain
City as pioneers, from there they were among the
first to sett[-]e in Soda Springs, Idaho, and were
among the first Saints to settle in Gentile Valley,
Idaho, in each of these places she held one or
more offices in the R. S. She was teacher and
treasurer in the R. S. when it was first organized
in the latter place, which off[-]e she held as long as
she was able. Not having any children of her
own she took a great interest in helping to raise
her husband's children. This dear sister passed
through much sickness, and all the horrors of the
crusade, which was very trying on her, had small
pox as late as 1900, by which she almost lost her
eyesight. Her faith was very great in the power
of healing by the priesthood, and she was ever
ready to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. After much suffering she passed peace-
fully away. Her complaint for the last few years
was chronic bronchitis, followed by dropsy.
	The funeral services of Sister Anna M. Folk-
man were held in the new meeting house at
Thatcher Ward, Idaho, March 29, 1906, Bishop
J T. Pond presiding. Singing by the choir,
"When first the glorious light of truth. prayer by
Brother Nelce. Graham. Singing, "Sister, tho[-]
wast mild and lovely." The speakers were Coun-
se[-]ors Geo. C. Peck, Patriarch W. Sterrit, John
B. Thatcher and Christopher Folkman, her Broth-
er-in-law, of Plain City, who gave a sketch of her
early life; they all bore testimony of her excellent
qualities and firm faith in the principles of the
Gospel of Christ, said her doors were ever open
and her table spread for the Saints and Elders and
she was ever on hand to assist the poor and her
motto was to "return good for evil." Spoke of the
glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful,
	Stake President L S. Pond heartily endorsed all
that had been said, spoke of her many good
qualities, said no one had ever done Sister Folk-
man a favor without getting threefold in return.
Spoke of what a glorious meeting it would be when
her husband would be permitted to meet her in the
mansion prepared for the faithful. Bishop J. T.
Pond made some very consoling remarks. Sing-
ing, "Farewell, all earthly honors." Benediction,
Counselor Geo. D. Anderson.
COM.
RENDINA OLSEN.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Rendina Olsen
who departed this life June 4, 1906.
	Sister Olsen was born in New Hedemarken, Nor-
way, September, 1848; embraced the Gospel in
her childhood and came to Utah in 1866. Sister
Olsen was an active member of the Relief So[-]i[-]ty.
having acted as one of the counselors to the presi-
dent of that association for a great many years,
and we realize that we have lost a dear friend and
efficient co-laborer, and while we mourn the loss
of her society here, we also realize that our loss
is her gain, and she has gone to meet her reward,
far from the storms of mortal life.
	The funeral was held in the Santaquin Ward
meetinghouse, which had been beautifully decor-
ated.
	The services were conducted by Bishop J. M.
Holladay. The speakers paid a beautiful tribute
to her life and character in their remarks, and the
choir sang appropriate hymns.
	The beautiful casket that held the mortal remains
of Sister Olsen was loaded with floral gifts. A
broken wheel was presented by the members of
the society. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of carriages. May
she rest in peace.
	Whereas, It has pleased the Great Creator to
take unto Himself our beloved sister who has been
a faithful worker in the Relief Society, never tir-
ing in well doing, a devoted friend to the poor and
a kind and loving wife and mother, therefore
be it
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Santaquin Re-
lief Society that we tender our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved family and relatives, and while
we mourn not as those who have no hope, yet we
realize that we have lost a faithful counselor who
died as she had lived, in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be put upon the
records of the society and be sent to the EXPO-
NENT for publication.
ALICE ELLSWORTH, Sec’y.
Santaquin, July 13, 1906.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LYDIA MAY LYMAN JONES.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Lydia
May Lyman Jones unanimously adopted at a
meeting of the Relief Society of Bluff Ward, held
June 7, 1906.
	Whereas, it has pleased God to summon from her
earthly abode to another and more exalted sphere
of usefulness, our dearly beloved sister, Lydia May
Lyman Jones, and
	Whereas, her life and labors in the ward and
Society have been such as to endear her to all her
friends and associates; therefore
	Resolved, That we her sisters of the Relief So-
ciety of the Bluff Ward, hereby express our ap-
preciation of her example, her labors, and her
faithfulness to every trust reposed in her, which
we have seen and enjoyed during the years of as-
sociation together.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family, and that we hereby place on
record our testimony of her exemplary life and
labors as a devoted wife and loving mother; that
we condole with the whole community, and with
the hosts of friends and relatives in other settle-
ments; that while we lament the death of our as-
sociate and co-laborer, we bow in humble submis-
sion to ‘Him who doeth all things well.’
	Resolved further, That a copy of these resolu-
tions be put upon the record of this society; that a
copy be sent to the bereaved family, and that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation. 

	A noble one from us has gone.
		A work on earth is done,
	The battle has been bravely fought—
		The victory is won.

	We mourn that now thy loving face
		No more on earth we see;
	By faithful work with heaven’s grace
		We’ll meet again with thee.

	Dear sister all thy toil is past,
		Eternal rest is thine.
	And though we mourn death’s bitter frost,
		We bow to will divine.

	Sleep sweet till resurrection dawn;
		No sorrow stir thy breast.
	To well earned comfort thou art gone—
		Rest! noble sister, rest!
						R. S. BLUFF.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
WEBER STAKE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion. held at Relief Society Hall in
Ogden City, Utah, on Thursday, June 14,
1906. Conference convened at ten
o’clock a. m., president Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Bishop Robert Mc-
quarrie. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Minutes of the March conference were
read and approved.
	President Richards made opening re-
marks; was pleased to meet again with
the sisters, and thankful that there were
so many present at such a busy time; felt
that those who were here were desirous
of being here, and that they were living
so as to deserye and secure the blessings
of the Lord.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was
thankful to be present; spoke of the
many times we have met throughout the
Church in this capacity, and of the many
brethren grown grey in this cause,and who
had been faithful through it all, it gave her
great joy to mingle with the Saints in
this capacity, and she felt that they were
all choice spirits, and considered it a great
blessing to have this privilege to live
and associate with them; her desire was
to have the loving confidence of her
brethren and sisters, and Sister Shurtliff
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.


[Column 2]
	President L. W. Shurtliff was pleased
to be present at this conference; was
pleased to listen to the minutes of the
last conference, and to notice the good
spirit there present and the good in-
structions which were given; “We should
seek the Lord, to know what was best to 
do and then do it to the best of our ability;
we often hear people say that they are
old, and that their work is done,” Felt
that he and Brother Middleton had grown
old in the work, but he considered that
their work had only begun, the example
and spirit of the sisters gave great en-
couragement to the brethren;felt that the
Lord would not desert this cause or his
people; had no fear of this congregation;
there are some who speak lightly of the
Lord’s anointed, but the daily labors of
the members of this organization and the
examples which they have set, have been
of greater benefit than anything else they
have done; although we may not be per-
fect, yet the Church organizations are,
because they lead up to the redemption of
mankind; was thankful that the Lord had
spared his life until this time; rejoiced to
know that his mother was with the first
organization of the Relief Society and a
member of it, and asked the Lord to
bless Sister Rfchards and all the officers
and members of these organizations.
	Sister Charlotte E. Driver was glad to
meet with the sisters again, as she had
been on a visit to the coast for some time
past, rejoiced to meet her dear friends
again; it had been very hard to leave all
that was so dear to her; desired the Lord
to direct her, so that she would do the
right thing, and was always proud to let
it be known that she was a member of
this Church; spoke of the San Francisco
disaster, and referred to the care taken of
the Saints there by the president of that
branch; and closed her remarks by ask-
ing the blessing of the Lord upon all.
	President Middleton was pleased to
have another opportunity of meeting with
the sisters in conference capacity; spoke
of his long association with President
Shurtliff and Brother Flygare, and of the
union which had always existed between
them, they had also associated with the
many Bishops of the stake in times past,
and with the various Church organizations
of the stake, and felt that such association
had been a great blessing to him; loved
to mingle with all because it helped to
strengthen him in his daily labors, felt
that we should develop, and not devote
too much time in the pursuit of wealth,
spoke of having called upon Sister Har-
riet Brown, and that he had found her
through all her afflictions to be the same
cheerful sister he had always known her
to be, was pleased to have Sister Driver
with us again, and felt proud to know
that we have such representatives out in
in the world.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie enjoyed the
conference this morning; “We are mak-
ing our own history, and we should not
live for temporal things alone; spoke of
the divorce evil of the day, that the usual
complaint was that of non-support, and
said that the women of the earlier days in
Utah had more cause for divorce than the
women of today who ask for a divorce,
for there were many times that the early
settlers did not know how to support their
families; felt that we should put our trust
in the Lord, and He will provide, knew
that the Lord had placed choice spirits on

[Column 3]
this earth to fill positions of trust, and
that this people would be known as a
people who could be trusted in all things.
	Sister Rees, of Pleasant View, had
been connected with this work ever since
she was seven years of age, and had al-
ways had a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and was very grateful for this
blessing; felt that we should teach our
children to love the truth and the princi-
ples of the Gospel, in order to become
good men and women in the Church.
	Sister Mary Taylor said she had been
in the Church all her days; was thankful
for the experience of going through the
persecutions and trials that she had en-
dured, because it gave her an experience
which she could not get in any other way;
had listened to the voice of the Prophet
Joseph, and loved to go to meeting and
hear him speak; said she could remember
the organization of the Relief Society,
and that she would like to spend the re-
mainder of her life in doing Temple work,
if circumstances permitted, because she
felt that the Temple was as near heaven
as we could get in this world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing re-
marks, and the conference adjourned un-
til 1:30 o’clock p. m. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by Elder
L. D. Rudd.

	At 1:30 o’clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.” Prayer by Bishop Al-
bern Allen Bingham. Singing, “Think
not when you gather to Zion.”
	Brother L. D. Rudd felt that the Saints
should be thankful for the testimonies
they have of the truth of the Gospel, and
that they are blessed above all other peo-
ples of the earth; rejoiced that he was a
Latter-day Saint, and bore his testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Frances B. Dance exhorted all to
live so that we would be prepared for the
coming of the Savior; and reported the
West Weber ward as a good and faithful
ward. Sister Sarah Hunter, Taylor
Ward, felt that by attending to our duties
it strengthens us to withstand all temp-
tations, and reported the Taylor Ward in
good condition. Sister Lucretia B. Farr
said that she had been a member of the
Relief Society all her life; was pleased to
be associated with such a band of sisters,
reported the Third Ward in good condi-
tion. Sister Rachel Gale, of Uintah, de-
sired the Spirit of the Lord to direct her
in what she said, bore a faithful testi-
mony reported the Uintah Ward in good
condition. Sister Johanna Agren, of Har-
risville, had a desire to lay up treasures
in heaven, so that she could reap a re-
ward therefor; reported the Harrisville
Ward as being in good condition. Sister
Margaret Jones, of Kanesville, was thank-
ful to be present and partake of the spirit
of the Lord; reported the Kanesville
Ward in a good condition. Sister Sarah
J. Shupe, of Eden, was thankful to have
been born and raised in the Church, re-
ported the Eden Ward as doing well.
Sister Mary M. Dye, of Riverdale, desired
to live in the manner and way of the
Lord, and reported the Riverdale Ward
as a faithful ward. Sister Agnes Herrick,
Second Ward, Ogden, said there was a
beautiful spirit present this morning; said
there was a good deal expected of us,
and that it was a delightful work; when


[Column 1]
she spent an afternoon in visiting her
ward she felt well paid in doing so; the
Lord had heard and answered her prayers;
reported her ward to be in a good condi-
tion. Sister Sarah A. Martin, Wilson,
said we should love and respect each
other, and have charity toward all, and
reported the Wilson Ward to be in good
condition.
	Bishop Albern Allen Bingham, of the
Middleton Ward, said it was interesting
to listen to the experiences of our moth-
ers; it seemed harder for the younger
generation to remain faithful on account
of the temptations surrounding them; was
thankful to have lived so that he could
hold the priesthood, and he knew that
there was power in it.
	Sister Mary J. Maycock, of Pleasant
View, hoped that we would put into
practice the good instructions which we
had received, and that we should pay
more attention to our spiritual than to our
temporal affairs; she felt that whenever
we meet in this building we enjoy a good
peaceful spirit; reported the Pleasant
View Ward as doing well. Sister Bing-
ham, Middleton Ward. said they have
their meetings every Thursday, they have
a glorious time. and reported the Middle-
ton Ward as doing a good work.
	Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.”
	Sister Richards extended an invitation
to those present to bear their testimonies,
and testimonies were borne by Sisters
Frances Wood, North Ogden, Sister Niel-
son, Huntsville. Sister Helena Lee, of
Far West, a Sister from Plain City,
Sister A. M. Bailey, Mound Fort, and
Sister Stove Thomas of Lynne.
	President Richards instructed the sis-
ters to hold their meetings once a week
if possible, as that was one of the pur-
poses of the organization; wished the sis-
ters to remember Sister Brown in their
prayers and in their meetings, and also
Sister Herrick, who years ago was one of
her counselors, but now resides in Logan;
prayed that we might always have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
	Sister Emily M. Shurtliff said that we
had heard so many good things that she
felt she could not add anything further,
that she had visited Sister Brown, and
her health was about the same, but that
she was always the same sweet woman,
wished the sisters to remember her in
their prayers and in their meetings;
prayed the Lord to bless all, that we may
remain loyal to the truth.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie felt that he
had been greatly blessed in listening to
the sisters, spoke of visiting a sister who
was compiling a genealogy. said it was a
pleasure to him on account of the faithful
testimony she bore; we should try to help
those who have temptations placed in
their way, for there are those who need
this care; felt grateful to know that testi-
monies were increasing among us, that
the young often bear a strong testimony;
asked the Lord to bless this organization,
and all like organizations, and Sister

[Column 2]
Richards with her counselors and all the
members of the Relief Society. Brother
Middleton said that he had enjoyed the
meeting very much. agreed with Sister
Richards in asking that the sisters hold
weekly meetings.
	Conference then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Up, awake ye de-
fenders of Zion.” Benediction by Presi-
dent Middleton.
	Ellen W. HAMER, Ass’t Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE. 
	Minutes of the 39th Conference of
Uintah Stake Relief Society, held at
Maeser June 1, 1906.
	There were on the stand Sisters Emma
Woodruff and Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board from Salt Lake City, all
the stake officers of Uintah Stake and a
good representation of ward officers, and
several brethren.
	President Sarah M. Colton presiding.
After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, roll call and minutes, Sister Sarah
M. Colton said she was well pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to have the
privilege of having with us some of the
sisters from Salt Lake City of the general
board; she could not report the stake be-
cause circumstances had been such that
the stake had not been visited the last
quarter.
	Sister Hannah Odakirk reported Vernal
Relief Society, Sister Phoebe Hislop
Maeser Relief Society, and Sister Annie
Casper, Naples Relief Society.
	Recitation trom Glines Relief Society,
by Arrila Haddock, entitled “The Price
of a Drink.”
	Sister Emma Woodruff, one of the gen-
eral board, was pleased to meet with the
sisters once more; the duty of the Relief
Society was not only to look after the
poor but the souls of men, especially our
sons and daughters; spoke of economy;
it is our duty each and every one to try
and take care of what the husband brings
in to the house; spoke of patience, and of
our missionary work; gave the sisters
counsel in regard to gathering grain.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams of the gen-
eral board was pleased to meet with the
sisters in this far-off stake, and to see that
they are trying to work for the upbuilding
of the kingdom of God; said we should
try and love our neighbors as ourselves,
and to make everybody happy around us,
especially our children; gave the secre-
taries and treasurers counsel in regard to
their duties; asked the blessings of the
Lord upon us all.
	Select reading from Naples Relief Soci-
ety by Sister Edna Powell entitled “Our
Times.”
	Sister Annie Young related some of her
experiences as a missionary on the Sa-
moan Islands.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton spoke of the la-
bors of the sisters at home, especially
those with large families, and of the tes-
timonies we had heard, and what a grand
mission a mother has; gave the sisters a

[Column 3]
good deal of advice in regard to their du-
ties.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, President Sarah M.
Colton presiding. We continued our ser-
vices with the usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett spoke at some
length on Relief Society work; especially
the teachers; she also spoke of mothers
qualifying themselves so they would be
able to teach their children the principles
of the gospel.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society, Sister Mary J. Searle re-
ported Mt. Dell Relief Society, Sister Lid-
dia Wall reported Jensen Relief Society.
	Song from Vernal Relief Society by
Sister Jane Bennion.
	Sister Emma Woodruff thought by the
numbers present and the distance the sis-
ters had to travel, it showed all were in-
terested in their labors; she spoke on Re-
lief Society work; we should be kind to
the stranger and teach them the gospel.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams thought we
had heard enough from Sister Bartlett
for food for thought without any more;
she repeated a parable of a woman who
had faith in the Lord; spoke of being kind
to the stranger and the danger of drink,
card playing and forming bad habits.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks; felt to thank all for their
attendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Glines Ward. Singing and
benediction.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Dr. Roberts’ Private Class in Obstetrics.

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence
her next private class in Obstetrics on Mon-
day, October 8th, 1906. Students attending
this class will also be allowed to attend the
Relief Society Nurse Class at the Latter-day
Saints’ University free of charge.
	The students successfully passing the ex-
aminations will not enly receive the Doctor
Instructor’s Certificate, but also one from the
Medical Board of Utah, which allows them to
practice Obstetrics the same as a physician.
		Lessons five days a week.
		Tuition fifty dollars.
		Books from six to eight dollars.
	For further information write to Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C. Street, Salt Lake
City; Utah.
	Telephone 2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

