Vol. 35						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MARCH, 1907.						No. 8


CONTENTS.
Beautiful Tribute to Motherhood..................
	.....................................Nephi L. Morris		57
Address......................................Mary Baxter		58
Extracts from Circular Letter of Lucie Ames
	Mead......................................................		59
Notes and News.............................................		59
Mrs. Howe and her Portrait............................	59
To the Relief Society Sisters... M. A. Winters	61
Mother’s Work:—Millard Stake.....................	61
	Big Horn Stake.......................................	62
In Memoriam..................................................	63
Relief Society Reports:—Alpine Stake..........	64
	Oneida Stake...........................................	64
Editorial:—The Women of Zion.....................	60
	The Stevens Genealogy...........................	60
	Susan and Mary Anthony........................	61
	Editorial Notes.........................................	61
Poetry:—Voices of the Wind...........................
	.................................Ellis Reynolds Ship	57
	The Fields Sublime..................................
	......................Bertha Anderson Kleinman	58
	The Ultimate Nation.................................	59


VOICES OF THE WIND.
Oh thou sighing, moaning breeze.
	Sweeping through the woody land,
Swaying grass, and graceful trees,
	Bending them with unseen hand;
Reaching e’en the ocean’s tide,
	Dashing billows mountain high,
Through the surge so deep and wide
	Waking strong convulsive sigh.

O’er the land thy might is seen,
	Desolation marks thy course,
Cities razed, and fields made clean,
	Swept from earth without remorse,
Now thy mournful monotone
	Wailing as some soul in pain,
Makes me feel a child alone
	Listening to thy solemn strain.

Whistling through the chimneys tall,
	Rattling doors, and creaking blinds,
Dashing madly ’gainst the wall, 
Oh remorseless fickle wind!
How you pierce my throbbing heart
	Wounding as with knife of steel,
Making all my pulses start
	When thy blasts I hear and feel.

In thy tempest-stricken tone
	Mournful voices greet my ears,
And my burthened spirit moans
	With the weight of by-gone years;
For my mother fond and dear
	Faded with the autumn days,
Falling with the leaves so sere
	’Neath the snow passed from our gaze.

Now while murmuring echoes ring
	’Round about my lonely bed,
Oh what memories they bring—
	Sweet beloved spirit fled!
Is there, can there ever be,
	Recompense for such a loss?
Wind again thou answerest me:
	“Where’s the crown without the cross?”
			ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP.


[Column 1]
BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO MOTHERHOOD
	Remarks by President Nephi L. Mor-
ris at the funeral services of Sister Cath-
erine Perkes McAllister in the 19th ward
Chapel, Sunday afternoon, Feb. 3rd,
1907. Stenographic report by Frank W.
Otterstrom.
	I feel, good friends, that we could well
tarry here. This is a sacred place: it is a
holy hour; it is a time when friends have
assembled in sympathy to express by their
mute presence the love and tender regard
they hold for a friend that has gone be-
fore. And here, lulled by the melody of

[Column 2]
sweet sounds, suffused in the fragrance
of flowers—which are God’s tender ex-
pressions to us—within each heart a
flower of feeling still more delicate and
beautiful. I feel that in such an assembly
we might well afford to tarry, and let the
soul of each go out and commune with its
neighbor soul. How beautiful it is to
contemplate the resignation and fortitude
exhibited by men and women of the most
exquisite sympathy, confronting one of
the greatest trials of life, the loss of a
friend, of wife, of mother. Instead of
weeping and wailing aloud as was done in
olden time, friends come together and
sing songs of praise and tenderness, and
bring floral offerings to express in the
most beautiful way possible the truest
feelings of their hearts. Grief has not
power to distress nor distract under the
spell of resignation and fortitude, which
is shown on occasions such as this. I say
how sweet it is to contemplate the holi-
ness and the sacredness of such a gather-
ing. It was not always so. When the
earth was young, before man had learned
to fortify himself against his dark foe,
these pangs of sorrow and grief were not
to be so assuaged. In those days—the
morning time of man’s experience—the
“grief-stricken and prostrated husband,
father or friend, would clothe his emaci-
pated form with a coarse garb called sack-
cloth, throw himself on the ground and
strew ashes over his body, and in the most
pitiful silence and agony would lie for
days. When the oppressive cloud of
gloom had lifted somewhat, the mourn-
ers would appear weeping and wailing,
and sorrow uncontrolled would be allowed
to surge like billows of the sea. The
splendid advancement that has been
made in respect to trials and sorrow, from
that day to this, may be appreciated on
this occasion, so beautiful, so impressive
is it. It betokens a fortitude that is God-
like.
	Man’s capacity is exhibited in his ability
to meet adversity. The human soul has
grown larger and stronger and deeper,
and its mental expanse more vast. Man
can now meet Death, and in his very
presence be resigned and steadfast in
soul. Who wrought this great miracle,
this splendid victory over human sym-
pathy and weakness, over human despair
and hopelessness? Only One in all the
world’s history proclaimed a knowledge
of the mysteries of life and death, and
over both he claimed to have absolute
power. “I have power to lay down my
life, and I have power to take it up
again.” The Scientist, Saint, and Proph-
et, who understood these great mysteries
which shroud our beginning and our end,
to Him is due the honor and praise for
this victory which has been wrought in
the human race.
	The poor Indian, when once his tapee
has been overshadowed by death, can no
longer dwell there. Taking up his wig-
wam, he moves to another place where he
may dwell and not be haunted by the evil
spirit of death, nor be disturbed by those

[Column 3]
dark fears which brood over the spot
where Death has gained a single victory.
To us the resting place of the dead is
sacred, even their presence is holy,
Thank God for such a readjustment of
the human soul to this ever constant
foe, or friend, as we may choose to deem
him.
	It is beautiful to contemplate the life of
our dear friend who has gone to her re-
ward. I sometimes feel in the presence of
a woman who has filled the full measure
of her being as a mother, and has done so
acceptably to those to whom she owed
such sacred obligations, that I stand in
the presence of the most sacred life con-
ceivable. In this life we all struggle for
the expression of that which is best in us;
and no matter where our life’s work may
be, in the shop, or on the farm, in the
marts of trade, or on the highway, in the
studio producing sculpture and paintings,
or in the seclusion of the study compos-
ing poetry, or music, our life is being ex-
pressed in every act, great or small. He
who lives life the best expresses himself
most nobly. What a beautiful expression
to life is given the mother—sublime mat-
rix of the world”—the mother of all liv-
ing. And our departed sister was a moth-
er of sons and daughters—priceless gifts
bestowed upon the world. How sublimely
is her life expressed! Need we inscribe
epitaphs to her honor? Need we speak
her praise or erect a monument to her
memory? She has reared her own monu-
ment; she has spoken her own praises bet-
ter than we can. She has written in
eternal fire and life’s blood her own epi-
taph. Behold her sons and daughters,
her true and devoted husband. These
are her kingdom; they are her life. She
dwells in them and they in her. This is
her eternal glory. We speak of the
hereafter; we are already in eternity. The
foundations of the kingdom laid by this
good woman and her noble and true com-
panion are eternal; they are not to be
dissolved, nor is the compact that holds
them together to be annulled. They are
already immortal ties.
	Of her life we might speak further, but
time restrains us. She was, like many
other women, a sufferer. It seems to me
that the apotheosis of woman is through
her suffering, and in her destined sorrows
she nearest approaches the Son of Man,
the greatest of sufferers. His life was the
sweetest that was ever lived, yet it was
the saddest life the world ever saw.
Jesus, the man of sorrows the God-man.
And He is approached, I say, more near-
ly by woman in her sufferings for others,
than by any one else. Why is it so? We
might well ask why is it that suffering
should form so great a part of our exper-
ience in this earthly existence. The
longer I live the more I am driven to the
conclusion that life is a great school of
experience, and we are sent here to learn
certain lessons. It is a compulsory sys-
tem of education, too, which is in vogue
here; there is no playing truant; each
must learn the lessons for himself. When


[Column 1]
they are learned they are not required of
us again.
	How exquisitely has God made physical
man. So sensitive, so delicately nerved
that his flesh fairly quivers with sensitive-
ness, feeling the pressure of the evening
breeze, the touch of a friend, the prick of
the thorn; susceptible almost to the un-
seen, is this physical man; and yet is he
thrown in the midst of the most cruel en-
vironments. In every hour of his life he
is threatened by foes from without
and foes from within. This man
so delicate, so sensitive, so exquisi-
tely made and vibrant with life and feel-
ing! Was it not intended that he suffer?
Pain is nature’s danger signal. We learn
by what we suffer, and when once the
child burns its little hand, it has learned
a law, and it does not need to be taught
again.
	Compared with the physical man, the
spiritual man is still more refined and deli-
cate,—so responsive, so sympathetic is
that part of man that a ohord of music
may cause the heart to well with emotion;
the smile of a friend may fill the soul with
delight, and even unseen influences are
palpable to the soul, so exquisite is its
nature. Yet God has sent that soul into
this world of woe, surrounded by a harsh
environment of evil and sin, encountered
in all their fury. And these dark powers
are permitted to make attack upon the
soul. And why? That we may gain ex-
perience and prove true to the best that
is in us. And here upon the battle ground
of mortality, that we might win glory,
honor, and eternal life. That is why we
are here; that is the philosophy of life,
as I am led to believe.
	We should assemble around the grave
and around the remains of one whose life
is closed, with these thoughts in our
minds. Here is a life that ends in a su-
perb victory; a woman who has been true
to every trust imposed upon her, true to
her own divine nature and origin—a
mother successful, a wife adored. And
as such we stand around her, as in the
presence of the holiest and the purest. May
God preserve her memory green to all of
us, and may his sustaining influence be
with those whom she leaves behind,
though it be but for a short time, as has
been said, when they shall be reunited—
not as angels, but as mother, as wife, as
friend. These ties of the family are
eternal; and they shall be renewed in
that holy relationship, just as soon as
those whom she leaves behind follow in
her path. And may God preserve them
that they may be true and faithful that
this reuniting may be a holy one, a happy
one. May peace be upon the congrega-
tion, and all who bear this sorrow. May
they be given strength to endure, and hope
and light to peer through the darkness, is
my prayer through Christ our suffering
Lord. Amen.

	Sister Catherine Perkes McAllister was
born in Liverpool, England, February 16,
1846. Came to Utah in 1861 with her
parents and family. Joined the Taber-
nacle choir in that year and continued a
member of that organization, and of the
Old Folks’ choir until her death. Be-
came the wife of Elder Duncan M. Mc-
Allister in i866. Was the mother of seven
children, two of whom died in infancy,
the others are living, respected members

[Column 2]
of the community, and there are five
grandchildren. The bereaved husband
and children are comforted by the assur-
ance the Gospel gives, that she has
earned a celestial reward.
	Poem by Sister Bertha Anderson Klein-
man. Lovingly inscribed to the memory
of her dear friend, Catherine Perkes Mc-
Callister.
		THE FIELDS SUBLIME.
“God’s acres”—what treasures are borne thro’
		your gates
	From the arms reaching out to restrain;
What rivers course silently into your gloom
	From the tears that fall daily like rain;
What mystery hangs over your harvest to be,
Yet how faint is the veil to the eyes that will see.
What promise and longings are melted to mist
	At your portals all shrouded and stern,
When the hearts that are silent pass into their
		rest,
	And the hearts that are aching return,
Yet pure and effulgent all day slanting down,
Is the light on the graves that consumes all your
		frown.
Blest fields with your seed undisturbed thro' the
		years,
	While the storms of men’s strife thunder near,
Where the voices of loved ones creep back to en-
		treat,
	And answer our longing—“Not here.”
Where over the echo of dust upon dust,
	Their anthem soars peacefully upward—“Trust,
		trust.”
Fair mounds closing over the best of our hopes,
	Your mystery can sound no despair,
In the brave souls ensheathed in the armor of
		faith,
	Who smile thro’ their tears gazing there;
For the firm hand that chastens is mighty to
		heal
And his touch is all love to the hands that will
		feel.
God’s favored are they who have treasures in
		bloom
	Mid the hush of “His acres” above,
For heaven were lonely that promised no joy
	Of reunion with those we have loved,
And deepest to wound but the strongest to save
Are the memories that cling to a precious one’s
		grave.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ADDRESS.
	BY SISTER MARY BAXTER.
	Beloved brethren, sisters and friends—
I take pleasure in assembling with you
today to celebrate the sixty-fifth anniver-
sary of the Relief Society organization
by our beloved and martyred prophet,
Joseph Smith, inspired by divine direc-
tion; and now at the present time there
are more than six hundred organizations,
and wherever there is a mission estab-
lished, there is also a Relief Society or-
ganized.
	Dear sisters, in looking back over the
pages of time we perceive that almost all
of those who were present on that mem-
orable event in Nauvoo in 1842, and many
others who have taken part in the organ-
ization since that time, have passed be-
hind the vail. It becomes us, dear sis-
ters, to pay a passing tribute to their
memories; they rest from their labor and
their reward will follow; they are only
gone before us to the spirit land—“Peace
to their ashes.”
	And again turning our thoughts back-
ward to the first organization, sixty-five

[Column 2]
years ago, let us ask the question how
much has been accomplished by the ladies
of these associations in these decades of
time? Who can tell? Echo answers—
who? What mind can comprehend, what
tongue can tell of the heights and depths
of the labors of love and the self-abnega-
tion of these sisters of charity, ministering
angels of mercy, responding to every call,
in every hour, in every season, comforting
the sick, smoothing the pillows of the
dying and gently closing their eyes in
death, and with loving hearts and gentle
hands preparing them for their last rest-
ing place, weeping with those who weep,
drying the mourner’s tears. Many of my
sisters before me today have earned the
righteous plaudit, “well done, good and
faithful” handmaid, “inasmuch as ye
have done it unto these, you have done
it unto me.” Sisters, you are not forgot-
ten—the angels are silent notes taking,
your names are recorded in the archives
of heaven.

	There are watchful eyes around us,
	That slumber not nor sleep,
	Who are never moved by envy,
	They a faithful record keep.

	Sixty-five years have passed—the fu-
ture is before us. Let us renew our dili-
gence, seek out the poor and the needy,
comfort the downcast, and raise the fall-
en; pass not by on the other side.

		“We ge our ways in earth alone,
	We hold oursalves too far from all our kind,
	Too often we are deaf to sigh and moan.
	Too often to the weak and helpless blind,
	Too often where distress and want abide,
	We turn and pass upon the other side.”

	Above all, my sisters, let us have char-
ty. “Charity suffereth long and is kind,
thinks no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity,
but rejoiceth in the truth.” My sisters,
there are volumes in these few words,and
in the practice of these virtues lies the
key to your success as officers and as
members of the Relief Society. Without
this gift we are void, our professions are
hollow, we are as the sounding brass and
the tinkling cymbal.  Charity is the love
of God. the magnetic influence of the
Holy Spirit that surpasseth all under-
standing; it is the voice of the Good
Shepherd—the sheep hear that voice and
love to follow it, even unto death, if nec-
essary. They rule the most who rule by
love.
	Sisters, do we realize the great and no-
ble calling unto which we are called; do
we understand the honor and privileges
that are bestowed upon us through the
Holy Spirit and everlasting priesthood of
God, called with a holy calling to be
the daughters and handmaids to labor in
the vineyard of our Father, even the
Eternal God. To feed the hungry, to
clothe the naked, to be eyes to the blind,
and strength to the aged and infirm, to
wash and anoint in faith believing in the
promises of the Lord, living near unto
Him at all times, that we may have the
influence of His Spirit to guide us in all
our actions.
	I know this day that we are thankful
or the Gospel revealed through our be-
loved prophet, Joseph. We are thankful
that we have been called to help to bring
to pass the redemption of the world,
and also the redemption of the dead,
Glory to God in the highest be given.
Amen.
	Relief Society, Goshen, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE ULTIMATE NATION.
One Babylon, by beauty tenanted,
	In pleasures palaces and walks of pride,
Like a great scarlet flower reared her head,
	Drank in the sun and laughed, and sinned and
		died.

Where Tyre and Sidon teemed with ships aload
	The wharves are idle and the waters lone;
And to the temple that was His abode
	In vain Jerusalem recalls her own.

Brooding the bygones from her sculptured seats,
	In living rock her mighty memories hewn,
Along the Nile, wonder of water streets,
	Old fertile Egypt is a stranger’s boon.

Mark Athens, breathed upon by breath of gods,
	With bards and sages to reveal her signs,
Leap like a flame above life’s iron clods.
	To fall in ashes upon vacant shrines.

And Rome, firm founded in a wide emprise:
	Her laws and legions, her imperial goal,
Avail not when her sometime honor dies,
	Smothered in shows that kill the mounting
		soul.

Such names of pride and power have been brought
		low,
	Lapsing alike into the cavernous years;
Out of the grayness of the long ago
	Their ghosts flit homeless and we guess their
		tears.

The destiny of nations! They arise,
	Have their heyday of triumph, and in turn
Sink upon silence, and the lidless eyes
	Of fate salute them from their final urn.

How splendid-sad the story! How the gust
	And pain and bliss of living transient seem!
Cities and pomps and glories shrunk to dust,
	And all that ancient opulence a dream.

Must a majestic rhythm of rise and fall
	Conquer the people once so proud on earth?
Does man but march in circles, after all,
	Playing his curious game of death and birth?

Or shall an ultimate nation, God’s own child,
	Arise and rule, nor ever conquered be;
Untouched of time because, all undefiled,
	She makes His ways her ways eternally?
		RICHARD BURTON, in January Century.


EXTRACTS FROM CIRCULAR LETTER
		OF LUCIE AMES MEAD.

	Dear Friends: The year 1907 promises
to be, one of the most important in the
world’s history. The Hague Conference,
which will probably be held in a few
months, will present an opportunity to
lessen the misery and waste of the world
such as all the charities of the earth com-
bined could not accomplish. Few have
yet awakened to the stupendous signific-
ance and far-reaching possibilities of the
recommendations for the subjects to be
brought before the Hague Conference,
made by the Interparliamentary Union
in the summer of 1906, at its meeting in
London. This body of statesmen from
the parliaments of the world recommend-
ed (1) the establishment of a periodic Ad-
visory World Congress, (2) the proportio-
nate limitation of armaments, (3) a gene-
ral arbitration treaty, (4) the protection
of private property at sea from capture in
time of war, (5) investigation by an im-
partial committee of difficulties between
nations, not otherwise settled, before hos-
tilities can be declared.
	If these recommendations were acccent-
ed by the Hague Conference and ratified
by the majority of the forty nations re-
presented in it, the machinery for the
world’s international business would be
ready, and the beginning of the end of
international war would be achieved. In
a few years the scope of arbitration would


be enlarged, international law would be
codified, and billions of dollars would be
saved for constructive purposes.
	It is of the utmost consequence that
the 80,000,000 Americans whose business
and, perhaps, whose lives are to be affect-
ed by these matters should not be dumb,
but should bring public sentiment to bear
on the State department, which is to be
the mouthpiece of the nation in this mat-
ter. I therefore recommend that indivi-
dually, and collectively, in all our organ-
izations, we should send brief letters to
Hon. Elihu Root, Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C., expressing the strong
desire that our government approve the
recommendations of the Interparliamen-
tary Union.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall presented the
plan of the Woman’s National Council for
a memorial to Miss Anthony in the form
of a bust.
	Mrs. Mary C. Gannett of Rochester
presented the plan for a memorial in the
form of a building for the women students
in the University of Rochester. She
moved the adoption of the following re-
solution:
	“That the N. A. W. S. A. welcomes
and approves the proposed memorial to
Susan B. Anthony, and hereby records
its endorsement of the plans of the An-
thony Memorial Association, and urges
the hearty co-operation of our members.”
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery and Mrs.
Florence Kelley seconded the motion.
Speeches against the resolution were
made by Miss Clay of Kentucky, Mrs.
Clark of Rochester and Mrs. Churchill of
California, speeches in favor by Mrs. Mc-
Lean of Ohio, Mrs. Avery, Mrs. Kelley,
Mrs. Monroe of Kansas, Mrs. Rainsford
of Rochester and Miss Sweeney of Pitts-
burgh, Pa. Miss Shaw called the vice-pre-
sident to the chair and explained the
friendly feeling that Miss Susan B. An-
thony had toward a memorial of this gen-
eral kind and the great interest that Miss
Mary S. Anthony took in this particular
plan. Miss Shaw recommended that the
last clause of the proposed resolution
should be changed before it was adopted,
as the N. A. W. S. A., while friendly to
the Rochester memorial, was going to
urge a special memorial of its own in the
form of a $100,000 fund for suffrage work.
Miss Clay urged that the last eight words
of the proposed resolution be left out.
Mrs. Gannett consented to leave them
out, and the resolution, thus amended,
was then carried unanimously. Mrs. Gan-
nett returned thanks in behalf of her as-
socation.						Ex.
	Miss Victorie de Maligny has recently
come from Paris to the United States to
lecture on French literature before the
Universities. She will be the first woman
that has had an engagement to lecture at
Yale.
	Congress, which appropriated millions
for battleships, cut down the appropria-
tion for playgrounds for the children of
Washington from $30,000 to $15,000, one-
half of what it was last year. If the moth-
ers and teachers of America had had a
vote for members of Congress, would not
Congressmen be likely to pay more regard
to the interests of the children?

[Column 2]
	The woman suffrage bill has again been
“talked out” in Parliament, and kept from
coming to a vote. The 21,000 women
who petitioned against it were few in
comparison with the 257,000 women who
had previously petitioned for it, but they
were enough to show that there are “An-
tis” in England as well as in America.
Their attitude recalls that of certain non-
conformist ministers who once petitioned
Parliament against abolishing the political
disabilities of dissenters. They preferred
to remain subject to their own political
disabilities rather than to see the Roman
Catholics relieved from theirs.
	The Maharani of Baroda was elected
president of the Ladies’ Conference which
lately met at Calcutta, a remarkable as-
sembly of 600 representative women from
all parts of India. The president, in her
address, remarked that the chief object of
the local ladies’ society in the Mahila
Samiti, was to unite Indian ladies of all
creeds, casts and races, just as the men
were drawing closer together in common
aims, aspirations and endeavors. She
said, “We shape the minds of our children
in infancy and boyhood. We can inspire
them with a legitimate pride in our past
history, and a love for our modern liter-
ture. The manhood and womanhood of
India are our handiwork; let us, mothers,
train them to the service of our country
wherever we may dwell, whatever be our
religious creed or our profession in life.”
It is encouraging to see that even in India
women are beginning to “get together”
and plan to serve their country.

MRS. HOWE AND HER PORTRAIT.
	“Mrs. Julia Ward Howe attended the
exhibition of Mr. Carnig Eksergian’s por-
traits, held recently in Boston, and made
the rounds of the rooms on the painter’s
arm, stopping a few moments before each
picture to comment upon it. Wearing a
dress of shimmering pale green silk, with
her white hair and vivid smile, as she
leaned on the arm of the slender, dark,
foreign artist, she made so charming a
picture that all the visitors turned from
the portraits to look at her, and many
sighed for a camera. Before her own
portrait, which represents her with her
arms full of Easter lilies, she made a long-
er pause, and people had a chance to ad-
mire the likeness. This is almost the only
picture of Mrs. Howe which represents
her with a smile on her face. In her
portraits her expression is always sorrow-
ful or stern. Her husband once upbraid-
ed her for this. He said, “You are the
jolliest woman I know, yet in your pho-
tographs you always look as if I had
dragged you through every torment!”
Mrs. Howe is now collecting the music
of which she has composed a good deal
during her life, and is going to publish a
book of her original songs. They are
great favorites with her children and
grandchildren.”
	Whereas in the second Hague Confer-
ence there will be offered the greatest
opportunity in human history to lessen
the burden of militarism: therefore.
	Resolved that we request the President
of the United States to approve the rec-
ommendations for the action of the ap-
proaching Hague Conference which were
presented by the Inter-Parliamentary
Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		MARCH, 1907


[Column 1]
		THE WOMEN OF ZION.
	The term women of Zion applies to the
sisters in the Church in the larger sense,
and is understood to mean all the women
of the Church, whether connected with
auxiliary organizations or not. It is the
opinion of the very best people in the
Church, that all the sisters should be
actively engaged so far as possible in one
or the other of the associations, that are
helpful in so many ways to women and
children, and we may truthfully say to
the family in all its relations to life. Par-
ticularly is the Relief Society helpful to
our women, as mothers in all their house-
hold duties. The work enters into every
field of usefulness, and we might add of
happiness.
	This society has been in the past very
lightly spoken of, and women who have
devoted their best energies to its estab-
lishment have been ridiculed and sneered
at, but that day is past among sensible
people, because the society and its work
is coming to be better comprehended.
The need of this organization is now very
widely known. It has become a power
for good not only in this land of liberty
and free institutions, but in other lands
afar off and it is growing in favor with
those good women who have received the
Gospel through the teachings of the
Elders, who proclaim it abroad, and
when these sisters are told that the
Prophet Joseph Smith established this
institution for women in his life time
through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,
they can indeed realize that it is some-
thing more than an ordinary association
of women for, benevolent purposes.
When one takes hold of the work in
earnest, then they begin to see more of
its actual benefits and educational ad-
vantages in and along many avenues of
activity, enterprise and development.
	Some of the people think it has been
slow in accomplishing the greater good
that might and ought to have been the
result of so much time and labor, during
all the sixty-five years since it was organ-
zed and that may be true in one sense,
but partly because only a few were really
converted to the idea of its being valu-
able, and again there were the years of
the exodus from Nauvoo, Illinois, (where
the Society was founded) and the jour-
neyings and the many hindrances of mak-
ing permanent homes herein these moun-
tain vales after the long and wearisome
travel over barren and desert lands, with

[Column 2]
all the incidental struggles of everyday
life, that pilgrims such as our people had
to pass through, however patient and
courageous and even ambitious the peo-
ple might be and were, as some of us can
truthfully testify. The wonder is not
that the sisters could not do more, but it
is, that they could do so much and en
dure.
	The Relief Society itself is already a
marvel to those who know what it has
done in its establishment permanently,
after the people had built up some homes,
and towns and settlements here and
there. With the difficulties to be en-
countered and overcome, the sisters, who
have been the promoters of this benevo-
lent work may well congratulate them-
selves on its progress, instead of being
discouraged, that more could not be done.
The officers of the Society and all its ac-
tive members may well be proud of the
success attained. Remember the sisters
are gathered from yarious countries, they
have had to adapt themselves to other
conditions than those they had been ac-
customed to in the lands from which they
came. There were many things to learn,
and looking over the matter carefully, we
must say the sisters have done remark-
ably well, and their labors are deserving
of commendation. There is never a call
made that they do not respond to it will-
ingly and gladly.
	Zion is growing rapidly and the Relief
Society must keep pace with its growth.
Therefore the need of being on the alert
to strengthen and uphold the hands of
those who carry the burden of the work,
whether in wards or stakes and encourage
all who will to come forward and assist
in making the Relief Society not only the
most genuinely useful organization, but
the most attractive. Let the sisters every-
where set forth in unmistakable terms
with eloquence and enthusiasm its bene-
fits and advantages, look upon the day of
meeting as a day of rejoicing and praise.
Sing the songs of Zion with the spirit and
understanding, and greet each other with
words of hope and cheer; make it a de-
lightful occasion, not one to tell of sor-
rows and hardships, but of the great bles-
sings vouchsafed to this people and the
glorious future of this goodly land, if the
people will keep the commandments of
our Father in heaven.
	There is certainly a magnificent future
for this Society all that the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith predicted in his teachings must
be fulfilled, and much more. The half
cannot be told of what it has already done
for the women of Zion in moral and spir-
tual uplifting, and with the more favor-
able conditions that continue to improve
daily, what may we not expect in the near
future from the superior advantages that
will certainly accrue as the natural se-
quence of events that must transpire in
the building up of temples of learning and
of the greatest institutions that must of
necessity be established in the day and
age, now at our very doors in order to
bring about the glory of Zion.
	These things must needs be accomplish-
ed and it will require energy and talent
of no common degree, and in all this even
the redemption of Zion, and the light and
glory of the many cities of the Saints,
woman will have her share of the mighty
work and the Relief Society will be one
of the preparatory stepping stones to the
ultimate triumph of the work of restora-

[Column 3]
tion. Let it not be considered of small
consequence, but make it so admirable
and excellent and withal so select, that all
the noble women of Zion will seek ad-
mittance thereto instead of having to be
urged to enter its ranks.


THE STEVENS GENEALOGY.
BY DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.
	Books of genealogical records are of
special interest to the Latter-day Saints
and the spirit that has inspired our breth-
ren and sisters more particularly, and also
the people of the world, to hunt up rec-
ords of ancestry, is in fulfillment of an-
cient prophecy, the very last words with
which the Old Testament closes its sa-
cred pages are from the prophet Malachi
on this very subject:
	“Behold I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great
and dreadful day of the Lord.
	“And he shall turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children, and the hearts of
the children to the fathers, lest I come
and smite the earth with a curse.”
	How significant this seems to all our
people, who are familiar with what has
transpired since the revelation to Joseph
Smith, who received direct communica-
tion concerning these things. Elijah the
prophet came and delivered to the
Prophet Joseph the message that has
gone forth, and the spirit of that message
is looking after our kindred that have
lived in times past, without whom those
who live now could not be made per-
fect. This work has grown to immense
proportions, and Sister Elvira Stevens is
one of those who has been diligent in
studying and tracing her genealogy, and
has used the means accumulated through
years of industry and toil in gathering up
and arranging names and data of her
kindred, as far back as obtainable; and
at last has had this matter compiled in a
very complete book form, available for
those of her name and lineage to peruse,
and become familiar with if they so de-
sire. The real value of it to herself is to
have a work done for her relatives in the
house of the Lord, whereby the family
chain may be linked together into one
perfect circle.
	The book is printed on excellent paper,
and is handsomely bound, and contains
fifty-eight illustrations of the family, men
and women. Some of them have been
members of the Latter-day Saints’ Church
and known among our people.
	The Stevens family are of Puritan an-
cestry, the first one the author mentions
is William Stevens, who came to New
England before 1632. She says he was a
ship carpenter, and one of the first set-
tlers of Salem, Mass., though he probably
had his residence in Boston or vicinity.
He filled several honorable positions,
such as selectman, commissioner, and for
four years a representative; and because
of his public services and in promoting
the prosperity of the colony he secured
an extraordinary grant of land (500 acres)
lying between two rivers with Indian
names, and a grant of six acres on what
was known as “Meeting House Neck;”
his residence property on the beach con-
sisted of eight acres. He is spoken of as
Governor Winthrop’s ship carpenter.
	He built the “Royal Merchant” of 600


tons. There are several notices of him
as ship builder in other places. He was
a member of the General Court in 1665,
when the colonial government made re-
sistance to the commissioners sent over
by the king. Four of Mr. Stevens’ neigh-
bors testified in a quarterly court in Sa-
lem in 1667, “that he had said he would
bear no office where Charles Stuart had
anything to do, and he cared no more for
Charles Stuart as king than any other
man, and that he abhorred the name of
Charles Stuart.” For this offence he was
imprisoned for one month and fined
twenty pounds and costs of trial, and was
deprived of his privileges as a freeman.
	Like others who rebelled against the
king, he lost prestige and failed in pros-
perity. It is said there is no record of
his death or a settlement of his estate. It
appears, however, that he married and
had seven children. The book contains a
record of the births. One, James Stevens,
a deacon of the church at Gloucester,
married Susan Evelyth, also Samuel,
married Mary Elery.
	There are many interesting items such
as these contained in the book, but we
have given this as marking the advent of
the first of Sister Elvira’s progenitors in
America. Whether she is directly descend-
ed from this Mr. Stevens we are not sure,
but he is a good specimen of the Puritans
who came over about that time and from
whom the colonies were largely peopled.
	The author has shown great persever-
ance in making so creditable a showing of
her ancestry, and we were pleased to see
that she had made mention of some who
have made a good record in this Church.
	Dr. Barney has made her own way in
the world, being left an orphan about the
time of the exodus from Nauvoo, and by
her own exertions and economy has built
and furnished four houses of her own.
These resideuces were all built in Salt
Lake City, and are probably all still
standing. The photos of the places are
shown in the book. Few women living
have done as much by their own industry
and she is certainly deserving of honor-
able mention, not only for building per-
manent habitations, but for effective
work she has done in other directions for
women and children. One of her splendid
characteristics is her loyalty to the Gos-
pel, and to those to whom she has be-
come endeared in the bonds of sisterhood.
We recommend the book to those inter-
ested in genealogical work, and trust she
will enjoy the fruits of her labor and reap
a glorious reward hereafter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUSAN AND MARY ANTHONY.
	Miss Mary S. Anthony beloved and only
sister of Miss Susan B. Anthony departed
this life at the old Anthony home in
Rochester, New York, Tuesday, February
5, 1907, her funeral was held on Thursday,
February 7, many glowing tributes of love
and esteem were paid by devoted life-long
friends. The attendance was very large.
The casket was of doye color and reposed
under a burden of white roses and calla
lilies, and about the foot it was draped
the stars and stripes. Old hymns were
played and sung, the scripture reading
was from I Corinthians 15th chapter.
Miss Mary was laid to rest in Mount Hope
cemetery beside her Sister the illustrious
Susan B. Anthony.


The younger Miss Anthony was a beau-
tiful character, and was not as is often
said, a supplement to Susan, but she was
one with her sister in her work and pur-
pose. Mrs. Greenleaf, in her address at
the funeral said, among other remarks.
“I revered Susan as the grandest woman
I ever knew. She was my inspirer, my
guide; but Sister Mary I loved as I have
loved few women. She was one of the
most perfect examples of a truly feminine
soul I have ever met. Most modest and
unassuming, gentle and loving, stanchest
of friends, tenderest of daughters, brave
and inflexible in the defense of what she
believed to be right.” Miss Mary Anth-
ony was present at the first Woman’s
Rights Convention held in Seneca Falls.
New York, in July, 1848, of whom there
are now very few remaining.
	Miss Mary Anthony was born April 2,
1827, so at her death she was seventy-
nine years, eight months and three days
old. The whole city of Rochester, it is
said, laid its tribute of honor on Mary
Anthony’s bier because of the importance
of her work in education, not only in the
capacity of her service as a teacher many
years, and of a principal in public schools,
but her untiring faithfulness and devotion
in her work for the poor and needy.
Blessed be her memory forever.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters and women generally
throughout the west have probably no-
ticed that the governors in the several
states are making appointments for the
great National American Arbitration and
Peace Conference to be held in New York
City the middle of April, of this year.
Some of us who have for eight years now
taken part in helping to sow the seeds of
peace and holding peace meetings in all
the wards throughout the entire Relief
Society in all its branches here and else-
where, feel great interest in this coming
conference and ardently hope that such a
powerful impression may be made upon
the great, the influential, the public-spir-
ited men of our nation, that its influence
may permeate the world. The Governor
of Utah has appointed several delegates
to attend this conference, and it is greatly
to be desired that they may return with
helpful suggestions for the peace meet-
ings to be held in May under the auspices
of the women’s organizations.
	REFERRING to entertainments and
parties given during the past winter that
are of special interest, we ought certainly
to mention in passing the Pioneer old-
fashioned ball given by the officers of
that Society, in the Lion House, January
31, 1907, and made specially significant
by the dances of long-ago in which many
old-timers, as well as younger people,
participated. The ladies were requested
to come in old-fashioned costumes, and the
greater number complied; many of them
were very quaint, and stylish as well, and
others were plain and simple, old-pioneer
style, some homespun, silk and woolen.
Some quite elaborate of “ye olden time,”
a very great variety. The ball opened with
a grand march led by President Joseph
F. Smith and wife, the enjoyment was 
very general and a spirit of good fellow-
ship was apparent throughout the even-


ing. The supper consisted of old-time
refreshments, in fact the idea of pioneer
life was quite successfully carried out, and
the committee must have been gratified
in having afforded so much genuine pleas-
ure to the guests who came by special
invitation. The Lion House was decidedly
popular as a place of entertainment in
former days, but had fallen into disuse of
late years, but seems uow to have re-
gained its former popularity.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS.
	My dear blessed sisters of the Relief
Society, there is a subject that weighs
heavily on my mind, and as I think there
are not many of you who are not in some
way interested in the cause, I desire to
commune with you today. I say blessed
sisters, for are we not blest indeed to
have our names enrolled in this grand and
God-given institution, and although we
are scattered far and wide, we have a
medium, in the dear EXPONENT of com-
municating with each other. I do not
remember the organization of the Relief
Society and the first year of its course,
for we were in England at the time, but
from the commencement of their public
meetings the second year, I have watched
the progress until the present time. I
well remember the grand things that were
predicted, and the great work given this
society to perform, and the spirit of it has
remained with me ever since, and been a
great help to me in the duties of life.
And while marvelous things have already
been accomplished the future will eclipse
all. The mission of the Relief Society
will never be finished while there is a
want to relieve, spiritual as well as tem-
poral. I wondered in those early days if
would live to see those glorious times
that had been predicted, and I have re-
joiced greatly, and my eyes have been
filled with happy tears as I have read of
the spread of the Gospel, and the growth
of the Relief Society even unto the is-
lands of the sea. Then rejoice in your
hearts, dear sisters, for your standing in
this great organization, for has not the
Prophet said that it was for the pure in
heart, the virtuous, and none others?
And one of our good brethren has said
that if we were approved of our com-
panions, our family, and our associates,
we were very likely to be approved of our
God. This has been a great comfort to
me as a rule to go by, and I feel like be-
ing very careful not to offend any. And
we read that “another book was opened,”
and sisters when the Relief Society rec-
ords are opened and our names are found
there in good standing it will be a happy
time indeed for us, and I trust we will all
have “something in them to recommend
us.”
	The influence that a Latter-day Saint
can yield is very great, and the humblest
of us, sisters, can find much to do.
	If we look about us with a prayerful
heart and by the help of our Heavenly
Father wonders can be accomplished.
And O, let us ever be found among the
“faith promoting series,” and never by
word or look do anything to pull down.
	And now to my all-important subject,
the motherless children of Zion. My
soul is drawn out in anguish at their great
loss, and their numbers, and there is not
a week passes but more are added to the


list, and my heart asks the question why
is it so? and my soul answers: It is God’s
will, even so. But oh, what a responsi-
bility left to the inhabitants of Zion, to
comfort, to cheer, to counsel, to guide
and direct, to seek after and watch over,
to encourage well doing and protect from
the devouring wolves. And let me ask
you, dear sisters of the Relief Society, to
so simplify the work in your homes, that
you may have time for this vast work of
training the motherless ones and help
them to have faith in the Gospel—in fact
to do by them as you would have done by
yours under like circumstances.
	Many years ago I was raised up from,
as it were, the gates of death, my grati-
tude was very great that I was spared to
my little ones, and I promised my Heav-
enly Father that I would be a “counselor
and guide” to all the motherless within
my reach. And sisters in your ministra-
tions do not overlook the big boys, their
hearts are tender, but they lock their sor-
rows in their own breasts and would
hardly think it womanly to pour out their
grief in any ears. Draw them to you in
kindness and sympathy, let them feel
that they indeed have a motherly friend
in you. Encourage them in their pros-
perity, and where failures appear come
to the rescue with all the faith you can
command, and wisdom will be given you
for every need.
	President George Q. Cannon once told
us that a faithful mother could say any-
thing to her boys (as well as girls) that
would be for their well being, which I have
proven to be true. And are they not all
our boys, and we do not want one to
stray or be lost. When the time comes
for them to take companions enquire if
they are going to the Temple, if so, tell
them you have a suit they can use, and
help them all you can. But if there are
obstacles in the way, try and find out
what they are, and help to remove them
if possible. Go to the Fountain, say here
are the clothing, oh, Father provide Thou
the lamb I pray Thee, and you will mar-
vel at the results of your efforts and your
petitions. But the subject is too vast for
this article and I can only hope that the
spirit of the mission will rest upon you as
it does upon me; and is this work not in-
cluded in the mission of saviors upon
Mount Zion? The Doctrine and Cove-
nants tells us that it is a slothful servant
that waits to be called in all things, then
let us take up this mission in behalf of
the dear mothers that have passed be-
hind the veil, as well as for their posterity
that remain with us.
	Sincerely your sister in the covenant of
peace,
					M. A. WINTERS.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 21, 1906.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK.
		MILLARD STAKE.

	Lecture 1—Marriage.
	Marriage ordained of God, Doc. and
Cov. 49: 15-17. Sacredness of the mar-
riage covenant, Doc. and Cov. 132 Key
to Theology, chap. 17.

	Lecture 2—The education required be-
fore entering the married state.
	Boys contemplating marriage should
learn the arts of agriculture and mechan-
ism. The intelligent farmer, the most in-

[Column 2]
dependent of mankind, and it is he who
can lead the ideal life, close to the heart
of nature, Girls should be instructed in
housekeeping in every department of the
home, also in the development of charac-
ter and ability. Introduce practical illus-
trations; more preparation should be
made to qualify girls for wives and moth-
ers than to enable them to become school
teachers and business women.

	Lecture 3—God’s first commandment
to multiply and replenish the earth. Gen.
1: 28.
	How to prepare for motherhood. The
gospel as essential to spiritual develop-
ment. The Word of Wisdom essential
to physical development. The joy and
love of a willing mother to rear an
honorable family the greatest work a wo-
man can do.

	Lecture 4—Building the home.
	As in the beginning an intelligent Cre-
ator prepared the earth to be the home
of mankind, so we should intelligently
prepare our homes—with firm founda-
ons—for comfort, convenience, economy
of time and strength, for health and
harmony, for peace and love. If a coun-
try home, convenient buildings for the
stock, poultry, etc.; improved orchards,
gardens, lawns and flower gardens, All
that tends to elevate and add refinement
to the home should be encouraged,cheer-
fulness of disposition should be cultivat-
ed in the family. The home should be
the ideal spot to all concerned.

	Lecture 5—Government of the home.
	The unity of parents in governing their
children—one parent should not interfere
with the other, whether he or she is re-
proving the child, unless cruel treatment
is exercised. Teach the child to be self-
governing by setting good examples—by
reasoning with and showing the results
of doing certain things. Never threaten
or intimidate children; show them gently
and kindly how to do things; do not call
your children names, such as dunces,
fools, blockheads, or little devils, remem-
ber they are “chips of the old block.”
Have confidence in your children and
place responsibility upon them—children
thus treated will justify the confidence
reposed in them. Government is guiding,
not controlling by force. Do not scold—
as far as possible, control by gentleness
and love.

	Lecture 6—Responsibility of parents.
	Blessing of chiidren, Doc. and Cov. sec.
20, y. 70 sec. 29, v.46, 47, 48 68: 25-31.
Faith, repentance and baptism.

	Lecture 7—What to teach our children.
	Cleanliness, industry, Doc. and Cov.
42: 41, 42. Not to take the name cf God
in vain, Doc. and Cov. 63: 60-64. To
keep the Sabbath day holy, Doc. and
Cov. 59. To love and respect their par-
ents. To respect grown people and the
rights of playmates. To be kind to all
dumb animals, and to reverence old age.
To honor father and mother by leading
pure lives. To be obedient to all right-
eous authority. That before they can
learn to govern or control others they
must first learn to obey. Teach them to
be patriotic, brave, gentle, true, modest;
not to listen to vulgar or profane conver-
sation; not to be loud or boisterous in
the streets or in public places; not to be

[Column 3]
vain of fine clothes or superior accom-
plishments, Doc. and Cov. 42:40. that it
is an honor to be careful of their clothes,
and to appreciate the care and love ex-
ercised that they might be well clothed
and fed and provided with comfortable
homes and education; that all honest
work is honorable. It is a false education
which does not prepare us to meet the
battles of life. Work wins and educates.
By doing we learn to do. Never ridicule
an unfortunate person, such conduct does
not enhance our intelligence, or increase
our importance. All persons have defects
—we are wise if we pay heed to our own
and let others alone. Last but not least,
in teaching our children, teach them to
imitate not a fool, but a wise man.

	Lecture 8—Care of the sick. Doc. and
Cov. sec. 42, v. 43-53-

	Lecture 9—Effects of alcohol and to-
bacco on muscle and brain.
	Cite examples that have come under
your own observation of those who have
suffered and died from effects of this evil
habit. Some business men Will not em-
ploy men or boys who use either liquor
or tobacco. State the reason why. For
useful reference see Doc. and Cov. sec. 89.
Word of Wisdom.
	Note: This lecture should be given as
impressive as possible, then the lecturer
should be sent as a missionary to the -
Mutual Improvement Association and to
the Primary, said lecture to be delivered
to each of these Associations.

	Lecture 10—The Tragedy of Broken
Family Ties contrasted with a happy,har-
monious, united and Loyal Family.
	Note: On the second Thursday in De-
cember a suitable program should be pre-
pared for Christmas and to celebrate Jos-
eph Smith’s birthday.
		ISABELLA ROBISON, Pres.
		MARINDA BENNETT, Sec.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
I. Language in the Home.
	He that hath a perverse tongue falleth
into mischief.” Give meaning of ‘‘Moth-
er Tongue.” The necessity of correct
language in the home. Impure language
displeasing unto the Lord. Read James
3; Matt. 12: 36.

II. Home Influence.
	As the twig is bent, so the tree is in-
clined.” What is our attitude as mothers
to our children, as Primary, Sabbath
School and M. I. A. members. How may
we create an influence at home typical of
heaven. Ref. Young Woman’s Journal,
August, 1905, Juvenile Instructor, October
1, 1904, October 15, 1901, Nov. 1, 1901.

III. Mother’s Duty to the Primary and
		Sabbath School.
	Have children ready on time. Encour-
age their telling what the teachers tell
them. Assist them in home preparation.
Age of Primary children. Ref. Juvenile
nstructor. January 15, 1906, Young
Woman’s Journal, May, 1902.

IV. Loyalty.
	To those in authority over us. To our
co-workers. To our brethren and sisters,
To our Creator. Be loyal citizens. Ref.
January and July Improvement Era,
1905.


V. Self Control.
	Tbe secret to successful life. Mother’s
must obtain it. Teach children self-con-
trol. Ref. Y. W. J. May, 1900.
VI. System.
	“There is not an hour of youth but is
trembling with destinies.” Use of spare
moments. Have rest and sports to some
purpose. “The great majority of youths
who go to the bad are ruined after supper.
Ref. Improvement Era, 1906.
	VII. Unity.
	“Where there is unison, there is
strength.” Necessity of union among as-
sociate officers, teachers, members. What
is the greatest weapon wielded against
union. How may this evil be avoided. How
shall we train our children that the spirit
of fault-finding may not develop. Ref.
Juvenile Instructor, Jan. 1, 1904.
VIII. Obey Counsel.
	“Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
Sustain those in authority over us by
obeying their instructions. Honor those
whom God honors. Ref. Improvement
Era, Feb. 1906. Deseret News Feb. 6,
1906.
IX. Habit.
	How formed. How shall we form good
habits. How shall we teach our children
the value of good habits. Read Improve-
ment Era, March 1903, p. 377. Juvenile
Instructor, March 14, 1900. Y. W. J. Oct.
1906.
X. Respect.
	What is respect? How obtained. How
retained. To whom is it due. How
shown. Illustrated by contrast. Read
Improvement Era, Nov. 1906.
XI. Dress.
	How shall we dress? Its physical effect.
Its moral effect. Read Y. W. J. Feb.
1906.
XII. Pioneering.
	Conditions incident to pioneer life.
Develops strength of endurance. Enum-
erate advantages in pioneer life. Read
Y. W. J. July, 1902.
			LUCY F. GRANT, Pres.
			ELLEN H. JOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved sister.
		MARGARET PIERCE WHITESIDES YOUNG,
Widow of President Brigham Young, one of Utah’s
loved and respected Pioneers, and a member of the
first organization of the Relief Society, who de-
parted this life January 16, 1907.
	WHEREAS Sister Young has been closely con-
nected with the Emerson Ward Relief Society—
				Resolved that—
	We, the officers and members desire to express
our appreciation of her example, integrity and
worth as a faithful mother in Israel, and wish to
extend our sincere sympathy to the family in their
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased and be placed
on our records, and one sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication.
	“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life.
		Faithful as daughter, mother, woman and wife;
	Crowned with celestial glory thou shall shine
		’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
					BARBARA M. JONES,
					CICILY C. BARTON,
					SARAH T. SOUTH,
					PRUDENCE BROWN,
								Committee.


To the memory of Cyrena Dustin Merrill, who
departed this life February 3, 1907. Deceased was
born in New York, she went to Ohio when but a
child, and was converted to the gospel by hearing
an Elder sing the Hymn “An angel came down
from the mansions of glory,” Being naturally spir-
tual minded, and possessed by strong religious
convictions, she soon joined the church leaving
all, for the sake of the gospel and gathered with
the Saints at Far West.
	Sister Merrill was a member of the First Relief
Society organization in Nauvoo, and at the or-
ganization of the St. Joseph Stake, June 1883, she
was chosen first counselor to the President Sister
Willmirth East and labored in that position until
January 1898, when she was released on account
of her age, but her interest was still in the Relief
Society work. On January 6, 1907, it being her
90th birthday, members of the Relief Society Stake
Board with a few very intimate friends and rela-
tives assembled at her home, and held a testimony
meeting, she bore a faithful testimony to the truth-
fulness of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith with whom she was personally ac-
quainted. We appreciate her labors and example,
during our association with her. She was a devoted
wife and mother, and we recognize in her a faith-
ful friend whose memory will ever be cherished
by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake.
					ELIZABETH LAYTON.
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE KIMBALL.
							Committee.


Resolutions of Respect on the death of Sister
Delilah King Olsen, wife of Daniel Olsen, and
daughter of Judge King of Millard County, who
departed this life January 5th, 1907; at Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	WHEREAS; Our Father in Heaven, in his infinite
wisdom has called from our midst Sister Olsen,
who, for many years previous to her removal to
Salt Lake City, was a faithful worker in the as-
sociations here; following are the positions which
she has filled with honor, viz:
	President of Fillmore Ward Relief Society, of
Primary, of Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association, Secretary of Millard Stake Relief
Society, Stake President of Primary Association,
and a Teacher in Sunday School.
	She was ever energetic in the performance of
her duties, ever a faithful and true friend and lov-
ing mother, and one whose words were like pearls.
—In many years of close friendship we never
heard a word from her lips that one could censure
She recognized the best in every one, and where
she could not speak words of praise, she held her
peace. Her meekness of spirit won the respect
and love of all who associated with her. We feel
to express our love for her in these few lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister, associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things well,
and say, “Thy will Oh Lord not ours be done.”
	Resolved—that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us, that of being a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved—that we extend our heart felt sympa-
thy to the hereaved children and relatives—that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to them,
a copy be entered on the minute book of Millard
Stake Relief Society and that they be printed in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				ISABELLA E. ROBISON,
			in behalf of Relief Society.


Tribute to the memory of Sister Hannah Single-
ton Wild, who died February 1st, 1907. She was
born in England on the 6th day of April, 1840.
Her parents embraced the gospel in England and
crossed the great waters for America with their 9
months’ old babe. On arriving in America they
journeyed to St. Louis. During their sojourn in
St. Louis an epidemic of cholera broke out and
the mother and sister were taken from the family.
At the age of 14 she with the remainder of the fam-
ily emigrated to Salt Lake City. After spending
the first winter there they came to American Fork
where she has resided continuously. She was
married at the age of 16 to John Singleton by
whom she had 5 children. Her husband died Dec.
24th, 1865. In 1867 she was married to Joseph
Wild by whom 5 more children were added to
her family, 7 of whom survive her. In 1882 she
studied obstetrics under Dr. Romania B. Pratt
in Salt Lake City and from that time until her
death she labored diligently, patiently and faith-


fully among the sick never too weary to attend 
to the numerous calls, made upon her by night or
by day, but always ready to administer to the sick. 
She was the instrument in God’s hand of bringing 
seventeen hundred souls into this world. 
	The lovely white casket which held all that was 
mortal of our beloved sister was covered with 
flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.

				RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS our Heavenly Father has seen fit to 
remove our beloved sister, from our midst one who 
has been to all an example of patience and cheer-
fulness and a loving mother. Therefore be it re-
solved by the sisters of the American Fork 4th 
Ward Relief Society that we tender our sympathy
unto the bereaved family and relatives. And while 
we feel deeply the loss, we know that she died as 
she had lived in the hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. 
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the re-
cord of this Society, and sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication. 
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the 
Relief Society February 28th, 1907. 

	Why do we mourn that she has left us? 
	We should only say well done; 
	She was true to her probation 
	And a place in heaven has won. 
	'Tis true her parting has bereft us 
	But her virtues we recall; 
	She was candid, firm and valiant, 
	And a loving friend to all. 

	She has gathered with her kindred 
	But her work will never cease; 
	She will love the truth in heaven 
	And impart her works of peace, 
	While she mingles with the angels 
	Yet her choicest blessings fall 
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones, 
	Yes, she blesses one and all. 
					ALICE T. STEELE, 
					ALICE A. MOTT,
					SAEINA E. ALLEN, 
					ELLEN G. PROCTOR. 
								Committee.


On the 25th day of January, 1907, there passed
from earth one of the noble spirits of this dispensa-
tion, Sister Anna D. Johnson Kempe. In her
death, which occurred while on a visit to her
daughters, in Mesa, Arizona, St. Johns loses one
of her most loyal and progressive citizens, and our
Relief Society one of its most faithful workers.
She was born February 5th, 1837, in Fredrickstad
Norway. Her early life was one of toil, much of
her time being spent with her father and brothers
fishing for the market.
	For many years she worked out. She could not
go home when she felt inclined as girls do at the
present time but was engaged for a number of
years at a time.
	Her people were religious, but were satisfied
with what they had. She alone seemed to yearn
for some thing better. At the age of eighteen she
first heard the sound of the gospel, and she knew
it was true. She was away from home at the time
learning the dressmakers trade, and was not per-
mitted to return to her parents afterward. Hence-
forth her only kindred were those who cast their
lot with the Saints of God. For eleven years she
worked in Norway, assisting the elders and savingmeans to come to Zion. Very often she would give
the whole of her weeks earnings to the church, and
counted It a privilege to do so. In 1865 she emi-
grated to Utah crossing the plains with oxteams.
In 1866 she was married to Christopher J. Kempe.
They moved to Provo where they lived six years.
In 1872 moved to Richfield remained there long
enough, to get good homes started, for Sister
Kempe’s thrift, industry and economy made a
showing in any place where she lived. In 1880
the family were called to help to build up the
settlements in Arizona, arriving in St. Johns in
October of that year. Then commenced a heroic
struggle to maintain themselves and build homes,
amid many discouraging conditions, not the least
being the bitter persecutions of our enemies. But
Sister Kempe always looked on the bright side of
things and had an encouraging word and more
substantial aid for those worse off than herself.
In 1884 her husband with other brethren, was tried
on a charge of ‘unlawful cohabitation” and most
cruelly sentenced to three years in the Detroit
House of Correction. This trial she bore bravely,
as she did everything else in life, and from that
time took upon herself the duties of both parents
in the rearing, educating and providing for her
family. After Brother Kempe’s return from prison


he was called to preside in the Concho Ward,
where he lived up to the time of his death, some
years ago. Sister Kempe was the mother of six
daughters, five of whom survive her. They are
Mrs. Hannah Greer of Holbrook, Mrs. Amelia
Coleman Prest of Y L. M. I. A. of St. Johns Stake;
Mrs. Olena Lewis and Amanda Hastings of Mesa,
Arizona, and Miss Leila Kempe of St. Johns.
Sister Kempe was a most devoted and self sacrific-
ing mother. Her daughters were early taught and
encouraged not only in literary pursuits but in all
kinds of work, and they are today successful
teachers, seamstresses and homebuilders.
	Sister Kempe has been actively engaged in Re-
lief Society work since she came to Zion and for
many years a subscriber for the EXPONENT. She
acted as President of our Ward Relief Society for
several years and was an active teacher till the
time of her leaving for a visit in November 1906.
	Although her funeral and burial took place
at Mesa where she died, memorial services were
held for her in the St. Johns Stake Academy on
the first Sunday in February 1907 when the Stake
Presidency, the Bishop, and many of her old
friends and neighbors bore testimony to her sterl-
ing qualities. Her integrity to the truth, her loyal-
ty to the priesthood, her strict honesty in the pay-
ment of her tithes and offerings, her unbounded
hospitality, benevolence and loving neighborly
qualities were all dwelt upon, showing beyond a
doubt what the gospel will do for a person if they
live up to its requirements. Also at the first meet-
ing of the St. Johns Relief Society held after her
sudden death (which was caused from pneumonia
after a two-weeks illness) her sisters bore testimony
to her many years of faithful work in our Society.
Felt that one of their strong props had gone, and
she would be sadly missed. It was resolved that
we send a sketch of her life to the EXPONENT and
that resolutions of respect and condolence be sent
to her family and placed upon our records. With
dear Sister Kempe we feel that all is well. A
glorious resurrection awaits her, and may God
comfort her family is our prayer.
			SARAH R. BERRY, President.
			IDA H. UDALL, Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STARE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine
Stake was held at Lehi, January 25th,
1907, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Notwithstanding the stormy weather
there was a very good attendance of of-
ficers and members.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring welcomed the sisters, and
wished all a happy and prosperous “New
Year.” Felt to thank the officers for their
diligence during the past year. There
have been many sick and you have at-
tended them; also much has been done in
building Tabernacle and Meeting Houses.
President Bathsheba W. Smith had recom-
mended that every sister contribute one
dollar for the erection of the “Woman’s
Building.”
	Six of the wards were reported by the
different presidents showing unity and
progression; the poor are looked after
and there is means to relieve them for
the people donate liberally.
	Duett: Sisters Whitman and Clark.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: “There
is no need to worry about the Relief
Society, it is all right,” and made other
excellent remarks upon sacred subjects.
“Trials are necessary for our advance-

[Column 2]
ment and for the increase of the work.
Let us do our part and be faithful to our
calling.
	Sister Laura Cutler was very pleased
to meet her old associates and fellow
workers, found that Relief Society work
is the same everywhere. Her Stake (Gra-
nite) had taken up the lives of our Presi-
dents and found it created an interest and
brought a good attendance to their meet-
ings. Was thankful that Sister Standring
was able to attend the meetings and give
counsel to the sisters.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Conference reassembled 2 o’clock, Pre-
sident Standring presiding. After the
opening exercises President Standring ex-
pressed her joy and satisfaction at seeing
such a good attendance this afternoon;
thought the sisters were in the line of
their duty. Referred to the remarks of
President Chipman in the forenoon.
	Six of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents.
	Song: “Savior let me walk with Thee.”
Sister Fitten.
	President A. J. Evans desired the moth-
ers to impress upon the minds of the boys
their duty and watch them and guard 
them against all sorts of evil doings and
influences.
	President James H. Clarke thought that
of late a spirit of irreverence was growing
up among our young people, close to the
line of infidelity, not all at once but gradu-
ally. Boys who are born of parents who
have received the holy priesthood cannot
be saved through the faithfulness of their
parents. Urged mothers to look after the
boys and the girls. Our children are no
better than others. You desire to save
yourselves and your children. There are
scoffers among us as there was in the days
of the Savior. Keep the boys under good
influences; send them to good Church
schools if you can. If mother comes up
to pay a little tithing and brings the chil-
dren and allows them to pay a little it will
encourage them that they will honor the
principle of tithing.
	Bishop Gardner (of Lehi) felt to con-
gratulate the Relief Society. These are
the select, they understand their business
and are working at it. It requires stamina
to keep up to our duties. We are visiting
the homes of the people. Let us live our
religion, we cannot live without it.
	Bishop Lewis (of Lehi) said a few words
of commendation for the labors of the
sisters.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock, one of the
Stake Board, made a few remarks on the
importance of the Relief Society work.
Desired to do her duty and magnify her
calling acceptable to the Lord.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt the
speaking and the singing had all been ap-
propriate. We have all the influences we
can combat. Our children are not perfect
because they are born of good parents.
We are blest and strengthened by being
here today. Desired to carry a good in-
fluence wherever she might go.

[Column 3]
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board.
A great responsibility rests upon us, we
must not lose our influence over our chil-
dren. Let us make this a year of im-
provement to all.
	Singing: “Great God attends while Zion
sings.” Prayer by President Rebecca
Standring. Conference adjourned for
three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Secretary.


ONEIDA STHKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society convened in
the First Ward meeting house, Preston,
President Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	Counselor Solomon H. Hale, Patriarch
S. R. Parkinson and four members of the
stake board present.
	Singing, “Praise to tne man,” etc.
Prayer by S. R. Parkinson. Singing,
“Let the lower lights be burning”—Miss-
es Weaver and Benson,
	Pres. Julia S. Roper, of Preston first
ward, spoke of the good being derived
from “Mother’s Work,” also on ‘Grati-
tude.”
	Secretary Phoebe A. McNeil read a
paper on Mother’s Influence in the
Home.
	Solo, “Know this, that every soul is
free”—Mary E. McNeil.
	Prest. Esther Rogers, of Preston fisrt
ward, spoke on the blessed privilege of
bearing children, rearing them, gaining
their confidence, etc., also of unity in R.
S. work.
	Dora Geddes gave a lecture on “Cha-
ty.”
	Counselor Sol. H. Hale addressed the
conference, touching briefly the subjects
of organization of R.S. work, noble call-
ing of mother, and patience; advised
wives to prudently encourage their hus-
bands to do good.
	Singing, “Guide us, O thou great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Bodily, of
Fairview.
	Afternoon Session.—Singing. Prayer
by Bishop Benson, of Whitney. Singing.
	Pres. Julia Jenson, of Preston second
ward, spoke on the importance of moth-
erhood, also mother’s influenced pow-
er of prayer.
	Solo, “I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth”—Florence B. Jonasson.
	Pres. Sarah J. Fjelsted, of Preston
fourth ward, spoke on diminishing our
troubles by doing good to others, and ad.
vised all to be cheerful and contented,
	Linda N. Benson gave a lecture on
Prayer,
	Duet—Eva Johnson and Eleanor
Thomas. 
	Counselor Jos. S, Geddes spoke on
Faith of Latter-day Saint women, Zion
leading educationally as well as spirit-
ually, and regretted the growing evil of
profanity.
	Recitation by Ellen Henderson.
	Pres. L. B. Benson spoke of sacrament
meetings and slack attendance at same,
etc.; advised all to grasp every oppor-
tunity for learning; urged the sisters to
care for the sick and needy.
	Conference adjourned after singing “O
ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Bishop Mecham, of Riverdale.
		PHEBE A. MCNEIL, Secretary.
		LINDA M. BENSON, Rec. Sec,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should he a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

