[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 288 | The Home | Spring Kathryn | E. Franks]
I thank my Heavenly Father for the Relief Society and for the nursery program, and hope that I may be able to do my part in keeping it successful. New Serial ''Ring Around Her Heart'' to Begin in May A new serial "Ring Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin will begin in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story relates the problems and vital decisions that confront Joan Morgan, a young nurse, in her efforts to achieve happiness and fulfillment as a woman who tries to harmonize love and service in her life. Shirley Thulin, the author, is well known to readers of the Magazine for her serials, stories, and homemaking articles which have been featured over the past several years. The new serial offers drama, life-like portraits of real people, and a subtle and inspiring development of personalities under stress of circumstances: 287

Kathryn E. Franks Spring has arrived early! I know, by the touch of the soft spring air when I throw open the window, that the last patch of snow has melted down beside the pond, near Willow Lane. The apple trees behind the lilac bush have flowered in pinkish white blossoms. Already some of the petals are dropping like soft rain on the new green grass below... And along the walk yellow and lavender crocuses have started to bloom. Next door, in my neighbor's yard, baby chicks peep and scratch. In the distance woolly lambs bleat on an April hill. A delicate breeze ruffles my curtains. I know if I put on my walking shoes and walk down the old road until I reach the edge of the woods, near the marshes, I will find pussy willows... And close to the fence posts the wild violets may, just may, be purple with petals. There is a wild desire to hurry through my morning's work... To rush outside. Though dirty dishes are piled in the sink, the boys' room in a horrible state of clutter, and dust everywhere... I want to forget it, and go. It is no time for baking pies when the sky is a pastel blue; no time for dusting when the soil is ready for a hoe. How can I concentrate on a broom when the honeybees hum outside my window, and the fragrance of blossoms flcats through my open door. And I wouldn't need a sweater; no sweater at all. As a child eager for skates, a bike, and a kite, I run to the closet and dig out my old shoes, and dash out the door.