[Column 2]
	“Scatter Sunshine” was sung by Lucy
Cutler and Dora Geddes, assisted by the
board. Counselor Hannah Mickleson spoke
to the teachers on their high calling, advised
them to pray together before beginning
their visits, and to seek to magnify their
work.
	Mrs. Nickleson of Logan addressed the
conference. Spoke on her work in the Re-
lief Society, said her family had never suf-
fered in her absence.
	Dora Geddes, Mary Shaffer, Millie Go-
lightly, Margaret Dunkley, Chloe Howell,
and Adeline Lowe, each encouraged the
teachers to do their duties.
	President L. B. Benson endorsed what
had been said, especially the thought of
teachers praying together, said not to refuse
to bless the sick when asked to do so.
	Duet, Lucy Cutler and Dora Geddes,
“Make the World Brighter.”
	Benediction, Sarah Feldsted.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	Prayer, Peter Mickleson.
	Duet, “O My Father,” Lucy Cutler and
Dora Geddes.
	Treasurer’s report approved.
	General and Stake officers were sus-
tained.
	Jennie W. Rallison gave the lesson on the
ninth commandment.
	Congregation sang, “Truth reflects upon
our senses.”
	Phebe McNeil spoke on “Why we should
attend sacrament meetings.”
	Nellie T. Johnson, Stake president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., spoke on the relationship of
her work to Relief Society, asked for the
co-operation of the mothers.
	Marinda Skidmore, Stake president of
the Primary, spoke of the importance of the
Primary work.
	Singing, “Oh Awake My Slumbering
Minstrel.”
	President Benson said that in connection
with the other lessons given the Relief So-
ciety in the coming year special lectures on
moral training of our children would be
given.
	Minnie Geddes of North Ogden spoke on
Relief Society work, asked all to be true
Latter-day Saints.
	President Joseph Geddes said he was
pleased with the work of the Relief Society,
also said a true home depends largely on a
good mother, if our children are guided
aright, all will be well with us.
	Counselor Taylor Nelson said, all organi-
zations of the Church advance the work of
the Lord. He appreciated the Relief So-
ciety work.
	Counselor Jas. Johnson expressed appre-
ciation of the Relief Society work.
	After singing “Praise to the Man” and
benediction by John Larson, conference ad-
journed for six months.
		PHEBE A. M. McNIEL, Sec.
