CRUMBLING.
Who reared that lofty frieze and architrave
O’er western desert fanes? And who the sum
Of untold years have named of hall and nave,
In crumbling ruin? Time is silent, dumb.
Who planned and placed almighty Jove or
	Thor
The thousand pillar’d temple of the East?
And ere its waning what bold idolator
Did worship there, or who did hold his feast?
Where by Stalla’s azure-mantled sea,
The Sister Cities doomed for ages dire—
Lost Herculaneum and Pompeii?
O’erwhelmed by wild Vesuvius’ stormy ire!
Where now Minerva’s far-famed Parthenon,
“Athena’s wonder” that enthralled the world?
Fallen to dust, its glowing beauty gone—
The Grecian’s glory into ruin hurled!
Where grand, unrivaled Thebes and Tentyra,
And their divinities all o’er the plain?
Crushed ’neath the wheels of Time’s engulf-
	ing car!
All crumbling with their gods to earth again.
What famed Palmyra? ’Tis the wild beasts’s
	lair!
Voluptuous Nineveh, so vast and brave?
The Ephesian City and strange “Temple”
	there?
The hooting owl sits brooding o’er their grave!
What Babylon? that fain would heaven amaze?
With Babel’s tower, her walls and brazen bars?
The lion’s whelps cry through her lonely ways,
Where the enraptured Chaldee worshiped
	stars!
What now thy once proud cities, Palestine?
The ploughshare brightens o’er their crum-
	bling walls.
The olive waves above the Christian's shrine,
His temples, palaces and halls!
Crumbling to dust is Petra’s rock-wrought
	tomb!
And Baulbec’s temple—“sacred to the Sun!”
Silent is “Mention” wasting to its doom;
Earth once again Rome’s monuments have
	won.
Crumbling the Aztecs’ glory and their fame—
Thy sculptures rare, Palenque and Copan;
The dream of ages now but dust to scan.
Great London, thou renowned of all the world—
Are they invulnerable when unfurled
’Gainst old Nemesis’ Time, and canst thou,
	save?
Will ghostly shades flit through each silent
	street,
Where he has reaped his human harvest here?
As now within thy famed, crowned abbey west.
The weird spectres sound each mouldering
	bier.
Man hath his monuments; nations, cities,
	states,
Their centuries: to all the same as naught,


Threads spun are wrought and severed by th[-]
	fates,
To be respun again and still rewrought.
Man's monuments are fleeting shapes of fame—
Like airy mists soon fading to decay,
God's still enduring, still renewing flame
Are starry worlds, and ever shining way.
							—L. M. H.


