[Column 2]
Jemima was trying to keep her trouble to
herself. Suddenly there was a knock at
the door. I timidly opened it after asking
who was there. A lady walked in, an en-
tire stranger to us. Who had sent her here
this wintry night so unexpected, yet so wel-
come, so necessary, for it was not long be-
fore a newborn babe came to that stable
and was laid in its mother’s arms, Feb. 29,
1852.
	Well, all this was just a little too much.
This over, I just dropped every feather and
wept. Oh, but was not this a God-given
testimony; we ever since have felt so. Who
could have expressed a keener sympathy.
He did not send to us an earthly doctor,
whose every look and action would seem
to cut us as a knife, but a poor hunted being
who, like ourselves, must be kept out of
sight, keeping our troubles to ourselves.
	She had accidentally heard that we were
here and came to us or I can only feel that
she was sent and I don’t doubt that she
went her way comforted, as she left us as
soon as her work was done. We have never
seen her since.
	In the year of ’52, three months later, we
started West, reaching Salt Lake City Sep-
tember 28. We then came on to Manti,
reaching here October 4, 1852, and were
welcomed by my father and a score of rela-
tives and friends.
	And though the next twenty years were
filled with hardships and anger, still they
were happy years.
	Everything we had to wear was made in
our home; our summer shoes, our hats, bon-
nets, dresses and underwear, by our own
busy hands.
	I raised my family of eight children, and
now have 49 grandchildren and 86 great-
grandchildren. As my children married
and went to homes of their own, I occupied
my time with other work. I was secretary
of the Relief Society for fourteen years, a
worker in the Manti Temple for thirteen
years, and at the present time I am in my
ninetieth year, having been born November
22, 1823, and some times the question comes
to me, “Have I garnered a sheaf of empty
grain, or will it be filled with God’s plump
grain?”
