IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Ellen McNeal Pedon died at her home
in Torre[-] Dec. 18. 1912. Sister Pedon was the
wife of Robert N. Pedon and the daughter of
Alexander McNeal and Gennett Young; was born
in Darvel, A[-]rshire, Scotland, Nov. 25. 1861. Was
married to Robert N. Pedon in 1882. Became
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in December, 1892. Baptized by
Wm. McAllister and confirmed same day by Elder
John McQueen. Emigrated to Utah with her
husband in 1893. Stopped in Logan, Cache Co.
	In 1894 they went to Alberta, Canada, and
came to Torrey in 1899, where they have re-
mained. She leaves a faithful husband and son
and many friends to mourn her loss. Sister
Pedon has been President of the Primary of
Torrey ward for a number of years, and at the
time of her death she was a faithful secretary
in our Sunday School, and assistant secretary
and teacher in the Relief Society, and her place
will be hard to fill. She has now gone to reap
her reward and join the loved ones gone before.
Gone from sorrow, grief and anguish,
Gone no more with pain to languish,
Gone, thy longing soul set free,
But Oh! how hard to part with thee.
RESOLUTIONS IN HONOR OF SISTER
ELLEN PEDON.
	Whereas, in the allwise providence of our
Heavenly Father it has pleased Him to call from
our midst Sister Ellen Pedon, assistant secretary


and teacher in the Relief Society in the Torrey
ward
	Therefore, be it resolved, that in the passing
away of our beloved sister, we, the officers and
members of said association, are bereft of a wise
teacher and a cheerful and loving associate. Sis-
ter Pedon was ever ready at the call of duty, no
matter what her physical suffering might have
been; she carried not her own burdens but light-
ened those of others. The needy and suffering
ones found her a ministering angel in the truest
sense of the word. Her gentle presence filled
her home with comfort and delight.
	Resolved, that we mourn the loss of our sister
and appreciate the worthy example set by her.
	We, her sisters and co-laborers, extend to her
bereaved husband and son our heartfelt sympathy
and pray God to comfort them in their great
sorrow.
	Be it further resolved, that we place a copy of
these resolutions on our records, send one to the
bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT for
publication.
	Mary E. Forsyth, President; Maria A. Pierce,
1st Counselor; Rena Hall, 2nd Counselor.
A TRIBUTE.
	To a dear departed friend, who died Decem-
ber 10. 1912, who was nearly 82 years old. with
whom I have been acquainted ever since Oct. 8,
1868. Always found her a true friend and kind-
hearted; she was a good woman, faithful and
true; a teacher in the 11th ward Relief Society
for many years—Sarah G. McMaster. She was
chosen President in the month of April, 1892, of
the 11th ward Relief Society. She was always
thinking of the poor—what she could do for their
benefit, and on account of ill health in the month
of July, 1907, she resigned her labors. I have
always loved her for her integrity. I was her
treasurer and was so well acquainted with her;
with her kind acts and her loving disposition, and
sincerely mourn her loss.
MARIA RIDGOOD BARNES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Emi W. Peterson, Second
Counselor in the Mapleton Relief Society,
who departed this life Dec. 6, 1912.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His.
wisdom has called from our midst our be-
loved sister and co-laborer, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers and mem-
bers of the Mapleton Relief Society, do ac-
knowledge the hand of God in this separa-
tion, and extend to the family and friends
our heartfelt sympathy and condolence in
this their hour of sad bereavement; realiz-
ing that we, too, with them, have lost a
faithful mother, sister and friend; yet
knowing that God doeth all things well.
Ever praying that His spirit may comfort
and bless her husband and family, bringing
joy and consolation to their aching hearts.
	May the precepts of her life ever be kept
sacred in our memory as a guiding star
throughout our future existence.
“Mother, sister, thou hast left us,
And our loss we deeply feel;
But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to meet thee,
When the day of life is fled.
Then in heaven with joy to greet thee
Where no farewell tear is shed.”
	Eugenia Roundy, President; Frances
Snow. 1st Counselor; Elizabeth B. Full-
mer, Secretary.


