[Column 1]
abelle Walters of Mill Creek, Mary A. Web-
ster of Taylorsville, and Sarah J. Lester of
Murray Second Ward.
	Members of the Stake Board—Sisters
Harriet J. Miller and Katherine H. Brock-
bank, expressed their joy and satisfaction in
the labors of the Relief Society and their
desire to uphold and sustain those in author- 
ity over them.
	Member of the General Board, Sister 
Sarah McLelland paid a tribute to the mem-
ory and character of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards. Nothing more beautiful can be said
than that which was said of her, “She was a
friend to the poor.”
	Closed by singing “As the dews from
heaven distilling.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary E. Porter.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m.
	Singing, “All hail the glorious day.”
	Prayer, Sister Sarah A. Turnbow.
	Singing, “Pilgrim’s Chorus,” by the choir.
	Visitors present were: President Emme-
line B. Wells, Counselor Julina L. Smith,
Sister Sarah McClelland of the General
Board, and Sister Julia M. Brixen of the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The General and Stake Relief Society
officers were unanimously sustained.
	The following presidents continued their
reports: Addie M. Cannon, Forest Dale;
Sarah A. Brown, Murray First Ward; Ellen
M. Sperry, of Waterloo.
	Choir sang “Peace, Be Still.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
with the reports of the presidents, and felt
that the Relief Society work is improving.
Advised the teachers to be gentle and kind
in approaching the backward poor, those
who are reluctant in making their wants
known. Gave an interesting account of her
trip to Portland, her visit to the “Babies
Home,” and the work of the Saints there
in providing clothes and toys for these chil-
dren.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave inter-
esting reminiscences of her trip to Europe
to the International Council and Congress
of Women, held in London, in 1899.
	In closing her remarks prayed that the
Lord will bless and help us in the noble
work of charity, that we may be kind, and
tender, and loving, and filled with the spirit
of humility.
	Singing, “Let us all press on,” 
	The benediction was pronounced by Sis-
ter Julia M. Brixen, and the Conference was
adjourned for six months.
			PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Secretary.

