FOREIGN LETTER.
	[With Mrs. Barrett’s permission we take
pleasure in publishing the following letter
written to the president of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, thinking
it will enlighten the members of the organiza-
tion in regard to present conditions.—THE
EDITOR.]
		1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen,
					December 13, 1912.
Dear Mrs. Waller Barrett:
	In sending you a Christmas card today, I
wish also to tell you how warmly I wel-
come you as President of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. A., and
therefore on the Executive Committee of
the International Council of Women. I
have also heard from Lady Aberdeen of the
much better prospects for the United States
Council, and I wish with all my heart that
under your Presidency the Council may en-
joy a period of fruitful growth and ex-
pansion, and become from East to West,
and North to South, a power in the land
that shall worthily reflect the influence, ex-
traordinary in its kind, which the women of
the States are known to have exerted in
the wonderful development of the States.
Nowhere are the problems of women’s
sphere, dignity, place and economic values
more complex than in the States! Their
variability in one place and another is such
that anything like a common standard of
right must be almost an impossibility. And
precisely this feature presents the call for
a thoroughly organized Woman’s Council,
clear in its ideals, with a committee pene-
trated by the purest and highest ideals,
and yet individually filled with a patience
and wisdom that shall enable them to grasp
the difficulties in the various localities, and
to help the local workers gradually to a
fuller understanding and a common level of
the moral and economic position of women
in society and the State. If I realize, this
difficulty of local feeling even as between
my own town of Aberdeen and the city of
Edinburgh, or of Glasgow in Scotland, and
again in Manchester, or towns like Notting-
ham in England, and again the great chasm
between all of these and London, I can well
imagine what a tremendous problem you
women of the United States are up against! 
My full sympathies and good wishes are
with you, and I should like you to tell your
colleagues how warmly I wish them God-
speed. We know well in Great Britain what
the women of the present day owe to the
insight and courage of the women of the
United States; it is true the traditions of


long centuries held us back here; these are
the mountains we have to lift, but in a way
we know they can and will be lifted, be-
cause they are measurable and known, and
we have simply to plan the best means of
overcoming obstacles which have a certain
uniformity in character in spite of variabil-
ity in detail. But you in America have to
meet a constantly changing meshwork of
human and economic problems. What you
may plan in one place can be of no use in
another. Your mountains of difficulty seem
to me to be making and building themselves
as fast as you go forward, owing to your
steady influx of people and rapid growth of
new communities. Organization, complete
and yet elastic, is the hope of your Council,
and the country whose women gave the In-
ternational Council of Women to the world
is well able to produce an organization that
shall meet even the exceptional difficulties
of the States! I am looking forward with
pleasure to meeting yourself and other
Council workers at The Hague in a few
months. I don’t know where Miss Keys is
at present, but I sent copies of my letter
as Convener of the I. C. W. Education Com-
mittee to you and Mrs. Jameson-Miller, as
well as to Miss Keys, and I shall be glad
if you happen to have an early opportunity
of consulting your committee whether there
is any resolution connected with education-
al affairs that you wish to put forward at
The Hague as suitable for consideration
at the Quinquennial Council meetings.
How are the education and choice of em-
ployment bureaus for boys and girls pro-
gressing in the States? I have had a good
deal of correspondence asking for my ad-
vice from educationists in New York State,
Massachusetts, Illinois, Chicago, etc., and I
know for certain of several schools that are
following the system I started in Edinburgh.
Boston, for example, has been developing
the work splendidly in connection with the
Board of Education.
Ever kindly yours,
MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
Vice President
International Council of Women.


