BOOK REVIEW.
	The book, recently published, entitled
"The Holy Land," by Lydia D. Alder, is
the first book of its kind in Utah.
	Mrs. Alder has made herself quite fa-


miliar with that historical country, and is
therefore able to speak of it intelligently
and is able to relate facts and incidents that
can be relied upon. The book is beautifully
illustrated throughout, and contains orig-
nal poems by the author upon subjects per-
taining to the orient.
	Bible students will find the book most
helpful in the research of those wonderful
countries, of which we in this far western
land know so little. It makes a handsome
table volume besides containing so much in-
teresting and high class reading matter.
Those who are anxious to visit those far-
off lands should study its pages carefully.
They will thus learn much of the customs
and manners of that ancient race which will
be beneficial when traveling through the
much talked of Land of the Jews and the
Pyramids and Solomon’s Temple.
	We recommend the book highly, and
congratulate Mrs. Alder on the success
achieved, and trust she will find apprecia-
tion here and elsewhere.


Gertrude Atherton and Beatrice Harra-
den spoke on "The Progress of Women"
for the League for Political Education in
New York on Feb. 19. Beatrice Harraden
talked on "The Woman Movement in Eng-
land," and Gertrude Atherton told of her
experiences in California during the presi-
dential campaign.


MAP
FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
		By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board
	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25,
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies,
	VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.	Ogden, Utah

