THE GENEALOGY OF MARY LYMAN.
	Mary Lyman was born in Durham, State
of Connecticut. Her father’s name was
Samuel Lyman, her mother was Mary
Mitchell. Mary Lyman married William
Johnson, a son of Dydamus Johnson and
Rheuama Stephens Johnson. William John-
son, the husband of Mary Lyman Johnson,
moved to New York, Gennesee Co., town
of Perry, and died there. Then his father,
Dydamus Johnson, sent for the widow and
child and took them back to Connecticut,
and in two or three years the widow mar-
ried Lorenzo Johnson, a son of Dydamus
Johnson. Then Lorenzo Johnson with his
family moved to Michigan, Oakland Co.,
town of Royal Oak; in 1845 his wife was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Then in 1847 Lorenzo Johnson sold his
farm and took up his line of march West,
and came to Nauvoo, Ill. There he, too,
was baptized in the Mississippi River. He,
with his family, that spring came west as
far as Garden Grove, Iowa. The next


spring he went up to Winter Quarters; was
there one year; then the Government said
that the Saints were on the Indian Reserva-
tion, so all had to move over on the east
side of the Missouri river. So there was
three years in succession that Lorenzo
Johnson had split rails and fenced his land
and plowed and raised a crop to sustain his
family, and built houses for them to live in.
In 1853 he and family came to Utah, and
settled in Springville, Utah. He was called
on a mission to Southern Utah, but finally
settled in Monroe, Utah, where he died.
His wife and family still live there, and his
wife lives with her youngest daughter, Mrs.
Thompson Lisenbee, she being a widow
with six children, but she never married
after her husband died, but raised her family
and all were good citizens.
	Mary Lyman Johnson was well and
active for many years after her husband’s
death. She was fond of reading, which she
could do until within a few days of her
death without glasses. She was a quiet,
patient, lovely woman, and dearly loved by
her family and all who knew her. She took
to knitting bedspreads and knit all her liv-
ing children one each. She had eight chil-
dren, two boys and six girls. Three of the
family are dead. The bedspread that is at
the Fair, she knit when she was 90 years
old, and the photo was taken when she was
90 years old. She died at the age of 94,
at Monroe, Utah, and was buried there. Up
to within two weeks of her death she was
perfectly well and able to knit and read
without glasses.
				MARY A. LYMAN
Bancroft, Idaho.


