WOMEN PAST AND PRESENT.
	Here and there in the Bible the names of
women have been mentioned and to those
who have made a study of the Scriptures
some of these are in a certain sense immor-
talized in their minds.
	Eve, the mother of all living, comes first
and appeals perhaps more strongly to all
the world than any other woman ever
known. We of today think of Eve as the
highest type of beauty in the Garden of
Eden, surrounded with the most charming
and delightful trees, vines and flowers.
	Then there is Sarah, who actually con-
versed with the Lord face to face, most
wonderful to contemplate! The Lord made
her promises which were literally fulfilled.
	The poetic mind picture of Rebecca at
the well who gave pure water from her
pitcher to the thirsty traveler and his weary
camels, and manifested her simple faith in
the word of the Lord, sufficient to leave her
father's home and her own country and fol-
low the faithful servant to abide in a distant
land. How perfectly illustrative of the sim-
plicity of the lives of that ancient people!
	Miriam, the sister of Moses, who, al-
though she followed him into the wilder-
ness, did not always yield gracefully to the
counsel of, her illustrious brother. There
was also Deborah who, when Israel was
without a leader, went forth at the head of
the armies and won the battle and judged
Israel forty years and there was peace in
the land.
	Ruth was firm and steadfast through her
devotion to her mother-in-law Naomi. Ruth
whose words ring down through all time
as a motto to be repeated forever:
	“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge, thy people shall
be my people, and thy God, my God.”
	Huldah, the prophetess who dwelt in the
college in the temple, who read from the
book of the Law of the Lord, and told the
king what would befall the people if they
listened not to the words written therein.
	Queen Esther who succeeded in overrul-
ing the mandates of the king and thwarted
the purpose of those in power and found
royal favor.
	Those of the New Testament are even
more familiar. Mary and Martha are the
two most famous. We find mention made
of Anna the prophetess who dwelt in the


