THEORETICAL DANGERS AND REAL
			DANGERS.
	The militarists demand this winter three
or four new battleships, but can conjure up
no fresh danger to justify these. Their plea
is that we shall lose our place as the second
naval power if we do not provide them.
They are infatuated with the glow of a bad
eminence as is a child bragging of his
father’s having a bigger mortgage than his
neighbor’s, or a citizen in peaceful Ohio
that he has more “peacemakers in his hip
pocket” than the feudsman in the Kentucky
mountains. Unlike Germany, our country
stands in no dread of the greatest naval
power on earth with whom we are presently
to celebrate a hundred years of peace and
with whom we can have a complete arbitra-
tion compact the moment that two-thirds of
our Senate will permit. We face no dan-
gers that threaten France or Germany, yet
we are vainly ambitious to keep ahead of
them in the nations’ mad race toward bank-
ruptcy. No nation can make our boast that
“We have never yet been attacked, we be-
gan every foreign war we ever had. We
have no enemy in the wide world and we
are protected by two great oceans.”


Though standing like a giant in our se-
curity, looking at the Continental nations
which in that respect are pigmies, we tim-
idly cry out that: “We dare not lead them
on the path that all must sooner or later take,
but since we glory in leadership we will take
their downward path and go them one bet-
ter.” What matters it to these military
alarmists that our protection from fire is so
slight that we annually burn up seven times
as much as all Europe; that last year 35,000
citizens were killed and half a million
wounded in the constant industrial warfare
in which we give our toilers such feeble
weapons of defense; that every year 600,000
Americans perish needlessly. This means
that forty per cent of all who die are vic-
tims of preventable conditions—conditions
which could be changed if we cared more
for human life than for “prestige.” What
care these scaremongers for the refusal of
Congress to appropriate an addition $75,000
to our National Educational Bureau when
it pays $15,000,000 for one battleship? or
for the fact that Congress has given to the
National Children’s Bureau annually much
less than the annual cost for repairs on two
torpedo destroyers?
	Why all this folly about vain prestige and
supposititous danger in presence of the real
and awful dangers in our midst? Has the
safest country in the world the moral cour-
age to sink its poor ambitions and divert
the new expenditure asked for three new
battleships to saving the lives of citizens
who will otherwise have perished before a
year has passed?
LUCIA AMES MEAD,
Chairman Peace Dept. of
Nat. Council of Women.


