[Column 2]
	“After reading the instructions carefully,
I thought, Oh, what a great responsibility!
How can I meet it? And then the thought
immediately followed, By being humble
and prayerful.”
	“I then prayed earnestly for wisdom,
strength and time to meet the requirements
which might be made of me. For I was
only a weak mortal, subject to faults and
imperfections, but with an earnest desire to
serve my Heavenly Father.
	“Well, my companion was a younger wom-
an than myself, with several small children,
which made it difficult for her to get away;
but one bright day I called for her, helped
her put away her dinner dishes, and after
having a few words of secret prayer, we
started out.
	“Our first calls seemed very successful and
we felt quite encouraged. We received lib-
eral donations and kind invitations to call
again. But soon we found that some were
not quite so pleased to see us and it was
almost intimated that we were beggars. Oh,
how we felt. What were we to do? We
must not miss them, that would never do,
unless they required it. We must continue
our visits, but find some way to overcome
that coldness. We must show to them by
our actions, by the spirit we possessed, and
by our conversation, that we have their
welfare at heart, and not merely their pock-
etbook.
	“We resolved to try and make our con-
versations as pleasant as possible; to care-
fully avoid all criticisms; to tell them a
little of what we were doing, and kindly
invite them to the meetings, and limit the
length of our visits to the circumstances
we found prevailing in the home which we
were visiting. After a few visits we felt
that we were accomplishing our desires, and
now they all treat us very nicely.
	“And now, just to show you how our time
was taken up, I will tell you what we did
in one month. We made our regular visit
which took one long afternoon. We went
to the regular meeting to report the con-
dition of our district, so that the Presidency
should know their circumstances; for we
know it would be impossible for the Presi-
dency to visit all the teachers even, to keep
in touch with the needs of the people. That
was another afternoon. Then there was a
family of children where the mother had
been taken away. The cold wintry days
were coming on and their quilts and cloth-
ing needed repairing, so we spent another
afternoon helping with that.
	“Then there was a social given for the
benefit of the Ward House and an abund-
ance of picnic was left. This was divided
among the Relief Society teachers, and next
day we visited the sick, the aged, the
widows and the orphans, and distributed
among them the things which we thought
would be the most suitable and pleasing. A
few days after this a young mother had
several children stricken with measles. She
was almost worn out with watching them,
for one or two were very ill. I had no
small children to take the disease, so I
stayed with her three nights to partly re-
lieve her of so much care.
	“Again, I heard of one of my friends who
had a wayward child and sorrow had come
into their home. I knew the tender feel-
ings of that mother’s heart and felt it my
ditty to go and see her. Not to be inquisi-
tive nor interfering, but, if possible, to drop 
one word of comfort and encouragement;
and I believe that that visit did me as much,

[Column 3]
or more, good than it did the one in trouble.
	“Another in my beat was a young woman
who had only been married a short time. I
knew through circumstances she could not
avoid she had not had a chance to become
very well prepared for the duties of mar-
ried life, or, in other words, of housekeep-
ing and home-making; so I thought I would
call and give her a chance to ask my advice
if she needed any. I found her very much
discouraged. Her fruit bottles would break,
the fruit boil over, the preserves burn, etc.,
and she was almost beginning to think
housekeeping was an impossibility. She
soon asked me a few questions which I an-
swered as well as I could, and kindly gave
her a few timely suggestions. Then after
telling her I would willingly assist her when-
ever she desired it, I went home leaving her
feeling much better than when I called.
	“This required six afternoons, and three
nights of my time, in one month, and then
I could see so much more I would like to do,
that I felt that I had only done a small part 
of my duty, and with only eight families
in my beat.”
	When she had finished her story I asked,
“And what recompense do you get for all
this?” She said again, “Inasmuch as ye did
it unto the least, ye did it also unto me,” and
we are laying up treasures in heaven where
moth nor dust can neither corrupt nor
thieves break through and steal. There is
where we expect to get our reward.”
	I soon left her feeling that I, too, would
strive to have something laid up for the
hereafter, and never again would I be heard
to say, “Only a Relief Society teacher.”
	Now, my sisters, this is not an overdrawn
picture. These, or similar circumstances,
are around you almost every day. It is for
you to see them. To visit the sick, to en- 
courage the down-hearted, to relieve the
poor, to uplift the fallen, to discourage
malice, back-biting, and jealousy, to encour-
age virtue, purity and honesty; to cultivate
and encourage the spirit of love, charity and
union; and assist in rolling on this great
work among the mothers and in the homes
under your watchcare.
	The responsibility is yours, and it rests
with you, as teachers, how well you accept
and perform it. Upon you it depends, to
a great extent, what the meetings are, if
they are well attended and the spirit that
prevails in them; for those who come, will, 
to a certain extent, bring with them the
spirit of the home they leave.
	The officers have been placed over this
Society, not by themselves, but by those
holding the Holy Priesthood, whose right
it is to decide if they are doing their duty 
and are worthy of that position; and it is
the privilege of the presiding officers of each
association, through faith and humility, to
discern the spirit by which every one is
working that holds an office under their
direction.
	You are placed in your position as help-
meets to these presiding officers. Your re-
sponsibility is as great as theirs. On you,
also, it depends if there is want and suffer-
ing among the unfortunate, the poor, and
the aged. You are not only teachers, but
angels of mercy, ministering peace, comfort
and consolation to the broken-hearted and
bereaved; dropping a word here and there
that will gladden the hearts of the afflicted 
and make the world brighter and better for
you having been placed upon it.
				ESTHER HOUTZ.
Jan. 2, 1913.


