[Column 1]
temple and went not out day nor night. As
a child the writer recalls the fact of how
delightful she thought it would be to dwell
in a Temple.
	Perhaps it would be considered almost
sacrilege to call a woman a prophetess in
this day and yet one who knew Lucy Smith,
the mother of the Prophet Joseph, can
scarcely think of her except as a prophetess.
Her soulful eyes, even in her picture, re-
veal this fact.
	In what is termed the middle ages, wom-
en were as heroines and certainly they
achieved merited greatness of intellect and
ability even though the customs of that pe-
riod would not accord them the place of
equality with men.
	Hypatia was so learned in the ancient
Greek philosophy that she taught the men
of that time in lectures in the great halls
and temples of learning devoted only to the
higher thought, but because she was a
woman of such remarkable talent and cul-
ture, and could draw large audiences who
seemed spell-bound in her presence, she was
cruelly murdered by an infuriated mob,
dragged from her carriage on her way to
the great lecture hall in the city of Alexan-
dria and terribly abused, torn limb from
limb, and her bones burned to ashes. This
was about the middle of the fifth century.
	Sappho, the Greek muse, the greatest
writer of lyric poetry and song, was born
about a century later. She was exceeding-
ly beautiful, but her life is shrouded in mys-
tery. Research among the archives of that
famous city of Athens have brought from
obscurity her work and a few of her songs,
some of them being only snatches of mel-
ody, have been published.
	Coming down to a later day, we recall
Queen Elizabeth of England, who was fa-
mous for her executive ability. It was
during her reign that a great change came
about for all women of that period. Per-
haps Elizabeth was not a well-balanced
woman, nor was she as wise as she might
have been, yet she had great strength of
character, was an example of courage to
face difficulties and rise to the occasion
when a crisis came.
	Catherine II, Empress of Russia, is an-
other. Her womanly characteristics brought
about reforms and she will always stand as
a shining mark.
	The annals of history have only recorded
a few remarkable women, but in the later
times, when knowledge and higher educa-
tion have become more widely diffused,
many women, both in European countries
and eleswhere, have been recognized as
great benefactors of the world at large.
	Those who are acquainted with history
know of the great works of Harriet Mar-
tineau, Joan of Arc, also of Queen Louise
of Prussia, and of Madame de Stael and of
many others.
	Then Victoria, queen, empress, wife and
mother, whose example of each of these
will live while time lasts.
	The name of George Eliot must not be
omitted in mentioning the great women of
England. She was the greatest literary
woman that England has produced.
	America, ever since its settlement, has
made rapid strides upward in every great
cause for the world’s betterment. At the
time of the framing of the Constitution, Ab-
igail Adams wrote her husband that in that
important document women must be con-
sidered, proving her courage and her own

