			NEBO STAKE.
	Nebo Stake Relief Society conference
held at Salem Ward, Dec. 13, 1912.
	Morning Session, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary A. Gardner, president of
Salem Relief Society, gave a hearty wel-
come to all. President Dixon responded to
welcome given and said the Relief Society
work was progressing; all the wards but

[Column 3]
two have been visited twice this year by the
board. The reports given by the various
ward presidents were very encouraging, and
show that all are trying to do their part.
	Song, Matilda Hanks and Amy Holder.
	Bishop N. C. Christensen said the Relief
Society was surely a great help in the ward.
	Sister Pierce spoke of the great work the
teachers of the Relief Society were doing;
asked God to bless all.
	Singing. Prayer by Brother William
Gardner.
	Adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
	Singing, Anthem.
	Prayer, Brother Monk, Palmyra Ward.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Minutes of previous afternoon session
were read and accepted.
	Clara R. Evans spoke on the address of
Madam von Mountford, who had been in
the Holy Land, and spoke in an interesting
way of the birth of the Savior.
	Martha S. Kapple said that the way of the
people of the world was to make their own
families happy on Christmas, but the Latter-
day Saints thought of the poor and the mis-
sionaries as well as their own loved ones.
	Song, Mary Lamb, “Silver Threads
Among the Gold.”
	Brother Francis Hanks thought every sis-
ter should know and understand the gospel.
Spoke of the general duties that devolve up-
on all.
	Caroline Roach, member of the stake
board, read an article on Christmas-present
giving. Said it was better to give than to
receive.
	President Dixon read “A Greeting” of
President Bathsheba W. Smith to the Relief
Society sisters throughout the world, writ-
ten some time before her death. Hoped none
would feel Relief Society work a burden,
but would take new interest in the work.
Thanked the people of Salem for their hos-
pitality during conference. 
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.”
	Prayer, Brother George Hanks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					JULIA SABIN,
						Secy. Pro Tem.


