[Column 1]
people, women and children robbed of even
a shelter and the necessaries of life. Oh,
the inhumanity of our own countrymen, for
they left ruin and desolation where had
been a happy, prosperous people. Now
they scattered wherever they could find a
shelter or friend, or a crust of bread.
	My father spent the winter in Nauvoo
and here I want to bear my testimony, no
matter by whom it is denied.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith taught and
practiced polygamy, himself having five
wives whom I was acquainted with. It was
just as much a trial to us in those days as it
would be to this people today. But we
tightened our armor and made ready to
overcome our selfish desires. I have told
you of those sacred marriages in the Tem-
ple at Nauvoo (no need to repeat). But
must say the Father of us all watched over
and blessed us for striving to obey His will.
I am not denying the wavering of my will,
for when you feel the finger of scorn point-
ed your way and know you are against all
the teachings of your youth, a strong faith
must be yours to be able to overcome this
feeling.
	Many were the nights of weeping. I
must have some assurance of a higher
source to be able to go on with any degree
of comfort. I went to bed praying earn-
estly to have the right made known to me.
I then seemed to be one of the multitude of
people who evidently were sorrowing. I
felt that a glorious personage was moving
among them whispering words of inspira-
tion and comfort. Soon he came to me and
in startling distinctness these words he said
“Never change your condition or wish them
otherwise.” Today I am thankful I obeyed
that voice, it was so real to me that I felt
strengthened and comforted.
	In the year ’51 my husband was arrested,
stood trial and his sentence was, one wife
only or leave the country.
	My husband had the courage of his con-
victions and stood up to them, saying, “I
will never forsake these wives and their
little ones, so help me God.”
	But to gain time and to keep peace he put
Aunt Jemima, myself and our children into
a wagon. (This lady beside myself was
known as one of the “sister wives,” she was
one who was dearer to me than one of my
own sisters.) Through the cold we trav-
eled into another country. He hunted for
a house, but could not find a house of any
kind. A stable was found about fourteen
feet square, without doors or windows; no
place for a fire; not a friend or an ac-
quaintance called spiritual wives, looked
down upon by every passerby with sus-
picion and distrust. At this time Aunt
Jemima had two children and was in a
delicate condition, needing a loving hus-
band’s care.
	I had three little ones, the oldest was five
years old. Nervousness was my ever pres-
ent companion.
	Our husband took up the loose boards,
scraped the floor and replaced them. Made
two pole bunks, cut a little wood and left
us alone, yes, alone amongst a town full of
people. Alone when we could not help
but feel that He who knows when even
a sparrow falls. What could we do but
rely upon the Father who as you will see,
knew of all our pitiful condition.
	February came and went, we had made
no acquaintances. Father Cox did not come
as we expected. I was scared, for I knew

