[Column 2]
paper a circular letter of greetings and a
few facts concerning the benevolent and
philanthropic work done by this society, to
encourage the sisters who so willingly and
generously labor. The true enjoyment and
satisfaction that is felt by those who are
engaged in the duties that pertain to their
calling can never be estimated.
	Precious treasures are laid up in store
for those who do the bidding of their
Father in heaven. Jesus said, “Inasmuch
as ye do it unto the least of these ye do it
unto me.”
	The year past has been one of the most
beneficial in the work of this organization.
	From reports of wards we learn that tes-
timony meetings have been more frequent
and these will assuredly result in an in-
crease of faith which is most desirable if
the Saints are to accomplish the great work
prophesied of in the past. We cannot be
too much in earnest in our endeavors to
promote faith among the young.
	A great deal has been given by the so-
ciety during the past year. The famine in
China caused a great disturbance and the
Relief Society was not behind in sending
help. Liberal donations were sent to the
Mississippi flood sufferers.
	Two new stakes have been added to our
number, making sixty-five stakes in all, and
the Northwestern States Mission, with
fourteen branches, has been organized with
a Relief Society president and executive
officers at its head.
	The one serious regret is that the trou-
ble in Mexico has broken up a very pros-
perous stake of Zion. Many Relief Soci-
ety houses erected through the efforts and
exertions of the members themselves, have
been destroyed by the lawless Mexicans,
and in one instance the Relief Society
building used for a stable.
	Taken all in all, there is every reason to
congratulate the workers in the organiza-
tion, also those who contribute means and
sustain the forward movements made from
time to time for the uplift of the unfor-
tunate. The Relief Society sisters are the
ones who deserve the credit and the praise
for along these lines they work day by day,
urging the discouraged to look on the
bright side of life and wear a smiling face
even in trouble, “believing that behind every
cloud there is a silver lining.”
	We are, at any rate, an able army of
workers who stand for right and are eager
watchers for the best methods obtainable
for reaching and helping all classes.
	We realize that the movement that
sprang from one little circle of women has
grown and become strong and vigorous, for
there are over forty thousand enrolled
workers, and it requires more material,
more wisdom, to manage the affairs of so
great an organization scattered over many
lands.
	From year to year the association has
been made stronger, for younger women
have taken an interest and become enthu-
siastic in the different departments—the
mothers’ work, the domestic science and
other studies along educational lines. The
Book of Mormon has been introduced with
maps to explain the situations.
	The genealogical class is a new feature
in the routine of study, introduced during
the last year.
	Altogether these different subjects give
variety and make the meetings much more

[Column 3]
interesting and attractive, thus increasing
the number who attend and benefiting
them in an educational as well as a spiritual
way.
	There is every reason to rejoice in the
growth and excellence and improved stand-
ing of the society throughout the world,
and the outlook is hopeful for the future in-
crease in numbers and in a better under-
standing and knowledge of what is possible
for the betterment of all mankind.
	We earnestly hope that before another
annual day there may be much more ac-
complished than has been during any of the
past years.
	May peace, love and the blessings of the
Lord be and abide with you in all your un-
dertakings.
	Faithfully, your sisters and co-laborers,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Couselor
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


