[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER.
Story Read at the Relief Society Teachers’
		Reunion, Mapleton.
	One day while walking through the
streets of a small country village, I was
overtaken by a dear friend whom I had not
seen for a long time. We stopped a few
moments to exchange greetings, then
walked along together chatting pleasantly,
when suddenly I asked, “Why don’t you
come and see me sometimes as you used
to? You haxe no small children now to tie
you to your home. I should think you
could visit a little anyway.” “Well,” she
said, “I should like to, but I’m a Relief
Society teacher now and that takes about
all the time I can spare from my home.”
“Only a Relief Society teacher and no time
to visit?” I said. “How large a district do
you have to oversee?” “My companion
and I have eight homes to visit,” she an-
swered. “But,” I said, “you are only re-
quired to visit once a month and you have
only a very few poor to look after, haven’t
you?” “Yes, we are only required to visit
once a month, but here is my home, come
in and sit and rest a few moments and I
will tell you a little of how my time is
occupied.”
	Being comfortably seated in a low rocker
my friend began: “Yes, as you said, we
are only required to make regular visits
once a month, and there are only a very
few poor in our district, but you know the
Savior said, ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of these the least, my brethren,
ye have done it unto me,’ so when I was
set apart as a teacher I resolved to try and
see where my assistance was most needed,
and what good I might do. The first thing
I did was to read the instructions given by
the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first organ-
zation of this Society, so that I might un-
derstand the object he had in creating
such an organization. I found that he said
the sisters could provoke the brethren to
good works, look after the needs of the poor
and perform charitable acts; assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the community, and putting down
iniquity; visit the sick and distressed, laying
hands on them, and administering to them
if they so desired; exercising mercy to-
wards those who sin, letting kindness, char-
ity and love crown their works; for this
Society was not only to relieve the poor but
to save souls also.

