[Column 2]
wisdom, in thus standing foremost for the
cause of woman’s equality with men.
	After the Revolution and peace was re-
stored, women in America were busy with
household cares, and it was a long time
before great things were achieved by them,
but the practice of slavery in the south and
the abhorrence of it in the north provoked
dissension. A convention was called in Lon-
don and both men and women were sent as
delegates from the United States. The
women, however, were not allowed the priv-
ilege of delegates—could not take their
seats, but watched the proceedings from be-
hind curtains in the gallery. Some of the
men were loyal enough to sit with the
women.
	Out of this circumstance grew the first
woman’s rights convention in America, at
Seneca Falls, New York, July 19, 1848. The
dear old Quakeress Lucretia Mott, was the
leading spirit, being the first woman to
stand on the platform and speak for equal
suffrage. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, then on
her wedding tour, was one who stemmed
the tide of ridicule and opposition. Susan
B. Anthony, a young woman school teacher,
joined forces with the little band.
	We must not omit Margaret Fuller who,
early in the nineteenth century, stood with
the greatest men of that day for the high-
est development of woman.
	In other lines: higher education, temper-
ance, equal pay for equal work, etc., etc.,
let mention be made of Frances Willard,
whose statue stands in the hall of Congress,
Florence Nightingale, and Clara Barton,
whose life-long services for soldiers and
sailors have been honored the world over.
	Julia Ward Howe is considered by many
as the greatest woman of her time, a great
writer, speaker, poet and philanthropist.
Her “Battle Hymn of the Republic” has
won for her fame and favor wherever it
has been sung.
	Susan B. Anthony stands foremost, in
memory as the strongest minded of the
women of a century that has produced
many magnificent characters as examples
of greatness.
	Lucy Stone, whose career as a young
woman was very remarkable, and who
founded the Woman’s Journal in Boston,
over fifty years ago, deserves the gratitude
of the women of the world, for the Journal
has indeed been a blessing unto all.
	Women in the present day, who are do-
ing much in the way of achievement, both
in this and other countries, are more nu-
merous than in the past: Olive Schreiner,
in far off Africa, Ellen Key, Marie Corelli,
Sarah Bernhardt, Mme. Montford, and in
our own land, Caroline M. Severance, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, Jane Addams, May
Wright Sewall, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw, Rev. Olympia Brown, Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway, Bertha Honore Pal-
mer and Alice Stone Blackwell.
	The pioneer women of Utah faced all
sorts of difficulty with the courage of the
Pilgrim Fathers from whom many of them
were descended. One of the foremost is
Eliza R. Snow, a pioneer of 1847, a poet,
writer, and a woman of great spiritual
power. Her hymn, “O My Father,” has
been translated into many languages, and is
sung the world over. Zina D. H. Young
and her sister, Prescindia H. Kimball, pos-
sessed in a large degree the gift of healing.
Their names are household words wherever
known.

[Column 3]
	Sarah M. Kimball, one of the most pro-
gressive of the women of the west, stood as
firm for women’s equal rights with men
here in the west as Susan B. Anthony her-
self.
	These women who have been men-
tioned stand as types of others who have
given their best efforts for the elevation of
the human race; philanthropists in very
deed also, standing for purtity and right-
eousness.
	Now is the time for the younger women
to come forth and take hold and they must
not be “weary in well doing.” The way has
been paved through adverse circumstances
and now, in the enlightenment of the world
with all the new advantages they can gain
the goal for which all of these noble charac-
ters have been striving.


