[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Winning the Man's Mother Ida Stewart Peay]
WINNING THE MAN'S MOTHER. 203 cried again with incredulous astonishment, "your mother isn't coming!" "Why no, you see, Louie, she couldn't leave the quilt that  "  a gravely puzzled look through which the gleam of way "But" a new discovery was slowly struggling, showed plainly in the mobile face of the slender matron, "but  a  " she protested recalling something  "your mother had just put a quilt on the last time I sent for her and also, now I come to think of it, the time before and the time before that it was, let me see, something she couldn't leave  I forget now. And, really, she hasn't been here since  a  why, since you went into business for yourself, Jim  " Lucy Mackson searched her husband's face with awakening perception "I wonder if she's  " then remembering the guest in the room and that this was a family affair she ended vaguely  "if anything's wrong," though her eyes kept on questioning. "O no, of course not," Jim assured her, a quality of positiveness in his tone that was clearly forced. "Everything is all right, and say, I'll scamper over and engage your mother for the morrow's guest of honor, what do you say?" but without waiting for her assent or the contrary, he took the kitchen steps at a bound and fled through the garden to the next house. His wife gazed absently after him, a deepening suspicion gradually replacing her mystified amazement. The unwitting caller, to relieve the tension and having jumped at an obvious conclusion, vouchsafed a little sympathy. "It's a good thing your mother lives near you, if your husband's people are going to treat you so coldly." Lucy Mackson's fresh flushed face showed no sign of having heard friend 'mis threw remark. She seemed out another line. lost in curious speculation. Her "I'm sure you've been splendid to Jim's folks. You've had dinners and dinners for them and entertained them royally"  she warmed to her subject  "especially his mother. And now for her to act like this! I've noticed none of them have been near you for ages." She waited a moment but as her hostess still ignored the bait to unburden her wrongs, persisted, "Oh, I know these mother's-in-law  had one myself. / was like you, I took Harry's folks right into my arms, you know, and for a time we got along famously. But Harry's mother wanted to manage our affairs and when we deliberately started on a course she did not approve she began to act queer. I didn't pay any attention to it for and more a long time. At cooler treated last she than wouldn't come I went frost when our house any see her. To cap the climax she turned all the family against me, then my patience gave out and I broke diplomatic relations with the 3)
 pack of them." She gurgled amusedly at the recollection then added. "We haven't visited with Harry's mother for three years, and after all those strivings, snubs, disappointments and heartaches, I tell you, it seems good." Mrs. Mackson was listening intently, now, astonishment and wonder in her sensitive face. "But doesn't Harry miss his mother awfully?" she marveled in a calamity stricken tone. "Well, maybe does, hut it can't be helped. We've got to live our lives in our own way, and if it doesn't suit her why we can't be blamed. She cannot expect to direct me nor Harry either. Then we have my mother." "Yes, that is lovely for you  but what must it mean to a man to be estranged from the old home with its memories and associations and particularly from the love of his dear, faithful mother? And she must be dreadfully unhappy never to see her boy!" Lucy Mickson seemed pondering aloud, her face a study in sympathetic abstraction. "It's her own fault," sighed the neighbor woman. "I did my best. And my advice to you is the sooner you give up trying to get along with them now they are set against you  which is plain to everybody  the better for your peace of mind." They talked on for a few minutes then the visitor took her leave and Mrs. Mackson, her joyous preparation at a standstill, stood in perturbed, puzzled, idleness for a long time. Presently there was a faint sound somewhere in the interior of the little bungalow that roused her. She hastily washed her hands and tripped out of the kitchen, her young face illuminated by such a smile of glorious anticipation one would have thought her going to meet a lover  except that she did not stop before the mirror to smooth her hair. In a trice she was bending over a daintily draped basket from which now issued the soft, velvety cooing of a little babe. "Mother's idol!" breathed the woman rapturously, lifting the pink and white morsel lovingly to her breast. "Mother's precious idol!" "That's a new one," laughed the husband over her shoulder having tiptoed in to surprise her. "Mary calls her infant 'lambkin' ;Allie says 'honey' ; Vera, 'lovey' ; Eva, 'pet' ; and oh, I've heard many others but 'precious idol' is a new one. Trust my Louie for being original," he laughed softly and put his arm rejectingly around the new mother and their first born. "But isn't he precious!" cried the wife as the baby just old enough to recognize them held out his chubby arms and jumped gaily from one adoring parent to the other, claiming their whole attention. "Trust think, dearest," there was a touch of sentiment WINNING THE MAN'S MOTHER.  205 in the woman's voice, "you were once a little baby  love like this  your mother's joy! Think of all you have been to her  and she to you. And now you have left her  " "It's life," defended the man philosophically, but his memory flew back with a sense of pleasure to the old home and the never to-be-forgotten companionship of his devoted mother. "But you can be all in all to her still, a wonderful comfort in her riper year if  oh. I don't ever want any woman to take my son away from me," emotionalized that new mother almost tearfully as she clasped her baby boy tightly her. "You want him to marry, don't you?" asked Jim still on the defensive. "Certainly, but I want to make room in my heart for a daughter, if she will come in, and so keep my boy." "Sure," murmured young Mackson, but with no assurance and the depressed look stole over his face again. "Now, Jim," began Lucy, when the husband ensconced in the big rocker had pulled both mother and babe tenderly down upon his knee, "Tell me what is the matter with your mother? And what is wrong with your sisters? Now I come to go over things in my mind, I realize not one in your family have been here for ever such a long time. What is the matter? "O, nothing, nothing is wrong, Lome, that I know of," he replied rather lamely while the dejection in his face deepened. Lucy questioned and questioned but Jim would not admit any trouble. He just could not bring himself to tell his loving little wife about the storm of protest that was brewing among his people over their financial ventures. He was well aware that the whole family blamed Lucy for the initiative or for having driven their own favorite lad into debt and its burdens. He also knew they had determined to have nothing more to do with her. "Let me see, if I remember correctly, none of your folks have been here since before Arbor Day, right after that you went into business for yourself," Lucy began to formulate a theory detective-wise, "I wonder if your mother is worrying about us not accomplishing womanlike intuition Jim undertaken we 'have what pinning down. ," she guessed with "Well, she may be some," the husband admitted slowly. "Poor dear!" "But, of course," the man meditated aloud a trifle^ sorrow to fully, "we have to " plan for ourselves, now, mother can't expect  . "N-no, not exact  " interrupted the wife, also meditating. "She really hasn't any right  " "She has a right to be happy and comfortable about her boy," Mrs. Mackson broke in again this time spiritedly while she pressed 
 her own child closer. "O, Jim, it's a shame to have your dear mother fretting about you and thinking you are going to fail." Then springing to her feet with sudden decision she exclaimed. "1 have a plan  er  did mother say she would come over?" "No, she wasn't at home." "Then we'll have her some other time. Tomorrow you must get your mother over here." "Dearie," Jim spoke sadly, "I don't see how it is why it is I don't understand  but I know for a certainty that she positively will not come." "Not under ordinary circumstances," allowed the wife, "but you must bring her. anyway. Use strategy, anything, but bring her. Now I'll leave that part with you, so prove your resourcefulness. I'll take care of the rest." Thus put upon his mettle the young husband determined to carry out his commission if such a thing were possible. He began to rack his brains for a feasible device to kidnap his apostatizing parent for he knew, having tried sympathetically for three months, he could never overcome her prejudice sufficiently to get her to willingly visit the daughter-in-law who was held in such gross disfavor. It was twelve o'clock the next day, just a half an hour in advance of the time set for the dinner, before he really hit upon an acceptable course, even then he was in serious doubt. However, as the whistles shrilled for noon he rushed out of his new grocery store  the innocent cause of such offense  hired a taxi and dashed up to his mother's door in tremendous haste. The elder Mrs. Mackson was sitting before the fire in the living room thoughtfully knitting  there was no quilt on the frames. Her son burst in breathlessly. It did not require any a cling for him to appear agitated for it was with real trepidation that he began, "Mother, I wonder if I can get you to do me a favor?" Throwing an arm about her shoulders he kissed her with genuine emotion. "Why, my son," exclaimed the devoted and anxious parent in tremulous concern, "whatever is it?" The question was superfluous. As a matter of fact she knew the crisis had arrived, the crisis she had been dreading and fully anticipating. James had come to ask her to help him some way to save his credit, or home, or business, or all three. His striving wife with her million dollar ideas had brought him to ruin this soon. Poor boy! "Whatever is it, James, my son? You know I will do anything on earth for you," she cried returning his embrace with the tenderest sympathy. WINNING THE MAN'S MOTHER. 207 Jim felt like a cad. But, was it not to keep this loved one in his life that he was practicing such deception? "Why, mother dear, it isn't anything serious," he assured her looking the picture of anxiety and glancing hastily around as though hunting for something "I I haven't time to explain now but will you get on your wraps and come with me? Here" his searching eye discovered her old grey shawl, the old grey shawl of childhood memories he held out "this and a fascinator will do no one will see you, I have a closed car outside. Will you come?" "Of course, I'll come," vowed the dear soul, trembling like an aspen leaf, while her son kicking himself for a scoundrel hustled her into the closed conveyance. The chauffeur drove like mad and before there was time for the exchange of a. dozen words the short distance was covered and they stopped in front of the little bungalow. Expecting some crushing shock the lady followed her son into the very presence of the vexatious daughter in-law. -ii That dainty little creature was in the act of putting the last of a steaming and savory meal on the dining table. "Ah, we're just in time," cried Jim while his wife ran up and embraced the elder woman heartily. "Oh, how good it is to have you here again, Mother Mackson. We haven't seen you for so long we are starving^ for a visit with you. Now sit right up and have dinner with us." "But James," the deluded woman had a notion to act outraged and to decline ungraciously. She even thought of speaking her mind on the spot. "Mother, will you do me the favor to eat with us?" Jim coaxed, a boyish mother-hunger in his eyes that was responsible for a reluctant capitulation. With unsmiling face she permitted Lucy to take the old grey shawl and scarf while Jim put her lovingly down at the head of the table. During the meal the man and wife kept up a steady flow of light conversation. They were jolly and mischievous and told such funny little jokes that the elder Mrs. Mackson could not possibly freeze up but instead actually indulged in a few unwilling chuckles. Jim persuaded her to acknowledge his wife a remarkable band at roasting fowl and Lucy reminiscence about the good things Jim's "mother to used to make" and of which she had partaken with such pleasure when visiting at Jim's old home. When the repast was over the man hustled around evidently preparing to go back to work. His mother stiffened slightly and looked about for her things. "Well, James," she said in the manner of one announcing readiness for some solemn procedure. 
 Jim looked at her in enquiring surprise. "You said you wished me to do you a favor, I'm ready  " "Oh," said her son as though suddenly enlightened, "sure, sure I did  I wanted you to break bread with my wife and me, and you can not imagine how much good it has done us. Now I'm going to leave you to visit with Louie and Jim Junior this afternoon and after a while I'm coming around with an automobile to take you home. You musn't leave on any account until I get back." With this rapid-fire explanation he gained the door and in another second dashed out, shaking his head doubtfully when out of sight over the greater task to be undertaken by the little unapproved helpmate. Yes, it was the wife's turn now and her heart, too. sank with misgivings as she preceived the renewed uncompromising manner of her mother-in-law. The elder Mrs. Mackson was, indeed, dumb-founded and stood angrily staring first at the door which had closed behind her son and then at the flushed face of his young wife. At last she managed to speak. "If you'll get my shawl  James wouldn't wait for me to find frigid, anything else  I'll be going. T can't stay today," her tone was Lucy had to think quick. "Oh, please don't hurt Mother Mackson," she pleaded. "I had a bit of news I wanted to tell you. You remember Vira Grey, don't you? Here, have this rocker, baby and I will sit on this stool beside you. You know Yira married Jack Neiber  well, they've just had the worst luck." "Gone to the wall  I knew they would," was the mother-inlaws mental comment but she said nothing aloud, just permitted Lucy to put her into the easy chair where she sat interestedly listening in spite of herself but maintaining a very stern countenance. "Yes, they have failed utterly  everything is gone," the hostess hastened on. "You know, he had as much as ten thousand dollars worth of property from his uncle when he married Vira but they have gone through it." The mother-in-law's ire and indignation rose almost to the point of boiling water over this revelation, but she was thinking of her own extravagant daughter-in-law instead of Yira Neiber. She winked hard to keep back the angry tears. Lucy proceeded. "I know just how it happened. Yira and T have been life long friends, you know  " At this remark Mrs. Mackson, the elder, unconsciously nodded (these two girls had been friends, also the town belles and were alike in that both had been reared in considerable luxury). "You see"  Lucy chattered on  "after Yira and Jack were married they went right in for pleasure and WINNING THE MAN'S MOTHER. 209 social leadership. First they spent three idle months on a honey moon trip. Then, Vira would have a much finer home than their means warranted. Next they went to the Exposition and squandered a lot of money. Since then they have entertained lavishly, they have a car, a box at the theater, and Vira has dressed exquisitely. Jack told us that from the first they had spent a good deal more every month than he earned and he had to borrow and so had mortgaged all his possessions. He was working for a salary, a large one, to be sure, but last week he lost his position because of neglecting his duties for auto trips, hunting excursions and other society calls, and now they haven't anything  not even a baby," the new mother's voice was gentle with compassion as she tenderly hugged her little one. "Another sad thing about it is that they cannot be comforted by the love and sympathy of Jack's mother as they have become estranged from her, that leaves her, too, to grieve over her boy's failure alone and disconsolate. Isn't it all too bad?" This last deliberate parallel of her case with Jack Neiber's mother was almost too much for the abducted guest, she allowed herself no comment but her face was convulsed with the pain of self pity. "Now Jim and I " Lucy began her real plea  "are trying to lay a foundation for sound financial strength." The first Mrs. Mackson gasped at such audacity then swallowed the very gall of bitterness, her nose turned up, the corners of her mouth down, and her eyes burned with contemptuous unbelief. The younger woman went on. "When we were first married we didn't take a trip but reserved Jim's savings to buy our furniture. Then as Jim was making $90.00 per month we decided we could build this little house. It costs us $22.00 a month to live here and having borrowed from a building society the place will be paid for in the next eight years. That left us $68.00 each month for living expenses and by being economical we have managed nicely." Mrs. Mackson senior's lip curled more scornfully but with sweet oblivion Lucy continued, "But Jim's position at Baker & Co. was precarious. As their trade expanded Jim's work doubled, he was really being imposed upon, and if he complained he would be fired. Anyway, Baker's son-in-law was qualifying for the place and Jim knew it was only a matter of time until he would be hunting another job. The poor boy was just sick to be more independent! Well, since he had worked for Baker's eight years and had held every position from delivery boy to head bookkeeper he felt that he knew the grocery business pretty thoroughly and when he talked of starting a store of his own I encouraged him  I tell you, I believe in Jim. To be sure, we hadn't any capital and were in debt for our home but because he was
