[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

The Home Science Department have arranged three demonstrations during the Relief Society Conference days for the benefit and interest of our members and visitors: Fireless Cooking by electric stove. Wednesday, April 4th, A:30 p. m. Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. Fireless Cooking by gas stove: Thursday, April 5th, 4:30 p. m. Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. Milk Demonstration. Food for babes and young children: 5:30 p. m. Fourth Floor. Bishop's Building. Notes from the Field. Bx the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman. Relief Society Conference. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, April 4th and 5th, 1917. Two general session? will be held in the Assembly Hall, on Wednesday, April 4th, at 10:00 A. M.. and 2:00 P. M. All officers and Relief Society workers are invited to be in attendance. Two officers' meetings will be held on Thursday at 10 00 A. M., and 2:00 P. M., in the Auditorium on the fourth door of the Bishop's Building. The officers' meetings will be limited to stake officers, stake board members, and stake representatives. REORGANIZATIONS. Woodruff Stake. The Woodruff stake Relief Society was reorganized on January 28th, 1917. Mrs. Phebe A. Brough and her counselors who have labored faithfully for so many years, were honorably released, and the following sisters were selected to take their places: President, Zina Taggart; 1st Counselor, Evelyn Starkey, 2nd Counselor, Ida Fowkes. Boise Stake. In a letter from Heber O. Hale, we learn of the reorganization of the Boise stake Relief Society. On account of the failing health of Mrs. Mary A. Rawson. it was deemed advisable to relieve her of her duties as stake president. Mrs. Rawson has labored zealously during the three years that she has held this position, traveling on an average of 5,000 miles a year to visit the numerous branches in this large and scattered stake. From a beginning of 7 societies, she had built up 17 active organizations in the stake. Mrs. Rawson is, at present, in California, where she has gone in the hope of regaining her health. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, who has been one of the most capable and intelligent stake secretaries in the Relief Society, has been chosen to take the place of Mrs. Rawson. Following is a complete list of the new stake officers: President, Laura J. Adamson; 1st Counselor, Mrs. E. Pearl Adamson; 2nd Counselor, Mrs. Charlottie B. Smith; Secretary. Jennie Thomas; Asst. Secretary, Mrs. Minnie Rowe; Treasurer, Mrs. Elna L. Stanford; Genealogical Committee, Mrs. Bessie G. Hale and Mrs. Ida Fleming; other Board members. Mrs. Hariette Sparks, Mrs. 218 RELIED SOi II-.IY MAGAZINE. Mary A. Hellewell, Mrs. Helena Jensen, and Mrs. Matilda Ingebretsen. Bingham Stake. At Idaho Falls, Sunday, February 25th, a reorganization of the stake Relief Society took place. Mrs. Elvira C. Steel was honorably released as president of the Relief Society in this stake, and Mrs. Mamie Harris Laird of Idaho Falls was selected to fill the vacancy. The reports from Bingham stake, have acquainted us with the splendid work done by Sister Steele and her officers. They have been always ready and willing to respond to any call that has been made upon the society. During the year of 1915, the Relief Society collected and donated $513.30 for electric light fixtures for the new Latter-day Saint Auditorium at Idaho Falls. Southern States. In the report recently received from the Southern States, we learn that during the year, five new branches have been organized, with the following officers: Catauba, S. C. Mrs. Lucy J. Starnes, President; Lamison, Ala., Lila Sealy, President; Raytown, Miss., Dora Ray. President; Society Hill. N. C, Evalene Wenberg. President; Xenia. Ohio, Lydia A. Schultz, President. The Lamanite sisters in Catauba Indian nation, have been organized into a society, and are very diligent in visiting the sick and caring for the poor. In many of the branches, the Relief Society members have raised funds through the sale of quilts and other articles with which they have purchased sacrament sets for the Church. Western States Mission. An interesting letter has come to us from Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, who was recently appointed President of the Relief Society in the Western States Mission. Two societies have lately been organized  one at Trinidad, Colorado, and the other at Omaha, Nebraska. This makes five societies, in all, in this mission, the other three being located at Denver, Pueblo, and Alamosa. Mrs. Herrick has visited all the branches during the last year. From the size of the subscription list sent in, we judge that it Colorado members are very much interested in the Magazine. In Memoriam. Provo City, Utah: At the close of the last year Mrs. Joanna Holister Patten of Provo City, Utah, was called to the great beyond. Mrs. Patten was born March 18, 1833, in Caroline, Tompkins Co., N. Y. Her life has been full of interesting experiences as she has been closely identified with the Church since