[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Forty persons, mostly children, were killed by a gas main explosion in Chicago in February. Prohibition by legislative enactment is now accomplished in Utah; the next move is to secure it by constitutional provision. A Cuban rebellion in February threatened to require American intervention, but finally was suppressed without this becoming necessary. An Ogden Boy, Leroy Leishman, has invented a process for transmitting photographic reproductions over telegraph lines. Foodstuffs continue to go up in price, potatoes reaching the figure of six cents a pound, in Salt Lake City, in March. Intermountain railway traffic was effectually blocked for several days in February in and around Salt Lake City, steam and electric roads being tied up by snowdrifts. Armenia has lost by death one-third of its population during the present war, and the remaining two-thirds have been reduced to the verge of starvation. Utah troopers near Arivaca, Arizona, were attacked by Mexican bandits in February, but drove them off after a sharp fight lasting several hours. None of the troopers were injured. Two States out of Idaho is a question to be put up to the voters there at the next election. West Virginia voters have a similar proposition to deal with. A labor agitator named Mooney has been convicted in San Francisco, in connection with the bomb explosion at a preparedness parade there last summer, when ten persons were killed and forty injured. Munition factory explosions occurred in England and Germany in February. The heaviest loss of life was at a German factory, where over 1.000 women and girls were killed. CURRENT TOPICS. 221 German officials are now denouncing America as, next to England, the worst enemy of Germany. Evidently there is some irritation there at the patience of this country in having its rights trampled on. Neutral nations have been aroused to an intense feeling against what they unanimously term Germany's barbarism in unrestricted submarine war in attacking and sinking without warning unarmed passenger ships, and destroying the lives of men. women and children of nations not at war with the Teutons. Mormon colonists in Mexico have chiefly left that country, abandoning their homes there to Mexican bandits. Three Mormon colonists were seized at Hachita, New Mexico, carried over into Mexico and murdered, by Mexicans. King Alfonso of Spain was the victim of an attempted assassination in February, by an effort to wreck the train on which he was traveling. The obstruction placed on the track was discovered, however, in time to prevent disaster. Food-riots, owing to high prices which many people were unable to pay, occurred in New York, Philadelphia and Chicago in February. This is a beginning of troubles, as the food question in America promises to overshadow the war problem. Turkish troops at Kut-El-Amara, Mesopotamia, suffered a disastrous defeat at the hands of the British during the last days of February. This, with the assembling of large English and French forces in Greece, foreshadows an attempted grinding process about to begin for Turkey. Three Hundred American sailors, taken from various ships by German raiders, are held as prisoners in Germany, despite the requests of this country for their release. This, under international law, is an act of war against the United States. The "Laconia," one of the largest ocean-going steamships, was sunk without warning on the night of February 26, while enroute from New York to Great Britain, by a German submarine. Thirteen lives were lost, among them being ten Americans, two of these being women passengers. This inexcusable breach of international law is an act of war on the part of Germany against the United States, and hastened the request of President Wilson that Congress give him the power to protect the lives of Americans on the high seas. Social Work. DRESS To All Women Officers and Teachers in the Church. Dear Sisters: Some months ago the Presidency of the Church addressed a letter to the General Boards of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, calling attention to present conditions of immodesty in dress and social conduct, and asking that these organizations take up the matter with the women of the Church. The communication of the Presidency on these subjects was published in the editorials of the January (1917) issue of the Relief Society Magazine, the Young Woman's Journal, and The Children's Friend. We trust that if you have not already done so, you will give these editorials careful consideration. We call your attention, also, to the editorial on this subject, by President Joseph F. Smith, in the Improvement Era for December, 1916. Acting in accordance with the instructions therein given the General Boards of the three women's organizations prepared and adopted a resolution on dress. This resolution was sent to the Priesthood authorities in each stake, and to all women stake officers. The latter have signified their willingness to adopt the same. The first part of the resolution applies to our sisters who have been through the Temple. These sisters have received special instructions from those in authority; therefore, they know their duty in regard to the proper wearing of their clothing. The last clause of the resolution applies to those of our girls and women who have not been through the Temple, many of whom feel that they are under no restrictions in the matter of dress. They thoughtlessly follow the "fads" of fashion. Many of them wear sleeveless gowns and such extremely low-cut bodices and short skirts at evening parties as to bring the blush of embar as meant to the check of the truly modest man or woman. Whi1e the custom of wearing such gowns may be thought proper in some circle* of fashionable society, it is unfitting that the daughters of the Latter-day Saints should be thus attired. An evening* dress may be beautiful and becoming to the wearer and yet be free from objectionable features. The dress should be made to cover the shoulder and upper arm: the round c: V neck should not be extreme; and the skirt not immodestly SOCIAL WORK. 223 short. Very sheer material, while beautiful in itself, is not in good taste unless worn with underclothing which properly covers the body. Inappropriate street and afternoon costumes are frequently worn. Extremely short skirts and blouses with low-cut V's are manifestations of poor taste and indicate a lack of modesty on the part of the wearer. Blouses made of georgette crepe or other transparent materials are not considered in good form by the best authorities on dress unless worn with a suitable underslip. It is pleasing to note that many of the latest under bodices are made with a prettily-designed short sleeve. The desired result in these matters will be difficult to accomplish without the co-operation of the dress-maker and home seamstress who have much influence in determining the styles to be worn in any community. Their assistance should therefore be sought in bringing about these necessary improvements. It is surprising that many young women adopt extreme methods of dressing, under the mistaken impression that such will add to their attractiveness. Good men the world over admire the decently dressed girl or woman. At the officers' meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. June Conference, 1916, President Joseph F. Smith made the following statement: "I do not think there is a decent man in this city nor in the world who would not give his decision unqualifiedly in favor of the lady who was modestly and neatly dressed in apparel designed to shield rather than to expose herself to public gaze, as against those who go about the streets half clad. I give that as my belief. I judge men by myself, to some extent, at least." Thinking men and women everywhere are giving the matter of dress serious consideration. Ideals of true modesty are being revived. At a recent gathering of women in New York City, dress was one of the principal topics treated. Among others these sentiments were expressed: "Are you  a woman  willing to go before your Maker and be judged in the clothes you have on? Do the fathomless V of your blouse, and the little girl skirt, most important symbol in the shorthand fashions of the hour, express your character? Do the gown and the hat you wear at this moment indicate your thoughtful intelligence? * * * * * Good women should have fashions of their own. (We) don't believe in appearing dowdy or queer, but (we) do insist that a woman's clothes should express her character  not her lack of character." Latter-day Saint women should be leaders in this movement. Officers, especially, should set the example. Upon each officer and teacher rests an individual responsibility to manifest 
 her willingness to dress according; to proper ideals. Each one should ask herself: Am I measuring up, in this respect, to the highest standards of modesty and to my professions as a member of the Church of Christ. INSTRUCTIONS ON SOCIAL WORK. By request of the General Authorities of the Church, the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations have unitedly prepared the following instructions on social work. These have been approved by the hirst Presidency and are now submitted to Presidents of Stakes, Bishops of Wards, and auxiliary organizations, with the request that they be adopted in the stakes and wards throughout the Church. SOCIAL COMMITTEES. 1. ORGANIZATION.  In stakes and wards social committees composed of men and women shall be appointed by presidents of stakes and bishops of wards to take charge of all social activities. The members of these committees should be selected with a view to their particular fitness for