Written by Emma Schrimshaw. Detroit, Mich. Presidents of National Womens Relief Society in the Missions of the United States and Mexico. 
 Relief Society Work in the Missions Susa Young Gates. It has proven an impossible task to search definite historical data concerning the organization of Relief Society work in the various missions of this Church. Such records as may have been kept of work done have been lost both to the various mission headquarters, and certainlv nothing exists in the General Secretary's office of this Society prior to 1913. There may be such reports hidden away in the inaccessible columns of the old Woman's Exponent, but this office is without even this source of prolific information. As a matter of fact, during the early years of the last century and the first decade of this century, mission presidents themselves were transitory and were changed more or less frequently. Wives or other women relatives sometimes accompanied their husbands or brothers. It is undoubtedly true that branch Relief Societies existed in many missions. Years ago they sometimes took up the study to the Y. L. M. I. A. guide lessons, or the meetings were conducted partly as a social organization with a view to making friends and proselyting in whatever mission they might be organized. The Utah elders usually had charge of these branch organizations, although at times there were also local presidents of the Relief Societies appointed by the elders. Since the advent of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman into the Secretaryship we have very clear and definite reports from these and all other missions; and since that time it may also be stated that the miss-on presidents everywhere in the United States have had permanent settlement; their wives, as a rule, have been appointed by the General Board as presidents of the mission Relief Societies in each diocese, and the splendid results which have followed this organized effort proves the need therefor in the years that have passed when such unified effort was not forthcoming. 
 European Relief Society Work. The first Relief Society work done away from the body of the Church probably was done in Great Britain, but we have no record concerning: it. A Relief Society branch at White Chapel in the London conference was organized March 4, 1874. Meetings were held in London, Liverpool and accompanied other large English centers. When Dr. Romania B. Penrose her husband, President Charles W. Penrose, to Great Britain, in 1907-1911, she undertook a very extensive movement in the British Isles in Relief Society work. She traveled a great deal, organized branches, visited them frequently to cheer and encourage the workers, and accomplished a very remarkable work which has been of lasting benefit for the women of the old country. There were only three branches  Leicester, Norwich and Liverpool  when she went there, but she organized 35 or 36 branches the first year in England and Ireland, and before she left had organized 49 or 50. Her talks were mainly to mothers about how to train girls and teach them hygienic principles and truths. Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who accompanied her husband, President Hyrum M. Smith, when he was sent to preside over the European mission, was' made mission president of the Relief Society in 1914, and she found the splendid work done by Dr. Penrose had fallen off materially for lack of a directing head; but with her customary diligence and zeal she at once set about rejuvenating the old branches and organized a good many more. Under her the first year there were reported 42 organizations in Great Britain, with 507 members and an average attendance of 82 per cent; over 1,000 visits were made to the sick, and $450 was donated to the poor in that year. In 1915 all of the various European Relief Society branches in the different countries were grouped under her charge. There were reported that year in the European Mission, 99 branches of the Relief Society, with 21,046 officers and members. The Netherlands Mission had nine branches, the Scandinavian 18, the Swedish 12, and the Swiss and German 12. The Netherlands Mission held meeting with a membership of 172; the Scandinavian membership was 460, the Swedish 256, and the Swiss and German 527. When the war broke out Mrs. Smith rose nobly to the occasion and the record of her work, especially in England, was given in these pages on her return from that country. There was distributed under her charge, several thousand dollars contributed by the Salt Lake Temple sisters for the relief of the war sufferers; while the list of war activities carried on under her direction was enormous. The Relief Society of Great Britain still carries forward its charitable work, although no one as yet has been appointed to take immediate charge of the European Relief Society work under President George F. Richards who succeeded President Hyrum M. Smith. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 367 The reports of the work, however, are most encouraging, considering the circumstances. Of course, nothing can be heard of the work in the German Relief Societies, although we may well believe they are not idle nor disbanded. BROOKLYN CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY Eastern States Mission. Eastern States Mission. For many years Relief Society work has been carried on in New York City, but we have no record of the same. In 1915 Miss Margaret Edward, one of our missionary girls, was appointed to take charge of the Relief Society work there. Under the direction of President Monson five branches of the Society were organized with 75 officers and members, with that faithful local Relief Society president, Mrs. Bertha Eccles Wright, setting the pace in New York City. In 1917 ten branches had been organized and they disbursed $1,147. Red Cross activities and conservation were the occupation of the hour the past year. Various branches put up 2,100 quarts of fruit; made 27 quilts, 87 pillows; and 15 members of the Society are Red Cross members. During the last year Miss Elizabeth Thomas was appointed to take charge of the work. Her recent report follows: "The Relief Society of Brooklyn Conference meets every 
 Thursday afternoon at the Mission Home, 165 Gates avenue. All are grateful that such a beautiful, comfortable home is at the disposal of the sisters. The meetings are fairly well attended and the lessons are being conducted in a most profitable manner. Just before the Christmas holidays a very successful bazaar was held by the Relief Society of this conference, which was a success both financially and socially. The sisters are to be commended for the splendid way in which they supported this undertaking, RELIEF SOCIETY AT LYNN, MASS., EASTERN STATES MISSION. also the loyalty shown by the Saints and friends deserves approval of all who are interested in the growth of this great work. The net receipts from the bazaar amounted to $127.51, which we consider most remarkable for the first attempt. Reports from the ten organizations of the mission show that the sisters are very much interested in the work and that the Relief Society is fast becoming a factor for good in the homes as well as in the communities. In many cases the sisters from the West who are in these Eastern cities, serve as a means of support to the organizations. We are also pleased to note that our sisters are interesting neighbors and friends who are becoming ardent investigators. Our members in the missions are ever anxious to give unto others the precious truths which they have received. "The seventy-sixth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was very fittingly observed by the societies of the Eastern States Mission. The reports which have come in show a very marked improvement among the members in enthusiasm RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 
 toward the work and a knowledge of the workings and purpose of this great woman's organization. The conference and branch presidents very willingly turned over the regular sacrament meeting time to the sisters and very interesting and instructive programs were rendered. In the Brooklyn conference two meetings were held, one at Brooklyn and the other at New York. At Brooklyn the services were presided over by Second Counselor PITTSBURG RELIEF SOCIETY, WITH ELDER THOMAS LOW Eastern States Mission 
 Mary G. Byard with Sister Elva Chipman conducting the exercises. 'The Organization and History of the Relief Society,' was given by President G. D. Macdonald; 'Purpose and Growth,' by President Ezra C. Knowlton; 'A Report of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission,' by Sister Elizabeth Thomas. Musical numbers were given by Sisters Elva Chipman and Venna Monson, Elders Ray Lyman and Del Mar Egbert. A very appropriate reading was given by Sister Grace Johnson. President Bertha Eccles Wright presided over the meeting at New York, giving 'The Organization and History of the Relief Society;' Sister Marie Sheranian, 'The Activities and Growth.' President Walter P. Monson, in a few remarks, paid high tribute to the noble women who have worked so untiringly for the development of the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Sisters Emma Lucy Gates, Ellen Thomas, Lilly Shipp, Mae Anderson and Mabel Borg Jenkins delighted the audience with vocal, violin and piano solos." Northern States Mission. The Northern States has a peerless organization, complete to the last detail. Its unsurpassed activities are equaled only by the perfect record kept of them. This mission had no regular Relief Society organization, so far as is known, until the Presidency of Asael H. Woodruff in 1902-04. President Woodruff organized a local branch in Chicago with Sister Dennison as President and Sisters Hacks and Warder as Counselors. The work, however, EVANSVILLE, IND., RELIEF SOCIETY RED CROSS AUXILIARY Northern States Mission RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 371 was not taken up to any extent until the Presidency of German E. Ellsworth, whose wife, Mary Smith Ellsworth, a natural leader and organizer, set in operation a series of remarkable activities and Relief Society developments. The report follows: "In August, 1904, when President Ellsworth took charge of the Northern States Mission, there were three Relief Societies, located at Chicago, Milwaukee and Rock Island, and two lady missionaries  Sisters Hedwig Stauffer and Lydia Sieffner. During the following ten years, sixty-eight lady missionaries labored in the Northern States Mission, and Societies were organized at Flint, Michigan; Winnipeg, Canada, and Decatur, Illinois, with Mothers' classes in thirteen other places where there were a sufficient number of members or investigators to justify the organization. Outlines of various stakes in Zion were subsequently adapted by Sister Mary Smith Ellsworth to the mission needs. COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA, RELIEF SOCIETY. Northern States Mission. In 1914, when The Relief Society Bulletin was published, this mission at once took up the lessons as therein outlined, modifying them to suit the needs of converts and investigators. The mission outlines were also continued as these dealt more especially with the restoration of the gospel. In 1915 the following Mothers' classes were organized into Relief Societies: Roseland, and University, Chicago; Bloomington, Peoria, and Springfield, Illinois; Minneapolis, and St. Paul, Minnesota; Grand Rapids, Flint, and Detroit, Michigan; Council Bluffs, Iowa; Evansville, Indianapolis, Muncie, and Bicknell, In-
 Diana; and Winnipeg, Canada, with a total enrollment of 276 and an average attendance of 175. Several of the Societies held work meetings in the afternoon at the home of the President, and class meetings in the evening at the home of a friend or investigator. In Winnipeg, Canada, the sisters met twice a week, where they did Red Cross work, the material being supplied by the Government; they also met once a week where they followed the class outline. One hundred and six genealogical and one hundred and four family records were prepared, and one hundred sixty-one subscriptions to the Magazine were secured. In visiting the homes of Relief Society sisters we found many magazines and tracts which had been given by the missionaries; 2,706 tracts were thus distributed; 4,188 gospel conversations were held; 511 names for baptism and 36 for endowments were sent to the St. George Temple, with a donation of $53; also $168 was collected for the Wheat Fund; $713.68 was distributed for charity, $318.36 for general purposes and $32.36 for other purposes; on hand in all funds at the close of the year, $266.61. 1916. "Feeling that there were many things the sisters at home could do that were not practicable for the mission, a list of activities was furnished each organization that would be beneficial for education and development of new converts. A Library UNIVERSITY BRANCH, CHICAGO, ILL. Northern States Mission. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 373 Fund was inaugurated and each Society purchased 1,200 of President Penrose's tracts, "Rays of Living Light," at a cost of $1.20. At the work meetings a few tracts and magazines were given to each sister for her distribution during the coming month. The President was furnished with a small book with all the activities outlined, and the Treasurer received a book outlining "Charity," "Wheat," "Temple," and "Library" funds: each Secretary with a book outlining "Number of Names to the Temple," "Genealogical Records Established," "Family Records Established," "Magazines Distributed," "Gospel Conversations," "Visits to the Sick," and "Hours Spent in Charity." In addition each sister provided herself with a book in which she kept accurate account of the work she did, and at the work meeting, as the roll was called, these activities were reported and the splendid results that followed were gratifying indeed. At the close of the year we had sent in to the Temple, 2,369 names for baptism, with 200 for endowments and sealings, and had almost as many subscriptions to the Magazine and the other activities as in the previous year. We did not add to our Wheat Fund, feeling that we desired to emphasize our temple work. 1917. "During this year, with our enrollment of 405, we sent 3,312 names to the Temple for baptism, 363 for endowment and 400 for sealings. Many of these names were sent in by sisters not enrolled in the Societies, which necessitated a great deal of personal correspondence. The Wheat Fund was increased to $598.44; $68 was received for Temple donations and expense of mailing sheets to and from the Temple: 67,120 tracts were distributed, most of these being the new "Truth" tract, edited by the Northern States Mission and published at Independence, Mo. The money to carry on Relief Society work has been obtained through socials, bazaars and voluntary contributions. Genealogical classes have been conducted outside of our Relief Societies, by the missionaries and the brethren in most of the branches of the mission. Twenty-five groups of women were organized and are actively working, either in their own auxiliaries, or through their local Red Cross units. During the past three years we have followed the mission outline called "Memory Lessons" for the last meeting in the month. These lessons were established with a view of cultivating in the sisters a better method of explaining gospel principles. With the present force, we have had about 175 lady missionaries, and much credit is due them for their untiring efforts and loyal support of the cause." Southern States Mission. This mission, like the others, may have done much early work under the usual conditions, but we have very little record 
 of the same. In 1915, Sister Grace Callis was made President of the work in that diocese, and by the end of the year of 1916, 14 organizations with a membership of 202 were reported; 115 days were reported spent with the sick, with 490 special visits to the sick; $335 was expended by the Societies. MISSION HOME, CHATTANOOGA, TENN. President Joseph F. Smith and Party  Nov. 24, 1914 1917. "Twenty-seven branches of the Relief Society are now in active operation. A number of them are situated in the country districts and as the farm homes are separated by quite long distances the sisters have to travel a long way to the meetings and therefore they cannot hold them as often as they desire; for this reason some of the Societies hold their meetings Sunday afternoon. Some of the Societies have been organized only a few months. The sisters are enthusiastic in their work and through their faithful labors many of the meetinghouses have been supplied with individual sacrament sets and carpets. The sisters have rendered financial assistance to the missionaries in addition to caring for them in their homes and doing their laundry work. They are being counseled to assist in the Red Cross work." This mission has a fine Indian Relief Society organized, and these good souls are very faithful in visiting the sick and caring for the poor of their branch. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 375 "In a goodly number of the cities and villages, in this the oldest mission of the United States, Relief Societies are organized. The marked commencement, in this mission was by the organization of a society in Jacksonville, Florida, when President Ben. E. Rich presided over the mission, and the work has been carried forward into numerous branches. In an increasing variety of ways the activities of the members of the Relief Societies are given expression. Following are some of the results of the labors of our zealous and enthusiastic sisters: GAFFNEY, SOUTH CAROLINA, MEETINGHOUSE Southern States Mission "Many of the branches have been provided with individual sacrament sets, and this good work is being continued. As meetinghouses are completed the Relief Societies assist in furnishing them with seats, carpets, lamps, etc. The sisters are nursing the sick, and aiding to supply the needy poor with food and clothing. They are rendering financial assistance to missionaries in cases of serious illness; and are furnishing lunches free of charge to the visiting brethren and sisters and the traveling elders at the conferences. Public and home Red Cross service is ardently done by the members of the Relief Society. Generous donations of money have recently been made to the Red Cross. In a village branch where there is no church the Relief Society meetings are held in private homes; sometimes in the homes of non-members. 
 This is one of the ways opened up to our sisters to preach the gospel. The missionary sisters are efficient aids in directing the work of the local sisters and they are worthy of and receive much praise for their devotion to this branch of their missionary service. The seventy-sixth anniversary was enthusiastically celebrated." Central States Mission. The Central States Mission, under the able leadership of Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion, has made wonderful progress in the last two years. While there were only seven branches and 246 officers and members, there were 231 meetings held during 1915, which shows the interest taken by the good sisters of this mission in Relief Society work; 1,500 visits were paid to the sick, and 16 bodies were prepared for burial. In 1916 there were 11 branches and very vigorous labor for the dead was undertaken during this year. Lists for baptism for their friends were sent in by 17 people and a liberal donation for the temples was contributed. In 1917 a most active work has been carried forward in Red Cross activities; hundreds of articles have been prepared, and 132 members have joined the Red Cross. The Magazine has been very liberally supported in this mission; and although the sisters are poor and their homes very modest, they still love to labor and do a great deal of Relief Society work. Northwestern States Mission. The work in this mission, under Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, has only recently been organized in a general mission capacity. In PORTLAND MISSION. President E. B. Wells in center of Group RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 377 1914 there were seven branches with 172 officers and members; a liberal donation of $610 was paid out during that year in various charitable lines. In 1915 there were ten branches with 205 members; and in 1917 the number of branches sprang suddenly forward to 28, which is the best growth reported in any of the missions. The report says: 1916. "We wish to call attention to our increased membership 182 to 502  also there is an increase in all activities. There has been $12 worth of small books given away to investigators, also a large amount of tracts which we did not keep account of. We are still low in subscriptions to the Magazine. Will improve in 1917. Hope to visit all Societies twice this year. Wolf Point is our Indian Relief Society." HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission The rapid advancement of this Mission Relief Society work bears its own testimony to the executive qualities of its able and active President, Mrs. Ballard. California Mission. The California Mission, under Mrs. Minnie K. Robinson, had already ten branches in 1914; they owned a Relief Society hall at a cost of $381, and their membership was 209; they paid out that year $229, and were generally active in all avenues. The next year five more branches were organized, making fifteen in 
 all. They report 6,162 pounds of wheat, with a membership of 431. In 1916 a special effort was put forth to increase subscriptions to the Magazine, and like all the other missions, they report a rousing total of subscriptions. SAN BERNARDINO RELIEF SOCIETY, CALIFORNIA MISSION. 1916. "The sisters are active and interested in their work, especially the teachers. We have a great deal of work to do looking after the needy and attending the sick. Many come here from the stakes of Zion for their health, and the result is we have more sick than we otherwise would. Most of our meetings are held in private residences. The attendance is good, but the branches would have meetings if the Saints were not so badly scattered." The year 1917 found this mission also actively engaged in Red Cross work. They report $370 given for charity, and a membership of 571; 546 meetings were held; there were 121 Red Cross members, and over 481 articles contributed to the Red Cross during the year. Western States Mission. This mission has five organizations under the Presidency of Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, and although this mission has had Relief Society branches in Denver, Grand Junction and Pueblo for over twenty years, the work had not been centralized until Mrs. Herrick RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 379 was made President. Five organizations were reported last year and we copy from Mrs. Herrick's report: 1916. "With the exception of the Alamosa and Pueblo organizations all others have been organized within the last six months. All of the Societies are now following the outlines given in the Magazine very closely and are complying as closely as possible with the instructions received from headquarters." 1917. "The Fruita Relief Society has only been organized within the last few months. All of the organizations are in a good condition and are hoping to do splendid work this coming year." April 1, 1918, Sister Herrick reported the organization of a branch of the Relief Society at Rawlins, Wyoming. Hawaiian Mission. The Hawaiian Mission, like all of the long established missions, has done branch work in the Relief Society for many, many years  for at least fifty years these Hui Manawaleas have been in faithful operation. In the Laie conference a branch of the Relief Society was organized July 6, 1875. Much Relief Society work was done in Laie from that time on, but no records are available. When Sister Ellen Cole was appointed President of all the mission by President Samuel E. Woolley, she at once took up the active superintendency of the work. In 1914 she reported 29 branches, 945 officers and members, and 1,252 meetings held during that year: they had collected and had on hand $3,528, over $1,000 of which was spent largely for the projected temple. In 1915, over $4,000 was collected by these devoted Hawaiian sisters, and in 1916, $2,675 was donated to the temple. Words fail to express the simple faith and ardent labors of this child-like people. They are a recognized power, not only in the mission itself, but all over the Islands. It is a fact that the great majority of the native population belong to our Church. Sister Cole is a modest, energetic and capable woman whose labors bear constant fruit in that far-away mission. The Swiss and German Mission. During the presidency of Sister Ella Valentine, excellent reports were sent in of the work there. There were 436 members at that time, with nine branches; they had collected 633 pounds of wheat, and spent $389 in charitable work. During the past year we have heard little from this war-stricken section of Europe. A branch of the Relief Society was organized in Berlin, Germany, August 23, 1881: the one in Berne, Switzerland, about the year 1886; and the one in Amsterdam, Holland, about 1888 or 1889. 
 Mexican Mission. The Mexican Mission has been greatly disorganized through war conditions. They have done much constructive and valuable work in this mission for the last thirty years, but since our people were driven out of there, little has been done. President Rey L. Pratt reported the following to this office: "Relief Society work in the Mexican Mission, due to revolutionary conditions that have prevailed there, has for some time been greatly interfered with, and meetings have not been regularly held. However, in a recent visit that I have made to the mission I find that two of the three organizations that we left there when the elders were all brought out of the mission, continue to do relief work. All during the trying times of revolution, famine, and epidemics of disease that have devastated that country, our sisters of the Relief Societies have been as ministering angels to those in want and in distress, both among those who are members of the Church, and those who are not. Sister Petra Lopez, President of the Society that is now disorganized, untiringly ministered to the sick in her town when a terrible epidemic of typhus fever took off about half of its people, till she also took the disease from which she died, a martyr to her devotion to duty. Many others of the sisters were just as valiant, and continue so today. With improved conditions in the country we hope to revive the work, and to be able to report what is done, according to the report blank you have sent." Australian Mission. We have received the following account in regard to Relief Society work in the Australian Mission from President Arnold D. Miller's wife, Sister Mary J. Miller, who is a former stake president from Idaho: "In regard to Relief Society work in this mission, I have refrained from writing until I had visited and made a study of the various conferences and conditions here, which I have done, traveling by boat and train some ten thousand miles since my arrival in Australia. When I arrived here I found that there were no Relief Society organizations existing in the mission, with the exception of one in a remote part which I have since visited and found was not a Relief Society organization, but rather a small group, with seven lady Saints and one or two brethren. Consequently they had no branch organization; however, they met weekly in a Bible class, and also discussed the Articles of Faith. "Several years ago there were a few Relief Society organizations started with the aid and assistance of some of our missionary sisters, but as the president and elders did not have much understanding of the work and the mode of conducting the same, RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 381 the societies did not grow and prosper as they should have done. On the contrary, envy and contention arose among the officers and members, generally in regard to the using of the funds, which caused such ill-feeling among the members that the officers either resigned or the meetings became extinct, which, under the conditions, was for the best. Some of the former presidents' wives did not visit among the conferences often where the Relief Societies existed, so the members did not get the instructions and encouragement they should have received to make a success. "The former Mission President, who came here about the beginning of the war trouble, felt that the Saints had all they could well carry, and were doing all the charity work they were able to do. He felt that to organize them, would work a double hardship and expense on them, as most of them have car fare to pay in coming to the meetings. And so many of the sisters are now working individually at home during these troublesome times, and it would be very hard for them to attend Relief Society meetings. Train and car fares for Sunday services amounts to quite a sum when the purse is light. We hold M. I. A. conjoint meetings weekly, where Church doctrines are taught and discussed; also Priesthood weekly meetings; and these with other calls make an inroad on the allowances of the Saints. During the war times, which have now been over three years, there is scarcely a home but has given up either a son, brother, or father, and the necessity of economy is felt along all lines. Some of the Saints live out in the suburbs so far that they can only attend sacrament meetings once in a fortnight; and a great many of them, too, are transients, and do not remain long in one location. Oh, this cruel war has made such inroads on the homes of the majority of the people! I believe that the Saints are kind to assist each other where possible to do so, but with the drain of war, and labor strikes, etc., which are very prevalent here, and other conditions, the people are certainly kept down financially. "I have visited all the conferences in the mission but one, which was so far away (some 2,700 miles, and through an extremely dry, hot country, with several hundred miles of desert), that my health would not permit me to make the trip. There are not enough interested sisters there to create an organization, although they exert themselves to attend Sunday service. I find there is a great difference between the aborigines of the islands and the cosmopolitan people of Australia; so many came here for financial gain. "I have greatly enjoyed my missionary experiences, and they have been a great educator to me. I trust I have been the humble instrument in the hands of the Lord in doing some good at least to those I have been privileged to meet with. Although I have 
 not been able to do Relief Society work, I have talked and explained it, and its beauties and benefits, wherever I have visited, and the great good that is being accomplished by it. Also read and circulate the Relief Society Magazine among the sisters, and they seem greatly interested in it. I hope to be able to send in some subscriptions in the near future. "Another subject that I have made a strong effort to teach the people is the necessity and great value of the genealogical work, and have shown and distributed all of my genealogical literature. As a usual thing, they are very much interested in it, and many of them are searching out their ancestral histories. Quite a number have sent names of their dead friends to be officiated for by the returning elders. I believe the people in general realize the importance of this great work. Occasionally we devote an evening to that subject, and will continue to do so, believing that good results will be obtained. "The Red Cross organizations are doing a great amount of work here, and our sisters are giving them all the support they can, by taking yarn home to knit into socks, helmets, and various other articles. One never goes anywhere, either by train, boat, or car, but he sees ladies busy with their knitting. And one church here has allowed the ladies to bring their knitting, and knit during the service. I think their enthusiasm runs away with their good judgment. I believe I would knit a little longer, or faster, Saturday evening, and arise a little earlier Monday morning, to avoid what they feel would be lost time." August 1, 1880, a branch of the Relief Society was organized in New Zealand, in what was called "Christ Church." FOUR LADY MISSIONARIES IN NEW ZEALAND RELIEF SOCIETY. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 383 Scandinavian Mission. The first Relief Society organized in this mission, so far as we are able to ascertain, was the one in Copenhagen, Denmark, which was organized Nov. 20, 1879. But much excellent and faithful work has been accomplished in these countries by the sisters of the Relief Society. MRS. VENUS R. ROSSITER President Tahitian Mission Relief Society Tahitian Mission. The earliest Relief Society of the Tahitian Mission, which is on record, was organized on the Island of Anaa, in the year 1881, during the time that the white elders were banished from the Islands. Therefore, it is very apparent that the Relief Society was organized previous to the year 1852, while the former elders were still in the Islands, although there is no authentic record to that effect. The next societies were organized in the year 1892 and 1893 on the Islands of Faaite and Anaa, while President James S. Brown and Joseph W. Damron were presiding over the mission; later on the Islands of Takaroa, in 1896, and in Marokau and Tubuai in the years 1897-98 by Elders Osborn J. P. Widtsoe and Edgar L. Cropper. 
 The Relief Society work was carried on under the direction of the elders and native sisters until 1905, when Sisters Annie W. Wilkinson of St. George, Utah, and Sarah C. Hall of Salt Lake, who were the first lady missionaries to come from Zion, took charge of the work at Papeete, the mission headquarters. TAHITIAN MISSION HOME. These two sisters were followed by Sisters Mary E. Cutler of Salt Lake, from 1907-08. Lady missionaries in that mission were as follows: Mary S. Seegmiller of Richfield, Utah, from 1909-1911 Juliette L. Peterson of Lehi, Utah, from 1910-1914 Maud H. Fullmer of Salt Lake City, Utah, from 1911-1914 Margaret H. Compton of Ogden, Utah, from 1915-1917 Venus R. Rossiter of Salt Lake City, Utah, from 1915-1918 The last two named sisters, however, are the first who have personally visited and had under their direct supervision the work throughout the entire mission. There are at present five well organized and active societies, scattered over an area of more than 1,500 miles, and we expect to have several others that were organized years ago and have long since been discontinued, to be in active working condition in the very near future. In the five branches there is an enrollment of 109 members, although the attendance at meetings almost doubles that number, but on account of the existing local conditions of the race, only married women can be enrolled as Relief Society members. Although few in number it is doubtful whether a more energetic band of workers can be found throughout the Church than the Relief Society sisters of the Tahitian Mission. They are so devoted to the work that they make it a part of their lives. Meetings are held regularly every Thursday afternoon, besides several days during the month being set apart for making quilts, weaving hats, mats and other native handiwork to raise the society funds. Other means they have of swelling their coffers, is pearl diving, and from their extensive cocoanut plantations each sister donates weekly an allotted number of cocoanuts by which she pays the society dues and Temple Penny Fund dues. RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, TAHITIAN MISSION. As there are so few poor among them to be cared for, the sisters have adopted the custom of buying and preparing the burial clothes for the dead. They also keep a community medicine chest, and their kind-hearted devotion and care of the sick is untiring and beautiful to see. The president appoints the sisters by twos to remain with the afflicted household night and day, nursing or 
 doing whatever household duties present themselves, washing, ironing, cooking, etc. They also take a great delight in house to house visiting, and are assigned different subjects to discuss in the house, such as faith, prayer, chastity, proper clothing and feeding and management of children, cleanliness, etc. The Relief Society sisters have also done their part in the erection of meetinghouses, by donation of money and materials, and in many cases have actually performed manual labor, carrying sand and stone for the builders, besides furnishing and providing the meals for them. TAHITIAN MISSION CHAPEL AT TAKAROA. The elders from Zion are well cared for by the Relief Society. The sisters wash, iron and mend all their clothing, besides furnishing much of their food, and on many of the islands provide them with native thatched houses which they themselves construct and furnish comfortably with native woven mats. They also keep the Mission House at headquarters well supplied with native patch work quilts of gorgeous colors and intricate pattern. During the past year we have done some sewing for the local "Croix Rouge," Red Cross Society, and have dried fish and fruit for the Tahitian boys in the army. Our hearts are in the work and we are working hard to do our part in making this a banner year in the history of Relief Society work, both in the Tahitian Mission and the entire Church. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN MISSIONS. 387 We close this recital with the following brief report of our oldest Indian or Lamanite reorganization: The Washakie Relief Society. The Relief Society of Washakie was organized on the 20th of May, 1883, by Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Eliza R. Snow Smith, with the following officers: Elizabeth J. Zundell, president; Malissa Hunsaker, first counselor; Cohn Zundell, second counselor; Harriet E. Chandler, secretary; Almira H. Zundell, treasurer. Very few of the Lamanite sisters understood the English language, but assisted by I. E. D. Zundell, at that time the interpreter and the bishop of the ward, the Relief Society worked faithfully and were successful in starting the great Relief Society work among the Lamanite sisters. On account of Bishop Zundell and family moving to Arizona, the Relief Society was reorganized by Pres. Seymour B. Young and Pres. Oliver C. Raskins, of Malad stake, Bishop Moroni Ward of Washakie, and president of the Relief Society of Malad stake, Lucinda Raskins, in 1891. Eliza N. Ward was sustained as president, Malissa Hunsaker as first counselor, Cohn Zundell (a Lamanite sister) as second counselor, Phebe Ward as secretary and treasurer. WASHAKIE INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETY. As the Lamanites are very quick to understand they began to take a great interest in the Relief Society work, especially in ministering to the wants of their kindred. The Relief Society was again reorganized August 4, 1904, by Bishop George M. Ward of Washakie, and president of the stake Relief Society Julia A. 
 Richards and counselors Eliza A. Hall and Eliza V. Ward. Mary A. Ward was sustained president, Cohn Zundell, first counselor, Towange Timimboe, second counselor, Mary A. Ward, secretary, Lucy Z. Peoyope, assistant secretary. The president has been untiring in her labors to bring the Washakie Relief Society up to the standard with the other wards in the stake. They are storing grain and have their credits for the same with the Presiding Bishopric. They are taking the lessons outlined in our Magazine. Have done a great deal of temple work for their ancestors in the Logan temple and have donated money and have credit in the temple to have more work done there. They have this summer bottled all kinds of fruit; have dried apples and berries and are trying to conserve all the necessaries of life. In fact, I may say they are a good, industrious band of sisters, always on hand to assist their president and listen to her counsel in this great work of the Relief Society. Some of the sisters are beautiful singers, and sing in all of our meetings, when requested. They take great pleasure in testimony bearing, and the older sisters tell of their past experiences which are interpreted by those who speak our language or by Bishop Ward, when he is in attendance at our meetings. Eliza A. Hall, President Malad Stake Relief Society. These sketches are necessarily incomplete and imperfect for lack of adequate records. But enough has been said to indicate the vast amount of work done and good accomplished by the sisters of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the various mission fields. God speed the good work! AN EASY WAY TO SHELL GREEN PEAS. Loosen thumb screws on an ordinary wringer, insert stem end of the pea pod between the loose rubber rollers, when peas will fall on one side and the empty pods on the other side without crushing either peas or pods.