[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 481 | Frontispiece | By Handcart | Came Hazel]
HANDCART CAME They knew how far it was By measured longings for a home. Exulting as they went, their cart wheels spun Into the garnet-studded West. Children of the evening, they? No, of the noon. The scars of the night were washed away, The Zion of their days begun. A thousand miles and pull a cart! They, of avalanche and stone, Of fiords and crags, Of bounties of the sea and shore. Possessions now, were millstones gone. The throated burning in their breasts Enough to feed upon. They knew how far it was, The lingering distance stalked with death. With spider strength, dragged Carcasses of bed and skillet, Flour and salt, through grass of June, July's scorched lips, then to lay their burdens down Upon November's sod. Ground so hallowed, pray Walk unshod. —Hazel Loomis Meeting of Desert and Mountains, Southern Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Handcart in the West Photograph by Dorothy J.

Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes From Near and Far I must tell you that I made two gingerbread houses from the recipe in the December Magazine (by Berta Mae Peek). I gave one to some little friends of mine and the other to my own children. All were delighted. I was surprised to find how easy it was to make the houses and how beautiful they were. I am planning to make more cakes next year. June JLrskme BooXh, Ames, /owe I have been so interested in your story— "Welcome the Task" by Michele Bartmess (November 1968— June 1969). I have a special pride in reading this, too, because I feel a special love for the person writing it. We so enjoyed being able to associate with Michele in B YU's Maeser Hall where we were privileged to be dorm parents. Caro/ Wright, Provo, Utah When I first married I was given a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as a wedding gift. That was my first introduction, and I have never been without this wonderful Magazine since that time. It has been an inspiration to me as a homemaker. Since I have been in the mission field I have come to a greater awareness of the true value of the Magazine. I have used the materials on many different assignments, and many times the Spirit has directed me to the very issue that has given me guidance and information. Donna Craven, Auckland, New Zealand The Relief Society Magazine is certainly a guiding light in my life. It is almost the only Magazine that gives so much wholesome reading. I teach the spiritual living class in Relief Society and I love the lessons as they are presented in the Magazine. Nadine M. B. Anderson, Steambojat Springs, Colorado Kind Mormon friends from Washington D. C. introduced me to the Magazine and have it sent to me. I enjoy reading it very much and admire the lovely covers. I am pleased to see the pictures of so many of the sisters and am most grateful for the precious gift of the Magazine. Marguerite MOIIer, Neuchatel, Switzerland It is a most satisfying experience to me to realize how very much the sisters in the Canadian Mission love and use the Magazine. They truly make it a vital part of their lives. Of course, to me, it is the breath of home and loved ones, and I turn the pages and read every word. I feel close to all the dear Relief Society sisters, and am grateful for their strength and inspiration. Ardella Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society, Brampton, Ontario I want to tell all of you sisters who work in that lighthouse, that The Relief Society Magazine is the one our sisters here admire most, and we support the organization so that the great work can go forth and our joy can be greater. We are happy to have the Magazine in Spanish. Adela Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico We have an exceotionally strong and good Relief Society in the Florida Mission. The sisters do wonderful work and receive great assistance from the General Board. The Magazine is wonderful. Only yesterday, an eighty-three-year-old man said to me, "One Magazine I always subscribe to is The Relief Society Magazine. When I read the stories they always bring tears to my eyes, and this is the favorite Magazine of all for me."