Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon AT the Inter-American Conference of Chapultepec, Mexico March 1945, much was done to assure Latin-American women civil and political rights. To date, only seven Spanish-American countries have given women suffrage. Miss Katherine Lenroot, former head of the Children's Bureau at Washington, National Congresswoman Edith N. Rogers, and Senora Castillo Ledon of Mexico worked on a women's and children's charter. A resolution was passed that women should henceforth be represented at all international conferences. The Inter-American Commission of Women is now an integral part of the Pan-American Union. AT the Chapultepec Conference, Utah's Mrs. Burton W. Musser was chairman of the People's Mandate Committee, which consists of intelligent, public-spirited women of all Pan-American nations. Mrs. Musser has been an official United States delegate to two Pan-American conferences, and was a member of the delegation which flew to nearly every South and Central American country to urge ratification of the treaties. She herself was author of one treaty. She feels that the Chapultepec conference was highly successful in renewing disturbed Pan-American solidarity, in gaining greater world recognition of Sanish-American countries, and in insisting upon peace instead of force as a means of settling international disputes. MRS. GROVER S. RICH, Mrs. Emily S. Stewart, Judge Reva Beck Bosone, and Mrs. Burton W. Musser attended the San Francisco Conference. Mrs. Rich, National President of the Order of Women Legislators, was appointed chairman of all the observer organizations of the nation. The other three represented the People's Mandate Committee and other national and international organizations. Mrs. Bosone, who went to the conference heavy-hearted over world conditions, came away feeling that this co-operative effort was a real beginning toward world peace. FROM the contributions of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Mrs. Kate B. Carter has compiled another invaluable book on early Utah life  Sayings, /ingles. Mottoes, Sermonettes oi The Pioneers. NURSE ALIDA LUTZ-a war casualty has been awarded posthumously the Distinguished Flying Cross. She was killed in an airplane crash on her 197th mission, evacuating the wounded. She had more than 800 flying hours to her credit. Page 469 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 AUGUST 1945 NO. 8