[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 316 | General Feature | Homemaking— The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking— The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet Celestia J. Taylor]

Salt 2 cups water Put above ingredients into top of double boiler and leave uncovered. Bring water in bottom of boiler to full rolling boil and boil for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to low and let simmer overnight. (Any unused portion can be kept in refrigerator and reheated.) 4. Sprouted Wheat (good source of vitamin C.) Place soft cloth on bottom of tray or cookie sheet. Sprinkle with wheat and cover with another cloth. Keep damp by sprinkling two or three times daily. Set in dark place at about 70 degrees temperature for two to four days. (May be used in stews, soups, salads, casseroles, etc.) Note: All good cookbooks contain recipes using wheat and wheat products. HONEY Honey itself is a nutritious food used as a spread, topping, or confection. It can be used as a substitute for sugar or other sweetener in almost any recipe— in breads, in cakes and cookies, in frostings, fillings, sauces, and dressings, and in puddings and other desserts. Cooked to hard-crack stage and stretched like taffy, with vanilla added, honey makes a delicious old-fashioned candy favorite. 1. Honey Cream Sauce Mix in small saucepan: 2 tbs. Melted butter 2 tsp. Cornstarch 1, cup honey Cook 5 minutes (for puddings, ice cream topping, etc.) 

317 April 1970

 2. Pineapple Honey Dressing Mix and shake well: ¥/, cup honey 1/, cup lemon juice Y/, tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Crushed pineapple (for fruit salads.) MOLASSES Molasses has long been a favorite of good cooks for its versatile uses in cookies, candies, popcorn balls, gingerbreads, cakes, and puddings. 1. Old-Fashioned Molasses Cookies Set oven at 375 degrees. Cream together: Y/, cup shortening Y, cup butter 1', cup brown sugar Add 1 egg slightly beaten ¥, cup molasses Y, cup milk Sift together and add: 2 cups flour ¥, tsp. Salt Y/, tsp. Ginger or cloves Y/, tsp. Cinnamon 1 tsp. Baking soda Put spoonfuls on cookie sheet and bake about 10 minutes. Rolled cookies can be made by adding enough more flour (about 44 cup) to handle. 2. Molasses added to milk makes a nutritious drink for children. NOTES It has been suggested that if a food is to be stored, a taste for that food should be developed before an emergency arises. A reliable family wheat mill or grinder is recommended as a valuable addition to our storage program. These are available at various hardware and emergency food supply stores. LEO 318 KSL Radio's Hill Cumorah Tour 16 days departing July 18 and July 25, 1970. $310 per person 23 Day Tour including Canada departing July 25, 1970. $438 per person For details, write: KSL RADIO 145 Social Hall Ave.