[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 262 | Special Feature | Apples of Gold— Third Prize Poem Alice | Morrey Bailey]
Third Prize Poem APPLES OF GOLD Alice Morrey Bailey "A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver - (Proverbs 25:11) Words fitly spoken have rolled Like filling bushels into my mind's hold Since my remembering. Patient teachers of the book and rule, Of sky and stone and sea have been my school, Beloved masters of the Word my staves of strength. Wide leaves of books have spread for my delight. The statesman's lofty phrase describes my freedom. I have been wooed with vowel words of wine And heard the petalled syllables of children. Sages have burrowed the roots of my wisdom, Poets have borne me on the boughs Of loveliness. Since my remembering My father's praise Has budded my young ego and girded my treasure, And the sweet-cider words of my mother's loving Have hugged me to safety, swelling My measure And filling the silver pictures of my days With apples of gold. 262 ALICE MORREY BAILEY (author of ''Apple of Gold,'' Third Prize Poem) "One of the highlights of my life was the invitation to represent all Relief Society Magazine writers and Wells Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) in an exhibit of the theme 'The Relief Society Magazine encourages creative writing,' at the October 1969 Relief Society Annual General Conference, appropriately so, as I am one of the many writers who have received encouragement from the Magazine. '"'I was born in the small town of Joseph, Utah, to John F. And Laura Rawlinson Morrey. My husband, R. DeWitt Bailey, and I have three children, fourteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. I am at present organist for the Singing Mothers of Whittier Ward, teacher trainer in the Sunday School, and editor of the Ward Bulletin. I am retired after twenty years as a Relief Society trained nurse-aid, six years as a cartographer for the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and twenty years as a secretary-draftsman at the University of Utah. I am now a free-lance writer and sculptor, and am also very much involved in genealogical work. I am vice-president of the Utah State Poetry Society, member of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies, the Utah Sonneteers, League of Utah Writers, and the Associated Utah Artists, former member of the League of American Penwomen, and have spent fourteen years as a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts, having been appointed by three successive governors to represent sculpture."