[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 250 | Special Feature | President Nathan Eldon Tanner Recalled As | Second Counselor]
[President Nathan Eldon Tanner Recalled As Second Counselor]
The Relief Society members throughout the world are blessed to have Relief Society go forward under the guidance of President Joseph Fielding Smith, who is filled with that charity which never faileth. 247 248 sident Harold B. Lee Called As First Counselor to President Smith January 23, 1970 @ Relief Society sisters throughy out the world rejoice at the appointment of Elder Harold B. Lee to become First Counselor to President Joseph Fielding Smith in the First Presidency of the Church as of January 23, 1970. President Lee has served as an adviser to Relief Society from the Council of the Twelve since 1963. He has a thorough understanding of the work of Relief Society and has given invaluable advice to the General Presidency over the years. He was called to the Council of the Twelve in April 1941, and becomes the senior member of that body with the calling of President Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of the Church. President Lee has been prominent in the organization and administration of the Church Welfare Program, and since 1960 has served as general chairman of the Church Correlation Program. President Lee was born in Clifton, Idaho, March 28, 1899, one of six children of Samuel Marion and Louisa Emeline Bingham Lee. He was reared in Cache Valley, Idaho, on a farm and received his education at Oneida Stake Academy and Albion Normal School where he received a teaching certificate. At the age of seventeen he was teaching and serving as principal of a small school in Southern Idaho. His own school activities were varied and interesting. He played in the school band, on the basketball team, was a debater, and played in an orchestra. In November 1920, he was called to labor as a missionary in the Western States Mission. Following his mission he took up residence in Salt Lake City and attended the University of Utah. On November 14, 1923, President Lee was married to Fern Lucinda Tanner in the Salt Lake Temple. They had two daughters, Helen Lee Goates, and Maurine Lee Wilkins, who passed away in 1966. There are ten grandchildren. Sister Lee passed away in 1962. President Lee was married on June 17, 1963, to Freda Joan Jensen who is a member of the DESERET NEWS PHOTOGRAPH a Primary General Board and who sustains him in all his labors. Prior to his call as a General Authority, President Lee was a prominent educator, and served on the Salt Lake City Commission. In 1930 he was sustained as president of the Pioneer Stake, at that time, the youngest stake president in the Church. This was during the depression years, and it was here, under his leadership, that the Welfare Program demonstrated its worth. In 1937, at the request of the First Presidency, he became the managing director of the Church Welfare Plan. _ Relief Society sisters throughout the Church remember the many addresses President Lee has delivered at Relief Society Annual General Conferences which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine. They remain available for study, enjoyment, and inspiration. The sustaining power of Relief Society members is exercised in behalf of President Lee. 249 Sister Lee, a member of the General Board of the Primary, sustains President Lee in every calling. DESERET NEws PHOTOGRAPHY S (Isabelle) Jensen Mrs, 1. To be a Genera] Authority His S ola Odes, Mrs. G. L. First assignment Was an appoint. Eth) Packman, and Mrs, [ Ment as President of e West (He en) Willi European Mission His adminiscame principal of the high School. The Missions of that area. Rst President of the Calgary ued influence and guidance as he Stake, and it was While holding Serves in this high Position.