[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 281 | Special Feature | A New Season for Christy— Third Prize Story Joan | B. Kearl]
[A New Season for Christy— Third Prize Story Joan B. Kearl]

Outside, the trees with their branches stark and barren, stretched skyward, awaiting a new season. And this was a new and radiant Christy. A Christy who had finally found her place in life. She, too, had passed into a new season. All this, Susan thought, is a part of living. Nothing really ends, it just grows into something new. JOAN B. KEARL (author of ''A New Season for Christy,'' Third Prize Story) 'I feel deeply honored and absolutely delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. I had let myself become intimidated by the fact that I had not had a university education. Then I submitted an article to The Improvement Era which was published in June 1969. After the many compliments received on that article, I decided to enter the Relief Society Short Story Contest. I am so happy that I did! "!_ was born in Cape Town, South Africa, the only member of my family to join the Church. My husband, Ted, is a Canadian and served a mission in New Zealand. Two of our children, Jeri and Gary, were born in Canada, while Keith, our youngest, was born in Provo. We are all active in the Pleasant View Third Ward, East Sharon Stake, Utah. My thanks and appreciation to The Relief Society Magazine for making it possible for my story to be published in such a fine Magazine."' 287 Fight CANCER With a Check-up and aCheck Fess Parker, 1970 Crusade Chairman It takes you to fight cancer says the American Cancer Society.

And it wasn't a dream." Christy's face was pale in the soft lamplight. "Get under the covers with me for a minute." Susan saw that Christy was shivering. "There, that's better. Do you want to talk about it?" "Someone was calling me. It was a woman's voice and she spoke a foreign language, but I knew she was saying that she needed me. At first I thought it was a dream and tried to go back to sleep. But, Mother, the same thing happened again twice more. Just that voice calling to me for help." "Were you afraid, Christy?" "No, I wasn't. It didn't give me a bad _ feeling." Christy's voice was filled with awe. "What do you think it means?" "I don't know, but we could ask the Lord." "That is what I wanted you to say, Mother. Will you ask him?" "No, I don't think that would be right. The voice called you, but we will kneel together." The two heads werebowed for a long time but when they finally got back into bed the only answer they received was a feeling of peace and calm. They slept within a few minutes. Susan opened her eyes to find Christy, propped up on one arm, looking at her. "I love you, Mother," she said. Leaning forward, she kissed Susan's cheek. "I'm sure the Lord answered our prayers last night. Several days ago you said if I went to Europe for six months you would not oppose any plans I made on my return. Well, that is what I'm going to do." She plumped the pillows behind her back. "It isn't what I want to do. I want to stay here and go through with the wedding plans, but I know you are worried about me. I've been lying here thinking it all through. Pll talk with Don first thing and then take the first plane I can get to Rome. The sooner I leave here, the sooner I'll be back." She spoke quietly and matterof-factly. "Any special reason for choosing Rome?" Susan asked. "Well, I have a feeling the voice was calling me in Italian." She smiled self-consciously. "Maybe someone over there does need me. Anyway, I've decided to start there. Good thing my passport is in order." Two days later she was in Rome. The first letters were filled with homesickness and Susan's heart ached for her daughter, but soon they changed as Christy became involved in her studies. Then they changed again as she became involved in people. Susan A New Season for Christy remembered how proud she had been when the letters showed Christy unconsciously filling a mission. She was teaching the gospel to a young couple who became interested after Christy explained why she didn't have wine with her meals. One letter said, "I wanted the missionaries to teach the lessons, but Mario and Elaina wouldn't hear of it. They want me to teach them, Mother." Another letter received a_ little later said, "Last night I taught them about eternal marriage. They both cried and said it was the most beautiful thing they had ever heard. This morning they came really early and asked me to make arrangements for their baptism. I called the branch president and he is coming over this evening to talk with them. Mother, Elaina has a terminal disease and they want to be together forever. Isn't that wonderful?" There were big blotches on the paper and the ink had run in several places. Susan imagined Christy's tears staining the paper. More letters followed. Mario and Elaina were baptized. They were saving to go to the temple in Switzerland. They were expecting a baby and Elaina's health was improving. Many months later a letter arrived from Switzerland saying, "They were married and sealed in the Swiss Temple today. I drove up with them but, of course, I didn't go into the temple. They are so happy." A baby daughter was born whom they named Christina and called Christy. Two months later Elaina died.: "Mario says they knew she didn't have much 

285 April 1970

 time, but this isn't the end, just a change for awhile. Mother, that is what Daddy said to me just before he died." A week later Susan received a cable. '""My work done. Elaina doesn't need me any longer. Please meet plane 1.55 P. M. Your time tomorrow. Love Christy." The six months agreed upon had stretched into fifteen! Christy had seen Don every night but no plans were mentioned. Last night when Christy came in to say goodnight she held out a bare left hand. "I gave the ring back to Don," she said. "But do you mind if we don't talk about it right now?" Susan blinked back tears as she kissed her daughter. She knew Christy would talk about it when she was ready. * * * * Be "Grandma, are you sleeping?" Susan opened her eyes to see her little granddaughter looking up into her face. She was surprised to see that the chapel was nearly filled. "No, dear. I'm not sleeping." "Then why were your eyes shut?" "I was thinking, Julie," she answered softly. With an effort she brought her thoughts back to the present and soon Christy stood before them all.. "I want to tell you a story," she said. "One day, soon after I arrived in Rome, I went sightseeing. I rented a little car and managed to get myself hopelessly lost in - all the twists and turns in that great city' When I finally did get. Back, I found I had locked the key inside the apartment 286 when I left that morning. It was dark and I was tired and discouraged. As I stood there on the doorstep a young woman asked if I was in trouble and if she could help me. Her English was broken, but we could understand each other. I explained my predicament and she said, 'You wait. I come soon.' In a few minutes she was back with a key and opened the door for me." So that is how she met Elaina, Susan mused. "I thanked her, grateful to go inside and rest," Christy continued. "I was lucky that someone else had a key." "Latter-day Saints are seeking admission into the home of Heavenly Father. Keys are made available to each of us, but sometimes we get lost along the road leading to exaltation. In Rome I had to fight a strange city that seemed to have no traffic laws, an unfamiliar language, and twists and turns that seemed to take me nowhere. As _ Latterday Saints we fight temptation, sin, and weakness all our lives. If we do get off the straight and narrow road it is possible to get back onto it. But what happens if, when we finally stand on the doorstep of our Heavenly Father's house, we find we have no key? No one else can open that door for us. We must have our own key." _ Christy's voice quivered in earnestness. She leaned on the podium in an effort to get as close as possible to the congregation. "The first principles of the gospel, faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands by those in authority," she con- tinued, "is the key that will gain us admission into the celestial kingdom. "But is that enough for us? No. It certainly is not." The clear voice rose in volume until it filled every part of the silent chapel. "We want to go into the highest degree of that kingdom and become sons and daughters of God, heirs of his kingdom." The congregation. Felt the spirit which flowed from Christy and leaned toward her straining to take the spirit into themselves. Now the words came softly. "For that key we must go to the temple and be married and sealed for time and all eternity." Christy looked into her mother's eyes as she spoke and Susan knew the reason for the broken engagement and silently gave thanks. "The ordinances of the temple," Christy said, "pertain to the celestial kingdom where our Heavenly Father is. Nevertheless, it is given to us to choose and our final destination is our own fault or blessing." With tears streaming down A New Season for Christy her cheeks Christy bore her testimony and the meeting was quickly brought to a close. For several minutes people remained in their seats, as if reluctant to leave the building where they had received a spiritual feast. Susan, too, sat quietly enjoying the great peace that permeated her body. Things had to change if there was to be progress, she reflected. This chapel had served the ward well many years but it could be used for a new purpose in the future. The change from autumn to winter is not sudden. The signs are there if we look. The days grow shorter, nights have a touch of frost, the air becomes crisp and' the leaves change color and fall.