[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 308 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

—Peggy Tangren 307 a iesqenesy "Om THE FIELD Relief Society Activities San Juan Stake (Utah), Moab Ward Presents "Through the Open Door to Relief Society,"' October 1, 1969 Officers of Moab Ward Relief Society, kneeling in front: Erma Jean Brock, Homemaking Counselor; VeLoye DeFriez, President. Seated, left to right: Nadine Stevens, Education Counselor: Donna Duncan, SecretaryTreasurer. Back row, left to right: Kay Rich, social relations class leader: Connie Hoggatt, homemaking leader; Deanna Rothwell, cultural refinement class leader; Billie May Olney, visiting teacher message leader; Genevieve Holyoak, organist; Pat Ferguson, chorister. Marian G. Nielson, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Moab Ward Relief Society held a unique fall social to introduce the ward officers to the members. In a white book made by the officers entitled 'Always Busy, Always Happy,' each officer was given a page which she decorated in accordance with her Relief Society responsibilities. ''Each officer and teacher also presented a skit, an Original song or verse, or bore her testimony. The ward was gratified by the largest attendance ever to a social."' Greensboro Stake (North Carolina) Honors Visiting Teachers, September 13, 1969 Greensboro Stake Relief Society officers, fourth row, beginning ninth from left, left to right: Jessie Roberts, President; Carolyn Oborn, First Counselor; Patricia Higbee, Second Counselor; Ruth Alice Brewer, Magazine representative; second from right: Ara Jean Hiatt, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Roberts reports: ''Our visiting teachers were honored with a special program. A skit written by Sister Ara Jean Hiatt portrayed our attitude toward the call of visiting teaching and the effect it has upon our children. 'Special musical numbers and an inspiring talk by Stake President Richard D. Lee highlighted the occasion. 'Forty of our sisters had perfect visiting teaching records this year and were honored. A corsage was given to our eldest visiting teacher, Sister Josie Rippy, eightyfive. We feel that the sisters enjoyed the program and the association one with another." 

308 April 1970

 Pomona Stake (California) Sponsors Quilting Demonstrations at County Fair September 12-27, 1969 Left to right: Nora Perdue and Atha Abel, of Ontario Second Ward, which provided quilters for this year's demonstration. Marie Thompson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: 'For the past three years Pomona Stake has had the Privilege of Sponsoring a quilting demonstration Richland Stake (Washington), Kennewick Second Ward Presents Bazaar, November 18, 1969 Left to right: Mary Craven; Erolene Reed: Patty Clifford. Evel f elyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Kennewick Second Ward in our Stake presented an outstanding bazaar. The theme for the event to represent a circus wagon." Evah Brown is President of Kennewick Second Ward Relief Whittier Stake (California) Conducts Campaign For Greater Relief Society Attendance October 1969 li Betty Snelson, Seventh Ward; Donna Barnes, Sixth Ward; Bertha Smith, Fourth Ward; Bishops of the wards, back row, left to right: Paul J. Parish, First Ward; Marvin E. Jacobson, "Novel 'Don't Miss It' buttons were worn, and the Campaign helped to acquaint © many sisters and Priesthood bearers with the Relief Society program." April 1970 Hunter Stake (Utah), Hunter Sixth Ward Presents Bazaar November 1, 1969 Left to right: Nancy Hancock and Barbara Boynton, who were co-chairmen of the toy booth, along with Adena Rydalch. LuRae B. Garn, President, Hunter Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Hunter Sixth Ward held a most successful bazaar featuring a great many toys in preparation for the Christmas season. "The most popular toys were the Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy dolls and stuffed animals. Twenty-nine of the Raggedy Ann and Andy sets were sold. They were displayed on a tree, and resembled children playing. 'The bazaar was very successful and enjoyable. Susan S. Hutchinson is president of Hunter Sixth Ward Relief Society."' re — Tucson North Stake (Arizona), Tucson First Ward Bazaar '"'Expo '69"' Is Successful, November 14, 1969 Veda Anderson, President, Tucson North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The First Ward in our stake presented a most unique and successful bazaar with the theme 'Expo '69,' representing various countries throughout the world. "A North Pole Christmas booth contained many novel and beautiful gift ideas. A French Boutique Shoppe was the outlet for many lovely gold leafed items, floral arrangements, and decorative wall hangings. 'The toy booth (pictured) was called ''Das Kinderhaus'"' and the toys sold there were delightful and beautifully made. Other booths containing lovely articles of handwork were popular. "Young and old alike were attracted to the French Pastry Shoppe and the Dutch Chocolate area where candies and other delicacies were sold. It was a great success, attended by many nonmembers. Patricia Christiansen is President of the Tucson First Ward Relief Society." North Seattle Stake (Washington) Presents Singing Mothers Concert, July 31, 1969 Front row, left to right: Merla H. Wilkins, First Counselor, North Seattle Stake Relief Society; Wanda B. Bean, President; Esther £. Morrell, Second Counselor; Donna R. Baird, Secretary-Treasurer; Donna Harker, assistant accompanist. Center Front: Mary Lynne Molter, accompanist; at her left: Nell B. Marler, chorus director. Gentleman at right: Maughan McMurdie, guest conductor. Sister Bean reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake presented a concert under the direction of a guest conductor, Maughan McMurdie, formerly associated with the music department at Brigham Young University. This chorus also provided the music for our visiting teacher convention, stake conference, and participated in the stake music festival.', oo" LED, eee eer a ee. rhe, Leen sane phones nae JEL VALAIS D &° Ges 2: April 1970 Sydney (Australia) Stakes Three Relief Society Presidents—Sydney Stake, Sydney South Stake and the Newly Organized Parramatta Stake, November 2, 1969 Left to right: Mavis Draper, Sydney South Stake; Betty Stokes, Sydney Stake; Jean Hale, Parramatta Stake. Sister Stokes reports: ''November 2, 1969 was a memorable day for the Sydney, Australia Stakes, for it was the occasion when Elder LeGrand Richards presided at the combined Stake Conference of Sydney Stake and Sydney South Stake at the Sydney Town Hall for the purpose of creating the Parramatta Stake. Our photograph shows the happiness of the three stake Relief Society presidents at the formation of the new Parramatta Stake.'' Riverton Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert For Visiting Teachers, June 6, 1969 Violet Hamilton, President, Riverton Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our visiting teachers were presented with a lovely concert by 107 Singing Mothers. The theme "When Mothers Sing'' was developed through music and a narration written by Beatrice Casper. The singing was conducted by Rosamond Butterfield, stake chorister, and was accompanied on the organ and piano by Betty Peterson and Judy Lloyd. '"'A special tribute to visiting teachers was written and given by Phyllis Butterfield, stake Secretary-Treasurer. Following the program, a luncheon was served by the stake board."' Taylor Stake (Alberta, Canada) Sponsors Nursery Seminar November 22, 1969 Vinessa T. Hamilton, President, Taylor Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We returned from Relief Society Annual General Conference inspired with the idea of holding a Nursery Seminar. The seminar was planned by Sister Margaret Blumel, who was assisted by various board members. 'The nursery class from one of the wards was used to demonstrate the program. Each lesson in the manual was illustrated, and materials and patterns were available to the sisters. Sister Ruth Gibb demonstrated finger plays and rhythm bands. "All sisters present were treated to a light lunch prepared and served by the stake board. We feel that this program helped to inspire the nursery leaders and will greatly enhance the teaching of our Relief Society children." 314 x ¥ % % %& ¥% ¥ x k EK BK AK OK KK KKK KK KK Lesson Department EREREKEE EERE EEE EES HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness HK KK OK OK OK OK K Discussion 10—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet ".. Eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste.'' (Prov. 24:13.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1970 Southern Hemisphere: December 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show various uses of wheat, honey, and molasses in cooking. INTRODUCTION There is probably no fragrance more pleasantly nostalgic to any of us than that of freshly baked homemade bread and no combination of foods more satisfying to our taste buds than that of bread and honey. Not only are these foods good to the taste, they are also inexpensive, wholesome, and nutritious. They are highly recommended among the basic foods that we should include in our home storage program. Such phrases as "the staff of life," "wheat for man," "earn our 316 bread," "land of milk and honey," and others are familiar to all of us, and they are indicative of the importance of these foods in our daily diet. Nutritional experts tell us that foods made from wheat contribute about one-fourth of the total energy requirements of the American people and that in some European countries the wheat products are nearly twice as great. Likewise honey and molasses have been used the world over for generations as basic supplements to our nutritional needs. SOME USES OF WHEAT (Wheat may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour.) 1. Bulgur Recipe 1. Wash wheat in cool water and pour off the water. 2. Add enough water barely to cover wheat and boil until water is absorbed and wheat is tender. (35 to 45 minutes.) 3. Spread wheat thinly in shallow pan or on cookie sheet and dry in 200 degree oven until very dry, so that it will crack easily. 4. Wet surface of dried wheat slightly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff. (Very little nutritional value will be lost.) 5. Crack wheat into moderate size pieces using mill or grinder or even mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be left whole to retain a chewy quality. Bulgur can be used in any recipe calling for cracked wheat or bulgur. (A book of bulgur recipes is available on request from Western Regional Research Laboratory, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, California 94710.) 2. Cracked Wheat Bread (Five loaves.) 5 cups unsifted cracked wheat flour 6 to 7 cups sifted all-purpose flour 2 packages dry yeast 1 cup milk (reconstituted powdered milk may be used) 3, cups warm water 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 4 tsps. Salt 3 tbsp. Sugar (or 14 cup honey or molasses) Place dry ingredients together in large pan. Sprinkle yeast over water and add one tablespoon of sugar. (Do not stir.) Then add the milk and shortening and mix with the dry ingredients until the dough leaves the sides of the pan. Knead the dough until smooth. Rub shortening on hands through kneading process as dough will be slightly sticky. Grease top of bread. Cover and let rise in warm place free: from drafts. Allow bread to double in bulk. Punch down and let rise again to double. Preheat oven Lesson Department to 400 degrees. Shape each loaf and place in lightly greased bread pans. Cover and let rise until dough reaches top of pans. Bake 40 to 50 minutes. Remove from pans immediately and grease sides and top. Cover completely with towel and invert hot pans on top of each loaf. 3. Whole Wheat Cereal 1 cup clean whole wheat 1 tsp. Salt 2 cups water Put above ingredients into top of double boiler and leave uncovered. Bring water in bottom of boiler to full rolling boil and boil for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to low and let simmer overnight. (Any unused portion can be kept in refrigerator and reheated.) 4. Sprouted Wheat (good source of vitamin C.) Place soft cloth on bottom of tray or cookie sheet. Sprinkle with wheat and cover with another cloth. Keep damp by sprinkling two or three times daily. Set in dark place at about 70 degrees temperature for two to four days. (May be used in stews, soups, salads, casseroles, etc.) Note: All good cookbooks contain recipes using wheat and wheat products. HONEY Honey itself is a nutritious food used as a spread, topping, or confection. It can be used as a substitute for sugar or other sweetener in almost any recipe— in breads, in cakes and cookies, in frostings, fillings, sauces, and dressings, and in puddings and other desserts. Cooked to hard-crack stage and stretched like taffy, with vanilla added, honey makes a delicious old-fashioned candy favorite. 1. Honey Cream Sauce Mix in small saucepan: 2 tbs. Melted butter 2 tsp. Cornstarch 1, cup honey Cook 5 minutes (for puddings, ice cream topping, etc.) 

317 April 1970

 2. Pineapple Honey Dressing Mix and shake well: ¥/, cup honey 1/, cup lemon juice Y/, tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Crushed pineapple (for fruit salads.) MOLASSES Molasses has long been a favorite of good cooks for its versatile uses in cookies, candies, popcorn balls, gingerbreads, cakes, and puddings. 1. Old-Fashioned Molasses Cookies Set oven at 375 degrees. Cream together: Y/, cup shortening Y, cup butter 1', cup brown sugar Add 1 egg slightly beaten ¥, cup molasses Y, cup milk Sift together and add: 2 cups flour ¥, tsp. Salt Y/, tsp. Ginger or cloves Y/, tsp. Cinnamon 1 tsp. Baking soda Put spoonfuls on cookie sheet and bake about 10 minutes. Rolled cookies can be made by adding enough more flour (about 44 cup) to handle. 2. Molasses added to milk makes a nutritious drink for children. NOTES It has been suggested that if a food is to be stored, a taste for that food should be developed before an emergency arises. A reliable family wheat mill or grinder is recommended as a valuable addition to our storage program. These are available at various hardware and emergency food supply stores. LEO 318 KSL Radio's Hill Cumorah Tour 16 days departing July 18 and July 25, 1970. $310 per person 23 Day Tour including Canada departing July 25, 1970. $438 per person For details, write: KSL RADIO 145 Social Hall Ave.