[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 267 | Special Feature | Award Winners— Relief Society Short | Story Contest]
1969 award winners Relief Society Short Story Contest Ge w The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce the winners in the 1969 Relief Society Short Story Contest. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her story ''Come Back Mis' Mackenzie."' Sixty dollars goes to second prize winner Sara Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, for her story ''A Place in the Picture."' Third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Joan B. Kearl, Provo, Utah, for her story ''A New Season for Christy." The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted in 1942 as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The contest was initiated to encourage the sisterhood of the Church to express themselves in the field of fiction. They are encouraged to read and study short stories and fiction techniques in order to improve their writing skills and appreciation for short stories. The General Board feels that the contest has helped to improve the quality of writing among the sisters of the Church, and is an aid to improving the literary quality of the Magazine. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication except by written permission from the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted to the contest, paying for them at regular Magazine rates upon publication. A winner who has received first prize two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were seventy-seven stories submitted to the 1969 contest, including one each from England, Israel, and Scotland. Utah and California topped eighteen States of the United States in number of entrants. Mrs. Young has appeared many times in the Magazine, and has been a Story contest winner two other times, and a poem contest winner four times. Mrs. Neilson has also had stories published in the Magazine, and has been a winner once before. Mrs. Kearl will be new to readers. Gratitude is extended to the judges and to the members of the General Board who served on the contest committee. The winners are to be congratulated for the quality of writing, and the development of their stories. The prize-winning stories are presented in this issue along with brief biographical sketches of the authors. 267 Sylvia Probst Young = When I came to school that morning Mis' Mackenzie was standing at the south window watching the clouds, high and wispy, moving rapidly across the morning sky. It was a kind of ritual with her, standing at the window for a few moments of quiet contemplation before the day's work started. "It helps me to get things in focus, so that everything can start right,' she once explained to me. "Good morning, Joe. You're an early bird." She turned from the window as I came in, and the brightness of her smile made me feel good all over. Mis' Mackenzie (she was really Mrs. Mackenzie, but children usually call a married lady Mis') had been my teacher ever since I 268 First Prize Story come back, Mis' Mackenzie had started school, and I was in the sixth grade. In fact she was the only teacher Indian Bend had ever had. Ours was one of those few one-room schools, remaining because of necessity, too far away from any other school in the district to be consolidated. Indian Bend had grown up around the dam, and the Mackenzies had been some of the first people there because Mr. Mackenzie was one of the chief engineers. Mis' Mackenzie, who had been a schoolteacher, consented to teach the school. A few months before the dam was completed, Mr. Mackenzie died quite suddenly of a heart attack. Everyone thought then that Mis' Mackenzie would move away; she had a son living in California, and we all expected her to go there to live, but she didn't. She stayed right on and kept teaching our school. Once I asked her why she didn't go to California to teach, there wouldn't be all the winter snow to buck, and her son and his family wanted her to come. "Why, Joe, how would you all get along without me?" she laughed. Then she looked solemn." I guess it's because I love you all, and I'm something like a plant, I have deep roots here. Then, too, it might be quite hard to get a teacher to come, you know. Teachers can just about choose where they want to go these days." That was Mis' Mackenzie all right, she was always thinking of others. Although she went to California every year when school was out, she always came back in the fall. And, to tell the truth, I don't know what would have happened to our school if she had decided not to return. MIi;' Mackenzie was our ideal, and we all loved her, everyone in Indian Bend felt that way about her. She was small and plumpish (Mis' Mackenzie was always on a diet). Her hair was soft brown, and when you stood close to her it made you remember the smell of apple blossoms. I thought the most beautiful thing about her was her eyes, dark and so very expressive, set beneath the little smile wrinkles that framed them. She was fired with enthusiasm, and although she must have been all of sixty, she looked easily ten years younger. She could jog a mile, and bat a ball as far as any of the boys. Equally enthusiastic for work, she spent long hours of extra time helping those who needed additional help, and she expected each of her students to