[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 254 | Special Feature | Scouting as a Preparation for Leadership | Belle S. Spafford]
Scouting As a Preparation for Leadership over-all goals of scouting. The latter explained that it was a hope of the Boy Scouts of America to penetrate deeply into poverty areas where riots, crime rates, drug abuse seem to escalate, so that boys may be strengthened in mind and body in preparation for responsible citizenship. As this dialogue continued, into the room a number of boys began to filter and, as they came, they began activities with which they were obviously familiar. Among them was a young Puerto Rican boy clasping in his arms a small violin. With him was his mother. They had come to share with the scoutmaster the good news that the boy had been selected to learn to play the violin at school with the hope, in time, of playing in the school orchestra. It was evident they considered the scoutmaster a friend who would share their excitement at this good news. Was scouting significant to that boy and to his neighborhood? Vitally! I was one of the two Relief Society women: involved in this account, having been invited to the national headquarters of the Boy Scouts of America not only because of my Relief Society position but also by reason of the large numbers of women with whom I am affiliated as President of the National Council of Women of the United States. The Boy Scouts of America leaders desired that I receive orientation regarding the scouting program, its goals and long-range plans, with the end in view of bringing these to the attention 

255 April 1970

 of women and of urging closer ties with the BSA, particularly by mothers having sons served by scouting. Our hosts explained that too many mothers both in the ghettos and across America are content to enroll their sons in scouting and send them off to scout meetings with confidence that it is a safe place for the boys to spend their time. Scouting cannot be completely successful without mothers becoming more aware of the purposes of the organization—so said our hosts. As was stated in a pamphlet published by BSA in 1969 entitled "Boy Power—Man Power," scouting wishes to be a co-partner with "families and institutions of the nation to help prepare a new generation with the skill and confidence to master tthe changing demands of America's future and prepare to give leadership to it." (BSA Pamphlet: "Boy Power—Man Power," 1969, p. 5) Those leaders who form the underpinning of scouting -in America are men of character, of integrity, of great. Vision, and dedication. They are men of faith who have deep moral convictions; they are innovative and courageous—a truly moving, effective force for good in our nation! I am convinced that the program, the goals, the purposes, and the Boy Scouts of America are worthy of the active support and involvement of women everywhere. Scouting is far more than a recreational program with emphasis on physical fitness—it is a _ great social movement motivated by high-purposes and goals. BE LATE A LITTLE Let spring be late this year; let it delay Its coming, its singing, surging throb, its heady Greening under, over... Just one more day Be late. Tomorrow, maybe I'll be ready. Too much of hurt in me would seek the dark, Would hide a little longer all my tears, Would turn from spring, from song of meadowlark, To grieve my broken dream, to stay my fears. And yet the new grass covers winter's theft Where: searing frost broke continuity, And cleansing sunshine burns out all alloy; Perhaps the spring will heal where I'm bereft, Renew self-faith, repair inadequacy; Oh, spring, wait, just till I can bear your joy.