[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 266 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Portia Nelson paints, sings, plays the piano, coaches singers, writes lyrics, music and dramatic scripts for television and moving pictures. She has also been highly praised as an actress by eminent critics. She attributes her versatility to her childhood activities in a Latter-day Saint home and community on a ranch eighty miles north of Salt Lake City. ''Mormons believe you learn by doing, so their children get up and say a piece, or sing or play an instrument. I was putting on shows when I was just a child,'' says Miss Nelson. Dr. Mina Rees, who became a mathematician '"'because it was fun,'' has now been chosen the first woman president-elect of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This is the largest scientific society in the United States. She also heads the graduate division of the University of New York. 266 Dr. Rita Hauser, thirty-four, of New York City, mother of two small children, is an international lawyer, linguist, and _ political economist. She and her husband, Gustave M. Hauser, were the first scholars sent from the United States to France in a new comparative law program sponsored by the Ford Foundation. Dr. Hauser believes dissent among college students, when nonviolent, is healthy, but it should be confined to ideas of genuine value to society. Under those conditions students should be listened to; their ideas merit consideration. Joan Beck, who writes a syndicated column read by millions, ''You and Your Child," has now written a challenging book, How to Raise a Brighter Child: The Case for Early Learning. This is called a ''blueprint'' for increasing your child's brain power without ''pushing."' Pamela Dee Tedesco, an active member of the Arcadia Ward, Pasadena Stake, California, and an honor student majoring in sociology at Pasadena City College, was chosen from among 474 contestants for the enviable role of Queen of the Tournament of Roses Parade on New Years Day, 1970. Flower floats of magnificent, highly imaginative artistry were entered from countless sources and America watched the astonishing procession. Pamela does volunteer work at Maryvale Girls Home, works at a department store, teaches a junior Sunday School class, and particularly enjoys her college institute class. She feels that her Church activities were an important element in preparing her to win this high distinction.