VOL. XXIII OCTOBER, 1936 No. 10
Editorials Our Meetings Resume
AFTER a long vacation we again take up our courses of study, which we are sure will be greatly enjoyed by our members. The Theological Lessons, the Teacher's Topics and the Project all are on the New Testament. The unity of these three lines of work will make for greater concentration and scholarship.
While we believe many of our organizations will devote most of their time on Work and Business Day to sewing for the needy and in carrying out plans made by their own Stake supervisors, there will be printed in the Magazine for those who desire such an outline some suggestive helps for Work and Business day.
The Literary lessons will move more slowly than heretofore, as we are taking but three biographies, devoting three lessons to each. At the close of the season we should be well acquainted with Alice Freeman Palmer, Abraham Lincoln as portrayed by Carl Sandburg, and Julia Ward Howe.
The Social Service Lessons should make us socially minded and rouse our interest in civic affairs. While the Child Guidance lessons are primarily for mission use, we hope that all our officers and members will read them carefully, as they are most valuable.
DURING the last two or three years our music has forged forward, and the establishment of Singing Mothers Choruses in most of our organizations has been a delightful feature of our work. Their beautiful singing has been recognized outside of the organization, and they have given service in conferences and many other gatherings.
The summer has been busily spent in sewing, putting up fruit and vegetables and preparing supplies for the winter's needs. This service will not only greatly bless those in need, but those who have worked, as it is not enough that kindly emotions be aroused, but they should always have an outlet. Our horizon has been widened. We no longer think in terms of wards or stakes, but of the needs of the entire Church.
Again the Relief Society women have demonstrated their willingness to serve and their ability to answer each call made upon them by those having the authority so to do. We hope this year that the lessons will be studied more widely than ever before, and that there will be more general participation in the class work. We grow not by having things poured into us but by studying and thinking ourselves.
During our past season our membership increased, our Magazine subscriptions went beyond our fondest anticipations, and every department of our work showed marked progress. This year we should do better than ever before. Each stake and ward should look over its past record, to ascertain what part of the work needs added attention in order to build up its fortifications so as to make what was heretofore weak, strong.
We extend love and best wishes to our officers and members. May the results of this season's work be greater than their fondest dreams can picture.