Columbus
"If Christopher Columbus is the man who, according to the common historical view, shut the door upon the Middle Ages and inaugurated a new world and a new age, the moment when those three paltry vessels left that Spanish harbor is one of the most epoch-making in the history of humanity."
"It is extraordinarily striking to observe, from the detached point of view which the long-completed cycle of events enables us to take, how a great man's star draws him, as though by a never-failing magnetic force, to his appointed end: whatever he does or whatever he fails to do, every error, every neglect, every apparent defeat even, does actually and inevitably bring him nearer to the hour of fulfilment."
PEOPLE who ardently work letting nothing daunt them often attain greater achievements than their fondest dreams presage. This was true of Columbus. As one inspired he struggled on through every discouragement, refusing to be dissuaded when his emprise was called foolish, when he was mocked at, laughed at, scorned. Reduced to beggary he was so conscious of his destiny that he pressed on. His hair turned gray, his face became lined, yet he did not lose hope. He suffered humiliation and bitterness, but with determined zeal he continued to seek means to attain his goal. When he was asked who he was, he replied, "I am called Christobal Colon. I am a sea captain from Genoa, and I must beg my bread because Kings will not accept the Empires that I offer them."
He worked tirelessly, yet for a long time there were no apparent fruits. Rejected again and again one wonders at his determination. When he obtained audience with the Queen, while she could not understand him, yet she could not resist the impression he made upon her. The fierce flame that burned in his heart moved her. Thoughtful men considered Columbus' idea ridiculous, for, said they, profound philosophers had made the conformation of the world the subject of their inquiries, and skillful seamen had for thousands of years produced trustworthy evidence on the matter. It was something more than presumption for a common man to maintain that so great a discovery as he promised had been reserved for him alone. The Queen's husband viewed the undertaking coldly and had a whole party on his side, yet the Queen seemingly could not turn away from Columbus' proposals. Finally he won. No wonder he asked, "Who can doubt but that the Holy Ghost inspired me?"
Three ships, the Santa Maria, Pinta, and Nina, set sail. Those who accompanied him were full of fear and horror. They felt there was no goal before them, that they had no destined end but the imagination of the Admiral. When their ships danced around, twisting "like vessels of clay on a maddening whirling potter's wheel, they felt as though they were bullets from a sling hurled across the roaring seas into the void."
FOR long weeks they sailed. Again and again Columbus was urged to turn back, but with iron-like determination he insisted that they sail on and on. The men complained of the length of the voyage, but the Admiral encouraged them by pointing out what they would get from the expedition. His determination to reach India remained unshakable. He realized that every day their position became more hazardous. Again and again they thought they saw mountains and cities in the distance, but these proved to be hallucinations. The ships were not built for so long a voyage and many wondered how they would manage the return journey. There was not a port where they could re-fit and get provisions. Their supplies were growing scanty. They threatened mutiny, but despair was as futile as revolt, since in the last resort all depended on him. They felt he possessed a magic that made him more powerful than any man they had ever seen.
FINALLY came the long looked for sight. On October 12, 1492, a white heap of sand was sighted and the shout of "land, land" enlivened the crew. Reverently Columbus knelt on the newly discovered country and offered praise to Almighty God. He had gained not the route to India that he sought, but a new world. Surely he was inspired. Shortly before his death he wrote to the Spanish sovereigns: "For my voyage to the Indies I had no help from reason, mathematics, or maps of the world? it was but a fulfilment of what had been foretold by the Prophet Isaiah. Before the end of the world all prophecies must come to fulfilment, the Gospel must be preached throughout the earth and the Holy City given back to the Church of Christ. God has chosen to work a mighty miracle through my discovery."
HUNDREDS of years before this with prophetic vision Nephi saw Columbus' mission, for he says: "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land."
Yes, God has worked a mighty miracle. Through his discovery America has become a light enlightening the world; it has become a land of liberty, the home of opportunity, a refuge for the downtrodden, the place of gathering for modern-day Israel, a promised land held in reserve for the gathering of a people who would prepare the earth for Christ's Second Coming.