ONLY A MOTHER COULD UNDERSTAND By Janey Haefeli
When your tiny head was pillowed Slumbering sweetly on my breast, When I carried you so gently Laid you in your crib to rest, When I curled your silken tresses Taught your lips to lisp each day, Guided faltering tiny footsteps All through childhood's happy way, I thought not of darkened future When you'd travel far away.
When alone each day, and lonely, How I'd miss you, and I'd pray For the Lord to guide your footsteps By His spirit, day by day Safe from harm and temptation Where'er you chanced to stray.
How I'd long, and wait with patience For the day of your return. When you grew to be the stronger No more for my arms you'd yearn. How the hours would drag with waiting Days would seem like weary years. Life would scarce seem worth the living With force I'd stay the choking tears.
How as weary weeks go onward Each one like the one before, No more children's joyous prattle No more sound of banging door, No more romping, shouting, singing. All?is silent?as the grave? Had I foreseen all the heartaches I doubt if I'd have been so brave,
To suffer, love and sacrifice, Just to raise a restless brood, Left alone some day and lonely, When my birdlings took the mood.
But no! 'twas worth the sorrow The heart aches and the pain To meet the smiles and loving Arms, as each comes home again.
I would not change it if I could Those years mean all to me Those precious lips, those clinging Arms, life's precious memory.
Alone, I live again those precious Years; each clever little saying Each smile, each chubby little hand Left lasting prints upon my heart Only a mother, could understand. Social Security and You
WOULD YOU Support a record in Public Relief Administration and Welfare Service surpassed in no other state in the Nation, and Endorse a forward looking Program for Social Security that has won Nation-wide recognition?
A RECORD WHICH DESERVES SUPPORT
Placed Utah in front ranks of states administering Federal Social Security benefits.
Provided sympathetic program for relief of needy of all classes and support of state's Social, Economic and Business Life.
Reduced State property tax levies and provided sound financial management with lower debts and other relief to property taxpayer.
Vote For Governor BLOOD And All Democratic Candidates (Paid Political Advertisement)
When Buying Mention 
ONLY GAS HEAT gives you all these advantages
? 100% Automatic Operation. ? No ordering of fuel. ? Dustless. ? Fuel of uniform quality. ? No moving parts to wear out. ? Fuel of uniform price. ? Smokeless, stokeless, ashless. ? No storage space required.
Many families, using all-gas service, heat their homes with gas for less money than they formerly paid for other fuels. Let us give you a free estimate of costs for your home.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Salt Lake City Wasatch 1300
USE Utah Beet Sugar For Better Results
When Buying Mention 
THE CONSTITUTION
The Constitution of the United States assures to women full equality as citizens and guarantees to them the right to hold any public office. The present tendency in government throughout the world is toward dictatorship. Wherever dictatorships are established the rights of women are completely disregarded. The tendency of the New Deal administration to disregard the constitution and to effect centralization of power at Washington, should be resented by every woman in America. Respect for the Constitution and preservation of our American ideals is the guarantee of the people of America against the assumption of too much power by those elected to office. The people of Utah generally believe that the Constitution is a divinely inspired document. The Republican party is pledged to the perpetuation of constitutional government. It is pledged to preserve the ideals that have made this the greatest nation on earth. The Republican party invites your support of its candidates.
ALFRED M. LANDON, President COLONEL FRANK KNOX, Vice-President RAY E. DILLMAN, Governor KEITH WAHLQUIST, Secretary of State BYRON D. ANDERSON, Attorney General EDSEL CHRISTENSEN, Treasurer D. K. MOFFATT, Auditor E. E. GREENWOOD, Supt. Public Instruction JUSTICE ELIAS HANSEN, Justice Supreme Court CHARLES W. DUNN, Congressman, 1st Cong. District JUDGE V. A. WATKINS, Congressman, 2nd Cong.