HOME ETHICS
======================================================================

HOME ETHICS Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. (a) Respect and mutual interest in the home. (b) No one person is independent of any and all other persons. (c) The home circle may be compared to an intricate piece of machinery. (d) Parents are responsible for order and system in their homes, or for the lack of that condition. (e) Children pattern largely after their parents. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 (f) Respect for right and authority begin at home. (g) Washington and Lincoln merit respect and love. (h) Parents should be the confidants and companions of their children, (i) No worldly pleasure can ever compensate a mother for the loss of one soul from her own family, (j) To our pioneer fathers and mothers we owe respect, love and veneration. Respect and Mutual Interest in the Home. In every complete and perfectly ordered home, there should be mutual interest existing between all the members and inmates thereof. Fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, should be bound together, not shutting out the help employed in the family. Each person is in a large way dependent on every other person. The home circle is, in comparison, similar to a fine piece of machinery, every little cog, brace or balance-wheel, has its duty to perform and is alike important in its own particular place. Order and system, respect and reverence in the home, are largely in the hands of parents, or guardians. Their example permeates every branch and corner of the home nest. Children copy largely from fathers and mothers in what they do; therefore, how necessary it is that the parents plan and achieve right and proper ends. If the interest of the heads of the home be cemented with their children's best interests, all who enter such an abode will feel and recognize the sweet and precious influence. Respect begins in the immediate family; it is gained or lost around the hearthstone. The standard of each household is measured by the true faith, love, honor and dignity maintained in that elementary community. "When we read the histories of foreign countries and their leaders' lives, and compare them with those of our own America, we cannot fail to appreciate and revere our great "Washington, the founder, and Lincoln, the preserver, of our Union. Their example, under the most trying difficulties, is worthy of emulation. The respect, the love, and the united interest, which these two men inspired, even in their colored servants and humblest subjects, are truly admirable and praiseworthy. Respect is essential to success in every walk in life respect; for the rights of others, and for mutual interest engenders respect for ourselves and our own rights. In the home it is necessary to show interest in what the children do, in their friends, their pleasures and in their education; we should show interest in their religious, mental,  8 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN moral, and social life we should read the literature they read, ; and thus understand what effect their pursuits have upon their characters. We should discuss with them the subjects that lie near their hearts, be companions and confidants to them. Mothers will suffer more regret, more sorrow, over one beautiful soul lost through lack of proper care, than they will receive pleasures in all that the world can ever offer. 'Tis not our province to give lengthy topics along "Home Ethics," but, dear sisters, we do wish to impress you with faith and belief in the importance of proper family life and its great responsibility. As we sit here thinking and writing, our mind goes back over a long life. We see our childhood again, and the worthy, noble, heroic, good men and women, our parents and pioneers, who have left a heritage, better, stronger and more lasting to us, than all the wealth, grandeur or distinction of this world. Their sacrifice of all they possessed on the altar of principle; their unsullied life work; their patient surmounting of difficulties all these are precious bequests to us by our valiant fathers and mothers, the "Mormon" pioneers! Their hope and faith in God, their respect for each other, and their united interest in the Church leaders and in their homes, brought to them success and spiritual victory, and to us, their descendants, these virtues should be as rich heritages. April HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) *'In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand for thou knowest not whether shall prosper; this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good." Eccles. 2:6. The home garden should be situated in the richest and best land to be found in the whole city lot and if it is not, it; should be made so by proper drainage, and fertilization. It should be given plenty of sunlight, and removed from the shade of fences and trees. With these conditions favorably worked out, with good, selected seeds, with care taken in planting, and with the usual average climatic conditions, there is no reason why it should not be a most successful garden. Let taste and space determine first of all what shall be planted.  Asparagus. A perennial plant of the lily family, largely developed by cultivation, and which is grown as an article of RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 food. It is propagated in beds heavily mulched, the young shoots being the only portion eaten. It is one of the earliest spring vegetables. It should not be cut after the middle of June, when it should be left to seed and dry down preparatory for the next season's crop; during the cutting season, cut the stalks deep down in the earth, and keep them cut constantly if you wish them to be tender and brittle. Asparagus requires plenty of water and sunshine to create rapid growth. Beets. Beets are well known vegetables, valued as food owing to the large quantities of sugar they contain. There are four kinds of beets cultivated, the common beet, the Chard, the Sea and the mangel-wurzel. They are easily grown, and very profitable for table use.  Peas and Beans. There are many varieties of each suitable for our climate. Peas can be planted much earlier than beans, as they are not so easily nipped by the frost. Stake as soon as they begin to form tendrils. Keep off the ground, as they sometimes mildew; as soon as the first crop yields, plant another, and you will have new peas and beans all season. Let us recommend for your use the Telephone, Marrow-fat, and an early pea called the Tom Thumb. These are of the finest varieties grown. Keep the soil loose and well hilled up around the plants.  Rhubarb. Homely old rhubarb is the best blood tonic, and the easiest grown of almost any plant in the world, once you get it well rooted. The plant bulbs or doubled tuber roots can be taken up and divided year after year and replanted until you and all your friends have rhubarb the season through. In the fall when the leaves have died down, loosen the dirt around the roots, cover with rotted manure, and as soon as the snow is melted in the spring, rake off part of its covering and place old barrels or pans over the top. This gives extra warmth and draws the sun, and before you are aware, the red and green tops are pushing their way through the earth. Give plenty of water and keep the soil loose about the plants.  Sage. Sage is an extensive genus of plants of the mint family which is widely distributed in warm regions, embracing 450 species. Most varieties are perennials of shrubby nature. It is very easily grown, and should be sown in open ground and kept well watered and hoed. It is used extensively for flavoring meat, especially for dressing in poultry, and the leaves are employed in making a slightly stimulating tea. Sage seed can be purchased at any seed store, and should be planted in 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN shallow trenches and covered lightly. Just pluck the leaves and the stalks will dry down. Parsley. Parsely one of the most used and easily is grown herbs, having almost an endless life. It can be sown on top of well prepared soil, lightly raked in and patted down with a hoe. Keep well sprinkled, but do not get discouraged as it requires some thirty days before you see little Miss Parsely peeping through the ground. Do not pull up, but cut off the tops. It will soon grow again, and can be taken up in the fall, put in pots or boxes, and kept in the kitchen window green all winter for table use. If I only had a piece of ground 2x6 feet, I'd have all the above named things planted on it.  Flowers. Marigold, Phlox, Zinnias, Nasturtiums, BachelorButtons, Lark Spur, Columbines, etc., are the old-fashioned flowers our mothers used to grow. All are grown from seed, and require about similar conditions to make them mature. Let us put on our bonnets, walk out in the sunshine and begin now to plan for our garden, and choose from nature's gift some of its wonderful plant life to fill our lives with new thoughts and new ambition.  Sweet Peas. Just a word about these beautiful flowers. Sweet peas can be grown almost anywhere, where soil and sunshine meet. Like all other plants, success begins with the seeds, although home-grown seed is less likely to be satisfactory than are the home-grown Bachelor-Buttons or Cosmos, or almost any other common garden flower. Preparation of the soil is now the first thing to consider; drainage is also an important factor towards success. It is almost impossible to plant too early. As soon as able to work the ground, one may get ready to plant sweet peas. Let us next consider getting the seed well down in the ground. Dig a trench about a  foot deep and six inches wide now pulverize the soil taken out, see that it is rich and somewhat sandy  partly fill in the  trench leaving about four inches to be filled in later sprinkle either margin of the trench with the pea seed, then cover with about two inches of soil. They are strong and vigorous, and will soon find their way through the covering. Keep the soil loose, adding more as the plants grow, until the trench is filled and on a level with the rest of the garden plot. Stick in at once plenty of good strong willows, and do not over-water. In July, August and September you will be amply paid for all time and money spent, for each day you will be able to pluck great handfuls of these fragrant and sweet butterfly-like flowers. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 April