ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
======================================================================

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Sak*Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City, 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Sa't Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. F. J. NICHOLS C. C. CRISMON GOLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255-257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah modern methods complete equipment efficient service SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THEL D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THK WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Vol 1. April, 1914. No. 4 Editor Mrs. Susa Yoxing Gate Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building:, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

CHARITY AND FAITH. "Charity Never Faileth." This motto has been adopted by the Relief Society, and indeed it seems most applicable for our organization, whose chief work is in that direction. The New Testament abounds in texts upon this and relative subjects and the daily life of the Savior is replete with testimony of His acts of charity and deeds of mercy and kindness, setting for his followers this pattern of going about doinggood. In the lives of the sisters who devote themselves to Relief Society work, we see the resemblance to those who followed the example of the Master; ministering to the wants of the needy and the sick and the sorrowing, and coming into the homes of the people like rays of sunshine. It is truly a labor of love to go among the people with a cheerful countenance, proving that there is a delight in the work of scattering sunshine as well as sowing seed that will spring up and yield good fruit; and persuading those whom they visit to live lives of usefulness and not neglect the duties and obligations that devolve upon all who would have the spirit of the Gospel within their hearts. In this way only can we become recipients of the blessings that follow in the pathway of those that love the Lord. The Savior himself said: "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments;" and this must not be simply in form and ceremony but from the heart, and with an abiding faith in God and in his Son, Jesus Christ, ^he Savior of the world. 2 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN "Strong Son of God Immortal Love, "Whom we who have not seen Thy Face By faith and faith alone embrace, Believing where we cannot prove." Faith must be the foundation upon which to build the; apostle says: "Faith without works is dead." In the Relief Society and in the home there is abundant opportunity to manifest our faith by our works. The sisters should not lose sight of the principles of Faith, Hope and Charity, and we might add to these, Mercy, which we are told in the scriptures, endureth forever. Beloved sisters, do not be afraid of being thought oldfashioned if you continue to bear testimony, for in this way your own faith and the faith of others is strengthened. The testimony of the Gospel carries with it light and we help; others even more than we are aware, when we impart of that which we have received. We must not become weary in welldoing, but keep our Gospel Armor bright, being diligent in season and out of season to preserve in our lives and in the hearts of the children of Zion the living testimony of the truth, that we may not be found wanting in energy and in diligence in the latter-day work. It is worth every effort we can put forth, this "prize of the high calling.'' It is difficult to realize all that the Gospel implies, all that it means to this generation now living, the height and depth and intelligence necessary to comprehend it in its fullness. When we look back and take into consideration the principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph and which he taught to the people during the few years of his ministry, we can only exclaim in the language of the Bible, "a marvelous work and a wonder;" and we cannot doubt, if we take time to consider, that he could have been instructed in and prepared for his work only by the Lord himself; for he received thoughts and truths that had been hidden from before the foundations of this world were laid. The Relief Society since its first organization has done a great work, not only materially but spiritually, and the women engaged in this work have grown in grace and in knowledge of right living. Many of those who have been valiant in the work have passed away and another generation is on the stage of action. Comparatively few of the veterans of the Society are now living to instruct and persuade and remind these younger members of the conditions and the struggles associated with the establishment of the Relief Society. But what an education, both temporal and spiritual, the Society has been to the women who have labored in it Those who have devoted! I BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 time and effort in helping to build it up and maintain it have been marvelously blessed and benefited, and have received true knowledge, surpassing in many respects the benefits derived from schools and colleges. The writer has sometimes thought that a mission was more beneficial to boys and young men than a college course; and the sisters have a parallel opportunity in the Belief Society if they do their work well and acquit themselves honorably. Let them therefore live up to the highest standard of excellence as a people we should be a; light to the world, "a city set upon a hill." Let us be faithful and true, and cause our light to shine, so that others may follow that light. After all, light is life and we can not attain to great excellence without light. When the Lord created the earth on which we live he said, "Let there be light," and immediately at His command the world became a thing of beauty. Remember the parable of the virgins and be ye among the wise ones who kept their lamps trimmed and burning, that ye may be ready to meet the great bridegroom when he comes. EMMELINE B. "WELLS. EDITORIAL. TITHING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. If the statistics of the various quorums and auxiliary organizations in the Church could be segregated, we feel sure that the officers and members of the Relief Society would prove to be among the best and most faithful of tithe-payers. Not tithe-payers who contribute the greatest amount individually, but tithe-payers who are both diligent and honest in their dealings with the Lord. Women, as a rule, are less selfish, less grasping, and more willing to share their blessings with each other, and with the Lord, than men. The seventy odd years of training which our beloved Relief Society sisters have received in charitable and philanthropic works, have so imbued them with the spirit of true devotion and unselfish principle that tithing is an easy law for them to observe. There is, however, another duty that confronts the Relief Society workers in regard to this principle: it is not enough that we shall be tithe-payers ourselves, we must exercise all our powers in an endeavor to inculcate this principle in the minds of our children and grandchildren. Even then, our duty does not cease. We should encourage our husbands and our sons to be exact and scrupulous in the observance of this law. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Not by haranguing them, nor by nagging at them, for this policy will defeat the very end we are seeking to accomplish; but with loving tact and tender suggestion, coupled with constant prayer, we may help our husbands and our sons to keep the law. Having done all this, dear sisters, our duty is not discharged completely, for we should teach this principle in our Relief Society meetings, through exchanging our experiences, reading the Scriptures, and discussing the principle. Moreover, when the teachers visit the members, they may tactfully call attention to the observance of this principle by the housemother, and the children. To be sure, it is unwise for the Society teachers to criticize in any way the conduct of the Priesthood, in the home, but they are surely at liberty to admonish and encourage the women to observe the laws of God. Some women suppose that if their husbands and sons pay tithing, nothing is required of them, but the fact that our husbands and sons observe the Word of Wisdom, or keep holy the Sabbath day does not absolve us from obeying these laws. If we have any source of income, such as the sale of eggs, butter, or milk if we earn anything, either on the farm or in the city, ; we are in duty bound to tithe our earnings. Brigham Young once said to Sister Zina D. Young, that he regretted the fact that he had always paid the tithing for his family, and added that if he had his life to live over again, he would arrange matters so that every wife and child should be permitted to pay a personal tithing. Another fallacy is that some of our worthy poor, who are supported or assisted by the Relief Society or the Church, think they do not need to pay their tithing on what they thus receive. These sisters, who are so supported, are as much in duty bound to tithe their income as other women in the Church. A good widow who received ten dollars from the Church asked President Joseph F. Smith if it was required of her to tithe that small charity fund. He replied, most emphatically, in the affirmative; and this should be an example for all such cases. For unless we pay tithing, our names do not appear on the Church tithing records, and if they do not appear, we are under condemnation according to the word of the Lord, as recorded in Sec. 119, Doc. and Cov. Tithing is a principle with promise, and should be so considered and studied by the Relief Society. Has any other principle resulted in greater rewards to the faithful than this particular law? Sisters of the Relief Society, what are your opinions, and what are your practices in regard to tithing? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN April