Reaping of a Century wees P. Crawford. Here are the sheaves so bravely won For all the waiting world to see, We hold the harvest in our hands— The reaping of a century. And yet, because the yield is great, The gleaning rich with golden grain, We can never cease our planting And let an idle field remain. We still must pray for April rain And for the glad returning sun, We still must labor in the field— We cannot say our work is done; As long as ordered earth shall turn Around its long established track, The seed time shall return again And God will bring the autumn back; Forever in the field of life There will be hunger and a need For all the gleaning we can give— A waiting multitude to feed. Ever the field in wider span Shall be a place for us to grow, And we shall find our destiny In service where the valiant go; The bearded grain we reap today Shall be tomorrow's vital seed, The amber harvest rich and ripe Shall serve another urgent need; This golden reaping cannot be A latent span to lean upon, The challenge of our heritage Still beckons to a further dawn; We shall see again the bladed wheat In measured beauty on the field, We shall gain another harvest. And we shall glean tomorrow's yield! Note: This poem was written for a particular episode in the pageant "Woman's Century of Revealed Light'' which was to have been presented as a part of the Church-wide Relief Society centennial observance, to be held in Salt Lake City, and which was postponed due to the war. As this poem was being read, fifty golden-haired women were to have advanced down the aisles of the Tabernacle symbolic of the harvest of a century being carried into the new century. vol. 29, No.10 MI AGAZINE 3 octosse i942 if ~ Relief Society Rufus K. Hardy - Of the First Council of the Seventy N October of 1894, Robert Louis Stevenson influenced and inspired the chiefs of Samoa to open a thoroughfare across their island, which by them was called the "Road of Gratitude." It was cut through the rank tropical forests, and since its opening it has been kept in repair by the pure-blood tribal chiefs of Samoa. Addressing a letter to these chiefs on the above date he said: "Chiefs! Our road is not built to last a thousand years, yet in a sense it is. When a road is once built, it is a strange thing how it collects traffic, how every year as it goes on, more and more people ate found to walk thereon, and others are raised up to repair and perpetuate it and keep it alive." Later, because of this and his other great achievements, and _ because of the love of thousands for Stevenson, there was inscribed on a bronze memorial in St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh, Scotland, to his memory, this prayer: Give us grace and strength to forbear and to persevere, give us gaiety and a quiet mind, spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies. From tropical isle to the teeming centers of Europe went the beloved | name of Robert Louis Stevenson. This could not be retarded, for the life of Robert Louis Stevenson was motivated by love, compassion, human interest, and a brotherhood that embraced all races and all creeds. ARCH 17, 1842 a society was organized within the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by the Prophet Joseph Smith in which the tender, loving consideration of the women of the Church might find expression and function in the serv-. Ice of helping others. This organization has reclaimed many souls, supplied food for the hungry, stopped the crying mouths of babes, clothed those destitute, and acted as a veritable angel in keeping families together who had concluded divorce was the only Page 67] 672 remedy. In pioneer days when no doctors were available, Relief Society women, as midwives, brought children into the world; they dressed and prepared hundreds for burial, kept vigil at sick beds, permitting worn-out mothers to have a little much-needed rest. The Society has conducted regular meetings for its members in almost every part of the earth, teaching the membership, now Over 115,000, to appreciate and love the gentle teachings of Christ; to understand the Gospel revealed through Joseph Smith the Prophet; to read and study the religious history of the Americas and God's dealings with them as contained in the Book of Mormon; to study the classics, music, and science. To have its members gain a knowledge of world events and trends is also a part of the great program of Relief Society. The Society has thousands of splendid visiting teachers whose responsibility is to visit the homes and to receive contributions made to the Society. The great work of disbursing many charities is done smoothly and without one cent of cost to the Society.. All this is under the management of the women of the Church who receive no financial compensation, so that a dollar given to Relief Society for charity means one dollar distributed to those in need. Wonder of wonders—especially in our day! Thrift, industry, and prudence characterize the actions of this beneficent organization. In New Zealand, the Relief Society has been so busy helping to prepare the soldiers to leave for the front, making socks, mufflers, sweaters, gloves, etc., and also assisting their government in many other ways—as they did so nobly during the last -great catastrophe which came to that land in the form of an | earthquake—that they have become veritably indispensable. [' is necessary that every good influence be put to work at this crucial time, that personal grief and remorse and sorrow be trampled under the busy feet of this army of willing workers. You wives, sisters, and sweethearts of the men who have gone to war, or shall go, keep for them your best thoughts. Store these good thoughts up from week to week and send them in your letters to our beloved soldiers. What a wonderful thing a letter from the local Relief Society would be toa soldier boy; yes, it would be a breath of courage from his own ward and locality. It would cast a tay of sunshine that he would not forget. Your blessed organization has always been filled with angels of mercy; yes, and with stoics as well. Now is the time for personal urge and fixed response to your great privileges, with your trust always in Him who never fails. A short time ago, Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve, and I were met and greeted by thousands of men and women at Apia, Upolo, Samoa. Among this great throng stood four hundred women clothed in beautiful white dresses made from tappa cloth which was beaten from the bark of trees by their own hands. 'They were members of your renowned organization, the Relief Society. A little later, we sat at dinner with Govermor Turnbull of Samoa, and (Continued on page 689) The Hand Nephi L. Morris Venerable to me is the hard hand—crooked, coarse; wherein notwithstanding lies a cunning virtue, indefeasibly royal, as of the sceptre of this planet. N a determined effort to formulate a definition of man, Plato proposed the following: "Man is a two-legged animal, without feathers." Cynical Diogenes promptly plucked a rooster bare and stood it before his class with the introduc-. Tion: "Behold Plato's man!" Close examination disclosed that there was a differentiation which Plato had not seen; and that was in relation to the nails of the two animals. So they added "with broad flat nails." The amended definition stood as satisfactory down through many centuries until about a hundred years ago, when another definition was adopted. It described man as an animal of tools; and that still stands as it points out in substance a distinguishing difference between man and all the other animals which God placed on the earth back on the "border of time." When the erosive forces had produced fertility of soil, and the clouds were made to hang in the sky ready to moisten the earth by atmospheric change, and the life-giving sun had made the air vibrant with life and light, God came down and planted a garden in a favored spot wherein he placed man. His first great command to man was to multiply and replenish the earth and have dominion. Then, because of man's —Carlyle, '"Two Men." disobedience, he was expelled from his lovely garden called Paradise, and as a seeming penalty for his wrongdoing God said, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread." In other words, man was told to get to work. We are not told how much God did for man in the way of furnishing him with tools. Gardeners must have tools, however. One thing is certain, and that is that God gave man the hand. N° other animal on the earth has such a facile and altogether useful organ as the hand. Did you ever stop to consider the endless variety of functions which it performs so naturally? First of all, consider its mobility and flexibility. It is the one organ of the body that can minister to the local needs of the entire body —practically to every spot of it. First of all, in the matter of eating and drinking, then. The important matter of cleanliness, then in dressing a wound, or in the care of the hair, the nails, etc., the hand is indispensable. This flexibility is affected by the diversified variety of joints in the arm at the shoulder, where a ball-and-socket joint is the basis of its mobility. 'Then consider the elbow joint with flexing muscles and marvelous wrist and numerous finger joints, and, last of all, the "broad flat nails" back of the sensiPage 673 674 tive nerve centers at the finger tips, which make it possible for man to use such thing as a fine Cambric needle Or, as in surgery, to treat with instru- ° ments the delicate structure of the human eye and ear. - The hand, with four fingers and a thumb moving in opposition to each other, becomes the incomparable medium of expression which has done more for man's development and progress than any other bodily function. What the mind conceives, the hand expresses or executes. With the hand, man can fashion tools and wield them. Well might it be styled the "royal sceptre of this planet." Without the hand the human mother could not care for her newly born as well as does the eagle or the lioness. No soft fabrics could be woven to bind its little body. No nourishing food, suited to its needs, could be supplied when the first generous fountain became quenched in the mother's breast. Without the hand there could not have been constructed walls and a roof to shelter the mother and babe from the scorching sun of the tropics or the winter's chilling blast in more rigorous climates. We Learn to Do by Doing. OW very little did God do for man in the beginning beside giving him the raw material and the hand with which to work. He evidently intended that man should be a working animal. God made no domicile for man excent it were the cleft in the mountainside or the shades of the fading foliage of the forest. He provided no clothing for him beyond the pelts of wild animals or the fragile fig leaf. He made no couch for him to recline upon, except it were the cold earth in which he was destined to find his final rest. But what a wonderful journey has man traveled from these primitive conditions to the modern sanitary home, wholesome and artistic in all its appointments; from sheltering forests or mountain caves to solemn temples and gorgeous palaces; and from the skins of animals (save it were the fine-dressed furs) to the white and purple of the loom, or the broadcloth and woolen fabrics that come from the man-made devices developed into the mills of industry. Devices of man's invention are made possible only by the use of the handmade tools. And machines, after all, are but complicated tools that have made industry so productive as to make ample provision for the many and to produce wealth to the comfort of all. All such had their origin in this marvelous organ which is peculiar to man. 'There are tools as ponderous as locomotives, steam shovels, derricks, and cranes that lift thousands of tons, or instruments so delicate that man may weigh the dot of an "I" on a leadpenciled note, or measure the amount of heat thrown off by a small candle five miles away. This indicates the range of man's genius in supplying his increasing wants. God gave him a hand with which to fashion and use tools and thereby supply human needs and gratify man's desires. Sometimes the hand instinctively does that which the mind doesn't perceive. By work and specialized skills, man has conquered and subdued the earth until it yields in abundance to supply his needs. He has subdued the beasts THE HAND of the field until they are willing servants in bearing his burdens. Finally, he invents the wheel, the combustion chamber, and the automobile, and, thereby, with tools almost displaces the horse and the ox, his age-long servants. But the cow he has cultivated and improved to the highest degree of excellence until she has become the foster-mother of more than half the infants that are born in civilization. The fowls of the poultry industry are made more productive than ever as a superior source of food. With the submarine and the airplane, man has all but conquered the sea and the air. With the radio, time and space are reduced to mere modicums of inconvenience. 'The voice of man can be carried around the earth in so small a measure of time that it seems instantaneous. What is equally miraculous is that sounds of sublime beauty, or the reverse, may be graved by a needlepoint upon prepared substance and be made to repeat those recordings thousands of times at man's will and pleasure. IVILIZATION is said to consist of the changing of matter. The great science of architecture would have been no more than poetic fancy of grace and utility in the human mind, but for the hand which gives tangible expression to these concepts. It is the hand that brings forth in tangible form the sublimity of architecture. It is also expression which develops and unfolds the mind. A child, or an adult, may have its brain crammed full of impressions, tangled and chaotic, but is of little use until through the hand or 675 the tongue, those mental impressions can be comprehensively expressed. 'Without the hand and tools there would have been no characters defined to represent thought, no writing on tablets of clay or stone, nor any alphabet out of which to form words. There would have been no written language; no type; no paper; no books; no press. 'There would have been no fine arts, painting, sculpture, pottery, tapestry. -Without the hand, there would have been no weapons of defense, for physically man is no match for the ferocious beasts and brutes that roam the earth. But with the hand and its cunning skills, man is master of all. ° How pitiably helpless would the human infant be without the hand. It could not even crawl on all fours; it could not walk, but for the aid of the hand; the infant's many falls in learning to stand erect are softened by the protective mobility and the strength of the hand. When it takes its first steps, it is done with the aid of the hand. And when grown to physical efficiency, it uses the hands as an aid in walking. When old and bent with the burden of many years man still walks with increased reliance on the hand, only then he holds a supporting staff in his grasp to make his enfeebled step more sure. And when he finally reaches the end of the long journey, it is by the kind and loving hands of others that he is gently borne to his final rest where he may rest from all his labors. "My right hand is to me as a god," said Virgil. No one can fully consider the marvels of the hand without acknowledging the divine intelligence which made it. Annie Wells ——_— _