In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER X INTERESTING PEOPLE travels as an officer in the Relief Society, I have met many interesting and important people, nonmembers of our Church, some of whom I shall introduce to my readers. I have also visited a number of very interesting homes. I would like [T° connection with my work and to say at the outset that I have often. Observed that no matter how important and famous people are, they are only men and women after all; that human nature is much the same wherever found; and that people who are really great are often more humble, charitable, understanding, and more free from prejudice than many others. Madame Mountford Madame Mountford (Lydia von Finkelstein. Mountford), famous world traveler and lecturer on the Holy Land—the customs, religions, and historical relations of the people, and on Oriental life in general—was one of the greatest living exponents of the Bible. She made several visits to Utah and gave a series of lectures in Oriental costume in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. Through Professor Alice L. Reynolds, a mutual friend, I had the opportunity of meeting Madame Mountford personally on a number of occasions and of learning quite intimately of her interesting life and great work. She was a large, powerful, handsome woman, and as she appeared before her audiences in OriPage 690 ental costume, she was very effective. She was an eloquent and dramatic speaker, with a voice that was easily heard throughout the 'Tabemacle. She had lectured in most of the Christian countries of the world, and in thought she took us to these countries. } She attended the Relief Society April Conference in 1899 and gave an interesting and eloquent address. She promised to represent the Mormons truthfully wherever she went, and this she did ever after. Charlotte Perkins Gillman Charlotte Perkins Gillman, niece of Henry Ward Beecher, famous sociologist, brilliant lecturer and author, appeared on the public platform in Utah a number of times, and never failed to visit her Relief Society friends in Salt Lake City. On her visit in 1912, the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association gave a large reception for her in the Relief Society board room. In 1919, she spent one whole day with us in the office discussing social and economic problems as well as Mormon beliefs and practices, and as she chatted she sat knitting on a lovely blue shawl. It seemed remarkable to me that such a busy woman, such an intellectual expert, could be so domestic as to knit. In 1917, at the National Conference of Social Work in Pittsburgh, Mrs. Gillman, who was one of IN RETROSPECT 691 ry FOUR PRESIDENTS OF NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN Left to right: Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, 1911-1916; Mrs. Philip N. Moore, 1916-1925; Dr. Valeria H. Parker, 1925-1929; Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, 1931-1935 the principal speakers, took me as her special guest to a dinner given in her honor by the officials of the Conference. May Wright Sewall May Wright Sewall of Indiana, one of the most brilliant and scholarly women of her day, great friend and champion of Mormon women, first visited Utah in . At that time, as the president of the International Council of women, she was for four days the guest of the General Boards of Relief Society and Y. W. M.1. A. She not only made interesting addresses before the women's groups of our city, but she spoke at the Sunday services in the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle on the subject of "Internationalism." I was greatly thrilled to meet Mrs. Sewall at a large reception given in her honor by Emily S. Richards, our own suffrage leader and Relief Society General Board member, at her beautiful home. In 1913, Mrs. Sewall again visited Utah as guest of the Mormon women. During the several days she was here, she made the Relief Society office her headquarters. Here she received mail, wrote letters, received callers, and planned the remainder of her lecture tour. As general secretary, I was delegated to be at her service, to keep track of her appointments, go on errands, and help her in any way that she desired. Her abounding energy, her ability to make short-cuts in her work, to arrive at quick decisions, and her gifts as a conversationalist, a public speaker and writer were remarkable. She had several conferences with President Joseph F. Smith and thanked him for his support of the Church women in connection with their - membership in the Council and appealed to him for a continuation of this support and encouragement. She told President Smith that the work of the Mormon women had done much to create the good will now existing toward the Mormon people as a whole. Lady Aberdeen I first met Lady Aberdeen of Great Britain, president of the International Council of Women for a period of thirty-six years, at the Congress of 692 Jane Addams Mary E. Richmond Women held at the San Francisco Fair in 1915. Accompanied by Lord Aberdeen, she was touring the country giving lectures to raise funds for her philanthropic work in Ireland. I was authorized by the General Boards of Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. To extend an invitation to the Aberdeens to include Salt Lake City in their tour and to give a series of lectures in Utah. I felt rather shy and uncomfortable about performing this task since I had never before had any contact with English nobility or titled foreigners from any country. Lady Aberdeen, always democratic and approachable, soon put me at ease, however, and she very readily accepted the invitation. Lord and Lady Aberdeen were royally entertained in Salt Lake City with luncheons and banquets; and her lecture at the Salt Lake Theatre was well attended and _ successful. Susa Young Gates was general chairman of arrangements for this visit. Sister Jeannette A. Hyde and I were asked by the general committee to serve as escorts to these distinguished visitors on their trips to Ogden, Logan, and Provo. The Logan trip was assigned to me. I found these Dr. Anna G. Spencer Grace Abbott titled people not only appreciative but very interesting traveling companions. I was surprised to see among their luggage a rather large, black, rectangular wooden box, and wondered why it had been brought along. The | mystery was solved when at about 4:00 p. M. Lord Aberdeen put it on the seat opposite them, opened it up and set about to prepare "tea." The box contained an alcohol stove, a thermos bottle with hot water, a tea pot, cups and saucers, trays, a small bed-table, bread and butter, and a variety of small cakes. Without any help whatever from Lady Aberdeen, he prepared and served "tea," which they greatly relished, as ably as any woman. This was a strange procedure to me then, going to all this trouble and eating so near to the dinner hour, but while living in Europe later I found that afternoon "tea" is a real institution observed even at theatre matinees and in all places of business. I met Lady Aberdeen later at meetings of the International Council in Washington, D. C. In 1925, YugoSlavia in 1936, and in Scotland in 1938, and on all of these occasions IN RETROSPECT she spoke of her pleasant visit to Utah, of her good friends here, and of those interesting side trips to Logan, Ogden, and Provo. Lady Aberdeen, a countess in her own right, was a great humanitarian and philanthropist, an outstanding organizer, an eloquent speaker, and an able writer. She was, I think, better known to the women of the world than any other woman in public life. She always maintained that it is one of the duties of women to help to maintain the peace of the world. Baroness Boel It was a real pleasure to me to meet and become acquainted with Baroness Boel of Belgium who succeeded Lady Aberdeen in 1936 as president of the International Council. After her election at the Yugo-Slavia meeting, she received the delegates from each country separately. 'There were three of us from the United States. She talked to us at length in good English and pleaded for the continuation of the interest and support of the women of the United States. Her knowledge of the work of the women throughout the world was amazing. She is an humanitarian and an experienced public worker. She is large in stature and large of heart. Her knowledge of the three official languages of the Council—French, English, and German—is a great asset. Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer When I met Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer of New York in 1921, she told me of her first acquaintance with Mormon women thirty-three years before at the organization meeting of the Council in Washington, D. C. May Wright Sewall Madame Lydia von F. Mountford in 1888, and how all down through the years she had met with pleasure each new delegate from Utah. She never failed to show me courtesies which I greatly appreciated. For a number of years before her passing in 1931 at age eighty, she was the only one left who had attended that early meeting when, as a promising young woman of thirty-seven years, she had appeared on the program. Mrs.. Spencer was the last link in the organization which connected the early women leaders with those of today. She was one of the rarest spirits and one of the most gifted women of her time. She was slight in figure, but straight as an arrow; delicate physically, but possessed of a powerful intellect and remarkable mental clarity. At the close of a discussion she was able quickly to eliminate all irrelevant matter and to bring together in logical arrangement that which was of value. As a public worker she was original, resourceful, constructive, and wise. She was greatly beloved personally for these qualities and also for her gentleness, modesty, frankness, honesty, and the sweetness of her nature. Mrs. Spencer was known as a suf- 694 fragist, a philanthropist, preacher (ordained ), teacher, and writer. She had been a special lecturer in several great universities and on the day before her last illness, she gave a lecture in her course on "The Family" before 178 students at Columbia University—and this in her eightieth year. As an author, her best known books are The Care of Dependent, Neglected and Wayward Children, and The Family and Its Members. Four Presidents of National Council The four presidents of the National Council of Women, whom I as a delegate and officer came to know well, were Dr: Kate Waller Barrett, of Alexandria, Virginia (1911-1916), Mrs. Philip N. Moore (Eva Perry), of St. Louis, Missouri (1916-1925), Dr. Valeria H. Parker, of New York City (1925-1929), and Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, of New York City (1931-1935), all remarkable women —women large of soul, free from prejudices, ardent crusaders for right, with a keen sense of justice. They were outstanding as executives and presiding officers. All four have visited Utah on a number of occasions when the Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. Have had the honor of entertaining them. All of them have been friends to Mormon women and, whenever occasion called for it, have warmly defended them. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett Dr. Kate Waller Barrett was a philanthropist, sociologist, physician, and a fluent and attractive public speaker. She was a highly intellectual woman of rare culture, beauty, and grace, with a magnetic personality and bottomless sympathy. Until the time of her death, she was president and general superintendent of the national Florence Crittenton Mission which provides home care for unfortunate unmarried mothers. Mrs. Barrett was a typical Southern lady, a kinswoman of General Robert E.. Lee, and presided over a typically hospitable Southern home, in which I had the opportunity of being her guest. Mrs. Philip N. Moore Mrs. Philip N. Moore was one of my closest and choicest friends in the National Council. _She served very efficiently as president for nine years. Her husband, a noted civil engineer, was an acquaintance and friend of my husband, and when I first met Mrs. Moore at a board meeting held in her own home in St. Louis in 1918, she immediately took me under her wing and was ever after _a kind, devoted and motherly friend. She made me feel that I was helpful - to her in the business affairs of the Council, and always welcomed me heartily as a delegate to the meetings. Some of the choicest letters I have ever received were from Eva Perry Moore. When the nominating committee asked me to run for recording secretary in 1925, I rather hesitated, feeling that there might be enough prejudice against a Mormon woman holding such an important office as to precipitate unpleasantness and possible unfavorable publicity. Mrs. Moore called me to her hotel room the evening before the election to discuss the matter, and when I told her why I hesitated, she said: "Just leave that to me," which I did. I IN RETROSPECT was unanimously elected to the office next day. Mrs. Moore came to the Council aS a representative of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the largest member organization. When the women of that organization were given the privilege of nominating the new president for. The Council in 1916 they chose Mrs. Moore, for a number of years president of their own organization, whom they considered their most outstanding member. She was a fine public speaker and one of the ablest executives and presiding officers in the country. She conducted the regular business affairs of an organization with efficiency and dispatch, and never appeared to better advantage publicly than when conducting great national meetings where good judgment, parliamentary skill, and poise are essential. She was a woman of whom all Americans could be proud. A prominent officer of the International Council said of her: "Mrs. Moore is one of the most intelligent. And attractive American women I have ever met. She has all of the qualities which make American women so much admired, and none of the purported failings which are sometimes credited to them." Dr. Valeria H. Parker Dr. Valeria H. Parker, physician, educator, lecturer, and writer, is well known throughout the United States for the outstanding work she has done in the interest of social hygiene. She is a member of the staff, a consultant, and the director of field extension for the American Social Hygiene Association. " Large of stature, powerful of intellect, and with a rare 695 gift of eloquence, she is a forceful and convincing public speaker and is an ardent crusader for health and morals. She stands squarely for equal moral standards. She organized and presided with poise and dignity over the fourteenth biennal meeting of the Council held in New York in 1927. This outstanding event stamped her as a real executive. | considered it a great privilege to work with her at that time as recording secretary of the Council. Doctor Parker has been a real friend and admirer of the Mormon people. Because of her great interest in young people, she has especially appreciated the work of the M. LA. I have heard her say repeatedly that she regarded the recreation program of our Mutual Improvement Association the best in the whole United States. Miss Lena Madesin Phillips Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, a lawyer by profession, was president of the National Council of Women when it sponsored the International Congress of Women held at the "Century of Progress" Fair in Chicago in the summer of 1933, and which was attended by delegates from thirty-one nations. This Congress was conceded to be the greatest and most brilliant gathering of women ever held in this country. To finance it required the large fund of $100,000 which was raised under the leadership of Miss Phillips; and when the convention was over, there was a balance in black. As a vice-president, I was familiar with all the plans and arrangements for the Congress and my admiration for Miss Phillips and her ability is unbounded. She is a 696 student of current problems, both national and international, and is known for her vision, brilliance, courage, and, above all else, for her common sense. To see her in action as a presiding officer in either a small executive meeting or at a great congress of women is an inspiration. To witness the operation of her keen legal mind, and the dispatch and fairness with which she deals with all questions, and her wise decisions is an education in leadership. Miss Phillips is known both nationally and internationally as a great organizer and leader of woman. She was the founder and organizer of both the National and International Federations of Business and Professional Women. She has served as president of the National Federation for twelve years, and since 1930 has held the position of president of the International Federation. In this latter capacity she has presided over large conventions in America and in several European countries. She is loved and admired today by the business and professional women the world over as their loyal friend, leader, and champion of their nights. Carrie Chapman Catt Carrie Chapman Catt, orator, noted suffrage leader, and peace advocate, on her visit to Salt Lake City in the summer of 1919 paid a visit to Relief Society headquarters. She made a number of addresses during her stay in Salt Lake City, one of which was given in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. I heard President Charles W. Penrose say that hers was one of the best addresses he had ever heard given by either a man or a woman. We were all greatly impressed by Mrs. Catt's marvelous ability as a speaker and by the magnetism of her charming personality. She has a vibrant voice, great learning, culture, and charm, and a subtle sense of humor. She was royally entertained by the suffrage leaders in Utah, headed by Emily S. Richards, and she was cordially received by President Heber J. Grant. I have met and heard her speak a number of - times since, and my admiration for her has increased with the years. Mrs. Catt, the most interesting figure in the Woman's Centennial Congress held in New York City in , was one of its chief promoters. She has been one of the foremost leaders in the interest of world peace and in the fight for the rights of women. Today, at age 82, she heads the Committee on the Cause and Cure of War. She calls upon the women of the country to "war on Prd war. Mrs. Catt has been designated by Ida M. Tarbell as the country's leading stateswoman, and in 1933 she was chosen by the women of America in a nation-wide poll as one of the twelve great women who have made the most valuable contribution to American progress during the past one hundred years. Jane Addams Jane Addams, the great social pioneer, writer, lecturer, peace advocate, founder of the famous social settlement, Hull House, was in her lifetime known the world over as America's most revered woman. One lovely summer morning I went down to the office early to complete an im- IN RETROSPECT portant piece of work, and as I sat at my desk alone I heard someone walk gently down the hall into the outer office. I looked up and there in the doorway, bare-headed, stood the famous and lovely Jane Addams. Not feeling well, she had stopped in Salt Lake City for a day or so on a return trip from California. While her traveling companion made a side trip to Yellowstone Park she was resting in the Hotel Utah. She said that upon learning that she was so near the Relief Society office she had decided to walk over since she had always admired the work of this organization and the splendid service it has given, and she added, "I value highly my acquaintance with my Mormon friends." She remained for over an hour, manifesting keen interest in our work and our plans. I had met Miss Addams on a number of occasions before and had heard her speak at a number of important meetings. My closest contact with her was in the summer of 1902. While studying at the University of Chicago I attended a number of her lectures at Hull House, and upon assignment from my professor, I spent several days at this famous settlement to obtain material for a term paper. She gave me the privilege of several personal interviews. I visited Hull House again in 1911 with Sister Emmeline B. Wells and other delegates to the National Council meeting in Chicago, and we were luncheon guests of Miss Addams in the famous Hull House dining room. But, of course, this visit to our office was the highlight of my acquaintance with Jane Addams, and it was a great honor for the Relief Society to have as a visitor this distinguished woman 697 who had been called the 'best beloved woman in America" and the greatest woman of her time. The name of Jane Addams is always included in any list of great American women, and usually stands first. Dr. Emil Ludwig, the historian and biographic appraiser of reputations, stated in 1928 that the four greatest living Americans in their order were: Thomas A. Edison, Jane Addams, John D. Rockefeller, and Orville Wright. Ida M. Tarbell in 1930 listed Jane Addams among the fifty living women who have done most to advance the welfare of the United States; and in 1933 she was one of the twelve American women chosen by the women of America in a nationwide poll as the great women leaders of the past century. Miss. Addams' dying words were: "Don't think of me in veneration, but carry on my humanitarian work." Karl De Schweinitz Karl De Schweinitz, author of Growing Up, an excellent book for adolescents, and The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, which is well known to Relief Society women all over the Church, is one of the most dynamic and stimulating personalities I have ever met. An outstanding welfare worker and executive, he was for many years general secretary of the Family Society of Philadelphia, and is now professor in charge of the school of social work of the University of Pennsylvania. Following is an excerpt from a letter he wrote me in 1927 regarding the use of his book by Relief Society: I am delighted to have your letter of June 27 with your interesting report. It is a great satisfaction and pleasure to know 698 that you have found The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble of service. This is precisely the use for it that I had in mind when I wrote it. Mary Richmond I first met Mary Richmond, director of the charity organization department of Russell Sage Foundation, and one of America's greatest welfare workers, in Kansas City in , at a meeting of the National Conference of Social Work. During the previous winter in a course of study in home service given by the University of Colorado and the Red Cross in Denver, we used as a text her book Social Diagnosis, considered the best available text on social case work, and we also read and discussed The Good Neighbor, another of her publications. This work is based on the parable of the Good Samaritan, and it portrays what genuine neighborliness consists of. Be-- cause I had become so much interested in her books, I was naturally interested in the author herself and was eager to see her and to hear her speak. I had often wondered what type of woman it would be who could write such a book as Social Diagnosis. Great was my delight when in Kansas City I had the opportunity of meeting Miss Richmond personally at a small luncheon given in her honor by a few welfare workers. I was especially pleased when I was placed almost directly opposite her at the table where I could view her interesting countenance and_ hear every word she spoke. While I realized from her writings that Mary Richmond respected, honored, and valued highly the sacredness of human personality, that she was always sympathetic with human beings and their frailties, and that she was an outstanding scientist in the field of human nature, still I had no idea that one so famous could be so gentle, democratic, and unspoiled. Miss Richmond was plain and simple in her dress, and had a beautiful, motherly face. She was so gentle and friendly and there was so much warmth and charm in her manner that all reserve was broken down at once. If I should compare her with a flower, it would be one of the old-fashioned garden variety, beautiful and modest, yet sturdy and dependable. ) DrelawardT. Renae Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York City, eminent author, educator, and social economist, is one of the most brilliant, interesting, and stimlating friends I have known. For over a half century he has held a high place among educators and welfare workers, and is greatly honored and respected by them for his many and great contributions in the fields of education and human welfare. He is known to many Relief Society women through his books Normal Life, The Family and Social Work, and Principles of Relief. I first met Doctor Devine at the National Conference of Social Work. In Atlantic City in 1919 when, in the Family division meeting, he became interested. In some comments I had made about the Mormon Relief Society. At the close of the session he chatted with me on the great pier for an hour, and thus began a friendship which has lasted through the years. He became greatly interested in the social aspects of Mormonism and later visited Salt Lake City a IN RETROSPECT number of times. He has given lectures at both the B. Y. U. And the U. Of U. Miss Lillian Wald I had the privilege in the summer of 1919 of meeting Miss Lillian Wald of New York City, the founder of Henry Street Settlement, an institution similar in character to Jane Addams' Hull House in Chicago, and the originator of the system of district nursing established today in most of our larger cities, and of the first city school nursing in the world. As a young nurse, Miss Wald was led by a little child into the squalor of an east-side tenement to the bedside of a woman who was giving birth toa baby. The poverty and dirt made such a deep impression upon her that then and there she decided to devote herself to improving the conditions of the poor. Following a convention in Atlantic City, a small group of family welfare workers from the west, upon invitation, visited Henry Street Settlement and a number of social welfare agencies in New York City. Miss Wald received us very kindly, _ invited us to eat luncheon with her, and spent the greater part of the day explaining the work and background of the institution. It was a thrilling experience. Miss Wald, famous for her work, is soft-spoken and sweetvoiced and is the essence of modesty, simplicity, and kindness. She much preferred to talk about her work rather than herself. Grace Abbott Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau of the Department of Labor from 1921 to 1934, was one of 699 America's great women. I have always felt greatly honored in my personal acquaintance and intimate friendship with her. A protege of Jane Addams, she spent much of her life in human welfare work, for which she was richly endowed by nature and well fitted by training. She was a direct and forceful speaker and writer, was president of the National Conference of Social Work in 1924, and American representative on a committee created by the League of Nations for the purpose of devising standards for the protection of women and children. My acquaintance with Miss Abbott began in 1923 when I received a letter from her expressing appreciation for some legislation I had sponsored as a member of the Utah House of Representatives that year. This was followed by a long period of work with her in the interest of maternal and child welfare. The Relief Society, which had already looked ahead and set aside the interest on its wheat fund for maternity and child-welfare work was not only willing but was in an excellent position to cooperate with other agencies in this important work. Miss Abbott's first work in the Children's Bureau was the investigation of infant mortality. The latest census (1912) had shown that three hundred thousand babies under one year had died in the United States during that year. Also that there was an annual loss of 20, coo0 mothers, and there were indications that there had been very little improvement since that time. During the summer of 1926, Miss Abbott telephoned me to see if I could arrange for an appointment for 700 her with Senator Reed Smoot who was at that time in Salt Lake City. She was worried about some problems connected with the Children's Bureau and was anxious to consult the Senator. She said she and her sister, Edith, and Miss Sophonisba Breckenridge were vacationing in Colorado, and that if I could arrange for a meeting with the Senator they would all three come to Salt Lake City and would be pleased to hold a meeting with the welfare workers here. 'The appointment was readily arranged for with the genial Senator, _and the social workers of this city had a rare treat at a dinner meeting with these noted women as speakers. Grace Abbott -has since passed on, but her sister, Edith Abbott, a great teacher and educator, was then and still is dean of the graduate School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, and Miss Breckenridge, trained lawyer, brilliant and talented educator, ls professor of public welfare administration in this same famous school. Following are a few brief excerpts from letters I have received from Grace Abbott which show her friendliness and appreciation: September 4, 1926 Washington, D. C. My dear Mrs. Lyman: This has been a very busy week or I should have written more promptly to thank you for all your courtesies to us while we were in Salt Lake City. I had a most interesting time seeing "America's most beautiful city"... I am especially grateful to you for your help and interest in the Maternity and Infancy work, and for that matter, the whole welfare program of the Bureau. Sincerely yours, (Signed) Grace Abbott ington early in October.. September 17, 1928