Happenings," due to the death of Annie Wells Cannon, author of the page. First appearing in the issue of the Magazine, and continuing monthly since that date, "Happenings" has been one of the Magazine's most popular pages. Introduced by a poetic verse appropriate for the month, composed by Mrs. Cannon, the page has contained items of current interest about noted women. Attention has been called to the latest books by women. Birthday fetes and other occasions honoring Latter-day Saint women, particularly those of advanced age, have been recognized, as have the deaths of outstanding Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Cannon's occasional comments on world conditions or events reported in the column have been particularly apropos. In addition to "Happenings," Mrs. Cannon has contributed choice poetry and many excellent articles to the Magazine. Her knowledge of Relief Society work due to her many years of active service in the Society, her familiarity with Relief Society history, her acquaintance with Relief Society leaders, and her rare literary gift have made her articles interesting and of inestimable value. From until , Mrs. Cannon was associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The . Her literary works, both prose and poetry will be sincerely missed by The readers, Woteds. To THE FIELD ORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, Stake or Mission Stakes Farr West Humboldt Lake View Mt. Jordan South Ogden Missions Northern Calif. Stake or Mission Stakes Bear Lake Benson Box Elder Cottonwood Moroni New York North Weber Oakland Roosevelt South Sanpete St. Joseph Summit Zion Park Missions Argentine Brazilian Hawaiian Mexican New England Northwestern Sts. Formerly Part of North Weber Reno, Nevada, and Mt. Ogden Weber East Jordan Mt. Ogden California Mission Appointed President Nellie W. Neal Sarah C. Martin Fern B. Fowers Minnie Ballard Olive M. Christiansen Mary S. Ellsworth REORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, Released Veda Shepherd Lulu E. Johnson Grace V. Price Lyle M. Berry Elillian Ivory Eva F. Driggs Nellie W. Neal Anna L. Ellsworth Elsie M. 'Taylor Clarice B. Tuttle Milla T. Wee Katherine M. Judd Josephine Sandberg Corraine S. Williams Amelia W. Bowers Armada B. Cox Vera P. Anderson Valeria D. Young Florence G. Smith Appointed President ~ Amy M. Athay Leona McCarrey Josie J. Jeppson Florence H. Bennion Leona Irons Eva Haglund Melva O. Stratford Ruth Savage Hilton Margaret Wiscombe Anna S. Rasmuson Wilda Merrill Mary E. Wright Inez Burgener Kate Barker Ada P. Seegmiller Eldred L. Waldron Mary B. Done Pierce Bertha S. Reeder Edna H. Bennion % Date January 18, 1942 July 26, 1942 March 22, 1942 June 14, 1942 December 7, 1941 January 2, 1942 Date May 17, 1942 July 12, 1942 July 12, 1942 July 13, 1942 August 2, 1942 May 17, 1942 March 29, 1942 May 31, 1942 April 26, 1942 August 16, 1942 June 21, 1942 November 16, 1941 June 6, 1942 August 1, 1942 February 25, 1942 July 1, 1942 August 13, 1942 December 12, 1941. January 14, 1942 NEW RADIO SERIES—"DRAMATIZATIONS FROM THE LIVING BIBLE" 4h General Board highly recommends the new series of radio programs "Dramatizations from the Living Bible" scheduled to begin October 16, 1942. This program will be broadcast from station KSL at Salt Lake City each Friday evening from 7 to 7:30 p. M. Mountain Wartime, an hour when, it is hoped, most members of the family can listen together. This series will continue for fifty-two weeks—one full year. Incorporated in these half-hour dramatizations is some of the world's finest music, majestic choral renditions of anthems centuries old when Christ was born. Recordings | of these programs will be available for the use of stakes and wards, details of which will be published later, Page 708 Rationing Note: The following information with respect to rationing, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, State Consumer Relations Officer, Office of Price Adminstration, will be found of interest to Relief Society women: HE basic idea of rationing is not new to Mormons, and indeed in one form or another was carried on by American pioneers generally. Essentially, rationing means simply that where a limited supply of a given commodity exists, all shall share equally. Thus all people share on a democratic and equitable basis in the sacrifices imposed on the civilians of a country engaged in total war. Most citizens deem it a privilege to make this small contribution, this small sacrifice, to help their country at war, especially when they remember that some of their countrymen are making the supreme sacrifice to protect the security of their homes and the freedom they hold so dear. While the idea of sharing with our neighbors is not new to America, official rationing programs developed and conducted by the Government for the 132 million people in this country are new. Literally thousands of people must be recruited and trained to handle the job. Fortunately for all of us, this is done almost entirely by volunteers. For example, when the registration for the basic sugar ration was undertaken, some 9,000 school __ superintendents throughout the United States with their boards of education contributed their time and money. They recruited many thousands of teachers to assist in the job. The members of the thousands of local war price and rationing boards likewise are volunteers, except for paid secretaries to assist the larger boards. The whole problem of rationing is complicated 'by the fact that several different methods must be used for the rationing of different commodities. This is illustrated by two commodities we are now rationing, sugar and automobiles. Sugar is used almost universally. The problem of determining how much should be allowed to any one person is merely a problem in arithmetic. The anticipated supply is simply divided by the number of individual and industrial consumers, and the quotient is the amount allowed. Automobiles, on the other hand, never were used by everyone. This, coupled with the fact that the shortage of cars is so severe, makes it a problem not of simple division, but rather of classifying all users of automobiles and allotting cars only to those most essential to public health, welfare, and the war effort. The English system of rationing clothing illustrates still a third method. In this instance, a group of related items must be considered at once. For while it is true that all people use clothing, there is no single article that is used by everyone. For example, office workers would have little or no use for overalls. Accordingly, the English ration clothing by issuing a book of coupons. Then each item of clothing is given a ration point value. For example, a pair of man's socks might have a value of two ration points, while a man's suit might have a value of forty _ (Continued on page 741) Page 709 The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Lucile Wallace Wolf Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the needy: She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. ANDICRAF'T to the Pioneer woman meant not only the creating of things beautiful, but also the creating of needed materials and articles for daily living. As she settled in the West and established a permanent home, she produced with her own hands unusual quilts, counterpanes, curtains, hand-hooked and braided rugs, carpets, even painted and embroidered pictures to adorn the plain walls, utilizing the means available to make for her family a home of beauty and culture. These wonderful women wove the materials that clothed their families, often exchanging this for other needed goods made by fellow craftsmen. Many of these women, converts to the Church, did beautiful weaving, which they had learned in the Old World. As the silk industry was developed in the Valley, lovely ribbons, and silk yardage were made. These Pioneer women, resting from the strain of a hard day's work, found comfort in creating a piece of beautiful lace for a baby's dress or for a dainty collar, for a frill to pin at the Page 710 _ (Proverbs chapter 31:10-38) neck, or for trimming for an otherwise plain sheet or pillowcase to be treasured and used in time of illness or for the special guest. Most of us remember our grandmother's or great-grandmother's lovely bits of lace, crocheted, knitted, netted, or hand loomed. Many wonderful samples of Pioneer handwork are left for us today, and we marvel at the skill and artistry involved. One of the loveliest quilts the Mormon Handicraft Shop has had, was made by a woman eightyfour years old, who pieced the beautiful flower-basket design and then added to each basket appliqued garden flowers in original design. Beautiful handwork was the delight of the Mormon Pioneer woman. Appreciation for beautiful handwork is the heritage that has made the Mormon Handicraft Shop possible. N the summer of 1937, at a time of stress when family incomes needed to be augmented, the Relief Society General Board opened this very unusual Shop. The purpose of the Shop was to encourage the making of fine handiwork, to preserve the THE MORMON HANDICRAFT GIFT SHOP skills practiced by our Pioneer women, and to afford opportunity for supplementing family incomes through the sale of the beautiful articles made. ~The Shop was first located on the second floor of the Bureau of Information on Temple Square, but was later moved to its present location at 21 West 'Temple Street—a splendid location for tourist trade. Articles accepted for sale in the Mormon Handicraft Shop must meet the highest standards of workmanship. Material must be good and colors correct. Persons wishing to send their work to the Shop pay a small annual membership fee. Ward and stake Relief Society organizations are encouraged to hold membership in the Shop, which entitles members of the organization to enter work without taking out an individual membership, provided their work meets the requirements of the Shop. Persons participating in the Shop range in age from twelve to eightysix years of age. An eighty-six-yearold woman provides beautiful knitted lace which trims a pillowcase and sheet set. Because the membership of the Church is made up of people from many lands, there is great variety and diversity of talent found in the articles in the Shop. The use of motifs that are characteristic of the State of Utah and of the Church is encouraged: the sego lily, the state flower; the beehive, the state symbol; the state protected seagull; the famous Mormon Tabernacle; the covered wagon, etc. Among the many interesting articles to be found in the Shop are the 711 Mormon Pioneer dolls, which are sent to doll collectors all over the United States. Since over 3000 dolls have been sent to doll collectors. 'These handmade dolls are eight inches tall and are dressed in characteristic pioneer costumes of 1847. 'They are named good old pioneer names: "Aunt Susan" in her little print dress and sunbonnet; "Aunt Sara" with her little shoulder shawl and knitting a stocking; "Aunt Mary" holding a baby with its long white dress and little white bonnet; "Uncle Silas" in characteristic costume; then, "Aunt Susan" and "Uncle Silas" dressed in "Sunday best.": For the Relief Society centennial a special group of dolls was created to represent the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women present at the organization meeting of Relief Society. Another item that is becoming quite famous is the attractive teatowel set that comes from Nampa, Idaho; and the infants' dresses from Heber City are exquisite. Back of the exquisite handwork of the Shop are many fascinating human-interest stories; for example, an invalid with a serious heart ailment makes the little felt articles that sell as fast as she can produce them. Another woman suffering so with arthritis that she must use a wheel chair makes the lovely crochet doilies with beads crocheted into the designs, and with the money received from her work she buys war bonds. Ever so many women in their seventies receive a check each month for the articles they supply. 712 "THROUGH the Mormon Handicraft Shop many family incomes have been increased, and real missionary work is taking place. The hundreds of visitors coming to the Shop take away with them or send to their friends the beautiful articles made by Mormon women. They are 'delighted with the fine workmanship and the reasonable prices—articles ranging from twenty-five cents up. Lovely quilts and other handmade articles are being sent all over the United States. A woman of prominence recently purchased three lovely quilts for her country home in Alabama where she has all earlyAmerican furnishings. A famous singer who recently visited Salt Lake bought three beautiful quilts, and each time a certain famous concert pianist comes to Salt Lake City he visits the Shop and makes a number of purchases. Men in the service of our country visit the Shop daily, finding there appropriate gifts for their loved ones at home. At the present time the Shop is preparing for Christmas, and unusual and beautiful articles are being added to the stock daily. Mormon. Handicraft Shop is fulfilling the purposes for which it was established and merits the interest and support of Relief Society women.