Sheology and Sestimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage Chapter 12 Spiritual Gifts (Tuesday, January 5, 1943) _ Condensation of Chapter 12 of Articles of Faith, by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) Spiritual Gifts Characteristic of the Church It is characteristic of the ways of God that he manifests His power by the bestowal of a variety of enabling graces, which are properly called gifts of the spirit. Whenever the power of Priesthood has operated through an organized Church on the earth, the members have been strengthened in their faith and otherwise blessed by the possession of spiritual gifts. 'The existence of these spiritual powers is one of the essential characteristics of the Church; where they are not, the Priesthood of God does not operate.... And behold I (Mormon) say unto you he (God) changeth not; if so he would cease to be God; and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miracles. And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and depart from the tight way, and know not the God in whom they should trust. (Mormon 9:19-20; see also Moroni 7:35-37) Page 724 Nature of Spiritual Gifts The gifts here spoken of are essentially endowments of power and authority, through which the purposes of God are accomplished. These gifts have been promised of the Lord unto those who believe on His name, and are to follow obedience to the requirements of the Gospel "... And that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do;..." (Doctrine and Covenants 46:8-9) Miracles are commonly regarded as qccurrences in opposition to the laws of nature. Such a conception is erroneous, for the laws of nature are inviolable. All miracles are accomplished through the operation of the laws of nature, which are the laws of God. (See Jesus The Christ, LESSON DEPARTMENT "Miracles," pp. 147, 151) Any enumeration of the Gifts of the Spirit cannot be made complete by man, yet the more common have 'been specified by inspired writers and by the word of revelation. (Doctrine and Covenants 46:13-33) Mentioned among these are: the gift of tongues and interpretation, the gift of healing, visions, dreams, the gift of prophecy, and revelation. For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby.... And all these gifts come from God, for the benefit of the children of God. (Doctrine and Covenants 46;11- 12, 26) The Testimony of Miracles Since scriptures aver that spiritual powers of the baser sort have wrought miracles, to be valid as a testimony 725 of truth, miracles must be wrought in the name of Jesus Christ, and to His honor in furtherance of the plan of salvation. Imitations of Spiritual Gifts Satan has shown himself to be a skilful imitator (see Exodus 7, 8 for the miracles of the magicians of Egypt). 'The development of the healing gift in the Church today is imitated by the varied faith cures and their numerous modifications. Spiritual Gifts in the Church Today The Latter-day Saints claim to possess within the Church all the sign-gifts promised as the heritage of the believer. And ye must give thanks unto God in the Spirit for whatsoever blessing ye are blessed with. And ye must practice virtue and holiness before me continually. Even so. Amen. (Doctrine and Covenants 46:32, 33) LESSON PLAN Article 7—"We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc." Lesson Aims: 1. To heighten one's appreciation of the spiritual gifts bestowed by the Father upon His children. 2. To acquire an intense desire to live in such a way that some of these spiritual gifts will be granted to each. (The above aims should be thoroughly understood by each member of the class as well as by the class leader. The lesson should be studied and taught with a view toward having each member try to aid in their accomplishment, so far as his own appreciation and his own desires are concerned. The teaching aids for this lesson, from the presentation of the aims to the final question, are intended to assist in an accomplishment of these objectives for each individual in the class. The class leader might have the aims written on a blackboard before the class, and either read them herself to the class or have a member read them. Comments from the class may be asked for, in order that the leaders may see if they are thoroughly understood by all.) Introduction (The following introduction should be "lectured'""—not read—to the class in an interesting but informal manner by the class leader. She may supplement it with similar material, or her own comments, if she so desires. ) Such things as visions, miracles, been characteristics of the true and prophecy are and always have church, and they are given to those 726 who are faithful and who seek diligently after spiritual guidance and knowledge. Seldom are they given indiscriminately to those who cannot honestly and effectively abide such a gift. Even though it is promised that in the latter days God's Spirit shall be poured out upon all flesh, yet the direct recipients of His Spirit will be those who are faithful and persistent in the proper use of their intelligence, because it is the laws of faith and industry upon which such blessings are predicated. The admonition that "Faith without works is dead" also is pertinent to this situation. "Today many persons think of the flying of the airplane, the transmission of speech by radio, and especi- "ally the seeing of persons by television as being truly miraculous. Sometimes the word is applied to that which is thought to be natural in every way but yet is understood by the person speaking." However, Dr. James E. Talmage in Jesus the Christ says: "We arbitrarily classify as miracles only such phenomena as are unusual, special, transitory, or wrought by an agency beyond man's control." As members of a church which has adopted as one of its Articles of Faith, a belief in the gifts of vision, prophecy, healing, et cetera, it is especially fitting that each member appreciate such gifts, and so desire to be the possessor of some of them that he will be both faithful enough and diligent enough to warrant their being bestowed upon him. "... The soul who regards the miracle in its true nature as but one element of the system of Christ, possessing value as a positive criterion only as it is associated with the numerous other characteristics of the Church, will not be deceived." 'God will perform miracles for His children and under the hands of His priesthood if the requests are abounding in faith and genuine in purpose.. This may be a source of great help," for "Among believers they are to serve for encouragement and as incentives to higher communion with the Spirit." Questions and Exercises A. Questions The following questions are designed to aid the class leader in accomplishing the aims of the lesson by the discussion method of teaching: 1. Of what significance to our belief in _the unchangeability of God's. Behavior, is Mormon's declaration that miracles will not cease so long as there is left one man upon the earth to be saved? 2. In what way is it wise for believers in God to accept as the chief purpose of miracles, their power of continued enlightenment and comfort, an evidence of Divine favor? 3. Let several class members name a modern invention or discovery that they consider in the nature of a miracle, and give reasons why it is so regarded by them. 4. How might the following quotation from Talmage help one to understand how faith and diligence contribute to performance of miracles? "May we not believe that when Israel encompassed Jericho, the captain of the Lord's host and his heavenly train were there, and that before their supermortal agency, sustained by the faith and obedience of the human army, the walls were leveled."" (Read from the Bible, in the Book of Joshua 5:13-14.) 5. Of the following gifts treated in the textbook, which would you prefer to re- LESSON DEPARTMENT ceive? Give reasons for your choice. (1) Ability to speak in tongues and to interpret such languages (2) Power of healing (3) Faith to be healed (4) Receiving of visions and dreams (5) Spirit of prophecy and revelation (6) Power to perform miracles (7) Opportunity to see miracles performed 6. What may one do, so far as faith and diligence are concerned, in order to murtit this gift? 7. Let each relate (in as interesting a manner as possible) an occurrence in which a spiritual gift was exercised. 8. Discuss: "For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracles among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until after their faith." (Ether 12:12) 9. How might one distinguish between miracles performed through faith and diligence. And those performed otherwise? B. Exercises The exercises may be carried out by the teachers and class members during the month between the theology lessons. This will help them to translate into active practice the appreciations for and the desires to 727 receive spiritual gifts, which have been acquired from this lesson. 'The exercises need not be discussed in class unless the class especially wants to discuss them. In assigning them, the class leader may dictate them to the class toward the end of the period, or she may have them on a blackboard for the class to copy. Perhaps it is possible in some instances to have typed or mimeographed copies ready to give to the class. 1. Read one of the Gospels (Matthew, Mark. Luke, or John) and make a list of all the miracles which were performed by Jesus or His disciples. Tell how faith and industry weie concerned in each. 2. Visit with one or several members of the class, and keep the conversations directed toward incidents concerned with the beliefs as expressed in the seventh Article of Faith. Try to decide in each case discussed how faith and diligence contributed to the bestowal upon the person of the particular gift in question. References Talmage, James E., Jesus the Christ, pp. 147-151. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks, PP. 247-258. A