Work-and-Business New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 3 Eliminate Household Wastes (Tuesday, December 8, 1942) "f ASTE not, want not." This axiom taught and, of necessity, practiced by our grandmothers, can well be revived and used to advantage today. There is no place for waste in wartime America. It is not only patriotic to save, but smart and thrifty as well. One need only to look around and see bulging garbage cans and boxes to realize the vast amount of waste there is. Other visible evidence may be found in closets, attics, basements, garages, farmyards, barns, sheds, etc. Hidden waste lurks in the refrigerator, in the kitchen sink, on the rack behind the door, under the rug, or in the grain bin. Spoilage of food, due to bacteria, yeasts, and molds, and destruction of clothing and fabrics, due to moths and embedded dirt, alone cost the nation's families many hundreds of dollars each year. Added to these are the work of ants, termites, mice, _ rats, rust, acids, water, fire, etc. To clear the deck and discard all the unused things does not mean to waste them. What is outmoded in one household may be used advantageously in another. 'There are agencies in every community that can utilize almost every commodity. However, to save to the point of wasting is not good economy. Unusable articles should be destroyed, otherwise they waste space as well as time and effort in handling. Old papers and rags, especially those used with oils or cleaning materials, may cause spontaneous combustion which in turn may cause great waste by fire. They are best cared for in covered tin containers. Speaking of tin, the small-sized, rustproof cans from which soup, vegetables, etc., have been used, can be reused for jelly, marmalade, or molds for various kinds of food. Care should be taken when the can is opened the first time that no rough edges remain to injure the hands. In some places the Government has asked that all tin cans be saved for reconditioning. Out of control, water, so vitally needed in many places, may go to. Waste or may be the means of causing extensive waste. The dripping of the water in leaky plumbing tends to wear away the seat and other parts of faucets and pipes to the extent that replacement becomes necessary. Overflowing toilets and clogging of wash bowls cause damage and waste to floors, linoleum, wallpaper, etc., all of which could be avoided by minor precaution. Since at the present time labor is at a premium, the housewife, once shown, can easily learn to replace old washers on faucets and mend leaks in hose or pipes. A piece of adhesive tape and a ten cent clamp can be used satisfactorily in an emergency. Drain pipes and traps can be kept clean if at regular intervals they are flushed out with a hose attached to the hot water tap turned on full force. Care should be taken in the use of acids, chemicals, or commercial preparations in cleaning plumbing fixtures; some of them mix readily with the grease and form soap which hardens and causes more trouble. The enamel finish on sinks, wash bowls, stoves, and refrigerators will be much marred if such things as lemon or grapefruit juice, Sani-Flush, fingernail polish, or paint remover are spilled on them. Kerosene may remove dirt and waste without harm to plumbing fixtures, clothing, and other household articles. Oil stoves or kerosene lamps should never be refilled while lighted as serious waste of life and property have resulted from such careless action. A GOVERNMENT report shows that as high as 28 percent of the food bought by American families is wasted. This large amount, lost - through ignorance or carelessness, could well feed many families. In order to prevent food spoilage, it is important to have the proper kind of storage or protection. Most foods can be protected by these three general kinds of storage—dry, moistcool, and refrigerated. 'To economically and skillfully handle, prepare, and use foods is a challenge to any housewife. 'Too large, unpalatable, 'unattractive servings contribute to a high percent of waste. 'Two smaller servings are more appetizing as well as more economical. It is best not to plan to have too many leftovers, especially vegetables. But there are many ways of utilizing leftovers where necessary. Small portions of vegetables or meats may be made into good salad or creamed dishes. Molded, cooked cereals, fried and served with syrup or fruit sauce make a nourishing and tasty breakfast or luncheon dish. Sour milk or cream makes delicious waffles, gingerbread, salad dressing, or spice cake. Dried crusts and slices of bread or stale rolls can be steamed or sprinkled with water and heated in the oven, or they may be ground and used in various kinds of puddings, escaloped or casserole dishes. Stale cake may be crumbed or steamed and served with fruit or vanilla sauce. Grated or chopped bits of hard cheese can be used in sandwich fillings, cream sauce, salads, or escaloped dishes. According to some experts, American housewives have offended greatly in the waste of cooking fat. The Government has now asked them to save it for use in making glycerine from which explosives and other war materials are made. Glycerine is used in making many other household things, such as lotions, soap, cosmetics, antiseptics, and food flavoring. Fats and oils can be clarified, so they may be used for cooking, in various ways. Water or raw potatoes added to the cold fat and heated slowly to a moderate temperature for fifteen to twenty minutes, then strained through fine cloth will remove objectionable odors, flavors, or: color. Too high temperature (the smoking point) decomposes some fats, especially butter and margarine, and causes them to become rancid more quickly. If all kinds of fats are used for cooking, each kind should be kept in individual containers and used according to the 730 LESSON DEPARTMENT flavor desired. If fat is salvaged for Government use, all kinds may be put together. The ones of higher melting point mixed with those of lower melting point make the whole more compact and easier to handle. Soap, another vital article, should be conserved. Small bits can be made into a jelly by dissolving in boiling water, or they may be put into a soap shaker and used for dish washing or hand laundering. "I will waste nothing." 'This part of the Consumer's Pledge, if seriously followed by every household, would save many hundreds of dollars, much 731 time and energy, and make happier people. Questions for Discussion 1. Have class members come prepared to discuss methods they have used to save and conserve in the home. 2. Name all the ways you can in which food may be wasted. 3. What agencies in your community assist in the salvage of commodities no longer of use in the home? 4. How could members of the Relief Society work together to salvage materials for which they have no further personal use? See "Salvage For Victory Program," , , p. 553. Te [Oram The Bible As Literature Lesson 4 Types of Literature in the Bible—Prose (Tuesday, January 19, 1943) Objective: To recognize some of the difficulties accompanying the literary study of the Bible and to consider literary types in the Bible. Lesson Topics 1. Difficulties 2. Types 3. Bible prose Difficulties to be Met It is very important for class leaders and members to keep constantly in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature. This can obviate one natural difficulty— that of recurring questions regarding theological matters which would be considered in a religious study. Studying the Bible as literature will naturally make its spiritual values more easily understood and appreciated, but that is not the chief concern in these lessons. As literature alone, the Bible has no peer. Doctor Moulton says, "The intrinsic worth of the Old Testament is second to none of the world's great literatures. Moreover it has, in common with the literature of Greece and Rome, been the main factor in the development of our modern prose and poetty. For the English speaking people no liberal education will be complete nn; | in which classical and Biblical literatures do not stand side by side." Lyman Abbott discusses two chief difficulties confronting the student accustomed to considering the Bible from the theological point of view. The first is that it seems to the student irreverent and inconsistent with any theory of inspiration to think of the Bible as mere literature. He, of necessity, must change his attitude of mind. His next difficulty is the problem of knowing "what is wholly true, what only partially true, what is the Word of God, and what the human husk which contains it." Mr. Abbott explains that the first difficulty is a product of intellectual habits which have come down to us from the Puritans who were very prosaic and looked with suspicion upon poetry and fiction, for they confounded fact with truth and thought nothing could be true which was not 'fact. The Puritans condemned all novels, tales, and dramas as dangerous, if not vicious, and could not imagine that the Bible contained any such elements of peril. The Bible, if we regard what it says about itself, abolishes the other difficulty. The Great Book tells us that it is a hidden treasure and that the reader must search for the treasure and separate the gold from the alloy. Mr. Abbott says, "A revelation of truth which exempted us from toil and research and released us from intellectual and moral responsibility would be no revelation at all." | | | Doctor Moulton explains difficulties of another kind which have beset the literary student. He says literature implies something more than correct form and charm of diction. It is made up of a great variety of forms, such as lyrics, dramas, essays, and stories. The discrimination of such forms is essential, not only for the full force, but even for the interpretation of a literary work. If a person should read a drama under the impression that he was reading an essay, he would fail to get the significance of what he was reading. This is exactly the kind of thing that happened in connection with the Bible. We are aware that the scriptures _ date back to a time in which the art of manuscript writing was not highly developed. At that time "manuscripts scarcely divided words and sentences, much less indicated distinctions between prose and verse, between one meter and another, between speeches in dialogue or even the simplest divisions in straightforward prose." The Biblical materials were, in short, preserved in manuscripts in which all literary forms looked alike. "Tt appears," Doctor Moulton continues, "that the form of our modern Bibles has been given to them, not by the sacred writers themselves, but by those who had charge of the scriptures at the time when manuscripts began to indicate differences of form. These writers happened to be men who cared nothing about literary form, but who regarded the Bible as material for commentary. The form such commentaries would give to the Scriptures would naturally be that of texts for comment. So it was in the form of numbered texts or verses that the Bible came down to our translators. Even the most elementary distinction of form, that between prose and verse, was LESSON DEPARTMENT not discovered in relation to the Hebrew Scriptures until more than a century after the King James' Version had been completed." It is a fact that most of the Bibles used today are still in this medieval form. Even though they may be translated correctly, they. Still "remain a double misrepresentation of the sacred original, since they ignore, on the one hand, the literary varieties in form and, on the other hand, they preserve in their chapters and verses a structure which is alien to the Bible itself and is the creation of medieval commentators." To note the difference between these early formless manuscripts and the rearrangement of the material by the commentators, then between these and Doctor Moulton's Modern Readers' Bible or Mr. Bates' later literary version is impressive. (Doctor Moulton illustrates some of these differences in the preface to his Bible and in chapter I of his World Literature.) It was this "'accident of tradition" which has made the Bible unnecessarily obscure and robbed it of the power to give the pleasure it should give as great literature. In the form found in the ordinary Bible the unit is the sentence, whereas in literature the unit is a drama, a short story, an essay, or a lyric. 'Doctor Moulton points out two things that are necessary to the realization of the Bible as literature in the truest sense. First, it must. Be printed in its complete literary structure. Dialogue must appear as dialogue, with distinctions of speeches and names of speakers; that is, the different types must be distinguished. The student must analyze the work 733 as he would any other work of literary art, regarding it as a whole while examining the mutual relations of its parts. Second, there must be a feeling always "'after that unity which is the soul of a work of art." Only when all this is done can the Bible take its proper place among the literatures of the world. Types of Literature in the Bible The Bible contains, as mentioned before, practically all the types of literature. For instance, the prose of the Bible includes history, short stories, idyls, prophetic discourse, philosophy, essays, orations, letters, etc. The poetry includes lyrics, dramas, and narrative poems, some of which approach the epic. 'The Bible, as described in an earlier lesson, is an historic framework—a connective tissue holding together the higher literary forms just mentioned. It is in these higher forms that we get the life and spirit of the whole. History tells us what men have done. Literature goes a step farther and tells us how they have felt about it. Literature gives an autobiography of the inner life of men—of his ambitions, ideals, struggles, frustrations, and attainments. The Bible has been called the autobiography of a chosen people. An autobiography reveals both objective and subjective phases of the writer's life. The Old Testament is the history of the people of Israel presented by itself. 'The New Testament is the history of the Primitive Church presented by itself. It is as though the children of Israel rather late in their history finally fully realized their sacred mission and 734 set themselves to think out the successive stages in their development, inserting in the account of each of these epochs, the stories, songs, dramas, and so on, which had originated in each stage. The New Testament developed in much the same way. Probably when the followers of Christ found oral narrations of the great events in the Master's life beginning to weaken, they undertook to construct a narrative from testimonies of eyewitnesses and others to give a permanent and unified record of the whole ministry. This would include successive sayings, letters, sermons, and so on. (The literary work of the daughters of Mormon pioneers employs a very similar method.) The Prose of the Bible Saintsbury, the critic, speaking of a group of literary masters says: "Great as they are, they cannot approach, as writers of prose, the company of scholarly divines who produced what is probably the greatest prose work in any language—the Authorized: Version of the Bible in English." Much of the best prose in the English language has been written by authors saturated not only with the spirit but with the language of the Bible. John Ruskin, perhaps the greatest master in the Victorian period of pure, idiomatic, vigorous and eloquent English prose, ascribes his excellence to the fact that his mother required him in childhood to commit to memory and to repeat to her over and over again many passages of the Bible. Later lessons will consider some of the prose masterpieces of the Bible. At this point but a few excerpts can be given to illustrate its excellence. — The well-known reply of Ruth to Naomi comes to mind at once as an illustration of tenderness and devotion expressed in faultless prose closely bordering poetry: And Ruth said, "Entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, 1 will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my god: Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me." The Book of Ruth is excellent prose not solely because of its diction and phrasing, but also because of its plot, character delineation, and other characteristics which it shares with good stories. The sayings of Jesus are excellent examples of choice prose. They are made vivid and impressive by means of exact diction and _ figurative speech, as in the following: The foxes have holes and the birds of the heaven have nests, but the son of man hath not where to lay his head. The Bible is a priceless storehouse of such excellent writing. Lesson Helps 1. Bring to class The Modern Readers' Bible or World Literature by Richard Green Moulton and allow the members to see the illustrations of the early Bible texts and to compare them with the form in the Modern Readers' Bible or The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature, by Bates. 2. Find. Illustrations in the Bible to show that the literary form makes the meaning and spiritual significance more clear than the regular form does. (Compare, for instance, "Song of Songs' in the Moulton or Bates book with the King LESSON DEPARTMENT James Version.) 3. Illustrate some of the prose types in the Bible by reading a short narrative, a brief essay, a letter, etc., first defining each type and pointing out its characteristics. 4. Memorize favorite passages. References Bates, Ernest S., The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature. McAffee, The Greatest English Classic. Fifield, S. Wendell, How to Use the Bible. Moulton, The Modern Readers' Bible. Moulton, World Literature. Thomas, John M., and Espenshad, A., Bible Readings. Beveridge, Albert J., The Bible as Good Reading. Knox, Raymond C., Knowing the Bible. Giddard, Grace H., and Baldwin, D. M., Types of Literature in the Old Testament. Os "Seand Sasamec What "America" Means Lesson 3 The Declaration of Independence (Tuesday, January 26, 1943) The foundation of our empire was one not laid in the gloomy age of ignorance and superstition; but at an epoch when the rights of mankind were better understood and more clearly defined than at any former period—George Washington. The Americans are the first people whom Heaven has favored with an opportunity of deliberating upon, and choosing the forms of government under which they should live.—John Jay, tirst Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. IKE all great documents of religious and political history, the Declaration of Independence was an expression of the ideals of liberty which the American people had come to believe as a result of their lives in this new land. It embodied in sentence and phrase principles of government which were a contribution to the world's political and civic life, for it was a select people who came from England to America in the seventeenth century. The Puritans and Quakers and Church of England members were among the best class of the English people. Coming from a district known as East Anglia, which was one of the intellectual centers of England, they were a strong-minded, thoughtful, self-controlled, and self-sacrificing people, and these deep religious and moral qualities gave a wholesome sanction to all kinds of honest labor and institutions. Women came to be freer; they had a higher degree of education than the women of the Old World. Class distinctions were abolished. Birth and money meant little in going into the wilderness to redeem the soil. It was the character of the people that counted. The forefathers of Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, John and Samuel Adams, James Madison, Benjamin Franklin, and the many other great 736 characters at that time developed unusual courage and determination, strong convictions, and strong initiative. When the day of the struggle for existence was over, they began to assert themselves in new ways of life and to mold a new system of education and civic endeavor that would eventually become the warp and woof of a _ new government. The Declaration of Independence was passed by the second Continental Congress on July 4, 1776. The Revolutionary War had already begun, and General George Washington had the year before taken command of the newly organized American Army. A statement in the immortal document is one of the most significant thoughts of our political history. It reads: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal and are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights among which are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness; that to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." We have in this sentence the fundamental idea of government which has come to be one of America's distinct contributions _ to the world. Out of it grew the very spirit and meaning of the Constitution of the United States, for it embodies the right of the people to govern themselves, both collectively and individually. When Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence he realized that true democracy was conducive to individual opportunity, which gave every person freedom to develop the full measure of his be- 'ing. Our government was instituted to preserve and protect that equality. It did not mean that it would give privileges to some and deny them to others, but all—both men and women—were to be free to work out their destinies as God would have them do. George Eliot once said: "Not God himself can make man's best without best men to help Him." So with government. Men must be trained to live their best, and this' is another phase of the functions of democracy. Such thoughts were in the minds of those men who gave their lives and honor for the immortal Declaration. 'They believed then as men believe today, the significant words of Chief Justice Russell of England: Civilization is not dominion, wealth, material luxury; nay not even a great literature and wide-spread education, good though these things be. Its true signs are thought for the poor and suffering, chivaltous regard and respect for women, the frank recognition for human brotherhood, irrespective of color or nation or religion, the love of ordered freedom, abhorrence of what is mean and cruel, and ceaseless devotion to the claims of justice. The Declaration of Independence should be read, for it gives better than anything else the ideals of the. Fathers of our Government. The truths written into the document are the thoughts that had been developed during our colonial history, and were fundamental to the political. Opinions of the colonies. It declared that the Thirteen States were free and independent states, and for this principle of freedom, the colonists fought. One hundred and fifty years ago, The Abbe Genty, a distinguished French schol- LESSON DEPARTMENT ar, published an essay on the "Results of the Discovery of America by Europe." At the end of his paper, he says: "The Independence of the Anglo-Americans, as expressed in their immortal Declaration of 1776, is the event most likely to accelerate the revolution which is to renew the happiness of the world. In the bosom of this new Nation are the treasures which are to renew the world." He named the relief to crowded Europe as one of the blessings which are to come to mankind. The emancipation of slaves, the end of conquest, universal peace, the conversion of the world to Christianity are others, for America acclaims all the inhabitants of the world as children of God. The closing paragraph again shows the faith of the delegates in the high civic rights common to the people. We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in General Congress Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by authority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor. The Declaration of Independence was not a form of government, but a statement of grievances against the mother country, because of unjust 737 laws passed by Parliament regulating trade, commerce, and taxes in colonial America. After the signing of the Declaration by the members of the Continental Congress, a constitution was proposed for a central government, but it was not until 1781 that Congress adopted what was known as the Articles of Confederation, which failed to bring about a unity of the colonies. "The founders of the Republic," says Beck, "could only learn from their errors, but it is their great merit that they had the ability to profit in the stern school of experience, of which Benjamin Franklin said, 'is a dear school, but fools will learn in no other." Historians hold that two great circumstances saved the infant nation. One was the invaluable aid of France through such men as Lafayette, and the money that was furnished by France, and the other was the personality of George Washington. In the French Alliance, Washington saw the power of Providence. In his order at Valley Forge, celebrating the Alliance, he said: "It having pleased the Almighty Ruler of the Universe to defend the Cause of the United States, and finally to raise us up a powerful friend among the princes of the earth, to establish our liberty and independence upon a lasting foundation, it becomes us to set apart a day for gratefully acknowledging the divine goodness, and celebrating the important event, which we owe to His divine interposition." The Declaration of Independence embodies the political philosophy of America and is fundamentally the belief in the brotherhood of man. It behooves us, therefore, to heed the 738 advice of Abraham Lincoln, when he said: "I charge you to drop every paltry and insignificant thought for any man's success. It is nothing.... But do not destroy that immortal emblem of humanity—The Declaration of American Independence." In a letter written by Thomas Jefferson to _ James Madison, August 30, 1823, he says: "I pray God that its principles will be eternal." Questions and Subjects for Discussion 1. Give all the reasons you can why the American colonists wanted to be free from England. (Naturally, the new country in time gave the people new ideas and new tasks. ) 2. Have some one read aloud the first part of the Declaration and also the last paragraph. What is impressive in them? 3. Why did the colonists hesitate in sanctioning the Declaration? 4. Read something about the personale of the Congress which drew up and passed the Declaration. Particularly read up on the life of Thomas Jefferson. 5. The original draft of the Declaration is in the National Library in Washington, D. C. For a few cents, the librarian will send you a facsimile copy, oF will tell you how to obtain one. References Becker, Carl, The Revolution Fiske, John, The American Revolution Van Tyne, C. H., The American Revolution Van Tyne, C. H., The Cause of the War of Independence Channing, Edward, History of the United States Muzzey, David S., Thomas Jefferson Greene, E. B., Foundations of American Nationality (Any one-volume history of the United States will be helpful to you.) Eve of the % General Presidents of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. ) Lesson 3 Zina D. Huntington Young Third Relief Society President (Tuesday, January 26, 1943) O Mormon woman has been more beloved than Zina D. Huntington Young, familiarly known throughout the Church as "Aunt Zina," a gentle, soft-spoken person, gifted with great faith and spiritual power. She was born of distinguished ancestry, January 21, 1821, in Watertown, New York. At fourteen she was baptized into the Church, and the same year received the gift of tongues. -In Kirtland the gift of interpretation of tongues came to her. She never studied a foreign language, yet she rendered hymns and prayers given in tongues in the most musical and beautiful of poetic English. She also spoke with ease and eloquence, LESSON DEPARTMENT and was noted for the beautiful and moving prayers she uttered. In the ' sickroom, where she exercised her faith as well as her unusual ability to nurse, her presence was a benediction, After joining the Church, the Huntington family moved to Kirtland, Ohio, thence to Far West, Missouri, from there to Quincy, Illinois, and then in 1839 to Nauvoo, Illinois. In each place they suffered the usual persecutions of the Saints. In Nauvoo, father, mother, Zina, and her brother Oliver, were all prostrate with chills and fever. There was only twelve-year-old John to take care of them. Hundreds of others were lying ill in tents and wagons. Emma Smith and the Prophet Joseph himself came to render assistance to the Huntingtons, and later sent their foster daughter to help them. Zina's mother died, and only two of the family were able to attend the burial. Of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, Zina wrote: "My pen _ cannot utter my grief.... But after a while a change came, as though the released spirits of the departed (the Prophet and the Patriarch) sought to comfort us in that hour of dreadful bereavement." In her journal she described another important historical event: "When the Twelve teturned, the mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham. When I approached the stand, President Young was speaking. It was the voice of Joseph Smith, not that of Brigham Young. His very person was changed.... All witnessed the transfiguration...." In Nauvoo, Zina became a member of the Relief Society. With her tenderness and gentle touch, she 739 soothed the sick. With her gift of understanding and ability to enter into the feelings of others with sympathy and delicacy, she comforted the distressed. Even before the organization of Relief Society, Zina was familiar with the ways of charity, for she had often driven around Kirtland with her mother, who, self-appointed, looked up the needy and suffering and asked the more prosperous for what the poor, required, then distributed what she received. While quite young, Zina Huntington married Henry Jacobs and bore him two sons, Zebulon and Chariton. In February 1846, she left Nauvoo and went to Mount Pisgah where so many people were dying that it was almost impossible to bury them. For lack of coffins, many were laid away in their burial clothes, with only split logs at the bottom of the graves and brush at the sides. Own father died here, and she was left alone with her small sons. Mr. Jacobs had gone East rather than West, and did not plan to return. Zina went on to Winter Quarters. Brigham Young and his company left for the West. The women remaining behind felt deep anxiety because of wolves and Indians and other threats, and they held frequent prayer meetings and exerted all their faith for the pioneer band. Here Zina, with her rare spiritual gifts and her ability to inspire or revive faith in the hearts of others, was a great help. "Aunt Zina" married Brigham Young, and in Utah lived first in the primitive "log row" on his estate, then, later, in the Lion House. She bore him one child, Zina, but she took into her pleasant apartment her husband's four children by Mrs. Zina's - 740 Clarissa Chase Young and reared them as her own with tender affection. She kept the home atmosphere pleasant and serene. Like other pioneer women, "Aunt Zina" made her own candles, soap, molasses; dried her fruits; spun, knitted, dyed and wove cloth, and made clothing. She was an early riser and a quiet, efficient worker who --accomplished much. She took the course in nursing and midwifery taught by Dr. Willard Richards in the very early days of Deseret, and went often to the sick, taking not only her practical knowledge, but likewise her gifts of faith and healing. She seemed to understand the natures and dispositions of her patients, as well as their symptoms, so thoroughly that it is said doctors frequently consulted her regarding those who were ill. Because of her wisdom and sympathy and kindly spirit, she was often referred to as "Zina the Comforter." Sister Young was also an. Able teacher. She taught pioneer children in school, and for more than forty years was a teacher in Sunday School, and after its organization she worked in Primary. She was a friend to the poor in all ways; no one could give alms more graciously, "Charity never faileth,"" was her watch-word, and this meant charity of the spirit as well as of the purse. ROM the first, "Aunt Zina" assisted Sister Eliza R. Snow in Relief Society work in Utah, and became her first counselor when Sister Snow was made president. 'Together they traveled by stagecoach, buckboard, or carriage, over frozen wastes or desert sands, to organize new branches of Relief Society or Prima ty. In Southern Utah they traveled over a thousand miles by carriage and wagon, going to remote hamlets and villages through disagreeable country where, as sister Snow said, "the curse had not begun to be taken off." Sometimes they had to camp overnight in lonely and dangerous places. Once Sister Snow herself drove twenty-six miles over a fearful toad. Sometimes they held three meetings a day. However fatigued they might be, these two inspired women carried with them a faith and an uplifting influence. That transcended all bodily ills. The Saints, struggling against discouragements and bitter hardships in those faraway places, never forget their visits. In those meetings "Aunt Zina" frequently testified of the wonderful appearance and influence of the Prophet Joseph when he had spoken to the Relief Society members in Nauvoo of the destiny and power of women. In 1888, Sister Zina Young became general president of the Relief Society, and rapid advancement continued for the Society. In her life-: time she saw the organization grow from one branch to six hundred. In 1891, the Society affiliated with the National Council of Women, and in 1892 the Relief Society became an incorporated organization. Sister Eliza Snow once wrote in the Woman's Exponent that nothing was so important for Relief Society women as the building up of the kingdom of God. But practical es of pioneer life were a necespart of the building up of the tin iorns The people had to make themselves self-sustaining, and home industries were largely the means to that end. It was amazing what those LESSON DEPARTMENT already busy pioneer women did to start and encourage and make prosperous those same home industries. Regarding grain saving, in which activity "Aunt Zina" was an ardent worker, President John 'Taylor said, "If you women can... Succeed in saving wheat for an emergency, it will be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship that can occur." Like-. Wise the women showed wonderful organizing, executive, and business. Ability in their various other undertakings, such as straw manufacture, 'knitting of woolen goods, and many other enterprises. President Young was especially interested in the silk industry in Utah, for which great hopes were held, and in 1876 he set apart his wife Zina to supervise this work. She had charge of President Young's own large cocoonery and mulberry orchard, from which thousands of trees were transplanted throughout the state. As usual the Exponent was the means of communication. Sister Young asked everybody who had had experience in raising silkworms, to write the results of their experiments to the Woman's Exponent, so that all might reap the results of their experience. She also wrote instruci 741 tions and gave information and encouragement through the magazine. Zina Young attended National Suffrage Conventions in Omaha and Chicago, and in 1892 the World's Congress of Women, where she presided over a meeting conducted by the Relief Society, which was attended by many leading women of the Council. In the World Congress of Women Ministers, convened at the same time, she was invited to sit on the platform, and had the opportunity of explaining the Gospel to many influential and intelligent women. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, "Aunt Zina" was appointed to preside over the women. She died on August 28, 1901. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 115 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim , , P- 347; , pp. 130-136 Pictures Handbook of Relief Society, p. Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim , , p. 344; , p. RATIO NING (Concluded from page 709) points. Thus the consumer must decide which article of clothing he needs most. So we see that rationing is not a simple thing, but that it is the only way we have to get an equitable distribution of scarce goods. By proper compliance with the rationing program, every citizen can demonstrate his patriotism in times of total war. A pamphlet, "