LESSON DEPARTMENT 469
Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And the voice of - Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels from Michael or Adam, down to the present time, all declaring their dispensationg their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their Priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little—giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope." Doc. & Cov., Sec. 110: 11, 12, 13, 14: "After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us, and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us © the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north, "And after this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us, and our seed, all generaitons after us should be blessed. "And after this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the prophet who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said— "Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come. "To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse." September of the present year marks the one hundredth anniversary of the appearance of the angel Moroni. It is suggested that the prophet Joseph's testimony concerning this event be read, Pearl of Great Price, pages 88 to 96, and that the hymns, "What was witnessed in the heavens?" as the opening hymn, and "An angel from on high," as the closing hymn be sung. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Give a list of the special messengers of this dispensation. 2. What does the sending of so many special messengers in this dispensation indicate? 3, What is your personal testimony of the mission of the Angel. Moroni? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in November.) 
 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November. ) A convenient and not unusual way to make a study of Longfellow's poems is to classify them as_ didactic, poems of the affection, and poems more imaginative. He also gives us a group of nature poems as well as his famed narratives and. Translations. Among his' didactic poems the "Psalm of Life' is at the head. Among the poems of the affection, '"The Village Blacksmith" and "The Old Clock on the Stairs" are representative. A good illustration of his imaginative poems are "The Midnight Mass for the Dying Year," and "The Skeleton in Armour." Among his nature — poems, "The Wreck of the Hesperus," "The Rainy Day," and "The Day in Done," are significant. Longfellow's gift of sympathy, both in his writing and his dealings with his fellow men was one of his very striking characteristics. The essence of his poems of imagination and affection, as well as much that is best in his nature poems, is born very largely of this gift of sympathy. No survey of Longfellow's writings would be complete that did not place emphasis upon his narratives. After six centuries of artistic writing contributed by the English, we learn to know how very rare a good narrative poet really is. Among the English poets the names of Chaucer, Scott and Tennyson stand out preeminently as writers of narrative poems. Longfellow has no superior and scarcely an equal among our American writers, as 2 writer of narrative poetry.. "Evangeline," "The Courtship of Miles Standish," "The Tales of a Wayside Inn," are among the most pleasing stories in verse to be found in the literature of our mother tongue. "Evangeline," a story of the love of a young couple settled in Acadia, in the village of Grand Pre, develops in- LESSON DEPARTMENT 471 to an intense tragedy. The nature setting is beautiful and carries with it the charm of the primeval woodland. It is related that Longfellow and Hawthorne were at a dinner where the story of the expulsion of the Acadians, including the expulsion of Gabriel and Evangeline, was related. The guests immediately recognized the value of the story as literary material, and felt that Hawthorne should make use of it. Time passed and the novelist made no use of it. Finally, Longfellow asked permission to use it, and when "Evangeline" was written Hawthorne congratulated him very heartily on his achievement. Longfellow's reply to his friend's very warm note was to the effect, "that he had written a poem that many people would call prose, but had Hawthorne made use of the material he would have written a prose tale that many people would have called poetry." Some commentators on Longfellow have said that he put into the characters of this poem much of the sweetness of his own nature. "Hiawatha," also a narrative of merit, is unique in its rhythn and carries with it the atmosphere of Indian life that has been exalted into the realm of poetry. Enamored as he was with the literature of Europe, Longfellow made use of the verse forms he came in contact with there, as well as the material he amassed. His poetry has proved to be more vital than his prose, and yet it is only fair in passing to say something of "Outre-Mer" and "Hyperion." "Outre-Mer" resembles in style the "Sketch Book" of Irving, although it is more boyish in its sentiment. It records the poet's reminiscences in France, Spain and Italy. "Hyperion" has been very properly called a prose romance. In our last lesson we were made acquainted with the fact that Longfellow lost the wife of his youth in Europe. She died in Rotterdam. A line of his tells us that he "bowed his head and would fain have been bound up in the same sheaf with the sweet blue flower." In his grief and yearning he turned to German romanticism, and as a result gave us ""Hyperion" which is, among other things, an account in prose of his years of pone wandering after the death of his young wife. Longfellow's intensely human traits made ee appeal to ali who came in contact with him. Many people called at his home and he entertained them with very great patience. Among his last callers were three or four boys of the public schools of Cambridge, who were received by him on that occasion in the very pleasantest fashion. Longfellow was very popular among the Harvard 'students. At one time when the students were in a ferment of agitation he was asked to see what he could do to bring about a state of tranquility. He stepped out on a balcony to address the students who were seething below and when they saw him some one in the un- 
 ruly group exclaimed, "Let's listen to Longfellow—he has always been our friend." Longfellow's emotional life maintained an even tenor for the most part, but he knew sorrow and there are some flashes of humor from him. A friend approaching him after the death of his second wife suggested that he hoped he would be able to bear his cross, to which remark he replied, "But what if one is stretched out on that cross." No one can fail to see the quiet humor lurking in the "Courtship of Miles Standish." An example of his ready repartee is found in a story that tells us that at one time Mr. Longfellow was introduced to a man by the name of Longworth. He smilingly retorted— "Worth makes the man, the lack of it the fellow." In the latter part of his life, as the end approached, he got a good deal of consolation from his translations. When he was a student the ease of his translation had been noted. After Bryant had lost his wife he turned to the translations of the Greek poet Homer; after Longfellow's second deep sorrow he rendered into English verse Dante's immortal epic "The Divine Comedy." On the 50th anniversary of the Class of 1825, which class was Longfellow's graduation class, he read a poem, written for the occasion, called "Morituri Salutamus," a few stanzas of which we include. "O Caesar, we who are about to die Salute you!" was the gladiators' cry In the arena, standing face to face With death and with the Roman populace. - O ye familiar scenes—ye groves of pine That once were mine and are no longer mine,— Thou river, widening through the meadows green To the vast sea, so near and yet unseen,— Ye halls, in whose seclusion and repose Phantoms of fame, like exhalations, rose And vanished—we who are about to die, Salute you; earth and air and sea and sky, And the Imperial Sun that scatters down His sovereign splendors upon grove and town. Ye do not answer us! Ye do not hear! We are forgotten; and in your austere And calm indifference, ye little care Whether we come or go: or whence or where, What passing generations fill these halls, What passing voices echo from these walls, Ye heed not; we are only as the blast, A moment heard, and then forever past. This poem will undoubtedly find an echo in the hearts of many students whose college days are far behind them. It has been called his twilight song, yet for another seven years he was permitted to make the air melodious with his singing.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 473
When Tennyson died his admirers could find no more fitting tribute to him than his own lines to the Duke of Wellington. It is hard to find a tribute to Longfellow more apt than his own tribute to the poet found in the "Arrow and the Song" which we include: I shot an arrow into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For, so swiftly it flew, the sight - Could not follow it in its flight. I breathed a song into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For who has sight so keen and strong, That it can follow the flight of song? Long, long afterward, in an oak I found the arrow, still unbroke; And the song from beginning to end, I found again in the heart of a friend. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Read "The Village Blacksmith" and tell why it has made such large appeal to its readers. Is the emotional element of that poem such as would appeal to a select group or to a large number of persons? 2. {Select the words in the poem "The Rainy Day" that suggest a rainy day. Are they true to a rainy day as you think of such a day? How has Longfellow referred this rainy day to life? What do you think of the comfort he offers to those sad of heart, in the last stanza? 3. Turn to the poem "Morituri Salutamus" and select the passage dedicated to his old professors. Do you think he himself ° was an appreciative student, meriting the appreciation he had from his own students in later life? 4, Which of Longfellow's poems is your favorite? 5. Have somebody read a few lines from "Hiawatha" and a few lines from "'Evangeline" and note the difference in the movement of the verse of these respective poems. How old was Longfellow when he died? In what year did his death occur? 7. Read to the class if your time will permit either King Robert of Sicily or The Birds of Killingworth. LESSON IV.. Social Service (Fourth Week in November ) THE HOME AND ITS MATERIAL OBLIGATION Upon the financial condition of the family depend its com- 
 forts, social opportunities, education and general welfare. As its income increases better houses can be built with finer and more comfortable furniture, more books can be bought, opportunities for higher and more thorough education for the children present themselves. In one sense the material condition of the family is the foundation upon which all the higher interests and values of the family depend. This does not imply that wealth is in itself a guarantee of family welfare. Financial conditions are essential but not the sole condition. Some of the other conditions we have already discussed. The task of providing the family with the necessaries of life is a sacred obligation. The revelation of the Lord adds significance to this responsibility. "And again, verily I say unto you, that every man who is obligated to provide for his own family, let him provide and he shall in nowise lose his crown; and let him labor in the church. "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shail not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." Doctrine and Covenants, 75:28-29. The Husband's Part It is man's duty to provide the family with the necessities of life. He that will not provide for his family, says the Lord, is worse than an infidel. These are strong words but their significance cannot be doubted. When a man marries and undertakes to rear a family he has undertaken a serious responsibility and is expected to meet the obligations to the best of his ability. In his struggle to do this it should be understood by himself, as well as by his wife, that whatever his work may be, if it is necessary to human welfare and the community requires it, it is honorable. And in doing such work to the best of his ability he is serving, not only his family but the community as well as keeping a commandment of God. In the gospel of Jesus Christ we have always, been taught to regard work as honorable and the worker as worthy of his hire. The Joy of Work It is unfortunate that so many men feel that the work which they are doing is not worth while. Such an attitude deprives them of the real joy of labor. In requiring that man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, God surely did not intend to impose a curse of drudgery upon him. Work is a blessing not only because of the material things procured through it, but because of its wholesome effect upon the mind and body of the worker. But this effect comes only when the work is really enjoyed, when the worker feels that he is really contributing something to human welfare. Man by nature is active and loves to
LESSON DEPARTMENT 475 take hold of the world's work. If he does not, it is generally because of poor health, discouragement and other conditions which may have deprived him of the normal incentive to work. Much can be done by the family and the community to encourage men to be more happy in their vocation. Woman's Part In the average home the woman performs the duty of wife, mother and housekeeper. Besides the moral and educational influences which she must wield, her task is to prepare the food and the clothing and assume general charge of the household duties. In doing this she is a producer in a real sense. In fact, she has the double function of producing and distributing the necessities of life. The other members of the family depend upon her for the preparation of food and clothing but they also depend upon her for a fair distribution of the material goods to each of them. So important is this responsibility that it usually absorbs the entire time of a woman, leaving hardly time enough for rest and social recreation. This is especially true when she is the mother of a large family. Appreciation of Woman's Work The value of a woman's work is not always fully appreciated. A woman who is engaged with household duties has generally no way of measuring the worth of her service other than by the direct expression of appreciation of other members of the family. Unless those who are thus immediately served by her do not respond, the woman "feels that she has failed to do something really worth while. If her work is not valued, she feels that it is not valuable."—Dewey & Tuft: Ethics, pp. 286-587. The difficulty lies in the nature of woman's work. In this age of specialization, of scientific methods, and of quantitative measuring of results, it seems to some minds that woman is an unskilled laborer, a jack of all trades. Since a good dinner and a clean house is the only thing that is tangible to the unreflecting mind, woman is thought to be simply a cook and a house cleaner. The great spiritual and moral values which she produces in the character of her children can not be easily measured. On the other hand, men and women who make. Success as writers, teachers, musicians, or artists receive the social applause, while the woman who succeeds as wife and mother generally receives special mention only at her funeral and when the last rites are being performed. These conditions must change, if woman is to continue to serve in the home, now that she feels her independence and recognizes powers within herself equal to those of men. As a result of the woman's rights movement and her voice in politi- 
 cal and educational matters, the home is receiving more attention. Woman is beginning to insist upon recognition not only as a housekeeper but as a companion to man and as a mother of children. She is asking for more relief from the simple routine duties which can be done by unskilled workers or by machinery. She is asking for a voice in her husband's business. She wants to be considered as her husband's partner in the management of the farm. Men are, on the other hand, beginning to feel more and more their duty to their home. They are beginning to feel a direct responsibility in the rearing of and caring for children. The extension of education into matters of home life is developing an appreciation for woman's service. The shorter hours of labor which is giving men more time at home has a tendency to place more home responsibility upon their shoulders. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. In what ways is the happiness of the home dependent upon the material income? 2. Is wealth an absolute guarantee to family welfare? Explain the reason for your position. 3. Explain the commandment of the Lord concerning men's duty to provide for their families., 4. If aman puts forth an earnest effort and yet his income is not large enough to meet the needs which are felt by his wife to be essential, what is his duty in the matter? ' 5. What effect does it have upon a man who works hard to support his' family and yet hears his wife complain of their poverty? 6. What is the advantage of feeling that the work we are doing is worth while? 7. Why do some people not fully appreciate woman's work? 8. How does education tend to make woman's work more fully appreciated? 9. Will the shorter working day have any effect upon the condition of the home? Explain. | sk 10. Under what conditions may a married woman be justified in undertaking work outside of the home? Teachers' Topic GRATITUDE. Show Our Gratitude for the Gospel. |; 1. By living in harmony with the principles of the gospel. 2. By doing all in our power to promote the welfare of mankind. Vacuum Electric WASHERS EAS.