[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 117 | General Feature | Stretching the Food Budget — Part V — Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur or Cracked Wheat | Marion Bennion]
[Stretching the Food Budget — Part V — Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur or Cracked Wheat Marion Bennion]

STRETCHING
the Food Budget

Part V—Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur
or Cracked Wheat

Marion Bennion, Ph.D.
Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition
Brigham Young University

FOODS made from wheat are popular and widely used today in many parts of the world. Bread has often been called the "staff of life," and it is certainly well deserving of this title. Its presence or absence, as well as its quality, have influenced history through many centuries. In the United States today there is available a great variety of good food, and the average American eats many of these foods in addition to bread. However, in America, foods made from wheat contribute about one-fourth of the total energy requirements of man, while in some European countries, the wheat products are nearly twice as great.

The progenitor of our wheat today, the parent wheat, einkorn, was apparently cultivated several thousand years ago in the Near East, and with new types developed, spread all over the world. Even now in various parts of the globe wheat is being substituted for other cereal grains in human diets.

Why is wheat so popular? It grows easily in soils and climates in many areas of the world. It stores easily. It has high food value. The proteins in the ground or milled wheat, on wetting and mixing, give rise to gluten which is strong and elastic and makes possible a yeast-leavened, light loaf of bread. These should certainly be sufficient reasons for its popularity.

Wheat and wheat products provide us with a comparatively inexpensive source of calories and protein. In a limited family food budget they can be used to great advantage. However, the form of these products should be carefully chosen. Unenriched white flour or bread, for instance, is not a good buy — either economically or nutritionally. It does not contribute anything but calories and protein, the B-vitamins and minerals having been lost in milling. Whole wheat or enriched white flours and products made from these flours give you much more for your money and for your calories, and this is especially important where wheat prod-

117

FEBRUARY 1964

ucts are being used in fairly large amounts.

Wheat may be used in many delightful ways for family meals. It may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour. If you have eaten in an Armenian restaurant you may have been served a delicious golden pilaf made from pre-cooked and dried wheat called bulgor or bulgur. Bulgur wheat has been a staple in the diets of the peoples of the Middle East for many centuries. It has been produced commercially in the United States for a number of years and is gaining favor with American consumers. It is also being shipped abroad to food-short countries.

When bulgur is used in a variety of dishes it has the advantages of cooking more rapidly than whole or cracked wheat, and it may also have developed a delightful flavor from its precooking and drying process. The Western Regional Research Laboratory at Albany, California, has developed a large number of recipes using bulgur. You may be able to purchase commercially prepared bulgur or, if you are storing your own supply of whole wheat, you may enjoy preparing your own.

To Make Bulgur Wheat

1. Wash wheat in cool water and discard water.
2. Boil wheat in excess water until all water is absorbed and wheat is tender — 35 to 45 minutes, usually.
3. Spread wheat thinly on cookie sheet or shallow pan and dry in oven at 200° F until very dry so that it will crack easily.
4. Wet surface of dried wheat slight-

ly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff.
5. Crack wheat in moderate-size pieces, using mill or grinder or even a mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be used whole, giving a very chewy product.
6. This processed bulgur is easily stored and may be used in any of the following recipes. If the recipe calls for cooked bulgur simply boil in water for 5 to 10 minutes, whereby it will approximately double in volume.

If bulgur is not available or you do not care to make it yourself, you may substitute regular cracked wheat with satisfactory results. In either case, try serving wheat pilaf with a meat and vegetable plate. It has a sweet, nutlike flavor and crunchy texture your family should like very much. Or the wheat will make an excellent meat extender when used in the meat loaf, Swedish meat balls, Mexican bulgur chili, or chicken curry pilaf recipes.

Cooked and chilled bulgur may be added to your favorite cole slaw recipe for a most interesting and enjoyable salad. In fact, almost the only limit to its use is your imagination.

Bulgur, soaked overnight in salt water, may be added to yeast rolls for a nut-like flavor and texture. It is also used in the raisin bar recipe.

Using wheat in another form, that of flour, by making bread at home, may mean a savings of food money, especially if flour and yeast are purchased in large quantities and bread is a mainstay of the family fare. If whole wheat is part of your food storage plan, you will undoubtedly

118
