A The Cover: Frontispiece: -Art Layout: illustrations: Stnntl- 00. The Sea Alice Morrey Bailey I should hold you as my enemy, Remembering the smell of dust in rain, The hiss of drops in thirsty soil, the drain Of watersheds in-rivers to the sea, For I have fought as hill men always fight To keep the water on the land, the drouth With puny dams across the canyon's mouth, And tending furrows through the weary night. But I am lost in shoreless vastness, drowned In swirling blue, your ancient mystery Appeals in tongues to all not known in me, And I am mesmerized with rhythmic sound. Betrayed by fluid veins to seek your shores, I! Am no longer alien, I am yours. Palms and the Sea, Island of Maui, Hawaii Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Monterey Coast, California Photograph by Josef Muench Dick Scopes Mary Scopes As a proselyting missionary, I have had the opportunity of assisting to organize, and to work with Relief Societies in different towns in England and Wales. I wrote to my mother about this. She is president of Relief Society in my home ward. She sent me a year's subscription to the Magazine. This offered me _ adventure, spirituality; and education. Within the pages of the wonderful Magazine I found all this and more. The Magazine is a wonderful missionary tool, as well. —Elder Dale S. Call British Mission I thank my Heavenly Father for the warmth, sincerity, and variety of the Magazine. How true and wise are the editorials and the articles on points of doctrine. The lessons are beautifully written. The literature is superb — the best available. —Mrs. Nedra Zitelsberger Redondo Beach, California I feel that I must take a moment in spite of my undone work, and thank you for the "Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth, in the October Magazine. For sometime, although I have hated to admit it to myself or to anyone else, I have felt so bogged down with my housewifely tasks that I haven't known what to do. The article must have been written with me in mind! My biggest problem has been that I have so many failings, I get discouraged before I even start trying to change. Now I have a practical list of things I can do. I feel there may be hope for me after all. —Mrs. Mildred Martindale Rancho Cordova, California I have just read Sister Ellsworth's "A Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and I simply must pause to let you know that I think it is truly wonderful. Our Magazine representative said, in recommending the article to us, "I wish I had read it twenty years sooner, when I was rearing my children." Most of my own children are still being reared, and they should benefit much from my reading of this article. —WMrs. Catherine M. Jaggi Brigham City, Utah I love and appreciate the Magazine, and enjoy reading the stories and poems. I have been trying out some of the recipes, and they taste real good. I especially like the cover pictures of the Magazine and the frontispieces. I am impressed with each teacher's message. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education. —Dolly Sahadeo Corentyne, Berbice British Guiana I am so thrilled with all the wonderful articles in The Relief Society Magazine. As I am a young mother, the Magazine helps me in my home and in rearing our children. —JoAnn Slade Cedar City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. The stories contain beautiful examples of right living. —Magree G. Schaerr Kanab, Utah 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and-new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be retumed unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.