[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 114 | General Feature | A Valentine for My Husband Helen | Hinckley Jones]
[A Valentine for My Husband Helen Hinckley Jones]

A Valentine
for my husband

Helen Hinckley Jones

TODAY is Valentine's day — the day for lovers and for love. When we were young the beautiful valentine box at school was almost as exciting as Christmas with Santa Claus and his false whiskers, his hearty voice that sounded so much like Brother Hartman's, his bags of candy and unshelled nuts.

On Valentine's day we didn't want anyone in our schoolroom to be hurt or left out, so we proudly slipped a valentine for every member of the class in that fabulous red and white box. All day we fidgeted, waiting for the last period when the box would be opened and the valentines would be distributed. After that magic hour we proudly surveyed our remembrances. If everybody liked us we had as many valentines as there were children in the room. What happiness!

More important than the sentiments expressed in neat trite verses was the beauty of the valentines. Collapsible tissue inserts that stretched to things of rare beauty when the valentine stood up by itself, giving an extra dimension to the picture; animation in the form of moving arms, legs, eyes; enormous size — all of these were more important to us than the loving care bestowed upon wallpaper and floral creations. First we counted the "boughten" valentines — then the others. Yet we made valentines filled with love and thoughtfulness for our mothers, and if we had any time left over we made them for our fathers.

In those days to be liked by everyone was enough — and with a heap of valentines to prove this, our cup was running over.

As we grew older the valentine box disappeared from our teacher's desk. Then we wanted not a half a hundred valentines, but one from that special person. We were learning that "all the little bees and all the little bears, never go by threes but always go in pairs." We didn't know what love was; but we did know how it felt to be

114

[ILLUSTRATION: Heart-shaped Valentine with romantic couple inside]

attracted to one perfect person. Valentine's day was for us a day of affirmation. It was a day that made us feel important and worthwhile because we meant something special to somebody who mattered.

But now, my dear husband, we have put away childish things. We still are made happy by the affection and regard of all of our acquaintances and friends. We still need assurance that the people we care for care for us. But now there is something richer, deeper, more mystic, more mysterious. There is love.

No one can really define love. We can describe its symptoms, but we can't explain it. We know what it isn't, but we can't know fully what it is. Where words end, love begins. How lucky we are, you and I, that we can feel the things we cannot speak. How very lucky I am that I can feel love for you and know deep inside myself that you feel love for me.

Where is love born? "Deep in unfathomable depths." But once the seed of love was planted deep it was nurtured by shared joy and shared disappointment, by shared successes and shared failures. People must laugh together, and cry together, too, to bring love to bloom. These we have done. The babies we lost brought us together in sorrow, the daughters we have reared have bonded us in joy. And in sorrow or joy we have felt the spirit of each other and have said, "We thank thee, God, that our union is eternal."

More poets have written about love than any other subject, yet what have they said? They have agreed that it is the mystery of life, the surge and swell of the heart that makes living in this world an ecstacy. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. . . ."

And so, even on Valentine's day I can't tell you what you mean to me, how my heart lifts when you come home, how things in the world have new vitality because we are together.

I can only plead in the most ordinary way, "Be my Valentine."

115
