[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 84 | Special Feature | The Influence and Responsibility of Women Harold | B. Lee]
[Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963.]

The Influence and Responsibility of Women

Elder Harold B. Lee
of the Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963.]

FROM the spirit of the opening prayer, I found myself with something that seems to be in harmony with my thinking, with reference to the tremendous scope of responsibility and influence that womanhood or women in the Church might render, first to themselves as individuals, then to their husbands, as supports to their children, and as teachers and exemplars to the Church.

It was with this thought in mind that our beloved late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. said:

Youth of the Church are hungry for the words of the Lord. Teachers, be sure you are prepared to feed them the bread of life which is the teachings of Jesus Christ. If they live up to the teachings they will have more happiness than they have ever dreamed of. Sometimes we get a notion that we have to entertain people to get them to come to Church. Youth, as well as older people, we know, are hungry for the words of the Lord.

It is wonderful that we come to realize that within the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ and from the teachings of our Church leaders in this dispensation, may be found the answer to every question and a solution to every problem essential to the social, the temporal, and the spiritual welfare of human beings, all of whom of, course, are the children of our Heavenly Father.

I read somewhere a statement from the president of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana that gave me some thought. He said: "The fulness of life is not to be determined by its length but by its breadth times its depth." And, as I read further, what he meant were three things that determine the fulness of life: First, good health is essential; second, broad scholastic training. When I read that I remembered what the late humorist Will Rogers said: "The most educated person in the world is an ignorant man when you get him off the subject in which he is educated." And, third, the depth — deep spirituality. Hence, the fulness of life is determined by good health, broad scholastic training, and deep spirituality.

Wouldn't it be wonderful for a mother to hear her teenage son say, when mother sits down to read a book on the art of homemaking, "Mother, what are you reading?" And she answers, "I am reading about the art of homemaking." And to have the son say, "I couldn't think of anyone who needs it less." Wouldn't you like to have your son say that to you? Or, to have your family say on some Christmas Eve when

84

THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN

you had home night, as they come to kiss you goodnight, "Mother, why couldn't we have Christmas Eve every week?" Or, when mother and father at extreme expense have done something extra special in re-decorating or refurnishing the house, extending themselves to the limit, to have the family say, "You know, our home could now be the showplace of the whole community." Such is the touch of motherhood in homemaking that can be so vital in a child's life.

I read the other day again the words of the sainted mother of the Prophet Joseph the night that he went to get the plates. I read her writing:

On the night of September 21 I sat up very late. . . . I did not retire until after twelve o'clock at night. About twelve o'clock Joseph came to me and asked if I had a chest with a lock and key. I knew in an instant what he wanted it for, and not having one, I was greatly alarmed, as I thought it might be a matter of considerable moment. But Joseph, discovering my anxiety, said, "Never mind, Mother. I can do very well for the present without it—be calm—all is right."

Shortly after this Joseph's wife passed through the room with her bonnet and riding dress, and in a few minutes they left together, taking Mr. Knight's horse and wagon. I spent the night in prayer and supplication to God, for the anxiety of my mind would not permit me to sleep. At the usual hour I commenced preparing breakfast. My heart flooded at every footstep, as I now expected Emma and Joseph momentarily and feared lest Joseph might meet with another disappointment (History of Joseph Smith, by his mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 102).

I say to you mothers, if you even have sons and daughters who amount to what they should in the world, it will be in no small degree due to the fact that your children have a mother who spends many nights on her knees in prayer, praying God that her son, her daughter, will not fail. I remember at the foolish years of my teenage life, my mother came to me with an intuitive impression and warning which I brushed off as foolish teenagers do. "Oh, mother, that's silly," I said, then within only a month, to stand face to face with the temptation about which mother had warned. I never had the courage to go back and tell her how right she was, but I was on guard because someone warned — my mother.

Some years ago there was printed in the Era an interesting article under the title, "Seven Minutes in Eternity." This indicated some kind of forces that work beyond our sight. Sometimes we think the whole job is up to us, forgetful that there are loved ones beyond our sight who are thinking about us and our children. We forget that we have a Heavenly Father and a Heavenly Mother who are even more concerned, probably, than our earthly father and mother, and that influences from beyond are constantly working to try to help us when we do all we can. I will read just a few paragraphs this man writes under this heading, "Seven Minutes in Eternity":

. . . One day in my office I took a

85

FEBRUARY 1964

package of cigarettes fom my desk. About to apply a light to one of them, I heard a voice say as gently as any worried mother might caution a careless son, "Oh, Bill, give up your cigarettes!" And even before it had occurred to me that no one was present in the flesh to address me thus audibly, I answered: "All right!" and tossed the package into the near-by waste basket. I went all that day without smoking. Next morning, again, I reached for my tobacco tin across my desk to load up my corncob pipe. It was knocked from my hands with a slap that tossed it upward in the air and deposited it bottom upward at my feet with the tobacco spilling out. No cautioning this time. But I knew!

I haven't smoked tobacco in any form from that day to the present — this after twenty years of smoking a dozen cigars a day, lighting one from the butt of another. Moreover, I haven't had the slightest ill effect nor did I go through the agonizing torture of "breaking off." I just didn't smoke anymore — didn't have the nervous urge — didn't even give tobacco a thought.

The same strange prohibition seemed to shut down on coffee, tea, alcohol, and meats. I endured not the slightest distress in giving these items up. They simply ceased to exist for me. [Mind you, this is not a member of the Church writing.] And, inversely, a strange new sensation began to manifest itself in my muscles and organs.

I had the glorious feeling of physical detachment from the handicaps of bodily matter. No form of bodily excercise seemed to take energy that I had consciously to supply. I had always been slightly stoop-shouldered. Without any unusual excercise, my spine straightened of itself, so to speak.

Along with this physical phenomena went the inexplicable faculty of withstanding fatigue. If I wearied myself by prolonged physical labor, it was the healthy weariness of boyhood that overtook me, and a sound night's sleep wrought complete readjustment. On the other hand, I found that I could sit at my typewriter twelve

hours at a stretch, if necessary, with hardly a muscle protesting. I had suffered consistently from insomnia ever since a period in my twenties when I worked as police reporter on a morning newspaper. Now I went to bed and to sleep.

With this physical alteration came a different feeling toward those around me. This perhaps was the most astounding aftermath of the whole adventure! Certainly it appeared to have convinced my friends that some extraordinary thing had occurred, since it dramatized my rejuvenation, so to speak, and gave them something to perceive with their senses. . . .

At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I know that for a limited time one night last year out in California my spiritual entity left my body and went somewhere—a concrete place where I could talk, walk about, feel, and see; where answers were returned to questions addressed to physically dead people, which have checked up in the waking world and clarified for me the riddle of earthly existence.

I know there is no death, because, in a manner of speaking, I went through the process of dying, came back to my body and took up the burden of earthly living again. I know that the experience has metamorphosed the cantankerous Vermont Yankee that was once Bill Pelley, and launched him into a wholly different universe that seems filled with naught but love, harmony, health, good humor, and prosperity. . . . (Excerpts from "Seven Minutes In Eternity," by William Dudley Pelley, Improvement Era, June 1929, pp. 621-628; July 1929, pp. 713-721.)

Unseen forces at work can undermine, as well as strengthen our characters, and, at the same time, there are unseen forces that strengthen or threaten to destroy our homes. I read from a statement by President Joseph F. Smith, in order to impress these facts:

86

THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN

I believe that every individual in the Church has just as much right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and the understanding from God which that spirit of revelation gives him for his own good, as the bishop has to enable him to preside over the ward. Every man has the privilege to exercise these gifts and these privileges in the conduct of his own affairs, bringing up his children in the way they should go, and in the management of his farm, his flocks, his herds, and in the management of his business, if he has business of other kinds to do; it is his right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and of inspiration to do the right thing, to be wise and prudent, just and good in everything that he does. I know that this is a true principle, and I know that I know it, too; and that is the thing I would like Latter-day Saints to know" . . . (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 34-35).

It has sometimes been sorrowful to see respected members of the Church, men and women who should know better, to allow themselves to become the tools of seductive spirits. Such men, seem, for the time at least, to lose sight of the fact that the Lord has established on earth, the Priesthood in its fullness; and that by direct revelation and commandment from heaven, that he has instituted an order or government that is beyond the capacity, and that is superior to the wisdom and understanding and learning of man, so far indeed, that it seems impossible for the human mind, unaided by the Spirit of God to comprehend the beauties, powers, and character of the Holy Priesthood. . . (Ibid., pp. 40-41).

It is not the business of any individual to rise up as a revelator, as a prophet, as a seer, as an inspired man, to give revelation for the guidance of the Church, or to assume to dictate, to the presiding authorities of the Church in any part of the world, much less, in the midst of Zion where the organizations of the Priesthood are about perfect, where everything is complete, even to the organization of a branch. . . . The moment an individual rises up, assuming the right to control and to dictate, or to sit in judgment on his brethren, especially upon those who preside, he should be promptly checked, or discord, division and confusion will be the result. Every man and woman in this Church should know better than to yield to such a spirit; and the moment that such a feeling presents itself in them they should rebuke it as it is in direct antagonism to the order of the Priesthood and to the spirit and genius of this work. We can accept nothing as authority but that which comes directly through the appointed channel, the constituted organizations of the Priesthood which is the channel that God has appointed through which to make known his mind and will to the world (Ibid., pp. 41-42).

I wish we could understand that principle, for among us are those who are spreading false doctrine, setting themselves up as authority and to receive revelations. Presumably, when you leave this conference or your stake conference, you will find plastered on your windshield literature from these apostate groups intended to confuse. You sisters must be on guard lest you, in an unguarded moment, fall prey to those sophistries.

Parents, of course, have a tremendous responsibility. All that the Church may do can be considered only as secondary to the great responsibility of parenthood. Someone has said: "Parents wonder why the streams are bitter, when they, themselves, have poisoned the fountain." When I say that, I am thinking of modesty, of honesty. Dr. Sarnoff said: "The happiest people I

87

FEBRUARY 1964

have known have not been the people of great worldly wealth, achievements, or accomplishments. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health, and enjoying good family life."

I remember some while ago riding on a subway in lower Manhattan. There was a poster that showed a beautiful little girl, maybe six or seven, looking up into the face of a young father. They were both of them just laughing their hearts out. She apparently had told him something, and he was enjoying it, and it wasn't advertising anything. And as I looked at that happy picture, my eyes wandered down below where it asked: "Are you too old to laugh at a kid stuff?" Well, the answer was obvious. If you are, then don't try to teach children. And then the poster declared: "Where family life ends, child delinquency begins." It has been well said that the richest soil, if uncultivated, produces the rankest weeds.

Elder Adam S. Bennion told us about a survey that he made over years of experience with honor students at various graduation exercises, the valedictorians. And, to his amazement, he found that in the great majority of cases, those who had been thus honored, were the sons and daughters of widowed mothers, in large part. That achievement in no small part is due to the great influence of wonderful mothers.

I came across a statistical study that was made of happy marriages and divorces, where it

was found that the following factors have a very high statistical correlation with successful marriages. Note these: first, age twenty or more for both partners at the time of marriage; second, first date alone for both partners occurred in the late teens; third, courtship for at least nine months; fourth, no pre-marital petting or sexual relations; fifth, religious and sex instructions from parents and teachers; sixth, church membership and attendance at least three times a month.

Now this was made by someone other than members of the Church. Factors that had high statistical correlation with divorce were: first, teenage marriages; second, early dating alone, often as early as thirteen years; third, little or no religious instruction in the home or poor church attendance; fourth, most sex instruction from friends; fifth, heavy petting and sexual relations before marriage, often with persons other than the one whom they later married (a pretty shaky foundation on which to found a home).

I heard a lovely mother, she may be here, who quoted this beautiful verse:

Father, between Thy strong hands,
    Thou hast bent
The clay but roughly into shape, and lent
To me the task of smoothing where
    I may
And fashioning to a gentler form Thy
    clay—
To see some hidden beauty Thou
    hadst planned
Slowly revealed beneath my laboring
    hand;

88

THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN

Sometime to help a twisted thing to grow
More straight; this is full recompense, and so
I give Thee but the praise that Thou wouldst ask —
Firm hand and high heart for the further task.
—Dorothy Littlewort
(Quoted from Teaching As the Direction of Activities, by John T. Wahlquist, page 11.)

In a letter written from Liberty Jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote to the saints:

You know, brethren, that a very large ship is benefited very much by a very small helm in time of a storm by being kept workwise with the wind and the waves. Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power and then may we stand still with the utmost assurance to see the salvation of God, for his arm shall be revealed.

This I pray we may all do, exerting all that lies within our powers to raise the standard and to maintain the high richness of life which the Church and gospel teachings will offer to our children and our people, and then with full assurance that God and agencies beyond our sight will stand by us to aid and to augment our humble efforts. That this may be so, I pray humbly in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.

White Miracle

Linnie F. Robinson

These are the days one never thinks will come,
These days beyond the harvest, days of death;
As winter spreads its frost upon the ground
It makes a crystal beauty of its breath,
And sends a silence, louder than the hour,
Into the soul, speaking of time and change.
It lays a hand upon the lips of man
And stills the song upon the summer range.
Yet, in the filigree of white on bough,
Turning these slender trees to fragile lace,
I long to hold back time before my face.
Oh, let no sudden blast break here
With black-browed fury to change this world
And carry off this frosted miracle.

89
