[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 152 | Lesson | Social Science — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Ariel | S. Ballif]

SOCIAL SCIENCE • Divine Law and Church Government

Church Government: Its Organization and Structure

Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

For Fourth Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government.

The Church is the body of believers, organized [by the Priesthood] according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers, and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth. (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 22).

Zion, "The pure in heart," the kingdom of God here upon the earth, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and no other, and with its divinely restored power of the priesthood of the Living God, with its ordinances, organizations, agencies, and facilities, and with its message of pure, eternal gospel truth, it reaches out the hand of fellowship to the whole human family, to lead the Father's children into transcendent joy, eternal progress, and the presence of our Lord (RICHARDS, STEPHEN L: Where Is Wisdom? page 406).

The Priesthood is a dynamic creative power and a directing force upon the earth. Adam held the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God. In the various dispensations of time, God has activated his Priesthood, instituted his government, and offered his services to the human family.

Having in mind the welfare of his children and being constantly aware of the purpose of creation, God has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth today. In it there is a fitness of the gospel being administered by his authorized agents. This means that all the wisdom, counsel, and direction (divine law), that God has ever revealed to man to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation have been restored.

The Restoration of the Priesthood

The 6th of April, 1830, was both a climax and a beginning in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The major event in its history took place in a grove in early spring of 1820. In this quiet, peaceful place the testimony of the ancient scriptures was verified as the boy Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son.

Their declaration to him, that the Church of God was not upon the earth, began a chain of events that

152

LESSON DEPARTMENT

climaxed in the organization of the Church.

These events included instruction and training by heavenly messengers, the key events happening in May and June of 1829, when power and authority to act officially for God upon the earth were conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist and apostles Peter, James, and John, the men Christ had chosen in the meridian of time to head his Church following the crucifixion. Shortly after the restoration of the Priesthood, the translation of The Book of Mormon was completed. It became a new witness for God testifying of the mission of Jesus Christ.

With the Holy Priesthood as his authority to act and the witness to the world of the fulness of the gospel contained in The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph brought the first phase of his work to a focal point with the organization of the Church.

Church Government Is the Priesthood in Action

It is most significant to note how little attention was given to the structure of Church government until the Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver.

We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith).

After the Priesthood was given to them, Joseph and Oliver explained the principles of the gospel, baptized those who received a testimony, and then set up the official organization

and government of the Church (see Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants) patterned after the structure of the Church Jesus had established while he was upon the earth.

The Enlightenment of the Holy Ghost

The Prophet Joseph informs us that immediately following their baptism, the Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied of important things to come. Joseph says:

Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of . . . (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:74).

After receiving the authority of the Priesthood and the enlightenment of mind from the Holy Ghost, the Church was organized. Through the process of inquiry and revelation, the Prophet received the detail of the structure and government of the Church, not all at once, but step by step until an organization unequaled by the efforts of man, has been perfected.

The Sacredness of Priesthood Callings

In our course of study we are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and is the basis upon which Church government and organization are built. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded upon protests against the alleged mistakes of any existing Churches. It was founded

153

BEAUTIFUL
SACRED
MUSIC
FOR
THREE PART
WOMEN'S CHORUSES

FORTH IN THY NAME, O
    LORD I GO ..................Schumann .20
GOD IS LOVE ....................Shelley .20
HEAVENS ARE TELLING ....Haydn .25
IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY
    COMMANDMENTS ....Madsen .25
IN THY FORM ..................Madsen .20
LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT
    FOR JOY ....................Stephens .20
LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE
    ....................................Haydn .22
LORD'S PRAYER ..................Gates .20
LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS
    HOUSE TO THEE ..........Madsen .20
MY REDEEMER LIVES ..........Gates .20
O DAY OF REST AND
    GLADNESS ..................Schumann .20
OMNIPOTENCE ..............Schubert .20

Use this advertisement as your
order blank
Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah
Please send the music indicated
above.
□ On Approval    □ Charge
□ Money Enclosed
Name ............................................
Address ........................................
City and State ..............................

Daynes Music
Company
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

by the Priesthood of God through
direct instructions from Christ himself.

We must keep in mind that every
office and calling in the Priesthood,
both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is
sacred and important to the work of
the Lord. To be ordained to a calling in the Priesthood is a distinction,
and to function in the government
of the Church is an honor and a
blessing. To be worthy to act as
the authorized agent of God, exercising his power among men, demands God-like actions in all areas
of human behavior. The nearer
men come to perfection, the greater
their effectiveness in their Priesthood callings. Therefore, as the
body of the Priesthood bearers
achieve this perfection, it is reflected
in the operation of the Church.

The Worth of Souls

The importance of the Priesthood
in Church government is pointed
out in the above discussions.
Nothing can be done officially
without the authority of the Priesthood. It should also be pointed
out that the government of the
Church, the total organization and
program of the Church, are designed by the Creator for the welfare of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that
God's major purpose and concern is
the perfection of man. For example, in the beginning all the intelligences existed coeterally with
God. The personality of man becomes sacred by the fact of the
spiritual Fatherhood of God; and
as a major evidence he, the Father,
gave his Only Begotten Son as a

154

sacrifice to open the way for all mankind to have everlasting life. Whenever the Church of God has been upon the earth, its major duty has been to inform mankind of the purpose of life, man's relationship to God and to man, and to make man aware of his own possibilities and responsibilities as a child of God.

Calling people to repentance, or to accept the pattern of life that will assure them of their greatest accomplishments in life and exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is the perpetual assignment of the Priesthood.

Priesthood Quorums and Church Organization

To be effective in the lives of people and in the organization and operation of the Church, there need to be system and order in the bestowal of and the operation of the power of the Priesthood. Determining factors in making the privilege of Priesthood bestowal include worthiness of character, willingness to serve, and knowledge of the duties and obligations of the Priesthood to be conferred.

Of most importance in the effective use of power, is getting it under control and keeping it available. Proper connection with the source of the power is of vital importance. In discussing the Priesthood, God is the source of the power, it is controlled and directed only through the authorized agency upon the earth and the connections are activated by righteousness.

With every man in the Church a potential Priesthood holder, it is essential that there be effective regulations governing the use of this power. To the Priesthood holder who serves the Lord in righteousness, there is no limit in the good he can do on his own. But, to hold an office in the government or a position of leadership in any organization of the Church, he must be called to the office by the proper authority.

To provide an orderly operation and development of the Priesthood, the members holding the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood are organized into quorums. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a quorum is a specially selected or chosen body referring to all the members of that body, such as a quorum of deacons, quorum of elders, etc.

The objectives of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums are: (1) to

LESSON DEPARTMENT

LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL
WORRY FREE
To
HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC
(New low fares)
EUROPE
21 Day Excursion Tours
(Save 30%)
THE HOLY LAND
including Egypt, Lebanon, Israel
Turkey, Greece and Italy
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th)
HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT
August '64
including World's Fair in New York
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon)
(Authorized Agent for all Domestic and
International Carriers)

MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC.
(Bonded)
(Your Experienced Travel Counselor)
14 South Main Street
328-3161
Salt Lake City
"There is no substitute for experience"

155

FEBRUARY 1964

promote gospel scholarship by teaching the doctrines of the gospel to every member; (2) to provide opportunities for Church services; (3) to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families; (4) to provide adequate fellowship and fraternalism through socials, athletics, and the like, for all quorum members. (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21.) The quorum as an organized body of the Priesthood implies an ideal standard of conduct, a common purpose, unity of decision, and a vital interest in the welfare of each member.

The quorum thus becomes a training ground for Church leadership. In fact, when the quorum functions to its full capacity and design, it could meet most successfully all the activity and instructional needs of the Church. Certainly not by the quorum meeting as such, but by fully carrying out the quorum objectives, all necessary organization could be formulated under Priesthood leadership.

The Priesthood in Church Government

The basic structure of Church government is seen in the administrative officers and organization of its geographic units. Church government is the function of the Priesthood. The authority and keys of the Priesthood are centered in the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of the Church. The President, with his Counselors, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Patriarch, the Assistants to the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric constitute the General Author-

ities of the Church. They administer the affairs of the Church through stake, ward, mission, and branch officers.

The stake presidency is appointed by the First Presidency. By conferring upon the stake presidency the proper authority, they can call and set apart the necessary stake officers and conduct all the business that pertains to the operation of a stake. Excepted are bishoprics, patriarchs, presidents of high priests' quorums, stake mission presidents, stake clerks, and high councilors (without permission from a General Authority). These ordinances and settings apart are reserved for members of the Twelve, Assistants to the Twelve, and now the Presidents of Seventy who are ordained high priests.

The bishopric is approved by the First Presidency, and is set apart by the proper General Authorities. The bishopric can then proceed to call and set apart the necessary ward officers; however, the bishopric is directly responsible to the stake presidency.

The stake presidency can call and set apart branch presidencies when branches are necessary.

The missions of the Church are presided over by a president called and set apart by the First Presidency. The mission president with his two counselors preside in the mission. The branch and district presidents are appointed and set apart by them. They represent the First Presidency and conduct the official business of the mission under the direction of the First Presidency.

The Priesthood quorums are sup-

156

porting units to the branches, wards, stakes, and missions. They provide the manpower that the officers of these organized units need, in order to carry out the program of the Church. The ecclesiastical line of authority governs and operates the program of the Church. The Priesthood line of authority is responsible for developing leadership abilities in each quorum member through the Priesthood objectives. All Church members are subject to call by the proper ecclesiastical authority to fill offices in the Church program of branch, ward, stake, or Church.

Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints means activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only . . ." (James 1:22).

As has been indicated, the quorum is the training ground for leadership in the Church. An important characteristic of leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare, to improve one's ability to do something for others and do it to the best of one's ability. Ward and branch membership is the place where this preparation is put into action.

The Gospel of Repentance

The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Christ gave mankind a perfect example and presented a way of life that would lead to perfection. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17).

The call to repentance is extended to people everywhere, in all walks

LESSON DEPARTMENT

WORLD'S FAIR TOURS

21 days — June 21 to July 11:
World's Fair, Church historical places
(does not include pageant).

27 days — July 13 to August 8:
World's Fair, Church historical places.
Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also,
Quebec and Montreal, Canada.

24 days — July 23 to August 15:
World's Fair, Church historical places,
including Hill Cumorah Pageant.

All tours include: Show at Jones'
Beach, Top of Rockettes, Broadway
Show and a special event ticket at
World's Fair, etc.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

and stations of life. The great objective is to bring all mankind into the light, knowledge, and wisdom of the Creator. This is the only approach to perfection. Any individual who does not do as well as he knows how has need of repentance. People should never stop extending their knowledge of all that is good.

In the program of the Church, the idea of repentance is given constant attention. Human nature must be disciplined. The appetites of man must be controlled for his own good and advancement. True repentance means a permanent change in behavior.

The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and

157

FEBRUARY 1964

elect to follow the design of the Creator. The emphasis of divine law is on rehabilitation of the wayward through wisdom, guidance, mercy, and love.

The courts or councils of justice in the Church are designed to bring people to repentance. They are to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage re-orientation of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even when it is necessary for the Church court to pronounce the severe action of excommunication, forgiveness must always be in the hearts of the members of the Church. Jesus said he would forgive whom he would, but we as individuals must forgive all.

The authorized judge in a Church court is not required to forgive the sins of individuals, but may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Certainly every judge, however, should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart.

It must be remembered that councils of justice are helpful, even essential, to personal development of offenders in that they tend to stimulate the art of discipline and self-control. The courts of the Church support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life.

It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself.

Church Government Was Initiated for Man's Advancement

Jesus dedicated his life to the service of his fellow men. This is the pattern he set for each person who enjoys membership in his Church and kingdom. Every person in the Church is a potential leader and if each one follows the program of the Church, he can prepare himself to perform any duty assigned him in the Church. One needs humility, sincerity, faith, and a willingness to work hard, to be successful as an officer or teacher.

The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. The responsibilities require service to others, assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds a confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind.

References

Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18; 20; 27; 42; 43; 58; 102; 107; 114; 115; 121; 124; and 132.

WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; and 18.

SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9.

158
