[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 108 | General Feature | Editorial: The Words That Women Write Vesta | P. Crawford]

EDITORIAL

Volume 51    February 1964    Number 2

The Words That Women Write

A woman in her home may find a recreation and a hobby, as well as continuing joy in recording her thoughts, her hopes, and inspiration, and the history of her beloved family. The words that she writes may be in the form of letters to the dear ones in the home of her girlhood, to her husband's cherished people, to her children or grandchildren away at school, or in the mission field. She may inscribe for future generations the family faith, and the coming together of the intellectual legacies of ancestors remote in the stream of time.

The woman who finds that words move easily from her mind to the written page, may hope that her talents and inclinations can be developed beyond the lovely art of letter writing and record keeping, to the more formal composition of poetry and essays and stories — more ambitious writings, intended for an audience beyond the family circle.

One whose written words are to be treasured over the generations must be close to the deep springs of life — close to the world of nature — the earth home — close to flowers and trees and the majesty and symbolism of mountains — near to the stark somberness of the desert and akin to the greening furrows and the golden harvest. This is the objective, lovely, beckoning world that can be interpreted through a gifted individual who is grateful for her tenure upon the earth — stirred by the moods of clouds and wind and rain — and the silent winter of snow.

In addition to self-expression from a personal interpretation of the natural environment, a writer needs to strive for an awareness of the weakness and the strength, the joy and the sorrow, the hopes and the relinquishing that characterize the developing human spirit.

108

• Belle S. Spafford, President

• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor

• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor

• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence A. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Marie M. Young
Josie B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Charlotte A. Larsen
Edith P. Backman
Winnefred S. Manwaring
Verna W. Raymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Anderson
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Pearle M. Olsen

Else T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Bernie M. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
LaVera S. Bunker
Irene W. Buehner
Elaine C. Cannon
Grace Folsom
Hazel S. Love
Ruth O. Swann
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva Barlow
Zola J. McGhie
Ga J. Cannon
Lila B. Waich
Lenore C. Gundersen

Some women have an empathy and discernment that glow as a light upon them; and others, perhaps more withdrawn, must cultivate their ability to enter into the lives of others and try to understand their problems, as they desire to set their pens to words which they hope will enrich and uplift the lives of others.

The joy a woman finds in self-expression gives her a glance into a wider world, for she soon realizes that self-expression can have a broader meaning if it is disciplined, upward-reaching, and forever growing.

There must be knowledge and experience in the use of words — how they may be put together for specific purposes and molded into authentic form and living strength. The rich heritage of all ages is available in the countless writings that have blessed the generations. The Bible speaks forever in inspired words of power and sublime beauty — "fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind, fulfilling his word . . . He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names."

The Book of Books can be a schooling and an ever-present help to one who would set in words the certitudes of life here and hereafter. Poetry and prose of the ages, and down to the present time, if carefully chosen, can yield a rich background and make the fountain of words resplendent with many jeweled facets.

A woman in her home, even in the short periods of comparative quietude, may take her pen in hand and draw upon her wide thoughts, her limitless environment, her family, her friends, and the gospel light, and may build with words her house of truth and beauty.
                                                                                —V. P. C.

109

**
