[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 129 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Glendale Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Representing Many Lands at Inter-Faith Friendship Festival
April 26, 1963

Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports a successful and spiritually rewarding "Friendship Social," in which the visiting teachers, many of them representing their native lands, were dressed in authentic costumes.

"Our Education Counselor Leah Frandsen wrote the script for the program. We had nearly 400 nonmembers present, representing thirty-five religious faiths. It is interesting to know just how many different religions there are and how many women can be touched through our inter-faith socials."

129

FEBRUARY 1964

Columbus Stake (Ohio) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference
May 12, 1963

Standing at the left in the front row, Geraldine Twitty, chorister, and next to Sister Twitty, is Genevieve Johnson, President of the Columbus Second Ward Relief Society, who served as organist; Alice L. Wilkinson, member of the General Board of Relief Society, stands at the right in the front row, and Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, stands at the right in the second row.

Sister Rush reports that this occasion marked the first stake performance of this group of Singing Mothers. Five ward Relief Society presidents and four stake board members, in addition to Sister Rush, are represented in the chorus.

Denver West Stake (Colorado) Inter-Faith Social and Fashion Show
June 4, 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: Laura Cutler, Second Counselor, in charge of the social science presentation; Mollie Richardson, First Counselor, in charge of the fashion show; President Russell C. Taylor of Denver West Stake Presidency; Della H. Teeter, President, Denver West Stake Relief Society.

Sister Teeter reports: "On June 4, 1963, Denver West Stake held an inter-faith meeting and fashion show, with the theme 'A Woman's World.' The social science presentation of 'God So Loved the World' was portrayed with the stake Singing Mothers furnishing the music. The chorus was directed by Leah Greenberg, with Sally Guillian as accompanist, Betty Butterworth as vocal soloist, and Ivagene Thompson as violin soloist. Addresses were given by Sister Teeter and President Taylor. The fashion show, with seventy-two participants, was an end result of a basic sewing course conducted by the stake Relief Society under the leadership of Elma Walker. There were approximately 300 present, including known representatives from forty-six other churches. We enjoyed a delightful social hour in the cultural hall, with displays of the four lessons by stake class leaders."

Redondo Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Various Stake Activities
April 28, 1963

Front row, left to right: Lynne Despain, organist; LeDeane Cobabe, chorister; Ruth Witty, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society; Jena Westover, First Counselor; Doris Phillips, Second Counselor; Irene Buehner, member, General Board of Relief Society; Norma Nichols, of the General Board of the Primary Association.

Sister Witty reports that the Redondo Stake Singing Mothers have presented the music for many occasions, including a fashion show in cooperation with the Mutual Improvement Association, the visiting teacher convention, and closing social, April 19, 1963, and stake quarterly conference April 28, 1963. The above photograph was taken immediately following stake conference.

130

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows a group of women in white blouses arranged in rows, appears to be a choir or organization group]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Middle image shows a larger group of women and some men in what appears to be a church or meeting hall setting, with people arranged in multiple rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows another group of women in white clothing arranged in rows, with floral arrangements visible in the foreground]

FEBRUARY 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Orem Stake (Utah), Orem Seventh Ward Presents "Relief Society Hall of Fame"
Commemorating the Birthday of Relief Society
March 13, 1963

Left to right: First Counselor LaRee H. Brough as Emma H. Smith; Bella Evans as Eliza R. Snow; Minnie E. Hill as Zina D. H. Young; Marilyn Van Leuvin as Bethsheba Smith; Lola Wilberg as Emmeline B. Wells; Mable Williamson as Clarissa S. Williams; Karilin Robb as Louise Y. Robison; Second Counselor Emma S. Nicholes as Amy Brown Lyman; Ward Relief Society President Vanza J. Ekins (in frame at the right) acted as narrator and created the presentation of the program "Relief Society Hall of Fame," and represents President Belle S. Spafford.

Bertha J. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each sister was framed in portrait fashion. Background music was furnished during the narration and introduction of each president. Songs which were composed by our early presidents were sung by a small group of Singing Mothers, which added to the spiritual atmosphere of the program. Each sister wrote her own biography of the president she portrayed, and expressed the pleasure and testimony she gained from doing so. A beautiful birthday cake and punch were served to the many sisters in attendance. Special invitations were sent to all the sisters in the ward, and many who had never attended Relief Society came to the social. We feel that everyone received a faith-promoting introduction to the origin and growth of Relief Society."

132

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Valley View Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society Presents "Music In Relief Society" As a Theme for "Friendship Day"
May 24, 1963

Grouped around a table depicting the part music plays in Relief Society, left to right: Wylene Fotheringham, Work Director Counselor; Lucy Perry, Education Counselor; Elaine Jack, literature class leader; Lois Oswald, President; Eileen Sherren, organist; Eula Romney, work meeting leader; Beulah Rose, social science class leader; Doris Walton, Magazine representative.

Sister Oswald reports: "All the sisters of our stake — members and nonmembers — were invited to attend our 'Friendship Day' on May 24th. The stake board set up display tables depicting each phase of Relief Society work, and each ward had a table displaying articles that had been made at their work meetings during the year. A lovely fashion show was presented. Most of the clothing, modeled by mothers, children, and teenagers, was made in basic sewing classes held in each ward during the year. A very clever narration, written by Work Director Counselor Wylene Fotheringham, and read by literature class leader Elaine Jack, presented the theme 'Seams Like Old Times,' which added greatly to the presentation. There were many in attendance who are not regular Relief Society members. They seemed to enjoy the affair very much, and we are hopeful that this 'Friendship Day' will continue to stimulate and add interest in our Relief Society program for the coming year."

133

FEBRUARY 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Tulsa Stake - Oklahoma - Stake Board Members of Inter-Faith Social
May 4, 1963

Left to right, stake board members: Beth Peterson, chorister; Jean Green, theology class leader; Marian Asay, Second Counselor; Virginia Jacobson, President; Mary A. Robison, First Counselor; Mildred Duckworth, Secretary-Treasurer; Leola Christensen, social science class leader; Naydeen Sandmire, visiting teacher message leader; Maryalice Stewart, literature class leader; Beverly Johnson, Magazine representative.

Sister Jacobson reports: "Over 160 women attended this social, about one-third of whom were nonmembers, from a wide variety of churches. Work items from the various wards and branches were on display. We also had an excellent display of the Magazine, as well as a display of the uses of whole wheat. Guests were asked to sign the guest book and to wear name tags.

"A skit presenting the opportunities to be found in Relief Society was presented, followed by a presentation of 'My Testimony' by the stake Singing Mothers. The program was concluded with a fashion show of fashions made and modeled by members of Relief Society or their children. During the serving of refreshments, door prizes were awarded. The prizes consisted of home-baked items, as well as home-sewed items. The cultural hall was beautifully decorated, with a flower-draped archway through which the guests entered."

134

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH]

West Point Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Seated in the front row, left to right: Relia C. Smith, Education Counselor; Afton A. Ellison, President; Elma B. Johnson, Work Director Counselor; Irene R. Nielsen, Secretary-Treasurer; standing at the left, in front, chorister LaRue R. Campbell; seated at the organ, accompanist Karma R. Echols.

Sister Ellison reports: "Many opportunities have been given our stake Singing Mothers chorus this year, with each ward participating to make each occasion inspirational. In April we were privileged to sing at stake quarterly conference, when President Hugh B. Brown and Sister Brown, Sister Elsa T. Peterson of the General Board of Relief Society, and Sister Amy Casto, of the General Board of the Primary Association were the speakers.

"At our stake Friendship Day over 500 were in attendance, with twelve other religious being represented. The opening part of our afternoon social was the beautiful music from our Singing Mothers chorus, being followed by displays in the cultural hall from work departments, lesson departments, Magazine displays, and the food and recipe table. Refreshments were served. Many favorable comments were given, especially from nonmembers. We were asked to furnish the assembly music for the Brigham Young University Education Week here this summer, and again felt the thrill that comes from the group participation and the blending of the voices of the sisters in our stake. We feel strength and unity throughout the stake from the opportunities that come to us through our Singing Mothers."

135

LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with 1960s hairstyle holding an open book]
