[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 92 | Fiction | Mama Lives in the Kitchen — Second Prize Story Lael | J. Littke]

Mama Lives in the Kitchen**

*Second Prize-winning Story*  
*Annual Relief Society*  
*Short Story Contest*

[PHOTOGRAPH: Portrait of a woman with dark curled hair wearing what appears to be a collared shirt or jacket]

*Lael J. Littke*

I hadn't noticed that Mama was so abused at our house until Linda told me about it. She said she hadn't even realized it until the day the Relief Society visiting teachers came and four-year-old Cissie let them in. Sister Clayton asked if Mama was at home, and Cissie, pointing with a plump finger, said, "She's in there," and then added, "Mama lives in the kitchen."

I was there, but I wouldn't have thought a thing about it, which, Linda said later, just went to show how much I took Mama for granted, but then, what could you expect from a ten-year-old? she asked. She was fifteen and could even conjugate a verb, so I figured that she must know what she was talking about.

Linda called a conference with Papa that very night while Mama was putting Cissie to bed. She gave a dramatic re-enactment of the scene, with me acting as Sister Clayton and asking, "Is your mother at home, Cissie?" Then Linda, as Cissie, pointed with an elegant flourish of her arm which I didn't recall at all and said, "She's in there—Mama lives in the kitchen," in a deep, hoarse voice that didn't sound much like Cissie.

Papa was impressed. "Cissie ought to go on the stage," he said.

Linda ignored him. "There it is," she said, "spoken in the unvarnished innocence of youth."

"I wonder if that's as unblemished as untarnished innocence," said Papa. Sometimes Papa talked very funny.

"It's a shame," continued Linda. "Mama never gets out of that kitchen."

"Well, now," said Papa, scratching his head, "I have to dispute that point. I do recollect a time we let her out to go have a tooth pulled."

Linda sighed. "Oh, Papa," she said, "be serious. Of course she gets out for shopping and church and things like that, but, figura-

92

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman's head and shoulders visible behind three tall stacks of plates, with books on the left stack and a teacup on the right stack]

tively speaking, she's trapped in the kitchen. Cissie showed us that. Out of the mouths of babes, you might say."

"You might say that," said Papa.

Linda was encouraged. "She shouldn't be forced to waste her life in that kitchen doing a job any ten-year-old could do. Even Karen here," she said, indicating me.

"I could not," I said hotly, feeling somehow that both Mama and I were being maligned. Frankly, I couldn't think of a single place I'd rather spend my life than in Mama's big, sunny kitchen. It was full of potted plants, braided rugs, and good things to eat, and the windows all along one side let in floods of morning sunshine that splashed across the breakfast table and flowed into our very souls while we ate. Papa said once that the sunshine was only symbolic of a greater light that Mama spread around her which, in turn, was a reflection of the light of our

Heavenly Father. It sounded awfully nice, even though I couldn't understand it all.

BUT Linda insisted Mama was an unwilling prisoner.

"What do you propose to do about it?" asked Papa.

"I've been thinking about it all day," said Linda, "and I make a motion that we let Mama go back to work. At least for the rest of the summer while I am home to run the house and take care of the children." Linda didn't consider herself one of "the children" any more.

"Mama already works," I said. "She works all the time."

"Exactly," said Linda. "But what reward does she get? She's just wasting her intelligence here without achieving anything. Cooking, washing dishes, keeping house — why, we three girls could do that with no trouble at all and leave Mama free to work and fulfill her ambitions. She can go back to the newspaper office like Corrine Blake's mother did,

93

FEBRUARY 1964

and wear pretty clothes and meet people. Once a journalist, always a journalist, you know. The smell of printer's ink gets into your blood."

"Sounds mighty unhealthy," commented Papa.

Linda had a faraway look in her eyes. "Mama used to write columns about brides and weddings, and now she lives in the kitchen and washes dishes. What a comedown!"

"Tell you what I'll do," said Papa. "I'll talk to Mama and we'll see how she feels about it. I'll tell you the verdict in a few days."

Linda pestered Papa every day to find out how things were going. She said she was a woman like Mama, and she knew she would feel like a caged lioness if she were in Mama's place with no outside life like school or a job.

In my mind's eye I pictured Mama pacing back and forth from room to room with a wild look in her eyes like the animals at the zoo. It made me feel a little lost and lonely to think Mama was so unhappy because she had to stay home and take care of us. She didn't seem unhappy. She sang cheerful little songs as she went about her work. Linda said that was just to keep her spirits up.

ONE morning after breakfast Papa stood up. "Children," he said, "and Linda," he added, "unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I would like to make an announcement. Mama is going back to work — the smell of

printer's ink is in her blood" — he looked at Linda who nodded knowingly — "and her old boss is putting her back on the payroll next week to replace a girl who is giving it all up to become a housewife."

"Mama, that's wonderful," said Linda. "This will give you a chance to fulfill yourself."

"Back to the glamour and excitement of the newspaper trade," said Mama. "Heigh ho and away I go. Printer's ink, here I come." Mama talked funny sometimes, too.

"And I'll take over here at home," said Linda. "The first week you are not to set foot in the kitchen except to eat breakfast."

"Agreed," said Mama.

Cissie, who was pouring a little mountain of salt from the shaker, looked up. "Is Linda going to be the Mama?" she asked.

"No," said Mama, "I'll still be the Mama."

"You can't be the Mama if you're not here," said Cissie.

"I'll be home after work."

"That's not the same," said Cissie. "Linda will be the Mama."

Cissie even called Linda "Mama" the first day after Mama went to work. It was like playing house and Linda enjoyed playing her part. She scarcely listened to the instructions Mama gave her and wouldn't even let Mama do the week's grocery shopping on Saturday. She said we would do it on Monday. Papa's only instructions were that it would not be fair to snitch from the year's supply of food that Mama had

94

MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN

put away. He gave Linda the money for the week and said it would have to buy everything we would need.

After Mama and Papa left, Linda said we would go right out and do the marketing. Then we would do the housework and go to Lacoola Plunge for a swim.

THINGS didn't work out quite as planned. It took us much longer than we expected to do the shopping, mainly because we went to a clothing store first, and all bought new swimming suits. Linda said there was more money than we would need for groceries, and Mama said we could budget the money however we wanted. Food was more expensive than we had expected, though, and when we got everything totaled up, we found we had to take back a carton of popsicles and two boxes of Cracker Jack because we didn't have quite enough money.

When we got home Linda decided to make a cake before we washed the breakfast dishes and cleaned the house. She had forgotten to buy vanilla so she sent Cissie and me to borrow a teaspoon from Mrs. Blazer next door. We walked carefully on the way home, but we spilled the vanilla, and Linda said only a pair of dunces would go borrow a teaspoon of vanilla in a teaspoon. I said how else would we know how much to borrow and she said we could have measured it and poured it into a cup. She said you really couldn't expect too much from children. She put the cake in the oven without the vanilla, and we waited anxiously for it to bake. Linda peeked inside the oven every few minutes to see how it was progressing. When she finally took it out, it was high on one side and squashed down on the other. Linda said that was Cissie's and my fault for spilling the vanilla, but never mind because she would build it up with frosting. At dinner Mama and Papa ate their pieces without looking up at all, but Cissie and I couldn't eat ours. It tasted like a soggy sponge. Linda said we couldn't leave the table until we ate every last crumb, and Cissie cried and said she didn't want Linda to be the Mama any more. She said she would just pretend she was an orphan girl while Mama was at work.

The next day we forgot about Primary, and I ruined my perfect attendance record. Linda said it wouldn't have done any good to remember because she couldn't drive the car to take us there. I said we could have ridden with Mrs. Blazer who teaches Cissie's class, but Linda looked angry and said I couldn't expect her to think of everything, could I?

On Wednesday Cissie fell off the swing and came into the house with blood all over her face from a cut on her head. Linda said the sight of blood made her want to faint. I wanted to faint, too, but I didn't know quite how to go about it, so I cleaned Cissie up and poured half a bottle of Mercurochrome over the cut. It ran all down Cissie's face and neck and looked worse than the

95

FEBRUARY 1964

blood. Cissie spent the rest of the afternoon sitting on the front porch with Mama's umbrella over her head. When Mama came home she said a tiger had bitten her under the weeping willow tree and Mama had better stay home to protect her.

THAT night we didn't have supper until late because Linda put the roast in the oven just fifteen minutes before Mama and Papa came home. She said she guessed it took a while to catch on to these things. Mama didn't say anything. She just stretched like a lady of leisure and said she thought she would read her new Relief Society Magazine and go to bed.

On Thursday Linda and I spent most of the day keeping track of Cissie. She kept running away because she said Linda was too bossy, and it wasn't any fun to be home when Mama wasn't there.

For dinner that night we had leftovers from the refrigerator because all our grocery money was gone and we were out of meat.

On Friday Linda said we would hurry and clean up the house and then go for a swim at Lacoola Plunge if Cissie would break open her piggie bank and lend us the money, since neither Linda nor I had a cent in our banks. On second thought, she said, we would go swimming first and then come back and work. The only trouble was that we met some of our friends and stayed until afternoon. When we did get home,

Linda told us we'd all have to work hard if we were to get finished before 5:30. Mama's usually cheerful, clean kitchen was a shambles because we had left the dishes for two days and had not scrubbed the floor all week. Soiled clothes that we hadn't bothered to take to the laundry room were stacked up by the back door.

Cissie was assigned to try to scrub the floor. She said she didn't have to since Linda wasn't the Mama and she didn't have to do what she said. Linda told her if she would cooperate we would all go down to the drugstore and have a soda, if Cissie would take a little more money from her piggy bank. We decided to go get the sodas first to give us energy for our work.

By the time we got back it was nearly 3:00 P.M. Linda hurried to start the washing and ironing after telling me to cook some rice. She said since we didn't have any meat we could just have rice and pretend we were Chinese.

I put a pan of water on to boil and poured in some rice. I poured in the whole package, but that didn't look like enough to feed five people, so I poured in another box. That filled the pan nicely.

Cissie got a pail of water and swished the mop around in it for awhile just to hear it splash, then sloshed a lot of water on the floor and pushed it around with the mop.

Suddenly I heard Linda scream. On my way to the laundry room I slipped and fell on

96

MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN

the flooded floor. Cissie scolded me for getting her clean floor dirty.

In the laundry room Linda was trying to push oceans of suds back into the washing machine. "I guess I used too much detergent," she gasped. We were surveying the disaster helplessly when we both smelled scorching cloth. Linda ran to the ironing board and snatched up the hot iron she had been using, but not soon enough. There was a large dark brown scorch mark on one of Papa's best white shirts.

"What next?" wailed Linda. After unplugging the iron, she picked up the shirt and threw it into the surging suds which by now were foaming down the sides and all over the floor.

CISSIE appeared at the door. "There's something all over the stove," she announced.

The "something" was rice. Rice bubbled up from the pan and rice flowed down onto the stove just like the detergent flowed from the washing machine. There was enough rice to feed half of China. It took us an hour to clean up the mess. It took another hour to wash the dishes and make Mama's kitchen look presentable. Cissie had just enough money left in her piggy bank to buy five TV dinners to replace the rice which we couldn't face eating after we had cleaned the stove.

Papa didn't like TV dinners, but he ate his without a word. Linda just picked at hers. After the rest of us were through, she cleared her throat.

"Mother," she said, and paused. Her face was getting a little red and she looked as if she might cry.

"Mama," she blurted, "I can't take over your job here at home. I don't know how to be an economist, a psychologist, a chauffeur, an efficiency expert, a nurse, a chef, a ray of sunshine, and I don't know what all." She threw up her hands in despair.

Mama smiled. "You don't learn it all at once, dear," she said. "It takes practice, just like any other job."

"I'm a failure," Linda said with a single tear slippery-sliding down her cheek. "I didn't do one thing right all week."

"She did, too, Mama," I said, feeling that a word should be said in her defense. "She did some things right." I couldn't think of any examples at the moment.

LINDA wiped the tear from her cheek and went on. "I thought it didn't take much intelligence to run a home and that you'd be happier working at something challenging like Corrine Blake's mother."

"Corrine Blake's mother works because she is a widow and has to," said Mama. "I don't have to and I don't want to because I find my job as a housewife and mother to be as challenging and fulfilling and rewarding as any outside job could ever be, and my Church work is stimulating, too. My rewards come all the time, as when my lovely daughters are so sweet and unselfish

97

FEBRUARY 1964

that they are willing to tend the house so I can go out to work because they think it will make me happier."

"I'm sorry I made you go to work," said Linda.

"You didn't," said Mama. "Papa told me you'd like a try at running the house and my old boss needed someone to fill in just until the new girl came. I think you gained quite a respect for the role of a housewife, and I enjoyed a few days change, so everything worked out fine. And I'm back to stay."

"Really?" said Linda. "No more job?"

"No more job. The smell of printer's ink can't even begin to compete with the aroma of cookies baking."

Cissie had been watching Mama quietly. "Are you going to be the Mama again?" she asked hopefully.

Mama reached over and gathered Cissie into her lap. "I certainly am," she said. "I'm moving

right back into my kitchen where I belong." Cissie snuggled up to her.

"And I'll be happy to move out and let an expert take over," said Linda.

Papa laughed. "Bit off a little more than you could chew, you might say," he said.

"That's the truth," grinned Linda.

"You're getting to be an adult," said Papa. "We're proud of you. You've grown up a lot this week."

Linda patted his hand. "Enough to see that if Mama wants to live in the kitchen, as Cissie says, things just couldn't be better."

"Right," said Papa.

"I've learned to leave well enough alone, you might say," said Linda.

"You might say that," agreed Papa.

We all laughed and the kitchen seemed bright and cheerful even though the sun was going down.

LAEL JENSEN LITTKE was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, where her mother still lives. She was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University.

"The Church has always been the center of my life," she writes, "and it has been my training ground, so to speak, in the literary arts, providing me with the opportunity to write programs, plays, road shows, readings, stories, and poems for use in the wards and stakes where I have lived. I also had the privilege of teaching the Relief Society literature lessons in Manhattan Ward for five years.

"My only published manuscripts, other than some in my college literary magazine, have been one other story in The Relief Society Magazine and a short play in The Children's Friend.

"We moved this past September to Monterey Park, California, from New York City, where we spent nine exciting years while my husband, George C. Littke, studied and taught at New York University. He is now Assistant Professor of Government at Los Angeles State College, and ward clerk in Monterey Park Ward. Our three-year-old daughter Lori is the joy of our lives. My greatest pleasures come from working in the Church, writing, and, of course, being a housewife and mother who enjoys 'living in the kitchen.'"

98

[PHOTOGRAPH: Winter scene of Boulder Creek, Colorado with snow-covered trees and creek]

Don Knight

BOULDER CREEK, COLORADO

Memories—on
