Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and-new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be retumed unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$3.95 Tee eee eee TST Pe Pee eae 2 AND THEY SHALL TEACH THEIR CHILDREN by Reed H. Bradford A professional provides directives in the rearing of children that every Latter-day Saint parent will want to read. As a doctor of Reed Bradford is well qualified to author such a philosophy, book. As a fervent member of the LDS Church, he has the testimony to make him eminently capable of handling this subject for Latter-day Saints. $3.50 eS 3 AT THE FOUNTAIN by Albert L. Zobell, Jr. A handy pocket size book of quotations from General Authorities of the LDS Church; alphabetically-arranged for greatit is er usefulness to speakers, teachThe quotations succinctly nail down ers, writers and readers. Gospel principles. $1.00 Deseret Book COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Gau BURR Re. Deseret Book Company 4A. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check [] money order [] I have an account, please charge []. Amount enclosed $.. On For the encircled numbered books. Name Residents of Utah please add 342% sales tax. Cus SBEREEEA 1 2 3 a 2 © ee we Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah: I hope I never have a more urgent I'll never, ever forget need for cash than I did last February. P If I do, I'm sure my hair will turn The day the roof fell in! White. I was buying six trucks on contract and business reverses had caused me to miss four payments. The company set final deadline for payment at 10:00 a. M. On Friday. I tried frantically to get another extension. The company, however, seemed determined to tie up the trucks. They wouldn't give me time to refinance, and at that time banks were not loaning money for truck payments. I was desperate. It seemed I would lose all of my past years of hard work as well as my investment. Shortly I would be out of business and out of a job. It was the most discouraging day of my life. Then I ran into my Beneficial agent. How happy I was when he reminded me that in my life insurance there was a cash loan value. I'd never dreamed it would be enough to save my investment. Four days later I held in my hand an airmail envelope containing a check for $3,500. It rea

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_02_04_SpFt_In_Young.txt) ===
President Lew Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy February 2, 1874 — December 13, 1963 PRESIDENT Levi Edgar Young, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, died December 13, 1963. Well loved and much respected, President Young had been a member of the Council since 1910, carrying forward a legacy of service received from his faithful forebears. Both his father, Seymour B. Young, a noted physician, and his_ grandfather, Joseph Young, a brother of President Brigham Young, lived to be senior presidents of the First Council of Seventy. Throughout his life President Young was devoted to scholarship and education. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1895, and immediately began a teaching career that continued, alternately with mission calls, for most of his life. He served as professor of English at the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City, and later, while attending Harvard University, he became deeply interested in history and was a noted scholar and authority, particularly in the field of western history. He taught history at the University of Utah for forty years. He was president of the Utah State Historical Society for many years, and in recognition of his contributions to research, and writing and teaching of history, he was given the 90 signal honor of membership in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a distinction usually reserved for natural scientists. He labored as a missionary in Germany, and in 1902 was named President of the Swiss Mission, becoming one of the youngest mission presidents to serve in the Church. From 1922 to 1934 he was President of the Temple Square Mission and for three years he presided over the New England Mission. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy and _sisterly love to President Young's family — his wife Valeria Brinton Young, and his three daughters: Harriet Y. Kline, Jane Y. Rawson, and Eleanor Y. Van Orden, and to the grandchildren and other relatives and friends. President Young has left a resplendent heritage of faith and good works to his family and to the Church. Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Lael J. Littke i hadn't noticed that Mama was so abused at our house until Linda told me about it. She said she hadn't even realized it until the day the Relief Society visiting teachers came and four-year-old Cissie let them in.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_02_09_Lssn_Book_Olsen.txt) ===
Ramona W. Cannon Craupia Taylor (Lady Bird) Johnson, the new First Lady of the United States, has been an unusually capable helpmate to her husband in his political, social, and personal life. Nevertheless, she has retained a strong individuality of her own. An honor student in journalism at the University of Texas, she has continued to be an omnivorous reader, an intelligent observer of the world around her, and a woman of empathy for human beings. She learned Spanish as a communicating link with other peoples. She excels as a homemaker and hostess, and her business acumen has stretched an inheritance into a comfortable fortune, principally by way of radio and television enterprises. The Johnsons have two daughters, Lynda Bird, nineteen, and Lucy Baines, sixteen. Dr. Elizabeth J. Bottcher is assistant chief of pathology at the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Administration Hospital. One of the best known pathologists in the United States, she was formerly associated with the Rochester Hospital in New York.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_02_11_GenFt_Editorial_Crawford.txt) ===
Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 159.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound. THE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1963 will be mailed to ward and stake, mission and branch Magazine representatives about April 1, 1964. Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginnings of happiness. How rich then may be the rewards when desire is followed with good works. —Pauline Bell The American Heart Association As wives and mothers, women are the guardians of family health and welfare. They know the heartbreak of helping youngsters struggle against the handicaps of rheumatic fever or inborn heart defects, of caring for aged parents overcome by stroke. Too often they know the loneliness of widowhood when — sometimes without warning — husbands are felled by heart attack. That is why so many voluntarily serve in community-wide rheumatic fever prevention programs — why mothers whose children have recovered from heart operations offer friendly, sympathetic encouragement to parents of youngsters with heart defects; why wives and mothers have made the hope of recovery at home a reality for hundreds of thousands of cardiac children, heart. Attack, and stroke victims. It is a cause that women take to their hearts, year after year. Heart fund dollars help to pay for life-saving advances in treatment of heart attack, high blood pressure, strokes, rheumatic fever. New techniques of diagnosis and surgery for inborn heart defects have created hope where none existed.