INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The fourth of July 1891, has come and gone
with its usual amount of noise and parade all over
the great Republic that glories in the stars and
stripes, drums and fifes; in its lauded patriotism
and the freedom and advance of its civilization.
In only one small portion of this grand country is
there really political equality for the sex who
form one halt of the numerical strength of the
United States of America. In Wyoming alone
does equal rights for men and women mean one
and the same thing. Even this outlook is hopeful;
the day star has risen in the West, that is going
to light the world with its effulgence. Wyoming
can afford to celebrate joyfully on Independence
Day in honor of this independent state.
	Utah did her very best this year, to celebrate
this day of days for free America; in this city
there was parading, music and speeches. All
grievances were laid aside or forgotten, none but
the best of feelings prevailing, but the fates were
not over-propitious, for in the midst of the exer-
cises in Liberty Park, up rose a tremendous
thunder storm and the rain fell in torrents ac-
companied with hail and wind, and trees were
torn up by the roots and other damage done; the
elements for some reason were in great commo-
tion, and the fine apparel donned for the occasion
was sadly bedraggled, to say the least. However
there was no great harm done, only it put an end
to the fun and merriment for the time being.
	Ogden fared a little better in this respect; the
day was comparatively a fine one; the parade
there was quite gorgeous and the procession
elaborate. The exercises in Lester Park were
uninterrupted by storms of wind or rain and in
the evening there was a grand display of pyro-
technics at the Park, followed by dancing which
kept up until a late hour.
	Provo, Logan, Richfield and other large towns
and cities in the Territory celebrated in the ap-
proved style with bands of music, processions,
patriotic speeches, fine singing and all the essential
adjuncts, to make the day a festive and jolly oc-
casion, and to impress all, and especially the
children, with the importance of making it the
day of all days in the history of the country.
	Every child born on this side of the ocean doubt-
less is imbued more or less with pride in the victory
so appropriately perpetuated throughout the
Union, in the remembrance of the people, and a
positive enthusiasm is always inspired when the
band plays Yankee Doodle, the Star Spangled
Banner, or America, and yet withal there is still
something to be desired for this glorious land of
liberty; and until the time comes when women
as well as men enjoy political privileges there
will always be a hollowness and an uncertain
sound in the rejoicing on Independence Day.
	But when the time comes, as it assuredly will,


that women are accorded equal suffrage then
there will be a jubilee, the echo of which will
reverberate around the world. Until then woman
cannot truly celebrate her independence but
thousands will continue to work for the emanci-
pation of all women, which means the uplifting
and broadening of all humanity.


