ASSOCIATIONS OF CACHE STAKE.

	Accepting the duty of visiting the Primary
District Conferences 6 in number, of the above
named Stake in place of Pres. Louie B. Felt of
the Central Board who was prevented from filling
the engagement previously made with Stake Pres.
Jane F. Molen, we arrived in Logan June 13,1891, in
time to attend the afternoon session of the Logan
district conference held in the 4th Ward meeting
house owing to the Tabernacle undergoing repairs.
comprising the 7 wards of that place, also Provi-
dence and Greenville; the house was crowded
with parents and children—encouraged by the
presence and teaching of Stake Pres. Orsen
Smith and Coun. Isaac Smith.
	The programme was well rendered by the child-
ren in clear, distinct tones, natural emphasis, and
where required, with true dramatic effect. We
would love to mention many exercises worthy of
special notice but as upwards of one hundred and
twenty-five, all worthy of praise were rendered
during our visit, it would be impossible to make
distinctions, so we will only note some of the items
for the benefit of other workers. Instead of hold-
ing one general Stake Conference where,owing to
distance, lack of teams etc.,it is utterly impossible
for hundreds of the little ones to attend, Pres.
Molen has very wisely organized district confer-
ences including three or four branches—changing
the conference each year so that all may share
alike in the benefit and pleasures. These Annual
Conferences are faithfully visited by the Stake
Presidency Jane E. Molen, Mattie B. Hansen and
Emma Pike, and the occasion made one of
especial interest by presiding authorities and
parents and children turning out en masse to sus-
tain and encourage the Primary cause. Besides
attending these, all annual meetings, entertain-
ments, fairs, etc., are promptly visited by one or
more of the Stake officers and the energy, enter-
prize and persistence of these devoted workers are
every where manifest in the advancement of the
children. Quarterly officers' meetings are also
held in Logan, where methods are devised, plans
discussed, mistakes corrected, reports given, and
all business transacted, but above all where
strength and courage are imparted from a perfect
understanding of each other, and love and con-
fidence engendered by such frequent association,
that duty becomes closely allied with pleasure.
	Complying with the wishes of Apostle Moses
Thatcher and Sister Zina D. Young, staunch
friends to the Primary work, all officers and those
taking part in the exercises remove their hats
during the services; the advantages of this custom
should be considered by all.
	The children accept the minutes in concert and
the boys are required to take their proper place
at the head and lead out on the programmes. It
was with much astonishment that we beheld so
many boys attending meeting—the girls are every-

[Column 2]

where—ever present, but by actual count there
were 550 boys at the various meetings; we were
anxious to learn by what means this was accom-
plished, and concluded that it was due largely to
the co-operation of parents, and the loving tact
of the officers that make the boys feel themselves
an actual necessity.
	Monday we visited beautiful Hyrum. The Con-
ference was held there in two meetings, compris-
ing Millville, Paradise and Farmers Branch, with
112 boys at the morning session and an excellent
programme; the manuscript paper was a little gem
and the recitations were particularly good.
	Tuesday, we reached Mendon and held two
meetings. The programme was rendered by the
children of Mendon, Wellsville not represented,
and Petersboro.The latter is a farming district con-
taining only 12 families scattered miles apart, yet
the class exercises on Church history and good
manners were among the best; it is a matter of
surprise how these children are brought together
and taught to speak and sing in such harmony!
	In Mendon we were attracted by the number
of children able to play on the organ, and their
correct singing was quite praisworthy.
	Wednesday we attended the Smithfield Confer-
ence which included Hyde Park, and Benson
Wards, the latter absent and the Smithfield
schools being in session, the large morning meet
was composed mostly of Hyde Park people. In
the afternoon Smithfield was well represented
and throughout the day the exercises made a de-
lightful entertainment, the singing being especi-
ally good.
	The weather so far had been most favorable,
but Thursday morning Richmond was favored
with a heavy shower which, though ceasing just
before the meeting hour we feared would detain
many at home, but to our surprise the large meet-
ing house was well filled and in the afternoon
crowded. We were promised a treat in this
place and were gratified beyond anticipation.
The stands were tastefully draped with festoons of
evergreens and flowers and house plants artisti-
cally arranged. Here, places of business are
closed and the people give their undivided atten-
tion to the Primary Annual Conference which in-
terest must secure success.
	Lewiston and Cove Ville are here represented
and the programme was full of interesting variety
2 or 3 selections of local interest composed by the
Richmond poetess was a pleasing feature, the
choir flourishes under a young lady organist and
leader, and a Christmas carol, with bell accom-
paniment by 7 girls in white dresses and wreaths,
was enchanting. We had asked for mouth organ
solos in all places, but was only favored by one
little boy, but here to our delight 3 girls gave a
very good solo on this handy little instrument. A
blind boy from Lewiston also favored us with a
solo. We saw the picture of the former Primary
band in full uniform, but they have all passed into
the senior class, and we hope others will take
their places.
	Friday we were ready to attend Conference in-
the little town of Newton, and wondered where
people would come from, to fill the house, but
both meetings were crowded and chairs borrowed
to give seats to all. Clarkston belongs to this
district and here as elsewhere they "were up to
the times" full of energy and good works as
shown by the creditable work represented by the
children, this being the first conference since the
death of their former Pres., Sister Bessie Griffin.
A touching exibition of the love she had won was
given in tears and signs of loving remembrance
at mention of her name.
	In this place our labors ended. Though begun
by bearing up the cross in fear, they ended with
an outpouring of God's blessing upon those who
labor for His cause striving to turn the hearts of
His children to Him in sincere love and reverent


worship. The exercises to be rendered at these
conferences are all sent to the President of the
association, where the meeting is to be held, and
a complete programme is made out for the day,
preventing tedious delays and loss of time. In
all places we were cordially welcomed and hos-
pitably entertained by the officers and other kind
sisters, and return home with the full assurance
that the Primary cause is in a progressive condi-
tion in that part of the vineyard, and much credit
is due those who labor incessantly with brain
and body to accomplish the mighty work com-
menced in Zion. 
