LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON.

		Basingstoke Hants.
	DEAR MRS. COLBY:
	I have been taking a vacation, down by
the sea shore for a month, reading novels and
looking at the ocean; talking to agreeable
people, playing chess and whist in the evening
—a mere society woman; banishing the
suffrage movement, and The Woman's Tribune
wholly from my thoughts!
	Bournemouth, where I have been, is one of
the loveliest sea side places in England. Here
in the grounds of St. Peter's church is a
beautiful new monument to the Shelley family,
where Mary Wolstonecraft and William
Godwin are buried. Their remains were
recently brought from St. Pancras church
yard, London. Here, too, are Mary Wolstone-
craft Shelley, and her son Percy Florence
Shelley, third Baronet. The sexton told us
there were a large number of people daily
visiting the grave of Mary Wolstonecraft.
Her great work "Vindication of the rights of
Women" has recently been republished with
an introduction by Mrs. Fawcett.
	Thus is this noble woman honored in her
death though so persecuted and ostracised in
her life.
	At Christ's church, six miles from Bourne-
mouth, is a beautiful bas-relief of Shelley, the
great poet, just lifted from the waters covered
with sea-weed, supported by the angel of
death. You remember he was drowned in the
Gulf of Spezzia. After reading Dowden's
biography of Shelley, my daughter and I sat
by the fire discussing the poor poet's checkered
life, late one night, pitying him in his
struggles and disappointments,and condemning
his father for his coldness and severity, when,
with a deep sigh Mrs. Blatch said, "poor
fellow, it was too bad after being in hot water
all his life, to die in cold water at last." She
did not see the comic aspect of her remark
nntil I burst out laughing, though the facts
were indeed sad enough for tears.
	I have just read Mrs. Besant's grand speech
in The Woman's Tribune. I am very sorry
that she could not stay longer in America.
The sad news of Madame Blavatsky's death
met her as returning. She was cremated
only the day before Mrs. Besant reached
Queenstown. I shall now apply my self to
"Rems" again to make room for the budgets.
Sincerely yours,
		—ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
	Woman's Tribune.


"The international Copyright Law enacted
by the last Congress, went into effect July 1st.
and in anticipation of it the governments of
Great Britain, France, Belgium and Switzer-
land signified to the United States govern-
ment, through the proper diplomatic channels,
their readiness to avail themselves of the faci-
lities offered by the new law to their citizens
for copyright here, by granting to American
authors equal privileges with their own citi-
zens."


