EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball visited Lehi and
American Fork recently in the interest of the
Woman Suffrage movement, and attended meet-
ings of the association, speaking at both places.
	The Young Ladies' Associations in several of
the wards of the city have given strawberry festi-
vals of late, the object being for social and
friendly reunions, and also to gather means for
benevolent purposes, or towards books for their
libraries.
	In the article published in the last issue of the
EXPONENT entitled Memorial Day, when sum-
ming up the names of those in attendance, the
name of Julia C. Howe was accidentally omitted.
It should have been one of the first names men-
tioned, for she was a very intimate friend of Sister
Hannah T. King's.
	Enthusiastic and interesting political meetings
of citizens have been held in this City during the
last few weeks, and the agitation of the subject
of government and kindred topics thus brought
before the people will be educational to the
masses, and especially so to the young people
who have had little knowledge of the principles
of the national parties.
	The Relief Society of Farmer's Ward held a
meeting on Thursday July 9th, at the residence
of Mrs. Margaret Peart, Pres. Emma Woodruff
presiding. There were present as visitors Sisters
M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Howard, E. B. Wells and Dr. E. S. Barney.
Meeting opened with singing "How firm a founda-
tion." Prayer by Sister E. B. Wells; singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved after
which Pres. E. Woodruff made a few opening re-
marks and expressed her desire to hear from
Pres. Horne and the other visitors; brief ad-
dresses were made by Sisters Howard, Horne,
Kimball, Barney and Wells, upon subjects of
special interest to the sisters at the present time,
particularly the political situation, the advance-
ment of woman, her influence upon society, and
the need of being prepared to stand alone and re-
main true to the faith in the midst of trials.
Coun. S J Cannon made brief remarks express-
ing her appreciation of the good teachings the
sisters had given, and her own desire to improve
and do good. Pres. Emma Woodruff thanked
the sisters for their visit and the good instructions
that they had given, desiring to prove faithful unto
the end. Singing "O, say what is truth," etc.
Benediction by Sister Taylor. After the close of
the meeting refreshments were served to all
present, and social conversation indulged in for
about an hour, when the sisters separated, having
enjoyed a very pleasant meeting together.


[Column 1]

