A LITTLE GIRL'S LETTER.

	FREMONT, PIUTE Co., Utah, June 8, 1891.
Miss Eva Young:
	Dear Sister:—June came but not decked

[Column 2]

with roses, for she was accompanied by her
stately lover, chilly December. The summer
sun came blazing forth and the gallant prince
fled to his northern home. He must have left
the gates open in his hasty flight, for the wind
and those friendly little companions of his
summer hours (the gnats) have not been lack-
ing in quantity or quality since.
	Well, I've returned from my trip to the
"Sunny South," and according to promise will
give a brief account of the winter's travels.
My companions and I, were permitted to take
a journey over the great Western continent,
North and South America.
	We started late in Sept., visiting all the
states and their principal cities in the Union,
also all the places of renown, a few of
which I will mention. You will understand
that the whole of this journey was taken by
the aid of that great railraod, the human
mind.
	We first passed down Grand Canyon to Co-
lorado, through which the Col. river runs,
some places faster than the fastest R. R. train,
while on either side rise abruptly solid gra-
nite walls to the height of half a mile. Next
we visited the sugar maple and grass regions of
the New England and Middle Atlantic States.
The former contain the greatest number and
most important factories in the U. S. The
Merrimac, a river of New Eng. drives more
machinery than any other river of its size in
the world. The Middle Atlantic States have
the most extensive coal beds in North Ameri-
ca. They also produce petroleum or rock oil
and iron in great abundance. N. Y., the
Empire State, contains one tenth of the po-
pulation of the whole country. N. Y. City,
the metropolis of America, has a population of
1,206,299. In commercial importance it is
surpassed only by London, Eng.
	Pennsylvania produces the most coal, iron
and petroleum, and also ranks among the first
in dairy products.
	The dismal swamps lie between Virginia
and North Carolina. Nothing will decay in
these swamps. A body was found there a
few years ago in a perfect state of preserva-
tion. Perhaps the body of "the maid" or
"lover so true."
	The cotton fields of the Southern States and
the Orange Groves of Florida were of special
interest,but we failed to get any oranges, except
in our dreams.
	I, being a lover of nature, was especially in-
terested in the Mammoth caves of Kentucky.
They extend nine miles into the earth. To vi-
sit all parts requires 150 miles travel. There
are deep holes, natural domes, and lakes con-
taining eyeless fish.
	The Yellow Stone park of Wyoming, with
its numerous geysers and other natural won-
ders was very attractive.
	Our own Great Salt Lake, of which the
poet sings, is the only pure salt lake in the
world.
	What took my fancy more than all was the
beautiful Yosemite valley of the Sierra Neva-
da Mts. in California. With its gardens of wild
flowers, and beautiful water falls one of which
is the highest fall in the world, descending
1,500 feet which pours down over a granite
wall more than half a mile high, into the
Eden below. Here are boiling springs, mud
volcanoes, and the biggest trees in the world.
some being 2,000 years old, and so large that a
man can ride seventy-five feet through the
hollow trunk of one that has fallen to the
ground.
	This is only a review of what I've studied,
but I believe it is good practice for me; it
helps me to remember.
	Fond love to all, I'll write to auntie soon.
