THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old fashioned garret! Methinks I
hear some one say, rubbish! that's all there is
in the garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; al-
low me to tell you in the garret there is inspi-
ration for the muse, and for me there is
romance in the old NewEngland garret which
haunts me still, and

"Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
Fond memory brings the light,
	Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber"
in the selfsame garret where I played so
much when a child and I wrote my first,
poor verses, at eight years old, and where I
was continually making new discoveries of
old lace and ribbons for my dolls. There is
as much poetry in it as there is in the par-
lor, and more. Parlors are very prosy, prim
affairs, and one is always afraid of doing the
wrong thing in one of those old-fashioned
ones, that are never opened except on grand
occasions; and never, one might almost say,
for children. I remember parlor chairs with
their straight, upright backs, and funny, tall
legs, used to seem to stare at me. When a
little girl I crept in softly to take a peep
around; and I said then, and I maintain it
still, that I would never shut up the best
room in the whole house and make it
gloomy and dark, to be used only for com-
pany.
	But if there is anything more inspiring
than a musty old garret, it is spring time,
groves, meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods,
orchards and the like—nature's haunts; these
are all suggestive and poetical and especially
when the birds are singing their sweetest
notes in the tree tops, and the boughs nod-
ding and swaying, keeping a sort of irregular
time to the unwritten music of the songsters.
Ah, yes, apple-blossoms, they come with the
early spring, and if I am going to talk of
garrets, and old books, and antiquities
generally, and grandmothers, and old maids,
and love letters, I must shut out the scent of
lilacs, the violets and the pink and white ap-
ple-blossoms, with their dainty, subtle per-
fume, or I shall wander off into dreamland.

[Column 2]

I must confess that garrets are not so ex-
quisite or charming as these, but they have a
history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are any such old
houses standing now, as there were in the
country towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five
years ago, but the pictures of them, outside
and in, are fresh in my mind to-day. I am
very much afraid most of them are remodeled,
for this is a stylish age we are living in; but
when I was a little girl there were many such
romantic places, and each one of them had a
garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely ar-
ranged in dainty bits of beautiful things, and
she herself in such a funny gown, (not dresses
then, but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser.  It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely even fit her little
figure,but it was red and blue changeable silk,
bright and gay, heavy enough to stand alone,
and the short waist and shorter sleeves were
trimmed with very yellow lace, just ready to
drop in pieces with age. The child was a
quaint one, and the dress was queerer still—
but a spell seemed upon her, she was always
thoughtful, and at this particular time she
was also very pensive. I don't mind tell-
ing you a few of her thoughts. She might
almost be called visionary, for she seemed to
see the future all in a panorama, spread out
before her, very much as we who have lived
long, look back over the days that are past.
She had been rummaging more than usual,
and trying to rake up something fresh; and
she had succeeded, for away in the further-
most corner of the garret, from under the very
eaves of the house, she dragged out a budget
of old papers, tied in bundles. So sitting
upon a broken stool, in her silk and lace, she
began to investigate these old papers. First
of all, she soliloquized, I like old things that
are pretty and have a history, like old pic-
tures, and silks, and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about, and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe that I am a woman
and all that, but old papers like these are use-
less. I can't see what people save them for,
unless they are deeds, or records, or valuables
of that description, and those are always
locked up in desks, and some man carries the
key. Yes, some man, I wonder why women
don't? They have the keys of the parlor and
cellar and pantry, and the big chest of draw-
ers, where valuable linen is kept, but then I
suppose women have nothing to do with pa-
pers, and documents, and so on.
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much
I mustn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many,but I think I
won't, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by,her
sister came to look for her, and made her
take off all her finery and scolded her too
for getting herself so dusty and musty with


the old papers, and told her they were only
rubbish that  ought to be burnt, but (we'll
call her Rosabel) didn't think so, as she
went back day after day, until it was a
byword in the old home, that—Rosabel lived
in the garret. She didn't go there without
purpose though she left off playing with dolls
all of a sudden, and forgot to dress herself up
any more, but she remembered to leave the
window open to let in the sunshine and the
sweet scent of the lilacs and apple-blossoms,
and hour after hour she would sit so quietly
that the stillness was almost painful, and yet
no one must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be alone,
and needed the fresh perfume from outside; it
rested her, and helped  clothe her thoughts.
A little at a time the secret leaked out that
Rosabel actually thought she could write a
book. Was this very absurd? Folks seemed
to think so, and her mother, who was very
practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much hard work and study to be done
by way of preparation. That even her grand-
mother had studied hard,  and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions in-
to your head," she said to the child; "you
must go away to school and write composi-
tions and have them corrected, after a  long
time may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen,
all her glorious visions of fame were about
to be dispelled, for I will tell you another
secret now, her mother was strongminded,
and wanted her daughter to be a woman,
and not a sentimental wishy-washy novel
writer. I can't tell you all Rosabel's life his-
tory now, but some day I am almost certain
some little girl or woman, poking about the
musty old garret, will find that history in man-
uscript.
