EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister Wells: Many of our members
take your much valued paper. All take an
interest therein, and as we see reports in it
from different branches of the Relief Society,
we take the liberty of sending a little account
of some of our work here in Pocatello, espe-
cially of our first Fair which was held on Feb.
13th, and 14th. It was got up for the bene-
fit of our new meeting house which has been
constructed during the past year at an ex-
pense of over $1,800. And as all the
people here have to depend on daily wages
for all their means, it has been quite an un-
dertaking and we all had to cast in our mite.
The Relief Society members have also been
willing to cast in their mite. They have
given in the last half year $218,00 But I
was going to tell you of our Fair. Most of the
church members donated freely of their means
to the Fair of articles to be sold; and also
many of our outside friends donated liberally
and visited us during the Fair and we had a
very good turnout indeed. Our Fair con-
tained knitting, needle work, paintings,
crochet, plain sewing and all kinds of handi-
work well executed, as well as all kinds of
eatables which were served for lunch and sup-
per. We had good order and good music for
dancing parties in the evenings.
	I must tell you of our gold ring cake we
cut and sold it 25 cts. a piece, for which we
got $15. One of cur brethren found the ring.

[Column 2]

The cake was made by Bro. Stinger, the town
baker. This made a good deal of work for
the presiding officers and committee and they
all did their best; many of the articles were
sold and a few of the best articles were dis-
posed of in other ways.
	All the eatables that were left, were divided
among the poor.
	Our numbers are small in the Relief Society
but what there are they are very good and
come to their duties. Our meetings are very
interesting and we have many of our outside
friends visit us and they are paying strict atten-
tion to what is said; so I think that there is a
good mission being done here in this little
railroad town, which could not be done with-
out an organization. I often read in your
little paper of our Sisters from Salt Lake
visiting around in different places to cheer the
sister's up in their duties. It does us good to
hear this; but it would do us more good if they
would give us a call, and encourage us a little.
I was promised at one time that some of the
Salt Lake sisters would come and see us; and
we will wait with patience yet to see them.
	The Young Ladies and the Primary are
doing as well as can be expected for the few
there are and they all seem to take hold in
doing good in the Church and Kingdom,
which is a great and glorious thing, and I fear
we cannot fully appreciate the blessings which
are bestowed upon us.
	Myself and my oldest son have just been
back East as far as Omaha, Nebraska, where
I have two brothers living, which I had not
seen for over thirty years, and their families
have grown so large and most of the children
were those I had never seen before it was quite
a treat for us, to see the difference in crossing
the plains now and when I came with ox
teams in 1863. Omaha was very small then.
There has been great improvement made since
that time, as also along the plains. It is almost
all built up now; then there were no houses,
but now it looks beautiful.
	We had a good time with all the folks. They
all treated us well and with respect, which
they did not do in 1861, although they are
much against this gospel and cannot see the
truth, still they know the Bible almost by
heart; they are very religious and have their
morning and evening prayers, and ask the
blessing on their food, and give thanks after
eating as regular as the day comes; and
this was so everywhere we went; my brother
had a Bible which they have read so much
that it is perfectly worn out and in rags. But
still they won't believe it as it is; they would
have their babies baptized by sprinkling, and
when I showed them plainly what the Savior
says in St. Mark 16 chapter, 15 and 16 verses
in which he says, "Go ye into all the world,
and preach this Gospel and he that believes
and is baptized shall be saved," they
would have it that the Savior had done it
all; and that he had atoned for all their sins
they are doing every day; and would believe
that what He said on the cross that everything
was fulfilled meant the future as well. I had
a great deal of talk with them, but oh, how
darkened they are in their minds and would
not listen. Much could be said upon this
visit, more than would fill a book; but I hope
and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will work
upon their hearts, and all the honest in
heart that they may come to see the truth, and
I know there is many an honest heart yet to
come into this gospel. As the scripture say
that the field is wide, and the laborers are few,
so it is. There has never been a mission-
ary in that part of Nebraska, and it would
take a good worker, as they are all very reli-
gious and hard to deal with.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father, that
I have been worthy to be one who has been a
partaker of the great and glorious work, and

[Column 3]

am Thankful that the Lord has enabled me to
stand faithful to this time, and hope I shall
be able to stand fast to the end and be saved
with all the faithful which is my wish.
			R. POND, Prest. R. S.
			E. KOLHEPP Sec. R. S.
			E. STINGER Treas. R. S.
			MINNIE THOROGOOD,
			ESTHER GARNER,
			EMMA SPILMAN, 
Committee	TILLIE BECKETT
			ROSA ROUSCH,
			RASO BECK.
				Committee of Fair.
Pocatello, Idaho, June 22, 1891.


