W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The regular meeting of the W. S A. of
Salt Lake Co., was held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, June 16, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard occupied the chair. Prayer by
Phebe C. Young. May Talmage was appointed
to act as Sec., pro. tem. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read a very carefully pre-
pared article on “Republicanism,” containing
the platform of that party, also some interest-
ing points on “Government,” taken from
Chamber’s Encyclopedia.
	Elizabeth McFarlane read from “Hand
Book of Reference,” on the Government of
Utah.
	Phebe C. Young thought the present a very
important time in as much as there was now a
division of the political parties. We should
inform ourselves on the platform of each
National party and on all the leading questions
of the day, said she had enjoyed the fran-
chise for 17 years and had never failed to ex-
ercise her rights; said she would like to see
not only the ladies have their rights restored
to them, but all those natural born citizens of
the other sex who had been deprived of the
same.
	Dr. E. S. Barney had taken an interest,
when young, in studying the principles of the
different parties, but had not thought so much
about it of late years,until the recent change in


our political affairs; thought we should all
strive to be on the right side whatever name it
bore.
	Pres. Howard said she thought it quite time
we understand our positions and on what
footing we stand. In her opinion the day
would come when men would be raised up in
these valleys, who would be able to carry out
the principles of our Government in their
purity, and not for the love of gain. She re-
gretted the fact that more of our mothers and
wives did not manifest a greater interest in
our meetings. Read a short extract from an
article in Blackwood’s Magazine, entitled“A
Pessimistic Observer” giving the result of
the research of an English scholar, on the
subject of United States politics and govern-
ment.
	Louisa Spencer was heart and soul in the
cause of suffrage; thought the women of this
community well adapted to make their mark
in this direction.
	Emily S. Richards said, “We cannot afford
to be ignorant on the subject of politics.
We must study for ourselves. Read the
Declaration of Independence and the Consti-
tution, also Amendment to Constitution, and
the platforms of the parties.”
	Ann McGregor made a few remarks and
the meeting was adjourned till the 3rd Tues-
day in July.
			MAY TALMAGE,  Sec. pro. tem.


