CHARACTER RECEPTION.

	A delightful literary and social entertainment
was given by Apostle Lorenzo and Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, at their residence in Brigham City, on
the occasion of their 20th wedding anniversary,
June 12th 1891.
	The house was wreathed in vines and roses
with the artistic skill for which the hostess is
noted, creating a charming effect. The scene was
one of refinement and beauty; the pleasure of the
company was marred only by the absence, through
force of circumstances surrounding us as a peo-
ple, of the honored Groom; but a slight recom-
pense was afforded in a beautiful and touching
conjoint address of welcome in verse from Brother
and Sister Snow read by their little daughter
Mabel, this being the first exercise on the deli-
cately printed programmes presented each guest
as a souvenir.
	The unique design of the entertainment re-
quired each guest to assume the character of
some noted person, author, actor, singer, musician
statesman, etc., according to ability, and present
some favorite production of the character per-
sonated. This character personage was intro-
duced by name and title and any failure to 
properly address during the evening was to be
punishable with a forfeit, which is always apt to
cause considerable merriment. Mrs. M. J. Snow
sustained the character Felicia Hemans. She was
attired in a charming costume of black velvet
and cream lace, and sang the author's immortal
"The Captive Knight" to which Sir Walter Scott
never tired of listening. Mr. A. H. Snow ap-
peared as "Bret Harte" and gave a fine rendition
of "John Burns of Gettysburg." Mrs. Lillie
Snow so well qualified to represent the beautiful
and interesting Mrs. Cleveland, read one of that
lady's favorite peoms "No sects in heaven." Mrs.
Lillie Freeze, as Ella Wheeler Wilcox,gave "The
Disappointed" one of that lady's sweetest poems.
An address "The sunshine of life," delivered by
Prof. J. F. Moench of Ogden recalling the
pleasant reminiscences of over twenty years
friendship was a bright gem, and his gifted wife
favored the company with a tender little poem
suited to the occasion. A recitation "The new
Church Organ," by Mrs. Mattie Horne Tingey,
created ripples of laughter. Pres. Rudger Claw-


son paid some bright tributes to the noble char-
acter of Apostle Snow while relating experiences
shared together when confined in the Utah Peni-
tentiary for conscience sake.
	The very sweet singing of Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Jenson, Mrs. H. J. Snow, Ettie Madsen and the
excellent instrumental selections by Miss Amelia
Ghrael, Maye Taylor and Miss Aggie Campbell,
completed a highly intellectual entertainment,
after which an elegant repast suited to the sea-
son with a bountiful supply of strawberries, was
enjoyed with lively social conversation. A com-
plimentary serenade by the Brigham City band
was tendered the respected entertainers at their
separate places of abode, and altogether the new
social venture was a success to be long re-
membered with pleasure by those participating.
			L. T. F.


[Column 1]

