WOMEN VITALLY CONCERNED.
	Women who take the least concern in pub-
lic matters must feel that their claim for a
voice in the affairs of their country is
stronger now than ever. If there is one top-
ic which is emphatically a woman’s, it is
the training of the young, and Parliament
is now entering on one of the most momentu-
ous changes ever made in the great scheme
of primary education, and the womanhood
of the nation is powerless to say yea or
nay. The questions, also, which women are
too apt to regard as purely political, and
therefore outside their sphere, concern them
as vitally as they do men. For instance,
as Miss Tod, of Belfast—whose name has so
long been associated with every effort for
women’s enfranchisement—writes in a letter
to an Irish daily, the “Land Purchase Bill
touches the interest of woman farmers, of
whom there are nearly 60,000 in Ireland,
and of woman land owners great and small
who amount to about an eighth of the total
number. The Factory Bills affect the lives
of tens of thousands of women. The educa-
tional changes impending in Ireland are
watched with more anxiety than hope by
the friends of girls, who have barely es-
caped from the action of a ukase which
would have stopped the education of three-
fourths of the girls of Ireland at the level
degrading to them and fatal to the progress
of the community. The way out of the di-
fficulty is for the Government boldly to say
that they will no longer leave the welfare of
half the nation to the mere goodwill of in-
dividual members of Parliament, but admit
those holding the usual qualification to the
position of electors and the responsibility it
brings with it.”—Westminster Gazette (Eng.)


“The deputy postmaster general at London
is filling all vacancies in the male clerical staff
at the postoffice with women clerks. One
hundred and ten women have just passed the
requisite open examination called for by the
civil service regvlations, and will be employed
at first at salaries of £60, their duties being the
same as those performed by male clerks.”


