	BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake, convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City on the 10th of
June. Pres. Olivia Widerborg presiding.
Singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer by Brother Crawford singing, “Come
come ye saints;' roll called, minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved. Annie
Bowring acting as Sec., pro tem.
	Pres. Widerborg:“Let us chase all care away
while we are here, let us ask ourselves, what
have I learned since last conference? How do
we stand? The Lord is so anxious to bless us.
God help us to truly treasure up knowledge,
to love one another and fulfil the mission we
came here for.”
	Sister Hubbard, Pres. Willard: “I am happy
to meet with you; I need the spirit of the Lord
to be with me every moment of my life; we
come here to secure words of comfort, we
should have charity; I believe I know what
that means, let us strive to be one that we may
truly be the children of our Father in heaven.
	Sister Albertsen, Pres. Bear River City:
"We feel well in our ward, the Lord has blest
us much, I feel the Gospel is as sweet to me as
it has always been."
	Sister Booth, Pres. first ward Brigham City:
"It is our duty to meet often together; we
should encourage our young people to read
Church history instead of novels; let us com-
fort and sustain one another; and keep near
unto the Lord."
	Sister Perry, Three Mile Creek: "I can say
we are truly a hand of sisters; I hope it may
be our happy lot to be counted among the
faithful; our President, Jane Perry, is very
sick, which causes us to mourn."
	Sister Dewey, Pres. Deweyville: "My prayer
to our Heavenly Father is that I may have
wisdom to counsel and devise. I feel to say,
God bless the Relief Society; I miss Sister
Perry, she has been so faithful.


[Column 1]
	Sister Watkins, Pres. 4th Ward Brigham
City: “We should rise up to our duties; we
know the predictions of the prophets will be
fulfilled.”
	Sister C. Jensen, Pres. Mantua: “I think we
have a splendid set of sisters we have been
greatly blest of the Lord; I can bear testimony
that He has heard my prayers.”
	Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden: “I am
pleased to meet with you; we generally say,
we see the same ones to meeting always; I am
glad it is the same ones and a few more; we
become attached to each other; I have never
enjoyed myself better; what we have heard of
the sisters, I would have said; I feel when I
speak to you that you know just what I know;
we are approaching the time when things shall
try this people; what shall we do that we may
keep oil in our lamps? all are willing and
kind to donate and help the sick; the world
will do that, we should be charitable, forgive
each other’s faults; only when we have an
abundance of the Holy Spirit can we see our
own faults, therefore we need much. We need
to have a humble, childlike feeling; we should
be pleased with everybody; we want to feel
friendly; when I look upon an assembly I feel
thankful that so many sisters have had a desire
strong enough to go to meeting;” spoke of
her sick sister; many times our duty keeps us
with the sick. I like education, but we must
not dote upon it, but use it for the benefit of
others, not be haughty and proud; we had
Sister Eliza R. Snow to educate us in these
things; she felt so full of love for the sisters,so
full of charity and was so forgiving; she was a
true mother to all; may we overlook each
other’s little follies.”
	Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Counselor Mary
Wright.

	Afternoon session. Singing, “’Mid scenes.”
Prayer by Bishop Dewey. Singing “O God to
Thee, thanks for our blessings free.”
	Pres. O. Widerborg: “We have spent a
pleasant time, the Lord has poured out His
spirit. Sister Richards proposes that we turn
this meeting into a testimony meeting. I want
to say for our Primary, I attended their
officers’ meeting yesterday it would do every
mother good to see and understand the work
of these officers.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow: “Fifty-five years ago
I remember distinctly, the most blessed meet-
ings we had were those in the Temple in
Kirtland, as is here proposed. Father Smith
presided, took immense pains to have every
sister and brother say shortly what the Spirit
had to say; sisters would speak in tongues,
others interpreted, the Spirit of God was upon
us; these were glorious times, glorious seasons
I believe it depends a great deal upon the
sisters, if our fast meetings are well attended,
I believe things are coming that will try every
one; if persecution comes let us be prepared,
no matter what comes, so we have abundance
of the Spirit of God. We saw the great work
last night of the Primary; do all you can to
save your daughters to attend these organiza-
tions. God bless you and your officers,and all
who are working for the advancement of Zion.
Amen.
	Pres. Rudger Clawson: “I know we can not
spend our time or develop our talents better,
than in the interest of Zion. We should en-
courage our children as they grow up, we should
instil in them the principles of the Gospel, to pay
tithing from early childhood; let them feel they
are somebody, they are the hope of Israel; we
must educate them in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	Sister Richards: “we have not been speaking
much of obedience. I think it is impossible for
us to do any good, comfort or aid unless the
Lord should put it into our mouths; of course
[Column 2]
we are full of faults and failings, sometimes
say and do things that we should not, there is
so much expected of us, it is quite an under-
taking for mothers to do their duties at home
and attend meetings. I hope we may someday
be perfect, if we have heaven at all it must be a
home full of that kind feeling, love and
charity; we don’t want to do any harm, we
have been poor and needy like those we visit;
how much we have to be thankful for, if we do
not live like Latter-day Saints, it is a great
deal of comfort to try to live as one. We
should be greatly thankful that we are among
those few favored children of the Lord; all
He wants us to do, is, to try to serve and obey
Him;” spoke of the Primary: “mothers should
visit them and help these sisters, you are here
so am I, to do good; may God bless you,
Amen.”
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Pres. Honeyville:
Sisters Celia Nelson, Call and Harris bore
their testimony. Sister Reeves told how the
Lord had given her a strong testimony, that
she knew the principle of Celestial marriage
was true.
	Sister Robinson bore her testimony. Sister
Davids told how she was shown the man she
should marry in plural marriage although she
had never heard about that principle yet;
bore a faithful testimony that the principle
was true though we had not now the privi-
lege of living in it.
	Margaret Evans and Sister Nelson bore their
testimony.
	Hymn sung by Brother Booth, joined in by
the congregation, “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.” Pres. Widerborg. “We will
lose nothing if we prolong our meeting one
half hour.” Brother Crawford told how he
had received a testimony.
	Brother Gibbert and Sisters Phoebe W.
Snow, Perry, Gilbert, Mortensen and Rees
bore strong and faithful testimonies.
	Pres. Widerborg: “I feel to thank the
Priesthood and Sister Richards for visiting
us. Sister E. B. Wells sends her love to all
the sisters of Box Elder.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Adolph Madsen.
