JUDGE ZANE'S VIEWS.

	We sincerely hope and trust that this speech of
Judge Zane's will be read and widely circulated;
coming from a Judge holding the position that he
does and having such opportunities for knowing
the people of whom he speaks, his words should
have weight with the public.—EDITOR.
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Conven-
tion:
	Feeling an interest in the organization of

[Column 2]

national political parties in this Territory, I
stepped inside the door to see what you were do-
ing, not intending to make a speech. Since you
called on me, I will depart so far from the course
I have hitherto pursued as to say a few words be-
fore taking my seat. I will say, gentlemen, that
I am heartily in favor of this movement. [Great
applause.]
	Whenever I deem it to be my duty to speak
out on any subject, I do it. About nine months
ago when it was announced by the head of the
religious organization known as the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that he pro-
posed to obey the laws of his country, and ad-
vised all the members of that church to do like-
wise; and when the general conference repre-
senting the church, passed resolutions stating that
that advice was binding on its members, I chose
to believe it was in good faith. [Applause.] It
was just what I had been insisting that the or-
ganization ought to do, and after they did it, I do
not feel like turning around and saying that they
were not sincere. I have seen enough of them to
convince me that many of them, at least, had con-
victions—that they possessed consciences, by
which they were governed. I have seen them
pass man after man from this court-room to the
penitentiary rather than promise to obey the law.
And when the People's party, composed of mem-
bers of that church, through its committees an-
nounced that the People's party had disbanded,
and the announcement was acquiesced in, I
chose to take it in good faith.
	And when they stated that they proposed to
vote with one or the other of the two national
parties of the nation, that was right, and that the
public good so demanded, I chose to attribute
good motives to them.
	The People's party and the Liberal party of
this Territory have been organized with respect
to religion. It is a bad thing to have political
parties, in any country, organized with respect to
religious faith and worship. Since the Mormons
have abandoned polygamy and the People's party
has disbanded, there is nothing for a third party
to do but to pursue them on account of their re-
ligious beliefs. Their conduct, as the conduct
of the members of any church, may be defined as
crime and punished, if injurious to society. But
their beliefs cannot be so defined, prohibited and
punished. In abandoning polygamy and in dis-
solving the People's party the Mormons did right.
And they deserve credit for it, not censure and
abuse. In so doing, I give them credit for pat-
riotic and good motives. I went as far as the law
would allow in suppressing polygamy; but I dare
not invade the right of conscience. No earthly
power has a right to penetrate the human bosom
and eradicate from the soul of man its religious
beliefs. If that work can be done, it must be
performed by a power that is higher than any-
thing human.
	If any man in his worship does not act in-
jurious to society, by what authority may you or I
or all of us, stand between him and his God? If
we may pursue one man for his thoughts and be-
liefs, we may another. An individual may con-
trol his conduct, but he believes what he can.
The human intellect and conscience must be left
free. If we may suppress one church because of
the beliefs and the modes of worship of its mem-
bers, we may another, and whose religion will be
spared? The Constitution of the United States
declares that Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof. This is a cardinal principle
of our system of government, both national and
state. That being so, why organize political
parties with respect to religious beliefs or wor-
ship? Whenever government attempts to pro-
scribe men on account of their beliefs before they
have cropped out into human actions they at-
tempt that which belongs to a Power above us.


We must believe as we can—I may not believe
as my friend who sits here, but he may be as
honest as I am. We cannot believe just what we
want to, and to punish a man because he does not
believe just as we do is tyranny and oppression.
[Great applause.]
	In bygone ages despotic governments at-
tempted to invade the sacred domain of human
conscience, and in their attempts they have
reddened the path of the human race with the
blood of brave men. Political parties may be
organized with respect to actions and conduct,
but not merely for the purpose of suppressing
human thoughts and convictions.
	We cannot organize political parties with re-
spect to churches in this land—my friend says
there are one hundred and forty of them; I pre-
sume he has not got them all.—Governments
must be liberal enough to tolerate all religions.
We must not fetter the mind and conscience of
man—such proscription dwarfs the mind and be-
littles the conscience. I did not rise to make a
political speech—only to call attention to a prin-
ciple to which all parties that ought to exist
should conform. I call attention to the prin-
ciple because I think there is a disposition on the
part of some people to violate it.
	I believe that the Republican and Democratic
parties in this Territory should present their
principles to the people and invite them to unite
according to their convictions.


