	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Assembly Rooms 14th ward of this City,
Friday June 19th, 1891, Prest. M. I. Horne
presiding. Conference opened by singing,
‘‘We thank thee O, God for a Prophet,” etc.
	Prayer was offered by the Secretary Eli-
zabeth Howard. Singing,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation," etc.
	On the stand and platform with the Pre-
sident M. Isabella Horne, were Sisters E1-
mina S. Taylor, Elizabeth Webb, Elizabeth
Stevenson, Sarah M. Kimball, Maria W.
Wilcox and several other branch presi-
dents.
	Roll called 18 Presidents, 11 Counselors,
and 2 Secretaries responded. Minutes of the
last Conference read and accepted.
	Prest. Horne in her opening address wel-
comed those present and exhorted the sisters
to diligence and faithfulness, cautioned them
to beware of carelessness and indifference in
attending to their meetings and other duties,
that were for their spiritual welfare.
	First ward S. L. City reported by Ann
Young, Counselor; 2nd ward Ann McGre-
gor, Counselor; 3d Elizabeth Weiler, Presi-
dent; 5th Mary Buchanan, Counselor; 7th
Mary Alice Lambert, President; 9th E.
Webb, Counselor; 10th Charlotte Fawcett,
Teacher; 11th Agnes Child, Teacher; 13th
Louisa Spencer, Counselor; 14th M. W. Wil-
cox, President; 15th S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent; 16th Diana Reid, President; 17th Em-
ma Bull, Secretary; 18th Hannah M.
Wright, Counselor; 19th Ann E. Neal, Pre-

[Column 2]
sident; 22nd Mary Jeremy, Counselor; Sugar
House, Betsey Balwinkle, Secretary; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson, President;
South Cottonwood, Mary Rawlins, President;
Draper, Mary Smith, Counselor; Union, Mary
Ann Smart, Secretary; Mountain Dell, Mary
Jane Dixon, President; Sandy, Harriet Wil-
son, Counselor; South Jordan, Ann Halt,
President; West Jordan, Agnes Cutler Trea-
surer; North Jordan, Emily Beckstead, Coun-
selor; these branches were reported in
good working order and the members active
and desirous of performing every duty de-
volving upon them in caring for the poor, at-
tending to the sick and improving in spirit-
ual things.
	President Horne made a few suggestive
remarks and the meeting adjourned until 2
p.m. Singing;
	"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by E. S. Taylor. Afternoon
session opened with singing.
	"O, happy souls-who pray," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
Singing, 
	"O, ye mountains high," etc.
	The first speaker was Elvira Hirst, Presi-
dent, Pleasant Green, who reported that
branch, followed, by Jane Silcock, President,
Riverton; Mary A. Mousley, President, Bluff-
dale; Charlotte Neilson, President, Hunter. 
These sisters gave good reports concerning
their respective branches, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the store established
by the sisters; had hoped to have a report of
the six months at the next conference;
thought the sisters should take an interest in
this home institution and give it their sup-
port and patronage, and have faith in its suc-
cess; some of the greatest achievements had
very small beginnings. Referred to the Pri-
mary Association. The whispering of theSpirit
to Sister Amelia Rogers of Farmington had
been to organize the children, it had a small
commencement, but it had grown and in
creased and become a success. Felt we must
trust implicitly in the blessing of our Father
in heaven upon all of our efforts, and what-
ever we establish for mutual benefit.
	Lula Greene Richards, Treasurer 20th
Ward, represented that society as being in
good condition, though there had been a great
deal of sickness during the winter.
	Sarah M. Kimball, gave some encourage-
ment to the Secretaries, hoped they would
comprehend the blessings of the position and
become more fully developed through the
discipline of this important labor; gave some
suggestive hints upon dress, thought we should
make an improvement in this regard for the
benefit of our health and that we might have
more complete activity of every organ of the
human body.
	E. B. Wells spoke of intellectual and spirit-
ual development; urged the sisters to strive to
improve in speaking, and not be afraid of their
own voices, commended the diligence and the
liberality of the sisters, and referred to the
visit of the Delegates to Washington and the
good she thought would be derived therefrom
as a step, in advance.
	Helen M. Whitney expressed her grati-
tude in being able once more to attend
Conference, and spoke at some length upon
faith and prayer and the blessings to be
obtained thereby; also spoke of her great
desire to be of some use in the world, and
to endure all trials patiently even unto the
end; thought it necessary that we should be
united in order to obtain wisdom and pow-
er to rise above earthly things that we
should be humble and examine ourselves
and exercise charity.

[Column 3]
	The Sisters joined in singing a verse
from the hymn,
	"How firm a foundation."
	Elizabeth Howard felt we should be cau-
tious about evil speaking and liberal in our
feelings religiously and politically; in edu-
cating our children’s religion should be the
first consideration, the sisters should interest
themselves more in study politics.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few further remarks
upon politics; thought we should educate our-
selves to become educators; and should
stand upon a platform of equal rights, we
ought to understand the results and bearings
of the different laws before we can teach
these things. 
	Prest. Horne endorsed the remarks of Mrs.
Kimball and gave some specific instructions
to the Relief Society in reference to their
duties, and urged them to make an effort to
get younger women to co-operate with them
in visiting as teachers and in the active la-
bors of the Society. Spoke of the high esti-
mate the Prophet Joseph put upon the work
of the sisters, and that he organized it for a
strength and help and blessing to women.
She realized that women were coming on to a
higher platform, thought their intelligence
and ideas should be as great as those of men;
and be interested in everything that is for the
good of the community.
	Dr. Conger was accorded the privilege of
addressing the conference for about twenty
minutes, on the subject of health and how to
secure this inestimable blessing. His remarks
were good and his words well-chosen, and very
suggestive as well as highly interesting.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Doxology. Benediction by E.
Webb.
	E. HOWARD, Secretary.

