[Column 1]
Spirit of the Lord. It is a great responsi-
bility to take a position, and it is necessary
that we should support the officers selected.
	Sister Rebecca Standring rejoiced in a
knowledge of the work. Spoke of her
early experience, and being raised up from
a bed of affliction through the power of
God by revelation. The Lord had been
with her ever since and kept her in the
path of duty. The work will roll on, and
let us be faithful and seek the Lord by day
and by night and thus keep in the straight
and narrow way. Prayed that this confer-
ence might be one we shall never forget.
	Sister Emily S. Richards could testify
that she was proud to have been brought
up in the work of the Relief Society.
Would not part with her experience in the
society of Sister E. R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young and others of the elder
sisters. We grow in the work and we
grow to be helpmeets to our husbands and
if we do our duty the housework will not
be much, we make ourselves slaves to our
work. But we should strive to get intel-
ligence and the teachings of our sisters will
make us wise if we give heed to them.
Spoke of feeding the tramps and had never
been the poorer for it.
	President A. J. Evans had felt a very
peaceful influence since coming to meeting.
“We do not understand the good we do in
feeding tramps, and perhaps casting bread
upon the waters. Our missionaries have
often found that their protectors from mob
violence were tramps. This is God’s work
and our sons and daughters will carry it to
the ends of the earth. The mothers are
the last to give up their wayward sons, but
always hoped there would be a turn and the
wayward will become repentant and be
found in the path of duty finally.”
	Sisters Harriet Jacobs, Ellen D. Clarke
and Sister Anderson each made a few re-
marks, confirming what had been said by
the former speakers and bearing testimony
to the truth of the work.
	Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Benediction by President
A. J. Evans.
	Afternoon session convened at two p.
m., Counselor Annie C. Hindley presiding.
	Opened by singing, O, say what is
truth.” Prayer by Bishop Thorne. Singing,
“Come, listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	President Jane S. Richards was pleased
to see so good an attendance. Was sure
the sisters enjoyed their religion who
would come out in such hot weather.
Thought it was as necessary for one as
another to attend meeting, and the young
women should come and learn their duties,
for as long as there is a Bishop there will
be a Relief Society. Hoped the sisters
would sustain the president who would be
appointed today, and presented the name of
Sister Rebecca Standring.
	It was moved by Sister Harriet Jacobs
that Sister Rebecca Standring be sustained
as president of the Alpine Stake Relief
Society. Seconded by Sister Ellen D.
Clarke and carried unanimously.
	The counselors selected were Sisters

[Column 2]
Annie C. Hindley and Harriet Jacobs, also
Emma Featherstone, secretary.
	Sister Richards urged the sisters to be
one and pull together, and they would be
able to accomplish much good, also re-
minded them of the Woman’s Building and
advised them to economize and save the
means to help erect it.
	Sister Standring felt the weight of the
confidence placed in her by the sisters.
Wished to lift them up and unite them, all
the good that has been done has been
through love and unity. Hoped that every
branch of the society would have as much
confidence in her as Lehi has. Asked the
sisters for their faith, their works and their
confidence, by this means the work of God
will be accomplished.
	Sister Hindley desired to do her duty in
accepting the position as counselor to the
president of Alpine Stake Relief Society.
Said “If we minister comfort to our sisters
it will be through the Spirit of God. The
credit is due to our Heavenly Father for all
the good we can do.” Had visited all the
branches in the Stake and found them in
good order, and all doing the best they can.
	Sister Jacobs thought that what had been
done this afternoon was the right thing.
Felt well in the work and determined to do
her duty. The Lord hears our prayers and
though we may make sacrifices it will be
all right when we get through.
	President S. L. Chipman always felt
humble in standing before the people.
Spoke of his missionary experience and al-
ways felt to depend on the Lord. There is
only one thing that can satisfy the people
and that is the Spirit of God. It is the
same spirit that protects the young man on
his mission. Exhorted the counselors to
sustain the president, and do and perform
the work that she lays out.
	President A. J. Evans arose to bless the
sisters, said President “Standring was a
prophetess, he had heard her prophecies
and had seen them fulfilled. Said “God
bless the sisters who have been chosen to-
day, and God bless those who have come
to bless and instruct us.”
	Bishop Thorne made a few remarks.
Said it was a responsible position to be a
mother, but when you do your duty how
great your blessings are.
	Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Patriarch Hensen Walker
