gracefully kept time. Among the light
and gay they seemed as others. Stately
among the young and giddy, they moved
among the dancers, his arm clasped lightly
around her. It was the last time, yet no
one but themselves knew that this was a
meeting and a parting. The music almost
sobbed as it died away, and for a moment a
stillness fell around.
	Bending low over her hand, "Good bye,"
he said, and was gone.
	Sadness unutterable filled her heart as
she watched him until he was lost among
the throng. Thankful she was to God for
his kind words and thoughts, for his gentle
demeanor: In her eyes tears welled up for

[Column 2]
his wrecked life, and a prayer that a loving
wife might some day reign in his heart and
home, making the world bright and happy
for him.
	Years brought changes in her life. Far 
away from youthful scenes her lot had
been cast. Many children had come to her
home, but she had never wanted that
friend. No tidings of him had ever come
from the home far away. They were as
widely separated as tho' the sea rolled be-
tween them.
	Sorrows came to her, as they do to most
of us. Then came dark days, and the
promise so solemnly given clamored for ful-
fillment. But where was he? Still in the
land of the living? His fate was uncertain;
but wherever he might be, she is thankful
that they parted friends; friends they could
be forever.
	At last, when her hair was silvered with
the dust of time and grandchildren played
around her knee, a schoolmate of that long
ago came to see her, bringing news that he
was dead, only a year before.
	"Did he ever marry?" she asks.
	"No, but his sister came to him and
kept house for him. He left her all his
wealth."
	He had kept his word. The light and 
music of the ballroom rushes before her.
The odor of flowers and waving of fans and
the words, "I shall never marry, I loved
once and it was forever," ring out as
though they were just spoken.
	"You know the reason why," the friend
continued. The years roll back like a
scroll, as a panorama the scenes are por-
trayed. Again he clasps her hand as he
says, "Good bye, remember," when he 
passed out of her life forever.

	The loss, the cross, the pain, the tear,
		Gone with the Springtime's breath;
	Naught but peace can enter here,
		The vale of silent Death.
	'Tis not in vain we suffer so,
		The stream is purified;
	The torrents smoothly glide below,
		That lash the moutain side.
	
	And strength is born in throes of pain,
		Eyes clearly see that weep;
	The heart bowed down will rise again,
		We plant before we reap.
	
	So God's decrees, one endless round,
		We'll find are wise and best;
	No stitches dropped, not thread unwound,
		The woof withstands the test. 
