[column 1]
train passed, the inhabitants had been
augmented by thousands from the sur-
rounding country. The country schools
along the way, let out, and the children the
President loved so well in life were there to
see his dead body pass. The train slowed
down at every station to allow the people
lined up on either side to get a better
view of the flag-covered casket. The popu-
lation of the little towns along the way,
like Holland, Arcade, Machiaus Junction,
Franklinville and Hinsdale had tripled and
quadrupled. The towns seemed suddenly
to grow into cities. As the train slowed
up, the mourners behind the curtained
windows of the train could hear the tolling
of the bells.
	Olean was reached at 10:29 o’clock.
There were three thousand people at the
Pennsylvania station as the train came to a
stop.

	The body of President McKinley lay in
state at the White House in the famous
East room, the Guard of Honor who
watched by the dead, members of the Loyal
Legion and the G. A. R., silently chang-
ing every two hours. At the head of the
casket an artillery man and sailor; at the
foot a cavalryman and a marine.
	The following day funeral services were
held at the Capitol Building. The casket
was borne into the Rotunda to the strains of
“Lead Kindly Light,” while every one
stood in reverence. The Invocation was
given by Dr. Henry R. Naylor, of the
Washington M. E. Church, then the choir
sang “Sometime We’ll Understand.”
When the echoes of the hymn died away,
Bishop Edward Andrews, of the M. E.
Church, who had come from Ohio to say 
the last words over his life-long friend and
parishioner, made a most eloquent and
feeling address in a sympathetic voice,
thrilling with emotion. It was a magni-
ficent tribute to the great statesman and
chief magistrate of the nation. The address
occupied fifteen minutes, when everyone in
the vast Rotunda rose and hundreds of
voices joined with the choir in singing,
“Nearer My God to Thee.” In the midst
of the singing Admiral Robley D. Evans
silently advanced and placed a blue floral
cross at the foot of the casket. Dr. W. H.
Chapman, of the Metropolitan Church, pro-
nounced the benediction. The lid of the
casket was removed from the face and the
people were allowed to view the President;
coming in at the east door and going out at
the west. No one was allowed more than
a hurried glance, they passed on both sides
of the casket.
	The President’s remains were afterwards
taken by train to his old home in Canton,
Ohio. The funeral cortege was honored
in every city and town upon the way, it is
estimated that from the time the funeral
train entered Pittsburg until it crossed the
Alleghany line, the crowd was not less
than 250,000 people. Salutes were fired
from Mount Washington and the church
bells tolled. But the climax of the great
demonstration was when the train reached
Canton. The half-masted flags were
bordered heavily with black and a big
white streamer, ten feet wide, lettered in
black, “We Mourn Our Nation’s Dead,”
hung across the main street. The church
bells were tolling. Although the clouds
had been lowering all day, the bright sun-
shine greeted the entry into Canton, the
people literally overflowed the streets. The

[column 2]
President’s body was first taken to the
court house and viewed by the masses of
the people—but afterwards brought to his
own home and deposited in his library.
	It is stated there were tons and tons of
flowers; and the collection was probably
the most beautiful ever seen in the United
States, from the four quarters of the earth
came the directions to adorn the bier of
President McKinley with flowers whose
fragrance might be symbolical of the
sweetness and purity of his life. These
tributes were from the monarchs of Europe,
rulers of South America, Governors of
British Colonies in Australia and Canada,
and the Emperor of Japan, and large num-
bers of flowers in elaborate designs from
organizations, fraternal, commercial and
political. It is said the tributes from for-
eign lands were buried beneath the floral
offerings of his owu countrymen.
	The services in the Church at Canton
vere very simple. Opened with an organ
prelude, Beethoven’s Funeral March, then
a quartette of ladies sang, “The Beautiful
sle of Somewhere.” The Hon. O. B.
Milligan delivered the invocation, the 90th
Psalm was read, and from the 15th chapter
of Corinthians, between the 46th and 58th
verses. The President’s favorite hymn,
“Lead Kindly Light,” was sung by two
male and two female voices, and Dr. C. E.
Manchester, of the M. E. Church, made
the address, which was exceedingly elo-
quent, abounding with poetic senti-
ment, expressive of the loss the peo-
ple of the country had sustained in
the death of one so noble. The speaker
alluded to his last visit to Canton, and his
last words as he left them. A short prayer
was offered by Bishop I. W. Joyce and the
hymn, “Nearer, My God, to Thee,” was
sung by the entire congregation, standing.
Monsiegneur T. P. Thorne pronounced
the benediction and the casket was borne
from the Church to the funeral car, and
the procession marched to the cemetery.

	“The church-yard where his children rest,
	The quiet spot that suits him best,
	There shall his grave be made,
	And there his bones be laid.
	And there his countrymen shall come
	With memory proud, with pity dumb,
	And strangers far and near
	For many and many a year,
	For many a year and many an age,
	While history on her ample page
	The virtues shall enroll
	Of that paternal soul.”


