[Column 1]
A DAY OF PRAYER AND MOURNING.
GOVERNOR WELLS’ PROCLAMATION.
	In answer to an inquiry as to the more
fitting day for the people of Utah to ob-
serve as memorial day, Governor Wells re-
ceived the following word from the late
President’s secretary, George B. Cortelyou:
	Buffalo, N. Y., September 15, 1901:—
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Thursday, Sep-
tember 19th, is the day set for funeral ser-
vices at Canton, O.; that would be proper
day to set apart for mourning and prayer.
GEORGE B. CARTELYOU.
	Governor Wells thereupon issued the fol-
lowing proclamation:
	Whereas in His infinite wisdom it has
pleased the Almighty to permit to be re-
moved from this life the great and good

[Column 2]
head of this nation, William McKinley,
late President of the United States, who
died at the city of Buffalo, in the State of
New York, on the 14th day of September,
1901, of mortal wounds inflicted upon him
by an assassin; and
	“Whereas, it is fitting that the people of
Utah, sharing with the people of the
Union and of the world the universal grief
upon a misfortune so unexpected and so
overwhelming, should be afforded an op-
portunity to manifest their veneration and
love for the illustrious dead, their detesta-
tion of the hideous crime that has laid him
low, their sympathy for his stricken widow,
the crushing sorrow that fills their hearts
in contemplation of a national calamity so
appalling and the gratitude that the wis-
dom of the fathers, foreseeing such dread-
ful possibilities, provided that the govern-
ment should not be destroyed because of
the uncertainty of human life; and
	“Whereas, the President of the United
States, Theodore Roosevelt, has appointed
Thursday, the 19th day of September, the
day upon which the remains of our dead
President will be consigned to their final
resting place at Canton, O., to be observed
throughout the United States as a day for
holding memorial services;
	Now, therefore, in obedience to sacred
duty, in deference to the desires of the peo-
ple and in conformity with the proclama-
tion of the President, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the state of Utah, by virtue
of the authority vested in me by the laws
of this state, do hereby proclaim Thurs-
day, the 19th day of September, 1901, to
be a day of humiliation, of fast, of mourn-
ing and of prayer, to be observed as a legal
holiday in this state, and I earnestly recom-
mend that on that day all labor be sus-
pended and all places of business be closed,
and that the people assemble in their places
of worship and render such tributes of de-
votion and reverence to the will of the
Father, and such marks of respect to the
memory and character of our late devoted
President as they may deem appropriate to
the occasion,
In testimony whereof I have here-
(Seal) unto set my band and caused the
great seal of the state of Utah to
be hereunto affixed.
“Done at Salt Lake City this 16th
day of September, 1901, of the in-
dependence of the United States,
the 126th, and the sixth year of
the state of Utah.
“By the Governor.
HEBER M. WELLS
J. T. HAMMOND,
Secretary of State.”


