[Column 1]
IMPRESSIVE FUNERAL SERVICES.
	The funeral services of our beloved
Mother in Israel and General President of
the Relief Society, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
in this city, Sabbath morning, September
1, at 10 a. m.
	The hall was crowded to its utmost ca-
pacity, the white draping and beautiful
flowers were fitting emblems of a pure life,
abounding with love and sympathy as
sweet as the lilies and roses, tokens of
friendship and affection from those who
prized her loving and sweet companionship
in life. The Temple workers gave a de-
sign of the Temple in purple and white
asters, very striking; the General Board of
the Relief Society, a magnificent “Gates
Ajar;” the Salt Lake Board, R. S., an ele-
gant crown in white roses; Weber Stake R.
S., an unique harp of choice flowers,
artistically arranged; the Y. L. M. I. A., a
pillow; the Primary Association, a harp of
asters and roses; the children of Sister Zina,
a sheaf of wheat and a sickle of roses with
a semicircle bearing the word “MOTHER,”
the whole surmounted with a beautiful
crown; the Utah Silk Commision, of which
she was president, a wreath of purple asters
and white roses, tied with Utah silk in
white. There were many other floral gifts,
testimonies of the love and esteem in which
Aunt Zina was held.
	On the stand were the venerable Presi-
dent, Lorenzo Snow, and many of the
Church authorities, also the officers of the
General Board of the Relief Society.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
over the services which were opened by the
Tabernacle choir singing “When first the
glorious light of truth,” a favorite hymn of
Aunt Zina’s.
	The opening prayer was offered by
Apostle Anthon H. Lund, and the services
were continued with the solo, “Awake my
Soul,” sung by Prof. H. S. Goddard.
	The first speaker was President Snow,
who prefaced his address by saying that
many would call this a solemn occasion,
but he thought that when a man or woman
goes faithfully through life and have per-
formed their mission properly, there is no
occasion to mourn. Exaltation follows
their course. President Snow said that he
first met Aunt Zina 65 years ago when she
was 15 years of age. Since that time he
had been intimately acquainted with her,
and he did not know of a woman whose
duties in life were performed more effec-
tually than hers. He said that in viewing

[Column 2]
her past life he was filled with pride and
thanksgiving. We cannot help but shed
tears, but how happy is the contemplation
that she has passed out of life and gone to
her exaltation. The relatives of the de-
ceased were admonished to follow in her
steps, to make as few mistakes as she made
and their glory would be sure. The
Apostle John was bidden to write, “Blessed
are those who die in the Lord,” for their
works will live after them. It was so with
Aunt Zina, her works will live after her.
“We ought to feel in our hearts,” said
President Snow, “that God is our Father,
and that while we make mistakes and are
weak yet if we live as nearly perfect as we
can all will be well with us. This sister
has lived in this way. When she was sud-
denly stricken with the blow that took her
consciousness away, she was prepared to
go and meet her Maker. Now, I say to
you all, brothers and sisters, do likewise.”
	The next speaker was Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, first counselor to Aunt Zina, as
president of the Relief Society. She said
she could endorse every word that Presi-
dent Snow had said of her beloved sister.
She had known Aunt Zina between fifty
and sixty years and in her there was no
variation. The kingdom of God was al-
ways first with her. Mrs. Richards bore a
strong testimony to the divinity of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society. “Sister Zina,” she
continued, “has often gone to the bedside
of the sick when she herself was feeling ill,
and she has returned feeling strong for
having done her duty. Aunt Zina was an
example to all of us, and if I can go where
she and Sister Eliza R. Snow are, I will
feel repaid for having lived.”
	Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was the next
speaker. She met Aunt Zina in 1840, at a
meeting in which the power of God was
manifest. The two friends had been like
sisters ever since. She did not think it
would be many years before she would
meet Aunt Zina again, and the others who
had gone before her. She asked those
present to continue the labor of love. To
visit the sick and afflicted and comfort
those who are cast down.
	The succeeding speaker was Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells. She had said that she could
not speak on this occasson, for she was
naturally emotional, and she loved Aunt
Zina greatly. She rejoiced over the glori-
ous life of the departed, who was associated
now with such women as “Mother” Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Emily D. Young, Marin-
da Hyde a d others who had already passed
away. Sister Wells alluded to the gift of
tongues and interpretation that Sister Zina
had enjoyed in such perfection and the
songs of Zion so sweetly rendered by
“Mother” Whitney. “I mourn for Sister
Zina and I cannot help it. No woman was
ever greater beloved than Sister Zina. I think
of all the beautiful attributes that adorn
women on earth, she had the most heaven-
ly, humility. She had another of the
great virtues, obedience. She was obe-
dient to the authorities of the Church and
obedient to her own conscience. And she
had many other great and noble virtues.”
	Elder Seymour B. Young was the next
speaker. He began by saying that Aunt
Zina returned from Canada last Sunday in
a comatose condition. On Tuesday morn-
ing he asked her if she knew him and she
opened her eyes and said yes. That was
the only time that she seemed to recognize

[Column 3]
any one. “She was indeed a noble
woman,” said the speaker. “You all
know how tender her heart was. I think
she was made of the stuff of which martyrs
are made. She has proven often that she
would lay down her life for the mainten-
ance of truth. She was a very cleanly
woman. Clean in language, thought and
action.” Elder Young went on to tell of
the work that Aunt Zina had performed; of
the hardships and sacrifices she endured
and the devotion she showed to the sick and
the poor. She was a woman who loved
the truth, and loved her fellow man. It
did not make so much difference what
creed one possessed if he were in need he
could easily appeal to the heart of Aunt
Zina. She was not only a good and tender-
hearted mother, but she took other chil-
dren to her heart and reared them like her
own, and marked out the path for them to
walk in. She was a woman of deep humil-
ity and she always did all she could, al-
though doubting her own ability to do
much. Aunt Zina’s name and character
will live after her and will endure forever.”
	Elder John Nicholson was the next
speaker, and he began by saying that he
had listened with pleasure and interest to
all that had been said of Aunt Zina. “In
all my experience and observation,” said
he, “I never heard a more glowing and
glorious tribute paid to any one that had
passed from this sphere to the beyond, than
has been paid to Aunt Zina, and I can say
that it is all the truth. This indicates to
me how close a son or daughter can ap-
proach to the carrying out of that admoni-
tion, ‘be ye perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect.’ I have
never heard of any failing that she pos-
sessed. If she had any, I have failed in
getting the information. Those who over-
come the most shall receive the most
glorious inheritance that can be given to
mortal man, and that is what Aunt Zina
has done and she has gone to her reward.
Elder Nicholson paid a most eloquent tri-
bute to the character of Aunt Zina, which
he said perhaps shone with greatest luster
within the circle of her own family. It
was attested in the fact that the love of her
foster children had for her was in no de-
gree less than that of her own children.”
This, thought the speaker, spoke volumes
for her impartiality, and her great sense of
justice.
	Miss Arvilla Clark sang “Gently, Lord,
Oh Gently Lead us,” a beautiful song
rendered in exquisite style.
	Apostle A. H. Lund spoke next. He
said that many glorious things had been
said of the departed, but he thought she
merited them all. Aunt Zina was more
than a friend. She has been “Aunt Zina”
to all Israel. “What a gentle, pure
woman she was,” said the speaker. “All
her life from the time she was a young
woman had been spent in the service of the
Lord. She was a woman in whom the
spiritual nature was well developed, al-
though she was very practical. She loved
her neighbor; loved to do good to others.
She was a blessing wherever she traveled.
What a noble character she had. When
the sons and daughters of God come up to
receive their reward, Aunt Zina will be one
of that happy throng on the right hand of
God, to whom it will be said, “I was sick
and in prison and ye visited me.” Aunt
Zina has laid up riches that are unfading. I
believe that every unselfish act we per-


form will be counted as a treasure for us
on the other side, and I believe that Sister
Zina has laid up many, many treasures of
this kind.”
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke
next, saying that he had known
Aunt Zina for fifty years. If ever a
woman lived inclined to do her Heavenly
Father’s will rather than her own, it was
Aunt Zina. The speaker went on to pay
tribute to the life and character of the de-
parted, and expressed the hope that her
children and children’s children shall live
worthy to go where she is.
	The next speaker was Elder C. W. Pen-
rose, who began by quoting the words of
the Bible, “Be ye also ready.” Aunt Zina
was always ready when called upon to at-
tend the duties of her office in ministering
unto sick and fallen humanity. She was
also ready when the time came, to go and
meet her Maker. The last the speaker saw
of Aunt Zina was in Ogden last Sunday,
but he expected to see her again when she
is clothed upon by the glory of God. He
had known her for forty years, and it
seemed to him that her life was a benedic-
tion. In every respect she was a saint of
God. She was indeed a noble and blessed
woman and her name will be heard among
her people always. If we are faithful and
true, concluded the speaker, we will join
her and all the noble ones who have gone
before, and receive the glorious crown that
is in waiting for all the good and the faith-
ful.
	The choir sang “O, my Father,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Bishop
W. B. Preston.
	While the casket was borne slowly out
of the building, followed by the family of
the deceased, the audience remained seated.
The long funeral cortege was formed on
South Temple, making a line of vehicles
reaching from the Bee Hive House to West
Temple Street. The interment was made
in the City cemetery, the grave being dedi-
cated by Apostle Lund. A quartette from
the Tabernacle choir sang "Nearer, My
God, to Thee,” and after the coffin was
covered, the mourners returned to the city.
	Not the least touching and beautiful
feature of the funeral was the fact that the
pallbearers were sons of the late President
Young, who had loved Aunt Zina as a
mother. They were Hyrum S., Oscar B.,
Don Carlos, Morris, Lorenzo D. and
Alonzo Young.


