		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, convened in
the Ovid meeting house, July 27, 1901, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were
President J. S. Lindsay, Counselor L. M.
Hart and Mary Bagley; Sisters M. I.
Horne and E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, and a number
of the presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society in Bear Lake, J. P.
Lindsay presiding.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Prayer, Elder John Bagley. Sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Roll called, minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Lindsay expressed her gratifi-
cation for the privilege of meeting together
in so pleasant a room, but felt somewhat
disappointed at the small attendance.
	A number of the branches were reported
by the presidents.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the conference.
Spoke at some length on the magnanimity
of the Relief Society work. Much more
would have been accomplished had all
been as interested as some have been. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
in the Church should have her name en-
rolled in the Relief Society. We may gain
much valuable experience, and we are told
we learn nothing truly but that which we
learn by experience. The mission of the
teachers of the Relief Society is a very im-
portant one. They should seek God for
His Spirit, for the spirit of discernment
that they may say that which is most

[column 2]
needed in each home. Spoke further in an
interesting way on many important sub-
jects.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Elder E. M. Allred.
	Afternoon session, President Lindsay
presiding. Hymn, “High on the moun-
tain top appearing.” Prayer by Bishop
Philemon Lindsay. Hymn, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	A number more verbal reports were
given.
	President Lindsay expressed the pleasure
she felt in having with us the sisters from
Salt Lake City. The instructions received
from Sister Horne in her previous visits to
our conferences had been a great benefit to
her in her labors.
	Sister M. I. Horne said she noticed a
marked improvement in Ovid since her
visit a few years since. The new meeting
house erected, although not elaborate, is
neat and comfortable. These organizations
were effected that woman may prepare her-
self as well as man for the other life. That
we may learn the plan of salvation, as well
as to look after the poor and sick.
	We are more greatly blessed than all
other dispensations. We have no history
of the Father and Son appearing to any
other prophet. The great work that the
Prophet Joseph was to perform was told
hlm by the Savior. We have the benefit
of direct revelation recorded in the Doctrine
and Covenants. These instructions were
given for our guidance. We are comfort-
ably settled in our peaceful homes and
should not forget our obligations. Some
are becoming careless about storing grain.
Our records as well as those of the breth-
ren should be properly kept. Urged the
sisters to make an effort to assist in erecting
the Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City.
Hoped the sisters would patronize the EX-
PONENT. It is very essential for our girls
to be educated, for fhey are to bear the
souls of men. Asked the blessings of God
upon all.
	Sister Stevenson admonished the sisters
to be good housekeepers, a house of order
is a fit place for the Spirit of God. It is a
part of our religion to learn to keep a home
in order. Poverty is no disgrace, although
very inconvenient, but we can, even in the
midst of this have orderly homes, have our
meals at regular hours, retire early and
rise early that we may be blessed with wis-
dow. Spoke very interestingly of an inter-
view she had with one of the Book of Mor-
mon witnesses.
	President Lindsay had rejoiced greatly in
listening to the words of counsel given.
Hoped that all would awaken to a sense of
their duty, and that the young sisters would
attend the Relief Society meetings. The
time is short for us to labor, it rests with us
whether we are true to our religion.
	Hymn. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction, Elder
E. M. Allred.
	The Relief Society conference again con-
vened on Sunday at 2 p. m. After the
usual opening exercises an address by
President Lorenzo Snow, given at Saltair,
July 9, to the ladies, officers and members
of the Relief Society, was read by Counsel-
or L. M. Hart.
	President M. I. Horne said it is very
gratifying to see the good attendance. De-
sired to say that which would be most bene-
ficial to all. The Lord knew the desire
His daughters had to serve him and has

[column 3]
granted us the privilege of being organized.
Those who are faithful members of the
society are in advance of those who are not 
thus identified. We are in the chambers of 
the mountains, God has brought us. There
are beautiful cities, fields and gardens,
where a short time since it was a wild
desert place; and yet some of us have not
time to attend to our duties, but are using 
too much time in seeking the wealth of the
world. Spoke on the necessity of prayer, 
keeping the Sabbath day holy and obeying 
the law of tithing.
	Sister Stevenson felt it no small task to
address a congregation of Latter-day Saints. 
Women should be educated Husbands
encourage your wives to attend our confer- 
ences, even if you have a cold lunch on that 
day. How can your wives be companion-
able for you, if they have no opportunities
for obtaining knowledge, and where is a
better place than at our Relief Society 
meetings. Spoke on woman’s noble mis-
sion and the great good she can accomplish 
if guided by the Holy Spirit. 
	Counselor Mary Bagley knew the only
way to future greatness is to be obedient to 
the counsels given by those who are direc-
ted by the Spirit of God. Esteemed it a
great privilege to be a member of the Relief
Society, Testified that the instructions
given to us during our conference had been
words of inspiration.
	Sister M. I Horne spoke a short time on 
the rights and privileges of the sisters as 
given us by the Prophet Joseph when 
we were first organized, and said the rights
have not always been properly understood
by the brethren.
	President Wm. Budge made a few clos- 
ing remarks, and it was then moved and 
seconded that Sister Louisa Fuller be sus-
tained as corresponding secretary of the  
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake.
	The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Clark.
