[Vol10 | October 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December - Lesson IV - Social Service - Th]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) THE HOME AND ITS SPIRITUAL OBLIGATION "Wherefore, verily I say unto you, that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of man, neither Adam, your father, whom I created." Doc. & Cov., Sec. 29:34, The above revelation indicates that the Lord is concerned with man's spiritual welfare and his salvation, not so much with "material and temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." He views the problems of the home and the family in the light of the eternal destiny of man. When the Lord commands his servant to "set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always," least, "they should be removed out of their places,? he was concerned not merely in overcoming the present strife, and making temporary adjustment, but in their eternal welfare and happiness. The family relationship is sacred for it is eternal. And God's commandments concerning its welfare are eternal. In fact all the revelation concerning temporal affairs as viewed in their religious significance, are necessary to the salvation of man. Spirituality the Great Aim The lessons which have preceded and which have dealt with the ordinary problems of home life are spiritual insofar as they function in preparing the sons and daughters of God, physically, mentally and socially to meet the great spiritual and moral demands of life. Marriage implies more than mere physical comfort. Unless it inspires a higher and better life, it is not all that God intended it should be. Such interests as book learning, music and dramatics, have their place, but they must not be permitted to push to one side the deeper spiritual and sympathetic elements. It is the duty of the home to develop the tender and refined emotions and spiritual feelings. If faith in God and love of humanity does not develop in the home they will likely not develop anywhere. "Homes are wrecked," says Cope, "because families refuse to take home-living in religious terms, in social terms of sacrifice and service. In such homes, organized and conducted to satisfy personal desires rather than to meet social responsibilities, these desires become ends rather than agencies and opportunities. "They who marry for lust are divorced for further lust. Selfishness, even in its form of self-preservation, is an unstable foundation for a home."'?Cope: Religious Education in the Family, pp. 1-2. What Spiriutality Implies Spirituality must first show itself in the home. Unless the spirit of worship, of love, of faith, of prayer is found in the family circle, it is likely not to be found elsewhere. It is common knowledge that the criminals and moral delinquents of all kinds are the products of homes that do not have a proper spiritual 
 atmosphere. Love between husband and wife, parents and children, mutual helpfulness, kindness and sympathy constitute essential elements in the spiritual atmosphere of the home. Spirituality Extends Beyond the Home The spiritual duty of the family extends beyond its own circle. As members of the Church, we have a message to the world. Every member of the Church is a teacher and preacher of righteousness. It is a wholesome attitude of mind for the younger members of the family to feel that some day the virtues, the standards, the principles of faith which the home inspires will be carried by them out into the world to bless the lives of humanity everywhere. It is proper for every father and mother, every son and daughter of Zion, to look forward to the time when he or she-can play a more active part in saving human souls. Whether the service is in the missionary field or in the local organizations of the Church makes little difference. All who work in the cause of truth and of virtue, all who remove ignorance, sin, and suffering are in God's work, their mission is spiritual. QUESTIONS 1. What did the Lord mean when he said that all his laws are spiritual? 2. Show that the highest aims of life are spiritual. 3. Do all the practical problems of family life have spiritual significance? Explain fully? 4. Explain why God considers the important relations of life as more than merely temporary? ~ 5. What does Cope say regarding the importance of the family being based upon a religious foundation? I 6. Show that unless spirituality is developed in the home it likely will not develop elsewhere. 7. Is faithful attendance to church a sign of spirituality? What else may be considered as an indication of spirituality? 8. Why is it important for every member of the family to feel that he is expected some day to teach and preach the Gospel? 9. What can a woman with a family of little children do to advance truth and righteousness outside of her own home?