[Vol10 | October 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December - Lesson III - Literature - Ralph]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) RALPH WALDO EMERSON Ralph Waldo Emerson defies analysis but the effects of his work seem permanent. It has never been an easy thing to tell why one individual entrances and another fails to impress. We only know that such a thing occurs just as we know that the sun shines and gives off heat. Ralph Waldo Emerson was born into a world where spirituality was failing in its essence. There was much of the letter and little of the spirit. The youths of New England were struggling to break the bonds of the past, for they really considered themselves in bondage. They were spiritually starved when Emerson appeared as the phyand felt, and feeding them with that which nourished the spiritual nature.: Mr. Pancoast pays him this tribute, that "he was the most represenita'ive person of the new movement called Transcendentalism. He was the most influential in shaping its form and character. To say the best what men all around one are laboring more or less ineffectually to define and put into words, is to become a prophet in one's ewn country. Emerson did this, and perhaps this personal power to stimulate and inspire and make the vague more tangible and effective, was the greatest element of his work, In a lecture delivered at the last session of the National Education Association, at San Francisco, David Starr Jordan refers RALPH WALDO EMERSON ' sician of their souls, explaining to them what they thought 
 to the great teacher by saying, "A great teacher always leaves a great mark on every student with whom he comes into real contact," Judged by this rule, Ralph Waldo Emerson was one of the greatest teachers of which we have record. Hawthorne said, "that his mind acted upon other minds of a certain constitution with a wonderful magnetism and drew many men upon long pilgrimages to speak to him face to face." Lowell, who belonged to a somewhat later generation, says, "He brought us life, and was to generous youth the sound of the trumpet that the young soul longs for." "The cause of this power," says Pancoast, 'lay in the fact that Emerson found the right word for ideas and enthusiasms which the men about him were laboring to put in tangible form. He stood and spoke for the peculiar temperament and for the intellectual traditions of New England as modified and enlarged by the new spirit of his age." Another of his contemporaries said that to pass him in the woods on a summer morning was like the passing of an angel. One of the greatest tributes ever paid to Emerson was at the centenary of his birth. People struggled then, as they have always struggled, to explain what it was about him that put him above and beyond others, and in an attempt to do this thing one of the speakers said, "When a young man I went to a lecture and there I listened to a man who had seen Mars. I was intensely enthusiastic over the fact that a man had seen Mars, but later this thing paled into insignificance, for when I saw and heard Ralph Waldo Emerson I knew that I had seen and heard a man who had communed with Ged." The idea was prevalent among his admirers that he was very close, always, to the Divine Source. To be sure the practical minded were a trifle suspicious of him, and Dickens tells us that when he was in America he was assured, "that whatever was intelligible would certainly be transcendental," and even Lowell, who was a very good mixture of the practical and idealistic, poked some fun at the transcendentalists, stating, "that not a few impecunious zealots adjured the use of money, unless earned by other people, professing to live on the internal revenues of the spirit. Communities were established everywhere where everything was to be common but common sense." Those who admired Emerson would regard these criticisms as either designed to create fun, or as being from those who having eyes see net or having ears hear not, so far as Emerson was concerned. Our author came of a very distinct line. He could count among his ancestors eight ministers, both on his father's and on his mother's side. Undoubtedly as a young man he expected to hold up the family traditions in this respect, but he could not accept the doctrine taught by his church in relaticn to the sacra- ment, consequently he made a frank statement to his congregation in relation to his belief and resigned his position. Emerson was born in Boston, in 1803, very close to the place where Benjamin Franklin was born. His life was the life of a thinker, a lecturer and a scholar. It ran along rather smeothly and was uneventful except in the intellectual realm. Emerson wrote both essays and poetry, giving to all he wrote an indefinable charm that can be felt and sensed but which does not admit of description. The thing that makes his poetry valuable is the thing that has made his essays valuable?flashes of light and wisdom couched in epigrammatic language, coupled always with an appeal for the dominance of the over-soul, which merely means the soul. That which made Emerson mighty was his constant struggle to reveal the spiritual that he saw in nature and in life. One thing he was reasonably successful in doing was to refute the charge of gross materialism that has been hurled at the American ever since the beginning. A Frenchman said of him, 'In this North America, which is pictured to us as so naterialistic, I find the most ideal writer of cur times." Emerson "longed constantly for a better world and a grander generation' ? "Men of mold, Well embodied, Well ensouled." He had faith in the power within men that lifts them upwards. "In city or in solitude, Step by step, lifts bad te good, Without halting, without rest, - Lifting better up to best." Emerson had unwavering faith in the life beyond, and in anticipation of death, he wrote: "When frail Nature can no more, Then the Spirit strikes the hour; My servant death, with solving rite, Pours finite into infinite." These excerpts from Emerson's poems will give us an idea of his manner of writing. It was he whe. Preached the gospel of "plain living and high thinking. He also argued for ambition, suggesting that we hitch our wagon to a Star.: Emerson was not inclined to argue. He felt that the truths he voiced were self-evident. Constantly people were asking him to prove his statements, and just as frequently he replied, "Prove that which is self-evident! What use is there to prove that the sun shines, that the night is dark, etc.? These things are apparent to all." And se it was with the spiritual truths that were so clear to Emerson. 'They were apparent to him and to many others who listened to him, yet it is also fair to say that there were people who 
 could not always recognize that the things he said were self-evident. Emerson deeply loved nature and his essay on Nature is full of passages that the lover of nature revels in. Emerson, of course, had his short-comings as a writer. Asa poet he was not musical, consequently it is an easy matter to come across bad lines in his verse. There is an unevenness in all of his writings but it is impossible for one who ascended the heights to maintain so loftly a position always, even though that position be attained by means of the spirit. In all of Emerson's activities, whether he contributed as teacher, lecturer, poet or essayist, it is intellectual brilliancy and scintillation of light thatt marks his course. He was a veritable comet who dragged behind him a path of light, often times in the midst of much darkness. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give the date of Emerson's birth and the date of his death. 2. How old was Emersen when he died? 3. In what year was the centenary spoken of in the lesson held? 4. Have somebody read the "Concord Hymn" to the class and tell the occasion for the writing of the hymn. 5. What does Emerson mean when he speaks of "embattled farmers'?; 6. What does he mean when he speaks of a "shot heard reund the world"? 7. Have the poem "Rhodora" read to the class. What does Emerson mean when he says, "Beauty is its own excuse for being'? 8. Select a passage from Emerson's Essay on Nature that impressed you as being especially beautiful, and read it to the class. 9. Discuss the passage read, if time will permit.