Music. 
By Brigham Cecil Gates. 

Ezra in enumerating the official personages whom he brought to Jerusalem from the Babylonish captivity to take part in the reopening of the rebuilt temple names 200 singing men and singing women (II Samuel 6:5; 19:35; Ezra 2:65; Nehemiah 7:67). The daily service in the temple was full of picturesque beauty. Music was a constant accompaniment to the various services. The musicians were sometimes divided into two or more separate choirs which sang a general chorus in turn and chanted responses from the Psalms. The structure of the Hebrew Psalms is eminently adapted to this mode of singing, the parallel framework of their poetry embodies the very spirit of responses to hymns of praise. Solemn indeed must have been the effect after the incense had passed from the court into the holy place. In both the morning and evening sacrifice a large instrument, called the magrepha, was struck and the priests all hastened to their places. The choristers ranged up and down the various terraces or approaches to the temple. Slowly the priest and his assistants, carrying the incense, ascended from the court of the Levites and the holy place, and after spreading the coals upon the golden altar the high priest gave the word of command. Then the whole multitude of the people without fell down before the Lord, spreading out their hands in silent prayer. It must be remembered that the temple at Jerusalem was a series of terraces built on a somewhat commanding hill. The lower terrace or court was the court of the gentiles; the next higher terrace was the court of the women; the highest court was the court of the Levites or priests, and here the singers were stationed. On the highest court was built the temple itself which was composed of two portions or rooms with an outer approach or vestibule. Within was the holy place where sat the table of shewbread and the golden candle-sticks on the other side. Clear across hung the veil of the temple, and back of that was the Holy Place which contained only the Ark of the Covenant and which was entered but once a year even by the high priest himself. At the morning and evening sacrifice when the multitude of people knelt before the Lord in silent prayer, deep silence rested upon the worshiping assembly while the priests lifted their hands above their heads spreading and joining their fingers in a peculiar mystical manner. Then began the temple music. First the blasts from the silver trumpets were blown, and there were 120 in this service; the singing priests faced the people, looking eastward. On a signal given by the president, the priests moved forward to each side of him who struck the cymbals. Immediately the choir of the Levites, accompanied by instrumental music, began the Psalm of the day. It was sustained by not less than twelve voices, with which mingled the delicious treble from selected voices of young sons of the Levites, who, standing by their fathers, might take part in this service alone. The number of instrumental performers was not limited, nor yet confined to the Levites, some of the distinguished families which had intermarried with the priests being admitted to this service. The psalm of the day was always sung in three sections. At the close of each the priests blew three blasts from their silver trumpets, and the people bowed down and worshiped. This closed the morning service. Thus we see that ancient Israel made of music a religious service. We may be sure that music attended their wedding feasts as it did their burial ceremonies. Nor were the people without their social musical diversions. All through the Scriptures music is used as the symbol of divine joy and ecstasy. The gospels teem with references to the regular musical services, while John the Revelator fills his descriptions of heaven with the music of harps and the hymnals of the angels. The exquisite heavenly choirs announced the coming of the Christ Child to this earth and the Revelator typifies the final redemption of man with this eloquent apostrophe: "And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps: And they sang as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth" (Rev. 14:2, 3).