Father Has an Inning. By Diana Parrish. Bob was very proud of himself when the Mayor asked him to occupy a seat on the platform at the canal celebration.

He had done considerable on the various committees but his being invited to the platform was an additional honor which he felt he was worthy of, of course, but even so it pleased him. He wondered whether father had been invited to sit on the platform. Father had not been working on any of the committees which was somewhat strange as he nearly always represented the family on such occasions. Bob would have liked to ask father whether or not he was invited, but hesitated to do so for fear that he was not and might consequently be offended when questioned about it. Deep down in his heart Bob was not sure that father had been invited because to his way of thinking father was getting to be a little behind the times and his manners like his business methods were beginning to appear antiquated. It was time that he gradually retired and let his sons carry on the affairs of the family. There was another thing about which Bob as the oldest son had been wondering. Father of late had been more and more secretive about his business. He had seemed little disposed to discuss his affairs with the boys and had not taken them into his confidence whatever. They were all quite sure that his business was none too good as the war had simply knocked the bottom out of stocks. He had taken three trips to Denver, several trips to Idaho cities, one long trip to Oregon and a hurried journey to Washington, calling at Seattle and several surrounding cities. Each time he came home he seemed more and more worried and tired. On the day of his last return, Bob thought he looked positively ill, but nevertheless relieved. Sort of resigned as if he had a hard fight, had lost and had given up to his fate, and therefore had the comfort of knowing that at least the struggle was finished. Father said nothing to any of them when they inquired about his trip. "Had a very good trip," he vouchsafed. "But, father, you look so worn out! You must let us take some of this work from your shoulders. You must let us help you," urged the boys. "Nonsense. I am quite all right. Just a little tired and dirty from the train." Not another word about the business that had taken him away. Not another word about anything. FATHER HAS AN INNING. After father had gone home, the boys looked at each other questioningly. "He's working too hard," said Bob. "A man at his age should be retired and living on a little country place looking after the pigs and chickens. Business is not what it was when father first began. Nowadays it's a battle from start to finish. It takes a young man to cope with it." Tim shook his head seriously as he spoke, feeling within himself that he was equal to the great struggle. "It's too bad," sighed Tom. "Too bad, that father won't retire and live comfortably on what he has saved instead of running the chances of losing it all by carrying on his business in this old-fashioned way." There was nothing to be done so the boys watched father going in his own way and looking every day a little more jaded and worn. In the excitement of the coming celebration, Bob and the other boys forgot about father. Such preparations had never been made before, for the canal meant more to the community than any other one thing since the advent of the railroad. The celebration was in honor of the accomplishment of the first step toward the building of the "big ditch" and the Secretary from Washington was coming all the way to congratulate the citizens and encourage them to push their undertaking to completion. Naturally the Secretary became the center of the demonstration. The day was to begin with the people meeting him at the station. From there he was to be escorted by the militia and police to the great mass meeting and banquet in the park. Everybody in town was stirred up over the event, from "Pop" Harrington down to Sally Cook, the old water cress woman whom all the children declared had webbed feet from wading so much in swamps and ditches. In her enthusiasm the poor old lady offered to furnish the water cress for the banquet, an offer that was gladly accepted as there was no doubt that she could gather cress that would do justice to a Waldorf Astoria feast. "Pop" Harrington drove a coach and four and had a man sit up on the box "winding a horn" as they do in the fashionable coaching outfits.

In fair weather his delight was to drive down Center Street dressed in red coat, white breeches, black, shiny boots and tall beaver hat, his four black horses shining and prancing as if they enjoyed the show as much as anybody. The people on the streets stopped to look at him and "Pop" felt that this homage was worth all the expense and trouble that he was put to in keeping up his coach. It was trouble, too, now, for the gout had claimed him and many a day he would have preferred sitting at home with his foot propped up on a cushioned chair. Nevertheless, gout or no gout, he never could quite bring himself to give up the pleasure of bowing to the populace who stared at him as he passed. On this occasion, he was sure to be a most conspicuous figure. Had he not been certain of this "Pop" would not have left his chair, for his birthday dinner of last week had made his foot swell twice its size. He wanted to drive beside Melvin Jeremy who was the proud possessor of the biggest motor car in the city. In "Pop's" estimation, motors were not in it when compared to a coach and four. He held his head highest when driving alongside the motor and "showing it up" as he said to his friends. Both "Pop" and Melvin Jeremy wanted to drive the Secretary from the train to the park. The committee on arrangements had both offers and were considerably embarrassed as to which one to accept. In order to avoid trouble they finally decided to let "Pop" meet the delegate and drive to the park. Jeremy was to have the honor of taking him back to the train at night. While "Pop" was congratulating himself that his horses and startling horn would create a sensation with the gentleman from Washington, Jeremy was equally satisfied that his dazzling "blinkers" which were warranted to blind anyone looking into them and turn night into day would please the notable immensely. So each "prominent citizen" was perfectly happy and spent the next few days in dreaming of his conquest. The Benton family was quite as much exercised as anyone else over the gala day. In fact from mother down to the youngest grandchild, each felt that the success of the affair depended largely on his or her efforts. Mother had been asked to furnish two freezers of ice-cream for the banquet, one vanilla and one lemon. "You know lots of people still cling to their liking for lemon flavoring," commented Mrs. Mayford, the chairman of the refreshments. Fannie had been asked to bring sandwiches. She spent days hunting for the latest and most fashionable kinds she could find. Plain ham and cheese were out of the question. Only "unpronounceable" and breath-taking combinations were to be considered. After searching through fashion notes for a week to see what the smart set was eating these days by way of sandwiches, she compromised with pimento cheese, caviar mixtures, and lettuce leaves spread with anchovy paste. Geraldine was helping with the flowers and canvassed the houses in her division for days getting promises of nasturtiums, roses, lilacs, sweet peas and mignonette. She begged so gracefully that her donations filled a wagon in which was a huge basketful of early scented peonies from the garden of old Sam Wilson the only man in town who possessed such a rare variety. She never did tell how she got those peonies but Viola carried two bottles of grape catsup with a neatly-written, exclusive recipe for the same to old Sam the day before the big affair, so she had a pretty good idea of the sacrifice it cost Geraldine. Isobel was also a member of the committees being on the receiving list. She felt that for once she was in her element. Receiving cabinet ministers was just what she was intended for. She would have liked just such a job every day in the year. The only one who seemed out of it was father. He scarcely took notice of what was going on. He went to his office early and came home late. During the day he was not much to be seen unless it was talking with some stalwart farmers and ranchers. At two o'clock of the eventful day the train signaled with an unmistakable shriek that there was an important passenger aboard. The citizens who had stood in the boiling sun since eleven heaved a sigh of relief and wiped away their sweaty foreheads for what they hoped would be the last time. As the train came to a stop, the Secretary from Washington stepped to the platform of the private car.

A shout went up as the people caught sight of him. He took off his elegant panama hat and bowed in acknowledgment. At this moment it was intended that the Mayor should make a little speech of welcome to which the Secretary would reply extemporaneously, but these plans were upset by "Pop" Harrington dashing up with his sparkling blacks and his man blowing his horn with such deafening regularity that it completely dumbfounded the Mayor, and "Pop" hustled him and the whole party into his coach without more ado. The cheers with which the people greeted the honorable gentleman from the Capital more than made up for the loss of an opportunity to speak so no serious damage was done. "Pop" cracked his whip and started his blacks up the street with an unexpected dash that forced the militia and mounted policemen to canter ahead to the next corner and begin the procession there. After a few minutes "Pop" managed to control his jubilation to such a degree that he brought his horses down to a prance. He also signaled his man to stop "winding his horn" much to the relief of the distinguished visitor who was beginning to wonder if the tales he had heard of the wild and woolly west were really true. His fears of momentarily being held up by a masked rider with a shotgun were quieted when he looked on the undisturbed faces of the Governor, the Mayor and the rest of the party who were smilingly acknowledging the applause of the citizens. Through the town the party went, passing the notable buildings and land, driving up the chief boulevard and finally arriving at the park. For hours the crowd had been gathering round the platform, many foregoing the sight of the visitor at the train so that they could get a seat near the front at the meeting. It was here also that the chief rivalry between the citizens was manifest. Those who had been invited to sit on the platform walked to their places with an air of self-acknowledged greatness that was bitter gall to those who had to skirmish for seats below. Bob assisted with the seating of the guests and then found his own place near the middle of the platform. He could not hope for a front seat yet. Also he became suddenly conscious that he had not seen father all day. What on earth could he be doing not to appear on such an occasion. He had seen mother helping with the preparations for the banquet, all the girls seemed to be bustling about, and the boys were lending a helping hand, but father was nowhere in sight. Bob began to condemn himself for not having called the affair to father's attention and for not trying to get father a seat with him. Father was very busy, and even if his methods were old fashioned perhaps it was all the more reason for his needing help. At any rate he would never let another such opportunity slip by without going directly to father's assistance and Bob's ruminations were interrupted by the arrival of the party. Everybody settled back to listen to the program. They entered into the demonstration with whole hearts. They sang the Star Spangled Banner with great enthusiasm. They bowed their heads during the invocation, silently adding supplications of their own. The Governor's address and introduction of the Secretary were especially inspiring. The Secretary's response was thrilling. It made the people feel proud of their accomplishment. They were glad they had gone into the thing and were prepared to carry it on at any sacrifice. As the Secretary sat down the people relaxed and whispered their approval of the speeches to their neighbors. The orchestra and band got ready to play the final air, the trombone men giving their instruments a few preliminary slides and the cornetists blowing the air from their pieces with gustatory puffs. The Governor squirmed around in his seat and then suddenly got up. "Ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I don't know whether you know it or not but I have been suffering a small purgatory all day. In spite of the fact that we are receiving a congratulatory visit from the Honorable Secretary, we are really not quite prepared to have him. Our plans miscarried at a time too late to ask him to delay his visit." He turned to the Secretary with an apologetic smile. Everybody was startled by the strange remarks and with the innate human love of mystery or scandal sat breathlessly waiting further disclosures. This curiosity spread like wildfire. Even mother and her helpers came and stood behind the seats leaving FATHER HAS AN INNING.

203 the banquet preparations with only a few to guard the dainties from the usual ravages of flies and small boys. "Just now I have seen a gentleman join this assemblage who was intrusted with the delicate mission of getting the men who failed us back into line. His presence here leads me to believe that he has been successful and that this meeting after all will celebrate the beginning of a reality and not an idle dream." The Governor smiled benignantly, then continued, "I want to ask the gentleman of whom I speak to come to the platform. I want to introduce the man who has been the chief factor in our accomplishments. Only his good business judgment, steadfastness, patience and diplomacy have made this thing possible. I want to present to you all and especially to you, Honorable Secretary, the man of the hour." The Governor waved with authority at the small man who had just sat down at the farthest corner. The small man turned red and stood up uncertainly. Then he walked slowly down the aisle. Bob, like everybody else, turned to look at the "gentleman who had joined the assemblage." But owing to the huge form of the man in front of him he saw nothing of the important person until he walked up the platform steps looking a little tired and hot, his trousers bagging considerably at the knees and his collar wilting down at the corners. The Governor stepped forward quickly to meet the gentleman. He led to the center of the stage no other person than father! Bob felt a queer choking sensation, then he joined in the thunderous applause that came from the audience when they realized that a simple, quiet man from their very midst had accomplished such important things. Father's words of acknowledgment were faltering. "Really, the Governor has overestimated my worth—he is too kind. All I can say is that matters have been re-arranged this morning. I have ridden all day to bring the message that our plans will be carried out." So father bowed and cheers drowned further utterances with some confusion. The Secretary stood up at this moment and before the whole audience shook father's hand. Then while the crowd whistled and cheered he pulled him into a seat next to his. He chatted with him eagerly, occasionally laying his hand on father's shoulder like a long lost brother. Father's innings had begun.