PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. Defense Council of Utah. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams has now completed her general committee and appointed a delegate to the National League for service in Chicago. Mrs. Edward Bichsel, first vice president; Mrs. J. William Knight, second vice president; Mrs. R. E. L. Collier, third vice president; Miss Elsa Bamberger, secretary; Mrs. Thomas Kearns, Mrs. Franklin S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, Mrs. W. Worthington, Mrs. F. Eugene Morris, and Mrs. Thomas D. Dee of Ogden. New members appointed by Mrs. John A. Widtsoe, who is State Chairman of Education, are Mrs. M. K. Parsons, Miss Mary T. Connelly, Mrs. William Moebest, and Mrs. T. W. Naylor. Mrs. Williams has announced that the majority of the county chairmen have their work so well organized that by using the telephone any new war work can be started in one-half an hour. The Red Cross in France. The American Red Cross is doing to help keep up the morale of the French people is briefly but vividly described in a cable, just received from Maj. James H. Perkins, the American Red Cross Commissioner to Europe. The cable contains a review of the progress of the Civilian Relief work in France since the first of the year. It shows how effectively American generosity is being applied to the task of caring for the French refugees and repatriates, of rehabilitating maimed and crippled and of ministering to the victims of tuberculosis and other diseases contracted in war. According to Major Perkins, the American Red Cross has established nine civilian hospitals, with a total capacity of 974 beds, 36 dispensaries and dispensary stations. Fifty-one delegates and assistants are helping to re-establish in French homes the 600 or more repatriates who flow into France daily from the occupied areas of France and Belgium. In six districts which cover the devastated areas, warehouses have been established from which clothing, tools and food are distributed to the returning population. This does not include the American Friends' Unit, which has 140 members, at twelve stations, working under Red Cross direction; or the Smith College Unit, which has seventeen members at Grecourt who are now a part of the Red Cross. Thirty-one new centers of direct work were established in January, and the staff was increased by 86 persons. Two new hospitals and eight new dispensaries were opened; 21 repatriate delegates were sent; one new district was added to the devastated area; and a farm of 500 acres near Tours was obtained for agricultural re-education of cripples. Medical examination was given to 17,827 civilians, chiefly children, including the 11,402 repatriate children examined at Evian. Medical care in hospitals was given to 978. Hospital relief was given weekly to 800 tuberculosis 220 . patients in Paris. Instruments, food, clothing and books valued at 202,517 francs were distributed to fifty-four hospitals outside of Paris. One hundred and seventy-five families were re-housed in Paris. Articles distributed to refugees and shipped to devastated areas include 43,978 articles of clothing, 11,902 pairs of shoes, 748 articles of furniture, 7,700 pounds of foodstuffs, 43,994 articles of bedding, 26,406 yards of cloth, 8,148 articles unclassifiable. SURNAME BOOK. It is hoped that the Surname Book will be ready at Conference time or shortly thereafter. The book will contain many maps, tables, and illustrative pedigrees, with much new matter. The index will include most of the surnames in the Church, the majority of these with definitions of their meanings and origin. The edition is necessarily small, but enough will be printed to allow each ward one book, yet not more than two to a ward. Price, $2.00.

Stake presidents will do well to bring orders to conference with them, as it will be first come, first served.

The annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be held Wednesday and Thursday, April 3rd and 4th, 1918. On Wednesday, April 3rd, two officers' meetings will be held, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., in the Auditorium, fourth floor Bishop's building. The officers' meetings will be limited to stake officers, stake board members and stake representatives. On Wednesday evening at 8 o'clock an important meeting will be held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's building under the direction of the Home Economics Department. On Thursday, April 4th, two general sessions will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. All officers and Relief Society members are invited to be in attendance.

Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Presidency.