Democracy must be made safe for the world." Men airily assume that a world can be redeemed through the operation of a republican form of government. They speculate learnedly on the effect of this form of democracy, that mode of socialism. When I read their groping attempts to solve the riddle of the universe with a political panacea, I am reminded of a tiny niece of mine who loved to sit on her grandfather's knee in the soft summer twilight. "Don't you hear the frogs talk, Lucy?" asked her anxious grandmother. "They're saying, 'Go to bed, Lucy, go to bed, go to bed.'" "Let them talk," calmly responded the three-year-old. Christian Scientists, New Thought people, The World and divers sincere yet mistaken essayists and Love.

and preachers tell us that "Love, just love" will bring about the world's reformation and redemption. Others build great schools, endow research col-

 .

leges; while the cry of "save the babies" echoes through the land. Love, democracy, education of the masses, slum-settlements, control of the will, "war and kultur," all these various schemes are put forth, cried aloud in the market-place and finally fought for and died for. Will it all, or any of it, avail? It has not availed any nor all of these ideals, so far in the world's history, although tried honestly, and sincerely. What then? Make democracy safe for the world by preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, and teaching men to obey its laws and precepts. All forms of government not founded and carried forward through the inspiration of God will crumble and perish. They have, they will. Love will do much, most of all to redeem the world but love is a law and its functions and expressions must be governed by law, or it sinks to the level of blind instinct or unreasoning passion. Education? Civilization? When have either preserved a nation or a people who associated these great forces with internal corruption and shameless vice? Answer, historian. Then would you say that only a handful of people away off in the Rocky Mountains, hated and feared as they are by the rest of the world are these "Mormons," then, the only people who possess the key of the world riddle? Can only they make democracy safe for the world? Oh, narrow, bigoted assumption, you may reply. Yet, not I, but Christ it was who said "Straight is the gate and narrow the way;" and further, "few there be that find it." The way is open to all, the key hangs invitingly out of Father's welcoming door. No man will make this world safe for democracy, nor democracy safe for this world. That is the task, the burden laid upon Christ's shoulders. And he holds the key—the key of the priesthood after His own order, to administer in the ordinances of His House. Come, buy and partake! Get oil in your lamps! Have you lamps? They are free to all who stretch forth the hand and who are willing to pay the price. Ah, the price!

The poem in the January number accredited to Annie D. Palmer was written by Mrs. Euphrasia Cox Day. Will our contributors kindly sign every contribution sent in and address all such letters to the Editor?