The Gospel Standard

J. K. R. B. Cecil Gates

1. The Gospel standard high is raised, On Zion's sacred shore; Rejoice, ye Saints our God be praised, Proud Satan's reign is o'er.

2. Earth to its loveliness restored, Shall echo back the strains From thousand heav'nly choirs poured When Christ in triumph reigns.

"The bright millennium dawns at last, The faithful shall be free, Christ will reward their trials past, With immortality."

By Maud Baggarley.

Brave flower of the desert ways That clothes in beauty parched and dreary fields, Thy spirit yields Unto my soul A measure of its fortitude, For this I know: That One who bade thee forth to go Earth's darkness to illume, That One who had the thought divine To hide the ugliness and gloom Of Earth With glory such as thine, Can kindle in my heart a flame of light That through its high divinity Shall make The whole wide world more bright!

(A tribute to the work of the Woman's Relief Society.) Not all battles in life are fought at the front, Not all vict'ries are won by the sword: Greater combats are waged against sickness and want Than the annals of bloodshed record. For they who fight poverty, drive away grief, And aid the diseased and distressed, Are bearing the cause of their Master and Chief Who laid it on Calvary's crest. 'Tis woman's true nature, her glory and grace To be loving and tender and kind: So God in His wisdom reserved her a place Where her gifts fullest freedom may find. In His Church He has work that is fitted to all, To those with one talent or ten. And to women is given as sacred a call As ever was given to men: Go visit the bedside of sick and diseased, For they were His special concern: In soothing their sorrows His Spirit is pleased, And thy kindness tenfold shall return. Go comfort the aged whose feeble feet press The verge of Eternity's shore: That the evening shadows of life may grow less, And the dawn-light of heaven grow more. Go watch o'er the dying (the angels are there To guide the lone spirit from earth). And remember he'll extol in his last mortal prayer, Thy Lord has completed His mission below, And called thee to work in His stead. As angels of mercy His tenderness show To the living and dying and dead. "Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace, As I cared for the poor, so do ye, And if ye do good to the least among these, Ye verily do it to Me." David J. Watts.

Remember the firms that are true to the Magazine

Dear Sister: We wish to call your special attention to our