[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY | Author: RHODA A. MILLER, PRES]

	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	  	   		REPORTS
			MILL CREEK WARD
	A report of the reorganization and proceed-
ings of the Relief Society of Mill Creek. Our
Association was reorganized August 14th 1877,
under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller
and his Counselors. With the following named
officers: Mrs. Rhoda A. Miller, President
[Column 2]
Elisabeth Hill and Ann Lemon, Counselors;
Sarah A. Snedaker, Secretary; Miss Nellie
Spencer Asst. Secretary; Mrs. Araminta North,
Treasurer; Melinda H. Butterworth Asst.
Treasurer.
	Some time ago Sarah A. Snedaker, resigned
her office on account of leaving the Ward,
Nellie Spencer was chosen Secretary.  Since
that time we have received donations in cash
to the amount of $415.05; property, $128.45;
labor, $16.15.  Disbursements, to P.A. Fund,
cash $26.00; Salt Lake Temple, $21.50; Logan
Temple, $100.00; poor in cash, $160.00; and
in property $85.11; remaining in Treasury
$107.55; property, $43.34. We have stored
for Zion, wheat to the amount of 497, bu.
18 lbs.
	I am happy to report our Society to be in a
thriving condition. All seem to take a lively
interest.  Our President has not been able to at-
tend much during the last few years on account
of poor health, though afflicted and suffering
much of the time, she lies on her bed preaching
the Gospel and her good influence is felt in the
meetings, and her great and one object is the
Church and kingdom of God. We feel to be
co-workers with you in doing all we can in
regard to sustaining and upholding those that
are placed over us; for we realize that the
time is coming when we will have to see after
the things of God and not after the folly and
fashions of the world; sustain our own people
in preference to the outside element. We
must become united for where there is unity
there is strength and if every there was a time
that strength was needed it is now, to withhold
the opposing power that has been allowed to
rise up among us.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel.
			RHODA A. MILLER, PRES.
