Gifted Children By Florence Ivins Hyde SINCE Sir Francis Galton predicted, many years ago, that it would be possible someday to measure a man's intelligence, many of the world's finest minds have been at work on the study of mental testing. This study has grown to such an extent that the term "I. Q." is as familiar to the average housewife as the words "vitamin" and "endocrine." That there are vast differences in the intellectual endowments of individuals has been shown conclusively by psychological tests. They show that there are as many children far above this average as there are far below, and yet, very few are accelerated while many are retarded in school. The tremendous waste involved in re-teaching these retarded children has become a real problem, out of which grew the use of the intelligence tests in the schools. If it could be determined whether they fail because they are not capable or because of bad health or poor instruction, the problem could more easily be solved. The validity of the tests was demonstrated during the World War when the soldiers were observed to turn out in action just about as the tests predicted they would. It was so that "parents and teachers everywhere might have a true knowledge of the signs and symptoms of exceptional ability, and how children of this sort compare with average children" that Dr. Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University, in 1921, began his study of gifted children. If we believe that the nation's most precious assets are its intellectually gifted people, too much importance cannot be placed upon a survey of the type he made, for instead of guessing as we had done in the past, we now have the facts of his study of one thousand children to guide us. This study was a tremendous task, extending over four years. The published report covers 650 printed pages which had been condensed from an original of 100,000 typewritten pages. A still later volume contains the results of a re-test made ten years later. Both volumes make fascinating reading for anyone interested in the subject of gifted children. DR. TERMAN went into the schools of California?Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Oakland? where all types of children could be found. Only those were chosen who could pass a psychological test at or above 140. According to Dr. Leta S. Hollingsworth, 130 I. Q. is required to go through college with good grades. About one out of every two hundred in America reaches this standard. The study presents a certain amount of evidence that superior children come from families who are above average in height and weight, whose infant mortality is low, and the longevity of whose grandparents is above average. Among their ancestors there are fewer divorces than in the general population. An attempt was made to determine what relation exists between the children and their social groups. The groups were listed in the following manner: Professional Group Lawyers Physicians and Surgeons Engineers (with college degrees) Teachers Clergymen Writers Dentists Musicians Architects Inventors Commercial Group Executives and Managers Salesmen Insurance Agents Retail Dealers Clerical Workers Wholesale Workers Manufacturers Druggists Editors and Publishers Public Accountants Industrial Group Carpenters Mechanics Tailors Painters Contractors Barbers Florists Photographers Farmers Unskilled Laborers Public Service Group Postmen and Clerks City Firemen Army and Navy Soldiers Mayors, City Councilmen, and other City Officers Policemen Civil Service Clerks THIS data showed surprising and interesting results. The largest number of gifted children did not come from the professional group, as might be expected but from the commercial group which furnished 42.6% of the subjects. The Professional group furnished 29.1%, the Industrial group 20.2% and the Public Service Group only 4.5%. Children who test high in intellect appear to be more interested in abstract than in practical subjects, doing exceptional work in subjects which require "thought" but poor work, as a rule, in penmanship, sewing, games and sports. A marked characteristic among them is their sense of justice. They crave it above all other things, even kindness. Teachers never rated these children as high as the tests indicated they should be rated. Age was an important factor in the survey. It was observed that the youngest child carrying the work of his grade, usually passes the highest mental test of the group. Terman considers this his most important finding for it "indicates that it is not so much what a child can do as the age at which he can do it which indicates his intelligence." In testing their play interests it was found that these children have most interest in games that require thinking, and in their reading interests, that they read books of a far wider range than average children and many more books of information. ONE of the most interesting tests made was that made to determine the character and personality traits of brilliant children. Quoting Dr. Terman: "The gifted child of nine has reached a level of character development corresponding to that of the average child of 14 years"? an astounding fact, for after all, character development is the desirable thing in education. Girls appear to rate higher in these tests than boys but boys surpass them in the test of honesty. Between twelve and fourteen years of age, boys show a decided drop in moral development, indicating that at this age they need special sympathy and understanding from parents and teachers. Girls as a group do not show this drop. In every test made, except in a few mechanical tests, the gifted groups rated higher than the unselected groups. Of a large number of children selected by their teachers as having special ability in music, art, manual training and domestic art, only three possessed I. Q.'s high enough to qualify for the survey; and yet people with talent seem to get farther in the world than people of intellectual capacity. THIS new data gathered by Dr. Terman indicates that ability must be an original endowment for it appears in early childhood, and that with proper education and training many more eminent people might be developed. The $40,000 which the survey cost was fully justified for it substituted facts for the opinions of the past. For ten years longer annual reports of these children were kept, then a re-test was made to determine what changes, if any, had occurred. These adult boys surpassed girls on the tests at every age, and yet they dropped in their achievement scores. Girls average higher marks in all school courses. The gifted children were superior in social and moral traits just as they were in the original survey. Character problems were very few?5% among boys and 2% among girls. In the unselected group the proportion was twice as great. 38% of the boys and 47 % of the girls state that their lives have been greatly influenced by a person, book, philosophy, or religion. The type of influence most often mentioned is that of one or both parents. This fact has tremendous significance in determining the obligation of adults to the young. PROFESSOR TERMAN was not satisfied to study only the ultra bright children of the present but went back in history to try to discover the factors which contribute to eminence. Galton had long before concluded that "no man can achieve a very high reputation without being gifted with very high abilities and few who possess these abilities can fail to achieve eminence." To test this problem Terman used the available records of 301 of the most prominent men and women of history who lived between 1450 and 1850. The group includes scientists, artists, musicians, philosophers, poets, historians, soldiers, politicians, statesmen, etc. THIS survey could not possibly be so accurate in its results as that made of living children, but there did appear to be a correlation between the estimated I. Q. and the rank of eminence. In other words, those of greatest eminence showed the highest I. Q. Young philosophers rated higher than any other group, scoring above scientists and writers. Soldiers scored lowest. Artists were also low but were higher than soldiers. Available records indicate that in their youth these eminent people of history rated high in the desirable traits, particularly the intellectual traits. They possessed to an unusual degree forcefulness or strength of character and persistence of motive. It is to be regretted that intellectual endowment appears so early, for it complicates the problem of social adjustment. Brilliant children, as a rule, are not leaders in their groups because by being pushed ahead they are from one to two years younger than their school companions, are often small for their school rooms and as a result are not so active in school affairs. One great problem in the past has been that teachers and parents have failed to recognize ability in children and mistakes of training and discipline, as well as undesirable circumstances, have often starved or warped or killed the genius which might have developed. It seems almost imperative that we provide special classes to fit these children or to in some way enrich their curricula. It takes responsibility to bring out the best in anyone. Without it individuals cannot become creative. In some N. Y. Schools, the problem is being met with what are called Terman classes. 219 No one knows what might be de-developed with proper training. SURELY the hope of the world lies in the people of exceptional ability. Difficult problems are not and can never be solved by mediocre or even average minds. These gifted children may not become famous? eminence may not be an adequate measure of success, but with proper handling the gifted should be superior in adult life just as they are in childhood. They should become the leading physicians, teachers, business men, lawyers and scientists. The more of this stable group we can develop, the higher will be our social group generally. No more important problem confronts us as a nation or particularly as a church, for we try consistently to develop leadership.