The Family Doctor By Drucilla Holmes McFarland ONCE upon a time a good queen sent her family physician into a humble cottage to bring back from the doors of death, a little child. She hoped to spare the anguished parents a heartache, to relieve the suffering of the babe, and to-save a soul for an earthly career. All this she accomplished, and more. As the story goes, the good queen, who telegraphed her family physician at London to make the long trip to the cottage on the Braemar Estate in North Scotland, was rewarded by seeing the little child of her beloved and long childless old servant, restored by the physician's constant attention until the crisis was past. An artist was inspired by the act, to paint for humankind a picture of that noble deed, a picture which has come down through the ages, touching with a finger of reverence, the hearts of countless thousands of people who see it, the world over. I first saw the picture when but a child. It was in the waiting room of our family doctor. I hardly knew the-value of art but the pathos there portrayed gripped me, as did something else which I could not then have named. Nearly half a million people surged and milled at the exposition grounds of the Century of Progress in Chicago. The traffic officers and fairground officials found themselves the victims of a situation beyond their power to control. On the carnival side of the grounds congestion was so dense that there was danger of a stampede on slight provocation and a steady call for ambulance and nurse service. We sought breathing space in another direction and so came to the Hall of Science, and there was disclosed the picture with its interpretation. Among those wonderful discoveries and inventions of genius to which man has conformed, a maze of medical research and accomplishment paid tribute to the doctor's profession, relative life and death, through its masters: Pasteur, Lister, Mayo Brothers, and others. On a side avenue, in a thatched cottage, we found the keynote?the heart throb of appreciation. It was a life-size, life-like replica of that famous painting by Sir Luke Fildes which was inspired by the good Queen. (This new art form of "Sculpticolor" was a part of the Petrologar exhibit.) We were invited to enter the cottage. Once within the portal, a curtained alcove suggested to us, "quiet." We tiptoed inside, then stopped in awe. The men in the party removed their hats. The ladies drew forth handkerchiefs and furtively wiped their eyes. Before us lived the characters of the picture. Dawn is breaking and sifting eerie light through the geraniums in the curtained window of a forester's humble home. The picture defines the figure of a woman prostrate across the wooden table. Her husband stands beside her, his face registering convulsive sobs barely under control, his hand outstretched to her shoulder. A little stronger light from an oil lamp across the room reveals the cause of their despair: a stricken child, lying upon pillows on two chairs. The rounded brow is fevered; fringed lashes arc over darkening eyes; a weakening pulse relaxes little hands lying so pathetically helpless. As the father instills into his suffering mate a little of his tender strength through 224 the hand upon her body, his eyes remain intent upon the Doctor, watching at the side of the child. The Doctor?Ah! There is the real light in the picture?not the oil lamp's fitful glow, not the dawn, but the hope to which the father clings by his trust in a fellowman. Now, see the intent solicitude of that good man. He realizes the potence of his position with the destiny of this bit of humanity in his hands. He feels the trust of the loving parents in his skill. He prays that God will be merciful to His medium. HE fair is over, with all its splendor, its education, its inspiration, leaving a memory of color and glorious lights, colossal accomplishments in science and industry interspersed with art and religion and the carnival element, and withal a great deal of respect for the splendid intelligences that have produced an almost unbelievable development in man's sphere during one century. Much of this panoramic film will fade. The significance of some will be lost entirely, as urgent material responsibilities again take possession of our minds. Much, however, is real gain. That part which we have taken time and trouble to absorb will be permanently rooted in our gardens of thought, there to develop the fruits of knowledge. We have profited most by those contacts which have stamped deeper, our earlier im- ' pressions. Just so, I find my mind reverting to that vivid portrait of "The Doctor," and I see that it has always been outlined on my mind, however faintly. The colors have deepened gradually and the features have become more and more distinct until now the imprint is complete. In our school day career, our picture was begun. You had out-dared all the following line of comrades RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by sliding head first down the straw stack. But you won your laurels at high cost. Children do. You were awed and a little afraid of the big brusque Doctor when he came to set your fractured limb. How you trembled at his touch. He did hurt you and you cried, but when he had gone you wished him back again to ease your pain and to bolster courage with his presence. That was the first stroke of the brush that was to portray the hero. Time went on and he was nearly forgotten. The blurred canvas waited long for the artist's touch again. Finally, the most important event of life was at hand and your days were filled with fine aspirations for your coming child, and with resolutions to make of yourself a perfect pattern. Again you were afraid?this time of yourself: inexperienced, incapable; so you sought your family doctor, and he did not disappoint you. His own pleasure at a family reunion could not hold him against your imperative call. And when, after the travail through which he so patiently led you, he presented you with that symbol of your happiness, your first baby, was there not a hint of triumph in his tone as he said, "Well done, my girl, excellent indeed." AME a day of real need of all' your strength and stamina. The family Doctor was one of us throughout a seemingly endless night. Our vigil was his, and when our efforts were over, he pressed down those darkened lids and smoothed the lines around the fading mouth and moulded dimpled waxen fingers naturalistically above the silent form. And then he went out to you, broken and sobbing in your corner, and said, ?Come and see her now, my dear. Look at the smile gathering to take the place of yesterday?s THE FAMILY DOCTOR suffering. She is at rest." And he led you out again. I loved him then, for doing for you, what none other had the power to do at that moment. And later, when your child had gone astray, in anguish of spirit you sought your family doctor. Remember his words? "Don't scold this child, my dear. Yours is the sin, not his. You are mature?you know the pitfalls of mortal life and you did not guard him well enough." Cruel words? No, after the first sear of censure, you were willing, even anxious to bear his blame. Your eyes were opened farther to your responsibility in parenthood. You would not make that mistake again. Tears fell because of the love in our hearts when we recognized in the Filde Masterpiece the characteristics of our own doctor. Was there also one of regret that this good old-fashioned type might be passing? The modern physician marches to the tune of progression in the uniform of the specialist. Life is changeable and fleeting but as long as the "human touch" endures, wholesome paintings will adorn its Memory Hall. Filde's "Family Doctor" is not extinct. You and I are as fortunate as Royalty in that the doctor's profession still gives untold opportunity for Christ-like service. Our pioneer doctors found it imperative to obey this impulse. Some of them are still here. They are deserving of a bouquet exhaling the fragrance of appreciation. My family doctor answered the call to service in the 80's when an accident?it was a fractured bone? showed him the crying need of professional skill in a new country. Intense suffering followed the clumsy first-aid of friends and a resulting crippled limb brought him to a decision to do his part to end the unnecessary torture and inadequate facilities encountered in the frontier towns. A true pioneer, he hewed to the line with little thought of self. It was the same determination that possessed the plucky rail-splitter who finally brought freedom to the entire colored race. IKE the Pony Express, the pioneer country doctor depended upon fast horses for transportation. Spirited animals were necessary for emergency calls into outlying districts. Deep mud, often to the hubs of his carriage, was encountered during the wet seasons of spring and autumn, as was heavy snow in winter. There were no improved highways then, no snow plows unless it were the farmer's steers or horses, driven from one farm-stead to another to trample down a trail. If the trip was too long to be made by team, an engine was chartered from the railroad yards and with the engineer, the fireman, and the doctor with his satchel aboard, it raced out alone to save a life. Once arrived at the nearest point of his destination, he was met with a sleigh or buggy and often a long cold ride was ahead. Finding need of an operation, the doctor must improvise a hospital, in which case all furniture was removed from the room to be used. That there might be no break in technique, he supervised the washing of walls and table with disinfectant and sterilized his own equipment. Frequently at night by oil lamp or candle light, he undertook the hazardous task, praying silently for Heavenly guidance of his hands. I know one of these white-haired "young" doctors, who has accompanied woman-kind down into the Valley of the Shadow of Death five 226 thousand and two-hundred times in the position of her champion. Utah, justly proud of her lovely children, might join in his praise, for if no other service were accredited him than his accomplishments in obstetrics, that would stand as a monument. Perhaps another can equal or even excel this record. Because your family physician does not advertise his score of maternity cases or his major operations, is no proof of his insignificance. Most truly great men do not hire press agents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Busy with his calling, our hero has little time for meditation. Only you and I may see his reflection in life's fountain: on his countenance the strength of conquering and the benignity that comes from serving God, through fellowman; but though his deeds are unportrayed and his praises unsung, he is enthroned with reverence within our hearts. Such blood will supply the stream. That trends upward through another century of progress.