The Little Things of Childhood By Caroline Eyring Miner MY childhood's happiness was measured out in little things. Was yours? I bless my mother who knew so much about children and their joy in little things. Perhaps, too, I should give thanks to poverty and a large family which made only simple things possible. I shall pick at random from my memories of childhood the bright spots polished with the joy of little things. And first will come birthdays?so simple their joy and yet still so bright and sparkling. On my birthday I was the queen of the day?mother saw to that. I could play to my heart's content without the responsibility of a single odd job to worry me. I was allowed also to make a batch of Boston Cream candy?so simple to make that no one needed to help me. Father always gave us nickels on our birthdays, one for each year of our age, and the mission of little nickels was never more happily fulfilled. CHRISTMAS was memorable in so many little ways. To me Christmas days were the pivots on which the years were fastened and they seemed to be eternities apart. Nevertheless when they did come they were worth all the waiting; all traditions of the day were so real to me that I have actually thought I heard Santa's sleigh bells and the hoof clicks of his reindeers even in the sunny Southwest many and many a Christmas night. Santa never saw fit to over-indulge us but the little things were loved just as much. The largest doll I ever had in my life was only eighteen inches long and had only a cloth body but it was none the less loved and cared for as well as any big doll could have been. The happiest Christmas I remember was the one on which we made even our Christmas tree. It was impossible to get any kind of an evergreen tree so we found an old leafless tree, put it in a can of rocks and tied bunches of mistletoe all over it and then decorated it with popcorn, red and green paper chains and cotton. It was really a beautiful Christmas tree. STORE candy" was a real treat to us. Mother used to drive the horse and buggy to a neighboring town ten miles away to shop about once a week. When we could expect her back in the evenings we would run for a mile to meet her to hang onto the back of the buggy and suck the long sticks of chocolate stick candy which she brought. No candy I have ever eaten since has remained in my memory as such a delicacy. WAS twelve years old when I saw my first picture show?and that was in these so-called movie days, for I am not old yet. We simply had no money for such things. But what a thrill that first show was! I had had the pleasure of anticipating it for months as it was the prize to be attained for perfect attendance at Primary for the summer months. Incidentally, it was difficult to keep up Primary attendance in our ward during the summer but not to get me to go, for it was one of my greatest pleasures. I don't recall all that this first show was about but among (bias other things there was an educational reel on fish hatcheries and I have ever since had a warm spot in my heart for the unromantic things. MY mother's happy smile and appreciative and endearing words at finding the house all cleaned up when she returned from Relief Society meeting or from some duty connected with her office of president of the Relief Society, were little things that filled my childhood with real joy. What did it matter that every loose thing had been tucked in the machine drawer out of sight or that innumerable out-of-place things crouched shamefully beneath the bed, when mother knew that the important things for her little girls were her smile and praise. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BOOKS I received in childhood, Black Beauty, Heidi, The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come, I still prize as my choicest possessions? little things that have: grown bigger with the years, HEY were little things, these brightly polished moments of my childhood and perhaps yours are also. I venture, too, that my children and yours will treasure and value the little, the simple things of their childhood. Like the boy who was given an extravagant plaything and spent the afternoon playing with the box and the string that it had come in, our children will pass over the artificial and complicated experiences, to polish and brighten, and relive the simple little Joys of childhood. HERE COMES APRIL B. M. R. Here comes lovely April, In her emerald gown, Trailing fleecy cloudlets From her diamond crown. Smiling through the raindrops, Coquetting with the hours, Coaxing out the little leaves For future shady bowers. Mother Nature, radiant, Sings a happy song, Wooing with warm breezes Flowers who've slept so long, Spilling gold on daffodils, Scattering choice perfume, Waking all the songbirds To join her merry tune. Lovely lady April, Tripping down the hill, Caresses all the pussies Growing by the rill. Then, with graceful curtsy To her sister May, Who has come to meet her, She hastens on her way.