Notes to the Field | National Youth Administration THE Federal Government, through the National Youth Administration, has made available three funds to assist youth who are unemployed. One fund is available to universities and colleges to assist young people to continue their education. These funds are administered by the executives of the schools, based upon the need of students. A similar fund is available to high schools. Here also principals provide work opportunities for boys and girls according to their need, to assist them to purchase books, transportation and other essentials for them to remain at school. The third sum is for work projects for young people ages 16-25, who are members of families eligible for employment on the Works Progress Administration Projects. These young people must be registered in the' National Re-employment Service. It is reported that many of these young people have not registered, and therefore will not be assigned to the National Youth Administration Projects which are now established throughout the several States. We believe the above information will be of value to our officers who no doubt will know many young people who could be in school if they knew of the help which is available, and many who will want to work on the National Youth Projects if they are informed that they should register with the National Re-employment Service. Bear River Stake Reorganized WORD comes to us of the recent reorganization of the Bear River Stake Relief Society. It is a pleasure to express to the retiring President, Sister Margaret W. Manning and her co-workers, the grateful appreciation of the General Board of Relief Society for their long and efficient service. Sister Manning has certainly demonstrated the essential qualities of leadership? vision to see the needs of her community, courage to follow the course that leads to achievement, even though sometimes difficult; and magnetism to draw others with her. It is with a feeling of regret that we no longer count her among our group of Stake Presidents, but we know that she will always cherish Relief Society in her heart and have the love and esteem of her co-workers and the general organization. Weare very happy to greet Sister Clara H. Fridal, the new President, and the able group of women with which she has surrounded herself, and feel sure that the high standard achieved in Relief Society by President Manning will be carried forward under the able leadership of Sister Fridal. Literary Department H4VE you ever wished to turn back the pages in the Book of Life and live again with friends and companions whose spirit and influence meant so much to you? Why not turn the pages of other books and enjoy that same feeling of companionship with those who have interpreted life and nature in language of power and beauty, so that out of the silence their voice speaks to your understanding heart. For suggestions read: Adventures in Reading in the November, 1935, Relief Society Magazine. NOTES TO THE FIELD Work and Business Department IF housewives knew what the market provides in commodities and service, where the articles are obtainable, when available, the best season and form of each; special characteristics of various kinds of goods, their comparative value in relation to suitability for use, durability and cost in terms of household preparation and care, much worry, time and energy would be eliminated. Social Service UR civilization will be measured by the children it produces and by the civilization they in turn produce. The most hopeful and outstanding quality of our present generation is that it has become child conscious. Many even feel that the only really worthwhile values in the human race are associated with children. People now are realizing that child welfare is a subject which should be of deep interest not only to every parent but to every citizen as well. Parents cannot afford to limit their attention to their own children, for 267 the welfare of their own children depends in a large measure upon the welfare of children generally. If it is true that you cannot be sure of good health in the avenue, while disease flourishes in the alley, that you cannot be sure of the health of your own children as long as other children are ill; it may also be true that you cannot be sure of the moral and spiritual safety of your own children if other children are not also protected from evils and vice. Our interest in child welfare should not diminish as long as there are: 6,000,000 improperly nourished 1,000,000 with defective speech 1,000,000 with weak or damaged hearts 675,000 present behavior problems 450,000 mentally retarded 382,000 tubercular 3,000,000 with impaired hearing 18,000 totally deaf 300,000 crippled 50,000 partially blind 14,000 wholly blind 200,000 delinquent 500,000 dependent.