This year people are especially joyous for after years of short water Arbor ARBOR DAY owes its origin to J. Sterling Morton of Nebraska, a former Secretary of Agriculture of the United States. While the word arbor to America means a bower, to the Romans it meant a tree and so it is an appropriate title for this day when all over the United States many, many trees are planted. Before the inauguration of this day Nebraska was called "the treeless State" then it set the very first recorded tree-planting day when the State Board of Agriculture adopted a resolution by J. Sterling Morton designating the 10th of April for that purpose. In that year, 1872, more than a million trees were planted. This example was emulated by other states until now it is nationwide in its observance. Supplies the mountains are covered deep with snow, the earth is soaked as it has not been for years, times are growing better in the business world too, so with new hopes and bright prospects we hail the springtime. May its gladness fill every heart. Day The service of trees, it has been truly said, begins with the cradle and ends with the coffin. To an almost unimaginable extent this service continues throughout life. Houses, furniture, fences, fuel, frames and handles for, agricultural implements, wharves, boats and ships, rubber with all the uses to which it is put, gum, bark, cork, carriages, railroad cars and automobiles?how difficult it would be to make these without trees. Trees guard the sources of rivers, prevent floods, give shade and beauty. During the last few years many memorial trees have been planted. Pasadena calls her memorial trees her Hall of Fame. "Trees are monuments with a meaning, for they live gloriously just as did those for whom they were planted." Editor Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimbal! Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL Foreign visitors frequently plant trees. The Prince of Wales placed _many in the United States as did also Foch when they visited here. Pershing planted many trees in France. Trees should be planted with Intelligent thought. They should be carefully cared for after they are planted. Children should be taught in the home and in the schools to love trees, to have knowledge concerning them, how to distinguish the different species, what kinds to select for planting in different localities, how to plant them, how to protect them and care for them. Tree planting gives discipline in foresight. In this day we are all too prone to desire quick results, immediate returns. He who plants a tree, plants for future beauty and joy and not only for his own but for a future generation. Very many people have made the mistake of planting too many trees and have had too much shade around their houses. They also have made a mistake in the kinds they have planted. While the poplar, boxelder and silver maple grow quickly and look well for a time, they are short lived and in a few years become unsightly. Trees should be chosen for their hardiness, attractiveness and usefulness. The elm and oak while slow in growth live for a century and each 269 year adds to their picturesqueness and gracefulness. One who drives in April into the country and notes the quickening of the earth as a result of the warm sunshine that has penetrated the ground, sees earth coming to life. An urge fills his being to plant. "Plant thou a tree whose griefless leaves shall sing Thy deed and thee, each fresh unfolding spring." ?E. M. Thomas. Arbor Day, we must remember, means more than planting trees. Shrubbery, plants and seeds of various kinds are planted on that day and schools also encourage the children to clean up the lots and make the property around their homes more sightly. Many get the spirit of this day and do much planting who would otherwise fail to do it. There is a growing tendency for people not only to beautify their own property but the highways. Grounds around public buildings are often beautified on this day. It would be well for everyone who possibly can to do some planting each Arbor Day and thus make the world a more beautiful place in which to live.