Asphalt Deposits Corroborate The Book of Mormon By E. Cannon Porter FROM the La Brea tar pits, Los Angeles, comes mute evidence of the truth of items mentioned in the Book of Mormon. In the latter is a description of horses used by the Nephites and Lamanites in America. Historians have claimed that there were no horses in North America when the Spaniards first came. The Indians were amazed at the sixteen horses brought to Mexico by Cortez. They at first thought that the equine and his rider were one animal like a centaur. They cut off the head of a horse and examined it with a great deal of curiosity. The bubbling asphalt pits, estimated to be from 20,000 to 100,000 years old have yielded the skeletons of horses, showing that the animal originally lived in America. These same silent witnesses would incline to the Latter-day Saint contention that the Garden of Eden was located on the American continent? near Independence, Missouri. Skeletons of elephants and camels are here, larger, and apparently older than these same species of Asia. It has been generally thought that life came from Siberia to Alaska via a northwest passage. The mute tar pits would indicate that it was the other way around. Their sticky contents have preserved the bones through the ages, although all flesh, fur, hair, feathers and beaks have been destroyed. Besides the animals already mentioned, there are remains of such strange creatures as the giant ground sloth, the saber tooth tiger and an immense extinct bird with a nine foot spread of wings. To say nothing of pre-historic bison, bear, wolves, deer, and foxes that closely resemble the present form of these animals. It is believed that thirsty animals went there to drink, the oil deposits probably keeping water on the surface, when the surrounding country was dry. These were trapped in the sticky mass. The more they struggled the deeper they sank. Carnivorous animals attracted by the scent of easy prey pounced upon the struggling victims and were themselves sucked into the lakes of tar. These pits are located in Hancock park, a 28% acre tract presented by the owner, Col. G. Allen Hancock, to Los Angeles. Here is the old La Brea ranch house built by the original settlers. Eventually a museum is to be erected on the ground to house the reconstructed skeletons of these pre-historic monsters. Many of these now make an impressive display at the Los Angeles County Building at Exposition Park. One of these is the Imperial elephant with its enormous tusks and a baby elephant with a broken leg. Bones from the pits have been shipped to various museums throughout the world. They offer interesting information of life in the earth's ice era. The pools themselves are small oval depressions fenced with flat shale-like stone brought from Calabases. None of them are very deep, varying from six to thirty-five feet. From the last the skeletons of fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOSSIL HALL, LOS ANGELES MUSEUM elephants and ten mastodons were taken. From the fact that much wood was mixed up with the bones, it would indicate that the country was heavily timbered at that time. From the first came the only human skull?probably that of a lost Indian. Stone artifacts and the bones of numerous small animals similar to what we have now, would indicate that it was of much later date. No human life is indicated at the time of the pre-historic monsters. NE of the largest collections of extinct mammals found at Rancho La Brea was excavated from pits 61-67 fused into a single lake. Much of the material was well preserved. In 61 asphalt pockets varied in size from one to ten cubic yards. Greatest depth reached was about twenty feet. About 250 skulls were obtained: mostly dire wolf and saber-toothed cat. Associated types included coyote, great lion-like cat, horse, deer, large grazing ground sloth and smaller browsing ground sloth. 271 well preserved skulls were taken from pit 67. These included most of the types listed above, as well as bison. In both pits remains of young camels were of frequent occurrence. Work at these sites was carried on by the L. A. Museum from Sept. 17, 1914, to June 21, 1915, Years ago the asphalt was being shipped to San Francisco for commercial purposes. When being compressed, the bones were removed as being unusable. When viewed by Dr. Merriam of the University of California at Berkeley he recognized them as being of inestimable scientific value. When scooped up out of the sticky mass the bones of many different animals are mixed up together. These are sorted and complete skeletons are assembled from them. Given a bony framework, an anatomist can tell just how an animal looked when alive. T the Los Angeles Museum in Exposition park, there is a hall devoted to these reconstructed creatures. The ancient horse and buffalo had heads larger than those now living. The lion is bigger and more powerful than the African variety ASPHALT DEPOSITS CORROBORATE today. As is also the dire wolf of the Neanderthal. Foxes, rabbits and antelope are similar to those of the present. Here in a glass case is the lone man's skull, preserved in the tar when those of his compatriots have long since returned to dust. Most interesting are the extinct giant and smaller ground sloth, believed to have come from South America; and the Saber toothed tiger which gained its sustenance by sinking its long tusk into the neck of its victim, and sucking its blood. Out in the park where the pits are a group of statuary has been built of cement by F. E. R. A. Workers. It shows the figure of a buffalo lying on its side in the asphalt. A saber toothed tiger is devouring it. Nearby the tiger's mate is fighting a giant ground sloth that has come to the pits to drink. This is the first of many animal groups designed to show life as it 249 existed there 50,000 years ago. One of the sculptures contemplated is a majestic group of Imperial elephants. Trees now grow in Hancock Park and the newer pools are fringed with cat-tails showing the presence of water near the surface. Here constantly the age old tragedy of the pits is re-enacted. Small rodents" and birds, seeking water, are sucked into the treacherous depths. A circus that put up its tents nearby had an elephant get down in the miry ground. By attaching chains to it and several of the other pachyderms, they finally succeeded in pulling it out. Three small boys had to be rescued from a swamp in a nearby field by the fire department. Another pool is now being dragged for the body of a young girl, who, suffering from a nervous breakdown, got lost in that vicinity. Children and commercial enterprises are barred from the park. SPRING By Grace Peterson To-day, I heard spring on the way, The lark carroling at break of day. To-day I felt spring in the air, The kiss of soft rain on my hair. To-day I saw a bit of spring, A crocus, and a blue-bird on wing. To-day I touched spring all around. I planted seed in soft warm ground. To-day I know that spring has come, For new buds quivered in the sun.