Martha By Irene C. McCullough MARTHA stood in the little stone doorway gazing out absently over the low rolling hills. The sun was lazily saying farewell to the world for another day and was pulling home the last few golden streamers that flitted in and out of the tiny valleys. "He seems tired, too," she mused. Martha was more tired than she cared to admit and also rather out of sorts. The day had been a long and strenuous one. The huge stone steps leading down to the flower invested arbor were immaculately clean. Two beautiful white pigeons were making love in the gnarled old olive tree. Several others were still arguing over a plentiful supply of bread crumbs Martha had thrown out to them a few moments ago. She glanced back into the kitchen. Everything there was spick and span, even the smooth boards on the floor shone like polished wood wherever they chanced to peep between the silky sheepskins. The brightly colored earthen vessels were setting proudly on the shelves and the copper and iron kettles were resting in their respective places, quite aware of the fact that the last rays of the setting sun were making their polished faces shine like silver and gold. The room did look enticing. Martha had the satisfaction of knowing that every nook and corner was painfully clean, but that did not seem to cheer her tonight.: "A clean hearth is the least of her 220 troubles," she said half aloud. "Tomorrow it will be the same, rush through her work, just half doing it so she can go and listen to him. I would like to go also but what kind of a house would we have if I rushed away too. The neighbors would soon cease to praise and follow our example as worthy housekeepers." Martha sat down on the wide old steps of the terrace. The sun had at last gone to rest, leaving the little village of Bethany to the evening shadows. The low rock houses with their flat roofs looked like small fortresses as they climbed to the top of the rolling hills. From here one could see the Mount of Olives which hid the city of Jerusalem from view. "That must be them now just coming over the top of the hill. Yes, I'm sure it is. Mary's hanging onto His arm as usual and drinking in every word He has to say as if it were the breath of life." Martha stopped, her last words startled her for a moment, but only for a moment, for the aroma of hot bread ready to be turned out made her hasten into the kitchen. The huge iron kettle hanging over the red coals needed stirring. It was steaming forth its savory story also. LEISURELY Mary and this man Jesus climbed up the steps to the wide open terrace where was set a dainty table all ready for the belated evening meal. Four places were made ready, for Martha loved Him very much and always had a place at the table for Him and a bed made ready for His coming. The two were so earnestly engaged RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in conversation that they did not notice Martha until she interrupted their serious interview with, "Lord, dost thou not care that my sister has left me to serve alone, clean the house and make ready for your coming?"" "Sister," exclaimed Mary, "pray let the house work wait for a short while. The days are few and far between that I can sit at the Master's feet and learn. I beg you be not angry, I will make amends as soon as he has to leave us again." Martha by now was too angry to heed the pleadings of her younger sister. Again she appealed to the Master. "Lord, bid her mend her ways and help me more." Jesus raised his sad eyes to Martha's angry face and said, 'Martha, Martha, thou art careful about many things but one thing is needful; and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." The deepened flush faded from Martha's beautiful face and a look of tenderness gradually took its place. Jesus continued. "Man can not live by bread alone but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." Night had settled over the little town of Bethany. A large white moon was trailing across the starlit dome. Under the gnarled old olive tree hung with spring blossoms sat this man Jesus, and kneeling at his feet were Mary, Martha and their brother Lazarus. Asking and receiving eternal truths. The food on the little stone table was still untouched. It had long ceased to send forth steaming, appetizing odors.