Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund Swedish Mission SOMETIME ago greetings from the Relief Society Board of the Swedish Mission reached the office. This board was organized under the Presidency of Elder Gustav W. Forsberg in September, 1933, and has continued in connection with the Mission President and the Presidency of the European Mission, to direct the affairs of the Relief Society. The saints extended a hearty welcome, and were eager to get the instructions in Relief Society activity and the educational program. This is one of the Missions where the Annual Dues have been successfully instituted, and the sisters are for the most part very willing and eager to support the organization. The following lines, quoted from the Vingaker Branch, are typical of the spirit of the Mission: "The sisters here send their hearty greetings to the Presidency of the Relief Society. It was an unforgettable Sunday for us all when we met with the Mission President. Words cannot express our gratitude for the labor of love our sisters are doing and for all the good teachings and valuable advice we, in our imperfectness, received. We will try to remember them and put them into practical use. We all talked about you last Sunday and we extend to you a hearty invitation to come again. I now know that each and every one of the sisters here gladly will pay their yearly Dues. May God abundantly reward your self-sacrificing labors...." It is easy to work where the spirit of the people is so fine. There are now fifteen branches organized in the Swedish Mission. The sisters are faithful and devoted, and regard it a pleasure and privilege to add their part toward making the Relief Society successful. German-Austrian Mission IMMEDIATELY following the holiday season came a beautiful description of the Christmas party which was held by the Relief Society in Berlin on Christmas Eve. The color-scheme of silver and white was carried out in all the decorations. On entering the hall where the party was held, one was greeted with the soft, mellow light of candles, and soft music suggested the beauty of the occasion. In one corner of the room stood a beautiful Christmas Tree, lighted with tallow candles, all snow-white. Bon-bons, nuts and candy were wrapped in silver wrappings. At the side of the tree stood a small table covered with a white cloth, with a centerpiece of pine boughs arranged in the form of a nest. From this rose four extra long white candles, with pine boughs decorated in silver trimmings. On each side of the room, extending the entire length, were two tables covered with white cloths and decorated with pine boughs and dainty vases. Small candles, alternating green and red supplied the light. People were seated round the tables facing the tree. When the beautiful sacred service began, the organ played "Silent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Night," and the sisters sang the beautiful words. The German saints know this beautiful carol by heart. Stories and poems, with appropriate music, constituted the program of the evening. On the table were extra candles, and as one burned down the sister nearest it replaced it with another. As the program closed the President of Relief Society stepped from the room and returned with her arms loaded with boxes for the L. D. S. Missionaries. Two beautiful young girls presented a Christmas playlet. The work of the Relief Society is progressing very satisfactorily and the saints in this Mission expressed their pleasure at the opportunity for work in this organization. Swiss-German Mission ROM the Swiss-German Mission comes this very fine summary of the work. The Relief Society in this Mission is progressing satisfactorily, and every effort is being made to make the educational program attractive and interesting. The women seem to enjoy the work very greatly in all the branches. This year the aim of the Relief Society is to have an organization in every branch where it is possible. Samoan Mission "THE annual reports coming into the office from every organization of Relief Society in the world, bring to us the realization of the -wide extent covered by our organization. The following report comes from Sister Agnes M. Sears, President of the Samoan Relief Society, who reports that the organizations are all progressing very satisfactorily and are fully organized. They are looking forward to the seventeenth of March, when a gathering of the sisters from all parts of the island will be held at Sauniatu, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD a most delightful time is anticipated. Canadian Mission FROM the Canadian Mission comes word from Sister Alice R. Rich, Mission President, who expressed her pleasure at the work of the Relief Society in this mission. Though some of the branches are very small, and the sisters widely scattered, it is marvelous to see how much effort they put forth to attend the meetings and carry on the work. The Work and Business Department has shown marked improvement in the past few months, and suggestions for this type of activity are gratefully accepted. The sisters of this mission take great pride in the wonderful Relief Society organization, and are happy to participate in the opportunities offered through the study courses. Mexican Mission A MOST delightful account of a tour through the Mexican Mission is made by Sister Anna H. Pratt, Relief Society Mission President. Conferences in most of the branches have been held. The program was made in advance by the Mission President and sent to the various branches to prepare. There were talks on Theology, Social Service and the best methods of interesting people in the Visiting Teachers? 265 work. These talks were made by the local Presidents, and were very well prepared. There were also choruses of Relief Society sisters who furnished fine music. The attendance at the special meetings was very excellent. In the City of Mexico district, three large conferences were held, at which the attendance ranged from sixty-one to ninety-four. The sisters seemed much more interested in the work than they were a year ago; this was indicated by the number of questions which were asked and the manifest interest in the work of the organization. Quoting from Sister Pratt's letter: "In Mexico City district we have a district presidency and their work has been splendid considering the time at their disposal. All our branches received special visits, some more than one, and they are doing some fine things in helping the sick and needy. The sisters are interested in the Work and Business Meetings. In some branches a yearly bazaar is held. It has been something of a problem to get the reports from the teachers, but the report blanks are mailed to the Presidents each month, and the secretaries are becoming more careful in their work. The work of the Relief Society is being felt in the blessing it is to the sisters, and those of the missions greatly appreciate the help of this fine organization. Rain By Ella J. Coulam April sheds so many tears Over pent-up joys and fears; She weeps when fragrant lilacs blow, With tears her daffodils bend low. Oh! Would that I could live as she And keep my soul as trouble free; For when her tears are spent, at last, Her cares are buried with the past.