THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.- KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Motto--Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine - President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L, Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez. K. Allen Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Vox. XXIII APRIL, 1936 No. 4 EDITORIAL April WHAT joy fills the being as one sees the green blades peep through the earth, the flowers burst forth with their riot of color, the trees appear decked in bloom. This year people are especially joyous for after years of short water Arbor ARBOR DAY owes its origin to J. Sterling Morton of Nebraska, a former Secretary of Agriculture of the United States. While the word arbor to America means a bower, to the Romans it meant a tree and so it is an appropriate title for this day when all over the United States many, many trees are planted. Before the inauguration of this day Nebraska was called "the treeless State" then it set the very first recorded tree-planting day when the State Board of Agriculture adopted a resolution by J. Sterling Morton designating the 10th of April for that purpose. In that year, 1872, more than a million trees were planted. This example was emulated by other states until now it is nationwide in its observance. Supplies the mountains are covered deep with snow, the earth is soaked as it has not been for years, times are growing better in the business world too, so with new hopes and bright prospects we hail the springtime. May its gladness fill every heart. Day The service of trees, it has been truly said, begins with the cradle and ends with the coffin. To an almost unimaginable extent this service continues throughout life. Houses, furniture, fences, fuel, frames and handles for, agricultural implements, wharves, boats and ships, rubber with all the uses to which it is put, gum, bark, cork, carriages, railroad cars and automobiles?how difficult it would be to make these without trees. Trees guard the sources of rivers, prevent floods, give shade and beauty. During the last few years many memorial trees have been planted. Pasadena calls her memorial trees her Hall of Fame. "Trees are monuments with a meaning, for they live gloriously just as did those for whom they were planted." Editor Assistant Manager