The Rainy Day Surprise Box By Virginia B. Jacobsen "WHAT can we do, Mother?" sighed three young voices on a rainy morning. It was too stormy to play outside, but little hands and minds must be kept busy or they are apt to get into mischief. What could I give them to do? I was frequently confronted with the same question on rainy days, convalescent days and other stay-at-home days. In dismay, I looked around for an answer to this perplexing, yet oft recurring problem. The children had an abundance of toys?as witness the confusion in the living room. From beneath the davenport peeked a small, red-cheeked, china doll; under the table was a bright blue ball; a half dozen marbles lay scattered hither and yon; a whole fleet of small cars and trucks threatened pedestrian traffic from front door to back. I can hear some of you say, "Why let the children scatter their playthings all over the house?" If you live in as small a house as mine, where the only possible play room is dreary and dark on dull stay-indoor-days, you are forced as I am to permit the children to play in the family living rooms. What a blessing it would be if every home could have a big sunny room in the most cheerful corner of the house where the children could play without upsetting the rest of the family. As I looked in dismay at my erstwhile tidy living room, an idea came to me?why not a Rainy Day Surprise Box? It would serve three purposes: First it would help to keep this scattered array of underfoot impedimenta from messing up my otherwise clean home; it would answer the oft recurring question, "What can we do?"; but more important to me at the moment, it would take care of my present urgent need. Preparing the Rainy Day Surprise Box would keep three little minds and six little hands busy this inclement day. MARSHALLING my young forces together, we went to work. It took but a moment of tactful explanation to completely win their whole hearted support. While I hunted up a good stout box to hold numerous smaller boxes, the three engrossed children started a systematic search for scattered toys. Everything was brought into one room. Each child brought his personal drawer in which he kept his own playthings. Toys of every description were all brought to the clearinghouse for the big event. Each child was given a choice of a few things he could keep out to play with at any time. There was much choosing and rechoosing before little minds were made up. Of course, doll beds and other large pieces of doll furniture, tricycles, scooters and such things did not enter into the program. Just the multitude of small toys were to be put into the Rainy Day Surprise Box. Drawers, cupboards, and the neighborhood grocery yielded a goodly supply of small boxes of tin, wood, and cardboard, of various sizes and shapes. After everything was gathered together, each child was assigned a collecting job. Even the two year old baby took great delight in picking out all the marbles and dropping them in a small screw-top can. (I was careful to use only those tin cans which did not have sharp edges to cut little fingers.) Paper dolls, valentines and such things were put in manila envelopes and properly labelled. These were then all placed in a flat box together. The large fleet of automobiles and trucks were stored in a stout cardboard garage. A bevy of small dolls were tucked cosily in a cheery Christmas-box-bed by two loving little hands. Perhaps the most interesting of all would later prove to be the miscellaneous box. In this box were stored odds and ends which really had no relationship to each other. But each article was something which the children loved to play with occasionally. There were little bottles, an aspirin box (empty of course), a ring box, a horn, a set of jacks, a ball or two, several small mechanical toys, and a few things never meant for toys but which were liked for some unknown reason. After everything was stowed away in its particular container, all of the boxes were neatly packed in the large box. The large Rainy Day Surprise Box was then placed on a closet shelf with the definite understanding that only Mother or Daddy would open it to take out a smaller box. What a difference this clearance made in the looks of play-drawers, and floors. There was no longer a multitude of small toys to be scattered around and left when interest in them waned. Even the children remarked how good it was not to have so many things around to make a mess. THE Surprise Box was soon forgotten as other interests presented themselves. But the first rainy day brought a joyous remembrance of the boxful of toys put away for just such an occasion. Each child was given a choice of one box. Two year old Tim was thrilled once again with his fleet of little cars. Five year old Nancy later said she had never had so much fun playing with her little dolls, and the paper dolls brought a new joy to the heart of seven year old Sally. AS each child neatly replaced his toys in the Rainy Day Surprise Box for another rainy day, Sally said, "Mother, we don't mind wet days when we have something new to play with. These things were new to us because we haven't played with them for so long." Games, puzzles, sewing sets, hammer-nail sets, spelling boards, and modeling clay took on new interest when they were brought forth on a sick-a-bed-days and rainy days. And so our problem of "What can we do" was answered in this simple little plan of the Rainy Day Surprise Box. COMING By Lydia Hall Cold winds are blowing 'round my home, The sun's forgot to shine, There's still some snow upon the ground But hope and joy are mine. For robin redbreast came today And sang a song of cheer "Cheer up, cheer up," he said to me, "Springtime will soon be here."