A Daily Storm By Eunice J. Gardner DO you have a storm each evening? If not, you are missing one of the most interesting phases of family life. I do not allude to any condition of the weather, nor yet to verbal storms which are prevalent in some households. This storm is in a class by itself. Those fortunate mothers who have experienced it in by-gone days, as well as those who are at present enjoying its daily tonic effect, will unanimously agree that it is refreshing and stimulating to the soul. One bright day in the early spring a dear friend spent an afternoon at my home. About 4:30 p. m. I remarked: "I am so glad we have enjoyed a confidential visit together without any interruptions. In a few minutes I expect my storm to come, and then privacy will be an impossibility." With a bewildered expression, she looked first at me and then at the blue sky overhead. "A storm, do you say? I've heard of a 'bolt from the blue,' but surely you aren't predicting a storm on a day like this!" she laughingly protested. At that moment we heard a merry whistle down the street. "Here comes the fore-runner of the storm," I explained as my sturdy fifteen-year-old scout came whistling up the sidewalk. The school bus had just returned from its daily trip to the high school in the neighboring town. "Really, my dear friend," I continued, "I have daily storms of varying degrees of intensity. But there is always a storm, for in our family we have the materials for all varieties. This boy I call my cyclone or tornado because he makes the most noise and starts the greatest number of projects. However, he isn't the violent, destructive kind of cyclone, but one who is full of vitality and original ideas and loves to make things hum. His older brother, who is away attending college, is more serene and serious, so I used to call him my breeze. Yet at times, when fired with some mighty purpose, the gentle breeze could suddenly become a hurricane." The three girls soon returned from school and joined the cyclone. My visitor could readily see why I called my vivacious thirteen-year-old daughter my whirlwind, and why the titles given the ten-year-old twins were gale and zephyr. My friend was one who loves and appreciates children. They quickly responded to her sincere and understanding attitude. She entered into their delightful plans and became as eager and enthusiastic as any one of the group. She left me regretting that she, a lover of children, was denied having a storm of her own. SOME days when you feel gloomy over a real or fancied slight you have received, and are ready to indulge in self-pity, that most destructive of indoor sports, think of your approaching storm and its many possibilities for diversion and happiness. Be prepared when it comes, so you won't appear bored or indifferent. Be ready to cooperate with your children and enjoy their companionship. Encourage them in their projects, and welcome their friends to come to your home to participate in their plans and enterprises. No woman need ever be lonely or sad very long if she has a daily storm to vary her activities. It is a blessed opportunity for mothers. Make the most of it.