NOTES FROM THE FIELD 409 tions existed under the most trying circumstances. They had no room anywhere that they could call their own. They had no funds, Prayer meetings were called, and the problem was put directly to the Lord for guidance, and from the darkness sprang the light. Women of foresight, of business training, and financial backing, such as Mrs. Jennie Thorley, came to the assistance of the two ward presidents, Mrs. Amy Leigh and Mrs, Caroline Schoppman. They borrowed money from the bank, determined to procure for their Society a home. They consulted the bishops about being allowed to meet together, and their request was granted. Both organizations functioned in every way as separate units except that they had their weekly meetings jointly. On July 28, 1916, the presidents of the two organizations, Mrs. Schoppman and Mrs. Elizabeth Haight, who succeeded Mrs. Leigh, met with the district school trustees to discuss the purchase 'of the discarded school building., Their bid of $2,000 was accepted and the first payment made in November, 1916. This was a happy day for the Relief Society sisters. They worked toward the realization of their dreams for a permanent home as unitedly and zealously as the Christian martyrs of old. The truth of the old maxim, "In unity there is strength" never had better proof. These determined women cleaned and renovated the entire building; furnished a room for* the Relief Society meetings by donating chairs and furnishings from their own homes. They made new curtains; sewed rags and had carpets woven. To help meet the first payment on the building, a Dutch Market of three days duration was held. The women loyally donated everything—vegetables, dried fruit and corn, canned fruit and vegetables, preserves, pastry of all kinds, cooked and cured meats, pickles, and candies of every delectable variety. The work was enormous, but the profit of $250 was balm to tired arms and aching feet. Quilts were always on hand for sale, and bazaars were given, which yielded large returns for the home-made carpets, rugs, quilts, aprons, clothing for children, and embroidered goods so loyally contributed by members of the organization. Rom banquets and cafeterias supervised by the Relief Society, $650 were realized. As these figures show, splendid organization, and cooperation as well as hard work, characterized the efforts of these women. But paying for the building was not the only large project of the sisters. Dwellings and apartments were much in demand to meet the rapid growth of Cedar City.. Here was an opportunity for the Society to serve the community and they did not hesitate. They spent $1,500 remodeling part of the building into two four-roomed apartments. They improved the main hall with a hardwood floor, and built an adjoining kitchen for convenience during banquets:' Rent from the apartments and generous contribution from the members soon paid for the building, the two organizations bearing the expense equally. By July, 1923, the Relief Society had sufficient '
 funds on hand to remodel the northeast corner into another fourroomed apartment, at the expense of $1,900; later a garage was erected for the convenience of tenants. Since the division of Cedar City into three wards, January 1, 1927, the Relief Society building has served as a home for the East ward on Tuesdays, the Third ward on Wednesdays, and forthe West ward on Thursdays. California Mission (Riverside Branch.). Although the Riverside Relief Society is only five years old, and has a'membership of only 24 members, the organization is active and vigorous. For a bazaar recently held the following articles were made: 14 quilts, 4 dozen tea towels, 1 layette, a number of rag rugs, and many beautiful pieces of embroidery and useful articles of clothing; $150 was disbursed for charity during the year, and $100 contributed to the chapel fund. The officers of the organization are: president, Mrs. Vilate McMurray; counselors, Mrs. Marell Carter and Mrs. Alice M. Mack; secretarytreasurer, Mrs. Rosetta Glazier. Blaine Stake (Shoshone Ward.) The Shoshone Relief Society, with a membership of 18, and with an average attendance of between 6 and 9, arranged and carried out a very successful celebration on Annual Day. There was an interesting and instructive program of 10 numbers, which was followed by games and refreshments. Over 100 were in attendance, many of whom were out of town guests. Mrs. Anna. Napper is the president of this Society. Blaine Stake Reorganized. The Blaine stake Relief Society was reorganized in April. 1927. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, who has made an enviable record as a stake president found it necessary to give up her work on account of pressing home duties, and she was honorably released with deep appreciation for her, excellent service. Mrs. Adamson, during her incumbency in office, was devoted to the Relief Society cause. She was progressive and. Forward looking, and was alert at all times—watching for any new development which might make the work more effective. At the same time she was appreciative of the traditions and past work of the organization, and placed great emphasis on its spiritual values and activities. Mrs. Mirtis Cooper, formerly a counselor to Mrs. Adamson, was appointed president to succeed the latter. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) SOME DOCTRINES OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION Seven doctrines of the Messianic Dispensation will be considered in this lesson. 1. The Doctrine of Pre-existence. Jesus was passing along the highway when he came to a blind beggar and someone asked the Master a question which gave evidence of a general belief in the pre-mortal existence of man. The question was: Who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Of course, the man could not in mortal life have committed a sin the penalty of which was blindness at birth, The answer made to this question by the Christ was an acceptance of the doctrine of premortal existence. The student will be greatly benefited and in most instances spiritually thrilled by thoughtful reading of John 9.: 2. The Doctrine of Reincarnation. This doctrine seems to have had hold of some minds from the fact that when Jesus asked his disciples the question, "Whom do men say that I, the Son of man, am?" and they said, "Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias or one of the prophets." Seemingly, the Lord dismissed the doctrine of reincarnation by a further question which inspired the immortal answer of Peter, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matt. 16:13- 18.) 3. The Doctrine of the Resurrection. The resurrection was a matter of general belief except among the Sadducees. When Martha said to Jesus, "I know that he shall rise again, in the resurrection, at the last day (John 11:24) she gave expression to the belief prevalent among the common people. The crafty Sadducees sought to entrap Christ with the question as to which of the seven husbands should claim the woman in the hereafter. In answer to their question, the Savior set forth two doctrines, first, the organized existence of man after death, and second, that obligations entered into for time only are not binding in eternity. (Mark 12:18-27.) Evidently the disbetievers in the resurrection were rather numerous, otherwise Paul would not have had occasion to write. That striking discourse on the resurrection found in I Corinthians 15:29. 
 4. The Doctrine of Tithing. The doctrine of tithing was one of general belief at the time of the Savior, and one approved by him. In his rebuke to the Pharisees he commended their tithepaying but discountenanced their expectation of getting into heaven through the observance of one law only. (Matt.| 23:23.) 5. The Temple and Temple Ordinances. The belief in temples and temple ordinances was prevalent and approved by Jesus. He was blessed in the temple in his infancy. Read the beautiful story recorded in Luke 2:25-38. In his boyhood he spoke in the temple to the amazement of the learned theologians. For the setting and the substance of a wonderful story of a superyouth and obedient son, study Luke 2:46-50. He declared the temple to be a spiritual sanctuary, a house of prayer, and with irresistible power and authority drove out the mercenary invaders. Within the temple walls he fearlessly proclaimed his mission, preached the gospel to the multitude, and in an almost miraculous manner revealed the secret sins of men who sought to entrap him.. (John 7:28-9. John 8:1-10.) 6. The Doctrine of Vicarious Work for the Dead. The doctrine must have been believed in or Paul, the most scholarly theologian of the dispensation, would not'have written, "If the dead rise not at all, why are they then baptized for the dead?" I Corinthians 15:29, 7. The Doctrine of Generosity. We are indebted to the Apostle Paul for the words of Jesus: "It is more blessed to give than to receive." The whole life of Jesus was an example of the application of this doctrine and behind it stands the eternal principle that we grow to love in the direction of our willing, cheerful giving, whether it be of service or of means. The power to give is greater than the power: to receive. The joy of giving is more exquisite than the joy of receiving. The effects of giving are more lasting than the effects of receiving. (Acts 20:35.) Questions and Problems 1. Give scriptural evidence that the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. 2. Correlate the doctrine contained in Mark 12:25 with Doctrine and Covenants, section 132:15-16. 3. When and where did Jesus declare that tithing ought to be paid? 4. What is the unmistakable evidence that Jesus spoke to the people: in the outer court of the temple, or what we might style the temple grounds of Jerusalem? 5. Give evidence that Jesus approved of temples and used them., 6. Give your personal testimony as to the relative joygiving value of giving and receiving, or illustrate by a story. 7. On what principle of growth is the doctrine of giving based?