Wheat Values. By Prof. F. R. Arnold, Utah Agricultural College. Wheat has many values. From time immemorial it has furnished us with the staff of life. In the opening years of this century the growing and marketing of wheat furnished Mr. Frank Norris with an epic background for two of the best American novels ever written, The Octopus and The Pit. And here in the State of Utah wheat has a sentimental and economic value that it acquires
nowhere else. The 200,000 bushels stored by the women of the Relief Society in their granaries throughout the state, constitute a community reserve force that should be a source of no small pride to the prudent housewives who have amassed so much wealth through the slow years. This wheat reserve means first to them the trust reposed in them by President Brigham Young. 'T want the sisters to save the wheat," he said. ''They are the careful housewives. The men would speculate with it." And as so the sisters began working faithfully to save the wheat against a time of famine. Every year the famine specter has grown less terrible and threatening but still the saving is going on. In Paradise this year every woman gave a bushel. In Wellsville alone, they now have 4,000 bushels in reserve. Every one who sees the granaries of the wards must think of the loving labor and prudent foresight that have made them possible, since in pioneer times the sisters would often go gleaning themselves to get the precious grain for the store house. Many people argue nowadays that all these stored-up bushels of wheat are just so much unproductive capital. These 200,000 bushels would suffice to plant an equal number of irrigated acres. They would seed twice that number of dry-farm acres, that is, one-fifth of the 2,000,000 undeveloped dry-farm acres of the state. And as dry-farm wheat may produce as high as 62 bushels to the acre, the increase of the Relief Society capital might easily be higher than 1,000 per cent. These economical people also say that war times will soon bring dollar wheat and therefore the Relief Societies have a capital of $200,000. which at six per cent could easily bring in $12,000 yearly for the poor, leaving the capital untouched. All of this is perfectly feasible, but the would-be manipulators of the Relief reserves forget that every business needs a reserve, that Utah communities are business propositions and find in the Relief Society granaries a community fund, a protective fund that is of inestimable value against possible evils. Wheat is not always so easy to come by in spite of the ever multiplying railroads and the ever increasing wheat acreage in the United States and in 
 Canada. One summer, six or seven years ago, a Jewish wheat buyer from Boise came into Cache Valley. It was just before the summer harvest and wheat was unpurchasable in Boise. He was surprised to find that the elevators in Cache Valley had wheat in plenty, and when he found they were holding it for the Relief Societies, he exclaimed in genuine extra-Zionic ignorance, "What are Relief Societies?" And on being enlightened, he declared, "They are the grandest institution that ever was. I wish we had them in Boise." And now every time he meets a certain Cache Valley miller storage he inquires conditions of the respectfully the well about Just Relief Societies. now being and he would find no Relief wheat in the elevators, for the order has gone forth for each Society to withdraw its wheat from all possible speculation in the elevators and to guard it carefully in its own ward granary against any possible famine that may result from the European war. In past years it has been found more convenient to handle the grain in the elevators than in the ward granaries, as the wheat has to be "renewed" every two or three years, that is, replaced by fresh grain. In this way the Societies have often sold grain for seed to poor or improvident members of the community but have usually received their wheat back at harvest time with a peck interest per bushel. This there is a certain part of the Utah grain which never gets into the grain exchanges of the eastern cities such as Minneapolis and Chicago, for the marketing of wheat is perfectly organized and in no other commodity does the middleman make so little profit. These big exchanges are like banks. Wheat is always there and buyers prefer to deal with them rather than with the farmer as the exchange assumes all risks and responsibilities. They do permit dealing in futures which the United States government look's upon as legitimate exercise of human ingenuity, leaving it to the 'members of the exchange to guard against the excessive manipulating and cornering of grain by any one member. In most exchanges the majority of the members do not sanction such dealings as they themselves buy grain much as they would buy real estate and wait for a natural, legitimate demand to advance the price. These exchanges get daily and hourly grain news from all over the world, all of which forms a. basis for prices, but it is safe to say that the wheat of the Relief Societies never forms part of the business data of the speculative wheat buying world. Guarded by spiritual protection and by the thrifty economy which has always characterized the men and women of Utah, this wheat reserve is a permanent, increasing guarantee against famine and want, and is also of incalculable value in keeping up that serene peace 'of future is safe mind which comes only to those who know that their Genealogy. In answer to the circular letter sent out by the Genealogical Committee of the General Board, we have received some interesting and suggestive reports. Chief among them is the report from Provo, Utah, which is so excellent and brief that we print it herewith entirely. The Genealogical Committee of that stake, which has been engaged in the cause for several years, has certainly done a remarkable work in this Sister direction. The Committee consisted of Sister Nellie Taylor, Fanny McLain, Sister Inez Knight Allen, and Sister Hickman. There is a new Chairman appointed, as will be seen by the letter sent from that stake. San Luis, Snozvilake, Maricopa Stakes. From San Luis, Snowflake, and Maricopa stakes come excellent reports, considering the distance these stakes are located from headquarters. Mrs. Maria J. Harrison, of Manassa, San Luis stake, tells us that the chief work done by this stake along this line, has been to prepare individual records. No excursions, of course, have been taken to any temple, but they have followed the lessons in the Bulletin, and their principal success has been in awakening an interest in the Society for genealogical work. Sister Harrison reports the need of a teacher to give instructions in that distant in Snowflake stake, Sister Lulu J. Smith says that they have followed the Bulletin lessons very carefully, in every ward, except in the Society which has a number of members who do not belong to the Church. We might suggest to Sister Smith that if the non-members are like most people in the world, they would work harder at genealogy than our own people do. This stake also feels the need of a competent teacher. The Maricopa stake is reported by President Mamie Clark, and Sister Clark has much the same things to say that the other Arizona stakes have said. She remarks that she feels herself that the work is very essential, and that it is a vital part of our religion, but that there is a very small percentage of our sisters writing genealogical records in that stake. We have suggested to all of these stakes that they unite in sending a request to the Genealogical Society of Utah for a good teacher, which would not cost the Relief Society anything, as the Genealogical Society would bear that expense, except for the entertainment of the teacher when in the different stakes. In this way, splendid results can be obtained, and these distant stakes can be reached with a minimum expense to the Genealogical Society itself. 
 We will give other reports as they come into this office from time to time. Provo, Utah, Dec. 5, 1914. Utah Stake. Dear Sisters: A committee of three members has been appointed in each ward to carry on the genealogical work. These three members from each of twenty-one wards in our Stake meet in a separate section on our Union Meeting day (the second Sunday each month) . At this Union Meeting the lesson for the month is presented by the Stake Committee, and is later presented in the ward by the Ward Committee. We have succeeded in getting good workers, the majority of whom are young women. We need and must have older sisters to preserve the spirit of the work; but younger women are better adapted to the detail work necessary in record keeping. Our greatest difficulty is to get more interested in this line of study, although this department averages well with the others. We have emphasized the family record. We believe in going from the known to the unknown, and if people will arrange what they know, and have it in proper order they have a starting point from which to trace new data. We have in the last year sold and assisted in beginning four hundred and twenty-five of the McAllister Records, and at our monthly Union Meeting a formal report from each ward is given. This report gives the membership, the attendance, whether increase or decrease, the subject discussed, the records being handled, and anything special done in each ward. Our greatest success has been our excursions to the Temple. These have not been regular, so far, a special date being set each time. We have limited each ward to six people for endowment work, with twenty baptisms for the dead, and sometimes it has run over this number. In the last year we have had three excursions to the Temple. Endowment work has been done for four hundred. There have been thirty living families sealed, wives to husbands, and children to parents. The following is the report from one ward: baptisms, two hundred thirty-six; endowments, seventy; sealing, forty, sealing children to parents forty-two. On these excursions the Stake Committee receives all records, and gives out the tickets for the names of the dead, so that individuals go at once to the Meeting Room, and no time is lost in the Recorder's Office at the Temple. Respectfully, Olive S. Bean, Chairman.