The Mission of Saving Grain. From Remarks by President Emmeline B. Wells, at the Relief Society Conference, 50 Oct., 1914. At this present time in the history of the world and in the history of our people, it seems necessary to talk about temporal wants, including the saving of grain; and I have been asked before this conference commenced, to speak of the mission given to me in this work. First of all, I want to say that when I was quite a young woman, I was at one time very ill, and Sister Eliza R. Snow came to me. With me was Mother Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who, in connection with another sister, helped to prepare the first woman in the Relief Society for burial, and who was counselor to Emma Smith in the presidency of the Society; she helped to lay out for burial the first sister that died after the Society was organized,— a sister recently from England, whose daughter was one of the wives of President Brigham Young. Sister Eliza was secretary of the first society; and when she administered to me, she gave me a blessing which I wrote down at the time, and she^ said: "You will live to do a work that has never been done by any woman, since the Creation." These were her words. Well, one day toward the end of September, 1876, President Young sent for me to come over to his office. Brother George Reynolds, his private secretary, brought the message. The Exponent office at that time was on the corner where the Alta Club is now, so that I had only a little way to go. When I went over, the president said: "I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain. The brethren tell me, that the sisters want them to sell the grain to buy bonnets and other finery." In those days we did not wear so many hats, you know, nor silk dresses, silk ribbons, and the like. President Young continued: "I want the sisters to save the grain, and I want to give you a mission. I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon this subject." 
 I felt very timid, and was just about trembling, when I went to talk the matter over with President Wells. He was sitting out on the porch of his own home where hundreds of you have seen him, where the Templeton now stands. I told him what President Young had said, and added: "You will have to help me." He replied, "I am not going to help you; you can do it yourself." I will say, though, that I went first to Sister Eliza R. Snow; and she said she couldn't help me, — it was given to me to do. Finally President Wells consented that after I wrote the editorial, he would look over it. And this is the way the grain movement started among the Relief Societies. We began that very year, and though we were laughed at, we did buy grain, — the Relief Society did; I did not do it myself — the Relief Society gave money, and grain was bought that year, and stored in President Wells' barn, where the Co-op is now, back of the old home on the corner. We had quite a quantity stored that year; and the sisters also began in the several stakes of Zion that had begun to be organized. I think there were fourteen stakes organized, previous to President Young's death. In all these stakes the sisters began, and that work has been kept up until the present time. Yet we have been ridiculed more over this than over any other one thing in the Relief Society. I think that you can all realize that President Young had the gift of prophecy, that he knew what he was doing, that he knew what he was advising. Further than that, whether or not it was known to him, it was known to the Lord that I would live to the old age I have. At any rate, I have lived to this day to tell you this story about the beginning of the saving of grain, and to counsel you to be diligent this year, not only in saving of wheat, but in the saving of everything else that can be saved and preserved in the way of provisions. I think we all have ribbons enough, may be, to last us for a little while, and scarfs enough, and while perhaps we have not all kinds of clothing enough, we have a "good deal," and we can all do something more for the saving of grain if we do a little less of some other things. For we are not only to save grain, but we are to save everything else that can be kept for a time of need, and take good care of it, and get the best advice we can to help us to do it. The Presidency of the Church will take care of all the grain in the elevators, that the sisters choose to arrange for; and my advice is to buy grain with the money that you have on hand. First of all, you should consult with the presidency of your own stake, and the bishops of the wards, and get such advice from them as they see fit to give. I hope we have not been careless; do try and see what you can save, in the way of grain and other things, and use what money you feel disposed to use for this THE MISSION OF SAVING GRAIN. 49 purpose, by the consent and approval of the authorities of your own stake and your own ward. I think you should have some expert help in buying the grain, because, in the first editorial on the subject, published in the Woman's Exponent, in October, 1876, appears a paragraph which President Young dictated to be added. President Young, George Reynolds and myself, I think, were all who were in the office at that time, all are dead now except myself. President Young dictated and Brother Reynolds wrote that last paragraph in the article that I am speaking about, in which he says: "The brethren are to assist the sisters in this work, both in gathering and preserving the grain," meaning places to put it. I think that he even said, "in building granaries." I hold a receipt from the tithing office here in this city for quite a large quantity of grain that was stored in that early day. Of course, it has been changed over and over again. The receipt is signed by Joseph Kingsbury, who was a clerk of Bishop Hunter's. Bishop Nibley has since seen the receipt and he says that Joseph Kingsbury's name is as good as any bishop's. Now, whether this was the peculiar mission to which Sister Eliza referred in blessing me— that I should live to do a work that had never been done by any woman since the Creation— I may leave you to say. In any event, the work that has been done in the saving of grain is unusual and unique for women. Joseph in Egypt was the only one that saved and stored grain for a great people, so it may be said that Sister Eliza's prophecy has come to pass, as have many other prophecies that she uttered. We add here an interesting extract from the Era, giving the history of the Koford wheat which is now used quite extensively in this state: "In the year 1870, a mound in a field, near Payson, Utah, was excavated by Amasa Potter, an intelligent farmer residing then and now in that town. He found two skeletons, some implements and pottery, and a stone box. In the box were a few grains of wheat Those that were bright he planted, and raised a few head of the wheat. He planted this seed the following season, and raised about a bushel and a half. This was distributed among a few of the farmers, some of it being sent to the Department of Agriculture at Washington, together with the relics which were purchased for the Bureau of Ethnology. The wheat was found to be far superior as dry-land wheat to other varieties, producing, according to the statements of those who experimented with it, about eight bushels to the acre more than any other. — Edward H. Anderson, Editor, Improvement Era, November, 1907.