[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: On the Trails of the Old Carroll]
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab
By Elsie C. Carroll
CHAPTER VIII
AS the day of the rodeo drew near, more and more contestants gathered on the Buckskin mountain. Tents sprang up along the tree-bordered foothills of Pleasant Valley. Russell ordered extra supplies. Eating stands were erected at various points near the roping corrals. Additional waitresses and hotel flunkies were hired. Then spectators began to arrive. Families from towns in northern Arizona and southern Utah had come to make the annual rodeo the occasion for their yearly outings. They came prepared to stay for several days or weeks. Rangers and road workers drifted in from various points of the mountain. Sporting fans from near and far gathered. There were lively betting and speculations. Detailed programs of the affair had been posted for weeks, and each day new entrants signed up. Besides the usual contests such as roping, milking, bronco-busting and so on, there were to be novelty features and spectacular exhibitions by experts barred from the regular contests. Three events were scheduled for women, and Steve encouraged Helen to enter the contest for roping and tying calves. The day before the celebration, cars streamed into the park at all hours. Others came early the next morning. By noontime thousands of people filled the wide flat in front of the V.T. Hotel. It was all new to Helen. She was as excited as a child.
ON the evening preceding the rodeo, Russell staged a special program. Entertainers from the Grand Canyon Lodge and from Bryce Canyon came with unique stunts. He had imported a band and two dance orchestras, and served free refreshments. When Helen went into the hall that evening, she saw Bernice Hawley sitting by Fred Grosbeck. They were talking earnestly, and, Helen surmised, about her. She remembered Bernice's inquiry about Lon Dean, and her statement that her father had been looking for him. Helen had told Steve of this, but she had not confided to him her suspicion that Hawley himself was in some way connected with the cattle stealing. She was unable to understand just how this could be, but her feeling persisted. Hawley had been absent from the Park for several days. He'd gone to Salt Lake City, presumably, for his wife. But tonight he was back again without her. Helen couldn't recall having seen him since that night he had gone away with the red-haired stranger.
Seating herself in a corner, she watched the gathering crowd. Presently Mrs. Carter came and sat beside her. "Have you heard the latest news about Tess Morley? They say she's bought silk shirts for all the contestants. So everybody will get a prize whether they win or not. And after the rodeo she's going to have everybody out to her place?that means the men of course?for a big bon-fire party with drinks and sandwiches?and," Mrs. Carter leaned nearer and cupped her hand more closely about her mouth, "they say she's having a lot of girls come out?to help her."
Such gossip was so distasteful that Helen excused herself on the pretext that she had promised the waitresses she would help them make up for a stunt they were to give on the program. As she passed Wood Russell, she commented upon the crowd. "Yes," he beamed, "this is the big time of the year for us. We don't get so much of the regular tourist trade as they do at the Lodge, but this sort of evens things up in a business way, and it's great fun besides."
As they stood talking, Steve entered. He was handsome in new boots, trousers, and bright shirt. Helen tried to imagine how he would look in evening clothes. He would be splendid, she thought, with his striking dark face, and his tall well-built body; but he wouldn't seem quite the same as in his picturesque cowboy costumes. No wonder Bernice was infatuated. He crossed to her as Russell went to greet some in-coming guests. "Have you seen Uncle Billy?" he asked. "No. Is he here? It's ages since I saw him. Did your thieves declare a moratorium?" "Nobody would miss the rodeo for the sake of a bunch of cattle," Steve laughed. 'Now the calves have disappeared there isn't so much danger, though some years I have lost bunches of young steers, and I have a good bunch there at the ranch all rounded up. I've left Lon and two other boys out there, but of course Wood couldn't get along without Uncle Billy tonight. I may ride back after awhile." "Lon? Is he able to be at work? What did he tell you?" "Nothing. He can't remember what happened before he was sick. Isn't that irony, when he might be able to clear up this mess?" "But won't his memory come back?" "Possibly. Doc says it happens sometimes?with a shock or something that connects with the accident that caused the lapse. But it seems so hopeless. I wish I could forget the whole darned business." "There's a great crowd here, isn't there?" Helen said; "and everyone seems happy and excited. Doesn't Bernice Hawley look sweet?" "Oh, yeah." He was totally indifferent. "I can't understand why you treat her as you do. Everyone knows how wild she is about you. It's too bad she doesn't spunk up and make you jealous by flirting with someone else. If she'd do that, maybe you'd be falling over yourself to be with her, like that young flier." "I wish she'd try it." Steve's eyes rested on Helen's profile as she stood watching the scene before them. She turned and caught a glance she had never seen in his eyes before. It sent her own pulses racing. He quickly shifted his gaze to a group near the fireplace. Just then she caught sight of Uncle Billy and rushed to him.
IN another moment Wood Russell mounted the platform and the program commenced. As the great crowd in the long room sang "Out Where the West Begins," and "When It's Springtime in the Rockies," Helen thrilled with a feeling that she belonged here; that these were her people. She recalled occasions in her childhood when she had experienced terrible alien sensations?feelings of homesickness for something she had never known. She used to think it was a longing for her mother, or for her father who was not much more than a dream in her life. But tonight she felt that she must have been hungering in those desolate moments for the perfect satisfaction of this moment.
