[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: The Home]

the home as conceived in a conservative past, are doomed to disappear.
Judging from statistics on crime and divorce daily presented in newspapers and periodicals, one is sometimes tempted to believe such is the case. However, there occasionally arises a clear voice facing the facts and having optimism for the future. Abba Hillel Silver, in his book, Religion in a Changing World, says, "To form a judgment of the average American home based solely on the numerous instances of impermanence and infidelity which obtrude themselves upon our attention or are chronicled in the public press, is altogether unwarranted. The millions of American homes are still sound.
Love and fidelity and the spirit of self-sacrifice have not yet entirely vanished from the dwelling places of our people and around millions of firesides the sanctities of life still hover.
There are still vast reserves of spiritual and moral strength in the American home and one need not anticipate its early liquidation.... On the other hand, it would be the sheerest folly-to assume that all is well with the American home. All is not well with the American home. The American home is in ferment. It is passing through the preliminary stages of a new adjustment made necessary by the new conditions of life, and like all adjustments, it is attended by pain, suffering, and tragedy. The American home is being attacked by new social, economic, and intellectual forces, and it has not yet perfected the strategy with which to meet the new conditions." 'While admitting certain changes are always necessary to meet new circumstances even in the home, the Church of Jesus Christ oi Latter-day Saints still teaches the sanctity of marriage ties and the reverence for womanhood as taught by the Christ. We are in thorough sympathy with the words of a certain English writer when he says, "There is no such championship of the right of woman to an equal place in the sun in her own right as that of Jesus, and, if we knew the whole truth, we should see that He is not only nearer the ideal, but also nearer the real facts of the case. For the Christian, at least, the thing that counts is a woman's soul; the salvation of the man who loves her depends upon his respect for what is eternal in her." 3.
Christ and the Samaritan Woman.
Some of the most charming episodes in the Gospels have references to the Savior's talks with women.
Therein is pictured His appreciation of the worth of their souls even when they themselves were known to be sinners. One of these incidents is given in the Gospel of John (4:5-42) where He is presented talking with the Samaritan woman at the well. The Christ and His disciples, hungry and spent, reached Jacob's well near a place called Sychar. The disciples went to the town to buy something to eat, leaving him sitting at the well, While thus preoccupied, a Samaritan woman came to draw water and the Savior asked her for a drink. The woman was astonished, for as the story indicates, "Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans." But she found the Christ to be no ordinary Jew. He broke down, at one stroke, the false barrier that prevented the ordinary normal association of two of God's children. Thus He paved the way for a Gospel conversation that showed his love of her eternal soul. He knew the woman was a sinner but she was reminded of it in a most gentle way.
There is no instance in the Gospels in which the Christ chides a woman with the severity he used with certain men. 4. Mary Chose the Good Part. Luke 10:38-42 gives us a most unusual picture of the Savior at the home of two women, Mary and Martha.
Mary sat enraptured at his feet and "heard his word" while Martha bustled around "cumbered with much serving." Finally Martha could stand the apparently unequal situation no longer, and, approaching the Savior she said, "dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me." To which the Savior answered, "Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her."
Many interesting things have been said about this incident, but the thing of most interest to us about it is that the Christ did not regard women as servants merely intended to look after men's material comfort and well-being. He was interested in them as human personalities whose spiritual well-being was the prime essential. Questions 1. Can you find any Christian justification for the discrimination against women oftimes met with in industrial and even educational institutions? 2.
What outstanding leaders in the United States have led the way in protecting the rights of women? 3.
What needs yet to be done in the United States before women fully win the rights which a Christian way of life demands for them? 4.
What did the Prophet Joseph Smith do to improve the lot of women?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstance permit.) 1, Examine carefully Luke 8:19- - 21 and John 2:1-4, Some have said these passages show that the Christ
LESSON DEPARTMENT 51 

  was disrespectful to His mother. Cite scripture that would indicate such was not the case. 2. Read John 19:25-27. What side of the Christ's nature does this incident portray? Who was the "disciple'? Why was Peter or James not chosen? 3. Investigate the teachings of President Brigham Young and President Joseph F. Smith in regard to the treatment of women. Teacher's Topic (For March) Tue House Burtt Upon a Rock Matt. 7:24-27. 'THIS is not regarded as a parable by all writers on the subject, but it has such a strong appeal and presents such a fine opportunity for a good lesson that it is being included in this group of lessons. It comes at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus said to the people: "Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it." This comparison was especially apt for Palestine as the sudden and furious storms sweep down into the low valleys. The barren hillsides were contributive to floods and extra care needed to be taken in building in order to withstand wind and water. The hearers of the parable had no difficulty in making the application which Jesus intended. If we are thoroughly familiar with the truths of the Gospel and have a strong faith in its principles and teaching we can more easily withstand the shocks of adversity and misfortune that come to us. Christ emphasized the "doing" as well as the "hearing" of the word. To hear the Gospel and do as it teaches makes for strength and security. We should read the Sermon on the Mount to determine to what extent we are as "the wise man which built his house upon a rock."
LESSON DEPARTMENT 53