[Vol24 | January 1937 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: The Work]
the work of an artist? If so, why; if not, why? 5. Do you feel Lincoln's character in his parting address at the station in Springfield, Illinois?
Most of his biographers say he was sometimes very sad. Is there evidence of it in the farewell speech? 6. If you deem it important that a prose writer lend interest to his writing, would you say that Sandburg has met with success in this particular? Did you cling to the book after you had commenced it? Did you wish to read more? 7. Do you feel that Lincoln was rewarded in later life for his tremendous industry and upright living? Do you think he was rewarded for his trust in God? 
  Social Service (For Fourth Week in March) Lesson 3
Tue SERVICE OF GOVERNMENT Text: Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross: Chapter XV. VERY citizen of good intenentions should have some knowledge of the world he lives in as to its political, social, and economic organization if his influence on the course of events is to be intelligent and constructive.
Since the close of the World War in 1918 sweeping changes have occurred in the governments of the major nations of the world. In some countries the old order has entirely passed away and present sovereign power functions in an entirely new manner. In other nations changes as complete are now taking place with marked rapidity.
Much of the political ideology of a few years ago is either obsolete or woefully inadequate as a basis for meeting present situations.
With changing conditions, duties and responsibilities of citizenship are altered.
Since the natural tendency of changing circumstances is to bring about an evaluation of national ideals, the soundness of these ideals is often brought into question by the general public.
They are weighed and considered, and often re-evaluated in the light of the changing scene.
While the problem is as broad as human experience, itself, the present lesson proposes the direction of attention to the following purposes: 1. To view government as an agent of social stability.  2. To encourage intelligent participation in government.
That form of government known as democracy was the predominant mode of political organization at the beginning of the present century. Perhaps Russia under the Tsars and a few Asiatic States were the only nations not following its basic principles in some form or other. The common phrase justifying the World War, "To Make the World Safe For Democracy," was the motivating power for drawing millions of young men into its ranks.
Democratic nations have fostered extensive suffrage, law-making by representation, popular education, a careful enumeration of safeguards for individual liberty, an elaborate system of checks and balances between the people and the government, and a high degree of economic freedom in the matter of earning a living.
Moderate policies rather than extreme measures, discussion rather than force, as a means of solving problems developed a fair degree of social stability.
Such ideals consider the individual of more importance than the state.
Recent years have brought about much searching criticism of democratic institutions.
Conclusions have not been drawn without a certain amount of agitation and turmoil to the status of democracies.
Encouragement of individual initiative, sometiines with special countenance to the more able, has developed a markedly unequal distribution of wealth. At times unscrupulous persons have been sustained in making unwarranted profits.
Large corporations and influential business men
LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 have exerted undue influence on political power, and have, in return, reaped the reward of the favored. In the United States "pressure groups" and "lobbies" maintain organized activities to influence governmental policies to selfish ends. The marked technical developments in science and mechanical means of production has completely changed the old order which confronted a man, seeking to earn his daily bread.
Unemployment is everywhere in the midst of a productive organization capable of supplying people with an ample living. As people look to government to help them out of an undesirable situation, sound judgment and a balanced point of view is imperative to the development of a wholesome attitude which will take into consideration that level of society which finds itself less fortunately situated in life. The ideals of government, which provide for all the people should be recalled, and then, when present practices are re-evaluated in the light of current conditions, legislation which is in keeping with a truer spirit of democracy may be brought about. It must be recognized that ideals of government require new application to accompany the changes which occur in society. The demands upon government to promote social stability are probably more pressing and urgent today than they have been in any past generation. The text points out the many fields into which the activities of government have extended in essential regulation of business and individual well being. We do not question the exercise of such functions because past experience has demonstrated the value of such actions. It is when new fields of activities, new regulatory functions, and new applications are advocated that we need to weigh their values in the light of established ideals. President Hoover's Research Committee reports in Recent Social Trends, 'Problems of governmental reorganization and functioning constitute a major question of adaptation and adjustment. It cannot. Be supposed that the present procedures will be able to deal effectively with the complicated types of problems certain to arise in the future, indeed already upon us. Specifically, the problems of government turn about the reorganization of areas, mechanisms, and authority; the recruitment of the necessary personnel for administration and leadership; adaptation of the techniques developed through the social sciences; the elimination of spoils and graft; the determination of the scope of governmental activity in the fields of general welfare, social control, and moralistic supervision of behavior; the determination of the amount of governmental expenditures in relation to national income, and the ways. And means of financing the government's operations; the position of the national government in its relations with the other members of the family of nations; the development of liberty, equality, and democracy, in face of the concentration of great wealth in the hands of a few. Of major importance are the relations of government to industry." (Vol. 1, page LX.) As these functions increase people depend more and more upon additional service.
Naturally such services are attended by increasing costs. The ideal of greater service at decreased, or even constant cost, is quite impossible. We must prepare for increasing costs. And we must not cling too tenaciously to the old ideas and forms at the expense of the new.
Better to reconsider total costs and the values derived 

  therefrom in relation to each other, and economize on less pressing needs than on some of the functions which are being decried simply because they are innovations, although it is a difficult matter to distinguish between the useful and the merely extreme.
Experimentation is costly, but the matter of governmental adjustment to changing conditions is so intricate it is impossible to progress toward that end without a certain amount of experimentation.
Theories are inadequate without some degree of trial.
Economic security is an ideal which seems to become more difficult of realization as time goes on; yet its actuality is essential to the happiness and peace of mind of all people. New problems in industrial control with exceptional technological development mean that governmental service must assume many new forms. All these functions are expensive. If those who are unable to provide their own economic security are going to look to the government to assist them, the more able must develop a state of mind which is not too resistant to governmental attempts to do so. To quote once more from Recent Social Trends, "The service functions of government are also likely to expand because of the demands of the special economic groups. The poverty of the marginal and submarginal farmers, the insecurity of the wage earners in industry, the perplexity of the - consumers, the plight of the railroads, are likely to call for, indeed have already demanded, the close cooperation of the government.
Unemployment and industrial instability are of special urgency in their demands for governmental assistance, first of all in times of emergency, but also in preventing the recurrence of disastrous crises or in minimizing their rude shocks and ghastly losses." (Vol. I, page LXII.) Just how far the sovereign power of government should go in controlling such functions for social stability is a problem upon which individual thought differs, and justly so. Not only would it be impossible to arbitrarily set the goal, it would be highly undesirable.
Such is the obligation of active citizenship, to exercise the right of intelligent judgment: but intelligent judgment presupposes thoughtful consideration and study of the problems at issue.
Blind adherence to a slogan or the emotional dictation of action is unlikely to bring the greatest social stability. Yet, participation by all those entitled'to suffrage is the inviolable obligation of the residents of democracies.
Their problems inescapably confront all the people.
Such is the obligation of living under a democratic form of government; and the more complicated the problem the greater the responsibility.
