RELIEF SOCIETY SALT LAKE COUNTY.

	Minutes of a meeting held Saturday,
June 22d, 1878, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-
dent of Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake,
presiding. Counselors Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and S. M. Heywood, Secretary Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. Marinda Hyde, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Elder
O. F. Whitney, repor[-]er for Deseret News,
and Presidents of Relief Societies from dif-
ferent settlements occupied the stand and
platform. After singing, and prayer by
Counselor E. S. Taylor, the Secretary, E.
Howard, read the minutes of the last Con-
ference, which were accepted, and then
the Quarterly report of each branch of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake County, except
the Eleventh and Nineteenth Wards of Salt
Lake City, and West Jordan, which were
not reported, were read. President Horne
then made some remarks, a part of which
are given below:
	"I do not like the word begging, which
is used in some of the reports; the word
should not be used; it is not begging, but
voluntary gifts that are contributed for
benevolent purposes. Moses called on the
Children of Istael in the wilderness to do-
nate for building a Tabernacle, and they
gave so freely of their jewels that he told
them to stop, for he had more than enough.
It was not begging. There are two or
three items I wish to mention. We are co-
laborers with the brethren, we are keeping
an account of our labors in a Stake capacity,
our Secretary needs a book for this purpose,
our Corresponding Secretary needs paper,
envelopes, stamps, pens and ink for her la-
bor. We require some means for these
public uses. At Draperville the other day,
when I was visiting the Relief Society, the
sisters contributed six dollars and ninety
cents towards a fund for that purpose. It
is a great day for women in Zion. Last
Annual Conference was the first time that
women were voted for at a Conference. I
am glad our labors are coming into notice.
When the Church was first organized there
were only six members, but it soon in-
creased in numbers; the Twelve were called
and Bishops and other officers were set
apart for various offices. In due time a
revelation was given through the prophet
to Emma, that she should read and exponnd
the Scriptures to the women, and she was
ordained to fill the position as President of
a Relief Society.
	We hope to have our next Conference
held all day. At that meeting we would
like to have a report of the labor done, and
also of the spiritual improvement. Let
each one ask herself how much she has im-
proved in speaking, praying and doing
good."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball: "I feel a degree of
diffidence and of pleasure in standing be-
fore you to-day. The 19th of next month
will be the Thirtieth anniversary of the
first organization of women in the States—
you will pardon me for referring to this,
but it is to compare it with the date of the
organization of women in this Church,
which goes farther back. A few of us
met together in my parlor in Nauvoo; we
had a desire to do something towards help-
ing to build the Temple. We had some
by-laws written out by Sister E. R. Snow,
and we showed them to President Joseph
Smith, and he said he was glad to have the
opportunity of organizing the women, as a

[Column 2]
part of the priesthood belonged to them.
He wished us to meet in the Masonic Hall,
over the "brick store," in Nauvoo, and we
did so, and there organized on the 17th of
March, 1842. Emma Smith was chosen to
preside, by unanimous vote, and Joseph
told us that she was an elect lady, as she
had been elected. Our sisters in the States
are seeking to improve their condition.
Miss Anthony, one of the leading women
among them, well known everywhere, has
written to Mrs. Wells, Editor of the EXPO-
NENT, saying the women of Utah as a body
MUST fight for the maintenance of the right
to vote, and also to get national guarantee
for all women in the nation. President
Smith the Prophet said women should ask
us for advice, and the time should come
when the women of this Church should
lead in such matters.	*	*	We should
make suggestions to each other for improve-
ment." She then read some rules that
had been written out for the Society over
which she presided.	*	*
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: "I feel it a pleasant
duty to stand before yo[-] on this occasion;
we come together from time to time accord-
ing to appointment, to confer together on
important matters relating to our labors as
a Relief Society, and to give an account of
our hu[-]nble stewardships. Year by year we
are becoming better acquainted with each
other through these gatherings together,
and we are obtaining a knowledge of the
position we occupy, and learning to fill it
more and more creditably. Nothing else
could have effected the good that has been
done through the labors of the sisters in
these organizations. We are gradually en-
larging our sphere of usefulness, as we de
velop our capabilities. In coming together
we are of mutual benefit to each other in
interchanging our ideas, and we learn to
love each other, and we strengthen each
other's faith; we come here not to report
individual labors. but to report the general
condition of the societies. It seems to me
it would be well to report the spiritual con-
dition as well as financial, the amount of
work done, the number of meetings held,
what kind of meetings, whether testimony,
teachers', or working meetings, and the ag-
gregate number of attendance; the names
of Assistant Secretaries and Treasurers,
also Presidents of Teachers, should be given
in the report with the number of Teachers.
Sister Eliza has told us many times the
important duty of the Teachers, in visiting
among the Saints; it is a holy calling, and
a responsible place to fill. The Scriptures
say, "Pure religion and undefiled before
God and the Father, is to visit the widow
and the fatherless," etc. We should take
especial pains to conduct ourselves in such
a manner as to ensure the re[-]pect and confi-
dence of each other, and be ever helpful
and considerate of each other's feelings,
and hold sacred each other's characters; we
want to become efficient, practical and ex-
perienced workers, helps to the brethren,
helps to the priesthood; we, my sisters, are
the pioneer workers in these institutions,
laying the foundation, for if the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets are fulfilled,
our young women will eventually be called
to fill high positions in connection with the
young brethren in this Church. A great
deal has already been done in taking care
of the poor, in donating to Temples, in
storing up grain; President Young had
great confidence in the sisters labors.	*	*
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards: "I always feel hap-
py to sit and listen, yet I have ever a testi-
mony to bear, and when the Lord assists
us we can do anything.	*	*	I have been 

[Column 3]
thinking of the first of the Stake organiza-
tions, when President Young first said we
were to have Quarterly meetings, I was
astonished, it almost made me stagger; the
idea of the sisters having a Conference;
but we have accomplished some little, and
it has been of benefit, no matter what our
duties are, if the Lord helps us we will be
successful. Our daughters will be able to
do much more than we have done; a good
many of us have been pushed here and
there, persecuted and driven, our opportu-
nities have been scanty, and we could not
do as we would, traveling from place to
place; but now we are prospering here,
and our children are having many advan-
tages, and the Lord requires us to speak of
his goodness and talk of his blessings.
Some think there is no necessity for Relief
Societies—some of our good brethren even
would rather their wives would not attend,
think their only duty lies at home; but I
am sure we feel happier and better, and can
do more work and do it better, when we at-
tend our meetings. We can all do some-
thing to help; I am willing in my weak
way to do whatever I am called upon to
do."
	Mrs. Marinda Hyde: "I am pleased and
happy to see the progression of our sisters;
the work we are engaged in is true. I be-
longed to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.	*
I appreciate the teachings and suggestions
that we have heard here to-day; there are
many useful things we can impart to each
other, and we realize our efforts are not in
vain. I am thankful I have lived to see
this day, and I pray God to bless you all."
	Elder O. F. Whitney: "I feel rather lone-
some among so many ladies, the only one
of my sex here. I do not know what I
can say, but hope it will be a benefit to us
all. This is the second woman's congress I
have ever attended (if I may call this a
congress, and I think I may with propri-
ety); the first was in Cleveland, Ohio, last
year. I feel that there is a different spirit
here from what there was there, though the
speakers were ladies of education aud cul-
tivation, but the tendency was to sarcasm
and witticism, all reflecting upon the other
sex, and to create a laugh; but the spirit
here to-day inculcates peace, and will culti-
vate love and good feeling, and you have
had good counsel given to young ladies,
and I know the same will apply to the
young men. I know my mother's instruc-
tions to me have many times saved me
from doing wrong, but it was directed by
the Spirit of God. To educate children in
the right way is just as necessary as any-
thing we can do, and mothers have more
the responsibility of this than the fathers.
Every good man is interested in this work;
I feel you are doing a good work; you have
my faith and I pray God to bless you."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: "I would like the
Secretaries to send in their next Quarterly
reports a week before the Conference; send
them directed to the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT."
	It was then moved and seconded that
the Conference adjourn until Saturday,
Sept. 21st, at 10 o'clock a. m. at the same
place. Singing by the choir. Prayer by
Elder O. F. Whitney.
			E. HOWARD, Secretary.


Washing Colored Fabrics: Previous to wash-
ing calicoes and ginghams, soak them in water
with ox gall; the quantity, one tablespoonful to a
gallon of water. Vinegar in the rinsing water for
pink and green heightens the colors, and soda an-
swers the same purpose for purple and blue.


