OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The excursion of the old folks from this city
to Ogden took place on Tuesday, June 11, and
was a most interesting event. We most heart-
ily commend those who first conceived the
idea of giving the old folks an "out" of this
kind. The aged should always be looked upon
with esteem and respect, and any lack of cour-
tesy to a person in years should never be coun-
tenanced; and the strong and vigorous ought
to be ever ready to lend a helping hand to con-
tribute to their enjoyment. Life is serious,
but human nature makes many requisitions of
men and women, with its peculiar character-
istics, and people are sometimes neglectful of
affording seasonable recreation for those past
middle life. And the facts in this case prove
that among this people the aged and infirm
are not forgotten. Everything for the comfort
of the party had been previously arranged
systematically by the committee, Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Elders C. R. Savage and George
Goddard, with the assistance of Superintend-
ent John Sharp. President John Taylor, Elders
Wilford Woodruff and Joseph F. Smith, of the
Apostles, Presiding Bishop Hunter, with many
of the Bishops of the wards and other breth-
ren accompanied the party. There were thir-
teen cars loaded, and a happier company could
scarcely be found. The Tenth Ward brass
band played at each station by the way, and
other old people came aboard at each of the
stopping places. Everything that could add
to the enjoyment of the party seemed to have
been thought of by the kindly and discreet
committee. Cakes and candles with some ex-
cellent lemonade were passed through the cars
freely to all, and a general good feeling was
manifested. The Seventh Ward Glee Club,
with Elder George Goddard, sang in each car
some appropriate and lively songs.
	Arrived at Ogden, a committee were in wait-
ing to give the company a welcome reception;
the Ogden brass band was playing delightfully;
a party of little girls dressed in white presented
bouquets to the most aged, and teams were in
waiting to take the entire company to the
Grove, where all needful preparations had been
made to make every one comfortable. Tables
were ready and stoves set up, so that those who
wished could have tea or coffee prepared for
them, and blooming young girls were there to
render any assistance to the old people. The
grove was simply delightful, with its heavy
foliage overhead for shade, and green grass un-
derneath for carpeting, and the sunshine, sub-
dued and mild as it slantingly gleamed between
the boughs of the venerable trees, lent a glow-
ing radiance to the scene, and lit up the smil-
ing countenances of those who met there un-
der such peculiar circumstances. Friends long
parted clasped hands once more, dear acquaint-

[Column 2]

ances renewed their former associations for a
moment, and greetings of those who may
never meet again this side the vail were inter-
changed." "O it was wonderful," Was this
great grove full, And all hearts were brimful
Of a bliss that was joyful. President Peery
and his counselors, Elder Franklin D. Richards,
Mayor Farr, and many others used their ut-
most endeavors to make the occasion a happy
one. A more quaint and curious spectacle was
never presented than this grove scene, with
the old folks, and their picnic in little groups
here and there, eating, talking and laughing.
	After the refreshments had been partaken of
by all, the company was called to order by El-
der George Goddard, and they sang "Come let
us anew," &c. Elder L. W. Hancock offered
prayer, and the famous singers, the Italiau
brothers, gave a song in their own language.
Then prizes were distributed, first to the oldest
persons present; the first one being awarded
to Catherine Wilson, 96 years old, born in Mer-
rionetshire, Wales. This old lady drove a
team across the plains, through the rivers,
over steep mountain passes in 1848. The sec-
ond prize was given to William Wild, 95, born
in Northamptonshire, England. The next
prizes were to the oldest persons who had drawn
a handcart over the plains, and the next prizes
were to old ladies who had borne the largest
number of children. Ann Moss had been
married 50 years, and had borne twenty-one
children; Sarah Haslam had borne twenty chil-
dren; and Elizabeth Taylor had borne fourteen
children, and had 600 grand-children and
great-grand-children. Other prizes were dis-
tributed, some to ladies who had yoked and un-
yoked their own cattle and driven them across
the plains, and for several other extraordinary
occurrences and so forth.
	Songs were sung by old gentlemen and la-
dies, foot races were run, jigs danced, and a
variety of incidental impromptus filled up the
time. Music by the bands followed, and after
that speeches from the stand, while the audi-
ence listened in rapt awe and solemnity to
hear the words of the men of God as they ad-
dressed them on this memorable occasion.
Mayor Farr, of Ogden, was the first speaker—
he welcomed them one and all of every class
and creed to Ogden, thanked them for their
company, felt honored with their visit, and
invoked blessings upon their heads.
	Bishop Hunter said he should be destitute of
human feeling if he were not grateful to all
who had aided in this agreeable excursion.
Related his experience in coming to Ogden the
first time, and incidents which transpired by
the way, when there was only one white man
there in the first settlement of this Territory.
Told the people he should be 85 years old on
the 22d day of this month and was bale and
hearty. Said he remembered well the day
when Washington was buried—the gloom that
rested upon the people, what kind of a day it
was, and many things connected with it, and
said he expected to stay a little longer on the
earth. He blessed the old folks and all who
had aided in the excursion.	*	*
	Elder Woodruff said he had met on that occa-
sion some of those with whom he had traveled
up to Zion's Camp, some of the Pioneers, and
some of the Mormon Battalion, and he did
not believe such an assembly as this could be
gathered in any other part of the world.	*	*
	President John Taylor expressed himself
blessed in meeting his friends; said the joy of
the Gospel did not diminish with age.	*	*
While we trusted iu the Almighty He would
never forsake us nor our children, but this
work would roll on, and living or dying all
was well; Zion would be built up and arise and

[Column 3]

shine. He blessed the fathers and mothers in
Israel, and all present, in the name of Jesus.
	Elder C. R. Savage then returned thanks to
all who had contributed to make the occasion
a pleasant one.
	As soon as possible, but in perfect order, the
people were conveyed to the depot, and soon
all were on board the train, the band playing
"Homeward Bound." The whole affair passed
off peacefully, and a universal good feeling
prevailed. The journey home was particularly
pleasant, for a smile of contentment and satis-
faction beamed on every face, and no accident
or incident had occurred to mar the happiness
of the occasion. It was a time long to be re-
membered, an occasion replete with senti-
ments of the most lofty character, and must
inspire in the hearts of every participator,
emotions of kindliness and a feeling to honor
the aged and infirm. Let us all encourage in
our children a desire to extend every courtesy
to those who are declining in years, and honor
their grey hairs. God bless the Old Folks.
	[---] Wells


