	BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	The papers inform us that the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives
has recommitted the passage of a bill di-
franchising the women of Utah.
	On reading such an announcement one
feels as if some day the patience of the
women of this country would be exhausted,
and they would, under these repeated in-
sults and trials, revolt in some dumb and
helpless way against the tyranny of men
who, while professing privately all possible
admiration and affection for our sex, yet
thus publicly humiliate and injure us.
	Such conduct is like that of a man who
with one arm encircles a woman's waist,
and bending over her tells her she is all that
lovely and charming, while with the other
hand he stabs her to the heart!
	For look what a cruel and absurd propo-
sition is this: to advise taking from the
women of the Territory the right of suf-
frage in order to do away with polygramy.
Always the women, never the men. One
would think that this institution had been
invented by women, that they alone were
responsible for its iniquities, and therefore
would be justly punished by being deprived
of their liberties. How completely this is
of a piece with man’s usual treatment of
the sex. Something is wrong somewhere
in the social fabric. Some one must be
blamed, somebody must be punished. Not
the men, oh dear no! They have the
might, and therefore the right, but here
are these feeble, silly women, there is no
one to defend them, fall upon them and
beat and kick them.
	So in order to prevent intemperance,
Rhode Island passes a law that “no liquor
shall be sold to a female.” (Was an absurd-
ity greater, as if the drunkards were all
women; and if you could only stop them
drinking all would be well!)
	Certain places of amusement announce
that “no lady will be admitted without a 
gentleman.” Poor dears, what care the
men do take of their chastity to be sure!
Without this restriction some horrid fallen
woman might come in and perhaps seduce
some innocent man—if there be such a
thing. But any number of horrid fallen
men may roam about at large and try to
seduce young girls and virtuous wives—
that is of no sort of consequence.
	And now, in order to abolish polygramy,
Congress is asked to pass a law to disfran-
chise-the women!
	Of course we all know that the ballot is
practically almost useless in the hands of


both men and women in Utah, where they
are under Mormon rule.  But surely com-
mon sense and common justice would dic-
tate that the bill should be so drawn as to
disfranchise all polygamists, both men and
women, there would then be some reason
in this suggestion.
	There is a possibility that such an infa-
mous law will not find supporters enough
in the House to prevent its enactment, and
yet who can say?  The hands of the wo-
men of the land are tied; their voices are
not heard within those walls; they are
powerless to prevent this or any other in-
sult.
	And yet men pretend to represent us!
What an absurdity!  If the men held their
seats by the votes of women, no one would
dare to suggest such a proposition- men
represent women!  Yes, as tyrants repre-
sent slaves, as hawks represent doves, as
wolves represent lambs!
	[One paragraph in the above article calls
for criticism, but we believe the lady has
written this conscientiously.  She has heard
from what should be truthful and reliable
sources that "the ballot is practically almost
useless in the hands of both men and wo-
men in  Utah under Mormon rule."  We
beg leave to differ with her there, and
would be glad to have an opportunity of
meeting the lady and assigning good and
plausible reasons for the difference of the opin-
ion, as we are posted on the subject and
she is not.]


