PIPSEY-PAPERS.

	A noted author says there are two things
necessary for a writer: first to have some-
thing to say and, secondly, to know how to
say it.  Lacking the first there is much
skill needed to use the second with ability.
Our Society is much interested in collecting
means for the Welsh Mission, we have al-
ready donated thirty-five dollars towards
their emigration.  No doubt as a general
thing we are not thankful enough for the
blessings we enjoy.  We make poor faces
and complain when we have bread in the
cupboard, and health in the family, forget-
ful of the days when we were glad to get
wool to spin for our dresses; when we spun
and wove all day and cut our cloth at
night, and made it up for the family com-
fort.  We had good servicable dresses then,
that lasted several years; the first year they
were usually kept for best, after which they
were usually kept for best, after which
they were taken for everyday wear, and
new ones made for Sundays, Do you re-
member sisters how much pains was taken
in dyeing, how carefully the sage brush
was boiled in the big kettle and set with
alum or copperas to make the requisite
shades for plaiding; and how proud we
were if our dresses were as fine, as smooth,
as bright colored as our neighbors'.  Then
our dainty feet were encased in good home-
made, valley-tan calfskin; one pair of shoes
lasted a year; they were put ou in the fall
and the lady who kept hers the longest,
was the envy of her less fortunate sisters.
Some of the ladies had ingenuity enough
to make their own summer shoes, with a
little help, perhaps, from the village shoe-
maker who would sew on the soles in the
evening when his day's work in the field
was done, if he was industriously inclined,
in view, perhaps, of a nice roll of butter
for his holiday dinner.
	My reminiscences may be considered in
bad taste, but I cannot help thinking of
these things when I see my sisters robed in
"purple and fine linen," with their voluni-
nous skirts sweeping the dust from the
sidewalks, and hear them find fault and
complain of their privations and harships.
We should thank God for every blessing
and carry our small annoyances as lightly
as possible, for we never know when mis-
fortune may overtake us.  My neighbor,
Mrs. Ezra Oakley received a letter from her
husband, at Leeds saying that he was well,
and doing well.  The next day the word
came flashing over the wires that he was
dead; died of pneumonia and heart-disease
at the age of twenty-six, leaving a wife
and child, a mother and two sisters wild
with grief at the unexpected bereavement.
How small the common worriments of life
seem compared to such a sorrow!
	Speaking of our daily crosses, brings to
mind a dream I will relate, hoping my sis-
ters may profit by its teachings as I have
done.
	I thought I saw a child buried in very
beautiful robes.  After the friends had
gone away I said to a woman standing by,
what a pity it was for such beautiful cloth-
ing to be hidden and rot in the ground
when something plainer would do as well;
let us take it up and keep the clothing our-
selves, which we accordingly did, putting
some plainer things upon the body and
burying it again.  When fairly through
our task we began thinking what we had
done and what dreadful consequences would
follow if it was discovered.  An awful ter-
ror come over us insomuch that we conclud-
ed to take the child up and put the clothes
back. When we tried to do so some one
came by and we waited for them to pass,
and others came and hindered us until we
were called away and it was not accom-
plished.  I awoke in grief and tears, and
the interpretation was given me then.  It
meant that if we had troubles or disagree-
ments when they were settled and past, we
should let them lie buried and not bring
them forth to annoy us, for it was difficult
to have them replaced.  So whenever  I
thought of a past grievance I remembered
my dream and said nothing about it.  When
you are disposed to bring forward old
troubles to torture or distress you, just re-
member it will be hard to bury them as
they were before and let them alone.  I
have seen much happiness since I took that
for my motto, and let my troubles lie bur-
ies.						MARY.


