HINTS TO MOTHERS.

	Since reading the article in the EXPO-
NENT entitled "Education and Culture of
Women," I have felt like saying something
to mothers in regard to training their boys.
I have visited some of the Conjoint Im-
provement Meetings, and I think the girls
take more interest, advance more rapidly,
attend more regularly, and are more atten-
tive to instructions than the boys are.
	I have also noticed in many families that
parents do not seem to think their boys
need any education, or refinement; they
have no books or papers provided for them,
from which they might gain knowledge,
and appear only to wish them to know how
to work. When they come in at evening,
after their day's work is done, instead of
having the Bible, Book of Mormon, or

[Column 2]

some other good work for them to read,
they find employment for their minds and
hands by playing cards for pastime, or any
frivolous game for amusement; thus their
education is neglected, and their minds al-
lowed to go to waste; and I fear that this
is not all they lack, but that the parents
allow their boys to grow up without teach-
ing them to pray, or ask a blessing upon
their food, or to acknowledge in any way
the power of God.
	And how sadly are their manners neg-
lected also! They will go to an evening
party, or meeting, many of them, with
their hair uncombed, wearing their dirty
overalls, without coats, and their breath
smelling horribly of whiskey and tobacco.
And yet they think they are worthy of our
pure, refined, cultured girls, and expect to
marry them and make them happy. But
alas! how can a woman be happy with a
man who has no idea in common with her;
one who has never read anything to im-
prove his mind, or studied refinement, or
elevation, or sought for spiritual knowledge,
as she has?
	O, sisters! let us try to take more pains
with our children, and have books and
amusements ready for them, so that they
may remain at home, contented and happy,
and not have any excuse to go to saloons,
or billiard halls, for enjoyment. Let us be-
gin while they are young to teach them to
pray and sing, to attend meetings for spir-
itual culture, and put their trust in God; to
cultivate their minds and manners, and be-
come intelligent; for surely, as God himself
is an intelligent Being, He will desire us to
be so, and will help all who seek to attain
to excellence. Let us, also, strive to im-
prove ourselves, that we may know how to
instil into the minds of our little ones such
things as will benefit them here and here-
after.
	I have no boys of my own, but I have a
great desire to say or do something to im-
prove the condition of our boys in Zion,
so I have addressed a few ideas to mothers,
thinking perhaps I may awaken some of
them to a knowledge of the importance of
their duties, and thus benefit the sons; and
if they will learn to spend their money for
good books, instead of whiskey and tobac-
co, and instead of their evil habits form
good ones, I am sure it will bring its own 
reward.	GIPSY GOLDEN.


[Column 1]

