MEADOWVILLE.

	This place is surrounded by gentle slop-
ing mountains covered with beautiful green
verdure to sustain animal life; and as Au-
tumn approaches every variegated color one
can conceive, attracts the eye. The mead-
ows lying east of the town, fenced in for
hay and pasturage afford an abundance of
the best quality of hay, equal to tame grass;
it grows two to three feet in height wet
seasons. Butter is made here of the best
quality, yellow, rich and hard, through the
summer season; I have churned butter in
the month of July, and it would be as hard
as in other climates in the winter. Had
we oak firkins, and pure salt, our butter
could not be surpassed for sweetness and
solidity. If some one would take an inter-
est in setting out a few acres of the oak,
what great advantage could be derived
therefrom. Here we have one of the most
beautiful and romantic springs, the largest
in the Territory, forming a creek three
miles in length, which empties itself into
Bear Lake. In this spring the trout came
up to spawn from the Lake. From this


spring is brought a ditch around the West
hills to irrigate with; this brings a
great deal of land under cultivation, this
ditch is rather sluggish as it has not much
fall.  A greater project has been entered in-
to by bringing the water from a contrary
direction, bringing out the water from a
higher location and uniting small springs
which run a considerable distance higher
than the other, thns bringing under culti-
vation hundreds of acres that could not oth-
erwise have been cultivated.  In about two
weeks time, five miles of this ditching has
been made by the energetic and stalwart
sons of Israel.  What will union, when com-
bined with effort not accompish? It will
make the earth like the Garden of Eden,
to blossom like the rose, and yield forth
her strength.  To-day the brethren are sur-
veying for a ditch to carry the water
around the east hills, which if successful,
will invite the settlers to build their coun-
try seats above the ditch in the side-hills,
which will afford dry cellars, early gardens
and orchards.  A row of dwellings on the
east and west side of the town, with gar-
dens and orchards in front would make the
scenery remind one of the Highlands of
Scotland. Would that a few of the hardy
race from the north regions would come
and help settle this salubrious climate.
Here the sweet pure air is bracing, it
comes from the mountain-tops clad with
snow, breaking through the timbers, and
onward to the blue waters of the lake.
Here one can sleep in sweet repose for the
nights are always cool.  This high and
healthy location, would lengthen out the
days of the invalid and the weakly could
not spend their time to better advantage
than to pay a visit to Bear Lake to recruit.
We would invite a few mechanics to our
valley; a blacksmith would do well, as all
the travel this way, passes through here,
when the road is open.  A man or two with
large families could find employment for
boys or girls, as farmers are always in need
of help, and a more healthy place could
not be found to raise a family.  We have a
day and Sunday school, Fast meetings, and
two Society meetings.  It seems to me
that if there were means to emigrate, none
need suffer in the old countries, for there
is an abundance of land lying here in an
uncultivated state.  Sisters let us appropri-
ate a portion of our means to the emigra-
gration fund, every society can do some-
thing. Little girls pick up the waste pieces,
wash and color them nicely, make them
into carpets or make quilts, and instead of
raffling them off, surprise needy sisters
with them, and each one pay ten or fifteen
cents and put the means in the fund.
This would answer two purposes, and your
work would be greatly blest.  In country
towns we can glean all kinds of grain, and
get produce, and where fruit grows, dry it;
if the frost takes the grain we will save the
straw, and braid it into hats, to assist in
bringing the Saints from abroad, that they
may help to build up Zion and strengthen
her Stakes.
						M. A. PRATT.
Mae dowville, May 24th, 1878.


