WOMAN'S ADVANCEMENT.

	From time immemorial woman has, to a
certain extent, been either the slave or pet
of men. Now some noble spirits are step-
ping on the platform of life, bearing free-
dom to women. Their strong desires and
fixed purposes are brought to bear on the
minds of their fellow-sisters; the noble
powers of woman, which have so long lain
dormant, are now awaking to new life, and
universally, almost, women realize they
are not slaves, or toys, but something no-
bler and better. The true woman is gentle
and refined, having those finer qualities
not so generally found among men. Yet
her intellect is as great, her aspirations as
lofty; she can amuse herself with the
frolics of children, or, if need be, she is
capable of governing nations. From the
same chaotic matter of which the Lord
formed man made He woman also, and as
he may be priest and king, she eventu-
ally may also be queen and priestess. The
curse is being removed from woman; man
will not long be permitted to wield an iron
sceptre over her, but will understand her
right position as companion and counselor.
Nowhere are women as a class treated with
the respect and equality that they are
among the Latter-day Saints. Here they
are the honored wives of good and intelli-
gent men, having no doubts of their hus-

[Column 2]

band's fidelity. Not so elsewhere, for as
pagan Greece had her educated COURTE-
SANS, who were publicly the favorites of
philosophers and statesmen, while the
wives and mothers were often but household
drudges, so in modern Christian nations
many of the wives and mothers are almost
ignored, while their husbands spend time
and money with the "Demimonde."
	Yet the great cry is these Mormon prac-
tice plurality of wives! Oh, how horrible!
Their women are honorable wives and
their children are legitimate. Oh, what a
dreadful state of society! Congress should
look into these matters they think; sensa-
tional newspapers are at work, and they
would have armies sent here to clear this
great social evil (plural marriage) from the 
face of the earth. These Mormons, say they
are a civil, industrious people, we would
like to live among them; they have built
up a flourishing Territory, but their morals
are so corrupt. Why do they not pattern
after us? we have only one wife. But they
do not tell what secret practices exist among
them, these are fashionable follies, and
respectable people have these small vices.
	Women have shown great executive
talent in all the departments of life. They
have governed nations as royally as kings.
They are the queens of song, and the mimic
stage, and the ministering angels to man-
kind. Men will yet learn of woman's ca-
pabilities, and that women have souls
which will shine forth in such brilliancy as
to enlighten their understanding, and cause
them to acknowledge women their equals.
	The lords of creation sneer at strong-
minded, intelligent women; they say they
lose that simplicity and modesty so attrac-
tive to man. But if you speak of marriage
to these wise beings, they shake their
heads, heave a sigh, and from their appear-
ance one would suppose they were about to
be involved in some great misfortune. They
will tell you they really cannot afford it,
the girls are so extravagant, they are such
frivolous and senseless creatures, not at all
like their grandmothers. True, many of
the young ladies are what are defined as
frivolous and senseless to a certain ex-
tent, and they are so because frivolous and
senseless men have formed the customs of
society and the laws that govern the world.
Let the mothers of Israel tell their daugh-
ters that they are designed fer a nobler pur-
pose than to be the mere pet, or drudge, of
any man. Place before them incentives to
become what women should be—intelligent,
refined, and capable beings. Teach them
to become true daughters, wives and moth-
ers in the noblest sense. That to be the
wife of an intelligent, worthy man, no
matter how many responsibilities he has
already assumed, is better than to be the
one wife of a licentious, non-believing mo-
nogamist The man that is worthy of the
name is the noblest of God's creation, the
head and chief, and by his side stands the
woman as his companion and counselor,
neither being perfect without the other.
	Such are those that carry the stamp of
nobility; those who have risked lives and
property to benefit their fellow-creatures,
those who respect and honor women; but
they are the few and not the many. Be-
fore the "franchise" was given to the wo-
men of Utah, the great cry was the bond-
age of the "Mormon" women. "Please,
Mr. Senator, can you not do something for
these poor, pale-faced, abused creatures?
Look into these matters, and free these de-
spised women from the hands of their per-
secutors." Now that the world know that
the bondage of the "Mormon" women is a


farce, the cry is, "Away with the franchise;
it gives these Mormon men too much pow-
er. Why some of them have a dozen
wives! Oh, what will become of the poor
innocent Gentiles in Utah?" Shall we,
then, allow ourselves to be disfranchised be-
cause some sleepy Senator refuses to listen
to the truth? Not silently; let the "Mor-
mon" women exert their utmost ingenuity
in their own defense; help those noble souls,
by faith and prayers earnest and fervent,
that are devoting time and energies to the
redemption of women. Let the power of
your wills be so strong that it will overrule
that unappreciative element of women's
rights in the National Congress, that when
the question is again discussed their con-
tortions may be something more than a
grin.
