CORRESPONDENCE
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
    As we wish always to be numbered with
those your paper represents, we thought
we would report ourselves again. We are
trying to be as self-sustaining as possible,
and alive to the duties of our calling. We
have had a visit from Sisters E.R. Snow 
and E. Davis, for which we are very grate-
ful, and hope to ever retain the spirit of
the instuctions given, that they may be as
beneficial as they were encouraging. We
welcome the EXPONENT and thought if
not intruding to much we would like you
to give space in its columns for the minutes
of the meeting.
					May 12th, 1878.

 A meeting called on account of a visi.
from Sister E. R. Snow and E. Davis
Pres't. M. L. Woolf, presiding. Singing
--Prayer by Bishop R. Daines. Singing--
The President thanked the sisters and gave
the meeting into their hands. Sister Snow
said we were one if we were true Latter-
day Saints, desired the prayers of the 
saints, that true saints were not satisfied
but by the Spirit of God. In the Church
there is but one interest; she had the same
interest for this ward that she had for the
one over which she presided. That the
time was when it was preposterous for a
woman to talk when brethren were present,
that we were learning our true position;
in Eden the same law was given to man
and woman but through transgression men
rule. What women ever be from under
that curse? Not outside of this church.
We have much to live for, for if worthy
we are joint-heirs with Jesus Christ. We
stand at the head of womankind. Joseph
said in the eternal worlds we had the choice
to attain to the reward of the faithful. We
are the truly noble; we should give CASTE
to the Gentile world, not pattern after it;
but we could not do so in ignorance, we
must cultivate ourselves. We have germs
implanted within us that we can aspire to
the highest positions. We should converse
on subjects pertaining to every day life,
but by way of encouragement we should
speak of the glorious future of the faithful.
We have no interest but the Kingdom of

God; when Zion prospers we prosper; we
should live above the trials of this life, we 
should forget ourselves in the great mis-
sion we had to perform, should not com-
plain of our many aches and pains, and
should not judge harshly. The brethren
talk of great matters, we have to deal with 
small matters but underlyning great ones.
Joseph said sisters were more capable to ad-
minister to the sick and comfort them, but
there is a sympathy that is false and does
not tend to good; we should not pity each
other in our trials, but encourage each oth-
er to overcome them. Bear with each oth-
er's faults, wrong will not right wrong.
All the sisters should belong to the Relief 
Society and be live members; God has or-
ganized these Societies for women to help
the priesthood, unless we meet as God has
appointed we would lack spiritual food.
We should be fellow-workers, should be 
charitable with each other, nothing produc-
es true happiness but the Spirit of God.
Women give character to society, mothers
should be real saints. Mothers have great
influence and are not working for today
only. The Lord wanted a generation of
Saviors. Showed to the young sisters the
necessity of preparing themselves for their
high calling, and the young men to never
defile their tabernacles by the use of tobac-
co or liquor, nor ever profane the name of
the Deity; but to aim high, they could not
aim so high but what they could attain it if
they lived up to the privleges of the Gos-
pel. The Lord could not save the human
family without Celestial Marriage; this life
is nothing to the eternity to come. Sisters
E. Davis bore her testimony  to the truth
of our faith; would like the sisters to take
the EXPONENT, that Mormon women could
be represented through their own paper. 
Bishops Daines and Roskelly thought if the 
inst6ructions given were carried out that we
should be blest, good counsel given by good
men and women should be as land marks
unto us, prayed the Lord to us with 
retentive memories. Mrs. Davis spoke of
the privileges of the ballot, that we should
improve our oppurtunities, or we may loose
them; the sisters should urge their hus-
bands to obtain their naturalization papers.
By request, recited a poem on Celestial
Marriage. 

Pres. Mary Woolf thought we were 
blest if we would carry out the good instruc-
tions. Singing--Benediction by J.A.
Woolf jun.
			MARY L. WOOLF, Pres't
			MARY E. GRIFFITH Sec'y.
--Hyde Park Jan. 3d.


