NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRTIETH Anniversary of the
Second Woman's Rights Convention the
world ever knew, will be celebrated by a
Convention in Corinthian Hall, Rochester,
N. Y., July 19th, 1878. The first one was
held in Akron, Ohio, the year before, by
Mrs. Frances D. Gage and other Western
women. This second one met July 19, in
a church in Seneca Falls, N. Y., then the
home of Mrs. Stanton, and adjourned to
meet August 1, at Rochester. It is emi-
nently fitting that the thirtieth anniversary
should be held in this latter city. Some
who took part in the Convention have
passed on, but many others, including both
Mrs. Mott and Mrs. Stanton, its callers, are
still living. This Convention will take the

[Column 2]

place of the usual May anniversary, and
will be largely devoted to reminiscences.
Friends are cordially invited to be present,
especially the pioneers in the reform.
	WILLIAM CULLEN Bryant, the poet, au-
thor, editor, philosopher and statesman
died at his residence in New York City on
Wednesday, June 12, at 5 25 a.m. Amer-
ica may well be proud of so good and great
and wise man. Bryant was born at Cum-
mington, Mass., Nov 3, 1794. At the early
age of ten years he commenced his literary
career, displaying wonderful genius in
writing and translating, and as he grew
older became eminent not only for his ver-
satile learning and talent but his great prac-
tical abilities, combined with a nature so
genial and tender that he attracted all
hearts to him, thereby wielding a more
powerful influence. His works are numer-
ous and widely celebrated. His popular-
ity as an author and scholar has been
known for at least three score years and ten.
Mr. Bryant had enjoyed excellent health up
to the time of his illness two weeks pre-
vious to his death. Mr. Bryant had travel-
ed extensively in foreign countries and had
wonderful powers of description. In one
of his poems called "June," he most exquis-
itely expresses a fervent wish to die in that
beautiful month. 
	THE NEW England Woman's Subscrip-
tion Festival which is held yearly took
place Wednesday evening May 29th, in Hor-
ticultural Hall, Boston, Mass., Mr. William
I. Bowditch made the opening address. His
speech was principally upon the Suffrage
for women, taxation without representa-
tion, etc. Many statistical facts were
brought forward by him to prove how in-
complete and cruel had been the laws of
the past and that all was not yet accom-
plished that ought to be to improve the
condition of the people. Mr. B. said J.
Story taught us that "Law is a progressive
science," etc. Wendell Phillips was the
next speaker, in his address which was
powerful and eloquent, he said he fancied
one reason why the public took so little in-
terest in Woman's Suffrage was because so
little money was put into it. People said:
"You are a woman's suffrage man, how
much have you done for woman's suffrage?"
That was their only thermometer; he re-
ferred to the money subject as a necessity
to success; said there were only two tests
which people applied to determine the
merit and probable success of every cause.
The one was money the other was votes.
Miss Mary F. Eastmam, Rev. Mr. Cal-
thrope, and Miss Abby W. May, each ad-
dressed the audience in a similar strain.
There were many excellent things said by
these ladies and gentlemen, and the spirit
manifested is one that will not be rebuffed
or discouraged but persistent and earnest,
and full of strength and determination.


MME. Strauss, wife, of the great compos-
er Johann Strauss, is dead. She was best
known in musical circles as Jetty Taffa. It
is thought her death may interfere with the
great composer and his orchestra going to
Paris, to the Exposition.


