ODE TO JUNE.

	Bright, beautiful June, with thy long, pleasant days,
Thy sunshine and languor, and soft, dreamy ways,
All blushing, and glowing, and radiant in bloom,
Bathing mountain, and meadow, and vale with perfume;
O what a world of blossoms, and of flowers,
In the month of June, is this fair earth of ours.

	The glory that rests on the mountains and hills,
And music of rivers, and fountains, and rills,
And the song of the robin, and coo of the dove,
(Inspiring emotions of tenderest love,)
These well forth in freshness, all sweetly attune,
To greet with a welcome the young maiden, June.

	Old lichened woods are dark with living green,
And blushing roses everywhere are seen;
And all the live-long night the thrush and nightingale,
Pour forth in sweetest strains, in some deep vale,
Their tales of love, their mysteries, pain and grief,
And in sweet sympathy with them there is relief -

	For those who mourn, with sorrowing hearts and tears,
The loved and cherished ones of other years,
There is an enchantment in the song and hour,
And dreams steal o'er us with bewitching power,
While shadowed fancies round our couches play,
Till larks and swallows welcome the coming day.

	And once again the earth is robed in light,
And princess June is crowned in wild delights,
Her sceptre garlanded with wreaths of flowers,
Proudly she sits within her leafy bowers;
And everywhere her dainty feet have trod,
She left an impress of the power of God.
							E. B. Wells EMILE.


For the EXPONENT.
JACOB'S PILLOW VERSUS PILLAR.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
All who have visited and explored the
glories and beauties of the great National
Cathedral of England, Westminister Abney,
have been shown "The Coronation stone"
on which the chair of state is placed, that
has borne the sovereigns of England for
many centuries at their coronation.  This
stone has a most wonderful history - it is
said to be the identical stone that Jacob
took for his pillow, when he was sent by
his parents to Padan-aram to take a wife
of the family of Bethnel, his mother's
brother; he arrived late in the evening at
the city, and found the gates were shut; "as
the sun was set," and being very weary
with his long journey, he looked around
and found a stone that he took for his pil-
low, laid down and soon fell asleep; and
God gave him a wonderful dream, or vision:
He saw a ladder set upon the earth, and
the top reached into heaven!  The angels
of God were ascending and descending on
it, and "the Lord stood at the top of it;"--
and in the vision He made a covenant with
Jacob that He would give him the land
whereon he was then sleeping. and pro-
ceeded to give him mighty blessings, and
promised that He would not leave him till
he had done all that He had said.  And
Jacob awoke, and he felt afraid and said,
"This is none other but the House of God!
and this is the Gate of Heaven"--"And he
took the stone that he had put for his pil-
low and set it up for a pillar, and poured
oil upon the top of it, and paid his vows
unto the Lord upon it as a pillar of witness
between him and his God! And said, This
stone which I have set for a pillar shall be
God's House, and I will give a tenth unto
the Lord." [Read Genesis, 28th chap , be-
ginning at the 10th verse; it is very inter-
esting throughout.]
	A very powerful tradition, amounting
almost to an historical account, declares this
stone beneath the Throne Chair in West-
minister Abbey is the identical stone that
Jacob took for his pillow, and afterwards
consecrated with holy oil, and set it up as a
pillar of witness, and as such it stands to-
day.  It is also called "the stone of desti-
ny," and the belief is that the destiny of
England, the firm basis on which her laws
and constitution, her success in arms, her
wealth and prosperity as queen of nations,
is bound up and connected by this wonder-
fnl stone!  Many prophecies are cited to
establish facts - it is believed that the Pro-
phet Jeremiah visited Britain and that a
daughter of the royal house of David ac-
companied him,and they carried this sacred
stone with them.  It was then carried to
Ireland, and afterwards taken by Fergus
XIV. to Scotland, who was crowned upon
upon it at Iona first King of Scotts and
Picts, A. D. 530--afterwards Kenneth II.
was crowned upon it King at Sione in Pictia.
Through James I. of Scotland, and VI. of
England, it was brought to England, and
placed where it has remained ever since, in
Westminister Abbey.  All the sovereigns
down to Queen Victoria have received up-
on it their royal crown and holy anointings
as such in regular and undisputed descent;
and I expect it is far more highly valued
than the Kor i nor.  It is an interesting
employment to trace out the many prophe-
cies respecting this wonderful stone--"The
Stone of Israel"--that are found in the Bi-
ble; and the very fact of so many sove-
reigns being inaugurated upon it for so
many centuries, establishes it as "a pillar
of witness" between God and those He has
seen fit to honor.
	We live in marvelous times, and many
things and many persons now thought little
of will be brought out by the providences
of God, and made to stand forth as those
whom HE delights to honor.  It has been
said the stones of the street will rise up
and testify.  Will not that rough, ragged
and weather-beaten old stone in Westmin-
ster Abbey, yet be exalted in its silent elo-
quence of long, long years, and the Kor-i-
nor, and the "Pill diamond," and the Queen
of Portugal's "largest diamond in the
world" sink into comparative insignifi-
cance?


