WOMAN AND HER OPPORTUNITIES.

    An hours' reading each day in some use-
ful book, helps prepare a woman for future
works and lifts her out of a daily routine of
housework, where there is a family to be
attended to.  It is time to rise above the
pressure and hurry of a life of drudgery,
time for woman to show more self-reliance,
time to break away from false customs that
are destroying true womanhood.  To be
able to comprehend largely and see things
in their true sense is one of the results of
education. Self-culture is necessary for our
improvement; it teaches us to know more
of ourselves, ahd thus to know more of
others. There are many ways in which a
woman can develop the powers which the
Father has endowed her with.  It has been
truly said, "educate the mother and you
will elevate the children."  There is a vast
field of labor for woman; her capabilities
were not given her to lie dormant, but to 
be employed in acquiring knowledge and
becoming cultivated.  A true lady will re-
gard the rights and feelings of others, and
it is no mark of a lady or gentleman to be
uncouth or indifferent to another's feelings
or welfare; politeness ought to be made a
habit.  Mothers should set examples of
this before their children; it is vain to look
for a noble character without some cultiva-
tion; and the foundation should be laid in
early life. 
	There is no branch of education that wo-
man may not undertake, but all should be
taught the benefit of personal dignity, and
the need and utility of adapting them-
selves to the circumstances in which they
are placed.  Seek to show yourselves true
to the nature you possess, and sphere you
occupy, disciplined by culture and subject
to principle; these things are essential to
the highest glory of womanhood.  There
has been a great deal said about womens
rights, it is a subject that I feel interested
in, although I disagree with some of those
public lectures, and lecturers, yet there are
those who are inspired with a true desire
to elevate woman to a higher sphere, not by
destroying men's influence, but helping to
do what men have failed to see for the ad:
vantage of humanity.  Women may enter-
tain some ideas that may not be wholly
consistent, but let woman labor in her
sphere and not strive to do that which is
not appointed her to do.
 What are our future lives to be?  Just
what we qualify ourselves for.  The inter-
ests of any community would, I firmly be-
lieve, profit by the "franchise" being ex-
tended to women; every woman should es-
teem it a privilege and a duty to vote.
Women should have a good general educa-
tion which will give them an understand-
ing of the government of their country and
the right of suffrage.  If women were al-
lowed more of these privileges, they would
materially benefit society.  Men are calcu-
lated to lead out, and for this reason should
have sympathy for woman, instead of
crushing the germ implanted in her mind
by the Author of her being, for a noble
purpose.  Then why seek to rob woman
of the privilege assigned her in her crea-
tion,to be a helpmeet?  Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother in all
questions of interest.  Women often take
shelter in their weakness, and believe it is
right; whereas, if woman knew herself, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for.  She controls, or ought to,
the elements of life, the germ of future
glory.  Shall we not urge woman to real-
ize her responsibility and influence, in the
manner natural to her nature?
We are pleased to note the growing de-
sire of women to live for something high-
er than daily drudgery, and the common
concerns of mere earthly existence.  God
has designed her to share with man the
glories of an exaltation.  The position she
occupies, if properly filled, is just as honor-
able as his; she cannot fill his place, he
cannot fulfill the duties which belong to
hers, therefore, there is no need of any-
quarrel as to who is the greatest.
MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, June 14, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
