EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Feeling interested in the work the so-
cieties are doing to assist in the establish-
ment of the kingdom of God, I venture to
write you a brief report of our progress in
this part of the Lord's vineyard. Our So-
ciety have done a little towards carrying
out the counsel of our departed President
Brigham Young. We have in store about
twenty bushels of wheat, notwithstanding
the destructive proclivities of the grass-
hoppers in taking our entire crop of which
our depleted granaries bear evidence. But
we hope through the blessing of God to be
more successful this season as we have a
brighter prospect for raising grain, and the
sisters mean to prove their faith by their
work in the harvest field.
	On Saturday, May 4th, our beloved Sis-
ter E. R. Snow, and E. Davis, held three
meetings with us. At 10, a. m., Sister
Snow spoke on the practical duties of our
holy religion, by sustaining home-indus-
tries, seri-culture, etc. Mrs. Davis testified
to the truth of Miss Snow's remarks and
encouraged the Saints to sustain the EXPO-
NENT, and all Church works which would

[Column 3]
prove a lasting benefit to them. At 2
o'clock, p. m., Miss Snow addressed the Y.
L. M. I. Association on the necessity of
spiritual instruction to obtain a correct idea
of our Father and God, and their responsi-
bilities, teach them to become good house-
keepers, and such home instructions as are
suitable for the young to learn. Mrs. Davis
said she perceived by the minutes which
were read that the young sisters had made
great improvement since their organiza-
tion. At 7 o'clock, p. m. the sisters ad-
dressed the Young Mens and Young La-
dies Associations on the subject of Celes-
tial Marriage, moral and spiritual culture,
and refinement necessary for the society of
holy beings.
	On Tuesday evening, they held another
meeting; an attentive audience listened to
Miss Snow's touching appeal to live pure
and virtuous lives; a great portion of the
Holy Spirit rested upon both speaker and
hearers, and the instruction was replete
with counsel and blessings to the Saints,
and a warning to the lukewarm.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres't.
