BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is ever an inspiration in the Scrip-
tures that I feel in no other book; yet oth-
ers charm, delight, instruct, and have
made for me often a sunshine in the shade.
It was my mother's custom to teach her
children to read selections from the New
Testament as soon as they had passed
through the primer, and explain to them
what they read as far as they were capable
to understand; many of the chapters are
written in plain and simple language, such
as a child can compass. This system no
doubt accounts for the delightful associa-
tions that have clung to me through life,
and the inspiration accompanying them;
In these days I mourn to find an infidelic
feeling with regard to the Holy Scriptures.
I hear intelligent educated women exclaim-
ing "I cannot read the Scriptures, they
are so deep, I know nothing about them."
These words tell the tale, did they read they
would know and have very different feel-
ings with regard to them. These Scrip-
tures have fed the world for generations
with "food convenient to them," and many
have been enlightened, strengthened and
invigorated by them for the journey of
life, and the trials that "flesh is heir to."
There they have beheld themselves as in a
mirror, their experience has been mapped
out before them, and there they have also
found the panacea for them. The psalms
of David are especially descriptive of hu-
man life, its trials, sorrows, weaknesses,
sins, repenta[-]ce, and the glory and exalta-
tion that awaits the soldier of Christ, when
the warfare of this terrestial existence is
ended. The Spirit of God and His inspira-
tion, runs through every part of them, and
by this establishes their divine origin un-

[Column 2]
mistakably, this applies to the whole Scrip-
tures; it seems impossible that a pure un-
sophisticated mind, cultivated by nature
and education, should fail to discover the
footprints of Deity, and by means of the
spirit ear catch the whisperings of the "still
small voice" that breathes into every mind
that is open to receive it. That discrepan-
cies have crept in, there can be no doubt
during the casualties they have passed
through, its transit from one language to
another, and through so many opposing
elements. Three thousand of these holy
Books, were, by command of the Pope,
burnt at one time in Smithfield, London,
and they have passed through all manner of
emergencies and distractions from the per-
secution of enemies. Yet these Scriptures
exist in innumerable numbers in all civil-
ized countries to-day, in every clime and
tongue, a living oracle to all who seek for
the spirit of God by which they were writ-
ten. The old Scriptures are an epic poem,
the greatest and the grandest ever penned
by mortal hand. In what other book shall
we find such divine ethics, such wise and
just laws, such god-like charity, such equal-
handed justice, such truth in sublime, un-
blushing nudity; such lofty heroism, such
living po[-]try as in the Holy Writ? Its al-
legories are inimitable. Its parables a code
of wisdom all would do well to study. It
was written in a country, and a language
abundant in allegory and figure of speech;
such was the common language of Egypt
and Palestine, where its chief scenes are
laid. What books on earth can compare
with Ezekiel, Isaiah, the book of Job—the
sublime, the mysterious book of Job; and
the climax of all, the Revelations. But 'tis
vain to attempt enumerating from first to
last it is the Book of Books. Sir Walter
Scott says:

		"Within this awful volume lies
		The mystery of mysteries,
		And better had he ne'er been born,
		Than read to doubt, and read to scorn."

	Both men and women of the Scriptures
are models to copy from; there is no false
gloss thrown over them, they are brought
out in bold relief, the head as well as the
foot is t[-]ld; no flattery is seen in those pag-
es; no tinselled drapery, "no stars or gar-
ters" to dazzle the eyes, and hoodwink the
judgment; no titles of honor, "Their epitaph
is their name alone." We say Moses, and
the law-giver of Israel rises before us—
Isaiah, and the sublime prophet and poet of
God is there in all his glory—Ezekiel, the
man of sublime visions, and the avenger—
'Tis useless to individualize where all are
great and good.
	I have ever observed that a Bible—a
Scripture reader, one who-desired and pray-
ed for the inspiration of the spirit of God
as they read and studied these sublime re-
cords, I note that they spring at once to a
higher degree of intelligence, a larger
heart, a more expanded brain, a more com-
prehensive judgment; and in consequence
a more extended charity and a greater ap-
preciation of the sublime, the beautiful and
the glorious; because the soul has been
awakened and cultivated by the Book of
inspiration of the Spirit of God. The Bi-
ble has ever been a text book and our laws
are framed from its code—and between the
Old and New Testament there is a perfect
harmony. The sacred observance of the
Sabbath, is one of the testimonies of the
divine origin of the Holy Scriptures.
"Wherefore the children of Israel shall
keep the Sabbath, it is a sign between me
and them forever." Such are the words of
God Himself, Exodus 31st chapt., 16-17
verses. Nothing can be more emphatic

[Column 3]
than this; I feel a time is rapidly approach-
ing when the divinity of the Scripture will
be proved by marvellous demonstrations,
for it is written "Heaven and earth shall
pass away but my words shall not pass
away." Let the doubting, and more, the
infidel, study these mysterious pages, let
them pray, if they are not accustomed to
that holy exercise, try it, "prove all things"
and believe that though you may take them
in hand with a scoff, it will be a testimony
to you, that you "remain to pray," and your
words will be those of one of old, "Help
Thou my unbelief."
—June, 1878.


