HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN THE issue of EXPONENT June 1st, the re-
port of sericulture at Rockville should have
stated five ounces of silk worm [-]ggs instead of
dozen and instead of silk-worms for sale, it
should read silk worm eggs.

	LETTERS, ESSAYS, Relief Society Reports,
and other items laid over until another is[-]ue.
The Qua[-]erly Conference occupies considera-
ble space but we feel that it is [-]ssential to be
particular in publishing these minutes for the
benefit of the country societies.

	MOST OF the Sunday Schools of the different
wards in the city have been recreating and rus-
ticating in the rural gardens in the vicinity, of
late, giving the children a fine opportunity for
a day's pleasure in the open air, with a variety
of amusements to add to their enjoyment.

	IN COMPANY with Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
S. M. Heywood and Mrs. B. W. Smith, we vis-
ited the Relief Society at Mill Creek, and Su-
gar House Ward on Tuesday June 25th. Ex-
cellent meetings at both places with a full at-
tendance of men as well as women. The sis-
ters are [-]ec[-]ming more and more alive to the
exigencies of the times and encouraging home
indus[-]ries, storing gr[-]in and all good works.

	THE ROYAL Baker, a pamphlet compiled by
the New York Cooking School, will give you
directions for making every variety of b[-]ead,
griddle cakes, puffs, muffins, waf[-]les, tea-bis-
cuits, buns, crackers, toasts, pastry, pies and
puddings, dumplings, fritters and pancakes,
meat pies etc; it contains 304 recipes how to
make the different kinds of ar[-]icles mentioned.
It would be valuable to housekeepers as refer-
ence.—Price 10 cts.

[Column 2]
	THE TABERNACLE Choir will give a con-
cert in the Tabernacle on the Fourth of July,
under the supervision of Mr. Careless, leader of
the Choir, whose well known talent for direct-
ing and arranging will give it popularity. Mrs.
L. Careless, Miss S. E. Olsen, Messrs. B. B.
Young, Mark Croxall, J. J. Daynes and other
vocal and instrumental performers will take
part in the performance. The proceeds are to 
be donated towards the building of the N[-]w
Tabernacle.

	MISS DORAH H. Byron, of London, England,
a lady traveling for pleasure, made us a s[-]ci[-]l
call on Monday June 24, to see and hear some-
thing of Mormons and Mormonism. Miss By-
ron has been making a tour of the United
States and Canada, has heard much said
against our people, especially the condition of
our women; she evidently intends to see a[-]d
hear for herself. She is interested in the wo-
man's movement, and expresses herself as [-]e-
ing astonished to see so much good being
done by Mormon women.

	ELDER J. F. WELLS, Pres't. of the Central
Committee of the Y. M. M. I. A., and Elder
M. H. Hardy, his Counselor, are about to start
on a tour into the country in the interest of
the young peoples' As[-]ociations. They will in-
terest themselves specially in seeking to ad-
vance the spiritual and educational interests of
the territory. They will visit Morgan, Sum-
mit, Rich and Bear Lake Counties, returning
by way of Cache, Box Elder, Weber and Davis
Counties, making it a point to meet with all
the As[-]ocia[-]ions wherever practicable. God
speed and bless them in their efforts for culture
and higher development among the young
p[-]ople.

	ON MONDAY, at 12 o'clock, June 10, we went
in company with Miss E. R Snow, to the
United States Court-room, with Sister Annie
Musser who desired to procure her s[-]cond nat-
uralization papers. We found it to be a very
easy matter to accomplish, and nothing un-
pleasant whatever connected with it, and
would adv[-]se all, the sisters who have not yet
become citizens to make no delay whatever, and
"go and do likewise." There are many good
and s[-]fficient reasons why women should be-
come naturalized as well as men, and our sis-
ters should comprehend it. To all the sisters
who have not do[-]e so we would urge upon
them the propriety of attending to it while
there is so good an opportunity.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D.
Young are making a tour in the interest of the 
Relief S[-]c[-]eties and Retrenchment Associations
through portions of Utah, Juab and Sanpete
Counties. They left Salt Lake City on Mon-
day morning June 17, held a meeting at Amer-
ican Fork at 2 o'clock p. m. the same day, and 
again in the evening, at Pleasant G[-]ove on
Tuesday, at Mona on Wednesday, at Nephi on
Thursday, and from thence proceeded to Foun-
tain Green in Sanpete Co. The meetings at
all points were numerously attended and much
interest awakened on the subjects of home-in-
du[-]tries, especially seri-culture, also storing
grain, and other departments of labor among
the sisters.

	SISTER VIENNA Jaques who resides in the
12th Ward of this city, and whose name is
mentioned in one of the revelations in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, was ninety-
one years old on Monday June 10. The next
day she accompanied the Old Folks Excursion
to Ogden. She is in excellent health and feel-
as if she might yet live many years. She
lives entirely alone, never having had any


[Column 1]

family, does all her own housework, including
washing, ironing and cooking, writes many
letters, and does a great deal of reading. Sis-
ter Vienna is very familiar with the Scritpures.
This last Spring she has made sixty-one
pounds of butter, and milked her own cow.
Vienna Jaques was born at Beverly, Mass.,
but resided in Boston when she received the
Gospel. She went up to Kirtland in 1831,
stayed six weeks, and was baptized while
there, she sent money up to Mo. to buy land
at that time. She returned home to Boston,
settled up her business, and went back to
Kirtland to unite her interests forever with
the Church. She was in Missouri, and Nau-
voo, and has shared in many of the persecu-
tions of the saints. She was formerly a Metho-
dist and had received what they term sanctifi-
cation previous to embracing Mormonism. She
is strong and full of faith in the principles of
the Gospel.
	THE FIFTEENTH Ward Relief Society gave
a Strawberry Festival on Friday evening June
21, which was a very pleasant affair. It was a
social reunion of the officers and members with
their husbands, brothers, fathers and the Bish-
op of the Ward. We were present by invita-
tion. It was conducted in a very pleasing
manner by Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President of
the Society, and her assistants in office. The
company were regaled with delicious straw-
berries and cream-cake and lemonade. The
party met in the upper room of the Relief So-
ciety Hall, the lower part of which is occupied
by the Ward Store, rented for the benefit of
the Society. There are also two adjoining
rooms in the building in which they have
opened a Commission Store, and hope to secure
sufficient patronage to make it a success. They
have a great variety of fancy articles made by
the ladies of the Ward, ladies under-clothing,
childrens clothing, etc. The object is to fur-
nish employment for some of the poor sisters
and also be able to do something remunera-
tive to aid the Society in the way of funds.
Under the able and efficient management of
the President, the Society have accomplished
the building of a substantial rock granary in
which they have some grain stored, and a
good prospect for more the coming season.
The entertainment was an informal one, most-
ly devoted to conversation, a few speeches and
songs helped to make a variety. Closed with
prayer about 2 o'clock, and the company dis-
persed. Such social meetings will promote a
general good feeling and no doubt be of mutu-
al benefit. 
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall, closed for the Summer vacation
Thursday afternoon, June 20, with a variety of
exercises by the pupils in form of an entertain-
ment. Quite a number of visitors were pres-
ent; songs, music, recitations and dialogues,
filled up the programme. The children ren-
dered their several parts very creditably. Presi
dent John Taylor was present and made some
appropriate remarks, expressing his pleasure at
seeing the desire for improvement which was
apparent; congratulated Miss Cook on the suc-
cess she had achieved, and alluded in general
terms to the education of the young people of
Utah, the cultivation of their manners and
all that tends to refinement and progression.
We were pleased to see among the visitors
Apostles Wilford Woodruff, Daniel H. Wells,
Joseph F. Smith, also Elder O. F. Riggs and
Bishop George Dunford. It is always gratifying
to both teachers and students to see an interest
manifested in their endeavors to obtain knowl-
edge, and children need encouragement in the

[Column 2]

pursuit of learning as well as in other labors.
The Latter-day Saints desire to see their child-
ren stand high in morality and education, and
to be intelligently so, great care must be ta-
ken in their early training. Many people are
too careless of the discipline of their children
and entrust them to teachers who are not qual-
ified spiritually to exercise the highest influ-
ence over them for good. It is essential that par-
ents should be wise in this matter for the fu-
ture good of Israel. Miss Cook has certainly
done a noble work during her residence in
Utah, in the interest of education: she is thor-
ough in her system and has prepared many
young ladies well for practical work as teach-
ers, giving several an opportunity to assist her,
and thus having the benefit of her supervis-
ion and suggestions, to fit them better for oth-
er spheres of labor.


