HOME AFFAIRS.

	AMONG ITEMS we are unable to publish in
this issue are Society Reports from South Jor-
dan, West Portage, Toguerville, Tooele, East
Bountiful, Kanab, Payson, Franklin, Mendon,
Spring City, and also other articles. We are com-
pelled to state again that we do not publish
obituary poems, but occasionally a verse or two
when we can do so consistently.
	On the 17th of May, in company with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, we visited South Cottonwood
Relief Society. The day was a stormy one,
and was a hindrance, no doubt. to a full at-
tendance, but the meeting was nevertheless an
excellent one. The annual report was read,
which reflected great credit on the sisters.
This society have a lot of their own sown with
wheat, and it is looking very well indeed. We
learned that the Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was in good condition. We had a
pleasant time with the sisters, breakfast
with Mrs. Lucy Bullock, and took dinner with
Mrs. Cahoon, President of the Society; on our
way home visited the Germania Smelting 
Works.
	ON THURSDAY, June 6, we attended, in com-
pany with Miss E. R. Snow, the Relief Socie-
ty Meeting of the Second Ward. The meet-
ing was presided over with dignity by Mrs.
Sarah Wheeler; the minutes were excellent,
and showed the energy and activity of the sis-
ters in the labors of the kingdom. There was
a goodly attendance and a full and free flow of 
the Spirit of God. The remarks made by the 
sisters were earnest, strong and practical.
Miss Snow spoke impressively to the young
upon Celestial Marriage, and urged upon the
young people the necessity of entering into
these holy covenants; exhoted them above all
things to hold htis principle sacred, and never
upon any account speak evil of it. After
meeting the officers of the Society and invited
guests repaired to Br. Leek's residence and
partook of a suptuous repast.
	THE DESERET University closed for the year
on Friday, June 7. The exercises were enter-
taining, and showed the advanced progress of
the institution. Pres. John Tayler, Professors
Lewis and Riggs, Elder Joseph F. Smith,
David McKenzie, Wm. Jennings, George Rey-
nolds, C. W. Stayner, James Dwyer and some
others were present by invitation. Dr. Park,
principal of the school, read the names of
those who had been awarded certificates in the
Normal course, and the graduates in the Aca


demical course. We would like to give the
names here, but have not space; we noticed
with much satisfaction the name of Miss Mat-
tie H. Paul (one of our lady typoes) as a grad-
uate in Chemistry. An appropriate speech
was made by Mr. Roberts, followed with re-
marks by Prest. Taylor, Prof. Lewis, George
Reynolds, Regent, and Professors Toronto and
Kingsbury. Mr. Frank Cannon, in behalf of
a committee of the students, presented to Pro-
fessors Park and Toronto two pairs of beauti-
ful engravings, as a testimonial of esteem and
appreciation of their diligent labors. The gen-
tlemen responded happily, althongh taken en-
tirely by surprise.
	The Second Quarterly Meeting of all the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, on Saturday, the
22nd day of June, and will convene at 2
o'clock p.m. The President and Secretary of
the Board desired us to state that they wished
the Reports handed in from the several branch-
es as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the
work of the Secretary, and that everything
might be arranged in perfect order. The breth-
ren and sisters who are interested in promot-
ing women's interest in Zion are cordially in
vited to be present on the occasion. It is ex-
pected that, at this Quarterly meeting,
there will be time and opportunity to hear
from some of the brethren of the Quorum of
Apostles and other honored brethren, and also
from the presidents of the various branches of
the Relief Society and other sisters who may 
be present.


