THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	In the United States and Great Britain, the
women of this people are a popular subject of
conversation. What is said of them would,
we are told, make volumes were it written.
Domsetic drudges, ignorant, low and vulgar, is
the verdict passed upon them as a body. They
have no opinions, they are not in possession of
intelligence, isolated and kept in subjection,
required to fulfill only menial relations even
in marriage; these and a thousand other ab-
surdities are palmed off upon those who are
uninformed on the subject and are accepted as
genuine truths. Occasionally some person or
persons, are wise enough to investigate for
themselves while visiting Utah and not be put
off with somebody's "say so." But these cases
are so rare comparatively, that the general
public are not much enlightened on the sub-
ject. Some self-evident facts are now under-
stood concerning this people; because the con-
dition of the country has established them; it
was formerly known as a desert, it is now full
of flourishing towns, this is apparent; with
schools, manufactures, churches, railroads and
all the facilities for cultivation and improve-
ment. The Latter-day Saints are known as
the pioneers and motive power in these great
changes. Is it consistent to suppose that men
have accomplished so much towards beautify
ing and improving a country associated with
women of inferior calibre? No! The mothers,
wives and daughters have been and are, co-
workers in all these infinite and arduous under
takings. They have labored incessantly in
the interests of their famili[-]s, to use an elevat-
ing and refining influence; and that which
would tend to peace and good will. To-day
they occupy a position of which they may
justly be proud, notwithstanding all the as-
persions cast upon them.
	To be sure their educational opportunities
in the past, and the advantages of "so called
polite society," have not been such as wo-
men of the world have enjoyed, but shut up in
their mountain home, free from the evil influ-
ences which prevail to an alarming extent in
more densely populated and older communi-
ties, they have developed other capabilities
and powers of mind that have given them
strength of character and personal attributes
calculated to raise them in the scale of intel-
lect and intelligence, beyond those who spend
so much time and devote their precious God-
given talents to the frivolities and accom-
plishments of fashionable life, which all tend
to weaken instead of strengthening character.
	The peculiar exigencies, and experiences of
Mormon life have had a tendency to make wo-
men self-helpful, and self-reliant, and have
given them indomitable energy, and undaunt-

[Column 2]
ed courage, and these characteris[-]i[-]s prepare
them to use more discreetly any trust or confi-
dence reposed in them. They are fully aware
that any antagonism or defiance towards men,
would hinder instead of helping them, that
both must co-operate together for the mutual
benefit of all, for "woman is not without
man nor man without woman in the Lord,"
and they are engaged in the Lord's work. The
men of this community were anxious woman
should have the "franchise" believing it to be
just and right that she should have every op-
portunity to represent her own cause. The
many responsibilities placed upon the sisters of
this Church should awaken them to the neces-
sity of becoming conversant with the subject
of laws, governments, and the history of na-
tions past and present, in order that they may
use the ballot judiciously, and vote under-
standingly, as well as to maintain other privi-
liges and rights which they enjoy. One can
not be too well informed in regard to the laws
of nations and the relations of countries. No
woman should content herself with a simple
assertion from another, and feel she has no
time to read, or study and inform herself, or at-
tend the meetings held among the sisters for
general instruction. By prudently economiz-
ing time, every woman in the enjoyment of
average health, whatever her domestic cares
may be, can find some time for personal
culture, and it will promote health and happi-
ness both. A better knowledge of one's self,
of the relations of individuals to each other,
and their duty to God, with fervent faith in
His holy Gospel, will fit man and woman for
the truest enjoyment These attainments can
never be reached by sitting idly down and
waiting, they demand diligent and constant
action, and a rightful exercise of all the facul-
ties of one's nature.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
