NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEORGE ELIOT, the most popular wo-
man writer of fiction at the present time,
is busy upon a new work entitled, "The
Lifted Veil."
	THE NUMBER of arrests in New York
City for the year 1877 were 88,239; 22,000
were women, and 64,000, nearly three-
fourths of the whole, men.
	THE LUTTRELL bill was reported upon
by the Committee on Territories during
the last hours of the session of the Forty-
Fifth Congress. The paragraph disfranchis-


ing polygamists had been erased. The bill
is laid over, and women have the franchise-
in Utan still. It will be a dif[-]icult matter
to pass the bill at any time, on account of
the clause relating to woman's suffrage, for
the agitation of that subject is becoming
more general every day, and one step gained
in that direction will be held with tenacity
by those who are anxious to obtain univ[--]
sal suffrage, irrespective of sex. Congress
has adjourned for the summer, and ere it
again reassembles there will so much labor
have accumulated, that these old bills will
be secondary considerations, or forgotten
altogether.
	THE NUMBER of assaults upon women in
Washington is something to attract atten-
tion, and Justice Wylie, in addressing the
jury in one of these cases, used very severe
language. "He said that ladies, either
young or old, are no longer safe from insult
while walking alone in the streets of that
city, nor are the outrages committed alone
by representatives of the lower classes.
Some of those who are called respectable
are guilty of them, and they especially
should be made to suffer the full penalties
of the law. Young women, he said, on ap-
pearing alone on the streets of Washington
after dark, are attacked like the children
of Bengal, and these tigers in human form
do not stop to ascertain whether their vic-
tims are respectable or not. So serious has
this evil become, he said, that he is tired
of it; hardly a day passes that a case of
this kind is not either brought before him
or before the lower Court."


