THE INFLUENCE OF WOMAN.

	The influence of woman, intellectually,
socially, morally, and religiously, upon so-
ciety to-day is great. Woman has, indeed,
more influence than she is aware of.
	A smart, intellectual woman will draw
around her minds of all ages and classes.
All will feel anxious to listen to her
thoughts and views upon the various sub-
jects of the day. From the mind of an in-
telligent, elderly person she will gain a
warm sympathy and admiration; from the
mind of an ignorant person she will draw
out the dormant faculties, and make him or
her understand that to become a MAN or
WOMAN of intelligent influence, one must
strive after knowledge and enlightenment;
from the mind of a child she will bring
forth wonder and enthusiasm, and a desire
to cultivate thoughts or abilities; and every
one will feel that she is a person worthy of
imitation.
	Also, a lady possessing a social disposi-
tion will exercise over her acquaintance a
great degree of happiness and peace. If
she is friendly and affable, her companions
will long to be in her society; for there
they will feel that the world is not all shad-
ow, but that by her social ways she sheds a
ray of sunshine on all around her, and
makes all hearts glad.
	Again, a lady possessing a good moral
natnre imparts the same to her friends, be-
cause while in her company the topics of
converstion are of a character that will im-
plant in all hearts a wish to be moral in all
their thoughts and actions, that they may
be like her. Their admiration will invol-
untarily rest upon her, and they cannot
help wishing they possessed similar moral
characteristics, and will eventually aspire 
to merit approbation in unison with hers.
	And again, a lady whose character is de-
voted to religion, is one that will bring all
hearts into subjection. Each person will
feel that she has a tendency to inspire the
heart with feelings of a pure, holy, and vir-
tuous nature. By her noble conduct she
will create in other hearts a love and ven-
eration for God and his sublime laws.
She will cause those with whom she min
gles to think of their evil ways, and for-
sake them, and turn unto their Creator, and
serve Him and praise His great name for
the precious gifts He abundantly bestows
upon all.
	When a lady is in possession of all these
divine attributes, she is, indeed, one who
has great influence over man and woman.
Even the lowest and most degraded per-
son stands before her rebuked and penitent.
All who know her will reverence and love
her, and strive to be worthy of her esteem
and friendship.
	O how great is the influence of a mother,
sister, wife, or sweetheart! A mother who
has a refined and gentle nature, who has
cultivated her thoughts and abilities, and
lived a pure, religious life, will exercise an
influence over her children, and inspire
them to become noble men and women.
She will imbue their minds with the prin-
ciples of right and justice, and teach them
to be pure, aimiable, charitable, benevo-
lent, patriotic sons and daughters of God
possessing true moral force and sterling
worth and goodness. How often can a
sister, by kind and gentle words, turn a
brother's mind from evil, and cause him to
see his error and forsake it. And the
sweetheart, or wife, by her chaste man-
ners and refined tastes, bring her lover, or
husband, to see and acknowledge the cor-
rectness of her arguments, and the clear-

[Column 2]

ness and beauty of her views. A noble,
true woman can ever soothe the poor suf-
ferer on his bed of sickness, calm the
aching heart, cheer the despondent, and
hallow a joy or success. Within her own
home she is the crowning joy of all its in-
mates; there each heart turns to her for
solace and comfort. If there is any sorrow
she is the first to modify or allay it; if any
pleasure, her presence enhances it; her in-
fluence is felt for good wherever she is.
What would home be without a gentle,
sweet-tempered woman there, to arrange
everything for the family? To prepare
some little elegant surprise, or pleasure?
Without her elevating and refining influ-
ence there would indeed be a cheerless
void.
	And the aged grandmother, in her quiet
corner, is like a ray of light from above.
Her counsel is always esteemed, and her
advice acknowledged to be good. Yes,
woman's influence is great! How careful,
then, should she be that it is not of a low
and degrading nature, but an influence that
will tend to make all better, and more
worthy of the love they receive from God;
that it may make all around her aspire to
be great and good, to live intelligently and
honestly, to strengthen their abilities, en-
large their capacities, brighten their intel-
lect, and understand their individual traits
and the principles of divine truth.
	Oh, sisters! strive to be all that you pro-
fess, always study to do good, and let the
Spirit of God dictate all your actions.
	C. E. H.


