IN MEMORIAM.

	LYDIA PARTRIDGE, widow of Edward Part-
ridge, died on the 9th of June at 7, p. m., at
Oak City, Millard Co., and was buried at Fill-
more on the 11th. She was the daughter of
Joseph Clisbee and Merriam Howe, and was
born at Marlboro, Middlesex County, Mass., on
the 26th of Sept. 1793. Her mother dying
when she was about twenty-two years of age,
the family was broken up, she with one broth-
er and sister went to Ohio, where she became
acquainted with and was subsequently mar-
ried to Edward Partridge in the year 1819, who
was a batter by trade and carried on quite a
successful business at Painsville. They were
believers in the doctrine taught by Alexander
Campbell, and were identified with an organ-
ization raised up by Sidney Rigdon; at that
time they were in prosperous circumstances.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints, by Parley P. Pratt
in 1830, and her husband being called by reve-
lation to be a Bishop and locate in Jackson
County, Mo., Sister Partridge was left alone
with the care of a large family of small
children, and afterward performed the
journey with her children, which, to her,
in those days without the protecting care
of her husband, was a heroic under-
taking. The Bishop was required to devote
himself to the duties of his office, and his
property being used up, they were brought in-
to straightened circumstances. Through the
persecutions of Missouri, Sister Partridge was
compelled to make the journey to Nauvoo,
with her children without her husband. To
repeat the scenes passed through, the priva-
tions endured during their residence in Mis-
souri, and the exodus therefrom, would be un-
necessary as they have become matters of his-
tory. In Nauvoo Bishop Partridge died, and
there she also buried a daughter. Sometime
after she was married to Father William Hunt-
ingdon, whose wife had also died in Nauvoo.
They left Nauvoo with the first companies in
the exodus in Feb., 1846 crossing the river on
the ice with teams and wagons. At Mount
Pisg[-]h, on the route West, Father Hunting-
don was appointed to preside over those who
stayed there to raise a crop, and come on the
next season, but he was taken sick and died.
In the Spring of 1847, Mother Partridge and 
family, moved to Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river, and afterwards came to Salt Lake
Valley with Pres. Brigham Young's company,
in 1848.
	"Although their property was sacrificed in
becoming identified with the "Mormons," and
her husband had labored for the people and
had worn himself out in the cause, yet Moth-

[Column 2]
er Partridge was always loth to ask for assist-
ance, and labored diligently to support herself
and family, and was always found earning
something. She was exemplary in her daily
life, and was never known to be aught else
than a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, and
it is not known that she had a personal enemy.
In disposition she was quiet and unassuming,
and her good works were performed without
ostentation, but from an innate love of the
right, and the natural kindness of her heart.
Having been identified with the Church al-
most from the commencement, she was inti-
mately acquainted with a great many of the
Latter-day Saints who will ever think of her
with kindly and pleasing remembrance."
	Mother Partridge leaves a great number of
children, grand-children and some great grand-
children. Her only living son Edward Part-
ridge, is well known in this Church. He re-
sides at Fillmore and is First Counselor to the
President of Millard Stake. Sister Partridge
was one of the oldest members in the Church,
a veteran indeed, who has fought valiantly in
the interests of the kingdom of God, and she
has now gone to join the hosts of the saints
behind the veil, to rest from earthly toil and
pain, and enter upon another sphere of useful-
ness.

	ONE OF the saddest and most distressing oc-
currences which have ever transpired in this
Territory, took place Saturday last, June 22, in
Sanpete Co. A party of young folks and child-
ren went out upon a small lake not far from
Manti, in a boat. About one o'clock a terri-
ble gale swept over the lake, the party were
frightened, and rushed to the bow sinking and
capsizing the boat. Five from Ephraim and
six from Mayfield were drowned, only two
were saved clinging to the boat. It is said the
greatest exertions were made to save the par-
ties from drowning, men going out into the
water at the risk of their own lives. Names of
the drowned, as published in the Deseret
News.
	Oliver Oviatt, aged 22; Rosa Bella (his wife),
aged 16; Miss Nora Neilson, aged 9 years; Mas-
ter Jenson, son of Henry Jensen, aged 8; Miss
Williams, daughter of Jno. Williams, aged
10 years; Miss Stevens, daughter of Joseph
Stevens, aged 10 years, all of Mayfield.
	OF Ephraim.—Chas. Christiansen, aged 19;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Lars Anderson,
aged 16; Miss Bella Thompson, aged 11 years;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Je[-]s Anderson,
aged 11; Master Larsen, aged 9 years.


