	SAVOIA, NEW MEXICO, June 4, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: feeling that a few lines from
this [-]ar-off place might be of interest to

[Column 2]
you, or some of the many readers of the
EXPONENT, I take pleasure in sending
them, believing it to be the duty of every
sister in Zion to assist, by some means, in
the great Latter-day work. Our paper is
still read with great interest. It seems to
me I could not do without it now.
	It is three months yesterday since we ar-
rived at our new home. There are four
families from Utah and two from Arkansas
living here at present; and notwithstand-
ing we are separated from many of our
dear friends in Utah, we feel quite con-
tented, realizing that it is in the provi-
dences of a merciful God that we have
been called to build up the waste places of
Zion, and are in the enjoyment of peace
here in a wild Indian country. The
valley is a very pretty one; the hills
on all sides are covered with large and
grand old pines, while there are many
flowers to add still another charm, and ren-
der the scene more picturesque. I will not
attempt description farther, leaving it for
some one more capable. We have seen
but few Navajoes, compared with the hun-
dreds by whom we are surrounded. Those
that have called to see us appear kind, and
some have expressed a desire to come and
live near us. Until recently the Indians
have been afraid of us, as we have all had
smallpox—the disease having been brought
here by some emigrants early in the win-
ter. The malady, in nearly every case,
proved to be of a very mild type. For this
we also give thanks to our Heavenly Fath-
er. However, the past winter has been a
very trying time to some. The whole
family affected at once. If we are favored
with rain we will probably raise our bread
and quite a variety of vegetables. The
weather is beautiful, and the health of all
generally good. We miss so much our
good meetings with the sisters that we
have been used to. It would be such a
glorious treat to see the kind faces of some
of our dear sisters, and hear their wise
counsels once more; yet we must be pa-
tient and wait, though as some poet has
written, "The waiting time is the hardest
time of all."
	Dear Sister Wells, how grieved I was to
learn that Emma was dead, and even now
it does not seem possible I shall never see
her again on this earth. I knew and loved
her for myself; I can never forget her kind
face the last time we met—so full of sym-
pathy. It was last fall at the Ogden depot;
I was in the waiting room, stopping until
the train for Salt Lake City started. In
my arms was my poor baby almost dying.
In my sorrows I should not have noticed
her, had she not recognized me, and with
her usual kindness come to try and soothe
the poor little suffering one. He died in
the city, and now Emma has gone. You
had many dear ones and I only one, yet
their Heavenly Parent claimed both yours
and mine; and if the pure are all together,
there we know that they are happier than
while here. I have a dear mother gone
too, and I could not ask for two gentler be-
ings to watch over my little one than my
mother and your departed Emma. For-
give me for writing thus, I had not thought
to do so. We know in whom we trust, and
that we are living for the future more than
the present. May God bless and comfort
you and all who are tried in this life. Our
reward is sure.
		Yours with respect,
