PLEASANT MOMENTS.

	The influence of moments spent in pleasant
company, or among pleasant surroundings is
always elevating. Everybody is ready to ac-
knowledge the influence of plesaant people.
There is something invigorating and refreshing
in the society of people of pleasant and kindly
manners, even though they know nothing of
the rules of etiquette, and are not versed in
language, or science. They reflect themselves
and carry the sunshine of life with them,
which gladdens all that come within the radius
of its beams. But pleasant moments impress
themselves upon the heart, they linger in our
memory like some bright dream, and we recall
them again and again, and live them over and
over in imagination.
	Times, hours, moments, spent among scenes
that have engraven themselves upon memo-
ry's tablets form pleasant episodes in the his-
tory of individuals; they not only impress us
happily and add to our enjoyment then, but
ever and anon along the journey of life, in
moments of quiet, or it may be when sorrow
lays its hand in chastening upon us, these mo-
ments of delight rise up to bless us with their
tender reminiscences, and we draw around us
with fancy's picturing the loved ones who
were near us in the far-off time, and breathe
in again, as it were, the exquisite luxury of
the moments never to be forgotten.
	It is not always wealth, or its appliances, or
surroundings, that yield most real pleasurable
moments; often in the rustic cottage beside
the open fire of pine knots, or in some plain,
homely garden, or perchance, under the boughs
of some gnarled and unsymmetrical old tree,
the tender thought, the brilliant jest may have
been called forth, that will live in memory
while life lingers. How peculiar are human
emotions, and how curiously they affect the

[Column 2]

body and the mind. All persons that have ar-
rived at middle age, at least, will agree with me
that moments of past pleasure are as drops of
gentle dew, or as soft healing balm, and ever
kindle anew sensations of joy. Life's roughest
paths, beset with thorns and difficulties, are
made easier and smoother, and all trials more
endurable, by the brighter passages which now
and then intervene, in the shape of pleasant
moments. Perchance it is only a visit of some
dear, precious friend, or relative, bringing with
them a true heart and the genuine sympathy
that is ever pleasing to the recipient, and a
weight is lifted for a moment, and we breathe
an elevating atmosphere for a time.
	Pleasures are short-lived, it is said, but we
might all add many pleasant moments to our
lives by becoming more truly helpful to each
other. When we reflect how much pleasure
we are capable of enjoying and imparting, we
should be wise enough to husband all the plea-
sant hours we can, and while we gather to our
hearts the honey which distils from acts of
kindness and words of love and tenderness, let
us scatter around our pathway the fragrance of
the rich treasures we have received. We think
too little of each other, and grow too hard and
practical, methinks, sometimes, neglecting the
pleasant moments we might enjoy, lest we
should lose our chance of gaining some de-
sired object; but no amount of wealth, or luxu-
ry, or attainments, can over satisfy tthe soul, if
all is crude and severe and narrow in our home
and its associations. The humble peasant toils
the live-long day, and if when night comes a
loving wife greets him with a kiss, a smile,
and lights up his home with a joyful counten-
ance, such moments repay the toil, the hard-
ship, and lift the soul beyond labor, to revel in
the realms of domestic bliss.
	Let us garner up in the storehouse of the
soul, along with the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge, the bright and happy remembrances
of exquisite pleasures and moments of true
enjoyment, and though these may be gone
forever, yet in the retrospective view we take
of time, they will beam upon us and give
pathos to the eloquence of life's tenderest
touches.		AUNT EM.


