				SCANDAL.

	I feel impressed to write a few words on
scandal, which I hope will not be amiss. It
seems to be prevalent among Saints, as
well as sinners, to speak evil of one another.
And the question arises in my mind, Why
is it so? Why do we take pleasure in cir-
culating evil reports about our fellow crea-
tures? Are we not so constituted as to be
able to enjoy life while we see others happy?
Does their happiness and good reputation
hinder us from enjoying the same blessing?
Why do we allow envy to rise and rule
over our better natures, and seek to destroy
the character of a brother or sister? If
they have weaknesses, are we free from
faults? Are we not the children of the
same Heavenly Father, and striving to
reach the same heaven, the same glory and
exaltation? Why do we seek continually
to pull down and destroy the works of our
Maker? Is it not more noble to build up,
and spread peace and joy, comfort and hap-
piness, and strengthen the hearts of those
around us? Are they not human, and sus-
ceptible of joy and sorrow? Why do we
not observe the commandments of our Sa-
vior, and put on charity as a mantle, and
extend it to our neighbors? The revela-
tions say, "Without charity our righteous-
ness will profit us nothing." Charity cov-
ereth a multitude of sins. And if the
Lord, being perfect, can forgive us, how
much more necessary is it for us to forgive
each other, and hear with each other's

[Column 2]
weaknessas. We should observe the "Gold-
en Rule" and do as we would like to be
done by. We have a promise that the
measure we mete out shall be measured
back to us again.
	We may try to fool ourselves into the be-
lief that evil is not in our hearts, and we
may succeed in making others believe the
same, because of our smooth way of work-
ing, but the effect is the same. We should
not smooth the brow with one hand and-
undermine with the other. People may
not understand the workings of both
hands, but God sees all and knows the in-
tents of the heart, and will repay us in his
own time. We may sail along with flying
colors for a time, and feel secure in our
course, but the promise is sure and we will
reap our reward.
	Then let us examine our hearts before it
is too late, and cast from our mind all jeal-
ousies and envious feelings, and seek to
build up, and not magnify the faults of
others, but speak the best of all; comfort
and console, and prove ourselves blessings
in very deed. In blessing others we bless
ourselves, and it is the only road to true
happiness.
	There are none of us so very happy and
independent that we can dispense with
each other's help and sympathy. How
much unhappiness has been caused by evil
speaking; how much suffering for the want
of charity; how much evil is wrought un-
der the cloak of friendship. An open,
avowed enemy is preferable to a smooth-
tongued, deceitful friend. The first cannot
do one-half the injury that the other can.
We might say, the Lord deliver us from
our professed friends, and we have not
much to fear from our enemies.
	Slander should be done away with among
those professing to be Saints. It is an evil
that few, if any, are exempt from. It cre-
ates prejudice, and I believe it causes more
trouble than anything else. It makes peo-
ple feel as though they were guilty, by
its powerful depressing influence, when
they are not. Now, I would exhort all to
cease, or put away this evil, and not con-
demn in others what we justify ourselves
in doing. Let us cultivate love towards each
other, and turn our attentions and abilities
in doing something useful, that we may
earn a blessing, instead of a cursing. It
may be necessary that offences come, "but
woe to them by whom they come." These
are the words of the Savior; let us beware.
	There is enough good work to be done
to keep all busy, and none need to infringe,
or crowd, upon another. Our motto should
be "live and let live." There should be
happiness enough for all. There is no need
of one's trying to monopolize—stepping on
somebody else in order to be the highest.
We can never build ourselves up on anoth-
er's ruin; it must be done on true worth or
not at all. Our Father in Heaven is just;
He is no respector of persons; one of His
children is just as precious in His eyes as
another, providing their works are as good.
The innocent will eventually triumph, and
the guilty be punished. These words
should sink deep into our hearts, for there
is much need of a reformation; more than
we are aware of. We know our own hearts
the least of any.					ENG.
	May 24, 1878.


[Column 1]
