VISIT TO BEAR LAKE VALLEY

	I left home Thursday morning, April 4th
to visit my children in Bear Lake Valley, go-
ing by way of Evanston. I heard part of a
conversation between some gentlemen on the
cars, which was very amusing. There was a
little man aboard who seemed to be very ner-
vous and inquisitive; on arriving at a small
town he said, "What place is this?" A gen-
tleman from Salt Lake City (not of our faith)
replied, "This is Echo" The little man asked,
"Are there any Mormons here?" The answer
was "I do not know; if there are any they will
not hurt you." He then gave him a short ac-
count of the building up of the town while they
were building the railroad, the number of in-
habitants, how many men and women and
how many Mormons there were then; he him-
self living there at the time. "Now," said he,
"I live in Salt Lake City, with Mormon neigh-
bors all around me; they treat me as well as
they do their own people. One thing I like
about them they support their own poor, and
sustain their won church, while other denomi-
nations are always begging of me. They make
me pay them money every year, while the
Mormons let me alone." "Well," said the
nervous man, "I don't know anything about
them, only what I hear in the East. I would
like to go to Salt Lake myself." The other
gentleman said, "You would find there a good,
industrious people."
	At Evanston I took the stage, arriving at
Woodruff about eight o'clock, and was kindly
entertained by Bishop Lee and family. Sister
Lee, who is President of the Relief Society,
said that they were raising stock to sell for the
purpose of raising money to buy wheat to store
away, as it was too cold to raise much grain in
that valley. I commended them for their en-
ergy  and wished them success in the enter-
prise, and I counseled the other Societies in
Bear Lake Valley to go into the same business.
	The next day I went to Paris, a distance of
sixty miles, arriving on Friday, and found my
children all well. During my stay I met with
the Relief Societies of the First and Second
Wards in Paris, also with the Young Ladies'
Associations. I also visited Montpelier, St.
Charles, Ovid and Bloomington, and accom-
panied President Budge, by invitation from
him, to Liberty, and assisted Bishop Austin in
organizing a Relief Society in that place. I
told them they were behind the times, and
living beneath their privileges in being so long
without an organization. President Rich and
Budge are very much interested in the labors
of the sisters, also the Bishops that met with
us. Paris is improving very fast. On my re-
turn trip I met with the Mutual Improvement
Association of Meadowville. They having no
Relief Society, I told the sisters by all means to
have one organized by the Bishop, explaining
to them the difference between the two or-
ganizations-the Relief Society being organ-
ized by the Priesthood, to assist the Bishops in
looking after the poor of their Ward, as well
as other important duties they were called up-
on to perform, while the other was expressly
for improvement among the young; morally
and spiritually. I was everywhere met with
love and kindness. We had much of the Spir-
it of God in our meetings, and all felt bl[---]
and benefitted. We had a pleasant trip home
in our own carriage, my husband and part of
his family being with me, arriving about eight
o'clock Sunday evening, May 6, finding all
well, for which blessing I am truly thankful to
my Heavenly Father.
