[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: RESOLUTIONS. | Author: Unknown]

RESOLUTIONS.

	We, the females of the North Canyon
Ward, whose names shall hereafter be at-
tached to this article, ever feeling a lively
duty in our Redeemer’s kingdom, and for
the general welfare of Zion’s cause, do mu-
tually unite ourselves together for the bene-
fit of the poor, and all other charitable pur-
poses wherein we can prove ourselves use-
ful to our fellow creatures. Under the
name of the Female Relief Society of North
Canyon Ward.
	Whereas for the better organization of
our Society, would appoint the following
officers who shall hold their office during
the pleasure of said society.
	First a president who may choose two
counselors, a secretary who shall keep a
correct account of all the transactions of
said society; a treasurer who shall keep an
exact account of means that may be paid into
her hands, and also paid out and to whom.
And make a full report of receipts and ex-
penditures once in three months or oftener
if said society shall require it. And further
all laws and by-laws that shall be made for
the regulating of said society shall be in
force until repealed by said society. And
we in our united faith will ever pray that
the blessing of the Holy Spirit may ever
attend our every duty.
	Elizabeth Barlow was sustained as presi-
dent; Louisa Grant as first counselor; Han-
nah Hollbrook as second counselor; Phebe
C. Sessons as secretary; and Lucina Sessions
as treasurer.
	There were seventy-nine sisters became
members. We held fourteen meetings and
did a good deal of work for the poor. One
poorfamily received $60 68 in the short
time we held our meetings. On account of
the move South these meetings were dis-
continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WEDDINGS AND RECEPTIONS.
“Marriage is the life-long miracle,
The self-begetting wonder daily fresh.”

Thers’s an old saying that marriages
are made in heaven whether this be so or
not, we hope and believe the union of Fay
and Minnie will be as happy and as lasting
as though it really were all planned in the
celestial world.
The marriage ceremony which united
for time and all eternity La Fayette T.
Whitney and Minnie James was solemnized
in the Salt Lake Temple at high noon
Thursday, September 17, 1903.
In the evening a brilliant reception was
at the residence of the bride’s parents,
William and Minnie Horne James. The
bride was sweet and charming in her
simple white dress, with her spray of
lovely white roses, but she was no sweeter
than the young bridegroom, whose purity
of life and high ideals entitle him to be
loved and honored by all, and so this
young couple are equally matched, and for
their future we bespeak happiness and pros-
perity with rich experiences.

[Column 2]
The reception was literally crowded with
the many friends and relatives, and there
were presents galore, it would be quite
impossible to name them.
The most distinguished guest present was
the bride’s grandmother who looked as
fresh and happy as the younger women,
although she counts her years far beyond
four-score. May the new bride be as cele-
brated, when she shall be a witnees of her
granddaughter's marriage.
Mr. and Mrs. Whitney the newly-wedded
pair have a snug little cottage under the
brow of the hill just where they have
played together when happy children and
Bishop O. F. Whitney (brother of the bride-
groom) wrote for this special occasion,
“Chimes and Rhymes,’’ setting forth the
old-time sports when City Creek canyon
was different most of the merrie company
then assembled played thereabouts many
games and pranks. But Fay and Minnie
have their own neat little cottage where
the bride,
“Across the threshold led,
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”

The marriage ceremony that united Wil-
liam H. Foliaud and Grace Freeze was sol-
omnized in the Salt Lake Temple on Fri-
day, Nov. 6. 1903, by President John R.
Winder. The bride is the daughter of Hon.
James P. and Lillie T. Freeze, and is a
great favorite wherever she is known, the
young man is fortunate to secure so lovable
and charming a life-companion, not only
for this world but for eternity.
May their voyage through life be as free
from storms and adversities as it is possible
in gaining the experiences preparatory to
higher advancement hereafter.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
told,
When two. that are link’d in one heavenly tie.
With heart unchanging, and brow never cold.
Love on thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”

But we would say love on thro’ all the
endless ages of the life to come.
A brilliant reception was held at the
bride’s home in the evening and all passed
off merrily, the bride in simple white aud
roses was sweet and charming and the
guests were joyous there were some very
beautiful songs sweetly sung by Miss
Emily Larson, and there was good cheer in
abundance and the congratulations and
good wishes for the young couple were
genuine in tone and sentiment if half of
them come to pass life will be to this bridal
pair one perfect holiday. God grant it may!
There were numerous gifts more than it
is possible to count or to mention, but the
gifts of love and friendship after all surpass
silver, or china, or rare ornaments of costly
value and these young people we are sure
deserve all the love and all the material
gifts that were showered upon them on that
memorable day.

“But happy they! the happiest of their kind!
When gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings blend!"


[Column 1]
