First Prize Poem Song of Shree Mlarys (A Sonnet Sequence) Sylvia Probst Young Mary, The Mother And while a wonder star shone from above, You watched beside the little manger bed; Your eyes aglow with tender mother love, You marked the petal cheek — the wee, fair head You were the first to guide his eager feet — With quiet pride you watched as he would share With any child that played along the street. When day was done you knelt with him in prayer; Page 10 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 11 You knew his world — each singing brook and flower; His sudden laughter, and his quick embrace; In work or play, you shared a golden hour When boyhood's light was glowing in his face Oh, tender Mary, never was another. So heaven-blessed as you whom he called Mother. Mary of Bethany Within your gracious home the Lord found rest, And quiet peace, away from pressing care — With you he was an ever welcome guest, And always you would bid him linger there. While Martha, in her quick solicitude, Looked to his comfort, but you wanted first To hear his word, for you it was the food, The drink, for which your hungering soul had thirst. He was your teacher and your friend; you knew His calm simplicity, his gentle ways; How precious was the time he spent with you — A crowning joy to brighten all your days. You saw him raise young Lazarus'from the dead — Your gift was spikenard — his, living bread. — Mary Magdalene When morning light was breaking through the gloom, When spring's new green had touched each bush and tree, You came with those who loved him to the tomb, With those who followed him to Calvary. You who had known the dear Lord's healing hand, The many, kindly ways his love was shown; Bowed in your grief, how could you understand The angel's word? — You tarried there alone, Thinking the gardener talked to you, but when Your name was softly spoken, your heart cried With gladness, for you knew the Savior, then, The resurrected Lord — the Sanctified. Oh, Magdalene, the wonder of that dawn Would light your life when earthly joys were gone. HK AK OK NE OK 3 Three Marys, highly favored of the Lord — Who walked with him and gloried in his word.