Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1901 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NartTIOoNs" THE GREAT AND GOOD QUEEN VICTORIA: The death of Queen Victoria has caused not only sincere sorrow and deep and heartfelt mourning in Great Britain, but there is a universal feeling in all the civilized world that the greatest sovereign of her time has departed. In fact she is spoken of as the greatest without making comparisons.... Her life reads like a fable almost, so grand have been her virtues and so numerous the honors that have come to her unsought by herself.... —Editorial THE NEW CENTURY When in the dim, gray East shall rise, The morning of thy birth — When thy first dawn steps from the skies Upon the hills of earth — Shall waiting nations breathless stand Oppressed with haunting fears, Of what thou holdest in thy hand, Thou coming Hundred Years? —Jennie Betts Hartswick AN ALLEGORY: I stand on the narrow strip of land called The Present, between the great Ocean of the Past and the mighty Sea of the Future. Behind me the circling waves stretch backward into the fading distance of the unknown. Before me the ripples break at my feet, casting here and there a pebble or a sparkling shell from the Eternal Shores. There are great ships on the ocean behind me, all sailing into my port of The Present; some bear the name of Science, some of Learning and some of Art; in most there is the sound of pleasure and the incense of selfish thought. How few there be that fly the pennon of peace, and fewer still that carry at their mast-head the Figure on the Cross. —Susa Young Gates RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN OAKLEY, CASSIA COUNTY, IDAHO: The meeting was held in the new society hall, the principal object being the dedication of the building to the purpose for which it was erected, President Isabel Martindale presiding.... President Martindale felt pleased that the hall had been so far completed that we could have it dedicated, and knew that the Lord had blessed the society in the endeavor to build a comfortable place to meet in.... Stake President Louisa Haight was glad in meeting with the sisters, and that they had been blessed so much that they had been able to build so beautiful a hall, and that it was so nearly out of debt. —J. N. Price, Sec. Pro tem. HONORS FOR AN AUTHOR: Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was an honored guest at the banquet of the Daughters of Vermont on the last night of the old year, and was introduced by the president of the club, Mrs. Sallie Joy White, as one of Massachusetts', America's and the world's loved daughters. —News Note Page 34 RS. GOLDA MEIR, the _Israeli Foreign Minister, and delegate to the United Nations, is a respected leader in her own country, and is achieving much appreciation among world leaders for her efforts in behalf of peace. She has advised the heads of state of the newly independent African nations to forget the bitter experiences of the past and to build anew without the illusion that political independence will provide an "automatic solution to all problems." RS. HELEN POMEROY, a Latter-day Saint wife and mother, of Superior, Arizona, has been re-elected by the Superior Business and Professional Women, as Woman of the Year. For many years an officer in the organization, Mrs. Pomeroy has been active in many community and Church organizations, and works as secretary in her husband's law, real estate, and insurance office. ARA NELSOVA, one of the world's greatest cellists, made her debut at the age of eleven, with the London Symphony Orchestra. One of her most acclaimed selections is Ernest Bloch's ""Schelomo." The composer recently requested Nelsova to play this composition at a London festival in his honor.