(siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 31—"Thou Shalt Not Speak Evil of Thy Neighbor, Nor Do Him Any Harm" (D & C 42:27) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 4, 1961 Objective: We must guard constantly against idle or evil words which might harm or undermine another's character. HIS wise counsel comes from the section of The Doctrine and Covenants which was described by Joseph Smith as embracing the law of the Church. To avoid speaking evil of one's neighbor and to make sure that we do him no harm, is a fundamental law of intelligent human behavior. If, in our personal contacts with others, we want to spread love, friendship, understanding, and good will, we must practice this law. The story is told of a man who had circulated slanderous gossip about a neighbor only to find the story was not true. Conscience stricken, the man sought the advice of a friend to see what could be done to retrieve the evil words he had spoken. His wise friend told him to take a bag filled with goose feathers and to drop a handful of feathers at each door in the village. The man followed this advice and returned to his friend for further instructions. "Now take your bag to each house once more," replied the friend, "and gather up each goose feather you have dropped." The man sadly shook his head and said, "That I cannot do for the wind has scattered them over the countryside." Like these scattered feathers, gossip and unkind words are almost impossible to retrieve. Regardless of how we may try to take them back and, even if we sincerely repent, it may be impossible to undo the harm that has been inflicted. This is true of any type of slanderous or misrepresented statements. Each of us has two words in her LESSON DEPARTMENT vocabulary which can be easily and lightly spoken to spread rumor or a bit of gossip. These two words are "they say." 'These are such innocent words rarely deliberately spoken to do harm, but, when they preface even the most casual remark which might misrepresent or undermine the character of another, they can do damage which may never be fully repaired. Down through the ages, the Lord has been concerned about the human tendency to speak ill of others. Through his prophet Solomon, we are reminded that five of the seven things which the Lord hates are actions associated with speaking evil and doing harm to our neighbors. The five are: a lying tongue An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren (Proverbs 6:17-19). Jesus added force to this warning when he said:. Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned (Mt. 12:36-37). He also gave us the key to our personal responsibility in this respect when he said: By)... How canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye (Luke 6:42). One of our Latter-day Saint hymns also advises us: Should you feel inclined to censure Faults you may in others view, Ask your own heart, ere you venture, If that has not failings, too. ("