GOOD COMPANY.

	It is very necessary for us to keep good
company, if we wish to bear a good name. For 
we are generally judged by the company we
keep.  The happiness of our lives depends to a
great extent upon our training in that direc-
tion.  We should seek the society of our
superiors, and set a good example before our
younger brothers and sisters, and all with whom
we may associate.  Habits of this kind once
formed will cling to a boy or girl through life,
and are of great value to them.  Example must
go hand in hand with precept.  If a person
once falls into bad company and becomes wild
and reckless, he is very apt to lose the spirit
of the Gospel and go down to destruction. On
the contrary if we seek good society, we will
grow up to be good men and women.  It is by
what we ourselves have done (and not what
others have done for us) that we shall be remem-
bered in after ages.  It requires a constant
watch, and a prayerful heart, on our part to
enable us to keep the right spirit at all times,
for the evil one is always on the alert.  If we
allow ourselves to fall into bad company we will
soon be found drifting in to their ways. There
are many reasons why we should keep good
company, parents may be called away from us
and leave our little brothers and sisters who
must be cared for, how nice it would be to have
an elder brother or sister who would set an ex-
ample that would be worthy of their imitation
and teach them to be orderly and industrious,
in this way they would soon be a great help and
grow up to be self-sustaining.  How much
better this would be than to set examples be-
fore them that would bring them down to shame
and remorse. There are other reasons why we
should keep good company, it is more economi-
cal, if we fall into bad habits we will be apt to
spend more than we make. We should avoid
the fashions and follies of the world, excessive
dress, the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor
are wasteful as well as injurious to the sys-
tem; rather let us use a part of our means in
paying tithing, building temples, etc. We
should not use bad language or slang phrases,
more especially the young ladies, these are very
bad habits and are degrading to the human
mind.  Therefore they should not be indulged
in.  If we will read good books, be humble and
prayerful, we will be built up and strengthened
by so doing, and we will not be very apt to fall
into bad company.  There is an invisible pen
always writing over our heads, making an
exact register of all the transactions of our
lives, not our public conduct only, but the in-
dulgence of our private pleasures, our secret
thoughts and idle hours shall be brought into
account.  Therefore it stands us all in hand to
be noble in word thought and deed. The
Gospel has been revealed for the express pur-
pose of giving us power to control ourselves.
The Lord has told us that if we will seek unto
Him He will aid us to conquer every evil in-
clination and wrong desire.  If we will pursue
this course we will find that our path through
life will be much happier, and we will have
many more friends and will secure the favor of
the Lord.
