ADDRESS TO W. S. A. AT OGDEN.

Mrs. President Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I congratulate the women of Ogden on
having organized an Association for political
study and advancement in the science of
government.  I realize fairly perhaps how
much prejudice and opposition there will be
to encounter, and difficulties to surmount and
overcome in the pursuit of a purpose which to
many seems unwomanly and out of place.
But women are in reality amenable to the laws
of the country in which they dwell, and if
property owners, as many are, they are taxed
to help maintain the laws, while perhaps
totally ignorant on all these subjects, having
no representation and getting no practical ex-

[Column 2]
perience, except to pay taxes; such women are
scarcely prepared for a sudden change of which
perchance they had never thought or dreamed,
and of which they had no fore-knowledge.
But the women of Utah and many of you
whom I see here to-day have had an experience
in the practical use of the ballot.  But in our
day many changes are being brought about,
and one of these is woman's place in the great
world of thought and action, in the home, in
the state, and in the nation for suffrage has
become a national question.  We sometimes
speak of it as woman's era—so much has been
and is being done to elevate and help woman-
kind.  The world is growing wiser every day
in regard to woman's position.  In fact there
has been a vast improvement in the last fifty
years,  in woman's status educationally, in-
dustrially and politically.
	The laws of several of the states in this great
Republic of which we Americans boast so 
much, have been essentially modified in regard
to women and children since the women them-
selves have been agitating the question of politi-
cal equality.  I do not say, nor do I expect, 
that when women vote, all the evils that 
afflict society will be remedied or removed, nor
that all oppression will cease; but I do believe
that women have a right to use their influence
towards making the laws that are to govern
them and their children, and should have the
privilege of having a voice as to who shall
execute the laws of the land, and how the taxes
shall be applied and in no other possible way
can woman exert as direct an influence for
her own and the public good as with the ballot
in her own hands; and I do most firmly believe
that woman's moral and spiritual nature will
impress itself with a recognized force upon all
questions in which she is permitted to par-
ticipate, thus helping to refine and purify the
political atmosphere which envelops the nation.
	I am aware that it is said by men that
women vote now, indirectly through their
husbands, brothers and sons, but who would
not rather wield the power herself even were
such the case, and especially when, as a literary 
lady of wealth and influence informed me in
Washington, the only vote she had at the polls
was through her colored coachman;  her
husband had been killed in the war of the 
Rebellion, and she, a lady of culture and re-
finement as well as wealth—was denied rep-
resentation though she paid heavy taxes—and
she was not even sure her servant voted on her
side of the question.  Such cases and similar
ones are very common.  Woman likes best to
act her own part and if there is a point to be
gained in political matters,  her vote is one
more and might turn the scale.
	John Quincy Adams said, in defending the
political petition of the women of Plymouth, 
that "women are not only justified, but exhibit
the most exalted virtue, when they do depart
from the domestic circle, and enter upon the
concerns of their country, of humanity and 
of their God."
	In the days when women voted in Utah, it
was very commonly remarked by us, that our
individual vote was equal to that of any man's,
no matter what his ability, or  his political
position.  And to all those who understood
and appreciated the franchise, it gave a feel-
ing of independence, that was in it-self an
elevating power.  Men will assuredly respect
women's opinions more, when they know they
can give them expression at the polls.
	American men are everywhere reputed to
be more tender and indulgent to women than
those of any other land; socially, they elevate
them to a very high plane, even giving them
the title of "queens of society," though these
same men will  not admit their wives to their
club rooms, and are shocked to hear of women
voting;  but will this social distinction out-
weigh  the ballot, and give them influence,

[Column 3]
such as equal suffrage will give?  Verily no?
Who does not know better, that has watched
the tide of human affairs carefully?  What
woman of common sense, would not rather be
the equal of her husband than to be called
pet names?  Besides, every honorable man
respects a woman more, who is his equal in
intelligence,  than one who is his inferior.
The old rule of woman's weakness and man's
power, will be done away with many of its
seducing influences, and attendant  miseries,
when women have equal rights with men.
	There are many men everywhere yet to be
converted, to this new, or comparatively new
doctrine, of woman's equality or emancipation,
and would like her to  believe still, that she is
sweeter,  and dearer, and more lovable, when 
she keeps in the old beaten track of domestic
life, and never aspires to anything beyond the
boundary of her own domicile.  But this will
scarcely answer for the mothers, whose children
are growing up, and about to take their part in
the world's great drama.  Then, there is some-
thing to be done; and more things to be thought
of than  looking sweet and demure; and what
man would not wish, at  such a time, that his
wife were really prepared to take up a goodly
share of the burden and obligations.  And
how many women are there in the world who
must even take them all; widows, and those
worse than widowed, whose husbands have,
notwithstanding all the sweetness given, all the
deference shown them,  given themselves up to
the demon, alcohol? Then,  in such a home, is
it not absolutely necessary that the wife be
strong-minded, as well as physically strong,
to carry the load of life along?  And who is
to represent her and her interests at the polls?
Her vote is needed then against the dramshop.
Such instances are not rare; they may be found
by the thousands in America, as well as in for-
eign lands,  They are too sad to dwell upon,
but they are solemn facts nevertheless.
		*	*	*	*	*
	And when women sit at ease in luxurious
homes and say they have all the rights they
want, and are disgusted with those who are not
content,  and who are interceding  for the
ballot, they simply shut their eyes and ears, to
the cries of the wronged and oppressed; they
forget, or ignore, the Savior's words, "love thy
neighbor," but to many, even of these de-
luded ones, an awakening comes, sometimes
suddenly,  and too late,  they find perchance,
they too,  are left, by death or misfortune,  to
battle with the  world.  How much better to 
have been prepared.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	If women are fortunate enough to marry a
man who supports them,  and gives them all
the rights they want, for the services they
render in  love, it  is well.  But if he fails to 
do this, would it not be  better were they pre-
pared to be self-sustaining?  Especially tf they
have equal pay for equal work, which, it seems,
they never will have, until they have the ballot
in their own hands.  That is one of the im-
portant matters to be adjusted, and working
women themselves do not seem to be aware of
this fact.  Many of them are afraid of the
question of Woman's Rights, and will say, "I
have  a perfect dread of women who are
always wanting men's places," but they  are
quite willing  to accept men's wages, neverthe-
less.
	However were men and women all agreed
in every relation in life, and the world march-
ing on with flying colors, as it were, to victory,
even then, woman's word should be as potent
as man's, and her voice in all matters of  the
home, the state, and society of equal impor-
tance. And there need be no fears of collision
because men and women both go to the polls,
any more than because they go to the theatre
or church together; for so long as men retain


[Column 1]
their magnificent physical organizations and
proportions, and as long as women possess
their sensitive, sympathetic, maternal tem-
peraments, just so long as these distinctions of
sex exist, that great primal force which
binds men and women, will continue to at-
tract them to each other. It has been said,
and truly, "If there be one thing of which
nature is careful, she is careful of her types,"
and while "that likeness in unlikeness sub-
sists which is at the base of all physical at-
traction, there is little fear of sexual rela-
tions being either reversed or annulled,"
but let woman as well as man, know how to
protect herself, and stand on an equal platform.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age, once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself, while His eye
watches her. 
	Margaret Fuller, one of the earliest advocates
of the higher education of women in America,
said, "One hour of love will teach a woman
more of her true relations, than all your
philosophizing. These, said a great writer of
our own day, are the testimonies of women
who had studied Greek, and were only the
more womanly for their study,—illustrating
the idea that the greater includes the less.
	The Duchess de Fontanges is described as
being, "as beautiful as an angel and as silly
as a goose." Men worshipped her beauty, but
despised her in their hearts, and she certainly
could not have arisen to any greatness upon
her own merits.
	What we want most at the present time, is to
understand political questions and privileges,
and make ourselves better acquainted by
study and discussion, with the laws of the
land, and the government which taxes us, and
protects us in our rights, or professes to do so.
	It is said, if women are strong-minded, that
is if they should vote, because that is the sum
and substance of the matter, that they will
neglect the home, and will not cook the dinner
and that is said to be a necessity for man; at
least, the poet tells us so, and by-the-bye that
poet was a man; that man can do without
everything except cooks and dining—he
give it beautifully in these words.

	We may live without poetry—music and art,
	We may live without conscience, and live without heart,
	We may live without friends’ or may live without books
	But civilized man, cannot live without cooks.

	He may live without books, what is knowledge but
		grieving?
	He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving?
	He may live without love, what is passion but pining?
	But where is the man—that can live without dining!"

	For the seventeen years that the women of
Utah voted, I never once heard it stated or
argued that the bread was poorer, or the home
neglected, or the husbands shirts without
buttons, or less economy in the household, as a
consequence. In fact, everything went on
much the same, only a little better. Primary
meetings and Conventions were more interest-
ing, and there was a fairer chance of getting
good men in office, and not nearly so much
worry over elections as there is now-a-days;
therefore, it must have been a great relief to
men, instead of a disturbing element.
	In arguing the question of woman's equality
the inference is usually drawn from the family,
and mainly the husband and wife, utterly ig-
noring the fact, that men and women were
human beings before they were husband and
wife, and that they had formed ideas, views,
and opinions, and arrived at an age when they
exerted an individual influence, known and
felt in the great world of mankind, if only
among their immediate circle; but in speaking
of equal suffrage, this fact is very seldom

[Column 2]
taken into consideration. It is invariably the
plea that it will create domestic broils, pro-
mote dissension, provoke quarrels, etc. We
all know very well that there are thousands of
women in the United States, who never have,
and very likely, never will marry, for various
reasons unknown to us, and which we have
not time to discuss; who is going to represent
the interests of all these single women? cer-
tainly not the single men, they have too many
interests of their own. In my own native
state, Mass., there are thousands of them.
They have lives to live, work to do, interests
at stake and they need the ballot as a lever
to help them in their struggles for bread-
winning or other pursuits, or for protection.
	What does Emily Pfeiffer say to the members
of Parliament in Great Britain. "Necessity
has presented itself to the women of our gen-
eration with talons and beak more formidable
than those of the eagle, who drives the young
one from the nest. They have not sought the 
shelterless strife with opposing prejudices and
interests, but have been forced into it by the
incontrovertible, law, which pushes the tribes
of men over barren continents, and out upon
stormy seas. It is hunger the mighty maker,
which is urging our women upon new paths,
and driving them upon a way which they would
not, to the fulfillment of a destiny they know
not. With this force behind them it is im-
possible, that they should turn back, impossi-
ble that those before should resist their impul-
sion. They have been crowded by their own
numbers out of the penfold in which their ac-
tivity was enclosed, and forced to seek the
equivalent of their labor in an ever widening
sphere. In making the experiment of their
fitness for untried work, they have had to face
odium and abundant ridicule from those they
hold dear. Their efforts to train themselves
for higher and more remunerative labor has
encountered the opposition of a jealously
guarded monopoly, and the claim for citizen-
ship now formulated though enforced inde-
pendence has rendered it a right—may be
met,—seeing that it lacks the element of
material force which, still enters largely into
human affairs, on many sides with indifference
and on some with scorn. But the stream of
tendency which sets in the way of woman's ad-
vance is irresistible, and the vital rational prin-
ciples incorporated in her claim could in the
end win alone in the struggle with material
resistance."
	Other remarks were made beside those em-
bodied in these notes, but the main points are 
included herein.
						July, 1st, 1889.


