FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
TO LEVI W. RICHARDS ESQ., 20th, WARD, S. L.
			CITY, U.T.
Kind Sir: 
	Without wishing to worry you, it is with
pleasure that I avail myself of the time I have
now to give an outline of the late trip I have had
an opportunity to make. I am very well physically,
and though I have not any considerable confi-
dence in a harvest shortly to be reaped among the
Armenians—with whom we all labor—to the ex-
clusion of Brother J. M. Sjodahl an intelligent
gentleman in Palestine at present—yet I am feel-
ing well and put in every moment of my time to
qualify myself for whatsoever may in any ap-
parent probability devolve upon me.
	After visiting numerous relatives in four days
which seemed short indeed—in N. Y., we left that

[Column 2]
place and had (ten of us) as fine a trip as I have
ever had at sea though I have made eight or nine
ocean passages in the finest seasons. In France
I spent some time among acquaintances and rela-
tives (father and junior sister). Italy I hurried
over, having lived there over a year. In Greece I
spent nine or ten days. It is a progressive little
state, the Greeks have a wonderful fondness for
Americans, and a strong desire to imitate the in-
stitutions of the U. S. The population of the
whole Hellenic Kingdom (Greece) amounts to less
than that of N. Y. city alone; viz. two millions.
	In Cairo I spent a few days agreeably. Egypt
is a wonderfully prolific country—at times while
there I ceased to wonder that Israel should have
longed for Leeks and Onions of Egypt. They are
sweet, juicy and tender, especially so are all vege-
tables there raised in early spring before the rays
of the sun are very perpendicular and (strong).
	Traveling on the Mediterranean on deck
(economy) I caught colds several trips, but that
all wore off in the thirty-five days I stopped at Mt
Carmel, Palestine, in the German “Temple
Colony.” The latter hold to a theory like this
“Spiritual Israel,” should be “temporally gathered
to the Holy land, to build up "Temples to God”
which means, say they—cultivate spiritually
bodies in which the Holy Ghost might reside!
They are neat and nice folks, but greater dis-
semblers and hypocrites than they may be aware
of. There are three resident saints there now,
(Germans) who treated me well and raised $26.
for my trip to Aintab.
	Living is cheap in Turkey (inland) 15 cents a
day for palatable, if not fine food; and rent, a
fine, large, house two meeting rooms and back
room, kitchen, large, finely paved yard, garden,
water fountain etc., $30 a year. We have rented
for one year—that is, our President has.  I did
not have any opportunity of visiting Jerusalem.
However, from amplest testimony I can say that
it is a wonderful Religion-mongering den, and a
trap for the credulous. So Bethlehem—there they
sell a soft calcareous rock to miraculously cure
mammillary ailments.
	Mary sat on the earth suckling Jesus—a drop
fell to the ground and the whole soil in her im-
mediate neighborhood was converted into milk
(dry) and is now sold for the purpose stated—May
the patient (woman) have faith, or no faith, she re-
mains uncured of course!
	Palestine is the Rendez-vous of many scamps
and a few Pilgrims from every country almost.
	Brother Richards, you will understand that this
letter is not written on a table, but I am sitting on
a floor, with my legs crossed, and writing this on
my lap, like a Chinaman might do, the pen is also
a Turkish arrangement. We have well attended
meetings, hundreds come sometimes, they listen
and seem delighted, saying how strange and
beautiful your doctrine is; but why do you not go
to the heathen? We have the gospel you know---
even if it is not all true, yet our object is good,
and we will be saved, etc., etc. Except one or
two persons they neither oppose us nor join with
us—no hatred, no love. A strange people.
	The Turks are a sober, steadfast but apathetic
race. There is a Tartar (Chinese) element in
their blood. The Tartars conquered the country,
and though they do not wear a uniform cue yet
many shave the whole head, leaving only a scalp,
and to supply uniformity they wear Fez’ some
light colored, some dark, designed originally to
correspond to the color of the skin, thus repre-
senting—by proxy—the skin of the head sup-
posed to be shaved; and to represent the cue, a
fine silk tassel hangs on each Fez or skull cap---
such we missionaries wear too, to conform
somewhat to local custom.
	I recieve an occasional paper from Utah; and
am pleased to see matters brighter. In a late
“Star” I see a contribution from “Lula” very nice

[Column 3]
—She, yourself and friends have my most sincere
regards.
	Regards to Brothers Wm. Salmon, W. H.
Tovey, G. M. Ottinger, T. B. Lewis, Father
White, and those ladies and others who were so
kind to me, I hardly realized I had friends until
in the hour of need.
	Sincerely and very respectfully yours etc.,
					CHAS. U. LOCANDER.
Aintab, Alepps Distr., Turkey, May 25, 1889.


