A GENTILE’S OPINION.
	
Mrs. Wells.
	Dear  Madam.—As we have now settled down
here for some little time, before commencing our
passage across the Pacific, I avail myself of your
permission to pen a few lines. And first I would
say of yonr people, that I think they will bear
very favorable comparison with any community
we have seen in America, in health, and in happi-
ness, whereas their industry is proverbial. They
have all the appearance of British health, with
the mentality of the Americans, and that is a
combination of character which ensures the
greatest amount of ability to work, both mentally
and physically; your buildings, public and private
show an amount of individuality of taste, I have
seldom seen anywhere, and never in such pro-
portions. Your streets and footpaths are rather
weak points in your surroundings, being too
dusty and uneven, but as one of your people in-
formed me, you do not like to waste money in
paving the streets, until the sewers are laid to
drain the City. This does not alter the fact that
the streets are disagreeable to walk across, and
your footpaths might be improved, and prevent
injustice to your abilities, if judged by them. 
	In respect to your immediate mission, “The
“Rights of Women,” I wish you every success,
especially if you also advocate the right perfor-
mance of duties, for unless knowledge of woman's
duties are accompanied by specific performance,
her rights will be useless in her progressive im-
provement.  A lady writer in the July number of
"The Century" touches upon this topic in a slant-
ing kind of way, under the title of "One Reason
of the Inefficiency of Woman's Work" but it
wants to be presented to the average mind, in a
much clearer and more forcible manner than she
has done it there. Both my reason and my incli-
nation favor the placing of women on the same
equality as men, but I can see it will be neces-
sary for them to exercise their reasoning power,
more than has hitherto been the case, and to keep
the emotional faculties more subservient to the
intellectual if they intend to keep side by side in
the contest for employment in the future.
	With kindest regards, believe me,
				yours faithfully,
								W. R.
	Please remember me kindly to Mrs. Zina
Young.


