ON THE WING.

				New York City July 4th, 1889.
DEAR MRS. WELLS:			
	Lest you frown when we meet, I will try to re-
port myself. At Phelps I ordered the Papers
giving general account of the Centennial Celebra-
tion sent to you. Meeting  kindred, the majority
of whom are stragers, reresentatives of different
branches of the family tree, which took root in
New York soil a hundred years ago was a deeply
interesting occasion.
	Visiting Ancestral Cemeteries and the Hill
Cumorah, was the next chapter, thence to Newark
and Sodus, for a few days. And thence to this
the Chief City of the Nation. We have devoted
a week to the study of some of its more prominent
features, we will leave many interesting features
unexplored. Have visited; in short St. Patrick’s
Massive Marble Cathedral, Metropolitan Museum,
Obelisk, Cleopatra’s Needle, Madison Square
and chatted with the eccentric Geo. F. Train
Trinity Church, St. Paul’s Church where Bishop
Potter is said to have rebuked the President. On
Sunday we went over to the Brooklyn Tabernacle
and listened to the far famed Rev. Talmage. He
impressed me as a thorough student of human
nature throwing his line for the prize of popu-
larity. Visited the elegant Marble Equitable
Building Custom House and many notable build-
ings. On Broadway called at the Phrenological
Journal office had a pleasant interview with Mr.
Sizer who has long been a strong pillar in sustain-
ing that institution, Mrs. Wells was not at the
office but I left your message for her.
	Went to the Battery, and Castle Garden which
was a long time landing quarters for the Saints.
Called at the Publishing House of Mrs. Jenness
Miller and investigated her dress reform system,
thence to the Tomb of Gen. Grant, which is kept
freshly decorated with flowers and strongly
guarded at government expense.
	I write while Lizzie packs the trunks, we leave
this eve, by Central N. Y. via. Niagara for Detroit
(where we visit friends) with our faces and
thoughts turned homeward. We were pleased to
meet Brother and Sister Wilcox here, Brother
Wilcox seems to be successfully prosecuting his
medical studies. Yesterday we went to the Saints
head-quarters on Long Island, spent a pleastant


hour with Sister Soper Pres. Relief Society there,
and Brother Woolley a wide-awake missionary
from Salt Lake. A heavy rain is falling and the
effects of rain have been on all our borders. With
regards to loved ones at home.
	Your wandering friend,
