HEPHZIBAH.

					III
	She wandered fancy free, o’er hill and dale,
		Or lingered lovingly beside the brook;
	This little wood-nymph of the lowly vale,
		Culling wild flowers from ev’ry sheltered nook. 

	Mrs. H. was a woman of strong character-
istics, tall and dignified in figure, though gentle
and womanly in manner and bearing, her mind
decidedly practical in the full sense of the
term, she proved equal to the emergency that
had overtaken her so unexpectedly. She took
into consideration just what was necessary to
be done to economize and live within her
means, and lost no time in carrying her plans
into execution. Her close attention to the
business of her husband, for the purpose of
helping him, had given her an experience that
but few women in that that day had the opportunity
of acquiring. From the time of her husband's 
death she was so engrossed with cares and re-
sponsibilities that the younger children were
left to themselves, and Hephzibah had ample
opportunity to pursue her idle ways, or only
to visit the old home and wait on grandpa to
hat and cane, and enjoy the freedom of the
orchard, garden, meadows and woods she loved
so well. She was far enough advanced in her
studies to read everything that came in her way
and was passionately fond of books, and stories,
she really believed in fairies and elves and
wondered why she could not be visited by them.
	Her grandpa gave her the most perfect liberty
to rummage over the musty old letters and
manuscript stowed away as useless in the
garret. Tied up in bundles carefully, though
faded soiled and covered in dust, were the writ-
ings and correspondence of her grandmother
for whom she was named, and she would feast
upon these with childish delight, gleaning hero
and there, out of the way and romantic ideas
that accorded with her own peculiar notions.
The neighbors looked on in utter amazement
and wondered what would become of this pre-
cocious child, who was subject to no control,
and who had withal such seemingly exalted
notions, that it totally unfitted her for the com-
panionship of children of her own age. Mrs.
H. would sometimes say to the old Major,
“What shall we do with Hephzibah, she holds
herself so above our country ways?” “Strange
child very, not at all like other children, time
will develop her more fully, she will make her
way in the world;” but he stubbornly refused
to make the sacrifice of her company, or listen
to any plan suggested to induce her to conform
to the usual manner, or condition of little girls.
“I cannot part with her,” he would repeat
over and over.” In spite of her oddity and
her quaint notions she was more sought after
than any of all the village children. She
could repeat more verses and tell more wonder-
ful stories, and knew where all the bird’s nests
were, and when they were ready to fly, and
she never tired of talking in her own way, to
old and young, and with all her lack of con-
formity to other peoples’ ways she was a general
favorite in the village. Even her mother be-
came convinced at last that Hephzibah was of
a different temperament and organization, and
unlike the rest of the family and said to her
older daughters who were solicitious about
the child, “She cannot conform to our habits
of discipline, she must not be forced to submit;


grandpa would say "she is like her grand-
mother's family, she has the Hastings blood
in her veins, we shall see what the future will
unfold." What a puzzle the child was to them
all!
	“What can Hephzibah do with all these
fine aristocratic notions without money," said
her rich uncle to the mother on one occasion
when paying his regular visit to the homestead
he found her installed there as though she
were actually the mistress of ceremonies, posi-
tively  receiving her uncle on his arrival with
the air of a little Duchess bred and born.
He undertook to remonstrate with his father,
telling him how absurd it was to have "that
child assuming so much authority, where she
had no right;" but all to no purpose, the old
man's affection for her was almost an adoration.
So the selfish uncle appealed to the mother, he
knew her to be wise and discriminating and he
carefully inquired what course she intended to
take in regard to Hephzibah's future. "She
cannot go on long in the way she is doing now,"
he said, "for she will soon be developing into
womanhood and you have too many boys and
girls to give her any special advantages; by
and bye you will not be able to control her
at all, if indeed you are now, which appears
doubtful, and the child is far too delicate and
sensitive as well as too proud to push her own
way in the world. You are certainly doing
her a great injustice; she must go away from
here to school, where she will be properly con-
trolled. Once gone from his sight, father will
forget all about it, just like a child, and she
will familiarize herself with other scenes, and
it will change everything for the better." 
	The uncle seemed to think his sister-in-law
coincided with his views, and acquiesced in the
scheme of sending Hephzibah away, but she
did not, far from it—nor did she intend to fol-
low his advice in the least, and when he had
gone she soliloquized thus: "It would never
do to send the child away, while her grandpa
lives, it would break her heart, and the old
gentleman would refuse to be comforted and 
mourn himself to death. She must remain un-
til time brings some change about."
	Friends of the family one after another 
came to offer advice, until Mrs. H. grew weary
of their solicitations, and her replies were such
as to convince them, she knew best herself what
to do with her own, and though some of the
presistent ones felt self-condemned, yet they
tried to make amends for seeming interference,
by praising the child's ability and would say
"we are all interested in her future for we can
see she has more than ordinary talent and it
should be developed in other ways, than hid-
ing herself away in nooks and corners and talk-
to the brooks and birds and trees." 
	Mrs. H. was perfectly well aware of the
situation of affairs, and anxious to have her
little daughter receive an education in the best
schools, and she knew, better than any one
else could, as mothers almost invariably do,
that Hephzibah could not submit to be sent
away from grandpa among strangers, and at
the same time conform to the rigid discipline
of the school-room. She loved her little girl 
with all the warmth of her generous motherly
heart, and her interest in the child grew more
intense still, when she learned how others felt
concerning the child's future, and that she was
such a general favorite in the village. How-
ever she would not yield in the least, and pur-
sued the even tenor of her way, regardless
alike of their admiration of the child, or advice
concerning her welfare. And what of Hephzi-
bah? she was totally unaware of it all, and
still indulged her childish peculiarities; she
never played as other children did, or much
with them at all, though she had likes and dis-
likes, strong ones too, among her playmates as
well as older people; the boys of her own age
were rather fond of annoying and frightening her
[column 2]
when they found her alone in the fields, but
even the mischievous boys held her somehow
in a sort of adoration, and would bring her
the earliest wild-violets and longest-stemmed
water-lilies she loved so well, and thus even the
most bashful ones manifested their boyish
appreciation of her love of the beautiful in 
nature.
	Descended from the staunch old Puritan
stock, with all their severity of character, it
seemed strange that without any predilection
on the part of her parents, she should possess
such enthusiasm on subjects so foreign to the 
habits and customs, as well as the disposition
of the people with whom she associated and
among whom she dwelt. But with all her
weird fancies and rose-colored aspirations, she
had inherited from the Pilgrim fore-fathers and
fore-mothers those traits and attributes, that
must ever lie at the foundation of whatever is
lofty in motive or purpose; honesty, integrity and
a conscientiousness in all her thoughts and
feelings, that gave a moral tone and balance to
the ideal and spiritualistic and kept her within
the bounds of reason even when as she grew
in years, impulse uncontrolled would have led
her into a labyrinth of difficulties.
			[To be continued.]


