WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
		BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
		THE CORONATION CHAIRS.
	These are choice and ancient relics. In that
battered chair, the larger of the two, have
been crowned most of England’s sovereigns.
The famous seat was made for Edward I, by
Edward the Painter. It is made of wood, with
four lions carved at the base, and is decidedly
disfigured, giving evidence of hard usage.
Names and figures are rudely cut upon it. It
would seem that insignificant people in earlier
times had the same propensity to seek immor-
tality in that manner as at present. When
used at coronations ornamental covers are
thrown over it. The only time it was ever re-
moved from its present position was when
Cromwell was installed lord protector, in West-
minster hall, thus making the installation of
that great man as prominent and distinguished
as his career. Shakespeare refers to the chair
in Henry VI. It is where Eleanor says to her
husband Humphrey: “Methinks I sate in seat
of majesty, in the cathedral church of West-
minster, and in that chair where kings and
queens are crowned.” Queen Victoria sat in
the same chair at her coronation. The corona-
tions take place in the center of the chancel.
Beneath the chair, is the Stone of Scone, an
object of no less curiosity than the chair itself.
It is not a stone of large dimensions; and was
used in ancient times at the coronation of the
Scottish kings.  The stone has had distin-
guished and various fortunes; there are many
facts and legends connected with its history.
Legend says that the stone was Jacob’s pillow
at Bethel, and carried from thence to Egypt.
Gathelus, the Greek,  came to Egypt and
married Scotia, and it is presumed that he had
something to do with the stone. He subse-
quently fled to Spain. Many years afterward,
as Brek was fishing off Iceland, he pulled it up,
and it was then placed upon the sacred hill of
Taroh. In 330 B.C. Fergus bore the stone to
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban. Later he
carried it to Iona. In the year 840 A. D.
Kenneth II brought the stone to Scone, near
Perth. All the Scottish kings were crowned
on it, until the time of Baloil. Edward I after
defeating Baloil in 1296, was himself crowned
on it. He had it taken to London, and placed
beneath the coronation chair, as we see it. The
[Column 2]
Scotch were naturally much offended at their
loss of the stone, and later it caused quite a
dispute between Edward III and David II.
The former consented to give up the stone, but
the people of London clamored so loudly about
it that he could return only the regalia. In a
recent book about Scone, published at Perth, is
the following:
	“There is a story told of one of the villagers,
still alive, who went to London on some busi-
ness, which being finished, he resolved on see-
ing some of the sights of the city. Among
other places visited was Westminster Abbey,
where was pointed out to him the stone of
destiny or coronation chair. After standing in
deep meditation for about a minute he accosted
an Englishman standing close by, rather
abruptly with, ‘Ye’ve nae richt tae that stane!’
	“'What do you mean, Sir?’ replied the as-
tonished Englishman.
	“ 'I mean what I say, an’ that’s ye’ve nae
richt tae that stane, because it wis stolen frae
my native toon,' thundered forth our friend.
	“‘My dear Sir, I cannot comprehend,' re-
plied the still more astonished Englishman.
	“‘Weel, Sir, if ye dinna ken, I’ll tell ye.
Ane o’ your thievish kings, Edward, took that
stane awa frae Scoon, an’ ye’ve never ha’en as
muckle honesty about ye as tae return it.’ ”
	He turned on his heel, and walked off, leav-
ing his friend to solve the problem as best he
could.
	It is interesting to trace the various migra-
tions of the famous stone, not to mention the
apocryphal part of the story of its coming from
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban (a fine ruin
which we have seen and elsewhere described),
to the time when the Scots were defeated by
the Picts, who took it to Scone, near Perth.
There it remained until removed to West-
minster abbey by Edward III. Thus we see
the famous stone to have been an epitome of
the momentous events which moved the affairs
of history; fittingly expressing the conquest
and unity of Scotland with England. The
other chair, which is of far later date, is occu-
pied by the consorts. It was made at the time
of Mary II.
	On the platform behind the chairs, are the
shield and sword of Edward III, carried be-
fore him in France; the latter is seven feet in
length. Other monuments within the chapel,
not previously referred to, are those of Almer
de Valence, Earl Pembroke, Aveline, Countess
of Lancaster, Edmund Crouchback, Earl of
Lancaster, son of Henry III.
		SHRINE OF SAINT ERASMUS.
	This is perhaps the most picturesque section
of the abbey. It dates from the time of
Richard II.
		         [To be continued.]


