BOX ELDER.
	(Synopsis of Minutes of Young Ladies Con-
ference held at Brigham City June 12th, 1889.
Pres. Minnie J. Snow, Presiding.)  Singing,
“The Spirit of God” &c.  Prayer by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, singing “How Firm a Founda-
tion” &c.  Upon the stand were Bishop O. F.
Whitney, Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, also the leading
officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.  Sister E. B.
Wells felt to speak in praise of the Young
Ladies of Brigham City and also to encourage
them to persevere in the cultivation of the
talents bestowed upon them that they might at-
tain to the spiritual perfection which they de-
sired.  Spoke upon faith, humility and the ap-
preciation of blessings and gifts, and entreated
them to listen to counsel and profit by the ex-
perience of the older sisters.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney desired to speak those
things that would be appropriate for the occa-
sion. “If this could always be so there would

[column 2]
be fewer dull meetings.  The spirit of God is
the spirit of truth.” Explained the parable of
putting old wine into new bottles—as applying
to teaching things that are not appropriate to
the occasion.  If we have intelligent ideas and
a mind open to the spirit it will clothe them
in fitting and appropriate language.” Spoke
on the beauties of true poetry; “it contains
everything that is lovely, chaste, and true.
Mormonism is full of poetry; it is God’s mode
of teaching truth for the conversion of men. 
Christ gave teachings in poetry to make im-
pressions on the mind.  You can learn from
nature in all her beautiful forms; they are
Revelations form God. God’s universe is built
upon symbols.  The unseen is greater than that
which is visible.  The object of our mission
here is to get back to our Heavenly Father.
This earth is not the heaven of our God, it is a
foreign mission, a place of exile—We must
worship nothing here.  We will go back to our
Home.  Thus, death exists here.” Spoke of
the perishability of all things mortal. “Earthly
things are symbols of things Heavenly.  So
long as we are fettered by evil passions we will
be kept in prison. Woman as well as man is
a symbol of God; she is typical of the earth
itself.  Earth brings forth as a mortal mother.
Again woman is typical of the church of Christ;
by which our Spiritual nature is built up; as
woman sometimes brings forth children that
are wild and wayward so does the earth bring
forth thorns and briars.  The Church will
never be thrown down or given to another
people; nor will woman again be trampled upon.
Man is King woman is Queen and they will
reign side by side.”
	(Sister Lille Freeze desired our faith and
prayers that she might be able to speak in-
structively to us. “If I am sufficiently humble
I will be able to benefit you.  Each heart
knows its own trials and temptations.  Our
greatest triumphs depend upon a subjection of
our inherent evil passions.  Let us seek to pre-
form our spiritual duties and give our souls
liberty to exercise the gifts of God.  Try to un-
derstand the manifestation of God’s power and
comprehend the laws that govern them.”
	Sister Freeze being moved upon by the spirit
broke forth into tongues.  Sister Wells gave
the interpretation.  Meeting adjourned until
2 p. m. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Ephraim Jensen).
	At 2 p. m.  Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High.” Prayer by Sister Perry, of Mantua.
Singing, “Zion Stands With Hills" &c). A
correspondence between Mary Baird and
Fannie Grahel subject “Mormonism” was read
by the writers.
	Christena Keller, of Mantua, spoke on the
subject of Profanity.  Sister E. S. Taylor our
General Supt. offered her usual pleasant
greeting and expressed her pleasure in again
beholding us in conference assembled.  Her
desire was to bless and benefit, “and none can
do this without the spirit of the Father.  Many
of the young thoughtlessly plunge into the
world’s pleasures and in the end reap sorrow.
In the year 1869, President Young organized
these associations for mutual benefit. Let us
so improve that his exertions may not be in
vain.
	The evil propensities of our natures seem to
predominate, therefore it requires a constant
struggle to do good deeds and perform duty.
We must either progress or retrograde, and to
do the former humble, heartfelt prayer is
necessary.  Try and make duty a pleasure it
is so easy to do that which we have a liking
for.
	The Lord has blessed you wonderfully,
therefore you will be more accountable to Him
than are the people of the world.  Prepare
yourselves for the future responsibility that
awaits you, that of wife and mother.
	'Tis said “Man is known by the company he


keeps” as like cleaves to like. Those who have
good motives will feel uncomfortable in the
society of the wicked. Be careful in your
choice of husbands, ask the Lord to direct you
in this matter. We should keep our homes
orderly if we expect happiness and content-
ment. Study refinement at home, have a place
for everything and everything in its place.
	We have decided to establish a Magazine,
it is an accomplishment to be able to place
one’s thoughts on paper. Preserve your essays.
The best selections will be chosen from your
manuscript papers and published. We hope
each association will sustain it by their sub-
scription. May we seek to become that perfect
people who will be permitted to enter God’s
presence.
	(Sister Lillie Freeze: “I trust to be
strengthened while standing before you.)  Do
not feel discouraged if you cannot retain all
that you hear, come and listen and it will some-
time be brought to your remembrance. Be
cleanly it is conducive to health. Cook nutri-
tious food for your families.” Spoke briefly on
the “Word of Wisdom.”
	“In former days it was considered a mis-
fortune to be a woman, not so now. Cultivate
the courage “to do and dare” that which our
leaders require. We should humbly pray to
be guided in marriage, that our hand and
heart should never be entrusted to one who is
unworthy. We can have the spirit of discern-
ment if we seek for it. I believe one reason
why our people are suffering is through break-
ing the Sabbath day, it is a day of resting and
not of pleasure-seeking.”(Closed by exercising
the gift of tongues, to which no interpretation
was given.)
	Prest. Clawson: “The accomplishments of life
are useful and admirable, but housekeeping
should first be learned. I can assure you from
observation and experience that a well cooked
meal accompanied by good nature are the best
modes of securing coveted favors from your
husbands. Do not let a spirit of fault finding
creep into your families, if you do unhappiness
will exist. Do not bring disgrace and sorrow
upon your parents who have labored hard for
your support. Seek to add comfort to their
aged heads. Do not shun the responsibility of
married life.
	Pres. Charles Kelley said “those who have
addressed us have been inspired of God.”
Spoke of the crimes perpetrated at Pleasure
Resorts on the Sabbath Day. “May we be
free from these evils.
	(Pres. M. J. Snow said: “my heart is full of
gratitude to God for the manifestations of His
power and the blessings of this Conference.")
Spoke of her pleasure and interest in laboring
among the Young Ladies of this Stake.
'Owing to lack of time, some members on the
programme have necessarily been omitted.
May the kindly exhortations and wise counsel
given by our friends to-day, make deep im-
press on our hearts, and through renewed
energy and zeal in our lives appear.” (Con-
ference adjourned for three months.) Choir
and congregation sang, “I’ll Serve the Lord
While I am Young” &c. Closing pray by
Pres. C. Kelley.
			RAY EVANS, Sec. Pro. tem.


