					ELIZA FOX.

Our mother has gone to her long peaceful rest, 
Angels have borne her to the home of the blest;
Loved ones will receive her where friendships are
	rife,
Our beloved one has passed from death unto life.

Then why should we mourn her? Let God's will be
	done!
The Lord has released her, the battle is won;
Oh, would we recall her earth’s pains to endure
Our mother so noble, unselfish and pure?

Recall her? O no! Her afflictions are o'er;
Our Fatber, He knows what the future’s in store;
Perhaps He has called her some trial to spare,
Mothers’s earth-work is finished, she has suffered her
	share.

God grant we may live in her footprints to tread,
That when we've completed our work ’twill be said
As we say of her, "thou hast done thy work well,
Thy glory and honor no mortal can tell.''

It seems in mind’s vision, we almost can see
Thy spirit so bouyant, so happy and free;
Thy hand in thy guide’s as he softly says “come,'' 
And opens the gates to thy beautiful home.

Our minds reach out farther, we see thee within
And Frankie, thy daughter, impatient to win
From thy lips, the news thou hast brought of her boy
The vision is closed; we leave thee with thy joy.
								R. M. Fox.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT GROVE.
	Special meeting at the meeting house May
20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. After
singing, prayer was offered by Elder Jno. Todd.
Singing, "Now let us rejoice." President
Brown announced the presence of the visiting
sisters, viz: President Zina D. Young, also
President Mary John and Counselor Marilla
Daniels, of Utah Stake. The secretary then
read the minutes of the previous meeting.
	President John:—“There are many subjects
we could speak upon. We live in an important
time, and it requires us to be prayerful and
diligent continually, that we may escape the
great calamities that will come upon the in-
habitants of the earth. The ladies' journal,
the EXPONENT, is not supported by us as it
should be. This is a valuable paper and the
price has been reduced to $1.00 per year.
	Counselor M. Daniels:—“This is the first
opportunity I have had of meeting with the
sisters of this place. The first hymn sung es-
pecially, is full of inspiration; these old hymns
bring up happy reminiscenses of the early scenes
in this Church. Our persecutions to-day are
of a different nature to those endured by the
Saints in the rise of this Church. Let us meet
everything bravely, striving to perform our
duty with diligence, then it makes no difference
what our trials are, whether we live or die, it
will be well with us. Many of our sisters are
passing under the rod of affliction; let us help
them and extend to them the charity which is
the true love of God. Our mission is to cheer
and comfort each other, read good books and
inform our minds that we may act intelligently,
encourage the young to read the Church works
and become informed in the history of our
people.
	President Z. D. Young:—Very few faces do
I recognize—but we are all kindred spirits.
Paul says: "When I was a child I spake as a
child, I understood as a child, I thought as a
child; but when I became a man, I put away
childish things." We must become perfect
even as our Father in heaven is perfect.
Brother Joseph said: "The fulness of the
gospel includes the organization of the sisters."
You should meet together as often as twice a
month, as we are too apt to grow cold if we
only have monthly meetings. Sisters when 
you are necessitated to leave an office ask to be
honorably released. I do not like the word
"resign;" this is a retrograde word.
	The spirits of all those persons who held the
priesthood in any dispensation, are prepared
for the mission in the spirit world, then how
necessary is the proper care of our bodies, that
the progress of the spirit may not be retarded
by being placed in a weakly tabernacle. Our
mode of dress has much to do with our health,
we want to learn how to breathe, did you ever
think of that? Notice the difference in breath-
ing when we undress to retire; tight lacing is
very injurious.
	Sister Zina said many of our brethren say
that the trial of imprisonment is not so great
as what their families endure in their absence.
The finest flour is ground the hardest. If we
can acknowledge the hand of God in all
things, then He is our support. Let us exer-
cise faith to endure persecution. The Lord
will cause the wrath of man to praise Him.
The scene at Sister Taylor's grave in the ab-
sence of her husband was a sad one, though I
do not like to live in the past only as it reflects
sunshine upon the future. Sisters do encourage
the young girls to attend their meetings; 
do not puff the children up in pride, but rather
write proper thoughts upon the tablets of their
souls. Girls, do not be in too big a hurry to
leave the primary. The young ladies' associ-
ations are very important as its members are
the key to our coming nation. A certain chief

[Column 2]
caused the young men of his tribe to be highly 
educated, but the next generation had no
semblance of the education of their fathers.
The chief said he had made a grand mistake,
the mother should be educated as well, as they
are the ones who teach the children.
	President Young said many years ago
"there is silk in these elements." If we had
obeyed his counsel in regard to it we could 
have produced half a million in silk. By in-
dustry the children should learn to know the
value of a dollar. Sisters, study human na-
ture and gain the affections of your sons and
daughters, let young people be young, assist in
making amusement for them—half of our
troubles in controlling our children are caused
through ignorance. When I meet so many of
our aged sisters who have lived pure lives my
heart swells with gratitude, and thouh I
never was a Methodist, I feel like shouting
hosannah to God. I am proud of the Saints. 
	Senator Wise, in visiting the large taber-
nacle and viewing the grand organ, lifted his
hat and said, "Surely this is not the work of a
degraded people." While visiting in Provo
with an Eastern lady we called at the B. Y.
Academy, and she was surprised to see such 
advantages here in education and remarked 
upon the fine appearance of the young men.
Strangers feel the presence of the purity and
virtue shed forth among this people, now if we
live up to the Gospel truths it will bring us to
perfection. Teach our children if they are
sick to exercise faith to be healed, nurse with
mild herbs, and that not by the hand of an
enemy. If we hold our minds in proper con-
dition the truths we hear will be brought to our 
remembrance. Sisters, do not get discouraged,
President Young has said that to the real saint
there would be no greater trials than we have
already had. Let us cease speaking evil of
one another, and from all lightmindedness,
loud laughter, etc. We find the most beautiful
rules on etiquette laid down in the Doctrine
and Covenants.
	Bishop Brown said he had been highly
entertained in listening to the wise instructions
of the sisters, they, like the Elders, feel a
weakness in addressing the Saints. This is
right and proper, we should lean upon the
Lord for His Spirit to guide us. God says the
mission of woman is to bear the souls of men.
What a grand mission to bear! Teaching and
implanting in their minds the seeds of eternal
life, the influence of the mother stays with the
child through life; if these impressions are
wrong, that is likely to be the character of the
man or woman. In my mission, too, I found
the most devout Elders with unbelieving wives
unable to bring their children into the Church,
while if the mother is the believer and the
father not, the opposite is the restlt: The most
important duty of this organization is to look
after the poor and afflicted, also to elevate and
prepare the rising generation to bear off the
kingdom. The honest and upright of the
world will come to Zion to behold her beauty
and intelligence.
	President E. Brown made closing remarks:
Let us endeavor to live by the light we receive
from time to time.
	Singing—The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Bishop Brown,


Socrates called beauty a short-lived tyranny;
Plato, a privilege of nature; Theophrastus, a
silent cheat; Theocritus, a delightful prejudice;
Carneades, a solitary kingdom; Domitian said
that nothing was more grateful; Aristotle af-
firmed that beauty was better than all. the let-
ters of recommendation in the world; Homer,
that ‘twas a glorious gift of nature; and Ovid,
alluding to him, calls it a favor bestowed, by
the gods.—From the Italian.


