REORGANIZATION.
	(A meeting of the Relief Society was held in
Mona, Juab Co.,May 30th, 1889.  The Young
Ladies and Primary met with them by  invita-
tion.)
	Pres. Sperry and wife, Pres.  Paxman and
wife, of the Stake Presidency, and Stake Pres.
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
and her Counselor A. L. Bigler, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, and a number of other brethren and
sisters from Nephi, also Bishop John Keinke


and his Counselor Edward Hay were present.
     Sister Pitchforth presided:  After the sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Pitchforth stated the
object of the meeting.  "We have gathered to-
gether to show our respect and affection to 
Sister Eliza Somerville who has been a faithful
laborer in Mona for twenty-nine years, and has
presided over the Relief Society of Mona for
nearly twenty-one years.  She has in very deed
been a mother in Israel to old and young.
Now she is advanced in years and her health is
poor and she desires to be released from her
position.” Spoke in praise of Sister Somer-
ville's faithful labors and of her integrity, it
was motioned that we release Sister Somer-
ville from her labors and give her a vote of
thanks and our love confidence and  blessing,
and prayed God to bless her in her declining
years.  Sister Pitchforth put the motion after
it was seconded and it was carried unani-
mously.
     Sister Somerville spoke a few words, was
pleased to see so many young people, said to
 them, "always try to perform your duties.  Cul-
tivate good manners.  Nothing looks nicer in
young people than to be well-behaved.  Do
what the spirit of God suggests at all times."
     Sister Alice Bascome was nominated to be
President and Sisters Anna Lerwell and Sarah
Shepherd her Counselors. Sarah Williams
Secretary, Margie Much Treasurer.  Seconded
and carried unanimously.
     After the organization was completed, a very
good programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions, and short speeches from the visitors, was
rendered.  Sister Margie Much, in behalf of
the Teachers presented Sister Somerville with
a copy of the Book of Mormon, as a small
token of their love for her, and their apprecia-
tion of her labors.  Sister Emily Sperry spoke
in the gift of tongues and the interpretation
was given.  A class of eighteen little girls sang
very sweetly the exercise song, "What did
Jesus say."
     Next on the programme was a feast for the
“inner man” in the shape of a delicious picnic
provided by the good sisters, and blessed by
Bro. Bigler after which all partook with a 
relish and a social time of enjoyment was spent
in conversation.  Brother Much dismissed by
prayer and all returned to their homes well
satisfied with the afternoon they had spent.
							M. E. T.


