SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 10TH, 1886.

	Trembling and faint, in voice and hand,
		Poor mortals we, so weak and frail!
	Yet by our Father's grace we stand—
		All power is His, we will not fail.

	We will not fail, if by His word
		We live and walk the narrow way,
	And heed the teachings we have heard
		Of truth and wisdom here to-day.

	No selfish aim, or worldly pride
		Must claim our thoughts or win our hearts;
	The lowly Jesus is our guide,
		What peace and trust His love imparts.

	Though hard and heavy oft the road,
		Yet patiently we must endure;
	Great are the promises bestowed,
		And God is Truth, His word is sure.

	That law 'gainst which the nations fight—
		Polygamy, so named of men—
	Will live, for it is true and right!
		Though trampled, crushed, 'twill rise again.

	The word of wisdom was revealed
		For a grand purpose, and to be
	To us a strength, a guide and shield—
		Let us sustain it and be free.

	Oh! blessings on this humble group
		Of sisters, pure in heart and true!
	The King of heaven doth kindly stoop
		To own and bless each one of you.

	He looks upon the labors done,
		So small, we think, of little weight,
	And yet He smiles upon each one,
		And counts her portion rich and great.

	Father, to Thee, eternal praise!
		be merciful, our sins forgive!
	And teach us in Thine own sweet ways,
		That charity by which we live.

	Inspire our thoughts, direct our speech,
		Lead us by Thine own hand, and then
	No powers of darkness can o'er-reach;
		Praise God forever more. Amen!

   Interpretation given by Sister Rida Taylor; arranged and 
written by L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON LETTER.
	Before this reaches its destination the tele-
graph will have notified you what disposition
the President has made of the Utah, or anti-
Mormon bill. It has now been in his hands
for six days, and the wisest men are as unpos-
sessed of knowledge as babes, as to the disposi-
tion that will be made of it by him. The fact
that he is so long in returning it challenges the
confidence of those who have persistently as-
serted that he would sign the bill upon its pre-
sentation to him. It must be remembered that
the hands of the President are full, so full that
it is almost impossible for him to give as close
attention presumably as he could wish many
measures presented for his approval.
	The delay in the return of the Utah bill to
the House, even if he signed, gives justification
for one favorable inference—that his mind was
not made up on the question. The statement
has been made again and again in certain
papers in your vicinity that the President
would assuredly sign the measure if it came to
him, and that without delay. I have noticed
a disposition on the part of your public to
place some faith in the reports thus sent from
here. So far as I have had opportunity of
judging, these reports could not be more unreli-
able, and it is a matter of surprise that any
credence whatever is given them. The history
of legislation of interest to your people during

[Column 2]
this session must have demonstrated this fact
beyond a doubt.
	The President does not commit himself be-
forehand on any question, and his delay in re-
turning the anti-Mormon bill is unmistakable
proof that he deems its provisions of sufficient
importance to be carefully scanned. That it is
constitutional in all its details is gravely and
seriously questioned by many whose opinions
will and must command respect among the
most profound lawyers, and in several details,
some, it may be, practically unimportant to
your people, there seems little doubt that it is
constitutionally wrong and fundamentally
wrong and fundamentally bad. If President
Cleveland shall come to the conclusion that it
trenches on established principles, there is not
the shadow of a doubt that he will veto it. His
courage no one questions. And while all is
uncertainty, there seems to be a growing opin-
ion that he will refuse to sign it. This is
evinced by an occurrence in the House the
other day. A report had been started to the
effect that the bill had been vetoed, and the
statement ran through the House almost like
wildfire, and occasioned a great deal of com-
ment. Many of the members familiar with
the details of the bill do not hesitate to declare
that it ought to be vetoed, I think it might
be predicted with safety that if the bill shall
be vetoed, it will not be passed over his head,
and I almost feel like predicting that the Presi-
dent will return it unsigned.
	Whether, however, this feeling arises be-
cause of an earnest belief that it is inexcusably
bad legislation and a desire that it should be
condemned by the President, or because of a
solid reason, had better be left unexplained.
We are, the best of us, too apt to reason from
our prejudices rather than to them It looks
almost childish to suppose any man to stem so
wild a current as that which runs against all
things that bear the impress of "Mormonism,"
but Cleveland is a brave and honest man and
has already done things fully as surprising as
such an act would be.
	The Leagues in Utah do not want him to
sign it. Even if the redistricting and reap-
portionment of the Territory shall put power
into their hands it will not put all, and it is all
or nothing they want. Nor do they want the
bill even if every Mormon shall be excluded
by the test oath. I have been told that a
gentleman, Roberts by name, in Salt Lake,
and others who are citizens and Liberals, have
declared they did not want the elective even if
the Mormons were to a man shut out from the 
polls, the reason being that the men in the
mining camps would elect whom they chose
and the Leaguers, who have foisted themselves
to the front, would be cut out. If they do not
have the absolute control of the Territorial
taxes, treasuries and offices by a power which
is irresponsible and not amenable to the people,
if they, in other words are to depend upon the
suffrages of those who can vote, this gentleman,
Roberts and others, I am informed, have de-
clared they had a "d——sight rather the
Mormons continued to hold power." They
complain of the one-man power of Utah; they
go to the country and raise a storm against it
in behalf of the powerless miners of that
Territory, and in their bitter hearts and craven
minds they damn the possible approach of an
era that will see realized all for which they
cried so long and with such lusty lungs and
with such successful results. A reformer in
this age is a peculiar animal. He doesn't like
one man power because it is not the power of
his creation. With all appointive power in
the hands of a Governor, who hails from a
State that witnesses within its borders more
lawlessness in one week than has occurred in
Utah almost in its history, with these men who
are so anxious for the liberation of poor sinners
and enthralled Mormons, all would be well.

[Column 3]
But when it comes to dispelling Mormon en-
thrallment by placing in all and mighty power
the "honest miner" who contributes his fifty
cents a month to the fund which was inaugura-
ted that certain men might become the masters
of these very miners, who might enslave them,
the League leaders prefer "a—sight" that the
Mormons continue in control. There, reformers!
Bah! No young man with sense enough to 
keep out of an insane asylum would ever de-
sert the ranks of his father and friends to con-
spire and affiliate with a mob homogeneous
only in the desire for power. And this desire,
which burns so fiercely that no barrier which
principle and manhood might erect, would be
sufficiently high or strong to keep them from
overleaping it, if only they may hope for
power that can be used for vile personal ends.
Decent men can only pity the vain and igno-
rant youths who permit themselves to be lured
away by such; but when men of means and
recognized capacity can be ensnared, it is time
that they should be taken care of.
	I can promise, and I think with a degree of
safety, that there will, ere a great period
elapses, be a revelation or revelations regard-
ing these patriots; whom it were a compliment
to call mere scoundrels, that may cause many
an eye to open which has been closed in serene
and dreamy confidence. I name no names and
I am too clever by half to give any dates; but
the fuse is lighting and there will be an ex-
plosion. Stand from under, boys!
	Representative Tucker is here again, and
has not abandoned his determination to bring
up his resolution for a constitutional amend-
ment prohibiting polygamy. There remain
but five more working days for Congress, and
the appropriation bills are away behind. By
a recent decision of the chair, appropriation
bills take precedence over other matters, and
the chances therefore of recognition by the
Speaker for the purpose of calling up indi-
vidual measures is not as favorable as it has
been. It will not, however, be a matter for
surprise if he shall succeed in getting it up,
and some action being taken on it before the
adjournment.
	Tucker's chances for a judgeship, for which
he has been hankering, seem very slim indeed
His anti-Mormon rabies has not helped him
any.
	There has been a great demand for the
speeches made by Hon. R. T. Bennett in the
House, and Senator Call in the Senate. One
member of the House, not a Mormon affiliater,
ordered 3,000 copies of the last one given by
Representative Bennett as soon as it had been
delivered.
	While Senator Edmunds was talking in the
Senate Friday night, Senator Riddleberger in-
terrupted him and asked if there were not a
chestnut bell in the chamber. Comments are
unnecessary.—Deseret News.
						WALTON WOLD.
	Feb. 26, 1887.


I hold my conscience at  the will of no mor-
tal man.—William Penn.

	Whatever you dislike in another person,
take care to correct in yourself.—Sprat.

	Life is a quarry, out of which  we  are  to
mould and chisel and complete a character.—
Goethe.

	God meets those who are in the way; Satan
meets those who are out of it.—Harrington
Evans.

	Hearts are very much alike, and all need
lots of patience to keep them good and happy.
—Lousia M. Alcott.

	All false science, and all false philosophy is
refuted in the faithful preaching of "the truth
as it is in Jesus."—Dr. N. West.


