			COMMENTS. 

	Since it has been understood that the Edmunds-
Tucker bill had become a law by default, the
President of the United States withholding his
signature, the situation in Utah thus brought
about has furnished a topic for conversation, dis-
cussion and  argument,  in  many  places and
among friends and foes.  A municipal election
following so soon after in one of the principal
cities of the Territory, gave a good opportunity
for expression of sentiment at the polls.  It
seemed to be the opinion of prominent men op-
posed in their views to the veritable citizens of the
Territory, that the Latter-day Saints could not
possibly take the test oath, which was formulated
for them by members of the Utah Commission.
The sequel shows that a large number of them
could, and therefore the real design of the clique,
who manipulate things here and make represen-
tations against the Latter-day Saints to the Con-
gress of the United States, are again thwarted in
their design to gain possession of all the local
offices in the Territory, at least.  It may be that
many changes will follow the enforcement of this
cruel law; but it has been so modified that those
who labored and clamored for its passage are
greatly disappointed.  It has certainly been
robbed of some of its worst and most objectionable
features.
	The municipal election in Brigham City on
Monday, the 7th inst., was very satisfactory to the
people who have settled and built up the country.
To have put their city into the hands of a minority,
who are at bitter enmity with the majority of its
citizens, would have been deplorable indeed.  It
is a thriving, industrial town, and the people have
exerted themselves to make it beautiful as well,
and they have kept down elements that are calcu-
lated to destroy and lead away the young, but
since the so-called liberal element has shown
itself there, liquor saloons have been started, and
the influence of these has already made itself
apparent, and it is in this and other such ways,
that the young people of Utah are to be civilized
by those would-be reformers who are determined,
so they have stated, to crush out and kill Mor-
monism.
	The women of Utah who have exercised the
privilege of the elective franchise for seventeen
years are, through the passage of this bill, excluded
from the polls, and without any excuse whatever,
simply because they are women, not for any real
reason for no complaint has ever been made
against the manner in which they have used this
right, bestowed upon them by the Legislature of
the Territory, except that the liberals have said
they voted as they were told, and voted with their
husbands, and this they call a misuse of the ballot.
The ballot is understood to be a free expression of
one’s political opinion, and in Utah, where for
many years the ballot has been a secret one, there
could be no reason for any one voting in any
other way, except as the person’s own intelligence

[Column 2]
dictated, whether man or woman.  The writer is
well acquainted with the exercise of the elective
franchise in the hands of the women of Utah,
knowing, perhaps, as many women interested in
the suffrage for woman as any other person in the
Territory,having been for quite a number of years
vice-President for Utah of the National Woman’s
Suffrage Association, and practically interested
in affairs of that kind, and the advancement and
enfranchisement of women everywhere.  And
having been one of the three women named in a
petition presented to the courts here against
women voting, and trying “to compel the assessor
and register of voters to erase and strike from
the list of voters the names of Emmeline B. Wells,
Maria M. Blythe and A. G. Paddock, and also
the names of all women whose names thereon ap-
pear on the aforesaid list.” etc.  This case was
decided in favor of women and the names of
women were continued upon the voters’ lists and
women were allowed to vote at any and all elec-
tions in this Territory until the passage of the
Edmund-Tucker bill.  At the municipal election
in Brigham City,Monday, the 17th, two ladies pre-
sented votes and were rejected.  The case will
doubtless be carried through the courts, at any
rate it ought to be, and ascertain whether even
Congress can take the suffrage from any class of
citizens who have legally held it, and who have
not been accused of any misuse of the privilege.
To deprive women who have been voters of the
ballot is just as wrong as it would be to deprive
men, at least we see no reason why such is not the
case, and to submit to the indignity without pro-
testing and defending the position would not be
consistent with the courage and independence
manifested by the women of Utah in the past.  If
Congress can take the ballot from the women of
this Territory it can take it from the women of
Wyoming, and there is no telling how soon they
might attempt it.
	The women who assembled in convention in
Washington, during the month of February, made
a vigorous and forcible protest against the action
of Congress in the matter, and also presented a
memorial to the President of the United States,
urging him to veto that particular clause of the
Bill which disfranchised women voters, which we
publish in full in this issue.
	The restoration of the dower, about which so
many law-makers and pretended friends of all
women have said so much, is a positive injustice
to the women of Utah, and cannot be too severely
deprecated, as it prevents any provision being
made for plural wives and children, and would
place women, who have entered into the most
sacred covenants of marriage, from the strongest
religious convictions, on a level, so far as it is
possible for them to do it, with that unfortunate
class of women in the world whom men dishonor
and then cast off at their pleasure.
	It is true, beyond contradiction, whatever the
world may think, that “Mormon” women know
what they want  better than these regenerators,
either men or women, can tell them, and as for 
suffrage and rights, they know what they are en-
titled to, and will and can defend their own posi-
tion.  As for the principle of plural marriage, they
have steadily maintained their convictions in re-
gard to it, and all the persecution brought to bear
will not shake the confidence they have in its di-
vine authority, nor can it take away the belief from
any one, whatever may be done or legislated
against its practice.  Hindering women from vot-
ing will not help to abolish the principle, for they
will have no promise to make and no oath to take,
and consequently can talk all they like, and there
will be no restraint; thus it is that in everything
almost that the enemies of this people seek to ac-
complish, they thwart their own purposes, and by
and bye they will be caught in the meshes of the
net they have set to catch the Latter-day Saints.


