TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

	The National Woman’s Suffrage Association,
through this committee, respectfully present to
you a protest against that clause of the anti-
polygamy measure passed by Congress, which,
whether in the Edmunds bill of the Senate or
the Tucker substitute of the House, disfran-
chises the-non-polygamous women of Utah.
	The clause relating to the disfranchisement
of women has no bearing on the general merits
of the end sought to be attained by the measure,
since Mormon men are the majority of the
voters of the territory.
	The non-polygamous women of Utah have
committed no crime. Disfranchisement is re-
served by the United States government for
arch traitors.  Justice forbids that such a 
penalty should be inflicted on innocent
women.
	Non-polygamous Mormon women and the
Christian women of Utah being thus disfran-
chised--the former for their opinions and the lat-
ter for the opinions of the former—a precedent
is established subversive of the fundamental
principles of our government, and threatening
the security of all citizens.
	If Congress deems it necessary to disfran-
chise citizens because of injurious beliefs, dis-
crimination between sexes is manifestly unjust.
	It has been held by the foremost statesmen
of the nation that the right of suffrage once
exercised, becomes a vested right which cannot
be taken away. Gratz Brown once said, in
the Senate of the United States, that if the idea
that suffrage could be taken away at pleasure
once crystallized in the minds of the peo-
ple, it would “ring the death knell of American
liberty.” Mr. Vest, of Missouri, on the 25th
day of this month, said, on the floor of the
Senate: “Suffrage once given can never be
taken away. Legislatures and conventions
may do everything else; they never can do
that. When any particular class or faction of
the community is once invested with this
privilege, it is fixed, accomplished and eternal.
	Thus every argument for justice, equal legis-
lation and the safety of our republican form of
government calls for the defeat of this clause.
	We, therefore, respectfully urge you, as
guardian of the rights of all American citizens,
to veto any measure coming before you which
disfranchises the women of Utah.
		LILLIE DEVEREAUX BLAKE,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
		CAROLINE GILKEY ROGERS,
		MARY SEYMOUR HOWELL,
		CLARA B. COLBY,
		SARAH MILLER,
		ELIZABETH BOYNTON HARBERT,
		HARRIETTE R. SHATTUCK,
		LOUISA SOUTHWORTH,
								Committee.


