MOAB WARD, SAN JUAN STAKE.

	Report of the annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Moab Ward, San Juan Stake of
Zion, Emery County, Utah, held Feb. 19th,
1887, Prest. Sarah Burnham presiding.
Opened by singing, and prayer by Bishop R.
H. Stewart. After the reading of the minutes
of last meeting, the Secretary read the annual
report, which was satisfactory.
	Prest Burnham called upon Bishop R. H,
Stewart to address the meeting. He felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, and to con-
gratulate them upon the improvement that
was manifest among them; also felt to rejoice
because of the good spirit prevailing. Prayed
God to bless the Relief Society of Moab, and
gave some valuable instructions relative to the
various duties devolving upon the members as
mothers in Israel, and exhorted them to faith-
fulness in the discharge of the many require-
ments required of them. They should be hum-
ble and prayerful, and be united among them-
selves, etc.
	Bro. Edward Bolton said he was glad to 
meet with the Relief Society, and felt to en-
courage the sisters to go forward in their great
and good work. Was pleased to see the spirit
of unity apparent among them, and had no
doubts as to the improvements manifest. Com-
mented upon the importance of the Relief So-
ciety, as an able adjunct in building up the 
kingdom of God. Upon the mothers devolved
an enormous responsibility—the training of
the young was mostly in their hands; therefore,
they should seek for wisdom to enable them to
discharge their duties faithfully. They should
be united and sustain their President and all
placed in authority over them. Prayed God
to abundantly bless the Relief Society through-
out the various Stakes of Zion.

[Column 2]
	Prest. Burnham was glad to see so many of
the sisters together, and felt to endorse the 
many good counsels and instructions given by
the brethren. Spoke upon the necessity of
union combined with humility, and a) prayer-
ful spirit, etc., etc.
	Singing. Benediction by Brother Edward
Bolton.
