WORKING WOMEN.

	There are in the United States 2,647,157
women who earn their own living.
	Of this number 2,242,252 are classed in the
following occupations: laborers, mainly agricul-
tural, mill operatives, seamstresses, domestic
servants, and teachers--with the exception of
the last the most menial and worst paid of em-
ployments. In any of these industries it would 
be a low estimate to say that the supply of 
workwomen is ten times greater than the de-
mand. This statement will be amply corrob-
orated by the experience of any establishment
which employs women in large numbers, or by
the personal experience of any one who seeks
the services of a workwoman in any of these
capacities.
	Thus we find a social condition, which, while
obliging nearly 3,000,000 women to depend  up-
on their own exertions for a livelihood, offers
them a field of labor so circumscribed as to
afford employment for not more than one-
tenth of the number. Enormous overcrowd-
ing, fierce competition, and a consequent un-
due pressure upon wages must necessarily fol-
low such a state of things.
	The five industries mentioned contain the 
following number of women: laborers, 600,080;
mill operatives, 152,163; domestic servants,
938,910; seamstresses, 334,026; teachers, 154,-
375	Those classed as laborers are chiefly
found in the Southern States, and include, of
course, a large number of negro women, al-
though the sight of white women working in


[Column 1]
﻿the fields is a familiar one to the traveler, es-
pecially in the States of Tennessee and Ken-
tucky.  Thousands of women are also employed
as porters and laborers in stores and ware-
houses in the large cities of the North.
	The number of women given as mill opera-
tives, includes only those engaged in textile
manufactures, but the number engaged in
other manufactories would greatly swell these
figures.  Twenty years ago, there were not 300
women employed in cigar manufacture; to-day
there are 19,884 in the tobacco industries, and
the number is rapidly increasing.  The trade
of cigar-making is injurious to men, but fear-
ful in its effects upon the health of women and
children.
	Twenty-one thousand and seven women are
employed as boot and shoe makers.  In this 
industry they do the binding, sewing-on of but-
tons, etc., which is paid by the piece and very
poorly.  In all these manufacturing pursuits
women are restricted to the meaner sort of work,
and rarely rise to positions of trust, skill, or 
management.  The chief requirement of their
work is a certain manual dexterity, which is as
easily acquired by a child as a women, conse-
quently the wages and qualifications of the
woman are kept at the level of those of a child.
Under this system, factory women must re-
main in the lowest grade of employment; the
experience and trustworthiness of maturer years
are of no use in bettering their condition. It
is, therefore, not strange that we find so many
factory women wanting in that intelligence,
energy, and spirit which accompany a sense of
responsibility and trust.
	Nothing is more effectual in producing ab-
jectness of character and deadening the moral
and intellectual nature  than  a mean, servile 
condition which holds out no hope of change
or improvement, and in which the compensa-
tion is insufficient to afford the means of a com-
fortable living.
	We may well argue a prevailing state of
public ignorance regarding the evils of work-
ing women's condition, when one of the daily 
papers of this city uses, as an argument in fa-
vor of their present position in industry, the fact
that 45 per cent. of the employes in numerous
manufacturing enterprises are women.  The
beasts of burden, or the steam which furnishes
the motive power, are as much a factor in the
exercise of any intelligent, thinking purpose
as the women employed in these industries.
And although the number of women in these
pursuits should be doubled, filling the places
in them they now do, the evil would only be
increased and intensified.
	Trade unions have become a recognized
power in determining, in great measure, the
hours and wages of workingmen.  By means
of thorough organization they now form a
large and powerful class, whose claims are met
with respectful consideration by employers.
But this protest of labor against oppression of
all sorts is practically unavailable to women.
As an eminent English writer says: “The strikes
of workingmen are feared; those of working-
women laughed at.” This fact is recognized
by the employer, who well knows that he can
buy his labor cheaper from unorganized than
from organized labor.
	Carroll D. Wright, U. S. Com. of labor,
makes the following strong statement on the
condition of women in the cotton mills: “What
are these women but the very weakest and most 
dependent of all the people? They have no dis-
position to agitate.  All that is possible to
them is to toil, scrimp, and bear.  Now for
men, the strong, those who bear rule, the
sovereigns of the land, the hours of labor are
but ten all over the country in about every em-
ployment where they preponderate.  But
where the women and children preponderate
the hours of labor, as a rule, are eleven or more.
And the question is, why is it, in this land,
which aims at equality and justice, that the

[Column 2]
weakest, the most helpless and dependent, are
loaded with the more hours, while the strong,
the able-to-bear, and the controlling ones have
the less hours to work?”
	Many noble societies, even in this city, have
been founded for the amelioration of the con-
dition of factory operatives, but these do not
reach the cause of the evil   It is justice, not
charity, these women want from society.  The
even-handed goddess is the only reformer that
can reach the root of these and many other
social wrongs.  The woman who affects the
promotion of one capable factory woman to a
position of trust and management, has done
more to elevate and give encouragement to the
whole class than would she, who should organ-
ize a score of dilettante charities for their
benefit.
	The trades dependent upon the needle form
a history of human misery unequaled by the
industrial condition of any working class the
world has ever seen.  Is not Hood’s song of the
shirt so pitiful in that it is so true?  Here, too,
women suffer from the same want of organiza-
tion, the same eager competition born of over-
crowding, the same low wages that mark the
other leading occupations.  It is true that the
best of skilled labor commands good wages and
the fashionable dressmakers often acquire a
competency, but these are but a handful com-
pared to the vast army of needle-women who
work for a mere pittance.   The influences
which tend to depress woman’s industrial
condition bear the most fearful significance in
the lower grades of its workers,—the sewing
woman who makes a heavy pair of working
pantaloons for seven cents, and by working con-
tinuously at the machine can make ten pairs
in a day of from 12 to 15 hours.  Provided
no time is lost, their average weekly wages are
$3.80, but to reach even this sum they are
obliged to work seven full days, only occa-
sionally taking Sunday afternoon for a holiday.
The condition of the shirt makers is still worse;
they receive but 6 to 8 cents apiece, and can
earn only from 30 to 50 cents a day.  Vests
are made for 3 to 6 cents apiece.  Miserable
attics and cellars form the only homes of
these women, and their tenure even of these is
precarious, depending upon the uncertain for-
tunes of an employment in which, owing to
the enormous overcrowding, the most frivolous
reason serves as a pretext for a dismissal.  Such
a woman’s food is insufficient and unwholesome,
her clothing of the meanest description, and
if she have a best dress for Sundays or holi-
days it is often in the pawn shop to meet the
exorbitant rent she is obliged to pay for even
her wretched tenement.  A cloak maker, who,
with a friend occupies two rooms on the top
floor of a large tenement house on the East
Side, states that they never have a warm meal
or meat except for their Sunday dinner.  The
remainder of the week they subsist on bread
and tea or milk.  She also added that they
were better off than many other sewing women.
And yet it is work demanding experience, skill,
and taste in its higher departments and require-
ing neatness, deftness of hand, and care in all.
Its products are among those most in demand;
the garments of the women and children of
the wealthy classes are marvels of beauty and
workmanship, while the changing dictates of
fashion require the constant services of the
sewing women.  The question naturally arises,
Why then are the wages of seamstresses so
shamefully low and the struggle for existence
so tragic for them?  It must be obvious to the
most superficial observer that, even with the
present excess of supply over demand in this
branch of work, thorough organization could
effect much in raising the wages of needle-
women.  But here the greed of monopoly is
limited by no restrictions or resistance.  The
poor sewing woman, isolated in the midst of a
great city, falls an easy prey to this gigantic
evil of modern society.  The multiplication of

[Column 3]
stores of ready-made clothing means an in-
crease of the system which allows the manu-
facturer to grind down the wages of “slop work”
to the pittance which merely enables the sewing
woman to exist,—to live in any sense that im-
plies a rational existence she does not.  To
these women even the lowest wages of the
workman would mean riches and abundance.
And yet it is the man who complains the most
loudly and effectually. Michelet says that the
workman needs so many more things than the
workwoman, that one could say of them
what is said of the English and Irish labor-
ers, “The Irishman when he is hungry asks
only for potatoes; but the hungry Englishman
demands meat,  sugar,  tea,  and above all
beer.”
	The position of domestic servant possesses
many advantages over the condition of a fac-
tory or sewing woman both by the increased
comfort and cleanliness of its surroundings and
its better compensation.  But in no other em-
ployment do we hear more bitter complaints of
inefficiency.  This is almost wholly due to the fact
that, in the city, domestic servants are mostly
drawn from the tenement-house districts or the
newly landed immigrants from Castle Garden,
who, without previous training, are expected
to perform skillfully the complicated duties of
a modern household.  With the best inten-
tioned, proficiency is only gained by many
failures and long experience, while the more
thriftless  and  careless   go  to  swell   the
ranks of inefficient servants who, being always
in search of a place, serve to keep wages at the
lowest rates.  But if girls were trained for do-
mestic servants as boys are trained to become
carpenters and masons, the work would
speedily command the consideration and wages
that other skilled labor does in the market.
	Upon women possessing wealth, leisure, and
influence, must the evils of the present state
of domestic service chiefly rest, since they have
it in their power, not only to provide them-
selves with skilled servants by organizing and
encouraging schools of cookery and other
branches of domestic economy, but of becom-
ing benefactors to thousands of their own sex
by raising domestic service to the rank of a
skilled employment.	
	And yet to enter domestic service is one of
the most common remedies proposed for bet-
tering the condition of working women.  Do
the advocates of domestic service ever stop to
consider that it is one of the employments
open to women which is already crowded to its
utmost capacity, and that to precipitate any
more untrained women into a field of labor
which does not afford any adequate means of
training for those already there would be a
most disastrous remedy for the evils which now
prevail?  Nearly a million women are filling
the position of domestic servants, and yet the
intelligence offices are crowded and every ad-
vertisment brings scores of applicants.  It is
better servants that are needed, not greater
numbers.   Another  evil  in  the  working
woman’s condition arises from the fact that
however hard she may work she cannot, at
the present rate of wages in the occupations
fully open to her, hope to save money.  It is
with the greatest difficulty she can provide for
the immediate wants of the present; thus all
openings which require the smallest amount of
capital are closed to her.  A man, starting at
the lowest round of the industrial ladder, can,
by habits of steady industry, thrift, and econo-
my, rise to the highest position in his trade or
profession, can look forward to the pleasures
of a comfortable home, of educating his chil-
dren, and enjoying a competency in his old
age.  But for the working woman there exists
no such plans or hopes.  The hopelessness of
her condition is one of its saddest features.—
North American Reviiw.
