MRS. HEMANS AND MRS. BROWNING.

Dear friends, for so I hold ye here, in high and holy
	thought,
How do I love to soar afar to heav'n on your bright
	wings!
Mine own fall dull and heavily, but your sweet songs have
	brought
Unto a faltering, struggling heart a glimpse of lovelier
	things.
How dare I say I love ye, when I fear from your high
	places
Ye might smile, as half in scorn, at a mortal's vanity.
Still I love ye, love ye truly, thanking heaven for your
	graces,
Sent to gladden earth with flowers, breathing heaven's
	own purity.
Flow'rs immortal have ye scattered, planted deep in fertile
	soil;
Error deep have ye combated, truth and love reward your
	toil;
Truth and Love have been your watchword, wreathed in
	flow'rs of chastest dyes;
In your paths there springs a gladness; round your names a
	glory lies.


Woman's joys—how well ye tell them; woman’s griefs, how 
	well ye know!
Woman’s wrongs, how ye repel them, by the light of
	truth ye throw.
Childhood's sweetness—how beneath your artist pens its
	bright hues shine;
Human life and human loving—how ye make it all divine!

How ye soar on wings of glory, how ye play on harps of
	gold!
How entrancing is your story, how divinely is it told!
Joy it were to sit a listener, lowly, meekly at your feet,
But for one short hour, in breathing from your lips the 
music sweet.

Dear Felicia, child of sorrow, child of love and purity!
How in  days of girlish dreaming was my soul enwrapped
	in thee.
Type of all things sweet and tender, bright and pure thy
	high verse seemed.
Still meeting thee in heaven with the glad my spirit
	dreamed.

Yet how could I?  I who never can attain to thine high
	place,
How could I so poor, unworthy, lacking all thy glorious
	grace,
Think to meet thee and to win thee for a friend by might
	of love,
In a sphere where I shall only find how far thou art above?

Still, let me go on dreaming, though the dream may be
	illusive,
That in heaven I shall meet thee and shall clasp thine
	hand in mine,
And the love-light in mine eyes shall beam so bright that
	no delusive
Words could tell thee aught but that on earth my love
	was truly thine.

Then, dear friend, I thall be satisfied, for well I know that
	heaven 
Is more merciful and kind, more full of love than earth
	can be;
And though I never may be great, the light which God
	hath given
May light my path enough to find the heav’n that shelters
	thee.
	RUBY LAMONT.
Glenwood, Utah, March 6, 1887.


