		ZION."

	Giving precedence to that which comes first by
nature and time, I would refer to the duty of a
daughter in her parents' house. God has sent us
all forth on a noble mission, and endowed us with
the requisite gifts whereby we can perform that
mission faithfully, and work out for ourselves an
exaltation, which will qualify us to dwell with His
holy ones in the eternal worlds.
	It is for us as women to see that the talents with
which we are endowed are not allowed to rust.
Filial love and respect are the qualities we should
first cultivate, to lighten a mother's burden, with-
out usurping her authority; to help as much as
possible, without displacing her; to secure for
her the ease, which years spent in toil and anxiety
for us render necessary, without making her feel
that she is no longer needed and her counsel un-
heeded; to obey our father as the head of the
household; to anticipate his wants, and be ever
ready to fulfil a daughter's duty.
	An excellent guide to a girl's character and dis-
position can be ascertained by her manner in the
family circle. If eyes brighten at her approach,
and voices welcome her coming, we may feel sure
that she is beloved; but if voices are hushed and
no interest is taken in her when she enters the
room, there is a feeling of suspicion that rises in
our minds as to whether she is doing her duty, or
acting in such a manner as to win love and confi-
dence in the sphere in which she is placed. A
woman's especial place is home. The very men-
tion of the word home calls up recollections of
our mothers or sisters, and the refined influences
that women exert there takes hold of the most
hardened and coarse natures, and makes us feel
truly there is "no place like home." Who is it
that has not felt at some time or other of his
life the sweet restraining power that the gentler
sex know so well how to use, and which will move
a strong will from the path of error, and by her
persuasion and gentleness, will be the good angel
of men's lives. In order to exert this influence it
is requisite for a woman to know all things that
pertain to the comfort of those around her. There
is an idea prevalent among the young ladies of
to-day, that housework is a far too degrading
thing to do, and to betray even a slight knowledge
of it is "exceedingly bad form;" but what an igno-
rant idea. What harm can it do a girl to learn how 
to cook, clean, sew, darn, etc.?	*	*	That
which constitutes our degradation is not when w
fill our proper place, but when we seek to fill some
other place than that which God and nature has
designed and appointed for us. And does not
that book, which we all profess to revere, give
greatest honor to the industrious? The women
that are held up as patterns are not the idle and
useless, but those who worked with both hand
and head. Our Savior's praise of our sex
was, "She hath done what she could."
	If some are fortunate enough to be able to em-
ploy servants to do the menial work for them, a
knowledge of the way it should be done will al-
ways win them the respect of those they employ,
and if, in this way, we are ever called to fulfil our
mission as a wife, we shall be able to materially
look after our husband's interests in that dearest
of all places, "home."
	Though we may not all be under the necessity
of engaging in such duties now, we ought, as a
matter of choice, to learn how to do them, for the
purpose of fitting ourselves for what we may re-
quire. Let no foolish notion, that work is degrad-
ing, hinder us from doing our duty. There are
more of the truly noble among those who work
for their daily bread, than among the highest
of the nobility of the land.
	There are many duties we miss performing be-
cause we want to do so much more than there is
any necessity for; we are so apt to look to the top of


the ladder before we put our foot on the first step,
and to aspire to be so great before we learn to
live in a humbler way.	*	*	*	*	*
	Let us, then, be determined not to listen to 
those who would turn us aside from a work which 
even angels might covet, and from a noble fulfil-
ment of a mission that alone constitutes our true
glory.
				MARION SCOLES.
	London, England.


