EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have not seen anything lataly in our
valuable paper about our little town. Price, we
thought we would write a few lines to let our
sisters know that we are laboring for the king-

[Column 2]
dom with the rest. We are trying to do as
near right as we can. We feel to sustain and
bless everybody who is interested in the great
work of Christ.
	We had a very enjoyable time here the 17th
of Feb. ult., in the gathering at the meeting
house to surprise Sister Jane Eldredge, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Price, on
her thirty-sixth anniversary. Singing by the
little Sunday School choir, as Sister Eldredge
was accompanied into the house by her hus-
band, together with several sisters, where a
number of tables were spread with all the
blessings that the earth could produce in the
shape of food, and surrounded by about 175
persons. A blessing was offered, and all par-
took with grateful hearts.
	After dinner, the following token was read
in respect to Sister Eldredge's energetic labors
with the Primary children:

	"A token of respect to our beloved sister,
Jane Eldredge, President of the Primary As-
sociation of Price, for her diligence and patient
perseverance in well-doing with the children
of this place, and feeling that she had more
than performed the duty assigned her, never
letting wind nor weather stop her in the per-
formance of the same.
	Therefore, dear sister, we say unto you, ac-
cept these small tokens of our respect and
gratitude, and may the blessings of our Father
rest down upon you with health and strength
to still go on for many years to come in the
good cause you have entered into with the
young. May every year be brighter than the
last.						SARAH COX.
	She was then presented with some presents
made by the Primary children, and also by
the Sunday School choir.
	Sister Eldredge was a little overcome with
joy and surprise, not looking for anything of
the kind. She thanked them for the honor
and respect shown to her, and also for the
presents they had bestowed upon her.
	There was dancing in the evening, and
toasts, songs and sentiments were freely given.
All had an enjoyable time.
						E. S. H.
						F. A MEAD,
