IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs. Abby Kelley Foster died in Boston,
Mass., at the home of her sister, Mrs. M. L. K.
Barton, with whom she resided, on Friday;
January 14. The next day was her birthday.
On it she would have completed seventy-six
years: Mrs. Foster was as well as usual until


Wednesday of last week, when she seemed very
tired and feeble. Thursday morning she was
too weak to get up.  On Friday afternoon she
died.  She suffered none, and seemed to sleep
away her life.  Her daughter was telegraphed
for, and arrived just before her mother’s
death.	
	Thus has passed from us the most remarkable
woman, in some respects, the world has ever
known. She came upon the stage of active
life when the anti-slavery movement began. 
She was a Quaker woman about twenty-six
years of age, teaching school in Lynn. Her
conscience summoned her to leave everything
for the slave’s sake. It is impossible to des-
cribe the situation. Slavery was entrenched
in the government and laws. It was sanctioned
by religion and upheld by all classes of society.
All the traditions of the world were opposed to
the speaking of women in public. Still stronger
were the forbidding, texts which imposed
“silence upon women.”  To undertake the
cause of the slave was to consent to such mighty
odds. It was to give up respectability, ease,
quiet, comfort, the hope of a competence. It
was to encounter mobs, to endure cold and
hunger, and fatigue, and to face death itself.
	Abby Kelley did not hesitate. She put her
tender shoulder to the work.  Never once, for
nearly thirty years was there space for pause
or rest. A weaker woman, or one with a fibre
less fine, would not have attempted, or would
have given up. To her the latter was impossible.
Think of the long years, the constant torture,
and the unflinching courage!  Verily she is
without a peer.  Over the highway she helped
to build, the slaves walked to freedom, and
over the highway whose foundation stones she
laid with bleeding hands, women are marching
to their equal rights.
	Those who remember Mrs. Foster fifty years
ago will recall the fair and comely young
Quaker woman, whose voice, sweet and clear
as a silver bell, penetrated to the farthest
listener. Those who have only seen her in
later years, will think of her as feeble, bent,
worn with the battle of life, and with a voice
hoarse from over use and much outdoor speak-
ing, “over-plied in liberty’s defense.” The
world is richer and better for Abby Kelley
Foster.—Lucy Stone, in Woman's Journal.


