					W. S. SEARLE, M. D.

	At 10:30 the house was closed for the night.
	A meeting of parishoners of Plymouth Church
was held in the lecture room commencing at 8 p.
m.  The room was crowded with male and female
members of  the  congregation and  not a few
friends from other churches, and there was scarce-
ly a dry eye to be seen from the beginning to the
end of the proceedings. Mr. Tilney presided and
Rev. Dr. Hallidie opened the meeting with a
moving prayer, in which he decided that their
beloved pastor might not even be allowed to
seem to suffer, but that he must speedily attain
unto that rest prepared for him. After singing a
hymn, Jackson offered prayer and the chairman
then read a portion of Scripture commencing:
“Finally, beloved, be strong in the Lord and in the
power of His might, which is able to keep you
from failing,” etc.
	It seemed as if those words were a message to
him who was leaving them, because it seemed as
though he were a born warrior. In all the past


[Column 1]﻿
years he had to fight and struggle; there had al-
ways been something for them to battle with and
he had fought the fight.  There has never been
any flinching, never any turning back.
	The following letter from Mrs. Beecher was
read:  "To the beloved members of Plymouth
Church:  I cannot speak my thanks to each and
every one of you for the sympathy and love and
devotion manifested in these last days, sad days
for your pastor.  He can no longer speak to you
for himself.  Then permit me to do it for him, for
myself, for my family.  Each word of love from 
the people so dear to your pastor’s heart has been
a comfort and balm to a heart wrung almost to
bursting.  How he loved his church you will only
learn in its fulness when you stand with him in
heaven.  To each and every one of you, my earn-
est thanks and most earnest blessiug.  Pray for
his wife and children soon to lose their truest
companion and tenderest father, and if we must
relinquish all possible hope of his full recovery,
oh,  beloved,  pray  that  his  departure may be
speedy, that we may not be long agonized by this
struggle  between  life  and death.  Pray, if he
must leave us, that before another day dawns he
may receive his crown and be forever with his
Lord.
		(Signed)		EUNICE N. BEECHER.
	New York, March 8.—Henry Ward Beecher
began  to  sink  slowly after midnight  and the
watchers at his bedside soon saw that the end was
near.  Beecher passed quietly away while asleep;
he never recovered consciousness after the paraly-
sis stupefied his mind.
			BEECEER'S WILL.
	In the name of God, amen!  I, Henry Ward
Beecher, of the City of Brooklyn and State of
New York, hereby revoking all other and former
wills by me heretofore made, do make, publish
and declare this to be my last will and tastament.
	First—I hereby authorize and direct my execu-
tors, or such of them as shall qualify at my death,
to collect and receive the amount of my life in-
surance, to invest the same and pay the proceeds
of such investment to my wife during her life in
equal quarterly yearly payments.
	Two—I hereby give, bequeath and devise unto
my executors, or such of them as shall qualify, the
net residue and remainder of my estate, both per-
sonal and real of every kind, in trust for the bene-
fit of my children, and I hereby direct that my
said executors distribute and apportion my said
estate among my said children in such manner
and form, and at such time or times as shall, in
their judgment, be  for  the best interests of my
said children, giving unto my said executors full
power to sell and mortgage such and so much of
my real and personal property as they shall deem
best, and to invest or distribute the proceeds of
such sale or sales as herein provided.
	Third—It is my will that if any of my said
children should die before the complete distribu-
tion of my estate, as above provided, their children
shall stand and take in place and stead of the said
parents, taking per stripes and not per capita.
	Fourth— I hereby nominate, constitute and ap-
point my sons, Henry B. Beecher, William C.
Beecher and Herbert A. Beecher, all of Brooklyn,
New York, and my son-in-law, Bev. Samuel Sco-
ville, of Norwich, New York, executors and
trustees of this my will, and it is my will that no
bond shall be required of them or either of them.
	July 11th, 1878.
		(Signed)		HENRY WARD BEECHER.
	The witnesses are A. S. Barnes and G. D.
Blake of Brooklyn.
				THE FUNERAL.
	New York, March 12.—The remains of the late
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher were taken from Ply-
mouth church at 8:30 this morning and conveyed

[Column 2]
to Greenwood cemetery, where they were deposited
in the large receiving vault, where they will re-
main until the family select a lot for final interment.
All night long the church was guarded by Ply-
mouth Company G, and at 7 this morning the re-
mains were turned over to the Plymouth church
committee, who had charge of the burial.  Only
the family and close personal friends of the de-
ceased went out to the cemetery.  The funeral 
cortege proceeded from the church to Greenwood
cemetery by the shortest route.


