A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	How these words awaken a train of thoughts,
and stir the emotions of the soul. "Fifty years
ago" the wedding bells rang, and the solemn
words, "until death doth part," were pro-
nounced. How bright the future seemed to
those young hearts! and yet were they only
joined for this life? For a time, perhaps, they
thought so; but when the glorious principles
of truth were unfolded to their honest hearts,
a second time they stood before the altar. O,
how beautiful the words sounded! "for time
and all eternity."
	But I wished to tell you of a pleasant, social
party we had in celebrating a golden wedding
in our little town of Glenwood, the first, I be-
lieve, that ever occurred here.
	On the 26th of February, 1887, the family
and friends of Brother and Sister Powell, more
familiarly  known as Grandpa and Grandma
Powell. We were invited to supper at 6 p.m.,
at the residence of Brother E. Payne's. As
we entered the room, what a beautiful sight
met our eyes, not only were the tables groaning
with delicacies, but a towering wedding cake
was placed in the centre of the table, the top
decorated with wax orange blossoms, and a
motto, "God bless the aged pair," encircled


around them. Soon the bride and groom
arrived, somewhat surprised. After hearty
congratulations, we were seated, the stalwart,
healthy sons and daughters placed near and
around them. How their hearts must have re-
joiced to think they all were faithful to the
everlasting Gospel. The whispered, "Father,
mother," by the eldest daughter, "we have
made you a few presents,” mentioning them
one by one, “and here is a small wedding cake
sent you by a young sister." The grateful ac-
knowledgments, and "God bless you all!"
caused a tear of love to fill each eye.
	After supper it was announced that we
should adjourn to the large Co-op Hall, where
all the adults, young men and maidens of the
town were gathered to do honor to the occasion.
Many hand-shakings and good wishes were
offered the bride and groom. Dancing was in-
dulged in until ten o'clock, when the large
wedding cake was brought in, placed upon a
stand in the centre of the hall, and the aged
pair seated beside it.
	After remarks by Bro. A. Heppler, who
spoke of their many good works and faithful-
ness, which had endeared them to all present,
a company of young ladies sang, "Will you
love me when I'm old?" The cake was then
distributed to about one hundred and sixty-five
persons. While passing it, "Dear heart, we're 
growing old," was sung, and as we watched the
tears glisten in the eyes of the aged pair, we
felt that their thoughts were of long, long ago.
Dancing was again resumed, and the young
and old danced together. Every face bespoke
joy and happiness; care and the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill were forgotten, for God's people
know in whom they trust. At 12 p.m. we dis-
persed, feeling that it was a time long to be
remembered.
