[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 816 | Special Feature | The Spiritual Value of Homemaking | Louise W. Madsen]
[The Spiritual Value of Homemaking Louise W. Madsen]

Second session Relief Societies are a boon to countless women, as are well-managed nurseries for mothers with young children. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES The General Board requests that great emphasis be placed upon the compassionate service program which is fundamental in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Society and which, according to the reports, seems to be somewhat on a plateau insofar as volume is concerned. Today's troubled, costly, and insecure world, with its measure of tragedy in the lives of many faithful sisters and good families, -calls upon us deeply to understand our responsibilities in this area, and to respond to needs with readiness, competency, and love. It is our opinion that days care of the sick, which declined by more than 5,000 eight-hour days in 1967-68, have not taken any significant upturn during the 1968-69 year. We suggest that you Report and Official Instructions exercise watchcare so that Relief Society will not falter where this service is needed in the home. — _ Figures on visits to the sick also have remained somewhat constant—between 395,000 and 400,- 000—as have the number of hours of other compassionate services, which were approximately 750,- 000 hours. Let us be sensitive to all such needs. We particularly call your attention to the desirability of Relief Society presidencies calling on a family at the time of a death and making available to it, if desired, the services of the Society in connection with the funeral. We estimate that 1,000 bodies were dressed for burial during the 1968-69 year, and assistance including the providing of food was given in connection with more than 12,000 funerals. Such service is usually welcomed and is comforting and helpful. At times, our sisters need to be reminded of the value of going the second mile in rendering voluntary humanitarian service as individuals—on their own. I call attention to an important program which is proving of value in our Latter-day Saint hospitals. I refer to the hospital Volunteer Auxiliary program, sometimes referred to as the "Pink Lady" program. We encourage sisters who have time, health, and an aptitude for service in a hospital setting, where there is a variety of work situations, to contact your local Latter-day Saint hospitals. Full information will be readily given you. We commend the stakes who have participated in the Red Cross Home Nurse Training programs. Approximately 5,426 wo- 

817 November 1969

 men have completed this course, made available to them through the cooperative efforts of the American Red Cross and the Relief Society. CHURCH WELFARE Relief Society sisters consistently support the Church Welfare Program with ward presidents having made approximately 100,000 family visits under the direction. Of their respective bishops, and 94,000 other contacts during the past year. Relief Society members contributed during the year 756,000 hours on Church Welfare projects. VISITING TEACHING It is estimated that there were close to 5¥, million visits made to homes during the 1968-69 fiscal year by more than 148,000 visiting teachers. We increasingly see their value as an aid to the bishop in ascertaining cases of temporal need among worthy Latter-day Saint families and also as an aid to him through the Home Teachers in reactivating inactive members. Visiting teachers are a great asset to Relief Society itself in bringing women who are enrolled into membership and _ activity. The visiting teaching program has value in fellowshiping new converts to the Church, most of whom soon make excellent visiting teachers themselves, thus enlarging our reservoir of teachers. Let us aim to enlarge our visiting teaching program and continually improve the quality of the visit and attendance at the visiting teacher meeting, as well as the quality of the confidential report to the ward president. 818 COURSES OF STUDY The spiritual living lessons for the forthcoming season conclude the course based on the Doctrine and Covenants. It is expected that by the time this course is concluded in May 1970, members will have thoughtfully read the entire Doctrine and Covenants in order that they may enjoy fully the spirit of this book of scripture, increase their knowledge and understanding of the _ revealed truths contained in the revelations, and be guided by them in their day-to-day activities. Visiting teaching messages correlate with the Family Home Evening Manual and are designed to renew our faith and guide us as we meet life from day to day. The social relations lessons for the coming year are based again upon the writings of the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. The cultural refinement course will stress the individual and human values as seen through literature, art, and music, widening the scope by emphasizing a woman's responsibilities in community life and the world in which she lives. LESSONS FOR THE USE OF LAMANITE WARDS AND BRANCHES The General Board is pleased to announce that special lessons for Lamanite Relief Societies are now ready for distribution. This new set of Lamanite lessons has been prepared so as to fit into any standard three-ring binder. The set is wrapped in cellophane and includes sheets of visual aids fol- lowing each lesson. The cost for a set is $3 postpaid. They are to be ordered from the office of the General Board. HOMEMAKING Exclusive of the homemaking discussions that are prepared by the General Board, activities for the homemaking meeting are planned by the local Relief Societies with the General Board setting the purposes of the meeting and giving general guidelines. It is the rule of the stake and mission district board to suggest, display, and demonstrate suitable items which might be produced, or demonstrations which appropriately might be conducted. This year's estimate of number of items produced is in excess of 114 million. This was over and above the countless recorded homemaking demonstrations and other helpful homemaking activities. MUSIC We are delighted to report the increasing interest and general improvement in the music program. We now have over 3,600 local Singing Mothers choruses, with 52,500 singers participating. Special concerts are being held with a high degree of success.: SONG CONTEST Results of the Song Contest were excellent. There were 223 entries. Both the first and second award-winning numbers will be heard during this conference— the first award number in the General Session, and the second in this morning's session. These numbers will be published and Report and Official Instructions will be available for purchase at the music stores. We are indebted to our former board member, Sister Cleone Eccles, for the inspiration and the financial means which led to the establishment of the contest. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is with gratitude that we acknowledge the tireless and competent service of more than 7,000 sisters whose callings as Magazine representatives are so important to the organization and to the sisters as individuals. The present circulation is 285, 000 (7,000 Spanish). In November 1957, the subscription price was set at $2. Through rigid editing and publishing economies, and by virtue of the labors of the sisters in obtaining subscriptions, we have been able to maintain the $2 subscription price for twelve years. It is with genuine regret that, regardless of our efforts to continue the $2 subscription price, it has become necessary to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. This price change becomes effective January 1, and applies to all subscriptions, including renewals, which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning with September, October, November, or December 1969 issues will be at the $2 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.), Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and enlist 

819 November 1969

 their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline. We suggest that occasionally the president take a few moments of time in the regular meeting to call attention to some special feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it. Presidents, will you kindly request ward presidents to instruct their Magazine representatives not to send currency through the mail in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Payments are to be made by check or Post Office money order in the interest of safety. Some orders have been received with currency missing. We remind you that General Board regulations state that in sending currency, you do so at your own risk. POETRY AND SHORT STORY CONTESTS One of the original purposes of the Magazine was "to serve as an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women." It has met this purpose well. Publication of the award-winning poems and short stories in the Poetry and Short Story Contests, respectively, has brought interest and enrichment to the publication. This year there were 469 entries in the Poetry Contest and eighty-six in the Short Story Contest. We call your attention to the excellence of these awardwinning works, published in the April 1969 Magazine. We are pleased to announce that by action of the General Board there will be an increase in the amount of cash award paid to the writers of the award-winning entries. 820 LAMANITE RELIEF SOCIETY In attendance at this conference are a number of choice Lamanite Relief Society leaders, to whom we extend a special welcome. Relief Society must do its part with far greater insight, understanding and intelligent effort than heretofore. The influence of Relief Society can be a potent one in helping the Lamanite mother to lift the standards in her home and to make her home a center where the gospel is taught and lived—a place of order, attractiveness, and peace. GARMENT DISTRIBUTION The Lord continues to bless Relief Society in meeting its assignment in the Garment Distribution program. We _ acknowledge with appreciation the spirit and efficiency with which this program is being carried forward.: We request stakes in close proximity to one another which are conducting single stake operations to consider coming together as multiple stake operations. These are proving much more satisfactory to patrons and are a more efficient plan of distribution. FUNDS AT REORGANIZATION An outgoing president is advised, in turning over the records to her successor, to see that all outstanding financial obligations of the Society incurred during her administration are met. In those instances in which a reorganization is anticipated, outgoing presidents are advised not to proceed with any new plans or projects which involve unusual Report and Official Instructions expenditures of Relief Society funds. Important to t Church and to the Church, itself.