about the family of Elder Marion Rogers of Snowflake, Arizona, written by one of his

daughters (Mayola R. Miltenberger). In 1922, Elder Rogers baptized me in Sheffield,

England. I was then a member of a small branch in Lincolnshire. Except for a few years

during the war I have been active in the Church ever since. At present I am cultural

refinement class leader in the Sunderland Ward, Sunderland Stake.

M^r'^ /\. Akenhead, Sunderland, Durham, England

(by Leora Larsen). It provided me with exactly the right thought to send to my

sister. We have been parted for a little over a year. All of the poetry in the Magazine is

special to me because, before my marriage, mother and I read the poetry together. I

feel that we still share the poems, even though we are not together.

Nancy Bowman, Barbers Point, Hawaii

I wish to thank a very dear friend, Eva Rydalch, for giving me so much enjoyment as I

find in The Relief Society Magazine. I have enjoyed the serial "Welcome the Task" (by

Michele Bartmess). I enjoy all of the continued stories and the recipes. I have looked

in many cookbooks to find a recipe for date pudding— and there it was in the August

Magazine (by Betty Mazzacano). My mother made date pudding when I was a child.

We did not always have the nuts to put in the pudding, but we used substitutes— and

the pudding was a luxury. Evelin Pardun, Riverbank, California

How thrilled I was to read the story "Missionaries to Dinner" (by Joan Nelson Ahlman)

in the July Magazine. It was like a page from my own diary. We love the elders and try

to make them welcome in our land. We have had much joy from inviting them to our

home. A convert of two years only, I find the Magazine invaluable, and treasure it so

much that I have given subscriptions to my friends. Never have I read a Magazine

with more universal appeal. Margaret Park, East Kilbride, Scotland

I think the cover picture on the August Magazine is outstanding (Bernkastelkues on

the Mosel River, Germany). I have admired all the lovely color prints, but this one is

special. The Magazine has brought much joy and insight into my life.

Mary K. Hoover, Junction City, Kansas

I especially enjoyed the poem "Roadside Moment— Summer" by Katherine F. Larsen, in

the August issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Larsen certainly captures the beauty of a

momentary image. Thanks for all the lovely poetry printed in the Magazine.

B. Barnes Richardson, Milwaukie, Oregon

I read the article "South Africa— Land of Gold and Green," by Caroline Eyring Miner, in

the June issue of the Magazine. The article and pictures are beautiful, as are all the

other articles and the lessons published in the Magazine. I love it.

Cathy Budd, Sunderland, Surrey, England

I have read the three prize-winning stories in the April issue of the Magazine and loved

them all. I was happy to see a pioneer romance for a winner ("A Horse and Buggy

Romance" by Iris W. Schow). Miss Schow did a lovely job in handling her subject. I

appreciated the second-prize story ("Mama and the Teddy Bear" by Lael J. Littke)

for any story by Mrs. Littke has to be good. She delights me. But I want to rave a

little about the third-prize story (The "Silver Pitcher" by Grace M. Pratt). It seems to

me she used a masterful stroke, and there are understanding and depth in her story.

I hope to meet all three of these writers again and again in the pages of the

Magazine. Alice Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
Georgine Shiner Snow Provo, Utah Mrs. Sarah Edna Palmer H. Teeples Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Burbidge Turnbow Kamas, Utah November 1969 NEW BOOKCLUB I BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB featuring WITH NO MINIMUM PURCHASE FREE BOOKLET "AS A MAN THINKETH" 1. SPECIAL ON VOL. V OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Regular $3.25 Special $2.60 aa a) Th ati HY Our OF THE DEST ROOKS =} I) imme Bil OUTOR THE BEST BROOKS o_o a NOP TUMNRRE HOOKS I \1\ _coerrepeanenennrscodl 2. Vols. 1-3 ea. $1.95 4. Art of Home 6. Jesus the Christ — (Vol. 4 Out of Print) Making — Hoole $4.95 James Talmage $3.50 3. You & Your Child's 5. I Thee Wed — 7. Doc. & Cov. World — Landeau $3.95 Rex Sidmore $2.95 Commentary $4.95 BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB -. 626 "'H'' Street Salt-Lake City, Utah 84103 880 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of PROPHECIES AND PROPHETIC PROMISES FROM THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Total Cost $ I enclose check [-] money order (] Charge established account [7] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Nov. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land. Yy, "in your meals! Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FRESH APPLE PIE TIME! Slit top crust to allow steam to escape. Bake in hot (450°) oven for 15 minutes; decrease heat to 4 Chg Eaaeiiind 2 tablespoons Minute = 495° and continue baking another 30 minutes or 4 pone ale P Pe _ until nicely browned. For final 10 minutes of bakVelteuspeon'Cinmamen — ing time, sprinkle pie generously with granulated - U and I Sugar. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream METHOD or slice of cheese for cheese lovers. Peel, core and slice apples. Mix with U and I Note: If you have a soggy crust problem, try coatSugar, cinnamon and tapioca and let mixture ing the bottom crust with egg white before filling. Stand while preparing crust. Prepare crust for 9" Merely drop the white of an egg onto crust, tip two-crust pie. Fill bottom crust with fruit mixture; pan until entire crust is coated, and pour off exdot with 2 tablespoons butter. Cover with top shell. Cess. Oven heat will seal bottom crust in first minFlute edges to seal in juice and either prick or utes of hot baking so juice cannot penetrate. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the Ul economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. wes, s > — — 7 a Soia 5 ed: * Ke Met - ego, a "ee yy" Yu cc KO aR <=" >