The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 November 1969 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford

THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer 822 the Way to achieve it. A believeg that the Savi ] avior's 'NStruction Orphan applied to pj IM. He had litt] ut he Owned Some desert hills Pinion Pine. E "Ch year jn the Wagon with th e logs Which haq € town and delive Mas he loaded his fallen a d hauled them red the w ] Provide War Many miles to 00d to the Widows wh ™ homes for their Childre night, someti etimes beneath acl a White blizz ] n Ceived them ya drifting blizzarg. The ] and a fire, some oney cand Nd s a small fir tree., Ada J. J Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Leanor J. Brown; Dedeking eba O. Al Luella W. Fi llen_N. Barnes 823 s to the Field ' Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price to Be Increased It is with genuine regret we announce at this time that regardless of our efforts to continue The Relief Society Magazine at its present $2.00 subscription price, it now becomes necessary for us to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.) This price change becomes effective January 1, 1970 and applies to all subscriptions including renewals which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning in September, October, November, or December 1969, or renewals beginning in these months will be at the $2.00 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. Increases in the costs of labor, printing, paper, and postage force this step upon us. Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and to enlist their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline either for the sake of the organization or for the sake of the sisters who need the Magazine's instructions, guidance, and influence. We suggest that ward presidents take a few moments of time in the regular Relief Society meeting 'to call attention to some feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it. ~ THESE STONES, MY POEMS I am as a rushing stream Flowing over these rough stones, my poems. From far places where I have been— From the rugged mountains of learning, From the desert of maturing insight, From the forest of deep appreciation, From the valleys of experience, I have gathered abrasive sand and silt, Carrying all along with me. Each time that 1, so laden, Touch one of these my poems, Its roughest corners fall away, And it takes on an encouraging bit of polish. Possibly, if I continue long enough, Some of these will become smooth, round pebbles, Shining and beautiful,. Such as children delight to find— And keep! —Vilate R. McAllister # 824 ow Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Patricia Nixon accompanied her husband, the President, in August on his swift visits to eight countries: the Philippine Islands, Indonesia, India, Thailand, South Korea, South Vietnam, Romania, England. She was most enthusiastically received, and, in many cases, she discussed and visited welfare volunteer projects because of her husband's stress on national volunteer programs. Ladybird and ex-President Lyndon B. Johnson celebrated the former president's birthday, August 29th, as luncheon guests of President and Mrs. Nixon at the Western White House in San Clementé, California. The two first families then flew 700 miles to Redwood National Park, where the President named and dedicated a lovely area "Ladybird Johnson Redwood Grove,"' honoring Mrs.

THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer 822 the Way to achieve it. A believeg that the Savi ] avior's 'NStruction Orphan applied to pj IM. He had litt] ut he Owned Some desert hills Pinion Pine. E "Ch year jn the Wagon with th e logs Which haq € town and delive Mas he loaded his fallen a d hauled them red the w ] Provide War Many miles to 00d to the Widows wh ™ homes for their Childre night, someti etimes beneath acl a White blizz ] n Ceived them ya drifting blizzarg. The ] and a fire, some oney cand Nd s a small fir tree., Ada J. J Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Leanor J. Brown; Dedeking eba O. Al Luella W. Fi llen_N. Barnes 823 s to the Field ' Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price to Be Increased It is with genuine regret we announce at this time that regardless of our efforts to continue The Relief Society Magazine at its present $2.00 subscription price, it now becomes necessary for us to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.) This price change becomes effective January 1, 1970 and applies to all subscriptions including renewals which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning in September, October, November, or December 1969, or renewals beginning in these months will be at the $2.00 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. Increases in the costs of labor, printing, paper, and postage force this step upon us. Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and to enlist their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline either for the sake of the organization or for the sake of the sisters who need the Magazine's instructions, guidance, and influence. We suggest that ward presidents take a few moments of time in the regular Relief Society meeting 'to call attention to some feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it. ~ THESE STONES, MY POEMS I am as a rushing stream Flowing over these rough stones, my poems. From far places where I have been— From the rugged mountains of learning, From the desert of maturing insight, From the forest of deep appreciation, From the valleys of experience, I have gathered abrasive sand and silt, Carrying all along with me. Each time that 1, so laden, Touch one of these my poems, Its roughest corners fall away, And it takes on an encouraging bit of polish. Possibly, if I continue long enough, Some of these will become smooth, round pebbles, Shining and beautiful,. Such as children delight to find— And keep! —Vilate R. McAllister # 824 ow Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Patricia Nixon accompanied her husband, the President, in August on his swift visits to eight countries: the Philippine Islands, Indonesia, India, Thailand, South Korea, South Vietnam, Romania, England. She was most enthusiastically received, and, in many cases, she discussed and visited welfare volunteer projects because of her husband's stress on national volunteer programs. Ladybird and ex-President Lyndon B. Johnson celebrated the former president's birthday, August 29th, as luncheon guests of President and Mrs. Nixon at the Western White House in San Clementé, California. The two first families then flew 700 miles to Redwood National Park, where the President named and dedicated a lovely area "Ladybird Johnson Redwood Grove,"' honoring Mrs. Johnson for '"'stirring the American conscience'' to preserve the beauty of the land for future generations. Some of the redwoods are 200 feet tall and 2,000 years old. Mrs. Johnson worked diligently to have the 58,000 acres of timberland dedicated for conservation purposes. Contributors to The Relief Society Magazine officiating and receiving literary awards at the annual Round-up of the League of Utah Writers in Salt Lake City, in September, included: Pearle M. Olsen, Mabel Harmer, Beulah Sadleir, Lael W. Hill, Betty W. Madsen, Christie Lund Coles, Dorothy J. Roberts, Claire W. Noall, Marilyn McMeen Miller, Hazel Loomis, Helen M. Neilson, Maxine Jennings, Ruth Rothe, Janice Dixon, Rosa Lee Lloyd, Gladys H. Burnham, Betty G.