[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 849 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

'We received many lovely compliments on the evening, and we received much loyal help and cooperation from the ward officers and members."' 

849 November 1969

 - Mexico City North Stake Celebrates Anniversary of Relief Society March 17, 1969 Sister Estrada, a ward president, cutting the Relief Society birthday cake; the gentleman standing behind her is Agricol Lozano, Stake President; to his left is the Stake Relief Society President Lucrecia Juarez de Suarez, and on his right are the ward Relief Society presidents. At the right, left to right, beginning with the third sister from the right: Adela Zapata de Mejia; Esperanza de Lara, Second Counselor in the stake Relief Society; Yolanda Juarez, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Suarez reports: '"'Our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by remembering our pioneer sisters. As Sister Estrada cut the cake, she gave a brief narration about the pioneers. The dress she is wearing in the picture belonged to a great-aunt of her husband. The Singing Mothers performed and ail the ward presidents were honored. The large cake was enjoyed by all."' Cascade Stake (Washington) Holds Annual Relief Society Day May 19, 1969 Mabel M. Collins, President, Cascade Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Three hundred sisters of the Cascade Stake enjoyed a program, luncheon, displays, and a sewing demonstration at our annual Relief Society day. The program honored the visiting teachers of the stake. The dramatization, 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented. "A lovely floral arrangement made by Helen Barton, stake Secretary-Treasurer was presented to the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teaching throughout the year. Following the program, a luncheon was served. Beside her plate, each sister found a pattern for a 'Happy Coat' and a list of sewing hints. 'The fashion show was presented by women from the ward Relief Societies. Marilyn Haymond, stake cultural refinement class leader, gave the narration to a background of soft music." Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liege District Presents ''Welcome to Spring''—1969 Helen G. Paramore, former supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A festive setting, delightful program, and an array of lovely handwork were the attractions at the 'Welcome to Spring' social held in the Brussels-Liége District in our mission. — 'Five branches combined to make this evening successful. It was the first time that the sisters in this area have had an opportunity to participate in this type of activity, and it has proved to be a valuable tool for improving the quality and participation in Relief Society activities. 'The district Relief Society presidency consists of Antoinette Otte; Hortense Gobin; Marie Forsbach; Louise Coenen; Jean Marichal; Lucie Didier. "Sheila D. Brown is the new supervisor of the Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society."' é 

850 November 1969

. Boise Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents ''The Excitement of Discovery,'' May 12, 1969 Seated, left to right: Joanne Olsen; Wally Tuck; Vera Dike; Juliet Ward. Standing, left to right: Leslie Gilliland; Bruce Wood; Lynn Putnam; Helen Martin. Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake presented the dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox, as part of a program themed 'The Excitement of Discovery,' based on a cultural refinement lesson with that title. "The stake Relief Society presidents of all three stakes in Boise were honored, as well as the former presidents of Boise Stake. Singing Mothers from three wards performed and departmental displays were set up. Light refreshments were served. All agreed that it was a delightful evening." eet, I PID aee De Taerea 4:55 0 RRR IIE IIT Sy IIE EE OT I RR IE a Orem West Stake (Utah), Orem Twentieth Ward Presents "Mothers and Daughters Day, June 10, 1969 Left to right, front row: Martha Pyne, Erna Walker, Ann Spackman, Louise Trotter, Olive Vance. Back row, left to right: Marie Russon, Amme Ridge, Lillie Anderson, Corinne Gabbitas, Gwen Richins, Ruth Rohbock, Betty Rowley, Elma Nielson, Peggy Whitwood. Florice H. Thomas, President, Orem West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Each Ward in our stake has enjoyed an occasion similar to this one this summer. Mothers and daughters, numbering 141, were honored at this social. Each sister received a lovely corsage. The program consisted of an original skit on modesty, 'Is Your Grass too Short?' written by Louise Rogerson. A professional cake decorating demonstration was presented by Bonnie Allred. All daughters over nine years old were given a cupcake to decorate. Two beginner's quilts were tied by the girls fourteen and older. There were ceramics to be painted. "A delicious luncheon was served and a special program honoring the mothers and daughters was enjoyed by everyone."' FURS SF RET Saeed le SAE SOR SD TT ST TTT NLT Te REC Lv Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present 'Prelude to Spring,'' March 28, 1969. Front row, left to right, Ruth D. Pearson, chorister; Myra A. Jorgensen, organist. Glenda C. Merrill, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program with the theme, 'Prelude to Spring.' 'Each of the wards, under the direction of its own music department, presented numbers, with the combined chorus presenting two. There were also some lovely solo numbers. 'This was indeed a lovely and well-accepted program and we were very proud of our Singing Mothers."' 2 LS) ASU RATS RS RESET, TS a mr st November 1969 Redondo Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Spring Festival, March 29, 1969 Picture: Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus. Virginia E. Kelson, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our annual Spring Festival was a very successful event. A chorus of ninety Singing Mothers under the capable direction of Julia R. Wentz and accompanied by Lynne H. DeSpain rendered lovely music in keeping with the theme 'Melodies of Love.' A delightful skit portraying a couple celebrating their golden wedding anniversary reminiscing over each phase of their life together from courtship through family life to old age, was written by Linda Blazer and unfolded through dialogue and song, including an original song composed by Marco Holbrook, one of the chorus members, entitled 'The Voices of Love.' 'Special numbers were rendered by the stake triple trio, a trumpet soloist, and the individual ward Singing Mothers. One of the highlights of the evening was the Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus. Directed by Sharron Bentley, this group originated as a result of entertaining at a bazaar, and have sung together for five years, thrilling the audiences. "Over 500 attended this event, and we felt that the lighting, staging, sound, and costumes added a note of glamor and professionalism to help make it a memorable evening." a eI TL SS a a ee South Idaho Falls Stake Presents ''Spring Festival of Lovely Things," April 18, 1969 Wilma W. Gardner, former president, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''An outstanding musical program featuring the Singing Mothers and other special numbers were appropriately woven into a lovely narration entitled 'Spring,' written by Barbara A. Knutson, social relations class leader. "Following the program, the several hundred guests viewed the many lovely displays in the cultural hall. There were handwork, painting, antiques, and many other lovely articles on display. The theme for the displays was 'A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever.' The Bake Shop and Homemade Candies and Ice Cream Shop were very popular." Melba B. Yost is the new president of South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Hyrum Stake (Utah) Conducts Successful Home Nursing Program Colleen P. Leatham, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We have been delighted with the home nursing program in our stake. It began in April of 1969 under the direction of former president Bernice B. Darley, her counselors, and the Red Cross executives, Cecilia White, Claire Sawyer, R. N., and Mary Clark, Red Cross Western Area Nursing Consultant. "To date we have had 260 sisters and four men complete the course. The classes were taught by seventeen registered nurses, nurses' aids, and specially trained sisters from our stake. It is our plan that every sister who desires this training be able to take it. The cooperation from the wards has been gratifying, and the priesthood support from the stake presidency and bishoprics has helped to insure the success of our program." 

854 November 1969

 East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont Third Ward Displays Quilts, May 14, 1969 Left to right: Beverly Carroll, quilting chairman, Edgemont Third Ward Relief Society; Daisy A. Tew, President; Montana Richards, Homemaking Counselor. Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our May leadership meeting, the Edgemont Third Ward displayed lovely quilts. More than 125 quilts were on display by thirty sisters. They featured the various stages of construction and ranged in styles from those of our pioneer sisters to the new and different quilts of today. Quilting books and patterns, as well as quilting stands, were sold during the day's activities."