[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 824 | General Feature | Editorial-"We Have Seen His Star. . . ." | Vesta P. Crawford]
[Editorial-"We Have Seen His Star. . . ." Vesta P. Crawford]
Ackerlind, Wilma Despain, Laverne Stallings, Dorothy Buchanan, Dora Flack, and Vesta P. Crawford. Indira Ghandi, Prime Minister of India, stood to be the loser in the August elections, since her Congress Party had split and the Right Congress Party, known as The Syndicate, was very powerful. However, her candidate, V. V. Giri, won the presidency. Helen Delich Bentley, forty-five, was nominated in August by President Nixon to be a member and chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission at $40,000 a year. She was maritime editor of the Baltimore Sun and has been a staff member of that paper since 1945. Mrs. Bentley and Virginia Mae Brown, who is chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission, are the highest-ranking women in the Government. Mary Brown and Nellie Broncho produced, in cooperation with Gilbert Teton, a beautiful pageant, ''The Legend of Redfish Lake,' at the annual Shoshone-Bannock Indian Festival at the Fort Hall Reservation, Idaho. The entire pageant was written, produced, directed, and performed by Shoshone-Bannock Indians. Tanya Waisman, of Finnish ancestry, and Sarah Harkness were prominent figures among the 6,000 American architects who convened in Chicago in August. Mrs. Waisman, who loves color, is against the new ready-made town, which allows ''no normal progression of growth'' — no individuality. Both oppose the idea of the forty-acre park, mostly landscape, with a highrise apartment tower in the middle. They favor every man blocking out his own quarter acre, and having space for "children to run in and out."' 825 TROUBLE a nd Mi () H L ' Zé ty a j & a 4 eg 7 a we 4 ss <: fl " SH Ag "i iy & y a i £Aczz, A / i, 7 wii "i 7 4 fi \ tS: { IP — if a ¥ ~~ *:. "yf F —— " Se yy lip. Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England m "Oh, Steve, it's perfect." Jean Roberts clasped her hands excitedly, as her eyes took in every detail of the picturesque cottage.
