[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 812 | Special Feature | "The Greatest of These" | Marianne C. Sharp]
Christ did not judge: to the "The Greatest of These" sinning woman he said, "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (John 8:11.) To Martha, overly busy with many things, he said, "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." (Luke 10:42.) To one puffed up with her own importance, he says "... Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all." (Mark 10:43-44.) The Savior was long-suffering and kind in his hour of deep anguish and loneliness. He longed to have his three beloved disciples watch and pray with him during his agony in Gethsemane. Not once, nor twice, but three times he returned where they were, only to find them asleep. Even an angel came and_ strengthened him, but the human companionship failed him. With the greatest charity Christ only said, "Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come." (Mark 14:41.) Whatever aspects of our characters need strengthening, we will find help to improve through prayer and study of the scrip- © tures. Then as beloved Relief Society gives us the opportunity to act according to the sympathies God has planted in our bosoms, we will not only perform the outward act but it will be accompanied by the inward grace. I pray each Relief Society member in the coming year may learn the truth "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." (1 Cor. 13:13.)

811 The Spiritual Value of Homemaking Counselor Louise W Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ On a dull gray day in Paris in October 1822, John Howard Payne found himself completely, unutterably homesick. Alone in his room he could think of nothing but his home in East Hampton on Long Island. Memories flooded his mind and while the mood was upon him he wrote the immortal "Home, Sweet Home." Into the song he poured his aching loneliness, the longings of his heart for the scenes of his boyhood, the remembering of his family, his assurance that his mother was thinking of him, his father missing him, and the beauty of his home world. 'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. The song was set to music by Sir Henry Rowley Bishop from a tune Payne had heard sung by an Italian peasant girl. It was sung in the Covent Garden Theater in \ 812 London in the first act of a play he wrote, "Clari, or, the Maid of Milan." As famous Maria Tree sang the song, her eyes filled with tears, her voice choked with emotion, and the whole audience responded with hushed attention and tears. "Home, Sweet Home" became one of the most famous songs in all the world. It has been translated into many languages, sung in almost every land. On the night of December 17, 1850, Jenny Lind, "the Swedish Nightingale," sang for one of the most distinguished audiences ever seen in a concert hall in the United States. President Fillmore, Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and others were in attendance. Daniel Webster rose at the end of the concert, and bowed to the singer in public tribute to her great voice. She smiled and then turned to face a gentle, white-haired man seated in the audience, John Howard Payne. Without taking her eyes from his face, the incomparable Jenny sang as if to him alone, "Home, Sweet Home." Profoundly moved, as people always were, the great audience heard and many wept openly. For 145 years this song has had great influence upon those who love their homes and cherish their family ties. This story is related by Lillian Watson in her "Light From Many Lamps," and serves to illustrate the appeal of home. The very word home has inspired poets to write about its glories, its simple joys, its place as a haven of security. Home has been the subject of many a painter's canvas, the basis of sociologists' lectures, of philosophers' treatises, of writers' essays, of politicians' preachments, and is a basis of the teachings of great religious leaders. One such inspired leader has assured us that the perfect homes on earth have their pattern in the heavens. With the home receiving such universal acclaim, can one doubt the spiritual values of homemaking? Can one question the wisdom of the Father in giving to his daughters the role of homemaker? Would one really wish it to be otherwise? No doubt the greatest spiritual value to be found in homemaking is to fulfill the desire of our Father in heaven to have his spirit children come to earth to choice homes. He entrusts to the care of earthly parents his sons and daughters to be reared in accordance with his commandments. As co-creator with God of the bodies of mortals, mothers are especially blessed with the opporThe Spiritual Value of Homemaking tunity to make homes worthy of the spirits which have come from the presence of God. A home wherein dwells the priesthood of God in an honored and respected position is a worthy home. When the father assumes his position of leadership, upheld by the mother, the children learn by example the full meaning of priesthood as a glorious gift from the Father to his sons. When the mother reigns as a queen in her home, companion-counselor to her husband, the children learn the full meaning of the equality of the gifts of a loving and wise Father to his sons and to his daughters. The spiritual value of love in the home is beyond measure, its _ influence so far-reaching as to stagger the imagination, its presence as necessary as life itself. Love is so many things—shown In sO Many ways. The homemaker shows love in the care of her home, in its cleanliness, order, and lack of confusion. Order is a law of heaven and is a necessary aspect of the pattern after which earthly homes are built. One cannot imagine anything unclean nor disorderly in heaven. The wise homemaker instills pride of home in her family to the extent that all contribute to order. The homemaker shows love in her sensitivity to the needs of others. She is so attuned to the souls of her husband and children that she becomes aware of their needs and, to the best of her ability, fulfills them. This virtue of sensitivity must be consciously nurtured. It is partly unselfishness; it is greatly thoughtfulness; it is mainly a mother's expression 

813 November 1969

 of love. Sensitivity to others' needs results in compassionate service to them. The homemaker shows love inawareness of the need to make her home a haven of security where each family member has complete confidence that he is loved for himself, and recognized as an individual. One's own special self is unique and must be so understood by those who love him, his abilities fostered, his talents encouraged, and his ambitions aided. Each family member must bask in the sunlight of approval as often as is good for him. The homemaker makes the climate for growth, establishes the atmosphere for culture, and provides the tools for refinement. Discipline is a spiritual value to be wisely administered by the homemaker. Happy people, useful citizens, dedicated Church workers come from homes where selfcontrol and righteousness are a part of their upbringing. To be taught obedience becomes a blessing throughout life. The homemaker has unceasing chances to teach, to guide, to lead. She must take advantage of her own learning opportunities to prepare herself. The spiritual value of lessons learned at home is shown in the character of those who hear and are taught. The children we are given are not only our children, they are God's as well. We should teach and train them as our Heavenly Father would have us do. The Spirit of the Lord will not always contend with man. We have long been urged to look to our homes. Church leaders continuously teach the necessity of well-ordered homes and endeavor to help us to know how to make our homes right.' The responsibilities and duties of parents are fully described, the duties of children are beautifully defined, the words of the Lord are concisely interpreted. It remains for us to heed and act accordingly. Nothing else is of greater importance. May all of us as homemakers inspire our families to love their "Home, Sweet Home." ERRATUM Through an inadvertency the word Paul was used in the place of Peter in President Hugh B. Brown's article "Testimony," page 725, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1969. (Reference Matthew 16:17). The sentence, should read: When the Apostle Peter answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: Blessed art thou Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." 814 IN MEMORIAM Elder John Longden Assistant to the Council of the Twelve November4, 1898-August 30, 1969 w Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 30, 1969 in Salt Lake City, Utah. He had served as an Assistant to the Twelve since 1951. During that time he fulfilled many important callings for the Church, and he endeared himself to members throughout the world. — Elder Longden was born in Oldham, = England, on November 4, 1898, the son of Thomas J. And Lizetta Taylor Longden. The family emigrated to the United States and Salt Lake City ten years later. Elder Longden was graduated from LDS Business College and attended the University of Utah. He served as a missionary in the Central States Mission. Elder Longden had a successful business career. At the time of his retirement he was area manager for National Electric Products Corporation. Interested in music and dramatic arts, Elder Longden studied voice and dramatics. He was well-known throughout the area as a gifted singer. He gave freely of his talent, singing at Church services, weddings, funerals, and other gatherings. In 1924 Elder Longden married LaRue Carr in the Salt Lake Temple. They had three daughters, Mrs. Grant (Gail) Hickman, and Mrs. Loren C. (Sharon) Dunn. The first daughter, Helen Margaret, died in childhood. There are three grandsons and five granddaughters. Elder Longden was always devoted to the gospel and served in several MIA superintendencies, as bishop, and as high councilman in two stakes, and on the General Church Welfare Committee prior to his call as a General Authority. As a General Authority, he served on the General Priesthood Committee and several youth committees. At the time of his death he was supervising all stakes and missions in the British Isles. Previously he had supervised missions in the South Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand. The General Board and Relief Society members in all stakes and missions of the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of Elder Longden and to his many friends. He has left a heritage in faith and dedication to the gospel for others to follow. 815 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ Once again it becomes my duty to present to you a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few General Board instructions and recommendations. The latest available figures are those from the 1967-68 annual report, since the 1968-69 reports were not due in the General Board Office until September 20 and, of course, are not audited and compiled as yet. In order to make the information somewhat more current, growth figures for the previous year will be used in estimating present conditions. Precise figures will be available to you when the compiled report for the fiscal year is published in a forthcoming issue of The Relief Society Magazine. GENERAL BOARD We mourn the loss, by death of two valiant and eminently capable members: Evon W. Peterson, General Secretary-Treasurer, and Mildred B. Eyring. STAKE AND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES With the growth of the Church, the number of stake and mission Relief Society organizations has grown. There were as 816 of September 1968, 462 stake and 74 mission Relief Society organizations, with 328 mission districts and more than 6,500 ward and branch Societies. MEMBERSHIP For the past several years there has been consistent growth in membership, but there still remain far too many Latter-day Saint women not enrolled who need Relief Society. We, therefore, appeal to officers and members alike to intensify their efforts in enrolling new members. The membership appeals are almost endless. There are, in reality, few women who cannot be reached by - one or the other of these. Estimating the membership growth for 1968-69 to be the same as for the previous fiscal year (or 11,000), there is now a total membership of 322,500. Of this number 3,500 are non-Latterday Saints. Each year we receive gratifying reports of nonLatter-day Saint Relief Society members becoming baptized members of the Church. ATTENDANCE It is our conviction that there are comparatively few enrolled members who do not attend some meetings during the year. We must recognize that under certain circumstances a sister may be unable to attend regardless of her desire to do so; for example, personal or family illness may interfere, or the infirmities of age or the hazards of winter roads where distances to the meeting place require car travel. Nonetheless, attendance is) a continuing concern and ward presidents should be urged to do all in their power to interest women in regular attendance and to help make it possible for them to attend.