Narvik and Bergen May Booth Talmage
On the little boat which carried us north from Trondhjem, we found experiences that were absolutely unique to us. The opportunities for observation of customs and people were vastly different from those afforded on the great ocean liners. The tiny cabins were comfortable, and food good, and the miniature drawing rooms quite large enough for the few who wished to use them; but in none of these did our chief interest center. There were delicious sunshine, exhilarating breezes and a glorious sea outside. There was an ever changing panorama of scenery, with new delights to broaden experience at every turn. There was no suggestion of an ocean voyage as our little craft threaded its way in and out of those fjords. Contrasts of narrow passages scarcely wider than a river, but always emerging into a broad expanse of water; and charming emerald hills, their rugged, barren crags, their nooks and coves, where snuggled tiny villages named after the viks (pronounced veeks) or little tiny inlets of the fjords, which villages are inhabited by men and women whom choise of nature has placed far indeed from the "maddening crowd;" and their busy, bustling cities, where industries are carried on and thousands have congregated "to live and move and have their being." The Captain was a pleasing, approachable man and chatted freely with some of the passengers. He had been to the ends of the earth?if there are any?and spoke English well. Our boat, however, was by no means intended for voyagers only. It was laden with everything from cabbages to?well, not kings exactly, but things almost as important to the lives of those isolated people. A shrill whistle announced our approach as we came in sight of a little town near a "vik." We would then see one or two small boats loosened from their moorings and rowed out to get the passengers, mail, or freight, brought to them by our vessel. We slowed down but did not stop as they came alongside us and attached their boat to ours by ropes. A ladder or wooden stairway was lowered, by means of which the passengers from the shore came aboard our ship and others descended to sail away to their inland nooks. Afterward a freight craft replaced the one for passengers, and received such commodities as had been consigned to that place. The variety of things carried was a source of intense interest, as we watched the unloading process at various places. Lumber, sugar, vegetables, live chickens, flowering window plants, a 
 sewing machine, canned goods from the U. S. A., and a huge stone, were some of the things we noted, though it taxed our curiosity to know why the last article was brought, since stones of the self-same kind were plentiful in the region. At one landing stage there were 'huge piles of sorted fishheads and bones. We learned that they were to be used by a fertilizing plant and glue factory in the vicinity. Only a few coarse-garbed workmen were in view, and almost no houses; yet before we left there came tripping along a charming, fairhaired maiden of about fifteen, with her little brothers. Her dainty, light, blue-sprigged dimity was the season's latest style; and the little fellows, one with a trim dark suit, the other in bright red, might have been attired ready to start for a picture show in some metropolis. They looked quite incongruous with that setting of unkempt men and ill smelling piles of fish bones. NARVIK They were doubtless the children of the manager, whose wife preserved her ideals of self-respect regardless of environment; and, of course, she will never know what a pleasing memory was thus left on the minds of traveling strangers. Notwithstanding this bit of philosophizing we could not help exclaiming, "What a life for a young girl with dreams and hopes and aspirations!" We had as fellow-passengers a troop of Boy Scouts, who did honor to their organization by their happy dispositions, their courteous, manly ways and general good behavior. They also understood English and spoke it, though brokenly. Along NARVIK AND BERGEN 125 the way they were greeted by representatives of other troops and warmly welcomed when their destination was reached. We were sorry to lose their cheery presence. On the second day out we touched at Boda, and went ashore for an eight hour respite. My diary records the following facts concerning this interesting place to which the Norwegian king had come two weeks before to open a big fair: A walk about town furnished some surprises. We found three banks located in fine buildings, fourteen autos waiting near the hotel, fifty boats of various types and sizes in the charming little harbor, an electric light shop, photograph gallery, Ford salesroom, good modern hotel, comfortable homes with flowers in almost every window, not common household plants, but the luxurious La France and other choice varieties of roses that flourish so luxuriantly in that vicinity due to the favorable climate,. As President Christopherson told us. In a green grocery shop there were bananas, oranges, cherries, gooseberries, tomatoes, cucumbers, cabbages, turnips and carrots?these in a country farther north than Iceland!" At 4:00 p. M. We reembarked, and' reached our destination, Narvik, at 2:00 p. M. The following day. One is apt to imagine that within the Arctic Circle the people dress in furs and have to use much oil and fat in their diet in order to keep warm. We were pleasantly surprised to find glorious sunshine and a climate that made even a light spring wrap unnecessary. Most of our little colony were out to meet the boat. It was to them an occasion of twofold significance. They were greeting for the first time their own Mission President, Brother Martin Chistopherson, and the President of the European Missions, for the first time in years. We were taken by Branch President Emil Evensen and our one lone elder, Hyrum L. Jensen?not on a sledge, with reindeer, but in an ordinary automobile?to a comfortable hotel. A delicious chicken dinner with soup, vegetables, salad and desert as accompaniments, served on attractively decorated tables, gave no evidence of our being far from our homeland, nor did we observe anything in the dress, customs, or climate noticeably different from those in the southern cities of Norway.
The city of Narvik. Which is built largely upon hills, has a population of about 7,500. The buildings are substantial looking, and there was an air of general prosperity. No unemployment exists in the city, we were told, which seemed to us very wonderful, since we had so recently left Great Britain, where the coal strike was on, and where for several months there had been more than a million people unemployed. To Narvik is sent by rail the crude ore from the Swedish mines. This is then transferred to boats and taken to England or other places to be smelted. This industry is responsible


in large measure for the thriving condition of this little northern town, which boasts three banks and a trio of newspapers.
What can one say that will do justice to our little band of devoted members, so far remote from other branches? They number not more than twenty-five in all, and aside from a change of the missionaries once or twice a year and a visit from their mission president at widely separated intervals, or of the European missions' president once every few years, they are entirely isolated from the rest of the Church. Few Church works and none of our magazines are published in their language; no great semi-annual conference can they attend to give them spiritual uplift; they have no visits from stake board members to offer help; no lectures to afford a change, and yet we found the same genuine gospel spirit, and the testimonies they bore lacked no whit of fervor or earnestness. One member, Sister Lassen, had come by boat from her home a distance of 105 miles to attend the meetings. She is veritably the "one of a city" as there is no other member where she resides. The branch had no members who were out of employment and none who needed assistance; hence the Relief Society problems were not difficult to solve; but the longing to be visited and built up spiritually was intense. This was evinced in many ways that left no room for doubt.
On the Sunday of our arrival, September 5, two public sessions were held. Among the visitors at the evening meeting was the editor of one of the local papers. He seemed much interested
NARVIK AND BERGEN 127
in the proceedings and remained for a pleasant conversation after the service closed. Having lived for six years in America, he, of course, spoke our language well. President Evensen understands English and speaks it with a somewhat broken accent.
Supper, after we reached the hotel, was unique in that it was all placed on a long table and the guests were free to help themselves. As at a buffet meal at home, the plates and cutlery were in piles and the variety of food was delicious enough to tempt the appetites of the most exacting. Guests could replenish their plates as often as desired; the moderate prices being no different if one ate much or little.
On the boat going up we were amused to hear a young woman inquire with apparent seriousness as to which hour at the North Cape would be the best to see the midnight sun. We were a month or more too late to see this phenomenon in Narvik at midnight, but we climbed a rather high hill at 11 p. M., and forty-five minutes later watched the lingering afterglow disappear. Before descending we were able to read very fine print.
Aside from the interesting sunset, the view from the hill was wonderful. The broad expanse of water, with boats at anchor, the distant mountains outlined against the sky as far as the eye could reach, the twinkling lights from homes on the hills opposite, and the quiet of the midnight hour, were all deeply impressive. As we descended we met an elderly man taking what seemed to be a leisurely evening stroll, and a bit farther on several young couples were enjoying the twilight hour. We. Were curious to learn how the young men could decide when it was time to go home, since it would not be really dark before the morrow's sun would rise.
Other meetings were held on Monday, and between such we were entertained at the home of Sister Aslang Sorensen, the Relief Society president. About 11 p. M. A few of these newly made friends went with us to the boat. With tear-dimmed eyes they said farewell; there was much sympathy in our hearts as we watched them go slowly home. To them it meant long months of waiting until another visitor would come, and it might be years before both their mission president and a member of the Council of the Twelve could make the long journey together.
Shortly after rising the following morning we left our little boat and boarded a much finer one, which was on its return trip from the North Cape. Among the interesting passengers aboard were two nieces of the well known scientist, the late Lord Lister. They, with their cousin and two friends from Switzerland, had waited in vain for three days to see the midnight sun, but the obstinate clouds refused to lift. Though no longer young, this group of women knew how to get much enjoyment from life. Two were artists, the others keenly interested in botany; it was a


real pleasure to converse with them and watch their animated faces. As we wound in and out of the fjords, now among high forbidding crags and soon amidst the loveliest green hills with tiny towns, on "viks," hidden in nook or cove, one could not but envy these artist friends and their talents. With swift, sure hand they caught the passing loveliness and held it captive for home friends to enjoy.
One gorgeous sunset made indelible impression on my memory. A gateway between two jutting hills revealed the sun just ready to sink into the sea. The softly undulating waves made the great ball of flame and gold appear to dance upon the water. Unlike any previous sight some optical illusion caused the lower half to look like the reddest embers, with a band of black dividing it from its upper half of gold. The crest of the waves caught and held this glorious glint of fiery color, which was in turn reflected in the depressions in opalescent tints. The scene was breathtaking in its indescribable loveliness.
Our boat arrived again at Trondhjem on Thursday morning in time for a delicious breakfast at the mission home. As no other vessel left for Bergen before evening, we had the pleasure of another day with our missionaries there. The Relief Society sister again brought a basket of daintily prepared food for us to have on the boat in case we should not always want the fare provided. Their thoughtfulness was deeply appreciated. Sister Borghild E. Nielsen, the mission secretary, again joined us on the trip to Bergen, which place we reached on Saturday morning. This beautiful Norwegian city holds a very warm place in my heart, built as the city is back from the harbor, and stretching upward between hills covered with all kinds of evergreens. Not alone between the hills but on one side the houses climb on and on up to the very top. A large restaurant, fitted up in charming style, crowns the summit; and passengers are conveyed from below by means of a funicular railroad. There are landing stages on the way where people who live in these high places get on and off. A well constructed road winds back and forth for pedestrians who like to climb. We preferred to use this on the downward trip and were rewarded by a prolonged view of the wonderful scenery spread out before us. The harbor with its boats arriving and departing, the river with smaller craft plying between the harbor, and a lake up in the hills beyond the town, the houses dotting the hillside and valley, made another memorable picture.
NARVIK AND BERGEN 129
The meetings held during our three days sojourn in Bergen included the splendid features of those attended in other cities, The well nigh perfect blending of voices produced music that lingers yet to give us joy. Each day the Relief Society officers prepared excellent meals for the missionaries of the Conference and the visiting guests. As in other places we were overwhelmed by all this self-sacrificing and kindness.
Our visit to the Scandinavian countries was now at an end. At the wharf a large group gathered. They came with flowers and other tokens of remembrance. After we embarked and sailed they walked to the end of the long pier and waved until eyes could no longer detect the bits of fluttering white. Our hearts were full of blessings for the warm friends we met or made throughout all the missions visited; and there were also fervent prayers for honest souls who yet shall come within the gospel fold.
My Faith Helen McQuarrie
"Long time ago I prayed And Heavenly Father heard, And lo: I stand on Zion's soil Rejoicing, glad and unafraid
Oh Father dear, may I 'Mid all these wondrous scenes Within Thy house be found Purified, for Thou art nigh.
Nurse who Attended Eugene Field When a Boy Now Resident of Utah
Extract from the Semi-Weekly Herald-Republican, Salt Lake City, Utah, Tuesday, June 21, 1910, presented to the Relief Society Magazine by Mrs. Moon.
A way beyond Lagoon, on the North Farmington road, lives a sweet-faced, gentle-voiced old lady whose distinction it is to have been the nurse of Eugene Field. Would she leave her garden for a few minutes to talk about her famous charge? Her face lighted up with pleasure at the question, and she accepted the invitation cordially for he was her "boy," she said.
In 1851, when Eugene Field was 9 or 10 months old, Mrs, Temperance Moon, of Farmington, Utah, then a child herself of 11, was for two years employed as a nurse girl in the family of Roswell M. Field, father of the distinguished writer. Little Eugene was her especial charge. In 1853 Mrs. Moon came to Utah with her brother and heard no more from the Field family until she wrote Eugene Field, in 1891, to ask if the writer of the verses, which she had come to love, was by any chance her little charge of earlier years. Field responded with warmth to her letter, said he remembered his old nurse, and cordially inquired about her family and old-time mutual friends. The letters which passed between them are a great source of comfort to Mrs. Moon, and the correspondence only terminated at Field's death. "If the had lived, I believe he would have come to see me," she said sadly. It was the same "if he had lived" that hundreds of warm personal friends repeat with regret as they mourn the early death of the writer.
Sends Her His Picture
Field sent Mrs. Moon a picture with the inscription, "Frances Field and her baby Eugene Field. Copy of a picture made in 1851," and asked her to write him if she remembered it. Mrs. Moon says that she does, and a later one when she herself took the child in his first little suit of clothes to have his picture taken.. This one, she would give many times its value to possess, but there is no means of knowing if a copy is in existence.
The new clothes were of black velvet, with a circular cloak that fell to his heels and a black velvet hat and feather. The child was very large for his age Mrs. Moon says, fair, with dark blue eyes and soft, pliable light hair that was quite long for a baby. This fairness Eugene Field kept up in later life, a newspaper story describing him as "tall, slender, boyish, blonde and aggressive."
Mrs. Moon, whose maiden name was Temperance Westwood,
EUGENE FIELD. 131
lost her parents when she was about 11 years old, and it was found necessary for the child to go to work. Her sister, Mercy, was at the time cook in the Field household in St. Louis, Mo. The family was in good circumstances and kept a considerable establishment, living in a three-story house in one of the best residence suburbs of the city. Mrs.: Field came into the kitchen one day when Temperance was there visiting her sister, and it was explained to her that the little girl must secure a situation. "I want you to stay here," she said to Temperance, "and take care of Eugene, who is getting to be a big boy." Later, when another child was born, Temperance had the entire charge of Eugene, sleeping with him in the nursery and looking after him all day long.
Field Loved Stories
Mrs. Moon recalls particularly that in the last months of her care of him, when the child was in his fourth year, how he loved stories. The mother often gave Temperance money to buy fairy tales to read to Eugene., "He seemed in spirit older than his body," said Mrs. Moon, and added that the child clung to her and that she could do anything with him. He was a good baby, large and healthy, according to Mrs. Moon, and of a very inquiring disposition. One of his favorite tales was Puss in Boots.; Mrs. Field was a very particular woman, insisting that the best care must be given her children. She did not like nicknames, so the boys were called by their full names, Eugene and Roswell. The father, a lawyer of considerable local note, was very fond of his children and used to come to the nursery to play with his boys oftener than the nurse quite liked. He was a great smoker, and Mrs. Moon remembers seeing him striding up and down the parlors, declaiming some speech he was about to make.
When Mrs. Moon came to Utah, in 1853, she parted with great regret from the little boy she had come to love. Crossing the plains with an ox team, and the experiences of the strange life in the west, caused her to lose sight of her charge, whose mother soon after died, and the family was broken up. Mrs. Moon married Henry Moon, in 1856. They lived for some time in Salt Lake, but later moved to Farmington, where she now resides.
Field's Mother Dies
While he was yet a little child, Eugene Field's mother died, and he was placed in the care of his aunt, Miss-Mary. French,


EUGENE FIELD 133
of Amherst, Mass. At 17 years of age he entered Williams college. His father, Roswell M. Field, a distinguished lawyer of St. Louis, who is perhaps best known as one of the counsel for Dred Scott in the famous slavery case, was a thorough scholar. He required the young student to carry on all correspondence in Latin. Before the son had been long at Williams college the father died. Professor John W. Burgess, who was appointed the boy's guardian, placed him in Knox college, at Galesburg, Ill. He studied there two years and later at the University of Missouri. In 1871, having attained his majority, Field traveled in Europe. He then became a newspaper reporter on the St. Louis Evening Journal, from which time his career as a writer was assured. His death occurred November 4, 1895, at the age of 45.
It is doubtful if any other writer has woven so many beautiful child fancies into verse. Even if he had never written anything else, these were enough to bring fame to Eugene Field. His prose writings prove him to have been gifted with delicate sentiment and rare humor. His early death, at a time when he was doing his best work, cut off a career that had only just begun to shape itself.
Following is a copy of a letter Mr. Field wrote Mrs. Moon:
Dear Mrs. Moon: Your letter pleased me very much indeed. I send you a copy of a picture of my mother and myself?a copy of one made when I was a little baby. Please tell me whether it looks natural to you. The Pomeroy girls, Mary and Stella, are both married. Mary lives here in Chicago, and has no children. Stella lives in St. Louis and has a large family. My aunt Belle is now a widow, living in Swanzey, N. H. She married a farmer named Angier. I married in 1875, and we have three children living, a girl of 15 and boys aged 12 and 9. We have lost two boys and one girl. My brother is married but has no children. He is one of the editors of the Kansas City Star. I shall try to send you a picture of my father if I can get a copy made of one we have. Do let me hear from you often. Your letter interested me very much. God bless you. Ever sincerely yours, EUGENE FIELD. 420 Fullerton Avenue, Chicago. May 13, 1891.
The Prime of Life
Thy youth is still upon thee; use it well: No days so precious as the days of prime! Count every hour a gem; keep sentinel Against each robber of thy priceless time: Count every day misspent a failure and a crime.. ?Horatius Bonar