Reminiscences of the Grand-daughter of Hyrum Smith Nellie Story Bean 8
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 11
Disarmament Conference Delegations 18
Book Notices 22
Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman 23
Conventions and Conferences 31
Reforming Mother 32
Vocational Guidance Dr. John T. Miller 35
Responsibility of Parents in Teaching the Gospel to their Children Lucy Wright Snow 38
The Art of Cookery in the Hotel Utah 41
World Happenings James H. Anderson 44
Editorial: How Do You Do, New Year? 48
Week's Study in the Brigham Young University 49
To Stake Teacher-Training Supervisors 51
Guide Lessons 52  ADVERTISEMENT  The Character Builder for 1922  In 1922 The Character Builder will enter upon its 21st year under the present editorial and business management. Its articles on CHILD WELFARE, VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE AND HUMAN CONSERVATION in 1922 will be the best that have ever been published. Every Latter-day Saint should read them. Every home needs The Character Builder; it has now been published in Salt Lake City for twenty years. It is only $1 a year. Send $1 for 1922 to Dr. John T. Miller, editor, 625 South Hope St., Los Angeles, California. (If you will send $2.50 for Dr. Miller's new book on HUMAN CONSERVATION before Jan. 1, 1922, the Character Builder will be sent you a year free.)  Greeting In this eightieth year of the Relief Society, we offer hearty congratulations, love, and sincere good wishes, to the members of the organization throughout the world, and rejoice in the great good which has been accomplished. If the eighteen original members of the Society, who met and started the work on that memorable 17th of March, 1842, could speak, and if all those faithful workers who followed these early pioneers could speak, we feel sure that they, too, one and all, would rejoice with us in the accomplishments and labors of our great Society. Our hearts are filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to our heavenly Father, not only for his mercy, his guidance and his help, but for the success of the work itself, and for the privileges and opportunities he has given to the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are grateful and thankful to all who have contributed to the Relief Society cause; to the general, stake, and local Priesthood, who have given us guidance and loyal support; to the members of the General Board for their untiring efforts and helpful suggestions in our councils, and for their labors in visiting all the stakes in conventions and conferences, which they have recently accomplished, alnd which they did willingly and cheerfully; to the stake officers and board members for their unceasing labors and hearty support; to the ward officers and teachers who are in immediate charge of the real work of the organization and who make constant and daily personal sacrifice in the cause; to the devoted and faithful members themselves, the real Relief Society workers, who make the organization itself possible. We thank you one and all, and pray that God will bless and strengthen and support you at all times. And now, in this new year, let us go onward and upward; let us cherish the ideals and standards of the past, but let us go forwvard with our faces to the rising sun, with the faith and hope that the Lord will direct us and help us to fit our labors to meet the present and future needs of the organization. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, JENNIE B. KNIGHT, LOUISE Y. ROBISON,. General Presidency National Women's Relief Society.