[Delbert Leon Stapley, Sixty-Seventh Apostle by Camilla Eyring Kimball]

DELBERT LEON STAPLEY, SIXTY-SEVENTH APOSTLE 807? In these high callings.' tion from Elder Stapley's first message from the Tabernacle pulpit indicates his high regard for his wife, Ethel Davis Stapley, to whom he was sealed in the Salt Lake Temple January 14, 1918, the ceremony being performed by, President George Albert Smith, then a member of the Council of the Twelve.
They have two daughters, Berdine and Phyllis, a son Orley S., and four beloved grandchildren.
Leaving their lovely new home in Arizona and the many life-long friends as well as relatives, to make This quota- - a new home in Salt Lake City, will not be done without heartache, but people of their caliber are not looking for the easy road, but always for the opportunity for greater service. 'They will look forward, not backward. At fifty-three years of age, Elder Stapley brings into the councils of the General Authorities of the Church, a strength of character, a breadth of vision, and a background of experience and accomplishment that will be of great worth to these councils and to the members of the Church throughout the world. >_< She Child and the Sree Katherine F. Larsen Here rises the fir, Tall, mysterious, Redolent of forest And the legendary time; Frosted with tinsel, Glass bells and balls, Shimmering strands and flashing baubles, Many-hued as a rainbow.. Here, on the green, spreading, spice-sweet branches Hang tenuous dreams In the bright, bold colors of childhood. The young child gazes, chin-tipped; He is all eyes Into which the colors repeat and repeat Back into his pliant mind The mark and mold of enchantment. He does not yet think, he can only feel What Christmas is And meanings seep through trinkets, indistinct, Irrelevant as tinsel to ice, As colored glass to fire. Thus, through the medium of the fairy-tale tree, Tricked out with baubles, Pncked with lights, And tantalizingly pranked with sweets, Here to his child's mind, Reflected and refracted from the mymiad facets, Must glow The wholeness and the mystery of love.