[Music: The Singing Mothers Chorus by Florence J. Madsen]

music. The Purposes of; the Singing Mothers Chorus (a) To afford an added cultural and spiritual outlet for the members of Relief Society. (b) To give opportunity for vocal exexpression.: (c) To offer training in the fundamentals of music. (d) To increase appreciation for music. (e) To experience the joy of singing together. Discovering Musical Talent (a) Search in your ward for the musical talent that should be affiliated with the Relief Society chorus. (b) Observe the congregation as you conduct and find those who appear to be singing well and invite them to the chorus. (c) Invite young mothers and the new ward members who are musically inclined to participate. It will help them to get acquainted.
Arranging and Conducting Rehearsals (a) Have a definite time and place for rehearsals. (b) Practice, 'if possible, in a place where there are two rooms with pianos. (c) Allow time for part rehearsals.
This will make the time spent more profitable.
This necessitates having two accompanists, unless the conductor can play. (d) Rehearse the first and second sopranos together, or the second sopranos and altos. 'This makes the second soprano an outer part and the melody easier to hear. (e) Conduct the rehearsal with dispatch; do not waste time. (f) Outline the program to be followed in rehearsal. 4. Seating Arrangement of the Chorus Arrange the permanent seating of the chorus members after you have become acquainted with their voices. (a) First sopranos on the left. (b) Second sopranos in the center. (c) Altos on the right of the conductor. (d) Seat members, if possible, according to height. (e) Place the louder voices of each part towards the back of the chorus. (f) Place the softer voices in the front rows. (g) Seat those who have had little experience in singing, Or who have difficulty in sustaining a part, in the center _of their group. 5- Preliminary Singing Exercises (a) Singing groups need the individual voices blended into a unified tone quality.
This is accomplished by singing easy vocal exercises together.
LESSON DEPARTMENT (b) Continue practicing the hum without muscular restrictions. (c) Practice singing O then alternate with the other vowels using M and L as consonants. Tone quality should, as much as possible, remain constant, regardless of changing pitches and vowels. (e) Resonance and roundness of tone quality should be present in the small vowel sounds in such words as: has, shall, at, let, get, met, lit, (d) mit, writ, be, we, thee. Extend this list and practice regularly. (f) Mellow the singing of er, ir, ur, ear, in words; for example: better, bird, burn, yearn, etc. 6. Choosing and Rehearsing Song Material (a) Choose songs for your group that are suitable in range and not too difficult. Occasionally, present material that offers greater challenge. Select songs appropriate to the occasion. (b) (c) Choose with care material as to text and music value. Bring to the class several copies of a choral number for analysis, discussion, and practice. (e) Use the baton and its patterns; make of conducting a meaningful art. (f) Study thoroughly the texts of songs. (d) 7. Planning Appearances for the Chorus The chorus is more attractive when seen in the conventional white blouse and dark skirt. (a) Arrange definite dates throughout the year for appearances. (1) Singing in conferences. (2) Giving concerts. (3) Presenting a cantata or another musical work. (4) Providing musical numbers for pageants and tableaux. (b) Choose a subject from the scrip: tures or from the works of the 861
Ibear ha an Cabernacle Coir << ae Columbia Records Volume 1 includes: | Come, Come Ye Saints O My Father Abide With Me Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah The Lord's Prayer Volume II includes: Let the Mountains Shout for Joy Now the Day Is Over Hallelujah Chorus Hail, Bright Abode
SEND THIS COUPON
We pay postage in U. S. | Daynes Music Company: 47
South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Please send:: (] Choir Album Vol. I __ $6.00: | J Vol. I on Long Play Record 3.85 [] Choir Album Vol. II _- 6.00: O Vol. II on Long Play Record 3.85.: Wetemne isso. -oseceess. Cee eee PVs a re City & State. Eee Co. FIRST OF AbL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH; 4 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH 862 THE WORLD'S FINEST _ PIANOS e Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos ——-—— The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ee All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Beautiful Utah Foliage for Fall and Winter Bouquets and Centerpieces Selected thistles, grasses, mist, sages, pods, cones, 24" height Woods Cross, Utah On Highway 91
Find enclosed $2 for one Box or $5 for 3
Gift Boxes of Utah Foliage. Check color: Indian Summer[] Blues [] Rose [] with harmonizing silver or gold and clay base. _—__————— Adi Gnt hn cceveeerevseen.. Omn gto im Write for prices on larger displays. Also wood fiber corsages. WESTERN FLOWER CO.  poets to be given by a competent reader and with music which correlates with the subject. Use choruses, solos, duets, organ, and strings, and present as a concert. This makes an interesting and inspiring program. (c) Interest in music is kept alive only in proportion as musical projects and activities are provided. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Of what value is a Singing Mothers Chorus? 2. How may the tone quality of a chorus be improved? (a) Discuss the necessary techniques required. 3. How should the chorus be seated: (a) As to parts? '(b) As to types of voice? (c) As to height? >