[Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Appointed Acting President of the Council of the Twelve by Henry A. Smith]

Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Appointed Acting President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles Henry A. Smith Member, Deseret News Editorial Staff, and Counselor in Pioneer Stake Presidency ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING' SMITH ARRYING on in the tradition of his forebears who, before him, were high in the leadership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith was set apart October 5, 1950, as acting president of the Council of the Twelve. He had been sustained to this position by the general conference five days earlier.
This new assignment came to Elder Smith by reason of his seniority among the apostles. He was set apart to this position in the Salt 
Lake Temple by his immediate senior, President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, who was also sustained and set apart as the President of the Council of the Twelve.
Thus new responsibility came to Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, who for forty years, has been one of the Council of the 'Twelve.
These years have been filled with responsibility and new assignments. 'They have earned him a_ reputation among his associates for industry and leadership.
Recognized as an outstanding authority on Church doctrine and history, his pen and voice have been prolific and loud in expounding the principles of the gospel. Elder Smith's life-long campaign for truth and uncompromising fight against sin give him the outward appearance of severity which hides the true man, tender in his feelings toward his fellow men; sympathetic, and possessed of a great capacity for love and compassion.
This is a side of Elder Smith that is most revealed to those who know him best—who have earned his confdence and respect.
Thus knowing him they delight in his association and companionship. His large devoted family are a tribute to Elder Smith in the lives ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH they live and the service they give to the Church.
There have been eleven sons and daughters. One son, Lewis, was a victim of an African plane crash during World War II. All five of his sons, including Lewis, have filled missions for the Church. All eleven children have been faithful and devoted to the Church; all have been in the Salt Lake 'Temple. No son ever had a more ardent supporter in his athletic career than Milton "Mitt" Smith, now a University of Utah football star. Elder Smith has an interest also in baseball. As chairman of the board of trustees of Brigham Young University, he is today one of the spearheads in the current Church-wide fund drive for the school's new fieldhouse. Elder Smith was born in Salt Lake City, July 19, 1876. His father was President Joseph F. Smith, who in 1901 became the sixth president of the Church. His mother was Julina Lambson Smith. His grandfather was Patriarch Hyrum Smith, the martyred brother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was carefully trained for a long life of service to the Church by a noble father and loving, kindly mother, who reared him in a true Latter-day Saint home where the highest virtues prevailed.
Prepared early for such service, Elder Smith has held many prominent positions in the Church in addition to the apostleship to which he was ordained in April 1910. He is at present Church Historian and Recorder, beginning a career in the Church historian's office as a clerk in 1901, following his return from the British Mission. He is presi- 805 dent of the Genealogical Society of the Church, to which position he was named in 1934. His service with this society dates back to his appointment as secretary and director in 1907. Elder Smith has served as a counselor and then as president of the Salt Lake Temple, and since 17 he has been a member of the Church Board of Education.
This listing can of necessity give but a few of the many assignments that have been his in the forty years since he became a General Authority. He has traveled widely throughout the Church in his service as an apostle. In the spring of 1939, he, accompanied by his wife, went to Europe to tour the various missions and meet in conference with the mission presidents and _ consider problems pertaining to missionary work.
While there touring the West German Mission the Nazi forces invaded Poland, thus bringing on the great struggle, worldwide, commencing in 1939.
This necessitated the evacuation af our missionaries who were serving in Europe.
This took several weeks.
Acting on orders from the First Presidency, Elder Smith successfully and safely, with the help of mission presidents, got the entire group, comprising 697 missionaries, back on American soil. His appointment as acting President of the Council of the Twelve, brings to a busy, capable man, additional responsibilities which will receive the same energetic, efficient direction that has characterized his every effort as one of the General Authorities of the Church. Delbert Leon Stapley, - Sixty-Seventh Apostle Camilla Eyring Kimball "RUT seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." Elder Delbert L. Stapley, newly appointed member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, signified his willingness to follow this admonition when he declared: "This call to the Council is the first call of my life, and all my personal interests are now of only secondary importance and _ consideration." It was on December 11, 1896 in Mesa, Arizona, that the boy Delbert was born, and here he received his early training in school and Church activity.
Following the filling of a mission in the Southern States, under Elder Charles A. Callis, he enlisted in the Marine Corps to serve his country in World War I. As president and general manager of the O. S. Stapley Company, founded by his father, he has been eminently successful in the business world. His civic activities have brought him the respect of the citizens of Maricopa County and the State of Arizona.
Years of consistent and faithful Church service and outstanding leadership ability are requisites to the successful performance of this high calling to the apostleship.
Seventeen years as superintendent of the Maricopa Stake Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, and thirty years of active service in various Boy Scout positions from  DELBERT L. STAPLEY scout leader to national representative, qualify him to now become a Church-wide leader of youth. On February 27, 1930, he was chosen as counselor in the newly created Phoenix Stake presidency, and in December 1947 he was sustained as the stake president. Enthusiasm, efficiency, and faithful attention to detail have made his leadership outstanding. "I deeply appreciate my good wife for the attitude she took when this call came, and I know that in this work if it were not for the good women the men could. Not succeed DELBERT LEON STAPLEY, SIXTY-SEVENTH APOSTLE 807? In these high callings.' tion from Elder Stapley's first message from the Tabernacle pulpit indicates his high regard for his wife, Ethel Davis Stapley, to whom he was sealed in the Salt Lake Temple January 14, 1918, the ceremony being performed by, President George Albert Smith, then a member of the Council of the Twelve.
They have two daughters, Berdine and Phyllis, a son Orley S., and four beloved grandchildren.
Leaving their lovely new home in Arizona and the many life-long friends as well as relatives, to make This quota- - a new home in Salt Lake City, will not be done without heartache, but people of their caliber are not looking for the easy road, but always for the opportunity for greater service. 'They will look forward, not backward. At fifty-three years of age, Elder Stapley brings into the councils of the General Authorities of the Church, a strength of character, a breadth of vision, and a background of experience and accomplishment that will be of great worth to these councils and to the members of the Church throughout the world. >_< She Child and the Sree Katherine F. Larsen Here rises the fir, Tall, mysterious, Redolent of forest And the legendary time; Frosted with tinsel, Glass bells and balls, Shimmering strands and flashing baubles, Many-hued as a rainbow.. Here, on the green, spreading, spice-sweet branches Hang tenuous dreams In the bright, bold colors of childhood. The young child gazes, chin-tipped; He is all eyes Into which the colors repeat and repeat Back into his pliant mind The mark and mold of enchantment. He does not yet think, he can only feel What Christmas is And meanings seep through trinkets, indistinct, Irrelevant as tinsel to ice, As colored glass to fire. Thus, through the medium of the fairy-tale tree, Tricked out with baubles, Pncked with lights, And tantalizingly pranked with sweets, Here to his child's mind, Reflected and refracted from the mymiad facets, Must glow The wholeness and the mystery of love. Helen Woodruff Anderson Appointed to General Board of Relief Society Mary Grant Judd. Member, Relief Society General Board ON September 26, 1950, Helen Woodruff Anderson was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society, and was sustained in her new position at the October semi-annual conference of the Church.
Characterized by unusual executive ability, Sister Anderson has made many outstanding contributions to the work of Relief Society. Her earliest experience was gained under the direction of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, when she worked in the general Relief Society offices in charge of employment. She next served for several years as a visiting teacher, then as a member of the stake board in charge of social science, a stake counselor, and, finally, at the time of her call to the general board, she was serving as Relief Society president of Big Cottonwood Stake. She also served with marked success as assistant to Sister Ella P. Bennion, chairman of the Relief Society presidents' department of the Jordan Valley Welfare Region.
There can be no doubt that the women of Big Cottonwood Stake will be loath to part with their president, for she has many outstanding characteristics which have endeared her to them. She possesses true humility, never holding herself aloof from those with whom she asPage
808 HELEN W. ANDERSON sociates. On occasion she exhibits a sparkling sense of humor. In reviewing a successful life, such as Helen Woodruff Anderson's, it is always revealing to trace influences which have contributed to that success.
First of all must be mentioned that she comes of a line of valiant pioneers. Helen's paternal grandfather, President Wilford Woodruff, was known for his great faith and humility. In fact, in the early days of the Church, he was given the significant title of "Wilford, the Faithful." Helen's father, Abraham O. Woodruff, fol- HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERRSON lowing in the footsteps of his noble parent, was a valiant champion of righteousness. He was one of the youngest men ever chosen to be an apostle in our day. Her.
Mother was Helen Winters, a descendant also of faithful and devoted pioneer forebears.
These young parents had fine testimonies of the gospel and a desire to live its principles. However, before they had had the opportunity of directing the lives of their children to any appreciable extent, a great tragedy took both of the parents from their little ones.
While on a Church assignment in the City of Mexico, they both died with the dread disease of small pox. Anna _ Reosenkilde, head nurse for many years of the Primary Children's Hospital, cared for them during the several years when their kindly grandmother, Sister Emma S. Woodruff, made them a part of her household. 809
Following the death of their grandmother, the children were welcomed into the home of their aunt and uncle, President and Sister Heber J. Grant. There can be little doubt that the precepts and example of that kindly home had a marked influence on the character development and ideals of Helen W. Anderson. In May 1925, she married Alex P. Anderson, a former missionary in the New Zealand Mission, and bishop of the Waterloo Ward for thirteen years. The Andersons have one son and four daughters: a married daughter, Bonnie A. Dimmitt; Barbara, who is_ teaching school; Woodruff ("Woodie"), a student at the University of Utah; and Judith and Lynda, in grade school. The Anderson home is one of beauty, comfort, and refinement, where spirituality is combined with unusual friendliness. > Dear Santa: Tlow We Have a Daughter Lael W. Hill Give to David boxing gloves, a bag to punch around— Our David would be champion of the ring. To Danny, give a hammer and a hundred nails to pound, And he will build a boat like anything. But Lizabeth—oh, Lizabeth shall have a golden chain, A fairy doll, a little silver spoon; The boys will thrill to he-man toys and tools of earthy plane, But Lizabeth—give Lizabeth the moon.