[Social Science: Nations Which Rose and Fell by Archibald F. Bennett]

Social Science—The Progress of Man Part I—The Lesson of History Lesson 5—Nations Which Rose and Fell Elder Archibald F. Bennett Text, The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 33 9; 11: Pp. 144147). For Tuesday, March 27, 1951
Objective: To demonstrate that every nation of the past which forsook God and his righteous principles brought war and bloodshed and misery, degradation and death upon its people, and went down in failure or to utter destruction. Mental Degeneracy and Savagery Through Wickedness T was not until man rebelled and rejected the word of God that he fell into mental degeneracy, and lost the power to converse in written language. Man was intelligent in the beginning, and understood many e fundamental truths, but when he refused to receive divine guidance, the Spirit of the Lord withdrew, and then he was left alone and became a savage, for the light in him was turned to darkness. Tubal-cain was an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron long before the flood. 856
Yet, as late as the middle of the nineteenth century, when Speke, Grant, Livingstone, and others explored the wilds of Africa, they found the descendants of Cain living in savagery in the depths of the stone age. Columbus, in 1492, found the stone age flourishing in all its glory here in America. Likewise, our Utah pioneers, in 1847, discovered similar conditions among the natives in the valleys of these mountains. Shall we argue from this that the poor, benighted savage of Africa, and the equally uncultured Indian of America, were slower in their development than the people in Europe and Asia? If we do, our conclusion will be hastily and unwisely reached, without an investigation of all the facts to be considered. The stone age, the copper age, the age of iron, and the age of culture and refinement run in parallel directions at one and the same time, but the age of knowledge and inspiration preceded all. The Rise and Fall of Nations Nations have risen to great power and dominion, only to fall into decay and be superseded by other nations. So it has been from the beginning. Egypt, Assyria, Babylonia, Persia, Greece, and Rome each had its day of greatness, culture, and might, but their glory has departed forever. In some respects, also, much of the culture and knowledge of the arts and sciences perished with them, and cannot be duplicated in this great age of wonderful advancement. The oldest civilizations, according to our historians, were founded in 
Egypt and Mesopotamia. 'The credit given by many historians to the great antiquity of these civilizations cannot be maintained. It was about 2100 B. C.
That the Lord called Abraham out of Chaldea. His descendants, after their emancipation and their settlement in Canaan, dwelt in that land with varying conditions of national success and failure, freedom and bondage, until the year 70 AD., when Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans and the remaining Jews were scattered over the whole earth. It was not long after the dispersion of the Jews that Rome, the last of the great nations of old, also fell into decay. Rome, in the days of our Lord, ruled the greater part of the known world. It was a pagan empire maintaining the worship of many gods. It was the nation "from afar' and of "fierce countenance" spoken of by Moses, which was to bring final punishment upon the Jews before their national existence should come to an end. Rome, like the nations which went before, sank into the depths of sin and depraved wickedness which brought about her political end. All this reminds us of the words of Byron, so aptly expressed: There is the Moral of all.
Human tales; "Tis but the same rehearsal of the past. First Freedom, and then Glory—when that fails, Wealth, vice, corruption—barbarism at last. And History, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page. Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, Canto IV The Favored People of Jared Here in America, thousands _ of years ago, there flourished a civiliza- LESSON DEPARTMENT tion equal, if not superior, to that which could be found in Egypt or Asia at that time.
This ancient people developed the arts and was especially skilled in agriculture to a marked degree. (See Book of Mormon, Ether 10:22-28.) Nevertheless this people forsook the Lord.
They turned from the covenants they had made with him.
Contentions arose, bloody conflicts followed, until they were entirely - destroyed. 'There are in parts of the United States and in other places on this continent some mute evidences of their former glory.
Shortly after the flood the Lord called a small colony of people and commanded them to take their journey into the wilderness away from all other people. 'This occurred at the time of the confounding of languages and the building of the Tower of Babel. The Lord directed them in their journeyings, declaring that he would lead them to a land choice above all other lands.
These people later became known as the people of Jared. 'The prophet-leader of this people is unnamed in the record, but is spoken of as "the brother of Jared." We have been informed that the Prophet Joseph Smith on one occasion said his name was Mahonri Moriancumer, but in the Book of Mormon he is known as the brother of Jared.
This prophet cried unto the Lord in mighty prayer and was answered. The Lord gave this group special commandments to serve him.
They had the plan of salvation and were made acquainted with the history of mankind from the beginning.
They were promised that through their willingness to obey the Lord they should become as great as any 857 other people on the earth. The land assigned to them as an inheritance was choice above all other lands, but the God of that land, who is Jesus Christ, required that the inhabitants, during all time, should serve him. If they would deny him and his power, and turn to evil, when the cup of their iniquity would be full they would be destroyed. The Lord made himself known by personal visitation to their first prophet who was authorized to write a great and most wonderful revelation—the history of man and his destiny from the beginning™ to the end of time. The people of Jared were made acquainted with the power of the Lord and the way of salvation.
They arrived in the promised land in humility.
When they arrived the question of government came up before them in the natural course of events. 'They had been taught in the traditions and customs of the people in the land from whence they came. It was natural, therefore, that they desired to perpetuate the form of government which they had understood before their great journey was undertaken. The story of the beginning of their government is given in the following words: And it came to pass that the people desired of them that they should anoint one of their sons to be a king over them. And now behold, this was grievous unto them. And the brother of Jared said unto them: Surely this thing leadeth into captivity. But Jared said unto his brother: Suffer them that they may have a king. And therefore he said unto them: Choose ye out from among our sons a king, even whom ye will (Book of Mormon, Ether 6:22-24). 858 In this manner their political government began and also their captivity, according to the prediction of the brother of Jared.
There were times of occasional repentance with accompanying peace and happiness which brought prosperity.
When the people began to prosper they forgot the Lord, which is the custom common among all peoples, for it seems that this is a part of human nature.
When sore trouble comes upon them, and they are afflicted, then they selves. It has been so from the beginning.
Even today we will not profit by the experiences of those who have gone before in matters of this kind.
Following the course of all nations which had gone before them, the Jaredites continued in_ their practice of evil until about six hundred years before the birth of Christ.
During their history they had developed into a mighty people.
They had been greatly blessed by the Lord. The principles of the gospel were taught among them, and the power of the Priesthood had been given to them, but they turned to serving Satan and fell into such grievous sins that they were utterly destroyed. The Great Nephite Nation Six hundred years before the birth of Christ another civilization supplanted that one previously mentioned which was destroyed about that time.
This second civilization flourished about one thousand years. 'The people multiplied and spread over the face of the entire continent.
They were highly cultured, and when they hearkened to the voice of their prophets and kept the comhumble them-.  mandments of the Lord, they prospered. The promise had been made from the beginning of the Nephite nation that after Christ should rise from the dead, he would pay a visit to the people on this hemisphere.
After his resurrection the Lord fulfilled this promise.
Following the appearance of the Savior, for a period of two hundred years, the Church of Jesus Christ ruled, and the people lived, as did the people of the city of Enoch, the law of consecration. The historian says of this people during this time: _ And it came to pass that there was no contention among all the people, in all the land; but there were mighty miracles wrought among the disciples of Jesus. And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.
There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God. And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered until an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first generation from Christ had passed away, and there was no contention in all the land (Book of Mormon, 4
Nephi 13-18). Their Blighted Remnant Today For two hundred years the descendants of Lehi lived as one united people. Then the break came and a portion of the people took upon them the name of Lamanites.
LESSON DEPARTMENT In course of time all of the people became very corrupt.
Their rebellion was willful.
They turned away from | the truth and the teachings of their Savior with the full knowledge of their iniquitous course. 'They had reached the stage when they loved wickedness and Satan more than God. The Nephites, who remained true to the cause of Christ longer than their brethren who called themselves Lamanites, eventually became even more wicked than the 'first dissenters from the kingdom of God.
Because the people had filled the cup of their iniquity, the promised destruction came upon them. War and bloodshed continued until some time early in the fifth century of the Christian era, when the Nephites were utterly destroyed.
From that time forth the Lamanites divided into bands and tribes and fought among themselves. When America was discovered intellectual night prevailed through all the land. The people were wandering aimlessly, groping in the darkness of ignorance which they had brought upon themselves. The Lord in his tender mercy has promised that the full radiance of the noonday sun shall again shine upon these benighted peoples, when they have been sufficiently chastised and are ready to return unto him.
Progression and Degeneration Both in Operation The fact that there has been a stone age, a copper age, or any other age or degree of development in the civilization of the world, does not prove that there has been a constant 859 and steady advancement in knowledge and skill from the beginning, whenever that may have been. The evidence in history is sufficiently abundant to show that even where enlightenment has prevailed and men have refused to continue in the light, degenerating influences have set in, and the age of brass, copper, or stone, are just as likely to follow the age of progress and development as to precede it.
Thoughts for Discussion 1.
There are two viewpoints in historical writing which are in sharp opposition. One is that man has gradually and slowly but constantly evolved from prehistoric and ignorant cave man to his present high state of civilization. The other is that the first man was highly intelligent with a perfect system of patriarchal government, but through wickedness came degradation and savagery, and that progression and decline are both constantly in operation.
Trace the story of each of the following nations to see which viewpoint is true: a, Egypt; b. Assyria; c. Babylonia; d. Persia; e. Greece; f. Rome; g. Spain; h. The Jaredites; i. The Nephites. 2. Can you discern evidences of progression and of degeneracy in the nations of today? 3.
Explain and justify if you can the poet Byron's conclusion: "History, with all her volumes vast, Hath but one page." 4.
Comment on this statement: "Man was intelligent in the beginning, and understood many fundamental truths, but when he refused to receive divine guidance the Spirit of the Lord withdrew, and then he was left alone and became a savage, for the light in him was turned to darkness."
References for Pictures of Ancient American Ruins FARNSWORTH, DEWEY AND Epitu, The Americas Before Columbus. National Geographic Magazine, Nov. 1935, PP- 537-579; July 1931, pp. 99- 126; March 1913, pp. 325-361, October 1950, pp. 421-462. 860 1.  lusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship ConDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING (For Music Department at Union Meeting) Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall.
Lesson 6—The Singing Mothers Chorus—lts Purposes and Activities Florence J. Madsen Objective: To afford our sisters the opportunity and joy of singing together and of increasing their knowledge and appreciation of music.
Lesson 7. "Theories Underlying
Singing, Accompanying, and Conducting/'
Objective: To focus attention on the importance of harmonious activity among singers, accompanist, and conductor.
Lesson 8. "New Hymns, Anthems,
Literature About Music, and Other
Essentials."
Objective: To bring to our organizations added interest through new music and a wider knowledge and a deeper appreciation of its value and importance in our lives.
REFERENCES
Required Reference: Cornwall, J.
Spencer, Fundamentals of Conducting,
Deseret Book Company, 50c.