["Poetry," by Evelyn W. Viner,]

Poetry Evelyn Wooster Viner It is the time for me to bake, And I must bring to spice my cake A little rhythm—beat—beat—beat, To rhyme it with the oven's heat. Sweet odors rise—my poetry— That wafts me out on a spicy sea— So while such homely tasks are done The metrical thread is lightly spun. LESSON £= Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 30—"Ministry of the Resurrected Christ on the Western Hemisphere" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 39.) For Tuesday, March 6, 1951
Objective: To convince the careful student that the Lord blesses people wherever they serve him. The Church, with all its blessings, was organized among the people of the Western Continent. OR this lesson we go with the Lord to the American continent where he visited his "other sheep," as he said he would. (Read John 10:16.) Latter-day Saints who have read the Book of Mormon know the history of the ancient inhabitants of America. It should be briefly reviewed in class. The descendants of Lehi had grown to be a mighty people. Though greatly divided and many of them sinful, faith in a Redeemer continued among part of the people. Mighty prophets had foretold of his birth and works in the land of Jerusalem. The Lord's Death Signalized by Great Calamities on the American Continent Samuel, a Lamanite prophet of great faith and ability, prophesied of the signs that would mark the birth of Christ. A new star would appear and there would be two days and a night devoid of darkness. All of these signs were given at the time of the birth of Jesus. Samuel told also of the destruction and great changes which would occur at the time Jesus would be crucified. (Read Helaman 14:14-27.) During the thirty-three years of the Savior's life on earth, many among the Nephites:... Began to forget those signs and wonders which they had heard, and began to be less and less astonished at a sign or a wonder from heaven, insomuch that they began to be hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds, and began to disbelieve all which they had heard and seen (3
Nephi 2:1). During the first week in April, according to our calendar, of the thirty-fourth year after the signs of the birth of Jesus had been given, there arose a great storm on this continent. The face of the land was completely changed by the elevations and depressions of the eatth's surface. Cities were destroyed by earthquakes, fires, and floods. 'The holocaust lasted for three hours; thick darkness enveloped the whole land for a period of almost three days The time corresponded closely to the time the  842 body of Jesus lay in the tomb. In their agony, the people who survived the holocaust cried out: "O that we had repented before this great and terrible day." (Read 3
Nephi 8:5-25.) The destruction had come because of the wickedness of the people. In the thick, impenetrable darkness a voice was heard: "Wo, wo, wo unto this people." The voice continued: Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things. That in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name (3
Nephi 9:15.) The wailing ceased; the peace of the Lord was upon the people. 'The Redeemer then explained to them that the law of Moses had been fulfilled in him and that sacrifices of burnt flesh would no longer be required. 'These words must have reached the very souls of the re pentant:, Behold, for such I have laid down my life, and have taken it up again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth, and be saved (3
Nephi O: 212) « Then for a period of time lamentations were hushed and the people were in "hopeful anticipation of the salvation. Which had been offered." Amid all their sorrow and _ losses, hope came back. The darkness lifted. Jesus had been resurrected. Also many of the righteous dead who had lived upon the Western Continent rose from their graves and appeared as resurrected beings. 
First Visitation of Jesus Christ to the Nephites While his voice had been heard, there was no personal appearance to the Nephites for about six weeks after the events just recorded. At that time, the people were gathered in the land called Bountiful. Naturally, they were humble and anxious for further word from the Messiah. While thus congregated they heard a sound as of a voice from above; but they did not understand until a third time the voice was heard. This time the voice said: "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him" (3
Nephi 11:7). Then the people saw a man, dressed in a white robe, descend and stand among them. Said he: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world; And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning. The people fell on their faces, but the Lord directed them to arise and come forth. He had them feel the prints of the nails in his hands and feet and thrust their hands into his side which had been pierced with the spear. This was no apparition, but the actual corporeal Christ. No wonder they cried out: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" ° And they fell down and worshiped him.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The Lord gave Nephi and eleven others authority to baptize the people after his departure. The class members should read 3
Nephi 11:23-28. It is earnestly recommended that during the course the entire book of 3
Nephi be read and studied. 'Twelve disciples were chosen to lead the Church. They were warned particularly against contention. Jesus then made a wonderful summary of the doctrine of the gospel: Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto you my doctrine. And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth record, of the Father and me, and I bear record that the Father commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me. And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God. And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be damned (3
Nephi 11:31-34). The Lord then gave to the multitude a discourse almost the same as the Sermon on the Mount which he had given to the Jews. 'he most significant changes are due to the events which had intervened between the two discourses. Other changes may be attributed to unauthorized deletions by men. (See I Nephi 13:26.) On the mount he retenaal, to the approaching fulfillment of the Mosaic law; in the land Bountiful the fulfillment was complete. The Beatitudes are even more beautiful. The Lord's prayer and all of the other sublime truths of that greatest of all sermons were recorded by Nephi and preserved for the blessing. Of this generation. 843
During this visit, Jesus explained that he had not told the Jews of the existence of the Nephites. He had referred to them only as the "other sheep." His Father had not at any time commanded him that he should further refer to them nor "... To the other tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land" (3
Nephi 15:15). He was to give all he people of the world a chance and the Holy Ghost would direct his authorized servants to go to the gentiles, so that all who would hear and obey his word would be numbered in the house of Israel. He further stated that he would show himself "unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he hath taken them" (3
Nephi 17:4). He assured them during that first day that he would come again on the morrow, and they were to go into their homes and ponder upon the things which he had said and prepare their minds for the morrow. 'Then he directed them to bring all of their sick, lame, blind, and deaf and those who were crippled; when this was done he healed every one of them. Nephi says: No tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father (3
Nephi 17:17). The joy of the Savior was so full that he wept. His solicitude for little children is stated in 3
Nephi 17:22-24. 844
Jesus had the people sit down. He sent for bread and wine and blessed first the bread. He gave it unto the disciples and then had them pass it to the multitude. There were about twenty-five hundred present, consisting of men, women, and children. The same procedure was followed in administering the wine. The bread was given as a sacred emblem of his body and the wine in token of his blood that had been shed for mankind. His instructions to them concerning the sacrament have been practically repeated to us in this day. While it was to be given only to those who were worthy, those who were unworthy were not to be cast out if they would repent and be baptized. His instructions concerning prayer should be read (3
Nephi 18:19-23). The Lord then conferred special authority on the twelve disciples with power to confer the Holy Ghost on all repentant believers who were baptized. When he had finished the day's work, he ascended into heaven. Christ's Second Visitation to the Nephites Working through the night, messengers had notified great multitudes that Jesus would come on the morrow. So great was the number of people that assembled that the disciples divided them into twelve separate groups. They went down to the water's edge and Nephi first was baptized; then he baptized the eleven other disciples. When they came out of the water "they were filled with the Holy Ghost, and with fire." (Read 3
Nephi 19:10-13 and also note 3 on page 744 of text. )  As noted above, when Jesus appeared the second time, ministering angels came with him. He instructed his chosen disciples and the multitude to kneel in prayer "and they prayed unto Jesus, calling him their Lord and their God." Jesus separated himself by a little space and in humble attitude prayed to his Father. When he returned to them his disciples were still fervently praying. A second and third time Jesus retired and prayed unto the Father. While the multitude understood the meaning of his prayer the scriptures state that "tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither can be written by man the words which he prayed." (Read 3
Nephi 19:16-34.) The Lord rejoiced exceedingly because of the faith of the people. He administered the sacrament again, although the people had not provided bread or wine. He spoke to the people at length about Israel of whom they were a part.. He told them that their descendants would dwindle in unbelief. However, he held out the promise: that Israel would be gathered and finally come back to the true God. The gentiles would first become a great nation on the Western Continent. Christ's Visitation to His Chosen Twelve Among the Nephites The twelve disciples were faithful in their ministry after the Lord departed and the Church prospered in the land. 'There was some contention as to-the name of the Church and Jesus appeared unto the disciples after they had prayed and fasted. He asked of them: LESSON DEPARTMENT "What will ye that I shall give unto you?" They answered: Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are disputations among the people concerning this matter. The class members should read the Lord's reply. (Read 3
Nephi 27:4-12.) It should be a great satisfaction to members of the Church that it bears the name of its head— - Jesus Christ. During his visit to the twelve disciples, the Savior took occasion to repeat many of the things he had expounded before the multitude. He told them to keep a record of his teachings, and explained that records are kept in heaven. How much we owe to those who made a record of his divine directions! The Three Nephites In appreciation of the faith and devotion of those twelve good men, the Lord spoke unto each one of them, asking: 'What is it that ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father?" (See Nephi 28:1-12.) Nine of them requested that they might continue in their ministry until they had reached a goodly age and then go to the Lord in his kingdom. He promised them that after they were seventy and two years old that they would come and find rest in the Lord's kingdom. He then turned to the other three: And he said unto them: Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in my minis- 845 try, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of me. Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death; but ye shall live to behold all things of the Father unto the children of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled according to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my glory with the powers of heaven. And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in my glory ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye from mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be blessed in the kingdom of my Father (3
Nephi 28:6-8). A change was wrought in the bodies of these three and they are in the flesh now, working somewhere in the cause of their Master. They ministered among the people for three hundred years and_possibly longer and then, because of persecution and the wickedness of the people, they were withdrawn and thereafter manifested themselves only to a righteous few. Mormon and Moroni both were ministered to by them. Growth of the Church Followed by the Apostasy of the Nephite Nation The history of the people in the land of Nephi for about one hundred seventy years is extremely interesting. The Church of Jesus Christ has within it the inherent power to make its members completely happy. Speaking to the people in the land of Nephi, the prophet Nephi said: And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. (Read 4
Nephi 1:15-16.) The gospel works if we will let it work. 846
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What remarkable prophecies were made by Samuel, the Lamanite prophet? Tell of their fulfillment. 2. Describe the events which occurred on the Western Continent at the time of the crucifixion of the Savior. 3. What ordinance of the gospel was introduced by Jesus when he visited the 
Nephites? Tell how it was done. 4. How many visits were made by the Savior to the Nephites? Tell what instructions were given during each visit. References in the Gospels Matt. 3:17; 5; 6; 7; 19:28; 27:52, 53. Mark 1:11; 16:15, 16. Luke 9:35; 22:30. John 10:16; 12:48. (siting Seacher ITlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 14—"A New Commandment | Give Unto You, That Ye Love One Another; As | Have Loved You, That Ye Also Love One Another" © (John 13:34). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, March 6, 1951
Objective: gives us to follow. N what sense, we might enquire, was the injunction of Christ to his disciples to love one another a new commandment?
Certainly the world had known love before. 'The love of parent for child, the love of friend for friend, are as old as mankind. As early as the time of the children of Israel, the Lord, speaking through their leader Moses, had admonished them, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" (Lev. 19:18), and again, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might" (Deut. 6:5). It was in his concept of love and its all-inclusiveness that the Christ went far beyond anything that had been previously taught.
Where earlier teachers had sought to regulate the lives of their followers with innumerable rules and _ exactions, To show the all-inclusiveness of the pattern of love which Christ the Divine Master seemed to say: I will show you a more simple way. If you but love, you will unconsciously fulfill the whole law. His plan was to purify our hearts and then to leave love to direct our footsteps. He gave us the rule of the second mile. "Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Matt. 5:41). "And him that taketh away thy cloke forbid not to take thy coat also" (Luke 6:29). The apostle Paul, an ardent advocate of the Savior's teachings, in the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians has given us an inspired definition of what constitutes real love.
What a set-back to egotism, pride, and _ self-righteousness _ his words convey. Are you an eloquent speaker with knowledge of worldly things? He asks. Do you have faith LESSON DEPARTMENT to perform miracles? Are you a philanthropist?
Would you give your life for your religious convictions? Love (the pure love of Christ) so Paul declares, is greater than any of these.
Love is patient, kind, and humble.
Love is generous, courteous, and happy in the success of others. 847 In this world of change, and sometimes of disillusionment, one verity remains, for "love never faileth." Let us carefully consider this divine attribute of the Savior and his admonition, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another." Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Choosing and Arranging Furniture Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 13, 1951 COMFORT, livability, and a feeling of hospitality in a home, to a large measure, depend upon the choice and arrangement of furniture. In choosing furniture, family needs, individuality, good taste, and -the architectural characteristics of the room should be given careful consideration.
These guides, if faithfully followed, will lead the homemaker to select individual pieces which harmonize with one another, fit properly into the room's decorative scheme, and give the home an individuality and character of its own. The furnishing of a livable home does not necessarily require the expenditure of large sums of money.
Thoughtful planning and ingenuity in the use and alteration, if necessary, of those items of furniture already in the home, together with the addition of perhaps a few carefully selected new pieces, is often all that is required to give a home a "new furnished look." Far too frequently purchases of furniture are made because of a salesman's pressure or because the argument is given that it is in high style, or is being bought by Mrs. So and So. 'This is of course a serious mistake in buying.
Before any purchase is made, the home and the family's specific needs should be studied carefully.
Only furniture which fills the needs of the family and fits the decorative scheme of the home should be purchased.
Often it will be found that an old chest or table which is already in the home can be sanded down, the ornamentation removed, and painted or lacquered to add a new note of color and interest. If new pieces of furniture are needed, they should be bought preferably one at a time. 'The policy of buying less than is needed, rather than over-buying is not only safer and more economical, but will be more fun and will extend the re- 

848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 juvenation of the home over a longer period of time. In the purchase of new furniture it is well to keep the following guides in mind: First, if a home is to be welldecorated, the scale or size of the furniture is important. Large, oversized furniture is not appropriate in a small room. It will give the room a small cramped feeling. On the other hand, small, spindly pieces look out of place in a large room. In selecting furniture, remember that most pieces look smaller in the store than they will look in a home. Second, in the selection of new furniture, it is generally wise to choose individual pieces rather than suites. 'This applies particularly to the purchase of sofas and chairs. A living room will have more character and perform its function better if the sofa and chairs are chosen individually in the style and size which fit best the particular decorating scheme. 'This does not mean that twin sets of tables, chairs, and lamps should not be used. 'These identical pieces can be used effectively in decorating. If twin furniture items are used in the home, they should be used as twins, emphasizing their sameness. 'T'win chairs should have the same upholstery and should be used in the same furniture grouping. 'I'win lamps should be placed on identical tables. Third, mix furniture woods and styles wisely.
Different colored woods and various periods and styles of furniture can be used in the same room. In fact, the well-decorated contemporary home often combines various periods of furniture as long as harmony, scale, and the family's individual needs and preferences are used as guides.
This modern freedom from period authenticity enables the homemaker, as never before, to express her individuality and good taste. However, in mixing woods and styles of furniture, the elements of formality or informality should be constantly kept in mind. For example, formal type French furniture would not fit in with informal Early American styles. On the other hand, country style French Provincial, Early American, and simple Modern can be effectively combined to create a friendly hospitable room.
Furniture can be arranged for comfortable living and for -sociable hospitality if four simple guides are followed. First, arrange furniture. For the family's maximum comfort and convenience.
Modern decoration stresses placing furniture so as to utilize to best advantage all room space, corners, windows, and other areas for convenient living. No longer is furniture lined up against the walls in soldier-like fashion, but is arranged in groupings throughout the room to give proper consideration to the family's needs for conversation, relaxation, reading, enjoyment of music, radio, and television. A room will be neither attractive nor inviting to social conversation if seating facilities are scattered around it with no evidence of planned grouping. To invite pleasant sociability, make sure to have at least one furniture group where four or more people can engage in easy conversation without moving heavy chairs.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Second, every well-decorated room must have a focal point or center of interest. Otherwise, the room is confusing and unimpressive. Good room decoration begins at a focal point which is sufficiently dramatic to attract attention. A small room will have only one important furniture grouping which will of itself be the center point of interest. A larger room may have two or more groupings, but _ one should always dominate in color, line, and design. A room's strongest color accent should be concentrated at this point of interest. Possible centers of interest in a room, around which can be built a furniture grouping are a fireplace, a bay or picture window, or even a substantial wall area. A wall area may be made a center of interest through a sofa and chair grouping, together with an appropriate mirror or a well-chosen picture or pictures. Third, balance, formal or informal, is one of the most important elements in furniture arrangement. To be properly balanced, a room, when viewed from any angle, must give a feeling of stability and unity. Formal, or even balance, is defined as "equal shapes equally distant from a center." 'This can be created in a furniture grouping by using identical chairs, tables, lamps, and the like. Formal balance gives a room a dignified, quiet, steady feeling. Most rooms look best if at least two walls have this type of treatment. Informal, or uneven balance, ls the arrangement of unequal shapes at varied distances from a center. 849
This can be achieved by placing two chairs, a table and a lamp opposite a sofa. Informal balance is more lively and, when done well, has more interest. To make a room interesting and attractive, a combination of both types of balance should be used. Too much even balance produces a feeling of monotony. 'Too much uneven balance may create a feeling of restlessness and confusion. In arranging furniture for proper balance, be sure important pieces such as sofas, desks, radios, beds pianos, and chests are placed parallel to the wall and not cater-cornered. Large furniture pieces placed at diagonal angles tend to make a circle out of a room. Such an arrangement is confusing and makes a room look smaller. Fourth, in arranging furniture, natural traffic lanes should be provided for. Ample space should be allowed for doors to open and for people to get from one place to another in the room. Sufficient space should be left around each grouping to give a feeling of roominess. Furthermore, every space in the room does not have to be filled. Modern decorating stresses spaciousness and suggests that a room have a little less furniture than it needs rather than too much. To repeat, the selection and arrangement of furniture is of paramount importance in attractive and comfortable home decorating. 'The homemaker who follows a_ plan based upon the fundamentals described in this lesson can do much to make sure that her home is furnished with the maximum good taste and economy. 850
Discussion Points 1.
Discuss the advantages of buying individual pieces rather than suites of furniture. 2.
Have members of the class present examples of old furniture pieces which have been made over and rejuvenated. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 3.
Illustrate with magazine picture cutouts each of the three basic guides of furniture selection.
Illustrate in the same way three basic guides of furniture arrangement. 5- Illustrate how the scale drawing of a room can be used to help in furniture arrangement. Sit cralee Ae Literature of England Lesson 14—Alexander Pope Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 20, 1951 A Perry Picture ALEXANDER POPE N the history of English literature few reputations have fluctuated more widely than Alexander Pope's.
From the age of twenty-five he was regarded by his own age as the Prince of English Poets, yet before his death in 1744 he engaged, and » was engaged in more literary and personal controversy than any other English writer.
During most of the two hundred years since his death his personal weaknesses have been blown so large as to obscure the considerable merits of both the man and his writings, yet next to Shakespeare he is probably quoted more than any other Englishman. 'Too often his stunted, misshapen body has had pictured as its counterpart a misshapen mind, aptly summarized by his enemies in the phrase, "the wicked wasp of Twickenham" (Twickenham, his estate on the Thames). Far too many critics and guardians of our literary heritage have yielded to the temptation to perpetuate this nineteenth-century emphasis on Pope, without themselves going to his works and evaluating them on their merits.
Granting that in his later satires Pope was_ personally spiteful, he was many other things as well.
Here as always, two wrongs do not make a right, and to deny his achievements by overemphasizing his shortcomings is to deny one LESSON DEPARTMENT of his most famous lines, which admittedly Pope did not practice, To err is human, to forgive, divine. In poetry, as in life, we find that which we seek.
Admitting his weaknesses, let us then search for compensating virtues which, in his own specialized area of literature, have never been rivalled, and which justify our mature attention. It is ironical, and not a little grim, that in 1688, the year of Pope's birth, the pro-Catholic King Charles II was forced from the throne by a bloodless revolution and replaced by William and Mary, whose eminent recommendation was_ their Protestant religious beliefs. Because Pope's father was a Catholic, he was taxed twice as much in his wholesale drapery business as were other, Englishmen, while young Alexander, along with all other Catholic youths, was barred from the universities as well as from all participation in politics.
While in maturity Pope was never a devout Catholic, his devotion to his staunch Catholic mother was one of the driving forces of his life.
Never did his family religion add to his popularity. When Pope was born, both his parents were past forty-five years of age.
From birth he had been small, sickly, and sensitive. A severe illness in his twelfth year so impaired his health that he was rarely free from physical pain during his life.
Scarcely more than four feet high, stooped, twisted with pain, Pope did not particularly appeal to the eye; instead, it was his luminous eyes that appealed, and his beautiful voice and sparkling wit. Physically 851 handicapped as he was, he relied on his skillful conversation and_ his considerable social graces to draw hosts of friends to him.
When he wrote, "Envy must own, I live among the great," he referred not only to the most famous artists, writers, and musicians, but to dukes, duchesses, counts, and ministers who felt honored to be asked to Twickenham, a gathering place for the great which was immortalized by those who enjoyed themselves there. 'T'hus is dispelled the myth that a satirist must first of all be bitter and mean in his personal life.
Friends can never be bought, and, with the exception of Addison, if Pope's enemies had even begun to approach the prominence and permanent achievement attained by his friends, we might then be more willing to blame than to praise.
Outwardly little happened in Pope's life.
Born in London, he was tutored, but largely self-educated, at home. At the retirement of his father the family moved to nearby Cheswick. Not long after his father's death he and his mother established themselves at 'T'wickenham, which he made famous not only for its hospitality but also for its beautiful formal gardens.
Pope spent extended visits with his distinguished friends, even as he entertained them in turn.
While he enjoyed a life-long friendship with a neighbor, Miss Martha Blount, he never married. In the realms of the mind, however, it was different.
Soon after recovering from his great illness at age twelve, Pope dedicated his life to achieving fame and fortune 852 through poetry. He was industrious in his self-training, and by the time he was seventeen he was accepted as a prodigy among the most brilliant of the coffee-house wits. At twenty-three he published "Essay on Criticism" (text, page 975), the first of three poems which established his literary reputation. In 1712, the following year, he wrote "The Rape of the Lock" (text, page 983), his most whimsically delightful work.
This was soon followed by "Windsor Forest," which, like his earlier works, was favorably received.
Soon he announced his plan to translate Homer's Iliad into heroic couplets and sell copies by subscription to wealthy patrons of culture.
During the next nine years he worked on translations of Homer. So closely had he fulfilled the desires of his contemporaries that from these translations he became independently wealthy, the first English poet to become self-sustaining; of this fact Pope was always most proud. In 1728 appeared his "Dunciad," a brilliant satire on dullness in letters and scholarship, in which he attacks fellow-writers for their emptiness and pride.
Then folowed several satires, including the autobiographical "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" (text, page 1004), in which he justifies his use of satire. "Essay on Man" (text, page 995), his most profound, and one of his most-quoted works, appeared in 1733-4. The Neo-Classical Age was at its height during the productive years of Pope. Reason, nature, classicism, and correctness were the 'penetration, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 guiding principles of the cultivated classes; we find them all throughout Pope's work, but particularly emphasized in his "Essay on Criticism" (text, page 975), written at the beginning of his career to state the literary techniques and goals which he believed should be emulated.
While the ideas herein are not original, Pope has combined them into a fresh pattern and into finished, pomted heroic couplets which first brought him fame as a great technician in English poetry. In these qualities he has never been exceled. Always Po pe was searching for precisely the proper word to express the exact shade of meaning he wished to convey; that he was eminently successful 'is to be seen in such well-known lines as the following, which have the direct the sharp brilliance which is Pope's trade mark: A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring: There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely sobers us again. (II:215-218, text, page 978) True wit is nature to advantage dressed, What oft was thought, but ne'er so well expressed. (II:297-298, text, page 979) Words are like leaves; and where cy most abound, Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found. (II: 309-311, text, page 979) But true expression, like the unchanging sun, | Clears and improves whate'er it shines upon, It gilds all objects, but it alters none. (II:315-317, text, page 979) LESSON DEPARTMENT Regard not then if wit be old or new, But blame the false, and value still the true. (II:406-407, text, page 981) We think our fathers fools, so wise we grow; Our wiser sons, no doubt, will think us so. (II:438-439, text, page 981) Be thou the first true merit to defend, His praise is lost, who stays till all commend. (11:474-475, text, page 982) Good-nature and good-sense must ever join; To err is human, to forgive, divine. (II:524-525, text, page 982) All seems infected that the infected spy, As all looks yellow to the jaundiced eye. (lI:558-559, text, page 983) The couplets quoted below might well have been written for those who find the couplet dull. How skillfully he has done what he suggests: Let the sound of the words echo the sense.
Here again we must remember that the couplets should not be read by a metronome nor in a sing-song manner. Instead, the speed, the volume, the timbre of voice should be varied as the sense demands.
What could be more langorous than the second line of this couplet? It demands a slow, emphasized reading: A needless Alexandrine ends the song. That, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length along. (lI:356-357, text, page 980) Note how exactiy "sound echoes sense' in the following: Soft is the strain when Zephyr gently blows, And the smooth stream in smoother numbers flows; 853
But when loud surges lash the sounding shore, The hoarse, rough verse should like the torrent roar: When Ajax strives some rock's vast weight to throw, The line too labors, and the words move slow; (lI:366-371, text, page 980) In lines 189-200, amid Pope's usual condensed brilliance, we find a cleanness and an elevated tone which presents Pope at his best. According to Samuel Johnson, whose critical insight is often to be trusted, lines 225-232 comprise one of the best similies in the language. | The theme of this poem is to achieve correctness by following nature, or the ancient writers, since "Nature and Homer lare] the same." Thus he states his own critical standards, which he followed so successfully as to please a most critical, classical-loving England. Of basic importance to students of the eighteenth century is "The Essay on Man" (text, page 995), a patchwork of philosophic doctrines characteristic of his age. Of the many brilliant statements of the beliefs of his day the following are examples: All are but parts of one stupendous whole Whose body Nature is, and God the soul. (I:267-268, text, page 999) One truth is clear, W hatever is, is night., (I:294, text, page 999) Know then thyself, presume not God to scan, The proper study of mankind is man. (II:1-2, text, page 999 ) [Man]... The Glory, jest, and riddle of the world! (11:18, text, page 999) 854
Yet it also contains the familiar Hope springs eternal in the human breast: Man never is, but always to be blest... (I:95-96, text, page 996) Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then, pity, then embrace. (V:217-220, text, page 1002) The progressive pattern of the poem's reasoning is difficult if not impossible to follow, but many of the passages -are brilliantly stated, nonetheless. The "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot," from Pope's first statement to his servant Shut, shut the door, good John! (fatigued, I said), Tie up the knocker, say I'm sick, I'm dead (text, page 1005) to the end, is intensely autobiographical. Plagued by would-be writers, he is Seized and tied down to judge, how wretched I! Who can't be silent, and who will not lie. (33-34, text, page 1005) Resentful that he is bothered by fools and dunces who must be told that they have no talent, he reassures the good writer, since A lash like mine no honest man shall dread. (303, text, page 1010) While herein he names names, and hurls insults, and is superior, we can also see his satirical brilliance, his courage, his wit, and above all his conviction that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 high standards of the literary craft must be upheld and never allowed to be trampled underfoot by those who cannot see what they do. Most enjoyable of all Pope's poems, and the highest triumph of his imagination, is "The Rape of the Lock" (text, page 983). Its form has been labeled "mock-epic," yet rather than mock the great epical style which Pope coveted, and realized that he did not possess, this poem might well be an affectionate tribute to the method of Homer and Virgil. It does, however, mock the light frivolities of "high society" in pictures and words that yield a pure, untrammeled delight. 'The poem is based on an actual happening, in which Lord Petre, without her permission, cut off a lock of Miss Arabella Fermor's hair. The two families quarreled over the incident, and Pope wrote the poem to humor them into a reconciliation. The sylphs are nothing less than charming in_ their playful seriousness, while Pope's skill at making Belinda's dressing table into an altar, the mock seriousness of the game of cards, the final triumphant stealing of the lock, and his final reconcilement of Belinda by pointing out that her lock is gone, yes, but only to have become immortal—all show ability with words and with organization of the whole. Reading aloud select portions of this work should prove to be a pleasant experience for everyone concerned. In his weakness, as in his strength, Pope is the accurate, sensitive representative of the age in which he lived. In a day when society was proud. Pope was exceedingly so.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Just as the heart of Neo-Classicism was to be found in reason, nature, and correctness, so these qualities dominated Pope's writing. To a public which distrusted sentiment and enthusiasm, Pope preached in his intellectualized poetry, and satirized the pettiness of his society. He attacked viciously and personally his literary and political enemies, sometimes almost entirely unprovoked, but more often only after a _ period of years, during which as many as fifty blasts were leveled against him and his religion, his personal deformity, his lack of scholastic background, his love of fame, and his touchiness. Pope defended himself magnificently, the brilliance of his replies vanquishing and transcending all personal opposition, and finally attaining the higher level 855 of defending literary excellence against cheapness and dullness. Pope was not a great man in his personal life. But, as a craftsman in English poetry, he remains the consummate artist. For power over language, for skill in manipulating the metrical line to fit his needs, for music and wit and brilliance and finish, Pope remains supreme. Questions for Discussion 1. Why did Pope's religion make his life more difficult? 2. Why is it important that we know of Pope's many illustrious and sincere friends? 3. Can we see any justifications in Pope's satires? 4. What is the great source of enjoyment in "The Rape of the Lock'? 5- Discuss principles of Neo-Classicism in Pope's writings (See text, page 741).